{"id": "22257259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22257259", "title": "Agreement on Humane Trapping Standards", "text": "Agreement on Humane Trapping Standards\n\nThe Agreement on International Humane Trapping Standards (AIHTS) establishes the required standards for approval and certification of animal trapping devices.\n\nIn 1991, following extensive pressure from the anti-fur lobby, the European Union (EU) passed Regulation 3254/91, which bans the import of wild fur products derived from 13 species into the EU from any country, unless the use of the leghold trap is prohibited in said country, or trapping methods used in that country meet internationally agreed humane trapping standards. EU Regulation 3254/91 remains in place in the EU today .\n\nFollowing several years of negotiations, the EU agreed to two humane trapping agreements in 1997. The Agreement on International Humane Trapping Standards (AIHTS) was reached with the EU, Canada and Russia;\n\nUnder these agreements, all traps must be tested against the standards set out in the AIHTS and, if they conform, must be certified by a designated competent authority. If they fail to meet the Standards, they must be replaced with traps that do.\nThe AIHTS was signed by Canada and the EU in December 1997 and by the Russian Federation in April 1998. A separate bilateral agreement with equivalent standards was signed between the US and Europe in 1998. Both agreements are legally binding on all signatories.\nThe Russian parliament ratified the AIHTS for implementation on July 22, 2008. The European Parliament, as of 2008, has yet to approve a Directive to implement the Agreement within its member countries. Canada has been implementing the AIHTS on a bilateral basis (with the EU), in good faith, since the Canadian government ratified it in 1999. The USA has been progressing on implementing its best management practices under its bilateral EU agreement.\n\nUnder the AIHTS, the parties (currently, Canada, EU and Russia) guarantee not to impose trade restrictions on fur products from listed species from other signatory countries. The Agreement establishes procedures for settling disagreements and does not affect the right to resort to WTO (World Trade Organization). The Agreement on International Humane Trapping Standards applies to listed species (total of 19) regardless of the reason for trapping, including: \nThe AIHTS establishes criteria for rating traps by species and by method of use. Killing traps are rated according to the time to loss of consciousness. Restraining traps are rated according to injuries indicative of poor welfare. Ratings form part of the trap approval process.\n\nThe AIHTS establishes approval and certification standards for all types of traps and requires that traps be certified as meeting the AIHTS, initially by fall 2007. The Agreement prohibits the use of restraining and killing traps that are not certified in accordance with the Standards. However, it does not prevent individuals from constructing and using traps that comply with designs approved by the competent authorities. (Competent authorities are legal bodies that regulate trapping, including governments, government mandated agencies and those Aboriginal groups with authority to regulate wildlife management activities.) Traps not meeting the Agreement Standards must be phased out by the signatories. If there are no traps certified for a particular species, all traps legal for use for that species can continue to be used until certified traps become available and provided research continues to search for traps that meet the Agreement Standards.\n\nUnder the Agreement, parties are instructed to use their best efforts to ensure appropriate processes are in place for permitting the use of traps and for enforcing trap legislation within their jurisdiction. It is also recommended that parties have in place trapper training in humane devices/methods. The Agreement also advocates incorporating ISO testing procedures into the trap certification process.\n\nParties of the AIHTS (Canada, Russian Federation and EU) are required to meet on an ongoing basis. Delegates to these meetings make up the Joint Management Committee (JMC), established under the terms of the AIHTS to administer the Agreement. The US is a permanent observer on the JMC.\n\n\nAs the Agreement on International Humane Trapping Standards is a dynamic treaty, it provides opportunity for continuing the improvement of animal welfare related to trapping as new technology and scientific knowledge emerges\nIn EU Regulation 3254/91, 12 North America and one Russian furbearer species were listed. \nUnder the AIHTS, six additional European species were added.\nThe Standards apply to the following 19 species:\n\nAdditional species, regardless of the reason for trapping them, may be included in the future as appropriate. All signatory parties must agree to any changes made to the species list.\n\nAIHTS requirements for certification in accordance with the Standards do not apply to traps individually constructed by trappers.\n\nDefinition: Traps designed and set with the intention of killing a trapped animal of the target species. May include restraining traps set as killing traps when used in water.\n\nDefinition: Traps designed and set to restrain a target animal's movements. For use on land only. This includes all traps such as the foot snare, the padded foothold trap and any other limb restraining traps that are not \"conventional steel-jawed leghold restraining traps\". It also applies to manufactured live capture cages and boxes.\n\nSince autumn 2007, only certified traps are legally permitted for trapping the species listed in the Agreement on International Humane Trapping Standards. Local or regional jurisdictions may have additional regulatory requirements exceeding the AIHTS.\nRestraining Traps - The use, on land, of conventional steel-jaw leghold restraining traps for the following species is now prohibited:\n\nOther restraining traps, such as laminated, padded, offset, foot snares and cage traps must meet the requirements of the AIHTS and be certified initially by 2007. If research has not identified certifiable traps for use on a particular species by 2007, the AIHTS has a provision for continued use of current traps while research continues. Research is ongoing among all four countries.\nTrap Certification – The certification process for both restraining and killing traps began in 2002. Criteria for certification are: \nAs required under the Agreement, six provisional Joint Management Committee meetings have been held to date, in Edmonton, Alberta (2000), Brussels, Belgium (2002), St. Petersburg, Russia (2003), New York City, USA (2004), Quebec City, Canada (2005) and Brussels, Belgium(2008).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43209842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43209842", "title": "Amasya trials", "text": "Amasya trials\n\nThe Amasya trials in 1921, were special ad hoc trials, organized by the Turkish National Movement, with the purpose to kill en masse the Greek representatives of Pontus region under a legal pretext. They occurred in Amasya, modern Turkey, during the final stage of the Pontic Greek genocide. The total number of the executed individuals is estimated to be ca. 400-450, among them 155 prominent Pontic Greeks.\n\nThe Ottoman genocide policy against the Pontic Greek populations was initiated after the outbreak of World War I (1914), mostly through deportation and forced death marches. This policy of extermination was intensified, after accusations that the Pontic Greek communities supported the Russian army. As a result, the Ottoman authorities deported thousands of local Greeks to the interior of Anatolia. The Ottoman genocide policy took a more violent form in 1917, when Greece entered World War I. A large number of the deported populations died from disease, exhaustion and epidemics during death marches. Those who managed to survive the marches were either raped, subject to forced islamization or murdered. Meanwhile, Turkish irregular band (cete) leaders, like Topal Osman, notorious from his role in the Armenian Genocide, were dispatched against the Greeks of Samsun province in 1916.\n\nThe same policy continued after the outbreak of the Greco-Turkish War (1919-1922), where groups of irregular Turkish bands acted with the support of the Turkish nationalists of Mustafa Kemal and committed massacres in the Pontus region in 1920-1921.\n\nThe Turkish nationalists' aim was to conduct summarily trials and executions of the Pontic Greek elite. Thus they would be able to exterminate the main representatives of the Greek community of the Black Sea coastal area under a legal pretext, as part of the still active genocide policy. These \"Independence tribunals\" were conducted in Amasya, a town in the interior of Anatolia, far from any foreign consulate, in order to avoid the presence of western representatives, since this was considered an \"inner case\".\n\nFrom December 1920 the Turkish nationalists started to arrest en masse various Greek representatives from all parts of the Pontus region and imprisoned them in Amasya. The trials begun in the end of August 1921, however, no concrete evidence was ever found to link the accused with anti-Turkish activity. There were only abstract claims that some of them supported the Russian army during World War I. In the same fashion, the Turkish nationalists felt offended when they realised after investigation that the jerseys of the local Greek soccer team \"Pontus Metzifon\" displayed the colors of the Greek flag (blue and white).\n\nThe trials were presided by Emin Bey Gevecioğlu, solicitor from nearby Samsun. After summary proceedings, where insults and berating comments were shouted at the accused persons by the judge, the verdict for the vast majority of them was death, with the pretext that they organized the independence of Pontus. The sentences were handed down immediately.\n\nFrom August 20 to September 21, 1921, 177 Greeks of the Pontus region were hanged as a result of these proceedings. The exact total number of those executed by the Amasya trials is unknown, while estimations vary from 400 to 450 persons. On 25 September 1921, a local Turkish newspaper, published a list of 155 prominent Pontic Greeks who were hanged in the central square of Amasya.\n\nThose sentenced to death were politicians, businessmen, journalists and religious figures of the local Greek community. Among them was the local assistant bishop of Amasya, Euthemios Zelon, who died in prison from typhus. Nevertheless, the court sentenced him to death posthumously and his dead body was hanged in the central square of the town together with the others.\n\nThe trials and the executions in Amasya by the Turkish movement of Mustafa Kemal succeeded in the extermination of the Pontic Greek elite under a legal pretext, while the total death toll of the Pontic Greek community, as a result of the Ottoman and Turkish policies, from 1915 to 1923, is estimated from 353,000 to 360,000.\n\nReactions for the atrocities committed occurred both inside and outside Turkey. The hanging of Matthaios Kofidis in Amasya, former member of the Ottoman parliament, who opposed any form of armed resistance movement against the Turkish authorities, caused anger even among the Muslim population of Trebizond, who refused to collaborate with the Turkish nationalists, thus saving the lives of several local Greeks.\n\nProtests were reported in Greece and the United Kingdom. Moreover, countries which had been at that time in alliance with the Turkish nationalists, like France and Italy, also condemned the atrocities. The issue of the extermination of the Pontic Greek population was also raised in the United States Congress in December 22, 1921 by senator William H. King.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5427457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5427457", "title": "Attorney-General's Department (Australia)", "text": "Attorney-General's Department (Australia)\n\nThe Attorney-General's Department is a department of the federal government of Australia responsible for law and justice.\n\nThe head of the department is the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department, currently Chris Moraitis , who reports to the Attorney-General of Australia, currently The Hon. Christian Porter MP.\n\nThe Attorney-General's Department is one of seven original Commonwealth Departments of state, commencing with the Commonwealth of Australia on 1 January 1901. It is one of only three departments, along with Defence and Treasury, to have operated continuously under their original name and charter since Federation.\n\nThe department is organised into four groups, each headed by a Deputy Secretary. These Deputy Secretaries report to the Secretary who co-ordinates and devises departmental structure and policy.\n\nThese four groups are:\n\nThe Attorney-General's Department is located at the Robert Garran Offices, 3-5 National Circuit, Barton in the Australian Capital Territory.\n\nOn the recommendation of the Prime Minister, the Governor-General has appointed the following individuals as Secretary of the department:\n\nThe mission of the department is \"achieving a just and secure society\". In pursuing this mission, the department works towards achieving *A just and secure society through the maintenance and improvement of Australia’s law and justice framework and its national security and emergency management system\".\n\nThe Administrative Arrangements Order made on 19 April 2018 details the following responsibilities to the Department:\n\n"}
{"id": "21311934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21311934", "title": "Castillo v. Case Farms of Ohio", "text": "Castillo v. Case Farms of Ohio\n\nCastillo v. Case Farms of Ohio, 96 F Supp. 2d 578, is a case involving poor working conditions for migratory workers. It established that an principal / agent relationship existed between Case Farms and America's Tempcorps (ATC) that allowed Case Farms to be liable for its agent's actions.\n\nMigrant farm workers were recruited in Texas by America's Tempcorps to work in Case Farm's Ohio-based chicken processing plant. They were given a bus ticket and $20 for three days of food. Upon arriving they found themselves living in conditions called \"distressing and deplorable\" by the court. The employees were packed in to unfurnished rooms infested with cockroaches and rats. The workers slept on the floor and were transported in an overcrowded van.\n\nThe working conditions were largely not refuted. At issue was 1) whether or not American's Tempcorps (ATC) was an agent of Case Farms, and 2) if agency existed, whether that agency make Case Farms liable for ATC’s actions.\n\nThe plaintiffs alleged:\n\nCastillo argued that agency relationship existed between ATC and Case Farms, and the scope of that relationship included both the express authority to recruit and hire people to work at Case Farms’ plant, and the implied authority to do all things proper, usual and necessary to exercise that authority.\n\nCase Farms argued, to the extent that an agency relationship existed, the scope of that agency was limited solely to informing recruits about the availability of work at Case Farms’ processing plant. They also contended that the workers recruited by ATC were not full-fledged Case Farms workers (despite the fact that the work, pay rates, and supervision of these workers were essentially identical to Case Farms employees.)\n\n1) A principal may be liable for the acts of a purported agent based on an actual agency relationship created by the principal’s express or implied delegation of authority to the agent.\n\n2) A principal is liable only if those actions are taken in the scope of the agent’s employment.\nExpress actual authority exists “where the principal has made it clear to the agent that he wants the act under scrutiny to be done.”\n\n3) Giving an agent express authority to undertake a certain act also includes the implied authority to do all things proper, usual, and necessary to exercise that express authority.\n\nThe evidence at trial supported the contention that Case Farms expressly authorized ATC to recruit and hire people to work at Case Farms’ Ohio plant, and that such an express agency existed with the scope of recruiting and hiring migrant workers.\nThe evidence also supported the contention that the housing and transportation activities were well within the agents implied authority—based on Case Farms’ unique recruiting challenges, the great distances the migrant workers sought were required to travel, and Case Farms outsourcing of this difficult recruiting task to ATC.\n\nAmerica's Tempcorps was an agent of Case Farms, ATC’s actions were attributable to Case Farms for the purpose of assessing compliance with the AWPA, and Case Farms was liable for ATC’s actions..\n\n"}
{"id": "55685932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55685932", "title": "Doe v. Trump (2017)", "text": "Doe v. Trump (2017)\n\nJane Doe v. Trump (1:17-cv-01597-CKK) is a lawsuit filed on August 28, 2017 in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The suit seeks to block Trump and top Pentagon officials from implementing the proposed ban on military service for transgender people under the auspices of the equal protection and due process clauses of the Fifth Amendment. The suit was filed on the behalf of five anonymous transgender service members by two major LGBT-rights organizations, GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) and the National Center for Lesbian Rights, who filed a petition in the United States District Court in Washington.\n\nThe lawsuit was amended to add one more anonymous plaintiff and two named plaintiffs in late August 2017. In addition to President Trump, the amended suit names as defendants the Secretaries of Defense (James Mattis), the Army (Ryan McCarthy, acting), the Navy (Richard Spencer), the Air Force (Heather Wilson), and Homeland Security (Kirstjen Nielsen).\n\nTrump first announced a policy banning transgender people from serving in the military in \"any capacity\" in a series of tweets on July 26, 2017, stating that allowing such service members would incur \"tremendous medical costs and disruption\". The decision reversed Obama administration policy to allow the enlistment of transgender personnel, which was initially approved by the Department of Defense to begin July 1, but was delayed by Defense Secretary Mattis. Trump issued formal guidance on the ban to the Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security in a memorandum on August 25, 2017.\n\nOn August 31, 2017, three former secretaries of military services, Eric Fanning (Army), Ray Mabus (Navy), and Deborah Lee James (Air Force), submitted declarations in support of the plaintiffs, and three plaintiffs were added to the lawsuit. Also on August 31, the plaintiffs applied for a preliminary injunction on the proposed ban, stating \"it is unconstitutional\" and that \"Plaintiffs have suffered serious and irreparable harms that will continue absent this Court's intervention.\"\n\nOn October 4, the United States Department of Justice Civil Division filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint in \"Jane Doe v. Trump\" and to oppose the application for a preliminary injunction, arguing instead \"that challenge is premature several times over\" and that Secretary Mattis's Interim Guidance, issued on September 14, 2017, protects currently-serving transgender personnel from involuntary discharge or denial of reenlistment. The lead author of the Justice Department's motion, Ryan Bradley Parker, previously defended the military's ban on gay soldiers. In response, the plaintiffs filed opposition to the motion to dismiss on October 16, stating the Interim Guidance issued by Secretary Mattis explicitly prohibited accession of transgender individuals and provided guidance for medical treatment that contradicted existing policy. Also on October 16, the attorney generals of fifteen states and the District of Columbia, led by Maura Healey, Attorney General of Massachusetts, filed an \"amicus\" brief supporting the suit. In the brief, the states asserted that \"[n]othing about being transgender inhibits a person’s ability to serve in the military or otherwise contribute to society\" and that President Trump's ban was \"apparently announced without any consultation with top military leaders\".\n\nJudge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly granted the plaintiffs' preliminary injunction on October 30, 2017. In the ruling, Judge Kollar-Kotelly noted the defendants' motion to dismiss the case was \"perhaps compelling in the abstract, [but] wither away under scrutiny.\" The ruling effectively reinstated the policies established prior to President Trump's tweets announcing the ban, namely the retention and accession policies for transgender personnel that were effective on June 30, 2017. However, the court denied a preliminary injunction against the ban on government-funded sex reassignment surgery for service members \"because no Plaintiff has demonstrated that they are substantially likely to be impacted by this directive.\"\n\nOn November 21, 2017, the United States Department of Justice (USDOJ) appealed the preliminary injunction in the case of \"Jane Doe v. Trump\". One day later, on November 22, USDOJ filed a motion seeking to clarify whether Secretary Mattis had independent authority to modify the original directive issued by Secretary Carter in 2016. The original Directive-type Memorandum (DTM) 16-005 permitted accession (entry to military service through enlistment or enrollment in a Service Academy, ROTC, or other similar program) of transgender individuals starting on July 1, 2017, and Secretary Mattis had modified DTM 16-005 just before accession was set to start by imposing a six-month delay to allow for a study of the effects on force \"readiness and lethality\". In their motion opposing the clarification, Plaintiffs claimed the Defendants were seeking a \"substantive change to the Court's injunction\" and the Court subsequently issued another order on November 27, 2017. In the order, Judge Kollar-Kotelly clarified the Order of October 30 effectively reverted the policy back to the \"status quo\" that existed prior to the Presidential Memorandum of August 25, meaning that accession of transgender individuals will proceed as scheduled starting January 1, 2018, per Secretary Mattis's modification issued June 30, 2017 to DTM 16-005.\n\nOn December 6, USDOJ filed for a partial stay of the order of November 27 requiring accessions to start on January 1, 2018, including a statement from Lernes J. Herbert, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, Military Personnel Policy, in which he argued that \"transgender applicants may not receive the appropriate medical and administrative accession screening necessary for someone with a complex medical condition. As a result, an applicant may be accessed for military service who is not physically or psychologically equipped to engage in combat/operational service.\" In the accompanying Memorandum of Points and Authorities, USDOJ also argued the military was not given \"the appropriate level of deference\" while studying the service of transgender troops, and that Secretary Mattis retained \"independent authority to extend the effective date of the new accessions policy\" as that authority had not been challenged in the original complaint. In opposition, Plaintiffs filed a motion on December 8, noting that preparations for accession of transgender candidates were largely complete by July 1, 2017, and an additional six months had been added. The memorandum added \"the government offers no explanation why a ban on accession by transgender people would be any less unconstitutional if it were imposed by the Secretary [of Defense] based on his own initiative rather than at the direction of the President.\"\n\nOn December 11, Judge Kollar-Kotelly denied the motion for partial stay, noting it took three weeks for USDOJ to file the first appeal, and that she \"would have expected Defendants to act with more alacrity\" if the January 1, 2018 deadline for accession was unmanageable. Judge Kollar-Kotelly also stated Hebert's declaration \"[failed] to acknowledge the considerable amount of time Defendants have already had to prepare for the implementation of this [accession] policy\", nearly a year and a half since the original DTM 16-005 was issued by Secretary Carter on June 30, 2016, and further, \"that considerable work has been done already during this lengthy period.\"\n\nUSDOJ filed for an emergency stay with the D.C. Circuit late on December 11, calling the accession of transgender individuals \"a significant change to its standards for the composition of the armed forces\" and asking that either Secretary Mattis be allowed to further defer the start of accessions, or ruling the scope of the preliminary injunction and clarifying order should narrowly apply only to the identified Plaintiffs. In their response filed on December 15, Plaintiffs noted \"the government cannot credibly claim that it will be irreparably harmed by implementing a policy that it was on track to implement six months ago\" and the \"facially discriminatory ban on accession and service by transgender people serves no governmental interest sufficient to satisfy the Fifth Amendment, and the district court’s injunction barring its enforcement is [...] the ordinary remedy for unconstitutional government action\".\n\nIn addition, an \"amici\" brief was filed by retired military officers and national security officials supporting the injunction on December 15. The brief compared the accession of transgender candidates with prior changes to accession policy, including the racial and sexual integrations that occurred during the Truman and Obama Administrations, concluding that \"Each of the above personnel decisions was the product of a rigorous policy review involving senior military officials and an evidence-based examination of the likely impact of the proposed change. In sharp contrast, on the morning of July\n26, 2017, President Trump suddenly announced a ban on transgender persons serving in the military in a series of three tweets. No effort was made—nor evidence presented—to show that this pronouncement resulted from any analysis of the cost or disruption allegedly caused by allowing transgender individuals to serve openly in the military.\"\n\nOn December 22, 2017, a three-judge panel of the D.C. Circuit denied the request for an emergency stay. In the order, the judges wrote that USDOJ had failed to identify \"the scope of Secretary Mattis's asserted authority to act in this matter entirely independently of the specific directions of the commander in Chief\", concluding that USDOJ had failed \"to make a compelling case on the current record that any of the stay factors weigh in their favor\".\n\nIn December 2017, the Plaintiffs served a discovery request aimed at identifying when and on what basis President Trump decided to ban military service by transgender persons. The Defendants responded by claiming the information should be withheld on the basis of separation-of-powers and as part of the deliberative process privilege. Judge Kollar-Kotelly issued two orders in February 2018: one to allow the designation of confidential documents, removing those so designated from public view, and another to ensure that confidential material is handled by both sides appropriately.\n\nUSDOJ formally filed a motion for a protective order on February 27, 2018, complaining about the \"multiple, burdensome discovery requests [issued] directly to the President of the United States\" and noting the responsiveness in issuing \"more than 80,000 pages of documents on an expedited, rolling basis from the Department of Defense, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Defense Health Agency, and the Departments of the Army, Air Force, and Navy\". In their response, the Plaintiffs argued that \"[t]here are good reasons to doubt—and to investigate—whether the ban originated from, or was even vetted by, the Nation's military professionals\" and stated that discovery was meant to assess \"any process that preceded the reversal of the open service policy\" since the Defendants' arguments relied on assertions of military deference and privilege based on a deliberative process. USDOJ argued the \"entire \"purpose\" of [the Plaintiffs'] demand is to test and expose the President’s deliberative process, and protection of the information sought through interrogatories falls comfortably within the law protecting presidential communications and deliberations\", tying the protective order to the motion to dismiss the President as a defendant filed on March 2.\n\nOn March 2, USDOJ followed up with a second motion to remove the President as a defendant and dissolve the injunction with respect to the President, arguing the \"Plaintiffs may not obtain—and the Court may not order—injunctive or declaratory relief directly against the President for his official conduct\" but conceding \"in cases involving the President and other defendants, courts avoid granting relief against the President and instead grant relief only against subordinate officials in the Executive Branch. The plaintiffs countered by arguing the move was \"a contrived route to discovery in a case where the President’s decision caused Plaintiffs’ injuries, the genesis and purpose of that decision are central questions in the case, and the Executive Office of the President maintains records that may be critical to the litigation.\" USDOJ clarified their position by asserting that \" a court may not grant injunctive or declaratory relief against the President for his official, non-ministerial conduct particularly where, as here, relief granted against subordinate Executive officials would provide full relief to Plaintiffs\" and outlined a path forward by stating \"the Court could dismiss the President from the case, review the constitutionality of the operative policy governing military service by transgender individuals, and, if the Court finds the policy to be unconstitutional, issue an injunction and/or a declaratory judgment against the other defendants\".\n\nOn March 23, 2018, armed with a new Presidential Memorandum, the defendants filed two new motions: one to dissolve the preliminary injunction, and another for a protective order. The motion to dissolve the preliminary injunction stated \"this new policy, like the Carter policy before it, turns on the medical condition of gender dysphoria and contains a nuanced set of exceptions allowing some transgender individuals, including almost every Plaintiff here, to serve\" and asserted \"the military's new policy is constitutional\", concluding that challenges to the new policy \"should not be litigated under the shadow of a preliminary injunction of a Presidential Memorandum that is no longer in effect\". The protective order asked that discovery proceedings be halted while the motion to dissolve the preliminary injunction is being considered.\n\nJudge Kollar-Kotelly outlined required document filing dates in an order issued on March 28, which stated the Plaintiffs shall file an amended complaint by April 6, and that discovery would continue pending a formal Reply in Support of their motion for a protective order. The preliminary injunction was left in place for now pending the amended complaint. Following the amendment, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint and dissolve the preliminary injunction, both of which the court denied on August 6, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9229436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9229436", "title": "Equal Treatment Directive 2006", "text": "Equal Treatment Directive 2006\n\nThe Equal Treatment Directive 2006/54/EC is an Act of the European Union, which implements the principle of equal treatment between men and women in EU labour law.\n\nSince the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force in 1999, new EU laws, or Directives, have been enacted in the area of anti-discrimination. The Equal Treatment Directive 2006/54/EC is a consolidation of previous Directives in this area, notably, the Directive 76/207/EEC, which was amended by Directive 2002/73/EC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22398341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22398341", "title": "Fire-safe polymers", "text": "Fire-safe polymers\n\nFire-safe polymers are polymers that are resistant to degradation at high temperatures. There is need for fire-resistant polymers in the construction of small, enclosed spaces such as skyscrapers, boats, and airplane cabins. In these tight spaces, ability to escape in the event of a fire is compromised, increasing fire risk. In fact, some studies report that about 20% of victims of airplane crashes are killed not by the crash itself but by ensuing fires. Fire-safe polymers also find application as adhesives in aerospace materials, insulation for electronics, and in military materials such as canvas tenting.\n\nSome fire-safe polymers naturally exhibit an intrinsic resistance to decomposition, while others are synthesized by incorporating fire-resistant additives and fillers. Current research in developing fire-safe polymers is focused on modifying various properties of the polymers such as ease of ignition, rate of heat release, and the evolution of smoke and toxic gases. Standard methods for testing polymer flammability vary among countries; in the United States common fire tests include the UL 94 small-flame test, the ASTM E 84 Steiner Tunnel, and the ASTM E 622 National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) smoke chamber. Research on developing fire-safe polymers with more desirable properties is concentrated at the University of Massachusetts Amherst and at the Federal Aviation Administration where a long-term research program on developing fire-safe polymers was begun in 1995. The Center for UMass/Industry Research on Polymers (CUMIRP) was established in 1980 in Amherst, MA as a concentrated cluster of scientists from both academia and industry for the purpose of polymer science and engineering research.\n\nControlling the flammability of different materials has been a subject of interest since 450 B.C. when Egyptians attempted to reduce the flammability of wood by soaking it in potassium aluminum sulfate (alum). Between 450 B.C. and the early 20th century, other materials used to reduce the flammability of different materials included mixtures of alum and vinegar; clay and hair; clay and gypsum; alum, ferrous sulfate, and gypsum; and ammonium chloride, ammonium phosphate, borax, and various acids. These early attempts found application in reducing the flammability of wood for military materials, theater curtains, and other textiles, for example. Important milestones during this early work include the first patent for a mixture for controlling flammability issued to Obadiah Wyld in 1735, and the first scientific exploration of controlling flammability, which was undertaken by Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac in 1821.\n\nResearch on fire-retardant polymers was bolstered by the need for new types of synthetic polymers in World War II. The combination of a halogenated paraffin and antimony oxide was found to be successful as a fire retardant for canvas tenting. Synthesis of polymers, such as polyesters, with fire retardant monomers were also developed around this time. Incorporating flame-resistant additives into polymers became a common and relatively cheap way to reduce the flammability of polymers, while synthesizing intrinsically fire-resistant polymers has remained a more expensive alternative, although the properties of these polymers are usually more efficient at deterring combustion.\n\nTraditional polymers decompose under heat and produce combustible products; thus, they are able to originate and easily propagate fire (as shown in Figure 1).\nThe combustion process begins when heating a polymer yields volatile products. If these products are sufficiently concentrated, within the flammability limits, and at a temperature above the ignition temperature, then combustion proceeds. As long as the heat supplied to the polymer remains sufficient to sustain its thermal decomposition at a rate exceeding that required to feed the flame, combustion will continue.\n\nThe purpose is to control heat below the critical level. To achieve this, one can create an endothermic environment, produce non-combustible products, or add chemicals that would remove fire-propagating radicals (H and OH), to name a few. These specific chemicals can be added into the polymer molecules permanently (see Intrinsically Fire-Resistant Polymers) or as additives and fillers (see Flame-Retardant Additives and Fillers).\n\nOxygen catalyzes the pyrolysis of polymers at low concentration and initiates oxidation at high concentration. Transition concentrations are different for different polymers. (e.g., polypropylene, between 5% and 15%). Additionally, polymers exhibit a structural-dependent relationship with oxygen. Some structures are intrinsically more sensitive to decomposition upon reaction with oxygen. The amount of access that oxygen has to the surface of the polymer also plays a role in polymer combustion. Oxygen is better able to interact with the polymer before a flame has actually been ignited.\n\nIn most cases, results from a typical heating rate (e.g. 10℃/min for mechanical thermal degradation studies) do not differ significantly from those obtained at higher heating rates. The extent of reaction can, however, be influenced by the heating rate. For example, some reactions may not occur with a low heating rate due to evaporation of the products.\n\nVolatile products are removed more efficiently under low pressure, which means the stability of the polymer might have been compromised. Decreased pressure also slows down decomposition of high boiling products.\n\nThe polymers that are most efficient at resisting combustion are those that are synthesized as intrinsically fire-resistant. However, these types of polymers can be difficult as well as costly to synthesize. Modifying different properties of the polymers can increase their intrinsic fire-resistance; increasing rigidity or stiffness, the use of polar monomers, and/or hydrogen bonding between the polymer chains can all enhance fire-resistance.\n\nMost intrinsically fire-resistant polymers are made by incorporation of aromatic cycles or heterocycles, which lend rigidity and stability to the polymers. Polyimides, polybenzoxazoles (PBOs), polybenzimidazoles, and polybenzthiazoles (PBTs) are examples of polymers made with aromatic heterocycles (Figure 2). Polymers made with aromatic monomers have a tendency to condense into chars upon combustion, decreasing the amount of flammable gas that is released. Syntheses of these types of polymers generally employ prepolymers which are further reacted to form the fire-resistant polymers.\n\nLadder polymers are a subclass of polymers made with aromatic cycles or heterocycles. Ladder polymers generally have one of two types of general structures, as shown in Figure 3.One type of ladder polymer links two polymer chains with periodic covalent bonds. In another type, the ladder polymer consists of a single chain that is double-stranded. Both types of ladder polymers exhibit good resistance to decomposition from heat because the chains do not necessarily fall apart if one covalent bond is broken. However, this makes the processing of ladder polymers difficult because they are not easily melted. These difficulties are compounded because ladder polymers are often highly insoluble.\n\nInorganic and semiorganic polymers often employ silicon-nitrogen, boron-nitrogen, and phosphorus-nitrogen monomers. The non-burning characteristics of the inorganic components of these polymers contribute to their controlled flammability. For example, instead of forming toxic, flammable gasses in abundance, polymers prepared with incorporation of cyclotriphosphazene rings give a high char yield upon combustion. Polysialates (polymers containing frameworks of aluminum, oxygen, and silicon) are another type of inorganic polymer that can be thermally stable up to temperatures of 1300-1400 °C.\n\nAdditives are divided into two basic types depending on the interaction of the additive and polymer. Reactive flame retardants are compounds that are chemically built into the polymer. They usually contain heteroatoms. Additive flame retardants, on the other hand, are compounds that are not covalently bound to the polymer; the flame retardant and the polymer are just physically mixed together.\nOnly a few elements are being widely used in this field: aluminum, phosphorus, nitrogen, antimony, chlorine, bromine, and in specific applications magnesium, zinc and carbon. One prominent advantage of the flame retardants (FRs) derived from these elements is that they are relatively easy to manufacture. They are used in important quantities: in 2013, the world consumption of FRs amounted to around 1.8/2.1 Mio t for 2013 with sales of 4.9/5.2 billion USD. Market studies estimate FRs demand to rise between 5/7 % pa to 2.4/2.6 Mio t until 2016/2018 with estimated sales of 6.1/7.1 billion USD.\n\nThe most important flame retardants systems used act either in the gas phase where they remove the high energy radicals H and OH from the flame or in the solid phase, where they shield the polymer by forming a charred layer and thus protect the polymer from being attacked by oxygen and heat.\nFlame retardants based on bromine or chlorine, as well as a number of phosphorus compounds act chemically in the gas phase and are very efficient. Others only act in the condensed phase such as metal hydroxides (aluminum trihydrate, or ATH, magnesium hydroxide, or MDH, and boehmite), metal oxides and salts (zinc borate and zinc oxide, zinc hydroxystannate), as well as expandable graphite and some nanocomposites (see below). Phosphorus and nitrogen compounds are also effective in the condensed phase, and as they also may act in the gas phase, they are quite efficient flame retardants. Overviews of the main flame retardants families, their mode of action and applications are given in. Further handbooks on these topics are \nA good example for a very efficient phosphorus-based flame retardant system acting in the gas and condensed phases is aluminium diethyl phosphinate in conjunction with synergists such as melamine polyphosphate (MPP) and others. These phosphinates are mainly used to flame retard polyamides (PA) and polybutylene terephthalate (PBT) for flame retarded applications in electrical engineering/electronics (E&E).\n\nBesides providing satisfactory mechanical properties and renewability, natural fibers are easier to obtain and much cheaper than man-made materials. Moreover, they are more environmentally friendly. Recent research focuses on application of different types of fire retardants during the manufacturing process as well as applications of fire retardants (especially intumescent coatings) at the finishing stage.\n\nNanocomposites have become a hotspot in the research of fire-safe polymers because of their relatively low cost and high flexibility for multifunctional properties. Gilman and colleagues did the pioneering work by demonstrating the improvement of fire-retardancy by having nanodispersed montmorillonite clay in the polymer matrix. Later, organomodified clays, TiO nanoparticles, silica nanoparticles, layered double hydroxides, carbon nanotubes and polyhedral silsesquioxanes were proved to work as well. Recent research has suggested that combining nanoparticles with traditional fire retardants (e.g., intumescents) or with surface treatment (e.g., plasma treatment) effectively decreases flammability.\n\nAlthough effective at reducing flammability, flame-retardant additives and fillers have disadvantages as well. Their poor compatibility, high volatility and other deleterious effects can change properties of polymers. Besides, addition of many fire-retardants produces soot and carbon monoxide during combustion. Halogen-containing materials cause even more concerns on environmental pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1838300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1838300", "title": "Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty", "text": "Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty\n\nThe Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty (FMCT) is a proposed international treaty to prohibit the further production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other explosive devices. The treaty has not been negotiated and its terms remain to be defined. According to a proposal by the United States, fissile material includes high-enriched uranium and plutonium (except plutonium that is over 80% Pu-238). According to a proposal by Russia, fissile material would be limited to weapons-grade uranium (with more than 90% U-235) and plutonium (with more than 90% Pu-239). Neither proposal would prohibit the production of fissile material for non-weapons purposes, including use in civil or naval nuclear reactors.\n\nIn a 27 September 1993 speech before the UN, President Clinton called for a multilateral convention banning the production of fissile materials for nuclear explosives or outside international safeguards. In December 1993 the UN General Assembly adopted resolution 48/75L calling for the negotiation of a \"non-discriminatory, multilateral and international effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.\" The Geneva-based Conference on Disarmament (CD) on 23 March 1995 agreed to establish a committee to negotiate \"a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.\". However, substantive negotiations have not taken place.\n\nIn 2004, the United States announced that it opposed the inclusion of a verification mechanism in the treaty on the grounds that the treaty could not be effectively verified. On November 4, 2004, the United States cast the sole vote in the First Committee of the United Nations General Assembly against a resolution (A/C.1/59/L.34) calling for negotiation of an effectively verifiable treaty. The Bush Administration supported a treaty but advocated an ad hoc system of verification wherein states would monitor the compliance of other states through their own national intelligence mechanisms.\nOn April 5, 2009, U.S. President Barack Obama reversed the U.S. position on verification and proposed to negotiate \"a new treaty that verifiably ends the production of fissile materials intended for use in state nuclear weapons.\" On May 29, 2009, the CD agreed to establish an FMCT negotiating committee,\n\nHowever, Pakistan has repeatedly blocked the CD from implementing its agreed program of work, despite severe pressure from the major nuclear powers to end its defiance of 64 other countries in blocking international ban on the production of new nuclear bomb-making material, as well as discussions on full nuclear disarmament, the arms race in outer space, and security assurances for non-nuclear states. Pakistan justified its actions when Chairman joint chiefs General Tariq Majid argued that \"a proposed fissile material cutoff treaty would target Pakistan specifically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27448648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27448648", "title": "Floor (legislative)", "text": "Floor (legislative)\n\nThe floor of a legislature or chamber is the place where members sit and make speeches. When a person is speaking there formally, they are said to \"have the floor\". The House of Commons and the House of Lords of the United Kingdom; the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate all have \"floors\" with established procedures and protocols.\n\nWhen MPs make speeches in Lok Sabha in India, they are said to be making speeches on the floor.\n\nActivity on the floor of a council or legislature, such as debate, may be contrasted with meetings and discussion which takes place in committee, for which there are often separate committee rooms. Some actions, such as the overturning of an executive veto, may only be taken on the floor.\n\nIn the United Kingdom's House of Commons a rectangular configuration is used with the government ministers and their party sitting on the right of the presiding Speaker and the opposing parties sitting on the benches opposite. Members are not permitted to speak between the red lines on the floor which mark the boundaries of each side. These are traditionally two sword lengths apart to mitigate the possibility of physical conflict. If a member changes allegiance between the two sides, they are said to \"cross the floor\". Only members and the essential officers of the house such as the clerks are permitted upon the floor while parliament is in session.\n\nThe two important debating floors of the U.S. Federal government are in the House of Representatives and the Senate. The rules of procedure of both floors have evolved to change the balance of power and decision making between the floors and the committees. Both floors were publicly televised by 1986. The procedures for passing legislation are quite varied with differing degrees of party, committee and conference involvement. In general, during the late 20th century, the power of the floors increased and the number of amendments made on the floor increased significantly.\n\nThe procedures used upon legislative floors are based upon standard works which include\n\n\nIn other deliberative assemblies, the concept of a \"floor\" may also be used. The following work was initially based on the procedures used upon legislative floors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50035936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50035936", "title": "Franco Modugno", "text": "Franco Modugno\n\nFranco Modugno (born 3 May 1938) is an Italian judge and former law professor at the Sapienza University of Rome. He has been Judge of the Constitutional Court of Italy since 21 December 2015. \n\nModugno was born in Rome on 3 May 1938. He obtained a degree in Jurisprudence from the Sapienza University of Rome in 1961. Six years later Modugno started as lecturer of constitutional law at the University of Teramo. He held similar positions at the University of Macerata from 1972 to 1973 and the University of Salerno from 1973 to 1975. In 1975 he started as a professor of Public Law at the Sapienza University and later also held a chair in constitutional law.\n\nOn 25 November, the Italian Parliament failed to elect three candidates to the Constitutional Court; Modugno obtained 140 votes, primarily coming from the Five Star Movement. Modugno was elected to the Constitutional Court by the Parliament on 16 December 2015, and he was sworn in five days later.\n\nModugno was made Knight in the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic on 27 December 1993. On 2 June 2013 he was made Commander in the same Order.\n"}
{"id": "6949047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6949047", "title": "Gaelic Language (Scotland) Act 2005", "text": "Gaelic Language (Scotland) Act 2005\n\nThe Gaelic Language (Scotland) Act 2005 () is an Act of the Scottish Parliament passed in 2005, and is the first piece of legislation to give formal recognition to the Scottish Gaelic language.\n\nThe bill was introduced into the Scottish Parliament on 28 September 2004 by Peter Peacock. On 21 August 2005 the Parliament voted unanimously to approve the bill.\n\nThe Gaelic Language Act aims to secure Gaelic as an official language of Scotland, \"commanding equal respect\" with English, by establishing as part of the framework of government in Scotland and also requiring the creation of a national plan for Gaelic to provide strategic direction for the development of the Gaelic language. [Note: The phrase \"equal respect\" contains no clear meaning in the law. Its usage was chosen to prevent the assumption that the Gaelic language is in any way considered to have \"equal validity or parity of esteem with English\".]\n\nThe Act also gives a key role in promoting Gaelic in Scotland, advising Scottish Ministers on Gaelic issues, driving forward Gaelic planning and preparing guidance on Gaelic education. The Act also provides a framework for the creation of Gaelic language plans by Scottish public authorities.\n\nFormer Education Minister Peter Peacock, who, at the time of the Act coming into force, had ministerial responsibility for Gaelic, said: \"This is a momentous day for Gaelic as we open a new chapter in the language's history. We have come a long way since the dark days of 1616 when an Act of Parliament ruled that Gaelic should be 'abolishit and removit' from Scotland.\"\n\nA key limitation of the act is that it applies only to public bodies operating in Scotland and whose business is classed as being a devolved matter (outlined by the Scotland Act 1998).\n\n\"The Plan includes proposals for the promotion of strategies for increasing the number able to speak Gaelic, encouraging its use and facilitating access to Gaelic language and culture.\" The Plan addresses the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8613452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8613452", "title": "Habeas data", "text": "Habeas data\n\nHabeas data is a writ and constitutional remedy available in certain nations. The literal translation from Latin of \"habeas data\" is “[we command] you have the data”. The remedy varies from country to country, but in general, it is designed to protect, by means of an individual complaint presented to a constitutional court, the data, image, privacy, honour, information self-determination and freedom of information of a person.\n\n\"Habeas data\" can be sought by any citizen against any manual or automated data register to find out what information is held about his or her person. That person can request the rectification, actualisation or even the destruction of the personal data held. The legal nature of the individual complaint of \"habeas data\" is that of voluntary jurisdiction, this means that the person whose privacy is being compromised can be the only one to present it. The Courts do not have any power to initiate the process by themselves.\n\n\"Habeas data\" is an individual complaint file before a Constitutional Court and related to the privacy of personal data. The first such complaint is the \"habeas corpus\" (which is roughly translated as “[we command] you have the body”). Other individual complaints include the writ of mandamus (USA), amparo (Spain, Mexico and Argentina), and respondeat superior (Taiwan).\n\nThe habeas data writ itself has a very short history, but its origins can be traced to certain European legal mechanisms that protected individual privacy. In particular, certain German constitutional rights can be identified as the direct progenitors of the Habeas Data right. In particular, the right to information self-determination was created by the German Constitutional Tribunal by interpretation of the existing rights of human dignity and personality . This is a right to know what type of data are stored on manual and automatic databases about an individual, and it implies that there must be transparency on the gathering and processing of such data. The other direct predecessor of the Habeas Data right is the Council of Europe’s 108th Convention on Data Protection of 1981. The purpose of the convention is to secure the privacy of the individual regarding the automated processing of personal data. To achieve this, several rights are given to the individual, including a right to access their personal data held in an automated database.\n\nThe first country to implement Habeas Data was the Federal Republic of Brazil. In 1988, the Brazilian legislature voted to introduce a new Constitution, which included a novel right never seen before: the Habeas Data individual complaint. It is expressed as a full constitutional right under article 5, LXXII, of the Constitution.\n\nFollowing the Brazilian example, Colombia incorporated the Habeas Data right to its new Constitution in 1991. After that, many countries followed suit and adopted the new legal tool in their respective constitutions: Paraguay in 1992, Peru in 1993, Argentina in 1994, and Ecuador in 1996. Between 1999 and 2012 several Latin American countries have enacted data protection laws where the procedure to file an habeas data writ is regulated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51491662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51491662", "title": "Hale v. Henkel", "text": "Hale v. Henkel\n\nHale v. Henkel, 201 U.S. 43 (1906), was a major United States Supreme Court case in which the Court established the power of a federal grand jury engaged in an investigation into corporate malfeasance to require the corporation in question to surrender its records.\n\nEdwin F. Hale, the petitioner, was the treasurer of MacAndrews and Forbes. Founded in 1850, MacAndrews and Forbes was one of six companies that were under investigation for price fixing of tobacco, in violation of the Sherman Act.\n\nIn 1906, US government prosecutors served a grand jury subpoena on Hale that demanded him to testify and turn over corporate documents. Hale appeared before the jury but refused to reply to questions or to produce documents. On his company's behalf, he invoked the Fifth Amendment privilege and was held in contempt. Hale then hired a lawyer and filed a lawsuit, which ultimately came before the Supreme Court.\n\nHale's argument was that a grand jury cannot require persons representing corporations to testify or demand them to produce documents unless the charges that are being investigated are first explained.\n\nIn a majority opinion written by Justice Henry B. Brown, the Court rejected Hale's argument by maintaining that a grand jury can examine witnesses and demand documentary evidence in connection with a probe into possible crimes, even if it did not identify the scope of its investigation.\n\nThe Court then rejected Hale's privilege claim by ruling that the self-incrimination privilege provided to citizens by the Fifth Amendment did not apply to corporations.\n\nIn short, the Court held that corporate employees cannot assert the privilege against self-incrimination on behalf of their employer. The Fifth Amendment guarantee \"protects individual civil liberties, not economic business interests.\" The principle that \"corporations and other collective entities are treated differently from individuals\" under the Fifth Amendment is called the collective entity rule.\n\nThe defendant of record in the case was William Henkel, US Marshal.\n\n\"There is a clear distinction between an individual and a corporation, and the latter, being a creature of the State, has not the constitutional right to refuse to submit its books and papers for an examination at the suit of the State.\"\n\n\"The individual may stand upon his constitutional rights as a citizen. He is entitled to carry on his private business in his own way. His power to contract is unlimited. He owes no duty to the State or to his neighbors to divulge his business, or to open his doors to an investigation, so far as it may tend to criminate [sic] him. He owes no such duty to the State, since he receives nothing therefrom beyond the protection of his life and property. His rights are such as existed by the law of the land long antecedent to the organization of the State, and can only be taken from him by due process of law, and in accordance with the Constitution. Among his rights are a refusal to incriminate himself and the immunity of himself and his property from arrest or seizure except under a warrant of the law. He owes nothing to the public so long as he does not trespass upon their rights.\"\n\nThe Court's subsequent ruling in \"Wilson v. United States\" (1911) built upon \"Hale v. Henkel\" by prohibiting corporate officers from invoking their own personal Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination to justify a failure to turn over corporate documents. Such a use of the Fifth Amendment privilege, according to the Court, would inhibit the state's visitatorial rights over corporations. Later Supreme Court decisions applied the principle established in \"Hale v. Henkel\" to unions (\"United States v. White\" (1944)), partnerships (\"Bellis v. United States\" (1974)), and sole proprietorships (\"United States v. Doe\" (1984)). The cases have reflected the Court's consistent view that the Fifth Amendment privilege should apply to only individual human beings, not artificial entities.\n\nOn the other hand, the ruling in \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\" (2010) granted corporations an unfettered right of political free speech, and \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby\" (2014) recognized corporations' religious liberties. One observer has described these two most recent rulings as \"underscoring a deep rift on the Roberts court about the permissible (or desirable) extent of corporate personhood under the Bill of Rights.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "621723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621723", "title": "Henrician Articles", "text": "Henrician Articles\n\nThe Henrician Articles or King Henry's Articles (Polish: \"Artykuły henrykowskie\", Latin: \"Articuli Henriciani\") were a permanent contract between the \"Polish nation\" (i.e., the szlachta (nobility) of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth) and a newly elected king upon his election to the throne that stated the fundamental principles of governance and constitutional law in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nWhile \"pacta conventa\" comprised only the personal undertakings of the king-elect, the Henrician Articles were a permanent statute that all kings-elect had to swear to respect.\n\nThe articles functioned, essentially, as a first constitution for Poland until the Constitution of May 3, 1791.\n\nThe charter took the form of 18 Articles written and adopted by the nobility in 1573 at the town of Kamień, near Warsaw, during the interregnum following the extinction of the Jagiellon dynasty. The document took its name from that of Henry of Valois, the first Polish king elected in a free election, who was obliged to sign the Articles before being allowed to ascend the throne. Subsequently every king-elect was required to swear fidelity to them, as is contrasted with the similar documents, the \"pacta conventa\", which were tailored and different for each king-elect. Acceptance by the king-elect of the articles was a condition of his elevation to the throne, and they formed part of the royal oath at the coronation.\n\nThe provisions of the Henrician Articles stated that:\n\n"}
{"id": "35473263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35473263", "title": "Human rights movement", "text": "Human rights movement\n\nHuman rights movement refers to a nongovernmental social movement engaged in activism related to the issues of human rights. The foundations of the global human rights movement involve resistance to: colonialism, imperialism, slavery, racism, apartheid, patriarchy, and oppression of indigenous peoples.\n\nA key principle of the human rights movement is its appeal to universality: the idea that all human beings should struggle in solidarity for a common set of basic conditions that has to be followed by all.\n\nHuman rights activism predates the 20th century, and includes, for example, the anti-slavery movement. Historical movements were usually concerned with a limited set of issues, and they were more local than global. One account identifies the 1899 Hague Convention as a starting point for the idea that humans have rights independent of the states that control them.\n\nThe activities of the International Federation for Human Rights (originally the International Labor Organization)—founded in France by the international labor movement in the 1920s—can be seen as a precursor to the modern movements. This organization was quickly embraced by the United States and European powers, perhaps as a way to counteract the Bolshevik call for global solidarity among workers.\n\nAnother major global human rights movement grew out of resistance to colonialism. The Congo Reform Association, founded in 1904, has also been described as a foundational modern human rights movement. This group used photographs to document terror wrought by Belgians in the course of demanding rubber production in the Congo. These photographs were passed among sympathetic Europeans and Americans, including Edmund Morel, Joseph Conrad, and Mark Twain—who wrote satirically as King Leopold:\n\n...oh well, the pictures get sneaked around everywhere, in spite of all we can do to ferret them out and suppress them. Ten thousand pulpits and ten thousand presses are saying the good word for me all the time and placidly and convincingly denying the mutilations. Then that trivial little kodak, that a child can carry in its pocket, gets up, uttering never a word, and knocks them dumb!\n\nThe photos and subsequent literature triggered international outrage at Belgian crimes committed against the Congolese.\n\nAs the century went on, African Americans including W. E. B. Du Bois, Walter White, and Paul Robeson joined with leaders of the African diaspora (from Haiti, Liberia, the Philippines, and elsewhere) to make a global demand for basic rights. Although the origins of this movement were multifaceted (owing strength both to the capitalist Marcus Garvey and to the more left-wing African Blood Brotherhood), a definitive moment of international solidarity came after Italy's annexation of Ethiopia in 1935.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War II, the Pan-Africanist contingent played a major role in causing the United Nations to explicitly protect \"human rights\" in its founding documents. Du Bois compared colonies across the world to ghettos in the United States and called for a world document affirming the human rights of all people.\n\nRepresentatives of small countries (particularly from Latin America), as well as Du Bois and other activists, were unhappy with the version of human rights envisioned for the UN Charter at Dumbarton Oaks in 1944. Du Bois stated at the time that, evidently, \"the only way to human equality is through the philanthropy of the masters\". However, the US government supported powerful domestic organizations willing to promote its concept of human rights, such as the American Bar Association and the American Jewish Committee. These organizations won public approval of the United Nations and the human rights concept.\n\nThe concept of human rights was indeed built into United Nations with institutions such as the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Active diplomacy by Latin American countries was instrumental to the process of promoting these ideas and drafting the relevant agreements. As a result of this pressure, more human rights language was adopted at the 1945 San Francisco Conference to create the UN Charter. Revelations about the Holocaust, followed by the Nuremberg Trials, also had a major influence on the movement, particularly among Jewish and Christian lobbying groups. Some NGO's represented the UN charter as a victory for the human rights movement, while other activists argued that it paid lipservice to human rights while basically serving the interests of the great powers.\n\nEarly in the Cold War, the \"human rights\" concept was used to promote the ideological agendas of the superpowers. The Soviet Union argued that people in colonized lands around the world had been exploited by Western powers. A large percentage of Soviet propaganda to the Third World centered on charges of racism and human rights violations. The United States countered with its own propaganda, describing its own society as free and the Soviet Union's as unfree. Human rights language became an international standard, which could be used by great powers or by people's movements to make demands.\n\nWithin the United States, participants in the Civil Rights Movement called for human rights in addition to civil rights. Du Bois, the National Negro Congress (NNC), the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), the Civil Rights Congress (CRC), and other activists, soon began charging the U.S. with human rights violations at the U.N. In 1951, Du Bois, William Patterson and the CRC presented a document called \"We Charge Genocide\" which accused the US of complicity with ongoing systematic violence against African Americans.\n\nAn Appeal for Human Rights, published by Atlanta students in 1960, is cited as a key moment in beginning the wave of nonviolent direct actions that swept the American South. In 1967, less than a year before he was assassinated, Martin Luther King, Jr. began to argue that the concept of \"civil rights\" was laden with isolating, individualistic capitalist values. He said: \"It is necessary for us to realize that we have moved from the era of civil rights to the era of human rights. When you deal with human rights you are not dealing with something clearly defined in the Constitution. They are rights that are clearly defined by the mandates of a humanitarian concern.\" For King, who began to organize the multi-racial Poor People's Campaign at the end of his life, human rights required economic justice in addition to de jure equality.\n\nAfter the decolonization of Africa and of Asia, former colonies gained majority status in the UN's Commission on Human Rights, and focused their attention on global white supremacy and economic inequality—in doing so, choosing to admit other types of human rights abuses. Some of these nations argued that focusing on civil rights, as opposed to human rights, was a privilege available only to the wealthy nations that had benefited from colonialism. Demands for human rights in the Third World increased throughout the 1960s, even as the global superpowers turned their attention elsewhere.\n\nSince the 1970s the human rights movement has played an increasingly important role on the international scene. Although government support for human rights decreased, international organizations increased in strength and number. Some of the events of the 1970s, which gave global prominence to the human movements issue, included the abuses of Chilean Augusto Pinochet and American Richard Nixon administrations; the signing of the Helsinki Accords (1975) between the West and the USSR; the Soweto riots in South Africa; awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Amnesty International (1977); and the emergence of the Democracy Wall movement in China. Nixon was succeeded by the Jimmy Carter administration, much more supportive of the human rights issues.\n\nPressure from the international human rights movement brought human rights increasingly to the political agenda of numerous countries and diplomatic negotiations. As the issue of human rights became important for dissidents in the Eastern Bloc (Soviet human rights movement, Charter 77, Workers' Defence Committee), this period also saw a growing reframing of the struggle between the West and USSR from the economic terms (\"communism versus free market\") into a struggle for human rights (\"totalitarianism versus liberty\"). Since the end of the Cold War, the issues of human rights have been present in a number of major political and military conflicts, debated by global public opinion, from Kosovo to Iraq, Afghanistan, Congo and Darfur.\n\nOriginally, most international human rights organizations came from France and the UK; since the 1970s American organizations moved beyond rights for Americans to partake in the international scene, and around the turn of the century, as noted by Neier, \"the movement became so global in character that it is no longer possible to ascribe leadership to any particular [national or regional] segment\". However, others, like Ibhawoh, point out that there still is a gap between regions, particularly as most of the international human rights movement organizations are located in the global North, and thus continuous concerns are raised about their understanding of the situations in the global South.\n\nThe global human rights movement has become more expansive since the 1990s, including greater representation of women's rights and economic justice as part of the human rights umbrella. Economic, social and cultural (ESC) rights gained new prominence.\n\nAdvocates for women's human rights (sometimes identifying as part of the feminist movement), criticized the early human rights movement for focusing on male concerns and artificially excluding women's issues from the public sphere. Women's rights have nevertheless gained prominence in the international human rights movement, particularly insofar as they include protection from gender-based violence. In Latin America, the issue of women's human rights intersects with the struggle against authoritarian governments. In many cases (see: the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo) women's groups were some of the most prominent advocates of human rights in general. Mainstream acceptance of women's human rights within the international human rights movement has increased since 1989.\n\nThe authority of the United Nations human rights framework diminished in the 1990s, partly due to the emphasis on economic liberalization that followed the Cold War.\n\nThe 1990s also saw a call to \"defend the defenders\" of human rights—to protect human rights activists from violence and repression. Unfortunately, there has been an increase in the number of attacks on the activists The movement has come to a standstill as individuals continue to push for liberation but are unable to report their findings out of fear of harm or death. The number of female activists has been growing since the beginning of the Feminist movement however, there have been increased number of attacks on women. Recently, the Taliban targeted the female activists to send a message.\n\nThe internet has expanded the power of the human rights movement by improving communication between activists in different physical locations. This is known as mediated mobilization. Individuals who are using their voices to communicate about the injustices are now able to communicate with like minded people who use their voices through participatory journalism.\n\nThe human rights movement has historically focused on abuses by states, and some have argued that it has not attended closely enough to the actions of corporations. In the 1990s, some first steps were taken towards holding corporations accountable for human rights abuses. For example, the Parliament of Britain approved a resolution to censure British Petroleum for funding Colombian death squads.\n\nThe international human rights movement is concerned with issues such as deprivation of life and liberty, deprivation of the right of free and peaceful expressions, gatherings and worship, equal treatment regardless of individual background, and opposition to unjust and cruel practices such as torture.<ref name=\"Neier2012-2-3\"/ \nOther issues include opposition to the death penalty and to child labor.\n\nMuch of the human rights movement is local in nature, concerned with human rights violations in their own countries, but they rely on an international network of support. The international nature of the movement allows local activists to broadcast their concerns, sometimes generating international pressure on their home government. The movement generally espouses the principle that sovereignty ends where human rights begin. This principle justifies intervention across borders to rectify perceived violations.\n\nThe human rights movement is also credited with supplying local activists with a vocabulary to use in support of their claims.\n\nOne major schism within the international human rights movement has been between NGOs and activists from the First and Third Worlds. Critics of the mainstream movement have argued that it suffers from systemic biases and is unwilling to confront inequality on a global scale. In particular, some critique the role of neoliberal capitalism in creating economic conditions that engender 'human rights violations', arguing that the dominant human rights movement is blind to these dynamics. (\"See also:\" structural adjustment.) Makau Mutua has written:\n\nAs currently constituted and deployed, the human rights movement will ultimately fail because it is perceived as an alien ideology in non-Western societies. The movement does not deeply resonate in the cultural fabrics of non-Western states, except among hypocritical elites steeped in Western ideas. In order ultimately to prevail, the human rights movement must be moored in the cultures of all peoples.\n\nDavid Kennedy has criticized a tendency of the international human rights movement to \"treat human rights as an object of devotion rather than calculation\", arguing that human rights language is vague and may impede utilitarian assessments of a situation. Kennedy also argues that this vocabulary can be \"misused, distorted, or co-opted\", and that framing issues in terms of human rights may narrow the field of possibility and exclude other narratives. Others have also critiqued the movement and its language as vague.\n\nSome have argued that the human rights movement has a tendency to subtly debase people by portraying them as victims of abuse.\n\nParticularly since the 1970s, the international human rights movement has been mediated by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).\n\nMajor international human rights organizations include Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.\n\nHistorically, the influence of the International Federation for Human Rights is seen as highly important on the movement.\n\nThe creation of the International Criminal Court at the turn of the 21st century is seen as another achievement of the international human rights activists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3009289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3009289", "title": "International Bill of Human Rights", "text": "International Bill of Human Rights\n\nThe International Bill of Human Rights was the name given to UN General Assembly Resolution 217 (III) and two international treaties established by the United Nations. It consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (adopted in 1948), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR, 1966) with its two Optional Protocols and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR, 1966). The two covenants entered into force in 1976, after a sufficient number of countries had ratified them.\n\nIn the beginning, different views were expressed about the form the bill of rights should take. In 1948, General Assembly planned the bill to include UDHR, one Covenant and measures of implementation. The Drafting Committee decided to prepare two documents: one in the form of a declaration, which would set forth general principles or standards of human rights; the other in the form of a convention, which would define specific rights and their limitations. Accordingly, the Committee transmitted to the Commission on Human Rights draft articles of an international declaration and an international conventions on human rights. At its second session, in December 1947, the Commission decided to apply the term \"International Bill of Human Rights\" to the series of documents in preparation and established three working groups: one on the declaration, one on the convention (which it renamed \"covenant\") and one on implementation. The Commission revised the draft declaration at its third session, in May/June 1948, taking into consideration comments received from Governments. It did not have time, however, to consider the covenant or the question of implementation. The declaration was therefore submitted through the United Nations Economic and Social Council to the General Assembly, meeting in Paris.\n\nLater the draft covenant was divided in two (decided by the General Assembly in 1952), differing with both catalogue of rights and degree of obligations – for example, the ICESCR refers to the \"progressive realisation\" of the rights it contains. In 1998 it was hailed as \"A Magna Carta for all humanity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1776045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1776045", "title": "International Copyright Act of 1891", "text": "International Copyright Act of 1891\n\nThe International Copyright Act of 1891 (, March 3, 1891) is the first U.S. congressional act that extended limited protection to foreign copyright holders from select nations.\nFormally known as the \"International Copyright Act of 1891\", but more commonly referred to as the \"Chace Act\" after Sen. Jonathan Chace of Rhode Island.\n\nThe International Copyright Act of 1891 was created because many people shunned the idea of literary piracy. It was the first U.S. congressional act that offered copyright protection in the United States to citizens of countries other than the United States. The act extended limited protection to foreign copyright holders from select nations. It was also important for American creators since they were more likely to have international copyright protection in countries that were offered the same protection by the United States. The Act empowered the President to extend copyright to works of foreign nationals.\n\nThe act was passed on March 3, 1891, by the 51st Congress. The Act went into effect on July 1, 1891. On July 3, 1891, the first foreign work, a play called \"Saints and Sinners\" by British author Henry Arthur Jones, was registered under the act.\n\nDuring the time when the United States was just beginning to develop a literary tradition of its own, this nation refused to protect foreign works. As a result of this, American works were unprotected abroad and domestic publishers had to compete with each other for cheap editions of foreign works. Prior to the International Copyright Act, the first national copyright law was passed in 1790 and provided a copyright protection for 14 years, but only for authors who were citizens or residents of the United States. In order to get copyright protection in the rest of the world American authors were required to gain residency in the country in which they desired copyright protection. For example, Mark Twain obtained residency in Canada to protect his publication of \"The Prince and the Pauper\".\n\nTo protect foreign literature in the United States, British authors would have an American citizen serve as a collaborator in the publishing process, and then have the book registered in Washington, D.C. under the collaborator's name. It was not until the 1830s that the pressure to extend American copyright to foreign authors first developed. Both American and British authors and publishers joined forces and pushed for a bilateral treaty between the United States and England. Famous authors such as Charles Dickens came to the United States to show their support for international copyright. Their biggest problem were American printers that already were protected by a high tariff on imported works, and who had no wish to pay royalties to English writers or publishers.\n\nThe United States discussed international copyright with Great Britain over the years. Congress requested correspondence to this effect in 1842. There was a proposed treaty in 1853 under Millard Fillmore, and consideration of its ratification continued into an extension provided during Franklin Pierce's presidency in 1854.\n\nNonetheless, in the United States, only works published in the United States could be restricted with copyright. Authors including Mark Twain, Louisa May Alcott, Edward Eggleston, and Bill Nye wrote letters in the mid-1880s to the \"Century\" requesting international copyright. These letters to the journals had a strong effect on this issue, as did the American Copyright League that was formed in 1883. The League was a great supporter of an International Copyright Act and, at the Madison Square Theater in 1885, the League sponsored readings by American authors in aid of the League's cause.\n\nIn 1885, United States Senator Joseph Roswell Hawley introduced a bill aimed at extending copyright to foreign authors for consideration by Congress. A chief difference between the Hawley Bill and the eventual Chase Bill was Hawley's removal of publisher and book-sellers' interests in the copyright process. It was ultimately unsuccessful, though Mark Twain involved himself in the lobbying process and influenced President Grover Cleveland's thinking on the matter. Cleveland asked Congress for legislation to this effect in his State of the Union address that December.\n\nWhile the United States was refusing any protection for foreign literary works, more and more countries in Europe started adapting the principle of \"national treatment\". This principle meant that each nation that signed the treaty was obligated to protect works produced by nationals of all other treaty members on the same terms that it protects its own nationals.\n\nIn 1884, academics, writers and diplomats met in Berne, Switzerland, to begin the work to form a multilateral copyright treaty. This was based on the principle of national treatment together with minimum standards so that a member country would be free to treat the copyrighted work of its own nationals however they chose to, but when it came to the works from other treaty members it would have to obey certain minimum standards. The treaty was signed in 1886 but the United States was not one of its founding members. American representatives had attended the Bern conference only as observers and it would take another 5 years until the United States took its first step to protect foreign works.\n\nEver since the first national copyright law in 1790, the United States had required certain \"statutory formalities\" to acquire copyright protection. These formalities served as a test of an author's intention to claim protection for his or her work. The International Copyright Act of 1891 now applied these formalities to foreign publishers as well, but added an extra requirement called the \"Manufacturing Clause\".\n\nThe Manufacturing Clause required that all copies of foreign literary works should be printed from type set in the United States if they were to have American protection. This was an obvious concession to American printers, since they might otherwise have opposed the Act. When the International Copyright Act of 1891 was finally passed, foreign authors had to have their works in Washington, D.C. \"on or before the day of publication in this or any foreign country.\" This too would create a problem, but by the early 1900s British authors were granted American Copyright since it was published abroad thirty days from its deposit in Washington, D.C. This would then allow American publishers time to release an authorized edition.\n\nThe International Copyright Act of 1891 instituted important changes in copyright matters. One of the most extensive changes was that from the date the Act went into effect, all books were required to be manufactured in the United States in order to obtain American copyright. However, foreign authors had a better chance of protecting their works than before. This Act was the first step that the United States took towards an international copyright that could benefit foreign authors as well as domestic. Throughout time, the United States had been somewhat of a copyright outcast since they had not joined many international treaties or conventions. However, as the United States became a major exporter of copyrighted materials this changed. Even if there's still no such thing as an \"international copyright\" that will automatically protect an author's rights throughout the world, The International Copyright Act of 1891 was the first step to a number of international copyright treaties and conventions that the United States is now a part of (e.g. Berne Convention, Universal Copyright Convention, WIPO).\n\nThe following is a timeline of presidents granting copyright to other countries:\n\nThe Copyright Act of 1909 had its own prescriptions for extending copyright to other countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3246578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3246578", "title": "International Trade Organization", "text": "International Trade Organization\n\nThe International Trade Organization (ITO) was the proposed name for an international institution for the regulation of trade. \n\nLed by the United States in collaboration with allies, the effort to form the organization from 1945 to 1948, with the successful passing of the Havana Charter, eventually failed due to lack of approval by the US Congress. Until the creation of the World Trade Organization in 1994, international trade was managed through the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). \n\nThe Bretton Woods Conference of 1944, which established an international institution for monetary policy, recognized the need for a comparable international institution for trade to complement the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Bretton Woods was attended by representatives of finance ministries and not by representatives of trade ministries, the proposed reason why a trade agreement was not negotiated at that time.\n\nIn early December 1945, the United States invited its war-time allies to enter into negotiations to conclude a multilateral agreement for the reciprocal reduction of tariffs on trade in goods. In July 1945, the US Congress had granted President Harry S. Truman the authority to negotiate and conclude such an agreement. At the proposal of the United States, the United Nations Economic and Social Committee adopted a resolution, in February 1946, calling for a conference to draft a charter for an International Trade Organization. \n\nA Preparatory Committee was established in February 1946, and met for the first time in London in October 1946 to work on the charter of an international organization for trade; the work was continued from April to November 1947.\n\nAt the same time, the negotiations on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Geneva advanced well, and by October 1947 an agreement was reached: on October 30, 1947 eight of the twenty-three countries that had negotiated the GATT signed the \"Protocol of Provisional Application of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade\". Those eight countries were the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg.\n\nIn March 1948, the negotiations on the ITO Charter were successfully completed in Havana Charter. The Havana Charter (formally the \"Final Act of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment\") provided for the establishment of the ITO, and set out the basic rules for international trade and other international economic matters. It was signed by 56 countries on March 24, 1948. It allowed for international cooperation and rules against anti-competitive business practices.\n\nThe Charter, proposed by John Maynard Keynes, was to establish the ITO and a financial institution called the International Clearing Union (ICU), and an international currency; the bancor. The Havana Charter institutions were to stabilize trade by encouraging nations to \"net zero\", with trade surplus and trade deficit both discouraged. This negative feedback was to be accomplished by allowing nations overdraft equal to half the average value of the country's trade over the preceding five years, with interest charged on both surplus and deficit.\n\nThe Charter never came into force, in part because in 1950 the United States government announced that it would not submit the treaty to the United States Senate for ratification. While repeatedly submitted to the US Congress, the charter was never approved. The most usual argument against the new organization was that it would be involved into internal economic issues. On December 6, 1950 President Truman announced that he would no longer seek Congressional approval of the ITO Charter. Because of the American rejection of the Charter, no other state ratified the treaty. Elements of the Charter would later become part of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).\n\nIn the absence of an international organization for trade, countries turned, from the early 1950s, to the only existing multilateral international institution for trade, the \"GATT 1947\", to handle problems concerning their trade relations. Therefore, the GATT would over the years \"transform itself\" into a \"de facto\" international organization. It was contemplated that the GATT would be applied for several years until the ITO came into force. However, since the ITO was never brought into being, the GATT gradually became the focus for international governmental cooperation on trade matters.\n\nSeven rounds of negotiations occurred under GATT before the eighth round—the Uruguay Round—concluded in 1994 with the establishment of the World Trade Organization (WTO) as the GATT's replacement. The GATT principles and agreements were adopted by the WTO, which was charged with administering and extending them.\n\n\nHavana Charter\n"}
{"id": "1921749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921749", "title": "La Guardia Committee", "text": "La Guardia Committee\n\nThe LaGuardia Committee was the first in-depth study into the effects of smoking marijuana in the United States. An earlier study, the Indian Hemp Drugs Commission, was conducted by the colonial authorities in British India in 1893-94. The reports systematically contradicted claims made by the U.S. Treasury Department that smoking marijuana results in insanity, deteriorates physical and mental health, assists in criminal behavior and juvenile delinquency, is physically addictive, and is a \"gateway\" drug to more dangerous drugs.\n\nThe report was prepared by the New York Academy of Medicine, on behalf of a commission appointed in 1939 by New York Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia who was a strong opponent of the 1937 Marijuana Tax Act. Released in 1944, the report infuriated Harry Anslinger, who was campaigning against marijuana. Anslinger condemned it as unscientific.\n\nAnslinger went on an offensive against what he saw as a \"degenerate Hollywood\" that was promoting marijuana use. After high-profile arrests of actors like Robert Mitchum, Hollywood gave Anslinger full control over the script of any film that mentioned marijuana.\n\nAfter more than five years of research the members of the committee drew up a catalog of 13 salient points with the conclusions they reached.\n\n\nTherefore, according to the LaGuardia Report, the gateway drug theory is without foundation (points 7 and 9).\n\nPublished in 1944, the report offended Harry Anslinger, who branded it as \"unscientific.\" Harry Anslinger denounced Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, the New York Academy of Medicine and the doctors who had worked for more than five years on the research. Anslinger said that they should not conduct more experiments or studies on marijuana without his personal permission. Anslinger interrupted, between 1944 and 1945, each current research on derivatives of cannabis, and according to some personally commissioned the American Medical Association to prepare a position which would reflect the one of the government. \n\nThe study conducted by AMA between 1944 and 1945 on Anslinger's personal request, having as objective to disprove the statements of the LaGuardia Report, leveraged again on racism, asserting that \"of the experimental group, thirty-four men were black, and only one was white\", and \"those who smoked marijuana, became disrespectful of white soldiers and officers during military segregation\".\n\nOnly in 1972, the same institutional source that spread the series of scientifically unfounded rumors about the dangers of cannabis admitted that \"these stories were largely false\" and that \"with careful consideration of the documentation there is no confirmation of the existence of a causal relationship between marijuana use and the possible use of heroin\". Thus, it was declared that the ban on cannabis was imposed and still subsisted \"without any serious and comprehensive research had been conducted on the effects of marijuana\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46427161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46427161", "title": "Lagos State Civil Service", "text": "Lagos State Civil Service\n\nThe Lagos State Civil Service consists of employees in Lagos State government agencies other than the military. Most employees under the service are career civil servants in the Lagos state ministries, progressing based on qualifications and seniority.\nThe civil service is held by Head of Service, a senior member of the state civil service appointed by the state Governor.\n\nThe civil service is mainly organized around the state ministries, headed by a commissioner appointed by the Governor of Lagos state. The Governor's appointments are confirmed by the State House of Representatives.\nThere are 24 government ministries of Lagos State. \nIn some cases a commissioner is responsible for more than one ministry, for example Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions may be combined as Lagos State Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions and the commissioners are assisted by a Permanent Secretary, who is a senior civil servant. \nThe ministries are responsible for various parastatals(government-owned corporations) such as universities (Education) and the State Broadcasting Commission. The Lagos state ministry is coordinated by the Commissioner, assisted by a Permanent Secretary, who head the civil service departments.\n"}
{"id": "5467265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5467265", "title": "Land and liberty (slogan)", "text": "Land and liberty (slogan)\n\nLand and Liberty (, ) is an anarchist slogan. It was originally used as a name of the Russian revolutionary organization Zemlya i Volya in 1878, then by the revolutionary leaders of the Mexican Revolution; the revolution was fought over land rights, and the leaders such as Emiliano Zapata and Pancho Villa were fighting to give the land back to the natives from whom it was expropriated either by force or by some dubious manner. Without land, the peasants were at the mercy of landowners for subsistence.\n\nSimilarly, during the Russian Revolution, the main concern of the peasants was to free themselves from subservience to landowners, to get a plot of land if they had none, or to expand on their land holdings. Consequently, the Russian peasants welcomed the Russian Revolution under the banner \"Zemlya i Volya\": \"Land and Liberty\".\n\nThe slogan of \"Tierra y Libertad\" was also used during the Spanish Revolution (1936–1939). In 1995, a film covering the Spanish Civil War was released with the title \"Land and Freedom\".\n\nIn a narrow sense, the possession of land meant freedom from the landowner. And this may have been the main concern of both the Mexican and Russian peasants.\n\nIn a broader sense, the slogan can be interpreted to mean that the necessary (though not the sufficient) condition of liberty is something like possession or access to subsistence land. If possession or access to land is a necessary condition of liberty, then its deprivation results in some form of slavery: tenancy, sharecropping, wage-slavery. Access to land is only a necessary condition because even with access, the government may impose taxes to such an extent that one is not free. For example, in the Soviet Union in 1932–1933, the government was removing from the peasants their agricultural products to the extant that it produced an artificial famine which directly or indirectly killed roughly 2.582 million people only in Ukraine. (See Soviet famine of 1932–1933.) So, the possession of or access to subsistence land is a necessary, but not a sufficient, condition for liberty.\n\nIn the following passage, Friedrich Albert Lange points out the relation of the possession of land to liberty:\n\"In former times the marauding minority of mankind, by means of physical violence, compelled the working majority to render feudal services, or reduced them to a state of slavery or serfdom, or at least made them pay a tribute. Nowadays the dependence of the working classes is secured in a less direct but equally efficacious manner, viz. by means of the superior power of capital; the labourer being forced, in order to get his subsistence, to place his labour power entirely at the disposal of the capitalist. So there is a semblance of liberty; but in reality the labourer is exploited and subjected, because, all the land having been appropriated, he cannot procure his subsistence directly from nature, and, goods being produced for the market and not for the producer's own use, he cannot subsist without capital. Wages will rise above what is wanted for the necessaries of life, where the labourer is able to earn his subsistence on free land, which has not yet become private property. But wherever, in an old and totally occupied country, a body of labouring poor is employed in manufactures, the same law, which we see at work in the struggle for life throughout the organized world, will keep wages at the absolute minimum\".\n\n\"Land and Liberty\" is the title of a publication produced in Britain by the supporters of the land value taxation programme described by Henry George in his book \"Progress and Poverty\". The journal was first published towards the end of the nineteenth century, originally under the name \"Land Values\". It was given its present title just before World War I. At present, the journal is quarterly. Articles are mostly about economics and political topics, with special reference to their relationship to land tenure and taxation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "419710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419710", "title": "Languages with official status in India", "text": "Languages with official status in India\n\nThe Constitution of India designates the official language of the Government of India as Hindi written in the Devanagari script, as well as English. There is no national language as declared by the Constitution of India. Hindi is used for official purposes such as parliamentary proceedings, judiciary, communications between the Central Government and a State Government. States within India have the liberty and powers to specify their own official language(s) through legislation and therefore there are 22 officially recognized languages in India of which Hindi is the most used. The number of native Hindi speakers is about 25% of the total Indian population; however, including dialects of Hindi termed as Hindi languages, the total is around 44% of Indians, mostly accounted from the states falling under the Hindi belt. Other Indian languages are each spoken by around 10% or less of the population.\n\nStates specify their own official language(s) through legislation. The section of the Constitution of India dealing with official languages therefore includes detailed provisions which deal not just with the languages used for the official purposes of the union, but also with the languages that are to be used for the official purposes of each state and union territory in the country, and the languages that are to be used for communication between the union and the states \"inter se\".\n\nDuring the British Raj, English was used for purposes at the federal level. The Indian constitution adopted in 1950 envisaged that Hindi would be gradually phased in to replace English over a fifteen-year period, but gave Parliament the power to, by law, provide for the continued use of English even thereafter. Plans to make Hindi the sole official language of the Republic met with resistance in some parts of the country. Hindi continues to be used today, in combination with other (at the central level and in some states) State official languages at the state level.\n\nThe legal framework governing the use of languages for official purpose currently includes the Constitution, the Official Languages Act, 1963, Official Languages (Use for Official Purpose of the Union) Rules, 1976, and various state laws, as well as rules and regulations made by the central government and the states.\n\nThe Indian constitution, in 1950, declared Hindi in Devanagari script to be the official language of the union. Unless Parliament decided otherwise, the use of English for official purposes was to cease 15 years after the constitution came into effect, i.e., on 26 January 1965. The prospect of the changeover, however, led to much alarm in the non Hindi-speaking areas of India, especially Dravidian-speaking states whose languages were not related to Hindi at all. As a result, Parliament enacted the ,\n\nIn late 1964, an attempt was made to expressly provide for an end to the use of English, but it was met with protests from states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, West Bengal, Karnataka, Puducherry and Andhra Pradesh. Some of these protests also turned violent. As a result, the proposal was dropped, and the Act itself was amended in 1967 to provide that the use of English would not be ended until a resolution to that effect was passed by the legislature of every state that had not adopted Hindi as its official language, and by each house of the Indian Parliament.\n\nThe position was thus that the Union government continues to use English in addition to Hindi for its official purposes as a \"subsidiary official language,\" but is also required to prepare and execute a programme to progressively increase its use of Hindi. The exact extent to which, and the areas in which, the Union government uses Hindi and English, respectively, is determined by the provisions of the Constitution, the Official Languages Act, 1963, the Official Languages Rules, 1976, and statutory instruments made by the Department of Official Language under these laws.\n\nThe Indian constitution draws a distinction between the language to be used in Parliamentary proceedings, and the language in which laws are to be made. Parliamentary business, according to the Constitution, may be conducted in either Hindi or English. The use of English in parliamentary proceedings was to be phased out at the end of fifteen years unless Parliament chose to extend its use, which Parliament did through the Official Languages Act, 1963. In addition, the constitution permits a person who is unable to express themselves in either Hindi or English to, with the permission of the Speaker of the relevant House, address the House in their mother tongue.\n\nIn contrast, the constitution requires the authoritative text of all laws, including Parliamentary enactments and statutory instruments, to be in English, until Parliament decides otherwise. Parliament has not exercised its power to so decide, instead merely requiring that all such laws and instruments, and all bills brought before it, also be translated into Hindi, though the English text remains authoritative.\n\nThe constitution provides, and the Supreme Court of India has reiterated, that all proceedings in the Supreme Court (the country's highest court) and the High Courts shall be in English. Parliament has the power to alter this by law, but has not done so. However, in many high courts, there is, with consent from the president, allowance of the optional use of Hindi. Such proposals have been successful in the states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar.\n\nThe Union government is required by law to progressively increase the use of Hindi in its official work, which it has sought to do through \"persuasion, incentive and goodwill\".\n\nThe Official Language Act provides that the Union government shall use both Hindi and English in most administrative documents that are intended for the public. The Official Languages Rules, in contrast, provide for a higher degree of use of Hindi in communications between offices of the central government (other than offices in Tamil Nadu, to which the rules do not apply). Communications between different departments within the central government may be in either Hindi or English, although a translation into the other language must be provided if required. Communications within offices of the same department, however, must be in Hindi if the offices are in Hindi-speaking states, and in either Hindi or English otherwise with Hindi being used in proportion to the percentage of staff in the receiving office who have a working knowledge of Hindi. Notes and memos in files may be in either Hindi or English, with the Government having a duty to provide a translation into the other language if required.\n\nIn addition, every person submitting a petition for the redress of a grievance to a government officer or authority has a constitutional right to submit it in any language used in India.\n\nVarious steps have been taken by the Indian government to implement the use and familiarisation of Hindi extensively. Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha headquartered at Chennai was formed to spread Hindi in South Indian states. Regional Hindi implementation offices at Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, Mumbai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Bhopal, Delhi and Ghaziabad have been established to monitor the implementation of Hindi in Central government offices and PSUs.\n\nAnnual targets are set by the Department of Official Language regarding the amount of correspondence being carried out in Hindi. A Parliament Committee on Official Language constituted in 1976 periodically reviews the progress in the use of Hindi and submits a report to the President. The governmental body which makes policy decisions and established guidelines for promotion of Hindi is the \"Kendriya Hindi Samiti\" (est. 1967). In every city that has more than ten central Government offices, a Town Official Language Implementation Committee is established and cash awards are given to government employees who write books in Hindi. All Central government offices and PSUs are to establish Hindi Cells for implementation of Hindi in their offices.\n\nIn 2016, the Modi government announced plans to promote Hindi in government offices in Southern and Northeast India.\n\nThe Indian constitution does not specify the official languages to be used by the states for the conduct of their official functions, and leaves each state free to, through its legislature, adopt Hindi or any language used in its territory as its official language or languages. The language need not be one of those listed in the Eighth Schedule, and several states have adopted official languages which are not so listed. Examples include Kokborok in Tripura and Mizo in Mizoram.\n\nThe constitutional provisions in relation to use of the official language in legislation at the State level largely mirror those relating to the official language at the central level, with minor variations. State legislatures may conduct their business in their official language, Hindi or (for a transitional period, which the legislature can extend if it so chooses) English, and members who cannot use any of these have the same rights to their mother tongue with the Speaker's permission. The authoritative text of all laws must be in English, unless Parliament passes a law permitting a state to use another language, and if the original text of a law is in a different language, an authoritative English translation of all laws must be prepared.\n\nThe state has the right to regulate the use of its official language in public administration, and in general, neither the constitution nor any central enactment imposes any restriction on this right. However, every person submitting a petition for the redress of a grievance to an officer or authority of the state government has a constitutional right to submit it in any language used in that state, regardless of its official status.\n\nIn addition, the constitution grants the central government, acting through the President, the power to issue certain directives to the government of a state in relation to the use of minority languages for official purposes. The President may direct a State to officially recognise a language spoken in its territory for specified purposes and in specified regions, if its speakers demand it and satisfy him that a substantial proportion of the State's population desire its use. Similarly, States and local authorities are required to endeavour to provide primary education in the mother tongue for all linguistic minorities, regardless of whether their language is official in that State, and the President has the power to issue directions he deems necessary to ensure that they are provided these facilities.\n\nStates have significantly less freedom in relation to determine the language in which judicial proceedings in their respective High Courts will be conducted. The constitution gives the power to authorise the use of Hindi, or the state's official language in proceedings of the High Court to the Governor, rather than the state legislature, and requires the Governor to obtain the consent of the President of India, who in these matters acts on the advice of the Government of India. The Official Languages Act gives the Governor a similar power, subject to similar conditions, in relation to the language in which the High Court's judgments will be delivered.\n\nFour states—Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan— have been granted the right to conduct proceedings in their High Courts in their official language, which, for all of them, was Hindi. However, the only non-Hindi state to seek a similar power—Tamil Nadu, which sought the right to conduct proceedings in Tamil in its High Court—had its application rejected by the central government earlier, which said it was advised to do so by the Supreme Court. In 2006, the law ministry said that it would not object to Tamil Nadu state's desire to conduct Madras High Court proceedings in Tamil. In 2010, the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court allowed lawyers to argue cases in Tamil.\n\nList of official languages of states of India\n<section begin=Lists of official languages of states and union territories of India/>\nList of official languages of Union Territories of India\n<section end=Lists of Official Languages of States and Union Territories of India/>\n\nThe Eighth Schedule to the Indian Constitution contains a list of 22 scheduled languages. At the time the constitution was enacted, inclusion in this list meant that the language was entitled to representation on the Official Languages Commission, and that the language would be one of the bases that would be drawn upon to enrich Hindi, the official language of the Union. The list has since, however, acquired further significance. The Government of India is now under an obligation to take measures for the development of these languages, such that \"they grow rapidly in richness and become effective means of communicating modern knowledge.\" In addition, a candidate appearing in an examination conducted for public service at a higher level is entitled to use any of these languages as the medium in which he or she answers the paper.\n\nVia the 92nd Constitutional amendment 2003, four new languages – Dogri, Maithili, Santali and Bodo – were added to the 8th Schedule of the Indian Constitution.\n\nThe table below lists the 22 languages set out in the Eighth Schedule as of May 2008, together with the regions where they are used.\n\nEven though the English language is not included in the Eighth Schedule (as it is a foreign language), it is one of the official languages of the Union of India.\n<section begin=8th Schedule to the Indian constitution />\n<section end=8th Schedule to the Indian constitution />\n\nOf the 22 official languages, 15 are Indic, four are Dravidian, two are Tibeto-Burman, and one is Munda.\n\nSince 2003, a government committee has been looking into the feasibility of treating all languages in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution as \"Official Languages of the Union\".\n\nThe language in which communications between different states, or from the union government to a state or a person in a state, shall be sent is regulated by the Official Languages Act and, for states other than Tamil Nadu, by the Official Languages Rules. Communication between states who use Hindi as their official language is required to be in Hindi, whereas communication between a state whose official language is Hindi and one whose is not, is required to be in English, or, in Hindi with an accompanying English translation (unless the receiving state agrees to dispense with the translation).\n\nCommunication between the union and states which use Hindi as their official language (classified by the Official Language Rules as \"the states in Region A\"), and with persons who live in those states, is generally in Hindi, except in certain cases. Communication with a second category of states \"Region B\", which do not use Hindi as their official language but have elected to communicate with the union in Hindi (currently Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Punjab) is usually in Hindi, whilst communications sent to an individual in those states may be in either Hindi or English. Communication with all other states \"Region C\", and with people living in them, is in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41062072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41062072", "title": "Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2013", "text": "Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2013\n\nThe Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2013 () is a bill that would amend Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to require courts to impose appropriate sanctions on attorneys, law firms, or parties who file frivolous lawsuits and to require them to compensate parties injured by such conduct. The compensation would cover the attorney fees and other lawsuit-related costs that the defendant in the frivolous lawsuit had to pay. The bill would also remove the provision of Rule 11 allowing attorneys or parties who file frivolous papers to avoid party-requested sanctions by withdrawing their lawsuits before 21 days have passed. The bill was introduced in the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. On November 14, 2013 the bill passed the House, but was never passed by the Senate.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2013 would amend the sanctions provisions in Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to require the court to impose an appropriate sanction on any attorney, law firm, or party that has violated, or is responsible for the violation of, the rule with regard to representations to the court. The bill would require any sanction to compensate parties injured by the conduct in question.\n\nThe bill removes a provision that prohibits filing a motion for sanctions if the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, or denial is withdrawn or appropriately corrected within 21 days after service or within another time the court sets.\n\nThe bill also authorizes the court to impose additional sanctions, including striking the pleadings, dismissing the suit, nonmonetary directives, or penalty payments if warranted for effective deterrence.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as ordered reported by the House Committee on the Judiciary on September 11, 2013. This is a public domain source.\"\n\nH.R. 2655 would amend Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to require courts to impose appropriate sanctions on attorneys, law firms, or parties who file frivolous lawsuits and to require them to compensate parties injured by such conduct. Under current law, courts may, but are not required to, impose such sanctions.\n\nUnder the legislation, any monetary sanction imposed under Rule 11 would be paid by the parties to the suit. Thus, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that implementing the bill would result in no significant impact on the federal budget. Enacting H.R. 2655 would not affect direct spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply.\n\nH.R. 2655 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would not affect the budgets of state, local, or tribal governments.\n\nThe Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2013 was introduced on July 11, 2013 by Rep. Lamar Smith (R, TX-21). It was referred to the United States House Committee on the Judiciary and the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. The House Judiciary committee voted to report the bill on September 11, 2013 by a vote of 17-10. House Report 113-255 was released to accompany the bill on October 30, 2013. On November 8, 2013, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced that the bill would be considered during the week of November 11, 2013. The House was scheduled to work on this bill on November 14, 2013.\n\nRep. Lamar Smith argued in favor of the bill and getting rid of the 21-day safe-harbor provision, stating that it would help end lawyers filing frivolous lawsuits when they have \"everything to gain and nothing to lose\" by doing so. Smith also said that \"Lawyers can file meritless lawsuits, and defendants are faced with the choice of years of litigation, high court costs and attorneys' fees or a settlement,\" and called the practice \"legalized extortion.\"\n\nRepublicans argue in favor of the bill as being needed to help protect companies from expensive and wasteful lawsuits. Democrats argued that the bill is unnecessary since judges already have the option of impossing sanctions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7925607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7925607", "title": "Lindauer Brothers Company", "text": "Lindauer Brothers Company\n\nLindauer Brothers Company was a Chicago dealer in men's goods that went bankrupt in 1888.\n\n"}
{"id": "5612659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5612659", "title": "List of coups d'état and coup attempts", "text": "List of coups d'état and coup attempts\n\nThis is a chronological list of coups d'état and coup attempts, from ancient times to the present.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25918835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25918835", "title": "List of litigation involving the Electronic Frontier Foundation", "text": "List of litigation involving the Electronic Frontier Foundation\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation is regularly involved in litigation, the following is a list of cases that have to some degree involved the EFF\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nList of litigation involving the Wikimedia Foundation\n\nLinks taken from EFF Cases Page ( Creative Commons licensed)\n"}
{"id": "31860751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31860751", "title": "Live 4 X", "text": "Live 4 X\n\nLive 4 X is an online charitable event series launched in 2010 by Grammy winning recording artist Imogen Heap and social media philanthropist and urban entrepreneur Thomas Ermacora. Initially inspired by the 2010 Pakistan floods, each individual event is organized as a charitable initiative in response to catastrophic situation or event, such as a natural disaster, that has incurred vast devastation and suffering.\n\nBy integrating education, entertainment, and modern technology, \"Live 4 X\" events stream online in real time, with the goal of educating viewers regarding their respective charitable initiative, providing complimentary entertainment in exchange for donations to a relevant organization, and crowd-sourcing sustainable design ideas that may later be implemented in recovery efforts. Past non-profit beneficiaries have included The Red Cross, UNICEF, and Architecture for Humanity.\n\nRegarding the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami Heap stated, “I wanted to do something, but what can you? I mean, you can give money, but it doesn’t seem like enough. Music is the thing that we do, and I wanted in some way to connect that to these events.” \n\nThe \"Live 4 X\" event series is a project under the umbrella of Bubbletank, an experimental, collaborative enterprise, launched by Heap and Ermacora in 2010, and geared toward leveraging the power of social media to facilitate charitable efforts toward proactive change through the mediums of music, cyber technology, design, and film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "765762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765762", "title": "Local marketing agreement", "text": "Local marketing agreement\n\nIn North American broadcasting, a local marketing agreement (or local management agreement, abbreviated as an LMA) is a contract in which one company agrees to operate a radio or television station owned by another party. In essence, it is a sort of lease or time-buy.</P?\n\nUnder Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations, a local marketing agreement must give the company operating the station (the \"senior\" partner) under the agreemen<t control over the entire facilities of the station, including the finances, personnel and programming of the station. Its original licensee (the \"junior\" partner) still remains legally responsible for the station and its operations, such as compliance with relevant regulations regarding content. Occasionally, a \"local marketing agreement\" may refer to the sharing or contracting of only certain functions, in particular advertising sales. This may also be referred to as a time brokerage agreement (TBA), local sales agreement (LSA), management services agreement (MSA), or most commonly, a joint sales agreement (JSA) or shared services agreement (SSA). JSAs are counted toward ownership caps for television and radio stations. In Canada, local marketing agreements between domestic stations require the consent of the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), although Rogers Media has used a similar arrangement to control a U.S.-based radio station in a border market.\n\nThe increased use of sharing agreements by media companies to form consolidated, \"virtual\" duopolies became controversial between 2009 and 2014, especially arrangements where a company buys a television station's facilities and assets, but sells the license to an affiliated third-party \"shell\" corporation, who then enters into agreements with the owner of the facilities to operate the station on their behalf. Activists have argued that broadcasters were using these agreements as a loophole for the FCC's ownership regulations, that they reduce the number of local media outlets in a market through the aggregation or outright consolidation of news programming, and allow station owners to have increased leverage in the negotiation of retransmission consent with local subscription television providers. Station owners have contended that these sharing agreements allow streamlined, cost-effective operations that may be beneficial to the continued operation of lower-rated and/or financially weaker stations, especially in smaller markets.\n\nIn 2014 under chairman Tom Wheeler, the FCC began to increase its scrutiny regarding the use of such agreements—particularly joint sales—to evade its policies. On March 31, 2014, the commission voted to make joint sales agreements count as ownership if the senior partner sells 15% or more of advertising time for its partner, and to ban coordinated retransmission consent negotiations between two of the top four stations in a market. Wheeler indicated that he planned to address local marketing and shared services agreements in the future. The change in stance also prompted changes to then-proposed acquisitions by Gray Television and Sinclair Broadcast Group, who, rather than use sharing agreements to control them, moved their existing programming and network affiliations to digital subchannels of existing company-owned stations in the market, or a low-power station (which are not subject to ownership caps), and then relinquished control over the original stations by selling their licenses to third-parties, such as minority-owned broadcasters.\n\nDue to the FCC's limits on station ownership at the time (which prevented the common ownership of multiple radio stations), local marketing agreements in radio, in which a smaller station would sell its entire airtime to a third-party in time-buy, were widespread between the 1970s and early 1990s. These alliances gave larger broadcasters a way to expand their reach, and smaller broadcasters a means of obtaining a stable stream of revenue. In 1992, the FCC began allowing broadcasting companies to own multiple radio stations in a single market. Following these changes, local marketing agreements largely fell out of favor for radio, as it was now possible for broadcasters to simply buy another station outright rather than lease it – consequentially triggering a wave of mass consolidation in the radio industry. However, broadcasters still used local marketing agreements to help transition acquired stations to their new owners.\n\nThe first local marketing agreement in North American television was formed in 1991, when the Sinclair Broadcast Group purchased Fox affiliate WPGH-TV in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. As Sinclair had already owned independent station WPTT (now MyNetworkTV affiliate WPNT) in that market, which would have violated FCC rules which at the time had prohibited television station duopolies, Sinclair decided to sell the lower-rated WPTT to the station's manager Eddie Edwards, but continued to operate the station through an LMA (Sinclair eventually repurchased the station – then assigned the call letters WCWB – outright in 2000, after the Federal Communications Commission began permitting common ownership of two television stations in the same market, creating a legal duopoly).\n\nSinclair's use of local marketing agreements would lead to legal issues in 1999, when Glencairn, Ltd. (since restructured as Cunningham Broadcasting) announced that it would acquire Fox affiliate KOKH-TV in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma from Sullivan Broadcasting; Glencairn subsequently announced plans to sell five of its 11 existing stations that were operated by Sinclair under LMAs to that company outright. As the family of Sinclair Broadcast Group founder Julian Smith controlled 97% of Glencairn's stock assets (which remains the case under its Cunningham structure) and the company was to be paid with Sinclair stock in turn for the purchases, KOKH and Sinclair-owned WB affiliate KOCB (now a CW affiliate) would effectively constitute a duopoly in violation of FCC rules. The Rainbow/PUSH coalition (headed by Jesse Jackson) filed challenges against the sale with the FCC, citing concerns over a single company holding two broadcast licenses in a single market and argued that Glencairn was masquerading as a separate minority-owned company (Edwards, who served as Glencairn's president, is African American) when it was really an arm of Sinclair that the company used to gain control of the stations through LMAs. After the FCC updated its media ownership rules to allow a single company to own two television stations in the same market in August 1999, Sinclair restructured the deal to acquire KOKH outright. In 2001, the FCC issued a $40,000 fine against Sinclair for illegally controlling Glencairn.\n\nIn 1999, the FCC modified its media ownership rules to count LMAs formed after November 5, 1996 that cover more than 15% of the broadcast day toward the ownership limits for the brokering station's owner. Even still, the related joint sales and shared services agreement structures became increasingly common during the 2000s; these outsourcing agreements proliferated between 2011 and 2013, when station owners such as Sinclair and the Nexstar Broadcasting Group began expanding their portfolios by acquiring additional stations in an effort to drive scale as well as to gain leverage in retransmission consent negotiations with cable and satellite television providers.\n\nThe most common use of an LMA in television broadcasting is to create a \"virtual duopoly\", where the stations operated under the agreement are consolidated into a single entity. The operations of the stations can be streamlined for cost-effectiveness through the sharing of resources, such as facilities, advertising sales, personnel and programming. Many broadcasters that engage in the practice believe that such agreements are beneficial to the survival of television stations – especially in smaller markets, where the overall audience reach is considerably less than that of markets that are centered upon densely populated metropolitan areas, and the cost savings achieved through the consolidation of resources and staff may be necessary to fund a station's continued operation.\n\nSharing agreements may also be used as a loophole to control television stations in situations where it is legally impossible to own them outright. For instance, FCC regulations only allowed a single company to own more than one full-powered television station in a given market if there are at least eight distinct station owners, and also prohibits the ownership of two or more of the four highest-rated stations (based on total day viewership) in a market. An LMA or similar agreement does not affect the ownership of the station's license, meaning that they do not require the approval of the FCC to establish, and the two stations are still legally considered separate operations from a licensing standpoint. Both Tribune Media and the Gannett Company were required to use shared services agreements as a similar loophole to take control of certain stations in their respective 2013 purchases of Local TV and Belo, as they did not have exemptions to the FCC's newspaper cross-ownership restrictions in the affected markets. Both companies have since spun out their publishing arms as independent companies; the Tribune Publishing Company and Gannett Company. Tegna, who holds the former Gannett's broadcasting and digital media properties, re-acquired the licenses for most of the affected stations following the split. On November 16, 2017 under the Trump administration, the FCC voted in favor of removing the requirement for a market to still have eight distinct station owners in order to allow duopolies, but the prohibition of owning two of the top four stations in a market remains.\n\nBroadcasters could also collect carriage fees for the stations they operate under sharing agreements on behalf of their owner, often bundling its carriage agreements with those of stations they own outright. This could, especially in LMAs between two stations affiliated with the \"major\" networks, allow the broadcaster to charge higher fees for retransmission consent to television providers for carrying the stations, which could result in smaller cable companies not being able to afford the higher fees imposed. Cable television providers advocated barring sharing agreements between television stations for this particular reason. In the United States, the FCC no longer allows broadcasters to collude with one another in negotiating retransmission consent fees.\n\nAlthough the majority of LMAs involve the outsourcing of one television station's operations to another, occasionally, a company may operate a station under an LMA, JSA or SSA even if it does not already own a station in that market. One example occurred in December 2013, when the Louisiana Media Company (owned by New Orleans Saints and New Orleans Hornets owner Tom Benson) entered into a shared services agreement with Raycom Media to run the former company's Fox affiliate in New Orleans, Louisiana, WVUE-DT; while Louisiana Media Company retained the station's ownership and license, other assets were assumed by Raycom, which owns stations in markets adjacent to New Orleans (including Baton Rouge, Jackson, Biloxi, Lake Charles and Shreveport) but not within New Orleans itself. Benson had received offers from Raycom and others to buy the station, but was not prepared to sell WVUE outright. On April 4, 2017, Raycom acquired the station for $51.8 million.\n\nLMAs can also allow companies to control foreign stations from outside of their respective country; Canadian media company Rogers Media uses a joint sales agreement to operate Cape Vincent, New York radio station WLYK as a station targeting the nearby Canadian market of Kingston, Ontario, where it owns CKXC-FM and CIKR-FM. Rogers owns a 47% stake in WLYK's licensee, Border International Broadcasting.\n\nSimilarly, Entravision Communications Corporation controls XHDTV-TDT, a Tijuana, Mexico-based station owned by Televisora Alco, which operates as an English-language station serving the border market of San Diego.\n\n Public interest organizations have disapproved of the use of LMAs for virtual duopolies that circumvent the FCC's rules due to their effects on the broadcasting industry, particularly the results of consolidation through the irregular use of LMAs. In markets where duopolies are not legally possible, a company may elect to form one by purchasing a station's \"non-license\" assets (such as their physical facilities, programming rights, and other intellectual property), and selling the license itself to a third-party \"sidecar\" company (which is often affiliated with the purchaser), which in turn, enters into an LMA or a similar agreement with the senior partner. The FCC only recognizes ownership of television stations by the ownership of their license and facility ID, and not by the ownership of these \"non-license\" assets; this means that the senior partner becomes the \"de facto\" owner and operator of the station, but the sidecar is still the legal owner. Although the FCC determines a sidecar firm to be an independent entity from the company using it to outsource station operations for licensing purposes, the Securities and Exchange Commission does not make such a designation, requiring reports on sidecars to be included in a broadcaster's financial statements.\n\nBoth Sinclair and Nexstar became infamous for their frequent use of sidecars as part of their expansion and consolidation tactics, partnering with companies like Cunningham Broadcasting, Deerfield Media, Mission Broadcasting, and even each other in the case of a virtual duopoly in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania between Sinclair-owned CBS affiliate WHP-TV and Nexstar-owned CW affiliate WLYH-TV, and a former virtual duopoly in Rochester, New York between Nexstar-owned CBS affiliate WROC-TV and Sinclair-owned Fox affiliate WUHF (in the wake of Sinclair and Deerfield's purchase of ABC affiliate WHAM-TV, this particular arrangement ended in January 2014).\n\nWhile not to the same, wide extent as Sinclair and Nexstar, some broadcasters have similar business relationships with specific sidecar companies as partners for these agreements:\n\nThe stations partnered through a sharing agreement may also consolidate their programming operations: local newscasts on the junior partner in the LMA, if it operated a separate news department before the LMA's formation, may be rescheduled or scaled back to prevent direct competition with newscasts airing on the station acting as the senior partner (the latter aspect is less common with LMAs involving only stations affiliated with one of the three largest broadcast television networks). The stations may share news-gathering resources, but maintain separate news telecasts that are differentiated by their on-air presentation, anchors, and overall format, with varying degrees of autonomy; in these cases, a seemingly separate newscast on the brokered station in the duopoly may ultimately consist of repackaged news content from the other station. Alternatively, the stations may consolidate their news programming under a single joint brand.\n\nRedundant staff members are often laid off as part of the consolidation process, and the sharing of news content reduces the number of unique editorial voices in the market. This in particular is one of the caveats of pushes to ban outsourcing agreements by media consolidation critics, who also suggest that LMAs result in a decreased amount of local news coverage on the brokered station.\n\nDepending on how the outsourcing agreement is structured, as well as how the brokered station is programmed, how the stations are consolidated and the amount of news programming featured on the brokered station may vary, for example:\n\nIn February 2001, Clear Channel Communications subsidiary Citicasters was fined $25,000 for its use of time brokerage agreements and litigation for unlawfully controlling Youngstown, Ohio area radio station WBTJ (101.9 FM, now WYLR); the company had also been the target of complaints for using KFJO (FM) to rebroadcast KSJO after it had nominally sold KFJO to minority-owned interests.\n\nIn 2009, the Media Council of Hawaii complained to the FCC about Raycom's \"Hawaii News Now\" operation, stating that it would \"directly reduce the diversity of local voices in a community by replacing independent newscasts on the brokered station with those of the brokering station.\" In response, the FCC stated it would begin to investigate into the matter.\n\nIn 2011, after temporarily losing its Fox affiliation for WFFT-TV to a subchannel of WISE-TV due to a reverse compensation dispute, Nexstar (ironically, given its use of similar practices in other markets) filed an antitrust lawsuit against the station's managing partner, Granite Broadcasting, arguing that it had built a monopoly on local advertising sales by having effective control of the outlets for five major networks (ABC and MyNetworkTV on WPTA, and NBC, Fox, and The CW on WISE-TV; owned by Malara Broadcast Group and operated under agreements by Granite). The lawsuit was settled in February 2013 via mutual agreement, after which the Fox affiliation was given back to WFFT.\n\nGannett Company's 2013 acquisition of Belo was opposed by organizations such as the American Cable Association and Free Press, due to Gannett's plans to use LMAs and two shell companies owned by former Belo and Fisher Communications executives (respectively, Sander Media and Tucker Operating Co.) to dodge FCC newspaper cross-ownership restrictions in Louisville, Phoenix, Portland, Oregon and Tucson. Although Gannett contended that the arrangements were legal, Free Press president Craig Aaron stated that \"the FCC shouldn't let Gannett break the rules. Media consolidation results in fewer journalists in the newsroom and fewer opinions on the airwaves. Concentrating media outlets in the hands of just a few companies benefits only the companies themselves.\" The deal would have given Gannett a virtual triopoly in Phoenix, consisting of its NBC station KPNX, independent station KTVK and CW affiliate KASW. In Tucson, Fox affiliate KMSB and MyNetworkTV affiliate KTTU were already operated by Raycom Media's CBS affiliate KOLD-TV under a shared services agreement established under Belo ownership, but Gannett would still handle advertising sales for the stations.\n\nIn December 2013, the U.S. Department of Justice blocked Gannett from using an agreement with Sander Media to operate CBS affiliate KMOV in St. Louis alongside its own NBC station KSDK, and ordered Gannett to sell KMOV. Even though Gannett planned to operate KMOV separately from KSDK, the Department ruled the agreement to be a violation of antitrust law, as it would reduce competition for advertising sales. Following the closure of the Belo purchase, Meredith Corporation announced a deal to purchase KMOV, along with KTVK and KASW. As Meredith would have a duopoly between KTVK and its Phoenix CBS affiliate KPHO-TV, KASW was to be sold to SagamoreHill Broadcasting and operated by Meredith under an LMA. As a result of the FCC's scrutiny on any new station sharing agreements, on October 23, 2014, Meredith would backtrack on this plan and instead sell KASW to the Nexstar Broadcasting Group, which would operate the station independently of KTVK and KPHO.\n\nFollowing Gannett's split into independent broadcasting and publishing companies, Tegna, Inc.—the owner of Gannett's stations following the split, bought back the licenses to the Sander Media stations, placing them back under its full control.\n\nAs part of its planned acquisition of Allbritton Communications, Sinclair originally planned to sell its existing stations in three markets – Charleston, South Carolina, Birmingham, Alabama and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania – where Allbritton already owned stations, but continue to operate them under local marketing agreements. WABM and WTTO in Birmingham and WHP-TV in Harrisburg were to be sold to Deerfield Media, and WMMP in Charleston was to be sold to Howard Stirk Holdings – a broadcasting company owned by conservative pundit Armstrong Williams. Howard Stirk Holdings was also used as a sidecar for two conflicting stations in Sinclair's earlier acquisition of Barrington Broadcasting.\n\nIn December 2013, FCC Video Division Chief Barbara Kreisman sent a letter demanding information from the Sinclair Broadcast Group on the financial aspects of its \"sidecar\" operations, and warned that in the three aforementioned markets, \"the proposed transactions would result in the elimination of the grandfathered status of certain local marketing agreements and thus cause the transactions to violate our local TV ownership rules.\" It was asserted that the deal might only be legal if the affected stations were operated under shared services agreements. Sinclair restructured the deal in March 2014, choosing to sell WHP-TV, WMMP and WABM, and terminate an SSA with the Cunningham-owned Fox affiliate WTAT in Charleston to acquire the Allbritton-owned stations in those markets (WCIV, WHTM-TV and WBMA-LD, while also creating a new duopoly between the ABC and CW affiliates in Birmingham), as well as foregoing any operational or financial agreements with the buyers of the stations being sold to other parties.\n\nIn May 2014, Sinclair disclosed in an FCC filling that it was unable to find buyers for the three affected stations, requiring changes to its transaction. In Harrisburg, Sinclair chose to retain WHP-TV, and divest WHTM to Media General. However, in Charleston and Birmingham, the company proposed to shut down stations entirely (rather than selling them to other buyers that would also handle their operational responsibilities) so it could maintain legal duopolies; surrendering the licenses for WCIV and the full-powered repeaters of WBMA-LD (WJSU and WCFT), and moving their ABC programming to Sinclair's existing stations WMMP and WABM respectively – which would shift their existing MyNetworkTV programming to digital subchannels. After nearly a year of delays, Sinclair's deal to acquire Allbritton was approved by the FCC on July 24, 2014.\n\nIn response to criticism of the virtual duopolies and sharing agreements, the FCC began to consider potential changes to address these loopholes. In March 2013, the Commission first tabled a proposal that would make joint sales agreements count the same as ownership.\n\nIn January 2014 town hall meeting, FCC chairman Tom Wheeler disclosed that he planned to place more scrutiny on the use of LMA-style agreements and shell companies, stating that \"there were a couple of references in a couple of recent decisions in which we've said that we're going to do things differently going forward on what were called these shell corporations.\" Later that month, it was reported that the FCC had placed all pending acquisitions involving the use of shell companies on hold, so the Commission could discuss changes to its policies. Among the deals affected by this decision included the aforementioned Sinclair/Allbritton purchase.\n\nOn March 6, 2014, the FCC announced that it would hold a vote on March 31 on a proposal to ban joint sales agreements involving television stations outright, making them attributable to FCC ownership limits if the senior partner sells 15% or more of advertising time of a competing junior partner station in the JSA; the ban applies to both existing sharing agreements under such a structure as well as pending station transactions that include a JSA. Station owners would be given a two-year grace period to unwind or modify joint sales agreements in violation of the policy; coordinated retransmission consent negotiations between two of the four highest-rated stations in a single market would also be barred under the proposal. Wheeler also proposed an expedited process to review joint sales agreements on a case-by-case basis, granting a waiver of the rules if a broadcaster can prove a particular joint sales agreement arrangement serves the public interest.\n\nOn March 12, 2014, the FCC Media Bureau released a notice that it would further analyze television station transactions that include sharing agreements, particularly those that include a purchase option that \"may counter any incentive the licensee has to increase the value of the station, since the licensee may be unlikely to realize that increased value.\" Under the new provisions, broadcasters must demonstrate in their transaction applications as to how such deals would serve the public interest. The National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) – which, along with station groups such as Sinclair Broadcast Group, have disapproved of the proposal to ban JSAs – presented a compromise proposal, in which the brokered licensee in a sharing agreement would retain control over at least 85 percent of the station's programming, maintain at least 70 percent of ad sales revenue and \"maintain at least 20 percent of station value in the license itself\". FCC commissioner Ajit Pai, and Gordon Smith, president of the NAB, were also opposed to the new rules on joint sales agreements, believing that they would discourage the ownership of television stations by minority-owned companies. Tom Wheeler, however, proposed the restrictions in the hopes of encouraging more women and minorities to own stations, due to the ongoing consolidation in the television industry through company mergers and sharing agreements.\n\nOn March 31, 2014, the FCC voted 3–2 to approve the proposed ban on joint sales agreements and voted 5–0 to approve the proposed ban on coordinated retransmission consent negotiations between two of the four highest-rated stations within a given market; the JSA ban went into effect on June 19, 2014. Under the restrictions, the FCC would rule on waivers to maintain select existing JSAs within 90 days of the application's filing. The FCC also began a request for comment on policies to address other agreements, such as shared services agreements. The prohibition on television JSAs had been proposed as early as 2004, a year after the FCC voted to treat JSAs between radio stations as duopolies. Despite this fact, broadcasting companies criticized the ban, accusing the Commission of using it as a move to encourage participation in a spectrum incentive auction then set to occur in 2015, and stating that the ban would place them at a disadvantage during retransmission consent negotiations with pay television providers.\n\nOn December 19, 2015, as a rider to the federal budget, the grace period for unwinding or modifying existing JSAs was extended to 10 years. On May 25, 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit struck down the restrictions on joint sales agreements, ruling that the FCC cannot manipulate its ownership rules without \"[in] the previous four years, [fulfilling] its obligation to review [the] rule and determine whether it is in the public interest\". On November 16, 2017 under the Trump administration, the FCC voted in favor of no longer having JSAs attributable to ownership.\n\nThe increased scrutiny being imposed by the FCC regarding local marketing, shared services, and joint sales agreements have led to more drastic measures by broadcasting companies attempting to use them in acquisitions; in 2014, two broadcasting companies declared intents to shut acquired stations down entirely and consolidate their programming onto existing stations through multicasting, rather than attempting to use sidecars and sharing agreements or selling them to other parties that would assume full responsibility of their day-to-day operations.\n\nIn May 2014, Sinclair informed the FCC that it was unable to find buyers for WABM or WMMP – the company's MyNetworkTV stations in Birmingham, Alabama and Charleston, South Carolina that it planned to sell in its purchase of Allbritton Communications. In Birmingham, the company proposed surrendering the licenses of WCFT-TV and WJSU-TV – the two full-powered satellites of ABC affiliate WBMA-LD, converting WABM into a full-powered satellite of WBMA-LD – and moving its existing MyNetworkTV programming to a digital subchannel of WABM (although the WBMA-LD simulcast was placed on WABM's subchannel instead while MyNetworkTV programming was retained on its main channel). Similarly, in Charleston, Sinclair planned to surrender WCIV's license and move its ABC affiliation and programming to WMMP. In both cases, Sinclair believed that its own stations had superior technical facilities than those of the stations it intends to surrender. Sinclair was able to retain WBMA-LD in any event as the FCC does not impose any ownership limits on low-power stations.\n\nOn June 13, 2014, Gray Television announced that it would shutter six stations and consolidate existing programming onto subchannels of Gray-owned stations in their respective market. Unlike Sinclair, however, Gray stated that it would sell the licenses of the shuttered stations to minority-owned broadcasters in collaboration with the Minority Media and Telecommunications Council – under the condition that they would operate them independently from other stations in the market, and without the use of any sharing agreements. All six of the stations were owned by companies other than Gray, but their non-license assets are either owned by Gray, or were operated by stations now owned by Gray under agreements. Gray would operate the affected stations under LMAs until the sales and consolidation are complete. Aside from one, most of the stations involved in these changes were related to Gray's acquisition of stations from Hoak Media. Three of these stations were immediately shut down the same day, while the remainder remained operated by Gray until the sales were completed. Gray announced buyers for the stations on August 27, 2014.\n\nThe six stations affected by Gray's move included:\n\nFollowing the approval of Sinclair's purchase of Allbritton, commissioner Ajit Pai further criticized the FCC's new policies and its endorsement of Sinclair's proposal to shut down stations to comply with them. Describing the three Allbritton stations as being \"victims\" of the \"crackdown\" against joint sales agreements, he stated regarding WCIV that \"apparently the Commission believes that it is better for that station to go out of business than for Howard Stirk Holdings to own the station and participate in a joint sales agreement with Sinclair. I strongly disagree. And so too, I'll bet, would consumers in Charleston.\" In September 2014, Sinclair backtracked on its original plans, and reached deals to sell WCIV, WCFT and WJSU's license assets to Howard Stirk Holdings for $50,000 each and lease them studio space, pending FCC approval. Unlike Howard Stirk Holdings' other stations, they are operated and programmed independently, and Sinclair did not enter into any agreements to operate the stations on HSH's behalf.\n\nIn Quincy Newspapers' acquisition of Granite Broadcasting's remaining stations, the acquisition was briefly re-structured to have Malara Broadcast Group—which served as a virtual duopoly partner for Granite with WISE-TV (NBC) Fort Wayne and KDLH-TV Duluth (CBS), retain the stations and their current agreements with WPTA and KBJR-TV in lieu of having them sold to SagamoreHill Broadcasting. The acquisition was restructured in July 2015 to, again, have SagamoreHill Broadcasting acquire the two stations, but have their current SSAs wound down within nine months. Following the end of the SSA, the two stations retained The CW as independently-run stations, with their remaining affiliations moved to subchannels of KBJR and WPTA. Quincy similarly wound down an SSA in Peoria, Illinois with Sinclair-owned WHOI by trading its South Bend Fox affiliation (previously held by WSJV-TV) to Sinclair (where it moved to a subchannel of WSBT-TV), in exchange for WHOI's ABC and CW affiliations, which moved to subchannels of WEEK-TV.\n\nIn February 2016, Gray Television acquired Schurz Communications' stations, including Augusta, Georgia's WAGT. As Gray could not own both WAGT and its existing CBS affiliate WRDW-TV as a legal duopoly, Gray proposed the sale of WAGT's broadcast spectrum during the incentive auction, and for WAGT to go silent upon completion of the deal so the company would not be running more than one of the top four stations in the market. Gray also requested special temporary authority for WAGT's signal to be replaced on its existing technical facilities and UHF channel 30 by the co-owned low-power station, WRDW-CD (low-power stations are not subject to ownership caps or the duopoly rule).\n\nThe FCC, however, required that Gray continue to operate WAGT as a separate station through the end of the auction, and not enter into any joint sales agreements. Upon the closure of the sale, Gray unwound the shared services and joint sales agreements that Schurz had established with WJBF-TV and Media General, and replaced its previous news programs with simulcasts from WRDW. Gray also accused WJBF of \"[refusing] to agree to a smooth transition of personnel [from WAGT]\", as WAGT's employees fall under the employment of Media General due to the SSA.\n\nOn February 26, 2016, Media General obtained a preliminary injunction against Gray for violating the SSA and JSA, which required that Gray return control of WAGT to Media General, and forbade Gray from selling WAGT in the spectrum incentive auction. The company accused Gray of using the spectrum auction and sale of the station to exit the agreements illegitimately, as they were to last through 2020, and apply to any future owner of WAGT. Gray attempted to block the injunction by arguing that its actions were required in order to comply with the FCC's prohibition of joint sales agreements, but was denied. Media General took back control of WAGT on March 7, 2016.\n\nOn March 10, 2016, FCC Deputy General Counsel David Gossett announced that the Commission would investigate Media General's actions as possibly being in violation of Section 310(d) of the Communications Act. Gossett argued that by legally blocking Gray's participation in the spectrum auction, Media General had \"[sought] injunctive relief that interferes with a licensee's ultimate control of a station\". He also stated that the FCC could consider a license revocation hearing against Media General under Section 312 of the Communications Act. On March 23, 2016, the Supreme Court of Georgia struck down the injunction without addressing the litigation, and Gray took back control of WAGT. On July 13, 2016, Media General was issued a $700,000 fine by the FCC. WAGT's spectrum sold for $40,763,036.\n\nIn a 2005 Canadian dispute, Rogers Media and Newcap Broadcasting maintained a joint sales agreement pertaining to CHNO-FM in Sudbury, Ontario, but community interests and the lobby group Friends of Canadian Broadcasting presented substantial evidence to the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission that in practice, the agreement was a \"de facto\" LMA, going significantly beyond advertising sales into program production and news-gathering. LMAs in Canada cannot be implemented without the CRTC's approval, and in early 2005, the CRTC ordered the agreement to cease.\n\nIn 2008, the Filipino Associated Broadcasting Company leased its airtime to the Malaysian broadcaster Media Prima (through the local subsidiary MPB Primedia) similar to an LMA – with MPB Primedia providing entertainment programming, and ABC handling news programming and operations. Soon afterward, ABC and Media Prima were sued by rival media company GMA for attempting to use the partnership to skirt laws requiring domestic ownership of broadcasters. In response, ABC's media relations head Pat Marcelo-Magbanua reiterated that the subsidiary was a Filipino company which was self-registered and Filipino-run. The concerns became moot in 2010, when Media Prima announced it would divest its ownership in the network to PLDT's broadcasting subsidiary MediaQuest Holdings.\n\n"}
{"id": "6194156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6194156", "title": "Nicky Kelly", "text": "Nicky Kelly\n\nEamonn Noel Kelly (born 9 January 1951), known as Nicky Kelly, is an Irish politician from Arklow in County Wicklow. He was born Edward Noel Kelly from Graiguenamanagh, County Kilkenny. A member of Official Sinn Féin, later on he left it to join the new Irish Republican Socialist Party in 1974.\n\nIn the 1980s Kelly achieved fame throughout Ireland after he had been sentenced, in 1978, to 12 years in prison for his alleged part in the Sallins Train Robbery. The ensuing campaign to release him became a symbol of the 1980s with 'Free Nicky Kelly' graffiti posted throughout the country. The evidence of torture committed against him and his two co-accused, Osgur Breatnach and Brian McNally, galvanized a campaign for his release. There was a dedication to him in the 1983 Planxty album, \"Words & Music\".\n\nThe future Workers' Party TD, Pat McCartan acted as his solicitor at this time, despite being on opposite sides in the Official Sinn Féin/IRSP split.\n\nIn 1984 Kelly was eventually released on \"humanitarian grounds\". He received a presidential pardon in 1992, along with over £1 million as compensation following campaigns by Amnesty and the ICCL.\n\nThe events of Kelly's arrest and trial(s) were the subject of an edition of the RTÉ documentary series Scannal, broadcast 22 September 2014.\n\nKelly was elected to Arklow Town Council in 1991 and for Wicklow County Council in 1999. In 2001 he joined the Labour party.\n\nIn 2008 he was elected mayor of Arklow.\n\nHe stood unsuccessfully as a Labour party candidate for the Wicklow constituency at the 2002 general election where he was beaten to the final seat by Mildred Fox by 19 votes, and in the 2007 general election, where his first-preference vote declined from 12% in 2002 to 6%. In early 2011, he left the Labour Party over a dispute about candidate selection at the party's convention. Despite rumours that he was intending on joining Sinn Féin or the United Left Alliance he stood at the 2011 general election as an independent candidate in the Wicklow constituency. He was not elected getting only 0.7% of the first-preference vote.\n\nHe lost his seat at the 2014 local elections.\n"}
{"id": "7173858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7173858", "title": "Orphaned technology", "text": "Orphaned technology\n\nOrphaned technology is a descriptive term for computer products, programs, and platforms that have been abandoned by their original developers. Orphaned technology refers to software, such as abandonware and antique software, but also to computer hardware and practices. In computer software standards and documentation, deprecation is the gradual phasing-out of a software or programming language feature, while orphaning usually connotes a sudden discontinuation, usually for business-related reasons, of a product with an active user base.\n\nFor users of technologies that have been withdrawn from the market, there is a choice between maintaining their software support environments in some form of emulation, or switching to other supported products, possibly losing capabilities unique to their original solution.\nSome well-known examples of orphaned technology include:\n\nSymbolics Inc's operating systems, Genera and OpenGenera, were twice orphaned, as they were ported from LISP machines to computers using the Alpha 64-bit CPU.\n\nUser groups often exist for specific orphaned technologies, such as The Hong Kong Newton User Group, Symbolics Lisp [Machines] Users' Group (now known as the Association of Lisp Users), and Newton Reference. The Save Sibelius group sprang into existence because Sibelius (scorewriter) users feared the application would be orphaned after its owners Avid Tech fired most of the development team, who were thereafter hired by Steinberg to develop the competing product, Dorico.\n\n"}
{"id": "738084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=738084", "title": "Parliamentary privilege", "text": "Parliamentary privilege\n\nParliamentary privilege is a legal immunity enjoyed by members of certain legislatures, in which legislators are granted protection against civil or criminal liability for actions done or statements made in the course of their legislative duties. It is common in countries whose constitutions are based on the Westminster system.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it allows members of the House of Lords and House of Commons to speak freely during ordinary parliamentary proceedings without fear of legal action on the grounds of slander, contempt of court or breaching the Official Secrets Act. It also means that members of Parliament cannot be arrested on civil matters for statements made or acts undertaken as an MP within the grounds of the Palace of Westminster, on the condition that such statements or acts occur as part of a \"proceeding in Parliament\"—for example, as a question to the Prime Minister in the House of Commons. This allows Members to raise questions or debate issues which could slander an individual, interfere with an ongoing court case or threaten to reveal state secrets, such as in the Zircon affair or several cases mentioned by the Labour MP Tam Dalyell.\n\nThere is no immunity from arrest on criminal grounds, nor does the civil privilege entirely extend to the devolved administrations in Scotland or Wales. A consequence of the privilege of free speech is that legislators in Westminster systems are forbidden by conventions of their House from uttering certain words, or implying that another member is lying. (See unparliamentary language.)\n\nThe rights and privileges of members are overseen by the powerful Committee on Standards and Privileges. If a member of the House is in breach of the rules then he/she can be suspended or even expelled from the House. Such past breaches have included giving false evidence before a committee of the House and the taking of bribes by members.\n\nSimilar rights apply in other Westminster system countries such as Canada and Australia. In the United States, the Speech or Debate Clause in Article One of the United States Constitution provides for a similar privilege, and many state constitutions provide similar clauses for their state legislatures.\n\nParliamentary privilege is controversial because of its potential for abuse; a member can use privilege to make damaging allegations that would ordinarily be discouraged by defamation laws, whether or not those allegations have a strong foundation. A member could, even more seriously, undermine national security and/or the safety of an ongoing military or covert operation or undermine relations with a foreign state by releasing sensitive military or diplomatic information.\n\nThe ancient and undoubted rights and privileges of the Commons are claimed by the Speaker at the beginning of each new Parliament. The privileges are only codified in \"Erskine May's Parliamentary Practice\" and the House itself is the only judge of its own privileges. Most of those specifically claimed are practically obsolete, but others remain very real:\n\n\nPrivileges not specifically mentioned:\n\n\nThere is an absolute common law privilege for papers circulated among MPs by order of the House (\"Lake v. King\" (1667) 1 Saunders 131). This is extended to all papers published under the House's authority, and to correct copies by the Parliamentary Papers Act 1840. The Act also extends qualified privilege to extracts.\n\nIn addition to applying to members' speech within the chamber, parliamentary privilege also applies to select committees. Written and oral evidence given to, and published by these committees is also subject to the same absolute privilege as parliamentary papers. This means that any evidence given by a witness to a select committee may not be used against them or any other person in a court of law, whether for civil or criminal proceedings. This privilege only applies, however, if the committee has formally accepted it as evidence and does not apply to materials published before they were given to the committee.\n\nIn Canada, the Senate and House of Commons and provincial legislative assemblies follow the definition of parliamentary privilege offered by the British parliamentary authority, \"Erskine May's Treatise on The Law, Privileges, Proceedings and Usage of Parliament\", which defines parliamentary privilege as \"the sum of the peculiar rights enjoyed by each House collectively as a constituent part of the High Court of Parliament, and by Members of each house individually, without which they could not discharge their function... the privileges of Parliament are rights which are absolutely necessary for the due execution of its powers. They are enjoyed by individual Members, because the House cannot perform its functions without unimpeded use of the service of its Members, and by each House for the protection of its members and the vindication of its own authority and dignity.\" Parliamentary privilege can therefore be claimed by Members individually or by the House collectively.\n\nThe rule for when parliamentary privilege applies is that it cannot exceed the powers, privileges and immunities of the imperial parliament as it stood in 1867, when the first constitution was written.\n\nIndividual parliamentary privileges include:\n\nCollective parliamentary privileges include:\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada has previously dealt with the question of parliamentary privilege in \"New Brunswick Broadcasting Co. v. Nova Scotia (Speaker of the House of Assembly)\". In that case, the Court made these observations about parliamentary privilege:\n\n\"\"Privilege\" in this context denotes the legal exemption from some duty, burden, attendance or liability to which others are subject. It has long been accepted that in order to perform their functions, legislative bodies require certain privileges relating to the conduct of their business. It has also long been accepted that these privileges must be held absolutely and constitutionally if they are to be effective; the legislative branch of our government must enjoy a certain autonomy which even the Crown and the courts cannot touch.\n\"The privileges attaching to colonial legislatures arose from common law. Modelled on the British Parliament, they were deemed to possess such powers and authority as are necessarily incidental to their proper functioning. These privileges were governed by the principle of necessity rather than by historical incident, and thus may not exactly replicate the powers and privileges found in the United Kingdom.\"\n\nRecent cases of parliamentary privilege in Canada adjudicated by the courts include:\n\nIn 1904, the Parliament of Western Australia imprisoned John Drayton for three weeks for a breach of parliamentary privilege.\n\nIn 1955, a newspaper proprietor Raymond Fitzpatrick and his editor Frank Browne were jailed by the Australian House of Representatives for three months for what the House considered a gross breach of parliamentary privilege. The public and most commentators, then and since, felt the punishment far outweighed the crime.\n\nHelen Suzman used parliamentary privilege in her anti-apartheid campaigning. Helen Suzman reported during a 1994 interview that she was able to get around state of emergency rules applied against press reporting of violence in the country by asking questions in parliament about the subjects that the press were forbidden from talking about. South African legislation allowed anything said in parliament to be published in spite of emergency legislation. She commented on the hypocrisy of anti-apartheid campaigners criticising her for fighting apartheid from the inside in this way, yet publishing information revealed by her by means of parliamentary privilege.\n\nThis privilege was considered in the South Australian Industrial Relations Court in the case of Kosmas v Legislative Council (SA) and Others [2007] SAIRC 86. The Court found that employment statutes apply to the Parliament and therefore employees can seek judicial relief for matters such as unfair dismissal or workers compensation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29963639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29963639", "title": "Pearl Rating System (Abu Dhabi)", "text": "Pearl Rating System (Abu Dhabi)\n\nThe Pearl Rating System is the green building rating system developed by the Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council as part of their sustainable development initiative, Estidama. The system can be applied to communities, buildings and villas, with different requirements for each.\n\nThe pearl rating system is divided into Buildings, villa, and community. Each with the scale of 1 to 5 pearl.\nSimilar to LEED, the Pearl Rating System has various levels of certification. ranging from one to five pearls. For all new development projects within the emirate of Abu Dhabi, a minimum certification of one pearl is required (two pearls for government buildings). This certification requirement was mandated by the Executive Council of Abu Dhabi and went into effect Autumn 2010.\n\nThere are three stages of certification associated with the Pearl Rating System. The first stage is the Pearl Design Rating, success of which is tied to the building permit. The second stage is the Pearl Construction Rating, success of which is tied to the certificate of completion. The third, and yet to be developed stage, is the Pearl Operations Rating.\n\nTraining seminars of various lengths and technical depths are available for all of the Pearl Rating Systems. Training seminars are currently being delivered by the WSP Group and Oger International on behalf of the Urban Planning Council, Abu Dhabi.\n\nIndividuals interested in working on Pearl Rated projects should become Pearl Qualified Professionals (PQPs); at least one PQP is required per project planned for development within the emirate of Abu Dhabi. The PQP test was developed by Prometric and is administered at the CERT center in Abu Dhabi and the AMIDEAST testing center in Dubai.\n\nBased on review by Abu Dhabi’s Urban Planning Council (UPC), up to five pearls can be awarded. One pearl is mandatory for all developments and is based on the building code. As per Information Bulletins No. 1 dated 6 December 2010 all Abu Dhabi government projects are required to achieve two pearls. Two pearls include all the mandatory requirements as well as additional optional credits.\n\nTo date the only projects to achieve three pearls include the Abu Dhabi Midfield Terminable Building and ten unspecified Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC) schools.\n"}
{"id": "24296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24296", "title": "Peine forte et dure", "text": "Peine forte et dure\n\nMany defendants charged with capital offences would refuse to plead in order to avoid forfeiture of property. If the defendant pleaded either guilty or not guilty and was executed, their heirs would inherit nothing, their property escheating to the Crown. If they refused to plead their heirs would inherit their estate, even if they died in the process.\n\nThe common law courts originally took a very limited view of their own jurisdiction. They considered themselves to lack jurisdiction over a defendant until he had voluntarily submitted to it by entering a plea seeking judgment from the court. Obviously, a criminal justice system that could punish only those who had volunteered for possible punishment was unworkable; a means was needed to coerce them into entering a plea. Alternatively, individuals were frequently tried under Admiralty law, as observed by Henry de Bracton.\n\nThe \"Standing Mute Act 1275\", part of Statute of Westminster of 1275 of Edward I of England, states:\nIt appears to have initially meant imprisonment under harsh conditions:\n\nBy the reign of Elizabeth I it took the form of \"pressing\" the accused with weights. \nThe procedure was recorded by a 15th-century witness as follows:\n\"Pressing to death\" might take several days, and not necessarily with a continued increase in the load. The Frenchman Guy Miege, who from 1668 taught languages in London, says the following about the English practice:\n\"\" was abolished in the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1772, with the last known actual use of the practice having been in 1741. From 1772 refusing to plead was deemed to be equivalent to pleading guilty, but this was changed in 1827 to being deemed a plea of not guilty – which is now the case in all common law jurisdictions.\n\nThe most famous case in England was that of Roman Catholic martyr St Margaret Clitherow, who (in order to avoid a trial in which her own children would be obliged to give evidence and could be tortured) was pressed to death on 25 March 1586, after refusing to plead to the charge of having harboured Catholic (then outlawed) priests in her house. She died within fifteen minutes under a weight of at least . Several hardened criminals, including William Spiggot (1721) and Edward Burnworth, lasted a half hour under before pleading to the indictment. Others, such as Major Strangways (1658) and John Weekes (1731), refused to plead, even under , and were killed when bystanders, out of mercy, sat on them.\n\nIn America, Giles Corey was pressed to death between September 17 and September 19, 1692, during the Salem witch trials, after he refused to enter a plea in the judicial proceeding. According to legend, his last words as he was being crushed were \"More weight\", and he was thought to have been killed as the weight was applied. This is referred to in Arthur Miller's political drama \"The Crucible\", where Giles Corey is pressed to death after refusing to plead \"aye or nay\" to the charge of witchcraft. In the film version of this play, the screenplay of which was also by Miller, Corey is crushed to death for refusing to reveal the name of a source of information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57169054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57169054", "title": "Persistent objector", "text": "Persistent objector\n\nIn international law, a persistent objector is a sovereign state which has consistently and clearly objected to a norm of customary international law since the norm's emergence, and considers itself not bound to observe the norm. The concept is an example of the positivist doctrine that a state can only be bound by norms to which it has consented.\n\nObjection to the emergence of a norm may come in the form of statements declaring a state's position on an existing right, or action in which a state exercises an existing right in the face of an emerging norm which would threaten that right. Statements made at the time of a rule's establishment, such as in a reservation to a treaty, offer the clearest expression of a state's objection, but objections might also be expressed during treaty negotiations and even in statements by domestic lawmakers accompanying purely municipal legislation.\n\nJudicial support for the persistent objector rule is weak. The International Court of Justice has discussed the persistent objector rule in \"dicta\" in two cases: the \"Asylum case\" (\"Columbia v Peru\", [1950] ICJ 6) and the \"Fisheries case\" (\"United Kingdom v Norway\", [1951] ICJ 3). The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights rejected an attempted assertion of the persistent objector defence in \"Domingues v United States\" (2002) on the ground that the prohibition against the juvenile death penalty to which the United States objected was not merely customary international law but \"jus cogens\", a norm from which no derogation was permitted. However, this could also be read as confirming that a persistent objector defence may successfully overcome a norm of international human rights law which has not attained the status of \"jus cogens\".\n\nStronger support for the rule can be found in the writings of certain jurists. The American Law Institute was historically a major contributor to developing a \"comprehensive theory\" of persistent objection through its 1987 \"Third Restatement of the Foreign Relations Law of the United States\", part of its \"Restatements of the Law\" series.\n\n"}
{"id": "5894573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5894573", "title": "Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition", "text": "Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition\n\nThe Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition, also known as the Jessup Moot, is the oldest and largest international moot competition in the world, attracting participants from almost 700 law schools in more than 90 countries in recent years (100 countries took part in 2018). The competition has been described as the most prestigious moot court competition in the world by a large number of organisations and universities internationally, and is one of the grand slam or major moots.\n\nThe competition is a simulation of a fictional dispute between countries before the International Court of Justice (ICJ). It is named after Philip Jessup, who once served on the ICJ, and is organised by the International Law Students Association. The moot, under the leadership of Stephen Schwebel (who also wrote the inaugural moot problem), started as a friendly advocacy competition between two teams from Harvard University in 1960. The first champions were declared in 1963 and the competition opened its doors to non-American teams in 1968. The current sponsor of the international rounds of the moot is White & Case.\n\nThe Jessup moot involves arguing a hypothetical case on issues of international law as if before the International Court of Justice, but with a smaller complement of judges (three instead of 15). The International Law Students Association Board is responsible for soliciting and selecting proposals for the \"compromis\" every year.\n\nEach team comprises two to five student members. Each team must prepare to argue the sides of both the Applicant and Respondent in the case, and must produce a written memorial for each side of the case. In each round, two competitors from a team will argue one side of the case for 45 minutes in total, including any time reserved for rebuttal or sur-rebuttal. A third team member may be seated at the bar table as of-counsel, but may not present argument. There is no fixed team organisation. Some teams dedicate two oralists to each side of the argument, with the fifth person serving a more open-ended role. In other teams, only two or three speakers will present oral argument, with at least one person arguing both Applicant and Respondent sides. In addition, most teams include at least one advisor or coach, usually drawn from the respective universities' international law faculty and/or past Jessup competitors.\n\nMost countries hold national or regional rounds to select the best team or teams to advance to the international phase of the competition in Washington D.C., which is held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the American Society of International Law. Generally, each country can only send one school for every ten law schools that participate in the moot. For instance, the United States, which has more than a hundred law schools taking part each year, is represented by up to 12 teams following the conclusion of its six regional rounds, while smaller countries that have only a small number of law schools can only send one team. Domestic round administrators have some autonomy in setting their own rules. In Washington D.C., teams compete in four preliminary rounds, with the top 32 teams advancing to the knockout stages (Round of 32, Octo-final, Quarter-final, Semi-Final, and Final). Each oral round and memorial is usually evaluated by a panel of three judges. Judges for most of the rounds in Washington D.C. are usually practicing lawyers or academics, while notable academics and international judges are usually invited to judge the Semi-Final and Final round matches.\n\nThe moot is also marked by additional events such as the Announcement Party where the teams advancing to the knockout stages are declared, and the Go Nation dress ball where the participants from all across the world showcase their national dresses. The final gala and the reverse moot usually mark the end of the competition.\n\nAlthough the moot was founded in 1960, no winners were declared for the first three editions of the competition. The competition was only first open to countries outside of the United States in 1968, and outside of North America in 1970. The first international awards were handed out in 1972.\n\nThe University of Sydney has won the most number of championships, winning the Jessup Cup five times. National University of Singapore has the second best record (four times champions; seven times runner-up) and also the most Baxter Awards (five), Evans Awards (four), Best Oralist titles (four), and Best Finals Oralist titles (six). Five law schools have made the final on their international debuts: Australian National University (1981); Dalhousie University (1984); University of Saskatchewan (1991); University of Western Australia (1995); and Singapore Management University (2013). Of these schools, ANU, Dalhousie, and Saskatchewan won their finals. SMU is the fastest ever law school to reach the international final relative to its debut in the competition (2011), and is also the youngest ever law school to reach the international final (the first batch graduated in 2011) and back-to-back international finals (2013 and 2014).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9781365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9781365", "title": "Post-behavioralism", "text": "Post-behavioralism\n\nPost-behavioralism (or post-behaviouralism) also known as neo-behavioralism (or neo-behaviouralism) was a reaction against the dominance of behavioralist methods in the study of politics. One of the key figures in post-behaviouralist thinking was David Easton who was originally one of the leading advocates of the \"behavioral revolution\". Post-behavioralists claimed that despite the alleged value-neutrality of behavioralist research it was biased towards the status quo and social preservation rather than social change.\n\n\nHeinz Eulau described post-behavioralism as a \"near hysterical response to political frustrations engendered by the disconcerting and shocking events of the late sixties and early seventies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "509705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509705", "title": "Privity of contract", "text": "Privity of contract\n\nThe doctrine of privity of contract is a common law principle which provides that a contract cannot confer rights or impose obligations upon any person who is not a party to the contract.\n\nThe premise is that only parties to contracts should be able to sue to enforce their rights or claim damages as such. However, the doctrine has proven problematic because of its implications upon contracts made for the benefit of third parties who are unable to enforce the obligations of the contracting parties. In the UK, the doctrine has been substantially weakened by the Contracts (Rights of third Parties) Act 1999 creating exceptions to privity of contract.\n\nPrivity of contract occurs only between the parties to the contract, most commonly\ncontract of sale of goods or services. Horizontal privity arises when the benefits from a contract are to be given to a third party. Vertical privity involves a contract between two parties, with an independent contract between one of the parties and another individual or company.\n\nIf a third party gets a benefit under a contract, it does not have the right to go against the parties to the contract beyond its entitlement to a benefit. An example of this occurs when a manufacturer sells a product to a distributor and the distributor sells the product to a retailer. The retailer then sells the product to a consumer. There is no privity of contract between the manufacturer and the consumer.\n\nThis, however, does not mean that the parties do not have another form of action: for instance, in \"Donoghue v. Stevenson\" a friend of Ms. Donoghue bought her a bottle of ginger beer, which contained the partially decomposed remains of a snail. Since the contract was between her friend and the shop owner, Mrs. Donoghue could not sue under the contract, but it was established that the manufacturer was in breach of a duty of care owed to her. Accordingly, she was awarded damages in the tort of negligence for having suffered gastroenteritis and \"nervous shock\".\n\nPrior to 1861 there existed decisions in English Law allowing provisions of a contract to be enforced by persons not party to it, usually relatives of a promisee, and decisions disallowing third party rights. The doctrine of privity emerged alongside the doctrine of consideration, the rules of which state that consideration must move from the promisee. That is to say that if nothing is given for the promise of something to be given in return, that promise is not legally binding unless promised as a deed. 1833 saw the case of \"Price v. Easton\", where a contract was made for work to be done in exchange for payment to a third party. When the third party attempted to sue for the payment, he was held to be not privity to the contract, and so his claim failed. This was fully linked to the doctrine of consideration, and established as such, with the more famous case of \"Tweddle v. Atkinson\". In this case the plaintiff was unable to sue the executor of his father-in-law, who had promised to the plaintiff's father to make payment to the plaintiff, because he had not provided any consideration to the contract.\n\nThe doctrine was developed further in \"Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre v. Selfridge and Co. Ltd.\" through the judgment of Lord Haldane.\n\nPrivity of Contract played a key role in the development of negligence as well. In the first case of \"Winterbottom v. Wright\" (1842), in which Winterbottom, a postal service wagon driver, was injured due to a faulty wheel, attempted to sue the manufacturer Wright for his injuries. The courts however decided that there was no privity of contract between manufacturer and consumer.\n\nThis issue appeared repeatedly until \"MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.\" (1916), a case analogous to \"Winterbottom v Wright\" involving a car's defective wheel. Judge Cardozo, writing for the New York Court of Appeals, decided that no privity is required when the manufacturer knows the product is probably dangerous if defective, third parties (e.g. consumers) will be harmed because of said defect, and there was no further testing after initial sale. Foreseeable injuries occurred from foreseeable uses. Cardozo's innovation was to decide that the basis for the claim was that it was a tort not a breach of contract. In this way he finessed the problems caused by the doctrine of privity in a modern industrial society. Although his opinion was only law in New York State, the solution he advanced was widely accepted elsewhere and formed the basis of the doctrine of product liability.\n\nThere are exceptions to the general rule, allowing rights to third parties and some impositions of obligations. These are:\n\nAttempts have been made to evade the doctrine by implying trusts (with varying success), constructing the Law of Property Act 1925 s. 56(1) to read the words \"other property\" as including contractual rights, and applying the concept of restrictive covenants to property other than real property (without success).\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 provided some reform for this area of law which has been criticised by judges such as Lord Denning and academics as unfair in places. The act states:\n\nThis means that a person who is named in the contract as a person authorised to enforce the contract or a person receiving a benefit from the contract may enforce the contract unless it appears that the parties intended that he may not.\n\nThe Act enables the aim of the parties to be fully adhered to. In \"Beswick v Beswick\", the agreement was that Peter Beswick assign his business to his nephew in consideration of the nephew employing him for the rest of his life and then paying a weekly annuity to Mrs. Beswick. Since the latter term was for the benefit of someone not party to the contract, the nephew did not believe it was enforceable and so did not perform it, making only one payment of the agreed weekly amount. Yet the only reason why Mr. Beswick contracted with his nephew was for the benefit of Mrs. Beswick. Under the Act, Mrs. Beswick would be able to enforce the performance of the contract in her own right. Therefore, the Act realises the intentions of the parties.\n\nThe law has been welcomed by many as a relief from the strictness of the doctrine, however it may still prove ineffective in professionally drafted documents, as the provisions of this statute may be expressly excluded by the draftsmen.\n\nIn Australia, it has been held that third-party beneficiaries may uphold a promise made for its benefit in a contract of insurance to which it is not a party (\"Trident General Insurance Co Ltd v. McNiece Bros Pty Ltd\" (1988) 165 CLR 107). It is important to note that the decision in \"Trident\" had no clear ratio, and did not create a general exemption to the doctrine of privity in Australia.\n\nQueensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia have all enacted statutory provisions to enable third party beneficiaries to enforce contracts, and limited the ability of contracting parties to vary the contract after the third party has relied on it. In addition, section 48 of the Insurance Contracts Act 1984 (Cth) allows third-party beneficiaries to enforce contracts of insurance.\n\nAlthough damages are the usual remedy for the breach of a contract for the benefit of a third party, if damages are inadequate, specific performance may be granted (\"Beswick v. Beswick\" [1968] AC 59).\n\nThe issue of third-party beneficiaries has appeared in cases where a stevedore has claimed it is covered under the exclusion clauses in a bill of lading. In order for this to succeed, three factors must be made out:\n\nThe last issue was explored in \"New Zealand Shipping Co Ltd v. A M Satterthwaite & Co Ltd\" [1975] AC 154, where it was held that the stevedores had provided consideration for the benefit of the exclusion clause by the discharge of goods from the ship.\n\nNew Zealand has enacted the Contracts Privity Act 1982, which enables third parties to sue if they are sufficiently identified as beneficiaries by the contract, and in the contract it is expressed or implied they should be able to enforce this benefit. An example case of not being \"sufficiently identified\" is that of \"Field v Fitton\" (1988).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42170982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42170982", "title": "Rastriya Panchayat", "text": "Rastriya Panchayat\n\nRastriya Panchayat was the official legislature (parliament) (parliament) during the Panchayat regime of Nepal that effectively functioned from 1960 to 1990. Its head office was at the \"Gallery Baithak\" in Singha Durbar, Kathmandu. In the 1980s, it consisted of more than 120 members among which 105 members were directly elected by the people, while the king was to nominate 20 percent of its members, i.e. 19 members were nominated by the monarch.\n\nThe Rastriya Panchayat was dissolved by King Birendra after the People's Movement I in 1990 and replaced by a bicameral legislature with a fully elected House of Representatives ().\n"}
{"id": "685750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=685750", "title": "Roman military diploma", "text": "Roman military diploma\n\nA Roman military diploma was a document inscribed in bronze certifying that the holder was honourably discharged from the Roman armed forces and/or had received the grant of Roman citizenship from the emperor as reward for service.\n\nThe diploma was a notarised copy of an original \"constitutio\" (decree) issued by the emperor in Rome, listing by regiment (or unit) the eligible veterans. The \"constitutio\", recorded on a large bronze plate, was lodged in the military archive at Rome (none such has been found; presumably they were melted down in later times).\n\nDiplomas were issued during the Principate period (52-284 AD) to retiring veterans who had served in those corps of the Roman armed forces which enlisted \"peregrini\", that is, inhabitants of the Roman empire who were not Roman citizens (the vast majority of the empire's population in the 1st and 2nd centuries). Such corps were: the auxilia; Roman navy, the Praetorian Guard's cavalry (\"equites singulares Augusti\"); and the \"cohortes urbanae\" (the City of Rome's public-order battalions).\n\nThe first known diploma dates from AD 52, under emperor Claudius (r. 41-54), who appears to have regularised the practice of granting Roman citizenship to non-citizen auxiliaries after 25 years' service (26 in the navy).\n\nDiplomas were not normally issued to discharged legionaries, as the legions recruited Roman citizens only. However, legionary diplomas were exceptionally issued after the Civil War of 68/69 AD. As an emergency measure, 2 new legions, the \"I\" and \"II Classica\" (later reconstituted and renamed as I and II Adiutrix, respectively) were formed mainly from naval marines, many of whom did not hold citizenship. At the end of the crisis, these were all awarded Roman citizenship.\n\nIn 212, the \"Constitutio Antoniniana\", issued by the emperor Caracalla, granted Roman citizenship to all the inhabitants of the empire, thus ending the second-class \"peregrini\" status. This made military diplomas largely redundant, and indeed the last known auxiliary diplomas date from AD 203. But diplomas for service in the navy, Praetorian Guard cavalry and the \"cohortes urbanae\" continued to be issued until the late 3rd century. This might be explained by the fact that \"barbari\" (foreigners from outside the Roman empire) were still recruited for those units.\n\nThe veteran was granted Roman citizenship, which carried important legal and fiscal advantages, including exemption from the poll tax (\"tributum capitis\") payable by all non-citizen subjects of the empire. Citizenship was also granted to the veteran's natural children, but not to his female partner. Until ca. 140, all children born to the veteran during his term of service were eligible. After that date, it appears that the grant was restricted to children born after the veteran's discharge (unless the veteran had registered children born before his enlistment). This seemingly retrogressive step has been doubted by some historians, and it is possible that the available evidence is garbled.\n\nUntil the time of emperor Septimius Severus (r. 197-211), serving soldiers were legally prohibited to marry. In practice, many formed stable relationships with local women and brought up families. Diplomas retrospectively regularised such unions by granting the discharged veteran, in addition to citizenship, the right of \"connubium\" (\"inter-marriage\"), which was necessary as Roman citizens were not legally permitted to marry non-citizens (unless the latter possessed \"Latin Rights\").\n\nAn exceptional \"constitutio\" of emperor Hadrian (r. 117-38) is known from 3 diplomas, which granted citizenship to the beneficiaries' parents and siblings, in addition to their children.\n\nThe diploma consisted of two bronze tablets hinged together. Inscriptions would be engraved on each side of both plates. The full text of a diploma was engraved on the outer side of the so-called tabula 1, while the outer side of tabula 2 displayed the names of 7 witnesses, their seals covered and protected by metal strips (such seals have rarely survived, being of organic material). The text of tabula 1 was reproduced exactly on the two inner sides. The plates would then be folded shut and sealed together, so that the external inscription would be legible without breaking the seals. The internal inscription was the official notarised copy of the text on the \"constitutio\" published in Rome. The double-inscription and seals were presumably to prevent forgery or alteration.\n\nIn a likely scenario, the holder would take the sealed diploma to the province or \"civitas\" (city/county) where he intended to live in retirement. He would then present the diploma to the keeper of archives either at the provincial governor's headquarters (or perhaps at his local \"civitas\" offices). The archivist could break the seals and check that the data on the internal inscription matched the external one. If all was in order, he would then enter the diploma-holder's name onto the register of resident Roman citizens.\n\nOver 800 diplomas from the Principate have been found and over 650 published (although the majority have survived in only fragmentary form). This constitutes a rare corpus of Roman documentary material, whose survival is due to their being made of metal, rather than degradable material such as papyrus, wood or wax. A particular advantage of diplomas for historians is that they are dated. The date of the constitution was entered as the year of the emperor's \"tribunicia potestas\"; while the date of issue of the notarised copy (diploma) was given as the day of the month and the names of the Consuls currently in office (resulting in diplomas being an important source for the names of suffect consuls). As these documents also list the name of the provincial governor, they provide valuable data on senators' career-paths. In addition, diplomas usually record the names of several auxiliary units which served in the same province at the same time, as they were normally issued in batches. Thus a single diploma may yield the names of as many as 25 units included in the same constitution, critical data on the deployment of auxiliary units in the various provinces of the empire at different times. Constitutions are also known just for individual units, even individual veterans.\n\nThe following information on the beneficiary was usually recorded in the diploma: beneficiary's regiment, regimental commander's name, beneficiary's military rank, name of beneficiary, name of beneficiary's father and origin (nation, tribe or city); name of beneficiary's wife and name of her father and origin; and names of children granted citizenship.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50888430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50888430", "title": "School of Law, University of Mumbai", "text": "School of Law, University of Mumbai\n\nThe School of Law, University of Mumbai is a public institution for undergraduate legal education in India. It is established under Department of Law, University of Mumbai and is situated at the University of Mumbai, Thane Sub Campus, Thane, Mumbai. The college is the one of the two law colleges in Mumbai University to offer B.B.A. - LL.B. Course, the other being University of Mumbai Law Academy. School of Law is a University administered Institution. The Campus also houses Institute of Distance & Open Learning and Management courses.\n\nAdmissions to undergraduate courses happen through the Maharashtra Law CET. Maharashtra. It is conducted every year for the admission in undergraduate Legal Courses by Maharashtra Government.\n\nThe College was built on a budget of 3 crore Rupees. The building is situated at the newly built sprawling 6.5 acre University of Mumbai Campus in Thane, \n\nIt has the following amenities:\n\n\nSchool of Law offers a five-year integrated B.B.A.-LL.B.(Hons.) Program. It offers 60 seats each year. SoL follows a semester system with End Semester Exams happening every December and May. 75% Attendance is strictly mandatory and Bar Council dress code is followed by students.\n\nStudents are regularly provided with guest lectures on current issues and are taken for court visits and seminars.\n\nThe Students of School of Law have participated in many Moot Court Competitions and have its own Moot Court Association\nSoL conducts intra as well as freshre's moot court every year.\n\nStudents have achieved and participated in:\n\nThe Legal Aid Clinic (or committee, as is the practice now), established under Legal Service Authorities Act, 1987 which reads as \"Develop, in consultation with the Bar Council of India, programs for clinical legal education and promote guidance and supervise the establishment and working of legal services clinics in universities, law colleges and other institutions\". The Legal Aid Clinic at School of Law, University of Mumbai aims to provide every citizen with legal help, summary advice, self-help, community legal education, community development and various legal awareness program which is to be run Professors and students of School of Law, University of Mumbai.\n\nSchool of Law undertakes annual fest every fall that has many competitions and games and celebrations. The University of Mumbai, Thane Sub Campus organises its own cultural festival as well as annual utsav \"Khwaish\". It consists of youth oriented events and is organised and managed by the students. It has participation from several colleges and encourages students to showcase their talent on a bigger platform. There are more than thirty events, cultural and academic.\nSlogan - \"DREAM\"-In the City of Dreams, make a wish and be a part of Khwaइश‘17!\n\nThe College celebrates all the festivals throughout the year and has annual Week of Celebrations in Winter. \n\n"}
{"id": "210282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210282", "title": "Semi-presidential system", "text": "Semi-presidential system\n\nA semi-presidential system or dual executive system is a system of government in which a president exists alongside a prime minister and a cabinet, with the latter being responsible to the legislature of a state. It differs from a parliamentary republic in that it has a popularly elected Head of state, who is more than a mostly ceremonial/non executive (the powers, limitations differ in different parliamentary republics, that this type of president would have tend to be 'reserve'/emergency and non partisan in nature), figurehead (a president in a dual executive system also has political powers), and from the presidential system in that the cabinet, although named by the president, is responsible to the legislature, which may force the cabinet to resign through a motion of no confidence.\n\nWhile the Weimar Republic (1919–1933) exemplified an early semi-presidential system, the term \"semi-presidential\" was introduced by a 1959 article by journalist Hubert Beuve-Méry and popularized by a 1978 work by political scientist Maurice Duverger, both of which intended to describe the French Fifth Republic (established in 1958).\n\nThere are two separate subtypes of semi-presidentialism: premier-presidentialism and president-parliamentarism.\n\nUnder the premier-presidential system, the Prime Minister and Cabinet are exclusively accountable to Parliament. The President chooses the Prime Minister and Cabinet, but only the Parliament may remove them from office with a \"vote of no confidence\". The President does \"not\" have the right to dismiss the Prime Minister or the Cabinet. However, in some cases, the President can circumvent this limitation by exercising the discretionary power of dissolving the Parliament, which forces the Prime Minister and Cabinet to step down. This subtype is used in Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, East Timor, France, Georgia (since 2013), Lithuania, Madagascar, Mali, Mongolia, Niger, Poland, Portugal, Romania, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sri Lanka and Ukraine (since 2014; previously, between 2006 and 2010).\n\nUnder the president-parliamentary system, the Prime minister and Cabinet are dually accountable to the President and the Parliament. The President chooses the Prime Minister and the Cabinet but must have the support of the Parliament majority for his choice. In order to remove a Prime Minister or the whole Cabinet from power, the President can dismiss them, or the Parliament can remove them by a \"vote of no confidence\". This form of semi-presidentialism is much closer to pure presidentialism. It is used in Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Namibia, Russia, Senegal and Taiwan. It was also used in Ukraine, first between 1996 and 2005, and again from 2010 to 2014, Georgia between 2004 and 2013, and in Germany during the \"Weimarer Republik\" (Weimar Republic), as the constitutional regime between 1919 and 1933 is called unofficially.\n\nIn the parliamentary-presidential system the President is appointed by the legislature and is not directly elected by the people. The President is both Head of State and Head of Government; the role of a separate head of government, for example a Prime Minister, does not exist. The members of the cabinet are not members of the Legislative branch.\n\nThe powers that are divided between president and prime minister can vary greatly between countries.\n\nIn France, for example, in case of cohabitation, when the President and the Prime Minister come from opposing parties, the President oversees foreign policy and defence policy (these are generally called \"les prérogatives présidentielles\" (the presidential prerogatives) and the Prime Minister domestic policy and economic policy. In this case, the division of responsibilities between the Prime Minister and the President is not explicitly stated in the constitution, but has evolved as a political convention based on the constitutional principle that the Prime Minister is appointed (with the subsequent approval of a parliament majority) and dismissed by the President. On the other hand, whenever the President is from the same party as the Prime Minister who leads the \"conseil de gouvernement\" (cabinet), he/she often (if not usually) exercises \"de facto\" control over all fields of policy via the Prime Minister. It is up to the President to decide how much \"autonomy\" is left to \"their\" Prime Minister to act on their own. \n\nSemi-presidential systems may sometimes experience periods in which the president and the prime minister are from differing political parties. This is called \"cohabitation\", a term which originated in France when the situation first arose in the 1980s. Cohabitation can create an effective system of checks and balances or a period of bitter and tense stonewalling, depending on the attitudes of the two leaders, the ideologies of their parties, or the demands of their constituencies.\n\nIn most cases, cohabitation results from a system in which the two executives are not elected at the same time or for the same term. For example, in 1981, France elected both a Socialist president and legislature, which yielded a Socialist premier. But whereas the president's term of office was for seven years, the National Assembly only served for five. When, in the 1986 legislative election, the French people elected a right-of-centre assembly, Socialist President Mitterrand was forced into cohabitation with rightist premier Jacques Chirac.\n\nHowever, in 2000, amendments to the French constitution reduced the length of the French president's term from seven to five years. This has significantly lowered the chances of cohabitation occurring, as parliamentary and presidential elections may now be conducted within a shorter span of each other.\n\nThe incorporation of elements from both presidential and parliamentary republics brings some advantageous elements along with them but, however, it also faces disadvantages related to the confusion from mixed authority patterns.\n\nAdvantages\n\nDisadvantages\n\nIn semi-presidential systems, there is always both a president and a prime minister. In such systems, the president has genuine executive authority, unlike in a parliamentary republic, but the role of a head of government may be exercised by the prime minister. \"Italics\" indicate states with limited recognition.\n\nThe president chooses the prime minister and cabinet, but only the parliament may remove them from office with a \"vote of no confidence\". The president does not have the power to dismiss the prime minister or the cabinet which are chosen by the parliament. The president does not have the power to directly dismiss the assembly, but the presidentially appointed cabinet does.\nThe president chooses the prime minister without the confidence vote from the parliament. In order to remove a prime minister or the whole cabinet from power, the president can dismiss the prime minister or the assembly can remove the prime minister by a \"vote of no confidence\", but the president can dissolve the parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51461505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51461505", "title": "Statistical business register", "text": "Statistical business register\n\nA statistical business register (SBR) plays a central part in a system of official economic statistics at a national statistics office.\n\nA company register has a different purpose: protection, accountability and control of legal entities.\n\nCountries use whatever data sources they seem relevant. E.g. they often integrate a company register in one form or another.\n\nIn EU a corresponding regulation define register contents:\n\n\n\nUnited Nations Economic Commission for Europe provides Guidelines on Statistical Business Registers which describes the roles of the statistical business register.\n\nEuropean Commission provides a legal framework for business registers for statistical purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1220251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220251", "title": "Texas House Bill 588", "text": "Texas House Bill 588\n\nTexas House Bill 588, commonly referred to as the \"Top 10% Rule\", is a Texas law passed in 1997. It was signed into law by then governor George W. Bush on May 20, 1997.\n\nThe law guarantees Texas students who graduated in the top ten percent of their high school class automatic admission to all state-funded universities. The bill was created as a means to avoid the stipulations from the \"Hopwood v. Texas\" appeals court case banning the use of affirmative action. The Supreme Court ruled in Grutter v. Bollinger (2003) that affirmative action in college admissions was permissible, effectively overruling \"Hopwood\". UT Austin then reinstated affirmative action for the seats not filled by the Top Ten Percent law.\n\nThe law only guarantees \"admission\" into university. Students must still find the means to pay, and may not achieve their desired choice of major. (Another existing law, which preceded 588, provides a full tuition scholarship for the class valedictorian of a Texas high school for their freshman year at a state public school.)\n\nThe Texas \"Top 10% Plan\" is a transition from a race based policy known as affirmative action. Under a policy such as Texas' Top 10% plan, it is believed that student enrollment for minority students specifically would follow a mismatch hypothesis. This hypothesis predicts that the rates of minority students graduation and retention would improve under the newly established plan in opposition to affirmative action. This mismatch theory would be a result of students finding a university that is a better match for them academically, rather than overreaching and becoming overshadowed. \n\nThe law has drawn praise and criticism alike. Supporters of the rule argue that it ensures geographic and ethnic diversity in public universities. They also point out that students admitted under the legislation performed better in college than their counterparts. The law has been blamed for keeping students not in the top ten percent but with other credentials, such as high SAT scores or leadership and extracurricular experience, out of the larger \"flagship\" state universities, such as the University of Texas at Austin and Texas A&M University, College Station. UT-Austin has argued for several years that the law has come to account for too many of its entering students, with 81 percent of the 2008 freshmen having enrolled under it.\n\nSome administrators, such as former University of Texas at Austin President Larry Faulkner, have advocated capping the number of top ten percent students for any year at one half of the incoming class. Others have suggested a move to a top seven percent law. However, until May 2009 the Texas Legislature had not revised the law in any way since its inception. A 2007 measure (HB78) was introduced during the 80th Regular Session (2007) but never made it out of committee.\n\nUnder legislation approved in May 2009 by the Texas House as part of the 81st Regular Session (Senate Bill 175), UT-Austin (but no other state universities) was allowed to trim the number of students it accepts under the 10% rule; UT-Austin could limit those students to 75 percent of entering in-state freshmen from Texas. The University would admit the top 1 percent, the top 2 percent and so forth until the cap is reached, beginning with the 2011 entering class. UT System Chancellor Francisco Cigarroa and UT-Austin President William Powers Jr. had sought a cap of about 50 percent, but lawmakers (led by Representatives Dan Branch (R-Dallas) and Rep. Mike Villarreal (D-San Antonio)) brokered the compromise.\n\nA study in 2011 found that the law created a perverse incentive for students to transfer to a high school with lower-achieving peers, in order to graduate in that school's top percent.\n"}
{"id": "52324950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52324950", "title": "The Conscientious Objector", "text": "The Conscientious Objector\n\nThe Conscientious Objector is a 2004 documentary film about the life of Desmond Doss, a conscientious objector who received a Medal of Honor for his service in World War Two. His faith, Seventh-day Adventism, did not permit him to carry a weapon. He initially faced opposition, persecution, and ridicule from his fellow soldiers but ultimately won their admiration by demonstrating courage and saving lives as a combat medic.\n\nThe Oscar-nominated movie, \"Hacksaw Ridge\", was released in 2016 and is a dramatized account of Doss' life.\n\nThe film has been reviewed.\n\nThe film has won multiple awards which includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "43013727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43013727", "title": "Thomas McCaul", "text": "Thomas McCaul\n\nThomas McCaul (January 18, 1838 – October 24, 1926) was an American merchant, contractor and insurance agent from Tomah, Wisconsin who served one term as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly, as well as the first mayor of the newly elevated City of Tomah. During the American Civil War, he was a member of the 1st United States Sharpshooters.\n\nMcCaul was born in New York City on January 18, 1838; he received a common school education. He came to Wisconsin with his father and stepmother in 1855; they settled in Fox Lake. He became a farmer and merchant. At the outbreak of the Civil War, he enlisted in the 2nd Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry Regiment but was discharged at Camp Randall \"for injuries received\" (presumably during training. He re-enlisted in 1861 as a private in Company G of the 1st United States Sharpshooters (better known as Berdan's U. S Sharpshooters}. He participated in several battles, from the Siege of Yorktown (1862) to the Battle of Charles City Crossroads (he was brevetted captain by Governor of Wisconsin Lucius Fairchild \"in recognition of gallant and meritorious conduct in rallying retreating troops\" at this battle) to the Second Battle of Bull Run. (He also briefly went absent without leave in order to smuggle the body of a fellow Fox Lake soldier back home for burial; then returned to his unit.) At Bull Run he was wounded in the hip and shoulder, and lost his hearing in the right ear, as a result of which he was discharged from the service in 1863. He became a civilian employee of the Quartermaster Department in Washington, D.C. in 1864, and served at Fort Laramie during Red Cloud's War.\n\nMcCaul moved to Tomah in 1868, and held various local offices. In 1873, he was elected to the 2nd Monroe County Assembly district as a member of the Liberal Reform Party (a recently formed coalition of Democrats, reform and Liberal Republicans, and Grangers which secured the election of one Governor of Wisconsin and a number of state legislators) for a one-year term. He received 592 votes, against 513 for Republican Joseph Winship, and 178 for \"Independent Republican\" John F. Richards; incumbent Republican Adelbert Bleekman was not a candidate. He listed himself in the \"Wisconsin Blue Book\" as a \"Lib. Republican\"; and was assigned to the standing committee on the militia and the joint committee on local legislation. He was not a candidate for re-election, and was succeeded by Republican William W. Jackson.\n\nIn 1883, after Tomah became a city, he was elected its first mayor. He would serve in that office on several other occasions, and was elected once more in 1906 as the leader of a movement favoring construction of paving and sewers.\n\nHe became active in the Democratic Party, and represented his county at events such as the state Democratic convention in 1894.\n\nMcCaul died on October 24, 1926 and is buried in Oak Grove Cemetery in Tomah.\n\n"}
{"id": "10543033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10543033", "title": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Liberia)", "text": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Liberia)\n\nThe Liberian Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) is a Parliament-enacted organization created in May 2005 under the Transitional Government. The Commission worked throughout the first mandate of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf after her election as President of Liberia in November 2005. The Liberian TRC came to a conclusion in 2010, filing a final report and recommending relevant actions by national authorities to ensure responsibility and reparations.\n\nThe Liberian TRC has garnered much criticism for its inability to address Charles Taylor and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. The Special Court for Sierra Leone indicted Charles Taylor, the leader of the rebel group the National Patriotic Front of Liberia that many of the crimes against humanity are attributed. This indictment prevented the Liberian TRC from hearing any testimony from Taylor. Sirleaf, on the other hand, was placed on a list of persons that should be barred from public office, a ruling which was later overturned by the Liberian Supreme Court.\n\nThe Liberian TRC's mandate was to \"promote national peace, security, unity and reconciliation\" by investigating more than 20 years of civil conflict in the country and to report on gross human rights violations that occurred in Liberia between January 1979 and 14 October 2003. \"Violations\" are defined as violations of international human rights standards, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and any breaches of the Geneva Conventions.\n\nThe goal of the Liberian TRC was to dispel falsifications and misconceptions of the country's past socioeconomic and political development. The TRC also strove to provide a forum to address issues of impunity and allow victims and perpetrators of human rights violations to share their experiences, thereby creating a clear picture of the past and facilitate genuine healing and reconciliation. To this end, the Liberian TRC was granted full independence from the Liberian government, to prevent potential biases among the commissioners and other TRC employees.\n\nThe Liberian TRC was given full power to investigate gross human rights violations and systematic abuses of power in Liberia and, when possible, to identify individuals or groups that perpetrated these violations and to ensure accountability. The Liberian government took extensive measures to allow the TRC to gather information and create a thorough final report. Unlike the South African TRC, the Liberian TRC only had the ability to recommend candidates for amnesty to the Liberian government. The Liberian TRC could also make suggestions to the Liberian government regarding reparation and rehabilitation for victims; legal, institutional, or other reforms; the need for further investigation and inquiries into certain matters; and the need to hold prosecutions in particular cases.\n\nThe government of Liberia appointed 10 members.\n\nThe Final Report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission was released on 1 July 2009. The Final Report summed nearly 400 pages and entailed the mandate of the TRC, the methodology used in its finding, the background of the conflict in Liberia, a summary of its process of collecting information, reports of its findings, and finally its recommendations to prevent atrocities like those carried out by Charles Taylor and Prince Johnson. The Final Report took into account over 20,000 individual statements from Liberia, the United States, Nigeria, Europe, and Ghana.\n\nThe final report dealt with the problems facing post civil war Liberia in two steps. The first determination of the Liberian TRC was a list of recommendations to the Liberian government for reparations to victims of the civil wars and reforms to prevent atrocities from reoccurring, and the second was a list of names of people who required additional investigation or were found to be deserving of amnesty. The Liberian TRC made a total of 47 recommendations to the Liberian government ranging from establishing national culture centers to promote Liberia's diverse culture to ensuring that perpetrators of gross violations of human right pay reparations to victims. The TRC made suggestions to ensure that victims of the Liberian Civil Wars received appropriate compensation and that perpetrators saw some form of punishment. They additionally suggested that resources and infrastructure be made available to settle any lasting problems or conflicts. The TRC recommended no blanket amnesty, but rather asked amnesty for those under the age of 18 when fighting and those that did not break any humanitarian laws. To the government, the TRC recommended many reformations to cultural systems in place including alteration of the national motto, a reduction of the number of political parties, enhanced regulation on political appointments, and an alteration of the official Liberian calendar to include holidays from multiple ethnic groups. Broadly, the Liberian TRC propositioned that the Liberian government promote a culture of respect for human rights, ensure the protection of women and children, and decentralize the Liberian government's power.\n\nAlongside the recommended policy changes, the TRC provided seven lists of persons or groups requiring extra investigation or deserving of amnesty. The final report listed 57 people or entities recommended for further investigation; 19 corporations, institutions, and state actors responsible for committing economic crime; 21 individuals for committing economic crime; 98 of the most notorious people that committed gross human rights violations; the eight leaders of the warring factions; and, lastly, a list of 50 persons recommended for sanctions. The TRC recommended that all individuals and entities noted as most notorious or requiring further investigation have a formal trial in the Liberian justice system.\n\nAmong the list of persons that should be \"specifically barred from holding public offices; elected or appointed for a period of thirty (30) years\" for \"being associated with former warring factions\" was Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, the current president of Liberia. On 26 July, Sirleaf apologized to Liberia for supporting Charles Taylor, adding that \"when the true nature of Mr. Taylor's intentions became known, there was no more impassioned critic or strong opponent to him in a democratic process\" than she. On 28 August Liberia's parliament announced they must \"consult our constituents for about a year\" before deciding whether or not to implement the Commission's recommendations.\n\nCharles Taylor was a radical revolutionary in Liberia during the first Liberian Civil War and, after the death of Samuel Doe, was elected president of Liberia in 1997. During Taylor's rise to power and during his term as president, however, he carried out multiple atrocities against both the Liberian people and the people of Sierra Leone, grossly violating international humanitarian laws. After the second Liberian Civil War and Taylor's fall from power in 2003, the SCSL issued an indictment for Taylor's supposed involvement in the Sierra Leone Civil War. Through the SCSL, Charles Taylor faced trial in 2009, receiving a guilty verdict on all charges on 26 April 2012.\n\nWhile Charles Taylor did face prosecution and punishment through the SCSL, many are now criticizing the Liberian TRC for not having access to hear Taylor's testimony. Without Charles Taylor's version of Liberia's Civil Wars, the rewriting of Liberia's history is arguably incomplete, leaving the Liberian people vague as to the role he actually played in the humanitarian violations in Liberia. Priscilla Hayner, the a co-founder of the International Center for Transitional Justice, established three guidelines that Truth and Reconciliation Commissions should follow to ensure due process: the accused should be notified of the allegations held against them, they should be given the opportunity to respond to the charges, and the TRC should make clear in their final report that their findings on individual responsibility do not amount to criminal guilt. Because the Liberian government handed Charles Taylor over to the SCSL, they, and the Liberian TRC, lost access to Taylor, preventing him from testifying before the TRC and preventing a full truth of the events in Liberia from being constructed.\n\nThe Liberian TRC impact locally was minimal. In January 2011, the Supreme Court ruled in \"Williams v. Tah\", a case brought by one of the people listed to be barred from public office in the TRC report. Their ruling stated that the TRC's recommendation on who should be allowed to hold office was an unconstitutional violation of the listed individuals' right to procedural due process, and that it would be unconstitutional for the government to implement the proposed bans. This decimated a large portion of the TRC's recommendations, allowing people that perpetrated or aided in gross human rights violations to remain in power in Liberia. Additionally, the other recommendations that the TRC made have not been followed, lowering the local impact to essentially none. Even though the government has not instituted the recommendations made by the TRC, 73% of Liberians had heard of the TRC and 62% believed their proposed changes should be implemented. However, only 39% of Liberians believed that the TRC actually helped promote peace and unity in Liberia.\n\nWhile the Liberian TRC did not drastically alter the political situation in Liberia, it did take steps in the truth and reconciliation process that other TRCs had not taken. The TRC worked with The Advocates for Human Rights, a U.S. based organization to help promote Liberian diaspora communities in the TRC's work, the first time a TRC had gathered statements and hearings in this method. These diaspora communities allowed the TRC to gather statements from the refugees that had fled during the Liberian Civil Wars. The Liberian TRC also broke new ground in recommending prosecution of groups that committed economic crimes. These crimes ranged from tax evasion to aiding and abetting war crimes. Even though the TRC did not have its suggestions enacted by the Liberian government, the steps they took in the truth and reconciliation community will likely be taken into consideration by Truth and Reconciliation Commissions in the future.\n\nThe Liberian TRC has faced much criticism for a variety of reasons. Critics have claimed that the TRC lacked adequate funding, competent staff, and sufficient infrastructure. The government's failure to follow through on the recommendations made by the TRC has reflected poorly on the Liberian Truth Commission's image. In 2008, Amnesty International criticized the TRC's inability to publicize its policies on reparation and prosecution, as well as the commission's policies on protection for victims, lack of general amnesty for those that provide information, and inability to provide individual reparations. The TRC also ran past its indicated period of activity, which caused the final hearings and the report to be rushed to meet the mandated deadline. This hurriedness caused a disconnect between the names recommended for prosecution or to be barred from office and their specific crimes along with a general lack of evidence to support the claims made by the TRC. The Liberian TRC's lack of power has been pointed out and further demonstrated by the Liberian government failing to enact any of their recommendations. Beyond having its recommendations ignored, the list of individuals recommended to be barred from office was found unconstitutional by the Liberian government. This ruling allowed President Sirleaf, who was recommended to be barred from office, to remain in power, garnering much international criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "17942372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17942372", "title": "United States v. Arnold", "text": "United States v. Arnold\n\nUnited States v. Arnold, 533 F.3d 1003 (9th Cir. 2008), is a United States court case in which the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution does not require government agents to have reasonable suspicion before searching laptops or other digital devices at the border, including international airports.\n\nThis decision has caused worry and some controversy among Fourth Amendment advocates, such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Especially troubled are those that legitimately store sensitive business, legal, or customer data; who worry that federal agents might leak information found from laptop searches. Several legislators have discussed and introduced measures to counter the ruling in order to provide more protection to travellers, but none have become law.\n\nOn July 17, 2005, Michael Arnold arrived at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) after spending a three-week vacation in the Philippines. After retrieving his luggage, Arnold proceeded through the checkpoint at customs. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Officer Laura Peng saw Arnold waiting in line and selected him for secondary questioning.\n\nPeng questioned Arnold, and began inspecting his luggage, noting a laptop computer and several computer accessories. Peng instructed Arnold to turn on the computer so she could see if it was functioning. CBP Officer John Roberts was called to assist with the inspection while the computer was booting up.\n\nAmong the icons displayed on the computer's desktop, two were named \"Kodak Pictures\" and one was named \"Kodak Memories\". Peng and Roberts opened these folders, began viewing the photos, and noted one that depicted two nude women. At that point special agents from U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) were called. Arnold was detained and questioned by the ICE agents for several hours. They further examined the computer and equipment, and found numerous images of what they believed to be child pornography.\n\nArnold was released, but his computer was seized by the agents. Federal agents obtained a warrant two weeks later. Arnold was charged with (1) knowingly transporting child pornography, (2) knowingly possessing a computer hard drive and compact discs which both contained more than one image of child pornography, and (3) knowingly and intentionally traveling in foreign commerce and attempting to engage in illicit sexual conduct with a person under 18 years of age.\n\nArnold filed for a motion to suppress, and argued that the government required reasonable suspicion to conduct the search. This motion was granted by the District Court, ruling in Arnold's favor. The Government promptly appealed the case, and stated that the border doctrine took precedence over the Fourth Amendment's protection from unreasonable search. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the lower court's ruling, holding in favor of the Government. Arnold was represented in the District Court and before the Ninth Circuit by Marilyn E. Bednarski and Kevin J. LaHue, of Kaye, McLane, Bednarski, & Litt.\n\nThe crux of Arnold's argument is that a laptop is very similar to a person's home and the human mind, much more so than an ordinary container for data. His argument is based on the notion that a laptop has the ability to store a greater amount of data and personal documents, much like those stored in one's home. He continued to argue that because a laptop is able to record ideas, e-mail, internet chats, and web-surfing habits, it is very similar to the \"human mind.\" Under these arguments he sought the protection of the Fourth Amendment, which states that \"the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated ... \".\n\nArnold also raised the exception that the government's searches are limited in cases where they are of a \"particularly offensive manner,\" and argued that such was the case when CBP officers seized and searched his laptop.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation filed an amicus brief in support of Arnold. The amici included the EFF and the Association of Corporate Travel Executives (ACTE). The brief argued that the government's position and current practice subjects travelers to unconstitutional invasive searches of laptops and other devices. Their argument is similar to that already made by Arnold, and they contended mainly that a computer is different from a gas tank, suitcase, or other closed container because laptops routinely contain some of the most personal information about a person's life. Moreover, the amici were concerned that a search would reveal information that is already protected under other statutes, including privileged legal communications, reporters' notes from confidential sources, and trade secrets.\n\nIn summary, the main points of the brief are that: (1) people have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the information stored on their laptop computers; (2) searches of personal electronic information devices ... are particularly invasive of personal privacy; (3) the volume of information stored on computers means that the privacy invasion of a laptop border search is enormous; (4) personal computers often contain information that the individual does not know about, or has even sought to erase; (5) laptop computer searches are indistinguishable from \"general searches;\" (6) there is a real risk of unconstrained \"pretext\" searches; and (7) the first amendment protects many of the contents on laptop computers. The final point raised the worry that indiscriminate searches of information stored on laptops will discourage people from storing sensitive data, thus causing a chilling effect on speech.\n\nA personal computer is among a person's most private belongings. Laptop computers are virtual extensions of the mind, used to record and share our thoughts, feelings, and activities; indeed, \"they are postal services, playgrounds, jukeboxes, dating services, movie theaters, daily planners, shopping malls, personal secretaries, virtual diaries, and more.\" ... [a]s a result, our laptop computers contain as much information about us as our homes contain - perhaps more.\n\nOverall, the amici were concerned that unchecked compliance with the border doctrine would infringe too far on a citizen's First and Fourth Amendment rights. In their view, the doctrine did not provide the protection that it was meant to enact, as technology now provides ways to maneuver around it. \" ... a smuggler's 'container of choice' for electronic contraband is the internet. They may simply email it to themselves or post it online to avoid customs searches. A ruling that overturns the decision would not undermine the government's ability to protect its borders.\"\n\nIn response to Arnold's motion to suppress, the government argued two points. Firstly, the Fourth Amendment did not require reasonable suspicion because of the border doctrine. Secondly, even if reasonable suspicion were required, it was present.\n\nThe government argued that the United States has a duty to take measures to ensure the safety of its interior. Past cases have stated that \"it is axiomatic that the United States, as sovereign, has the inherent authority to protect, and a paramount interest in protecting, its territorial integrity.\" In \"United States v. Ramsey\", the court stated that \"searches made at the border ... are reasonable simply by virtue of the fact that they occur at the border ... \" In the case of Arnold, the point that linked these two conclusions together was the notion that international American airports are the functional equivalent of a border, as stated in \"Almeida-Sanchez v. United States\".\n\nReference was also made to a history of searches of closed containers such as a briefcases, purses, wallets, pockets, pictures, film, and other graphic material. These items are the equivalent of a closed container, and have traditionally been searched at the border without particularized suspicion. It is acknowledged that some limits have been made, specifically a traveler's alimentary canal. Such limitations are made when searching a person, not their objects in possession, in the interest of human dignity and privacy, which the Fourth Amendment protects.\n\nThe Court addressed the argument that the search of Arnold's laptop was carried out in a particularly offensive manner, and was so destructive that it required particularized suspicion. The court acknowledged that there was no precedent to declare when a border search should be deemed unreasonable. The Supreme Court has left open the question of the circumstances that make a search particularly offensive, and thus unreasonable. However, the Court pointed out that Arnold never claimed that his laptop was damaged in any way during the government's search.\n\nEven without a clear scale to determine how offensive a search may be, the Court dismissed the reasoning of the District Court that particularized suspicion was needed in the case of Arnold. The District Court-based this decision on previous cases that related to search of the human body, not of property.\n\nThe Court distinguished searches at American airports because they are considered border searches, and occur at the \"functional equivalent of a border\". Previously, the Supreme Court had stated that:\n\nTo address Arnold's claim that a laptop is like a home, and therefore requires Fourth Amendment protection, the court dismissed his argument as without merit. Its decision is based on previous Supreme Court judgments that have denied Fourth Amendment protections to property which is also \"capable of functioning as a home.\" \n\nLastly, the Court addressed a comparison to \"United States v. Ickes\", 393 F.3d 501 (4th Cir. 2005). In that case, a man's van was stopped and searched as he was driving from Canada into the United States. The court upheld the border search doctrine, and the Ninth Circuit acknowledged the concerns and followed the reasoning that carving out a First Amendment exception to the border doctrine would (1) protect terrorist communications \"which are inherently 'expressive'\"; (2) create an unworkable standard for government agents who \"would have to decide - on their feet - which expressive material is covered by the First Amendment\"; and (3) contravene the weight of Supreme Court precedent refusing to subject government action to greater scrutiny with respect to the Fourth Amendment when an alleged First Amendment interest is also at stake.\"\n\nBy this reasoning, the Court justified the government's interest in preventing unwanted persons and effects as greater than a person's desire to conceal the contents of their baggage. The decision of the District Court was overturned, ruling in favor of the government.\n\nOn February 23, 2009, the Supreme Court of the United States notified Arnold's counsel that it had denied Arnold's petition for writ of certiorari. Attorneys for Arnold filed a motion to de-publish the Ninth Circuit opinion (which was denied). In their motion, Arnold's counsel explained that two days after being informed of the Supreme Court's refusal to hear his appeal, Arnold committed suicide.\n\nThis ruling has caused much controversy and discussion among First and Fourth Amendment rights activists, including the American Civil Liberties Union and the Electronic Frontier Foundation. One of the primary points of controversy is the court's ruling that a laptop is no different from any other type of container. Just as Arnold has argued, critics argue that a laptop contains far more sensitive and personal data than any ordinary container. They continue to state that a laptop search is so revealing and invasive that the Fourth Amendment requires agents to have some reasonable suspicion to justify the intrusion.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation expressed their disappointment in its statement:\n\nThe opinion is almost certainly wrong to classify laptop searches as no different from other property searches. Fourth Amendment law constrains police from conducting arbitrary searches, implements respect for social privacy norms, and seeks to maintain traditional privacy rights in the face of technological changes. This \"Arnold\" opinion fails to protect travelers in these traditional Fourth Amendment ways.\nOther critics have cited that there are some documents and data that need to be legitimately kept secret or discreet, and are worried that there is nothing to prevent the officials involved in a search from disclosing this sensitive data. They give examples of trade secrets, acquisition plans, plans for a new product, security data about private customers. The concern is that officials in the process of searching may copy and leak this information without consent. Most are unwilling to trust government officials and employees to not misuse what they seize or negligently disclose confidential information.\n\nOn August 1, 2008, the \"Washington Post\" reported that Department of Homeland Security policies allow federal agents to \"take a traveler's laptop computer or other electronic device to an off-site location for an unspecified period of time without any suspicion of wrongdoing.\" Further, \"officials may share copies of the laptop's contents with other agencies and private entities for language translation, data decryption or other reasons.\" Senator Russell Feingold called these policies \"truly alarming\" and said that he intends to introduce legislation soon that would require reasonable suspicion for border searches, as well as prohibit profiling on race, religion, or national origin. Meanwhile, Ryan Singel of Wired.com recommended placing one's electronics and papers \"in a first class U.S. mail envelope and stamp it—or even better mail it to yourself before the trip,\" since 'officers may not read or permit others to read correspondence contained in sealed letter class mail (the international equivalent of First Class) without an appropriate search warrant or consent'. However, this only applies to articles in the postal system, not to letters carried by individuals or private carriers such as DHL, UPS, or FedEx.\n\nSenator Feingold, fellow Democratic Senator Maria Cantwell, and Democratic Representative Adam Smith announced on September 26, 2008, that they had proposed a law to limit the searches of laptops or other electronic devices to cases where United States Customs and Border Protection officials have reasonable suspicion of illegal activity. The so-called Travelers' Privacy Protection Act would allow border agents to search electronic devices only if they had reasonable suspicions of wrongdoing. In addition, the legislation would limit the length of time that a device could be out of its owner's possession to 24 hours, after which the search becomes a seizure, requiring probable cause. This bill was introduced, but never became law due to the starting of the new 111th session of Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47075429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47075429", "title": "Wilson A. Head", "text": "Wilson A. Head\n\nWilson A. Head (September 30, 1914 – October 7, 1993) was an American/Canadian sociologist and community planner known for his work in race relations, human rights and peace in the United States, Canada and other parts of the world.\n\nWilson Adonijah Head was born on September 30, 1914, in Milner, Georgia. He \"was the son of a Georgia sharecropper, Evander Head (1892–1925), and of Evelyn Whittle (1898–1981), the eldest of five children\"; siblings Frank, Marvin, Glenn, and Winnie Head. He was of African American, Northern European, and Cherokee Indian descent. He grew up in deep poverty in the small black community of Milner, near Atlanta. His father died when he was 11, but his mother stressed the importance of education, telling him he would have to be \"twice as smart as whites to compete\". \"He was once fired from a job for glancing at a newspaper. His boss didn't think blacks should know how to read. His mother took in laundry but when Head delivered it to her white customers, white boys would throw bricks at him or jump him.\" Wilson worked to put himself through school, graduating from Booker T. Washington High School in 1933 and, after taking two years to work and save the fees, graduated from Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee, Alabama in 1940 with a Bachelor of Science in Education, by which time he had been named in Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges, 1939–40. In his memoirs, \"A Life on the Edge: Experiences in Black and White in North America\", Dr. Head describes the poverty and injustices to which Black people in the \"Deep South\" were subjected, and which he experienced in his youth.\n\nIn the 1930s, Dr. Head took part in a series of \"sit-ins\" on restaurants and bars, and protested against barbers, shopkeepers, and movie house owners who would not serve blacks a decade before the civil rights movement began. He also helped to desegregate a golf course in Windsor.\n\nHe worked at times with the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). From 1943 to 1948, he was director of community development and community organization at Flanner House in Indianapolis, which served poor and indigent Black people. \"In 1981, then president of the National Black Coalition of Canada, he testified before the Joint House Senate Committee on the Canadian Constitution\". He was on the executive of The Metro Committee on Race Relations and Policing.\n\nDr. Head moved to Windsor, Canada in 1959 \"to get my children away from a racist society\". In the US, he had been director of Chicago's Parkway Community House, and director of the State of Ohio's Juvenile Diagnostic Centre. When he came to Canada in 1959, he was the Executive Director of the Windsor Group Therapy Project. In 1965 he became the Director of Research and Planning for the Social Planning Council of Metropolitan Toronto.\n\n\"He lectured in Social Work at the University of Windsor, 1960–1964, University of Michigan, 1962–1964, Wayne State University, 1963–1965 and Sir Williams College, Chicago, 1961–1964. He was involved with a number of organizations including the Canadian Civil Liberties Association of Toronto as Vice-President in 1967, The National Welfare Council founding member and National Black Coalition of Canada as Chairman and President from 1977 to 1982. Dr. Head became the first chairman of the Bachelor of Social Work Program at Atkinson College, York University\".\n\nIn 1988 Dr. Head was asked to participate in the Donald Marshall Inquiry Commission in Nova Scotia. This investigation led to his paper \"Discrimination Against Blacks in Nova Scotia: The Criminal Justice System\".\n\nOn June 26, 1980, Dr. Head was assaulted while climbing the steps to the offices of UARR (Urban Alliance on Race Relations), College Street at Spadina Avenue, Toronto. He was attacked from behind with several blows to the head, resulting in a fall down the stairs. It took the police over 40 minutes to arrive at the scene after being called. The identity of his white assailant was never discovered.\n\nDr. Head was raised in the Baptist Church, but became a member of the Quakers (Society of Friends) in the 1940s. The Quakers supported him in his own convictions of pacifism, egalitarianism, and conscientious objection to military service. He was seen as a \"moderate\" in his views on combating racism, although he was notably the first to put racism on the agenda of the Canadian conscience. His \"quiet, reasonable style became his hallmark\". He opposed segregation of the races all his life. \"He denounced the idea of all-black schools and social services, asserting, 'segregation is inherently inferior. In his role as executive of the Metro Committee on Race Relations and Policing in Toronto, he was an \"outspoken critic of Metro police\", citing racial profiling in their practices. Dr. Head fought fiercely against poverty in Canada. He strove for peace and disarmament as Chairman of the Toronto Chapter, \"World Conference on Religion and Peace\", 1978–1984, member of \"Science for Peace: Operation Dismantle\", member of \"Social Workers for Peace and Disarmament\", on the steering committee for \"Disarmament and Peace Movements\", and member of \"Toronto Disarmament Network\" \"If the bomb falls, race relations will not matter; we will all be dead.\" He also advocated for the abolition of prisons.\n\nDr. Head died of cancer of the prostate at Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario on October 7, 1993.\n\n\n\nDr. Head received countless honors and awards in his lifetime, among which are:\n\nDr. Head authored and coauthored numerous research studies and articles, the more notable of which are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54985661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54985661", "title": "Zapple doctrine", "text": "Zapple doctrine\n\nThe Zapple doctrine was part of a specific provision of the fairness doctrine, an FCC policy which required broadcasters to present multiple viewpoints about controversial issues of public importance. The fairness doctrine of 1949 allowed station licensees to editorialize, provided that more than one perspective was included in their overall programming. This was a departure from prior policy under the Mayflower doctrine, which did not allow any editorial content.\n\nThe Zapple doctrine pertained to a particular sort of political speech situation, when a candidate or his supporters buy air time to support the candidate, or criticize his opponent, but the candidate himself does not actually appear in the broadcast.\n\nThe FCC's political broadcasting rules require that equal time be offered to political candidates. The equal-time rule only applied to the candidate, not to the candidate's supporters or spokespeople though.\n\nIn May 1970, Senate Commerce Committee counsel Nicholas Zapple argued to the FCC that the fairness doctrine was applicable to air time provided by a broadcast station to a political candidate's spokesperson or supporters. In other words, if one candidate's supporters were allowed to buy air time, then representatives and supporters of opposing candidates should have the opportunity to buy a comparable amount of air time. Similarly, if one candidate was given free coverage by a broadcaster, then that broadcaster should be required to offer free coverage to the opposing candidate too. After careful consideration, the FCC responded to Nicholas Zapple by ruling that all similar parties must have quasi-equal opportunity, i.e. they should be treated similarly. This decision became known as the Zapple ruling, and eventually, the Zapple doctrine.\n\nUnder the terms of Section 315 of the Communications Act of 1934, 23 FCC 2d 707 (1970), the Zapple Doctrine applied to purchasing of broadcast time by major political party candidates only.\n\nBy 1985, the FCC was concerned that the fairness doctrine might actually have a chilling effect, which was the very opposite of the policy's original intent of encouraging fair and balanced coverage: \"In order to avoid the requirement to go out and find contrasting viewpoints on every issue raised in a story, some journalists simply avoided any coverage of some controversial issues.\" In addition, journalists felt that it infringed on their rights of free speech/free press under the First Amendment. In August 1985, the FCC decided to suspend the fairness doctrine (it was an FCC policy but not mandated by Congress).\n\nAlthough the Fairness Doctrine was suspended, the Zapple Doctrine remained extant as an FCC ruling for the next two decades.\n\nOn May 8, 2014, the FCC was asked to respond to a political programming complaint, made against a broadcast licensee, Capstar TX LLC by supporters of Tom Barrett, the Democratic candidate for Governor of Wisconsin. The Barrett supporters alleged that Capstar would not give them any free airtime on its radio station WISN (AM), in order to respond to statements previously aired on WISN in support of Scott Walker, the Republican candidate for office in the 2012 election. Walker's supporters had received free air time from WISN and affiliate WTMJ (AM) for political campaigning purposes. Barrett supporters based their complaint on WISN's violation of the Zapple Doctrine.\n\nThe FCC acknowledged that WISN had refused to provide air time to Barrett campaign supporters, in violation of the Zapple Doctrine. However, the FCC ruled that there was no violation of the law: \"Given the fact that the Zapple Doctrine was based on an interpretation of the fairness doctrine, which has no current legal effect, we conclude that the Zapple Doctrine similarly has no current legal effect.\"\n\nIn re: Capstar TX LLC was the catalyst for the FCC's decision that the Zapple Doctrine was unenforcable.\n\nThe agency [FCC] tasked with protecting the public interest in broadcasting has decided that WISN and WTMJ, two publicly-licensed radio stations in Milwaukee, were allowed to give away all the free time they wanted to the supporters of one candidate (in this case, Gov. Walker), without allowing supporters of his Democratic recall opponent (Tom Barrett) any free airtime at all.\n"}
