{"id": "44929303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44929303", "title": "2014 mosque arson attacks in Sweden", "text": "2014 mosque arson attacks in Sweden\n\nThe 2014 Sweden mosques arson attacks were a series of arson attacks on three mosques in Sweden that took place during one week at the end of 2014. In addition to being struck by Molotov cocktails, some mosques were vandalized with racist graffiti. The first incident, the only to have caused injuries, was however later found by police investigations to have been an accident in the mosque kitchen caused by an overheated deep-fryer.\n\nOn Christmas, five people suffered injuries when, according to early reports, a petrol bomb had been tossed through the window of a mosque in Eskilstuna. Up to 20 people, including children, were in the mosque at the time of the attack. Police later said they were investigating the incident as an accident, considering it unlikely to have been a deliberate attack. It was later reported that an overheated deep-fryer was the probable cause of the fire.\n\nThe second attack took place on Monday in the southern Swedish town of Eslöv just after 3 am local time. No one was injured on that occasion. Early on New Year’s morning, a third attack hit a mosque in Uppsala.\n\nThe attacks happened at a time of rising anti-immigrant sentiment and political tension over Sweden's status as the leading destination in the European Union (per capita) for asylum seekers.\n\nPrime Minister Stefan Löfven said that the attacks were \"hateful violence\" and denounced the crime. He said that the attacks were not representative of Sweden. and that \"no-one in Sweden should be afraid of practicing their religion\".\n\nSamir Muric, the imam in Eslöv, told a Swedish news agency: \"Unfortunately this is probably something to do with Islamophobia. I live nearby, and it’s beginning to feel unsafe.\"\n\nOn January 2, 2015, hundreds of anti-racist demonstrators in three major Swedish cities rallied in support of Muslims.\n\n"}
{"id": "21020820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21020820", "title": "Andorra Red Cross", "text": "Andorra Red Cross\n\nThe Andorran Red Cross (Catalan: \"Creu Roja Andorrana\") is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency assistance, disaster relief and education within Andorra. The organization was founded in 1980, and was officially recognized as the 162nd National Society member of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies on March 24, 1994. Its headquarters are in Andorra la Vella.\n\n"}
{"id": "40458507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40458507", "title": "Arabs in Romania", "text": "Arabs in Romania\n\nArabs in Romania () are the people from Arab countries, particularly Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Iraq, Jordan and also small groups from Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Libya and Sudan, who emigrated from their native nations and currently reside in Romania. Most Arab Romanians are of Lebanese or Syrian origin. In the forty-year history of this community, 5,000 Arabs have migrated to Romania. It is estimated that almost half a million Middle Eastern Arabs studied in Romania during the 1980s.\n\nIn addition, Romania has people from Arab countries, who have the status of refugees (Refugees of the Syrian civil war) or illegal immigrants, primarily from North Africa, trying to immigrate to Western Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11830449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11830449", "title": "Assets Examination Committee", "text": "Assets Examination Committee\n\nThe Assets Examination Committee (Thai: คณะกรรมการตรวจสอบการกระทำที่ก่อให้เกิดความเสียหายแก่รัฐ; RTGS: \"Khana Kammakan Truat Sop Kan Kratham Thi Ko Hai Koet Khwam Sia Hai Kae Rat\", Literal Meaning: the Committee for Inspection of Acts being Detrimental to the State), abbreviated as AEC (Thai: คตส., RTGS: khotoso), sometimes translated as the Assets Scrutiny Committee or ASC, is a now-defunct Thai administrative body in charge of scrutiny of assets of the ministers in the government of Pol Lt Col Thaksin Shinawatra. The Council for National Security, a military junta that overthrew Thaksin's government in 2006, accused those ministers of having gained assets in a manner against the law or detrimental to the state. They set up the AEC in response.\n\n\nThe AEC's powers and duties were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7672105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7672105", "title": "Assyrians in the Netherlands", "text": "Assyrians in the Netherlands\n\nThe Assyrians in the Netherlands comprises migrants of Assyrian ancestry and their descendants born in the Netherlands. They mainly live in the east of the country, in the province of Overijssel, in such cities as Enschede, Hengelo, Almelo and Borne. The main reason that the Assyrians are concentrated there is because it is an industrial area which lies at the border with Germany, where a large German Assyrian population resides (many Assyrians in the Netherlands have relatives in Germany.)\n\nThe first Assyrians came to the Netherlands in the 1970s; most of them were from Turkey. In the 1980s, Assyrians from Syria began to emigrate to the Netherlands. The latest group of Assyrians immigrants come from Iraq, and have been arriving since the first Gulf War.\n\nIn the 1980s, as with other immigrants in Europe, a strong feeling of nationalism started to develop among the Assyrians in the Netherlands. This sentiment started to make Assyrians be active in working for projects that helped them preserve their identity. A few projects that started out were Assyrians society building, Assyrians churches and Assyrians language classes, which were being given in Dutch schools to Assyrian children and also on weekends in so-called Bible school classes. They also started camps for Assyrians youth, Assyrian music and dance classes were offered in the community, lectures to adult Assyrians on society building and lots of social events were organized for the Assyrian community. Since 1981 there is a Syriac Orthodox monastery in the village Glane near the German border. \n\nThe Assyrians began to organize demonstrations to bring their situation in the Assyrian homeland to the attention of the media and to bring the 20th century Assyrian genocide to the attention of the Dutch government.\n\nThe Assyrians have managed to both integrate into Dutch society and maintain their own ethnic identity, as there are a lot of social events organized by Assyrian clubs. Some of the latest projects which Assyrians in the Netherlands have started are: the Seyfo Center, the Assyrian Church Choir, representation of Assyrians in the Dutch government (such as Attiya Gamri), and the foundation of the Assyrian Youth Movement (AJF).\n\nAssyrians in the Netherlands mostly belong to Syriac Orthodox Church, but there is also a small community belonging to the Chaldean Catholic Church and Assyrian Church of the East. The first Assyrians mainly worked in factories or opened restaurants, but today, mostly attend university and work in all sectors of the economy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30630917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30630917", "title": "Brain Committee", "text": "Brain Committee\n\nThe Interdepartmental Committee on Drug Addiction, commonly called the Brain Committee after its chairman Sir Russell Brain, was created by the Home Office in 1958 to consider issues related to drugs and drug addiction in the United Kingdom. The committee explored whether or not certain drugs should be considered addictive or habit-forming; examined whether there was a medical need to provide special, including institutional, treatment outside the resources already available, for persons addicted to drugs; and made recommendations, including proposals for administrative measures, to the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for Scotland.\n\nThe committee produced two reports.\n\nThe first report is also known as The Report of the Second Inter-departmental Committee on Drug Addiction, and was published in 1961. It stated that the incidence of addiction to dangerous drugs in Great Britain was small. This was the same conclusion drawn by the previous committee, The Rolleston Committee, in 1926.\n\nThe second report was published in 1964. This report showed that there had been a significant rise in the incidence of addiction to heroin and cocaine, that the main source of supply was a small number of over-prescribing doctors. The Rolleston defined addiction as an individualised pathology, whilst the second Brain report explicitly described the condition as a socially infectious one. It recommended the establishment of special treatment centres, especially in the London area, where addicts could be isolated from the community and treated. These became known as Drug Dependency Units, or DDUs.\n\nA recommendation of the second committee was to set up a Standing Advisory Committee to keep under review the whole problem of drug dependence. This drew on evidence provided by doctors and eventually they produced a report, the Wootton Report.\n"}
{"id": "21620689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21620689", "title": "British Dragon Boat Racing Association", "text": "British Dragon Boat Racing Association\n\nThe British Dragon Boat Racing Association (BDA) is the UK governing body for dragon boat racing as a sport and recreation, recognised by the UK Sports Council.\n\nThe BDA controls the sport through its Executive Committee and Council.\n\nThe BDA Executive Committee is responsible for the policy, organisation and administration of the sport, at UK level, and for the selection of British crews competing abroad.\n\nAs a National Governing Body, the BDA is a member of both the International Dragon Boat Federation (IDBF) and the European Dragon Boat Federation (EDBF).\n\nDragon Boat Racing first featured competitively in the UK in September 1980 at the Hong Kong in London Chinese Festival. Races held on the River Thames were won by the Richmond Canoe Club in both the Men's and Women's classes. In 1981 racing featured in the World Canoe and Kayak Racing Championships, held at the National Water Sports Centre, Nottingham. The Lincoln Imps crew won this 500-metre event.\n\nThe formation of the DBRC (Dragon Boat Racing Club of Great Britain) in June 1985, was the first serious attempt to organise the sport on a national scale in the British Isles. With the three Hong Kong wooden boats imported for the London Festival in 1980, the DBRC raced fairly regularly during 1986/87, and with the support of the HKTA, built the first fibre-glass dragon boat in the country.\n\nAfter making its debut on the BBC TV's 'Blue Peter' programme, in May 1986 a dragon boat was raced from London to Nottingham via the canal system by a crew of soldiers in aid of charity. The crew paddled 180 miles (including 180 portages for canal locks) in 9 days and raised over £4,000 for Sport Aid en route. In 1986 and early 1987 specialist dragon boat groups were formed in Sheffield, Liverpool and Tyneside (although none of them had dragon boats, at this stage).\n\nIn July 1987, following an initiative by the DBRC, these groups came together to form the British Dragon Boat Racing Association – the BDA, which was formally constituted as the governing body for the sport of Dragon Boat Racing in the UK at an inaugural meeting held at the National Water Sports Centre, Nottingham.\n\nThe 1st National Championships were held in October 1987 on the Serpentine Lake in London's Hyde Park, where 19 crews contested the 500m races. Elmbridge Kayak Club were the first BDA National Champions over this distance. During 1988 the sport expanded rapidly when over 20 events were held in the UK and the BDA was recognised by the Central Council for Physical Recreation (CCPR) as the sport's governing body and admitted into its membership.\n\nThe sport of Dragon Boat Racing was recognised by the Sports Council in 1992 and the BDA as its Governing Body received recognition in 1994.\n\nLord Sebastian Coe is the current Patron of the BDA.\n\nThere are currently over 28 member teams in the BDA National League, these are split into the Standard League and the Premier League \n\nBDA League Clubs include:\n\nClubs compete from the UK in the BDA National League with changing fortunes every year\n\n"}
{"id": "50938360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50938360", "title": "College Club of Seattle", "text": "College Club of Seattle\n\nThe College Club of Seattle is a private club in Seattle, Washington that was founded in 1910. As of 2016, the club has evolved into a rowing and water sport club on Lake Union and has 200 members.\n\nThe club was founded in 1910 by five Yale graduates (Thomas Babcock, Ralph Angell, St. Clair Dickinson, Bob Forbes and Bob Chase) and one graduate from the University of Wisconsin. After signing up 50 members and choosing a president by the name of Charles P. Spooner, a Princeton graduate with a law degree from Wisconsin and on the University of Washington Board of Regents, the club moved into a rented suite of rooms on the second floor of the old federal court building on the corner of Fourth Ave. and Marion Street. With a growing membership, the club outgrew this space in 1912 and hired the Metropolitan Building Company to build them a new home on the corner of Fifth Avenue and Seneca Streets, which they shared with the Women's University Club until 1921. Once again, the College Club outgrew their space and a new building was erected on Sixth Avenue and Spring Street. This building served as the club's home until 1962 when plans for the new I-5 freeway called for its removal. The club had previously purchased a lot at 505 Madison Street for $100,000 in 1954 and a new building was erected there. This would serve as the club's longest home until it was sold to a developer in 2007 and the club moved temporarily into the Columbia Tower Club through 2013. In 2013, the club purchased two houseboats on the NE shores of Seattle's Lake Union where it currently operates as a private rowing, kayaking, paddleboarding, and swimming club.\n\nAlthough founded as a private men's club in downtown Seattle, the changing demographics of in-city clubs resulted in a significant decrease in the club's membership roster from a high of 1,200 in 1990 to just under 200 today. As a result, the club abandoned the traditional private club model and has since moved onto two houseboats on the NE shores of Lake Union where it currently operates as a private rowing, kayaking, paddleboarding and swimming club. The two houseboats are called the M/V Unity and the M/V Inspiration. The Unity, the smaller of the two vessels and the one closer to land, contains three floors, each measuring 70' by 32' (6,720 total sq. ft.) The Inspiration has two floors measuring 54' by 70' and a third-floor, two-bedroom caretaker's apartment measuring 15' by 31' (8,025 total sq. ft.) Together, the two boats contain 14,745 sq. ft. of space.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "89313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89313", "title": "Cooperative", "text": "Cooperative\n\nA cooperative (also known as co-operative, co-op, or coop) is \"an autonomous association of persons united voluntarily to meet their common economic, social, and cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly-owned and democratically-controlled enterprise\". Cooperatives may include:\n\n\nResearch published by the Worldwatch Institute found that in 2012 approximately one billion people in 96 countries had become members of at least one cooperative. The turnover of the largest three hundred cooperatives in the world reached $2.2 trillion. \n\nCooperative businesses are typically more economically resilient than many other forms of enterprise, with twice the number of co-operatives (80%) surviving their first five years compared with other business ownership models (41%). Cooperatives frequently have social goals which they aim to accomplish by investing a proportion of trading profits back into their communities. As an example of this, in 2013, retail co-operatives in the UK invested 6.9% of their pre-tax profits in the communities in which they trade as compared with 2.4% for other rival supermarkets..\n\nSince 2002 cooperatives and credit unions could be distinguished on the Internet by use of a .coop domain. Since 2014, following International Cooperative Alliance's introduction of the Cooperative Marque, ICA cooperatives and WOCCU credit unions can also be identified by a coop ethical consumerism label.\n\nCooperation dates back as far as human beings have been organizing for mutual benefits. Tribes were organized as cooperative structures, allocating jobs and resources among each other, only trading with the external communities. In alpine environments, trade could only be maintained in organized cooperatives to achieve a useful condition of artificial roads such as Viamala in 1472. Pre-industrial Europe is home to the first cooperatives from an industrial context.. The roots of the cooperative movement can be traced to multiple influences and extend worldwide. In the English-speaking world, post-feudal forms of cooperation between workers and owners that are expressed today as \"profit-sharing\" and \"surplus sharing\" arrangements, existed as far back as 1795. The key ideological influence on the Anglosphere branch of the cooperative movement, however, was a \"rejection\" of the charity principles that underpinned welfare reforms when the British government radically revised its Poor Laws in 1834. As both state and church institutions began to routinely distinguish between the 'deserving' and 'undeserving' poor, a movement of friendly societies grew throughout the British Empire based on the principle of mutuality, committed to self-help in the welfare of working people.\nIn 1761, the Fenwick Weavers' Society was formed in Fenwick, East Ayrshire, Scotland to sell discounted oatmeal to local workers. Its services expanded to include assistance with savings and loans, emigration and education. In 1810, Welsh social reformer Robert Owen, from Newtown in mid-Wales, and his partners purchased New Lanark mill from Owen's father-in-law David Dale and proceeded to introduce better labour standards including discounted retail shops where profits were passed on to his employees. Owen left New Lanark to pursue other forms of cooperative organization and develop coop ideas through writing and lecture. Cooperative communities were set up in Glasgow, Indiana and Hampshire, although ultimately unsuccessful. In 1828, William King set up a newspaper, \"The Cooperator\", to promote Owen's thinking, having already set up a cooperative store in Brighton.\n\nThe Rochdale Society of Equitable Pioneers, (RCEP) founded in 1844, is usually considered the first successful cooperative enterprise, used as a model for modern coops, following the 'Rochdale Principles'. A group of 28 weavers and other artisans in Rochdale, England set up the society to open their own store selling food items they could not otherwise afford. Within ten years there were over a thousand cooperative societies in the United Kingdom.\n\nOther events such as the founding of a friendly society by the Tolpuddle Martyrs in 1832 were key occasions in the creation of organized labor and consumer movements.\n\nFriendly Societies established forums through which one member, one vote was practiced in organisation decision-making. The principles challenged the idea that a person should be an owner of property before being granted a political voice. Throughout the second half of the nineteenth century (and then repeatedly every twenty years or so) there was a surge in the number of cooperative organisations, both in commercial practice and civil society, operating to advance democracy and universal suffrage as a political principle. Friendly Societies and consumer cooperatives became the dominant form of organization amongst working people in Anglosphere industrial societies prior to the rise of trade unions and industrial factories. Weinbren reports that by the end of the 19th century, over 80% of British working age men and 90% of Australian working age men were members of one or more Friendly Society.\n\nFrom the mid-nineteenth century, mutual organisations embraced these ideas in economic enterprises, firstly amongst tradespeople, and later in cooperative stores, educational institutes, financial institutions and industrial enterprises. The common thread (enacted in different ways, and subject to the constraints of various systems of national law) is the principle that an enterprise or association should be owned and controlled by the people it serves, and share any surpluses on the basis of each member's cooperative contribution (as a producer, labourer or consumer) rather than their capacity to invest financial capital.\n\nThe International Co-operative Alliance was the first international association formed (1895) by the cooperative movement. It includes the World Council of Credit Unions. A second organization formed later in Germany: the International Raiffeisen Union. In the United States, the National Cooperative Business Association (NCBA CLUSA; the abbreviation of the organization retains the initials of its former name, Cooperative League of the USA) serves as the sector's oldest national membership association. It is dedicated to ensuring that cooperative businesses have the same opportunities as other businesses operating in the country and that consumers have access to cooperatives in the marketplace. \n\nIn 1945 Artturi Ilmari Virtanen received Nobel prize for chemistry for AIV silage which improved milk production and a method of preserving butter, the AIV salt, which led to increased Finnish butter exports. He had started his career in chemistry in Valio, a cooperative of dairy farmers in which he headed the research department for 50 years and where all his major inventions were first put to practice.\n\nBy 2004 a new association focused on worker co-ops was founded, the United States Federation of Worker Cooperatives.\n\nThe cooperative movement has been fueled globally by ideas of economic democracy. Economic democracy is a socioeconomic philosophy that suggests an expansion of decision-making power from a small minority of corporate shareholders to a larger majority of public stakeholders. There are many different approaches to thinking about and building economic democracy. Anarchists are committed to libertarian socialism and have focused on local organization, including locally managed cooperatives, linked through confederations of unions, cooperatives and communities. Marxists, who as socialists have likewise held and worked for the goal of democratizing productive and reproductive relationships, often placed a greater strategic emphasis on confronting the larger scales of human organization. As they viewed the capitalist class to be politically, militarily and culturally mobilized for the purpose of maintaining an exploitable working class, they fought in the early 20th century to appropriate from the capitalist class the society's collective political capacity in the form of the state, either through democratic socialism, or through what came to be known as Leninism. Though they regard the state as an unnecessarily oppressive institution, Marxists considered appropriating national and international-scale capitalist institutions and resources (such as the state) to be an important first pillar in creating conditions favorable to solidaristic economies. With the declining influence of the USSR after the 1960s, socialist strategies pluralized, though economic democratizers have not as yet established a fundamental challenge to the hegemony of global neoliberal capitalism.\n\nCooperative principles are the seven guidelines by which coops put their values into practice, often called the seven Rochdale Principles:\n\n\nCooperatives values, in the tradition of its founders, are based on \"self-help, self-responsibility, democracy, equality, equity and solidarity.\" Co-operative members believe in the ethical values of honesty, openness, social responsibility and caring for others.\n\nSince 2002, ICA cooperatives and WOCCU credit unions could be distinguished by use of a .coop domain. In 2014, ICA introduced the Global Cooperative Marque for use by ICA's Cooperative members and by WOCCU's Credit Union members so they can be further identified by their coop ethical consumerism label. The marque is used today by thousands of cooperatives in more than a hundred countries.\n\nThe .coop domain and Co-operative Marque were designed as a new symbol of the global cooperative movement and its collective identity in the digital age. The Co-operative Marque and domain is reserved just for co-operatives, credit unions and organisations that support co-operatives; is distinguished by its ethical badge that subscribes to the seven ICA Cooperative Principles and Co-op Values. Co-ops can be identified on the Internet through the use of the .coop suffix of internet addresses. Organizations using .coop domain names must adhere to the basic co-op values.\n\nA cooperative is a legal entity owned and democratically controlled by its members. Members often have a close association with the enterprise as producers or consumers of its products or services, or as its employees.. The legal entities have a range of social characteristics. Membership is open, meaning that anyone who satisfies certain non-discriminatory conditions may join. Economic benefits are distributed proportionally to each member's level of participation in the cooperative, for instance, by a dividend on sales or purchases, rather than according to capital invested. Cooperatives may be classified as either \"worker\", \"consumer\", \"producer\", \"purchasing\" or \"housing\" cooperatives. They are distinguished from other forms of incorporation in that profit-making or economic stability are balanced by the interests of the community.\n\nThere are specific forms of incorporation for cooperatives in some countries, e.g. Finland and Australia. Cooperatives may take the form of companies limited by shares or by guarantee, partnerships or unincorporated associations. In the UK they may also use the industrial and provident society structure. In the US, cooperatives are often organized as non-capital stock corporations under state-specific cooperative laws. Cooperatives often share their earnings with the membership as dividends, which are divided among the members according to their participation in the enterprise, such as patronage, instead of according to the value of their capital shareholdings (as is done by a joint stock company).\n\nCapital and the Debt Trap reports that \"cooperatives tend to have a longer life than other types of enterprise, and thus a higher level of entrepreneurial sustainability\". This resilience has been attributed to how cooperatives share risks and rewards between members, how they harness the ideas of many and how members have a tangible ownership stake in the business. Additionally, \"cooperative banks build up counter-cyclical buffers that function well in case of a crisis,\" and are less likely to lead members and clients towards a debt trap (p. 216). This is explained by their more democratic governance that reduces perverse incentives and subsequent contributions to economic bubbles.\n\nA 2013 report by ILO concluded that cooperative banks outperformed their competitors during the financial crisis of 2007-2008. The cooperative banking sector had 20% market share of the European banking sector, but accounted for only 7 per cent of all the write-downs and losses between the third quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2011. Cooperative banks were also over-represented in lending to small and medium-sized businesses in all of the 10 countries included in the report.\n\nA 2013 report published by the UK Office for National Statistics showed that in the UK the rate of survival of cooperatives after five years was 80 percent compared with only 41 percent for all other enterprises. A further study found that after ten years 44 percent of cooperatives were still in operation, compared with only 20 percent for all enterprises.\n\nA 2012 report published by The European Confederation of cooperatives and worker-owned enterprises active in industry and services showed that in France and Spain, worker cooperatives and social cooperatives “have been more resilient than conventional enterprises during the economic crisis”.\n\nIn a 2007 study by the World Council of Credit Unions, the 5-year survival rate of cooperatives in the United States was found to be 90% in comparison to 3-5% for traditional businesses.. Credit unions, a type of cooperative bank, had five times lower failure rate than other banks during the financial crisis and more than doubled lending to small businesses between 2008 - 2016, from $30 billion to $60 billion, while lending to small businesses overall during the same period declined by around $100 billion. Public trust in credit unions stands at 60%, compared to 30% for big banks and small businesses are five times less likely to be dissatisfied with a credit union than with a big bank.\n\nA 2010 report by the Ministry of Economic Development, Innovation and Export in Québec found that the five-year survival rate and 10-year survival rate of cooperatives in Québec to be 62% and 44% respectively compared to 35% and 20% for conventional firms. Another report by the BC-Alberta Social economy Research Alliance found that the three-year survival rate of cooperatives in Alberta to be 81.5% in comparison to 48% for traditional firms. Another report by the aforementioned Research Alliance found that in British-Columbia, the 5-year survival rates for cooperatives between 2000 and 2010 to be 66.6% in comparison to conventional businesses that had 43% and 39% in the years 1984 and 1993 respectively\n\nThe top 300 largest cooperatives were listed in 2007 by the International Co-operative Alliance. 80% were involved in either agriculture, finance, or retail and more than half were in the United States, Italy, or France. \n\nA consumers' cooperative is a business owned by its customers. Members vote on major decisions and elect the board of directors from among their own number. The first of these was set up in 1844 in the North-West of England by 28 weavers who wanted to sell food at a lower price than the local shops. \n\nRetail cooperatives are retailers, such as grocery stores, owned by their customers. They should not be confused with retailers' cooperatives, whose members are retailers rather than consumers. In Denmark and Finland the company with the largest market share in grocery store sector is a customer owned cooperative .\n\nA housing cooperative is a legal mechanism for ownership of housing where residents either own shares (share capital co-op) reflecting their equity in the cooperative's real estate, or have membership and occupancy rights in a not-for-profit cooperative (non-share capital co-op), and they underwrite their housing through paying subscriptions or rent.\n\nHousing cooperatives come in three basic equity structures\n\nMembers of a building cooperative (in Britain known as a self-build housing cooperative) pool resources to build housing, normally using a high proportion of their own labor. When the building is finished, each member is the sole owner of a homestead, and the cooperative may be dissolved.\n\nThis collective effort was at the origin of many of Britain's building societies, which however, developed into \"permanent\" mutual savings and loan organisations, a term which persisted in some of their names (such as the former \"Leeds Permanent\"). Nowadays such self-building may be financed using a step-by-step mortgage which is released in stages as the building is completed. The term may also refer to worker cooperatives in the building trade.\n\nA utility cooperative is a type of consumers' cooperative that is tasked with the delivery of a public utility such as electricity, water or telecommunications services to its members. Profits are either reinvested into infrastructure or distributed to members in the form of \"patronage\" or \"capital credits\", which are essentially dividends paid on a member's investment into the cooperative. In the United States, many cooperatives were formed to provide rural electrical and telephone service as part of the New Deal. \"See Rural Utilities Service\".\n\nIn the case of electricity, cooperatives are generally either generation and transmission (G&T) co-ops that create and send power via the transmission grid or local distribution co-ops that gather electricity from a variety of sources and send it along to homes and businesses.\n\nIn Tanzania, it has been proven that the cooperative method is helpful in water distribution. When the people are involved with their own water, they care more because the quality of their work has a direct effect on the quality of their water.\n\nCredit unions are cooperative financial institutions that are owned and controlled by their members. Credit unions provide the same financial services as banks but are considered not-for-profit organizations and adhere to cooperative principles.\n\nCredit unions originated in mid-19th-century Germany through the efforts of pioneers Franz Herman Schulze'Delitzsch and Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen. The concept of financial cooperatives crossed the Atlantic at the turn of the 20th century, when the \"caisse populaire\" movement was started by Alphonse Desjardins in Quebec, Canada. In 1900, from his home in Lévis, he opened North America's first credit union, marking the beginning of the Mouvement Desjardins. Eight years later, Desjardins provided guidance for the first credit union in the United States, where there are now about 7,950 active status federally insured credit unions, with almost 90 million members and more than $679 billion on deposit.\n\nCooperative banking networks, which were nationalized in Eastern Europe, work now as real cooperative institutions. In Poland, the SKOK (\"Spółdzielcze Kasy Oszczędnościowo-Kredytowe\") network has grown to serve over 1 million members via 13,000 branches, and is larger than the country’s largest conventional bank.\n\nIn Scandinavia, there is a clear distinction between mutual savings banks (Sparbank) and true credit unions (Andelsbank).\n\nThe oldest cooperative banks in Europe, based on the ideas of Friedrich Raiffeisen, are joined together in the 'Urgenossen'.\n\nA worker cooperative or producer cooperative is a cooperative, that is owned and democratically controlled by its \"worker-owners\". There are no outside owners in a \"pure\" workers' cooperative, only the workers own shares of the business, though hybrid forms exist in which consumers, community members or capitalist investors also own some shares. In practice, control by worker-owners may be exercised through individual, collective or majority ownership by the workforce, or the retention of individual, collective or majority voting rights (exercised on a one-member one-vote basis). A worker cooperative, therefore, has the characteristic that the majority of its workforce owns shares, and the majority of shares are owned by the workforce. Membership is not always compulsory for employees, but generally only employees can become members either directly (as shareholders) or indirectly through membership of a trust that owns the company.\n\nThe impact of political ideology on practice constrains the development of cooperatives in different countries. In India, there is a form of workers' cooperative which insists on compulsory membership for all employees and compulsory employment for all members. That is the form of the Indian Coffee Houses. This system was advocated by the Indian communist leader A. K. Gopalan. In places like the UK, common ownership (indivisible collective ownership) was popular in the 1970s. Cooperative Societies only became legal in Britain after the passing of Slaney's Act in 1852. In 1865 there were 651 registered societies with a total membership of well over 200,000. There are now more than 400 worker cooperatives in the UK, Suma Wholefoods being the largest example with a turnover of £24 million.\n\n\"Business and employment cooperatives\" (BECs) are a subset of worker cooperatives that represent a new approach to providing support to the creation of new businesses.\n\nLike other business creation support schemes, BEC's enable budding entrepreneurs to experiment with their business idea while benefiting from a secure income. The innovation BECs introduce is that once the business is established the entrepreneur is not forced to leave and set up independently, but can stay and become a full member of the cooperative. The micro-enterprises then combine to form one multi-activity enterprise whose members provide a mutually supportive environment for each other.\n\nBECs thus provide budding business people with an easy transition from inactivity to self-employment, but in a collective framework. They open up new horizons for people who have ambition but who lack the skills or confidence needed to set off entirely on their own – or who simply want to carry on an independent economic activity but within a supportive group context.\n\nA \"purchasing cooperative\" is a type of cooperative arrangement, often among businesses, to agree to aggregate demand to get lower prices from selected suppliers. Retailers' cooperatives are a form of purchasing cooperative.\n\nMajor purchasing cooperatives include Best Western, ACE Hardware and CCA Global Partners.\n\n\"Agricultural service cooperatives\" provide various services to their individual farming members, and \"agricultural production cooperatives\", where production resources such as land or machinery are pooled and members farm jointly. \n\nAgricultural supply cooperatives aggregate purchases, storage, and distribution of farm inputs for their members. By taking advantage of volume discounts and utilizing other economies of scale, supply cooperatives bring down members' costs. Supply cooperatives may provide seeds, fertilizers, chemicals, fuel, and farm machinery. Some supply cooperatives also operate machinery pools that provide mechanical field services (e.g., plowing, harvesting) to their members. Known examples include the cranberry-and-grapefruit cooperative Ocean Spray, collective farms in socialist states and the kibbutzim in Israel.\n\nProducer cooperatives consists of producers as it's members, and provides services involved in moving a product from the point of production to the point of consumption. Unlike worker cooperatives, they allow businesses with multiple employees to join.\n\nAgricultural marketing cooperatives operate a series of interconnected activities involving planning production, growing and harvesting, grading, packing, transport, storage, food processing, distribution and sale. Agricultural marketing cooperatives are often formed to promote specific commodities.\n\nCommercially successful agricultural marketing cooperatives include India's Amul (dairy products), which is the world's largest producer of milk and milk products, Dairy Farmers of America (dairy products) in the United States, and Malaysia's FELDA (palm oil).\n\nMulti-stakeholder cooperatives include representation from different stakeholder groups, such as both consumers and workers.\n\nCooperatives traditionally combine social benefit interests with capitalistic property-right interests. Cooperatives achieve a mix of social and capital purposes by democratically governing distribution questions by and between equal by not controlling members. Democratic oversight of decisions to equitably distribute assets and other benefits means capital ownership is arranged in a way for social benefit inside the organization. External societal benefit is also encouraged by incorporating the operating-principle of cooperation between co-operatives. In the final year of the 20th century, cooperatives banded together to establish a number of social enterprise agencies which have moved to adopt the multi-stakeholder cooperative model. In the years 1994–2009 the EU and its member nations gradually revised national accounting systems to \"make visible\" the increasing contribution of social economy organizations.\nA particularly successful form of multi-stakeholder cooperative is the Italian \"social cooperative\", of which some 11,000 exist. \"Type A\" social cooperatives bring together providers and beneficiaries of a social service as members. \"Type B\" social cooperatives bring together permanent workers and previously unemployed people who wish to integrate into the labor market. They are legally defined as follows:\n\nNew generation cooperatives (NGCs) are an adaptation of traditional cooperative structures to modern, capital intensive industries. They are sometimes described as a hybrid between traditional co-ops and limited liability companies or public benefit corporations. They were first developed in California and spread and flourished in the US Mid-West in the 1990s. They are now common in Canada where they operate primarily in agriculture and food services, where their primary purpose is to add value to primary products. For example, producing ethanol from corn, pasta from durum wheat, or gourmet cheese from goat’s milk. A representative example of an operating NGC is the Fourth Estate (association), a multi-stakeholder NGC journalism association.\n\nA platform cooperative, or platform co-op, is a cooperatively owned, democratically governed business that establishes a computing platform, and uses a protocol, website or mobile app to facilitate the sale of goods and services. Platform cooperatives are an alternative to venture capital funded platforms insofar as they are owned and governed by those who depend on them most—workers, users, and other relevant stakeholders. Proponents of platform cooperativism claim that, by ensuring the financial and social value of a platform circulate among these participants, platform cooperatives will bring about a more equitable and fair digitally mediated economy in contrast with the extractive models of corporate intermediaries. Platform cooperatives differ from traditional cooperatives not only due to their use of digital technologies, but also by their contribution to the commons for the purpose of fostering an equitable social and economic landscape.\n\nA volunteer cooperative is a cooperative that is run by and for a network of volunteers, for the benefit of a defined membership or the general public, to achieve some goal. Depending on the structure, it may be a collective or mutual organization, which is operated according to the principles of cooperative governance. The most basic form of volunteer-run cooperative is a voluntary association. A lodge or social club may be organized on this basis. A volunteer-run co-op is distinguished from a worker cooperative in that the latter is by definition employee-owned, whereas the volunteer cooperative is typically a non-stock corporation, volunteer-run consumer co-op or service organization, in which workers and beneficiaries jointly participate in management decisions and receive discounts on the basis of sweat equity.\n\nIn some cases, cooperative societies find it advantageous to form cooperative federations in which all of the members are themselves cooperatives. Historically, these have predominantly come in the form of cooperative wholesale societies, and cooperative unions. Cooperative federations are a means through which cooperative societies can fulfill the sixth Rochdale Principle, cooperation among cooperatives, with the ICA noting that \"Cooperatives serve their members most effectively and strengthen the cooperative movement by working together through local, regional and international structures.\"\nA second common form of cooperative federation is a cooperative union, whose objective (according to Gide) is \"to develop the spirit of solidarity among societies and... in a word, to exercise the functions of a government whose authority, it is needless to say, is purely moral.\" Co-operatives UK and the International Cooperative Alliance are examples of such arrangements.\n\nIn some countries with a strong cooperative sector, such as the UK, cooperatives may find it advantageous to form political groupings to represent their interests. The British Co-operative Party, the Canadian Cooperative Commonwealth Federation and United Farmers of Alberta are prime examples of such arrangements.\n\nThe British cooperative movement formed the Co-operative Party in the early 20th century to represent members of consumers' cooperatives in Parliament, which was the first of its kind. The Co-operative Party now has a permanent electoral pact with the Labour Party meaning someone cannot be a member if they support a party other than Labour. Plaid Cymru also run a credit union that is constituted as a co-operative, called the 'Plaid Cymru Credit Union'. UK cooperatives retain a strong market share in food retail, insurance, banking, funeral services, and the travel industry in many parts of the country, although this is still significantly lower than other business models.\n\nThe Cooperative NATCCO Party (Coop-NATCCO) is a party-list in the Philippines which serves as the electoral wing of the National Confederation of Cooperatives (NATCCO). Coop-NATCCO has represented the Philippine co-operative sector in the Philippine 11th Congress since 1998.\n\nSince cooperatives are based on values like self-help, democracy, equality, equity, and solidarity, they can play a particularly strong role in empowering women, especially in developing countries. Cooperatives allow women who might have been isolated and working individually to band together and create economies of scale as well as increase their own bargaining power in the market. In statements in advance of International Women's Day in early 2013, President of the International Cooperative Alliance, Dame Pauline Green, said, \"Cooperative businesses have done so much to help women onto the ladder of economic activity. With that comes community respect, political legitimacy and influence.\"\n\nHowever, despite the supposed democratic structure of cooperatives and the values and benefits shared by members, due to gender norms on the traditional role of women, and other instilled cultural practices that sidestep attempted legal protections, women suffer a disproportionately low representation in cooperative membership around the world. Representation of women through \"active\" membership (showing up to meetings and voting), as well as in leadership and managerial positions is even lower.\n\n, the number of memberships in cooperatives reached one billion, and so the organizational structure and movement has seeped into popular culture.\n\nIn the HBO drama television series \"The Wire\", several drug dealers create a democratic alliance called the New Day Co-Op with the interests of cutting back on violence and increasing business.\n\nCo-opoly: The Game of Cooperatives is a popular board game played around the world that challenges players to work together to start and run a cooperative and overcome major hurdles.\n\n\"My So-Called Housing Cooperative\" is a web series focusing on the humorous side of living in a housing co-op.\n\n"}
{"id": "38404797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38404797", "title": "Crime in France", "text": "Crime in France\n\nCrime in France is combated by a range of French law enforcement agencies.\n\nThough France homicide rate fluctuated substantially in recent years, it tended to decrease through 2000 - 2014 period ending at 1.2 cases per 100,000 population in 2014\nSince 2014 several high-profile fatal terror attacks have happened in France, including the January 2015 Ile-de-France attacks, the November 2015 Paris attacks, the 2016 Magnanville stabbing, the 2016 Nice attack, the 2016 Normandy church attack, and the 2018 Paris knife attack. These attacks have been one of the reasons for the homicide rate fluctuation after 2014.\n\nIn September 2018, a police chief was brutally stabbed to death in the city of Rodez. \"The attacker was known to police. He had defaced the city hall door on 11 April,\" said Christian Teyssèdre, the Mayor of Rodez.\n\nIn 1971, the rape rate stood at 2.0 per 100,000 people.While in 1995, it was 12.5. In 2009, it stood at 16.2. According to a 2012 report, about 75,000 rapes take place each year.\n\nAccording to a 2014 article, about 5,000 to 7,000 of the rapes are gang rapes.\n\nThe Milieu is a category of organized criminals operating in France. These groups are quite often not ethnically French. Criminal groups associated with the \"Milieu\" work in every major city in France, but are mostly concentrated in Marseille, Grenoble, Paris, and Lyon.\n\nIn 2011, Transparency International concluded in its annual report for 2011 that France does not do enough to stop corruption. A TNS Sofres poll in October 2011 indicated that 72% of the French public had the perception that politicians are corrupt.\n\nIn August 2012 the French Government announced the creation of fifteen \"Priority Security Zones (PSZ)\" in an effort to target crime hotspots. Extra police, riot police, detectives and members of the intelligence services are to be mobilised. Social services, educational bodies and charities also put extra resources into the selected areas.\n\nThe Neuhof area of Strasbourg was selected because of a need to tackle violent crime, and the historic rural town of Chambly to the north of Paris is being focused on because of rising burglary rates and car theft. The northern quarter of Amiens in the Somme region and areas of Seine-Saint-Denis to the north of Paris, which witnessed fierce rioting in 2005, are priority zones because of widespread drug dealing and a rampant black market.\n\nViolent crime is relatively uncommon in the city center. Pickpockets are the most significant problem and are commonly children under the age of 16 because they are difficult to prosecute. Pickpockets are very active on the rail link from Charles de Gaulle Airport to the city center.\n\nThe Paris Police Prefecture publishes a pamphlet entitled \"Paris in Complete Safety\" that provides practical advice and useful telephone numbers for visitors.In an emergency, dialing 17 will connect the caller to the police. You can also dial the Europe-wide emergency response number 112 to reach an operator for all kinds of emergency services (similar to the U.S. and Canadian 911 system). Non-French speakers may experience a delay while an English speaker is located.\n\nIn 2010, French interior minister Brice Hortefeux said that 85% of gang members in France were around Paris.\n\nIn 2014, thousands of demonstrators protested the Israeli-Gaza Conflict for over a week. During several instances rioters shouted anti-Semitic chants and attacked Jews while ransacking Jewish Synagogues and Jewish owned businesses.Large demonstrations in Paris are generally managed by a strong police presence, but such events have the potential to become dangerous. Likewise, some sporting events, such as soccer matches, have occasionally degenerated into violence have continued into the streets.\n\nIn 2017,a Russian performance artist was detained in Paris after setting fire to the front of a branch of France's central bank, [13], On 03/10, in an affluent neighbourhood near the Paris Saint-Germain's football ground, the police found four gas canisters doused with petrol and wired to connect to a mobile phone.\nThe government has suspected bomb-making equipment found and arrests have been made in France and Spain \n"}
{"id": "7435879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7435879", "title": "Czechs of Romania", "text": "Czechs of Romania\n\nThe Czechs (, , ) are an ethnic minority in Romania, numbering 3,938 people according to the 2002 census. The majority of Romanian Czechs live in the south-west of the country, with around 60% of them living in Caraş-Severin County, where they make up 0.7% of the population.\n\nAs an officially recognised ethnic minority, Czechs, together with Slovaks, have one seat reserved in the Romanian Chamber of Deputies associated within Democratic Union of Slovaks and Czechs of Romania.\n\n\nThere are six villages with a Czech majority. Five are in Caraș-Severin County: Bigăr, Berzasca Commune; Gârnic, Gârnic Commune; Ravensca, Şopotu Nou Commune; Sfânta Elena, Coronini Commune; and Șumița, Lăpuşnicel Commune. One is in Mehedinți County: Eibenthal, Dubova Commune.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15717", "title": "Demographics of Jordan", "text": "Demographics of Jordan\n\nJordanians (Arabic: أردنيون), also known as the Jordanian people (Arabic: الشعب الأردني ALA-LC: \"al-sha‘ab al-ūrdunī\") are the citizens of Jordan, who share a common Levantine Semitic ancestry. Some 98% percent of Jordanians are Arabs, while the remaining 2% are other ethnic minorities.\n\nJordan has a population of approximately 9,531,712 inhabitants (Female: 47%; Males: 53%) as of 2015. Around 2.9 million were non-citizens, a figure including refugees, legal and illegal immigrants. Jordan's annual population growth rate stood at 2.05% in 2017, with an average of three children per woman. There were 1,977,534 households in Jordan in 2015, with an average of 4.8 persons per household.\n\nThe official language is Arabic, while English is the second most widely spoken language by Jordanians. It is also widely used in commerce and government. In 2016, about 84% of Jordan's population live in urban towns and cities. Many Jordanians and people of Jordanian descent live across the world, mainly in the United States, United Arab Emirates, Canada, France, Sweden and Spain.\n\nIn 2016, Jordan was named as the largest refugee hosting country per capita in the world, followed by Turkey, Pakistan and Lebanon. The kingdom of Jordan hosts refugees mainly from Palestine, Syria, Iraq and many other countries. There are also hundreds of thousands of workers from Egypt, Indonesia and South Asia, who work as domestic and construction workers.\n\nThe territory of Jordan can be defined by the history of its creation after the end of World War I, the League of Nations and redrawing of the borders of the Eastern Mediterranean littoral. The ensuing decisions, most notably the Sykes–Picot Agreement, which created the Mandatory Palestine. In September 1922, Transjordan was formally identified as a subdivision of the Mandate Palestine after the League of Nations approved the British Transjordan memorandum which stated that the Mandate east of the Jordan River would be excluded from all the provisions dealing with Jewish settlement west of the Jordan River.\n\nArab Jordanians are descended from prominent families in the historical cities and towns in Transjordan. Most notably in the governorates of Jerash, Ajlun, Balqa, Irbid, Madaba, Al Karak, Aqaba, Amman and some other towns in the country. Most of the native Christian population in the country belongs to this ethnicity or to the Bedouin ethnicity.\n\nThe Druze people are believed to constitute about 0.5% of the total population of Jordan, which is around 32,000. The Druze, who refer to themselves as al-Muwahhideen, or \"believers in one God,\" are concentrated in the rural, mountainous areas west and north of Amman.\n\nThe other group of Jordanians is descended from Bedouins (of which, less than 1% live a nomadic lifestyle). Bedouin settlements are concentrated in the wasteland south and east of the country.\n\nThere were an estimated 5,000 Armenians living within the country in 2009. An estimated 4,500 of these are members of the Armenian Apostolic Church, and predominantly speak the Western dialect of the Armenian language. This population makes up the majority of non-Arab Christians in the country.\n\nThere is an Assyrian refugee population in Jordan. Many Assyrians have arrived in Jordan as refugees since the invasion of Iraq, making up a large part of the Iraqi refugees.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the Ottoman Authorities directed the Circassian immigrants to settle in Jordan. The Circassians are Sunni Muslims and are estimated to number 20,000 to 80,000 persons.\n\nThere are about 10,000 Chechens estimated to reside in Jordan.\n\nJordan is a home to more than 2 million Palestinians refugees by 2015 who came after the 1948 & 1967 wars, and most of them, but not all, were granted Jordanian citizenship. Jordan also hosts around 1.4 million Syrian refugees who fled to the country due to the Syrian Civil War since 2011. About 31,163 Yemenis and 22,700 Libyan refugees live in Jordan as of January 2015. There are thousands of Lebanese refugees who came to Jordan when civil strife and war and the 2006 war broke out in their native country. Up to 1 million Iraqis came to Jordan following the Iraq War in 2003. In 2015, their number was 130,911. About 2,500 Iraqi Mandaean refugees have been resettled in Jordan.\n\nJordan prides itself on its health services, some of the best in the region. Qualified medics, favourable investment climate and Jordan's stability have contributed to the success of this sector.\n\nJordan has a very advanced education system. The school education system comprises 2 years of pre-school education, 10 years of compulsory basic education, and two years of secondary academic or vocational education, after which the students sit for the General Certificate of Secondary Education Exam (Tawjihi). Scholars may attend either private or public schools.\n\nAccess to higher education is open to holders of the General Secondary Education Certificate, who can then choose between private Community Colleges, public Community Colleges or universities (public and private). The credit-hour system, which entitles students to select courses according to a study plan, is implemented at universities. The number of public universities has reached (10), besides (17) universities that are private, and (51) community colleges. Numbers of universities accompanied by significant increase in number of students enrolled to study in these universities, where the number of enrolled students in both public and private universities is estimated at nearly (236) thousand; (28) thousand out of the total are from Arab or foreign nationalities.\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\n10,086,876 \n\nStructure of the population \n\nStructure of the population (01.10.2004) (Census) \n\nStructure of the population (31.12.2013) (Estimates) (Excluding foreigners, including registered Palestinian):\nrefugees. :\n\nBirths and deaths\n\nFertility Rate (The Demographic Health Survey) \nFertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and CBR (Crude Birth Rate):\n\n15–24 years (in 2015):\n15 years and older (in 2015):\n"}
{"id": "37501148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37501148", "title": "Electronic and Postal Communications Authority (Albania)", "text": "Electronic and Postal Communications Authority (Albania)\n\nThe Electronic and Postal Communications Authority ( or \"AKEP\") is the telecommunications regulator for Albania. It administers the \"Law on Electronic Communications\". It also manages the .al geographic top-level domain.\n\nIts office is located at Rr.Reshit Çollaku, Nr.43 in Tirana.\n"}
{"id": "18163135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18163135", "title": "English diaspora", "text": "English diaspora\n\nThe English diaspora consists of English people and their descendants who emigrated from England. The diaspora is concentrated in the English-speaking world in countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Scotland, Ireland, Wales and to a lesser extent, South Africa, South America (most notably in Argentina and Chile), and continental Europe.\n\nThe first organised large-scale English diaspora began when English Catholics exiled themselves from Henry VIII's religious policies to Hapsburg lands, especially the nearest Catholic intellectual centre, the University of Louvain (in present-day Belgium) which was by the late 1540s a bastion of ultra-orthodoxy. This was redoubled by a further wave of emigration under Edward VI's more radically Protestant regime.\n\nAfter the Age of Discovery the native peoples of England were among the earliest and by far the largest communities to emigrate out of Europe, and the British Empire's expansion during the first half of the 19th century saw an extraordinary dispersion of English people, with particular concentrations in North America and Australasia.\n\nThe British Empire was \"built on waves of migration overseas by British peoples\", who left Great Britain, later the United Kingdom, and reached across the globe and permanently affected population structures in three continents. As a result of the British colonisation of the Americas, what became the United States was \"easily the greatest single destination of emigrant British\", but in the Federation of Australia the British ethnic groups experienced a birth rate higher than anything seen before, resulting in the displacement of indigenous Australians.\n\nEnglish settlers arrived in Buenos Aires in 1806 (then a Spanish colony) in small numbers, mostly as businessmen, when Argentina was an emerging nation and the settlers were welcomed for the stability they brought to commercial life. As the 19th century progressed more English families arrived, and many bought land to develop the potential of the Argentine pampas for the large-scale growing of crops. The English founded banks, developed the export trade in crops and animal products and imported the luxuries that the growing Argentine middle classes sought.\n\nAs well as those who went to Argentina as industrialists and major landowners, others went as railway engineers, civil engineers and to work in banking and commerce. Others went to become whalers, missionaries and simply to seek out a future. English families sent second and younger sons, or what were described as the black sheep of the family, to Argentina to make their fortunes in cattle and wheat. English settlers introduced football to Argentina. Some English families owned sugar plantations.\n\nEnglish culture, or a version of it as perceived from outside, had a noted effect on the culture of Argentina, mainly in the middle classes. In 1888 local Anglo-Argentines established the Hurlingham Club, based on its namesake in London. The city of Hurlingham, Buenos Aires and Hurlingham Partido in Buenos Aires Province later grew up around the club and took their names from it. The Córdoba Athletic Club, one of the oldest sports clubs in Argentina, was founded in 1882 by Englishmen that lived in Córdoba working in the railways.\n\nThere are about 100,000 people of English descent in Argentina.\n\nIn the 2006 Canadian Census, 'English' was the most common ethnic origin (ethnic origin refers to the ethnic or cultural group(s) to which the respondent's ancestors belong) recorded by respondents; 6,570,015 people described themselves as wholly or partly English, 16% of the population. On the other hand, people identifying as \"Canadian\" but not English may have previously identified as English before the option of identifying as Canadian was available.\n\nChileans of English ancestry are estimated to number 700,000 (4% of the national population).\n\nSince the Port of Valparaíso opened its coasts to free trade in 1811, the English began to congregate in Valparaíso. The first to arrive brought with them tools, articles of china, wool and cotton, with instructions to return with copper and hemp. This was the first exchange of what would become a deep-rooted commercial relationship between the UK and Chile.\n\nIn the Valparaíso they constructed their largest and most important colony, bringing with them neighborhoods of English character, schools, social, sports clubs, business organizations and periodicals. This influence is apparent in unique areas of Chilean society today, such as the bank and the national marina, as well as in certain social activities popular in the country, such as football, horse racing, and drinking tea.\n\nThe English eventually numbered more than 32,000 during the port of Valparaíso's boom period during the saltpeter bonanza at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th centuries. The British colonial influence is important to understanding the boom and bust of the port of Valparaíso.\n\nThe English colony was also important in the northern zone of the country during the saltpeter boom, in the ports of Iquique and Pisagua. The \"King of Saltpeter\", John Thomas North, was the principal backer of nitrate mining. The English legacy was reflected in the streets of the historic district of the city of Iquique, with the foundation of various institutions, such as the Club Hípico (Racing Club). Nevertheless, said presence came to an end with the saltpeter crisis during the 1930s.\n\nAn important contingent of English immigrants also settled in the present-day region of Magallanes. In the same way, they established English families in other areas of the country, such as Santiago, Coquimbo, the Araucanía, and Chiloé.\n\nEnglish people along the Caribbean Coast, or Miskito Coast, of Nicaragua began in 1633. The area was controlled by Britain until 1860, and eventually integrated into Nicaragua by 1894. The Miskito Coast region divided into two autonomous regions within Nicaragua after 1987.\nThe first English settlers of the Miskito Coast arrived in 1633, exchanging products through primitive trade with the Miskitos. The English exchanged manufactured goods such as guns, machetes, beds, mirrors etc., in exchange for cocoa, animal skins, sarsaparilla, rubber, wood, and turtle shells. The formation of an English colony in the region led Spain to protest, but England managed to create a colony on the Caribbean Coast. This colony had two different, but complementary, production methods; one a capitalist basis and the other communal.\n\nThe English people in Paraguay mostly arrived during the colonial period as investors and industrialists. They were noted throughout the Southern cone region of Paraguay as being skilled farmers, investors, and bankers and as having created many of the regions railways and settled vast tracts of land.\n\nIn the modern day however it is assumed most have become a part of the wider Paraguayan ethnicity, although there are still some in Paraguay who identify as \"English\".\nThe English indirectly and probably inadvertently played a major part in Paraguay's continual existence, because the British Empire had invested heavily throughout South America, including Paraguay.\n\nEnglish Immigration began in the 1500s. Sir Walter Raleigh led expeditions to North America in order to found new settlements and find gold and named Virginia in honor of Elizabeth, the Virgin Queen. In 1585 Sir Walter Raleigh sent several shiploads of colonists to the 'New World', who settled on Roanoke Island. It was here that Eleanor White Dare gave birth to a daughter, Virginia Dare, the first child born of English parents in America. The first immigrants mysteriously disappeared and Roanoke was given the nickname of \"the Lost Colony\".\n\nEnglish settlement in America recommenced with Jamestown in the Virginia Colony in 1607. With the permission of James I, three ships (the \"Susan Constant, The Discovery\" and \"The God Speed\") sailed from England and landed at Cape Henry in April, under the captainship of Christopher Newport, who had been hired by the London Company to lead expeditions to what is now America.\nIn 1630 another religious group left England in search of religious freedom. This group was called the Puritans who represented the next wave of English Immigration to America. The 'Great Migration' between 1620 and 1640 to America led to the establishment of the first 13 Colonies. It is estimated that over 50,000 undertook the 3,000 mile journey to America during the Great Migration.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of the Founding Fathers of the United States of America were of English extraction, including Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, John Adams, James Madison and Thomas Jefferson.\n\nThe table shows the ethnic English population in the United States from 1700 to 2013. In 1700 the total population of the American colonies was 250,888 of which 223,071 (89%) were white and 80% were ethnically English and Welsh.\n\nIn the 2013 American Community Survey, English Americans were (7.7%) of the total United States population behind the German Americans at (14.6%) and Irish Americans at (10.5%).\n\nHowever, demographers regard this as a serious undercount, as the index of inconsistency is high and many, if not most, people from English stock have a tendency (since the introduction of a new 'American' category in the 2000 census) to identify as simply Americans or if of mixed European ancestry, identify with a more recent and differentiated ethnic group. In the 1980 United States Census, over 49 million (49,598,035) Americans claimed English ancestry, at the time around 26.34% of the total population and largest reported group which, even today, would make them the largest ethnic group in the United States. Six out of the ten most common surnames in the United States are of English origin, the other four are of Welsh and Spanish origin. Scots-Irish Americans are descendants of Lowland Scots and Northern English (specifically: County Durham, Cumberland, Northumberland and Westmorland) settlers who colonised Ireland during the Plantation of Ulster in the 17th century.\n\nAmericans of English heritage are often seen, and identify, as simply \"American\" due to the many historic cultural ties between England and the U.S. and their influence on the country's population. Relative to ethnic groups of other European origins, this may be due to the early establishment of English settlements; as well as to non-English groups having emigrated in order to establish significant communities.\n\nAustralia's biggest city Sydney was founded by the British government as a penal colony. Visitors described the English character of Sydney for at least the first 50 years after 1788, noting the traditional English appearance of the churches overlooking the convict barracks. First-generation Sydney residents, other than the disappearing Aborigines, were predominantly English. 160,000 convicts came to Australia between 1788 and 1850. Between 1788 and 1840, 80,000 English convicts were transported to New South Wales, with the greatest numbers coming between 1825 and 1835. The New South Wales Census of 1846 accounted for 57,349 born in England.\n\nFrom the beginning of the colonial era until the mid-20th century, the vast majority of settlers to Australia were from the British Isles, with the English being the dominant group, followed by the Irish and Scottish. Among the leading ancestries, increases in Australian, Irish, and German ancestries and decreases in English, Scottish, and Welsh ancestries appear to reflect such shifts in perception or reporting. These reporting shifts at least partly resulted from changes in the design of the census question, in particular the introduction of a tick box format in 2001.\n\nUntil 1859, 2.2 million (73%) of the free settlers who immigrated were British.\n\nAustralians of English descent, are both the single largest ethnic group in Australia and the largest 'ancestry' identity in the Australian census.\nIn the 2016 census, 7.8 million or 25.0% of respondents identified as \"English\" or a combination including English, a numerical increase from 7.2 million over the 2011 census figure. The census also documented 907,572 residents or 3.9% of Australia as being born in England, and are the largest overseas-born population.\n\nEnglish migrants and English Australians were by far the single most influential ethnic group in colonial Australia. The founding of Australia by English people is still evident in place names, buildings and street layouts, and that 80 percent of the population speak English as their mother tongue and the low church hegemony in the Anglican Diocese of Sydney, the biggest in the country.\n\nNew Zealand's foundational culture was English, given the strong representation in the mid and late-nineteenth century with the English being the largest in migration inflows.\nA 19th-century English company the \"New Zealand Company\" played a key role in the colonisation of New Zealand. The company was formed to carry out the principles of systematic colonisation devised by Edward Gibbon Wakefield, who envisaged the creation of a new-model English society in the southern hemisphere.\n\nFrom 1840 the English comprised the largest single group among New Zealand’s overseas-born, consistently being over 50 percent, sometimes 60 percent of those who were born in the United Kingdom and Ireland.\nDespite their prominence as migrants, at no point after the early 1850s did the English-born constitute a majority of the colonial population. In the 1851 Census 54.8% of the total population were born in England, this proportion fell to 36.5% (1861) and 24.3% by 1881. In the most recent Census in 2013, there were 215,589 English-born representing 21.5% of all overseas-born residents or around 5 percent of the total population and is still the most-common birthplace outside New Zealand.\n\nJames Cook claimed New Zealand for Britain on his arrival in 1769. The establishment of British colonies in Australia from 1788 and the boom in whaling and sealing in the Southern Ocean brought many Europeans to the vicinity of New Zealand. By 1830 there was a population of about 800 non Māori which included a total of about 200 runaway convicts and seamen. The seamen often lived in New Zealand for a short time before joining another ship a few months later. In 1839 there were 1100 Europeans living in the North Island. \nThe Canterbury Association was founded in London on 27 March 1848 and incorporated by Royal Charter on 13 November 1849. They recruited settlers from the south of England, creating a definite English influence over that region. In the 1860s most migrants settled in the South Island due to gold discoveries and the availability of flat grass covered land for pastoral farming.\n\nPlantations in 16th- and 17th-century Ireland were the confiscation of land by the English crown and the colonisation of this land with settlers from England (particularly the Border Counties) and the Scottish Lowlands. They followed smaller-scale immigration to Ireland as far back as the 12th century, which had resulted in a distinct ethnicity in Ireland known as the Old English.\n\nThe 16th-century plantations were established throughout the country by the confiscation of lands occupied by Gaelic clans and Hiberno-Norman dynasties, but principally in the provinces of Munster and Ulster. The Crown granted these lands to colonists (\"planters\") from England. This process began during the reign of Henry VIII and continued under Mary I and Elizabeth I. It was accelerated under James I, Charles I and Oliver Cromwell; in their time, land was also granted to Scottish planters.\n\nThe early plantations in the 16th century tended to be based on small \"exemplary\" colonies. The later plantations were based on mass confiscations of land from Irish landowners and the subsequent importation of numerous settlers and labourers from England and Wales, and later from Scotland.\nThe final official plantations were established under the English Commonwealth and Cromwell's Protectorate during the 1650s, when thousands of Parliamentarian soldiers were settled in Ireland. Apart from the plantations, significant immigration into Ireland continued well into the 18th century, from both Great Britain and continental Europe.\nThe plantations changed the demography of Ireland by creating large communities with a British and Protestant identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "21339283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21339283", "title": "Food competition", "text": "Food competition\n\nFood or drink competitions reward products primarily for their \"gustative worth\" in the form of an award or a medal. These competitions can be classified into different categories, and most awards are product-specific, such as for wines, beers, and cheeses. Others focus on local, regional and/or national products. Finally, the international competitions test all kinds of foods and drinks available to consumers on a retail basis. Wine is probably the most tested drink, followed by beer and spirits.\n\nThere is a variety of such food and drink competitions worldwide, where the taste and quality of products are assessed. Most evaluations are carried out blind, sometimes complemented by laboratory analysis. The jury usually consists of a panel of different types of \"experts\" in tastings such as chefs or sommeliers. \n\nThe history of degustation tests is unclear; however, one of the earliest taste awards recorded for drinks is the Brewing Industry International Awards, dating back to 1888. For food, Monde Selection is the oldest award recorded, first run in 1961. Since then, as the variety of food products on the market has grown, so has the number of competitions and evaluations.\n\nMonde Selection states that \"This bronze, silver, gold or grand gold quality label can be compared to the quality stars of a hotel or those of the Michelin Guide.\" However, whilst both processes are anonymous, Michelin chooses the hotels and restaurants it reviews and pays for everything. Only products who pay the Euro 1,100 entry fee are reviewed by Monde Selection. Unlike Olympic gold, silver and bronze medals, where only one of each is awarded per event, there are no limits to how many can be awarded in each category. Other competitions use a similar business model.\n\nMost awarding organizations charge an entry fee. Alternatively, for some awards, producers or retailers pay a fee only if their products are awarded and/or they decide to communicate about the award (payment for the right to show the award on packaging). \n\nIn both cases, one might think that these recognitions can be bought. However, tastings are carried out independently and are blind-tested, where judges focus exclusively on sensory (organoleptic) features, such as taste, olfaction, vision, aspect, mouth-feel, after-taste, without being influenced by packaging, branding or marketing. Of course, only producers who pay the entry fee can make use of any award made.\n\nThese are all pay to enter:\n\n"}
{"id": "26781520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26781520", "title": "Frisbee (sculpture)", "text": "Frisbee (sculpture)\n\nFrisbee, is a public artwork by American artist Patrick Villiers Farrow, located on the Middlebury College campus center green, in front of Monroe Hall in Middlebury, Vermont, United States. The overall dimensions of this bronze sculpture are tall, long, and wide. It is attached to an underground concrete foundation. The sculpture was cast by Agros Art Casting Foundry, Brewster, New York and dedicated in 1989.\n\n\"Frisbee\" depicts a dog leaping into the air, with three legs off the ground, catching a disc in its mouth. The dog's left hind leg is on the ground and its head is turned to the right.\n\nThe sculpture is signed by the artist on the underside of the disc along the rim, \"©1989 Patrick Villiers Farrow\". The founder's mark appears just after the artist's signature. An inscription, \"Frisbee A Gift to Middlebury College from Gary Merrill\" is also noted on the underside of the disc, along the rim. Inscribed on the raised rear paw on the toe pads are the names \"Matthew\" and \"Cameron\". The names refer to the donor's grandsons.\n\nAlthough who was truly first played frisbee is disputed, five members of the Middlebury College Delta Upsilon fraternity claim to have been the first to toss empty Frisbie Pie Company plates to each other while traveling through Nebraska in 1939. The sculpture commemorates the college's assertion. The tradition of playing frisbee on campus greens continues at Middlebury informally as well as through organized ultimate (sport) teams, the Middlebury Pranksters.\n\nThe sculpture was a gift to Middlebury College from Gary Merrill. The sculpture is maintained by the Middlebury College Museum of Art through the college's Committee on Art in Public Places.\n\nSelf-taught artist Patrick Villiers Farrow (1942–2009) was one of seven children born to actress Maureen O'Sullivan and film director John Farrow. Patrick Farrow moved to Vermont in 1964. Working in bronze and steel, his first solo exhibition was in Beverly Hills, California in 1967 and he became a Fellow of the National Sculpture Society in 1990.\n\nThis sculpture was documented in 1992 as part of Save Outdoor Sculpture!, a campaign organized by Heritage Preservation: The National Institute of Conservation partnered with the Smithsonian Institution, specifically the Smithsonian American Art Museum. Throughout the 1990s, over 7,000 volunteers cataloged and assessed the condition of over 30,000 publicly accessible statues, monuments, and sculptures installed as outdoor public art across the United States. In Vermont, the survey was sponsored by the Vermont Museum and Gallery Alliance from 1992-1993 where 110 volunteers surveyed 242 sculptures dating from 1740 to 1993. The archives from the project are maintained by the Vermont Historical Society.\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "26126668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26126668", "title": "History of the anti-nuclear movement", "text": "History of the anti-nuclear movement\n\nThe application of nuclear technology, both as a source of energy and as an instrument of war, has been controversial.\n\nScientists and diplomats have debated nuclear weapons policy since before the atomic bombing of Hiroshima in 1945. The public became concerned about nuclear weapons testing from about 1954, following extensive nuclear testing in the Pacific. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1963, many countries ratified the Partial Test Ban Treaty which prohibited atmospheric nuclear testing.\n\nSome local opposition to nuclear power emerged in the early 1960s, and in the late 1960s some members of the scientific community began to express their concerns. In the early 1970s, there were large protests about a proposed nuclear power plant in Wyhl, Germany. The project was cancelled in 1975 and anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired opposition to nuclear power in other parts of Europe and North America. Nuclear power became an issue of major public protest in the 1970s.\n\nIn 1945 in the New Mexico desert, American scientists conducted \"Trinity,\" the first nuclear weapons test, marking the beginning of the atomic age. Even before the Trinity test, national leaders debated the impact of nuclear weapons on domestic and foreign policy. Also involved in the debate about nuclear weapons policy was the scientific community, through professional associations such as the Federation of Atomic Scientists and the Pugwash Conference on Science and World Affairs.\n\nOn August 6, 1945, towards the end of World War II, the Little Boy device was detonated over the Japanese military city of Hiroshima. Exploding with a yield equivalent to 12,500 tonnes of TNT, the blast and thermal wave of the bomb destroyed nearly 50,000 buildings (including the headquarters of the 2nd General Army and Fifth Division) and killed approximately 75,000 people, among them 20,000 Japanese soldiers and 20,000 Korean slave laborers. Detonation of the Fat Man device exploded over the Japanese industrial city of Nagasaki three days later after Hiroshima, destroying 60% of the city and killing approximately 35,000 people, among them 23,200-28,200 Japanese munitions workers, 2,000 Korean slave laborers, and 150 Japanese soldiers. The two bombings remains the only events where nuclear weapons have been used in combat. Subsequently, the world's nuclear weapons stockpiles grew.\n\nOperation Crossroads was a series of nuclear weapon tests conducted by the United States at Bikini Atoll in the Pacific Ocean in the summer of 1946. Its purpose was to test the effect of nuclear weapons on naval ships. Pressure to cancel Operation Crossroads came from scientists and diplomats. Manhattan Project scientists argued that further nuclear testing was unnecessary and environmentally dangerous. A Los Alamos study warned \"the water near a recent surface explosion will be a witch's brew\" of radioactivity. To prepare the atoll for the nuclear tests, Bikini's native residents were evicted from their homes and resettled on smaller, uninhabited islands where they were unable to sustain themselves.\n\nRadioactive fallout from nuclear weapons testing was first drawn to public attention in 1954 when a Hydrogen bomb test in the Pacific contaminated the crew of the Japanese fishing boat \"Lucky Dragon\". One of the fishermen died in Japan seven months later. The incident caused widespread concern around the world and \"provided a decisive impetus for the emergence of the anti-nuclear weapons movement in many countries\". The anti-nuclear weapons movement grew rapidly because for many people the atomic bomb \"encapsulated the very worst direction in which society was moving\".\n\nPeace movements emerged in Japan and in 1954 they converged to form a unified \"Japanese Council Against Atomic and Hydrogen Bombs\". Japanese opposition to the Pacific nuclear weapons tests was widespread, and \"an estimated 35 million signatures were collected on petitions calling for bans on nuclear weapons\".\n\nGerman publications of the 1950s and 1960s contained criticism of some features of nuclear power including its safety. Nuclear waste disposal was widely recognized as a major problem, with concern publicly expressed as early as 1954. In 1964, one author went so far as to state \"that the dangers and costs of the necessary final disposal of nuclear waste could possibly make it necessary to forego the development of nuclear energy\".\n\nThe Russell–Einstein Manifesto was issued in London on July 9, 1955 by Bertrand Russell in the midst of the Cold War. It highlighted the dangers posed by nuclear weapons and called for world leaders to seek peaceful resolutions to international conflict. The signatories included eleven pre-eminent intellectuals and scientists, including Albert Einstein, who signed it just days before his death on April 18, 1955. A few days after the release, philanthropist Cyrus S. Eaton offered to sponsor a conference—called for in the manifesto—in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, Eaton's birthplace. This conference was to be the first of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, held in July 1957.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the first Aldermaston March organised by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament took place at Easter 1958, when several thousand people marched for four days from Trafalgar Square, London, to the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment close to Aldermaston in Berkshire, England, to demonstrate their opposition to nuclear weapons. The Aldermaston marches continued into the late 1960s when tens of thousands of people took part in the four-day marches.\n\nIn 1959, a letter in the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\" was the start of a successful campaign to stop the Atomic Energy Commission dumping radioactive waste in the sea 19 kilometres from Boston.\n\nOn November 1, 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. It was the largest national women's peace protest of the 20th century.\n\nIn 1958, Linus Pauling and his wife presented the United Nations with the petition signed by more than 11,000 scientists calling for an end to nuclear-weapon testing. The \"Baby Tooth Survey,\" headed by Dr Louise Reiss, demonstrated conclusively in 1961 that above-ground nuclear testing posed significant public health risks in the form of radioactive fallout spread primarily via milk from cows that had ingested contaminated grass. Public pressure and the research results subsequently led to a moratorium on above-ground nuclear weapons testing, followed by the Partial Test Ban Treaty, signed in 1963 by John F. Kennedy and Nikita Khrushchev. On the day that the treaty went into force, the Nobel Prize Committee awarded Pauling the Nobel Peace Prize, describing him as \"Linus Carl Pauling, who ever since 1946 has campaigned ceaselessly, not only against nuclear weapons tests, not only against the spread of these armaments, not only against their very use, but against all warfare as a means of solving international conflicts.\"\nPauling started the International League of Humanists in 1974. He was president of the scientific advisory board of the World Union for Protection of Life and also one of the signatories of the Dubrovnik-Philadelphia Statement.\n\nIn the United States, the first commercially viable nuclear power plant was to be built at Bodega Bay, north of San Francisco, but the proposal was controversial and conflict with local citizens began in 1958. The proposed plant site was close to the San Andreas Fault and close to the region's environmentally sensitive fishing and dairy industries. The Sierra Club became actively involved. The conflict ended in 1964, with the forced abandonment of plans for the power plant. Historian Thomas Wellock traces the birth of the anti-nuclear movement to the controversy over Bodega Bay. Attempts to build a nuclear power plant in Malibu were similar to those at Bodega Bay and were also abandoned.\n\nIn 1966, Larry Bogart founded the Citizens Energy Council, a coalition of environmental groups that published the newsletters \"Radiation Perils,\" \"Watch on the A.E.C.\" and \"Nuclear Opponents\". These publications argued that \"nuclear power plants were too complex, too expensive and so inherently unsafe they would one day prove to be a financial disaster and a health hazard\".\n\nThe emergence of the anti-nuclear power movement was \"closely associated with the general rise in environmental consciousness which had started to materialize in the USA in the 1960s and quickly spread to other Western industrialized countries\". Some nuclear experts began to voice dissenting views about nuclear power in 1969, and this was a necessary precondition for broad public concern about nuclear power to emerge. These scientists included Ernest Sternglass from Pittsburg, Henry Kendall from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Nobel laureate George Wald and radiation specialist Rosalie Bertell. These members of the scientific community \"by expressing their concern over nuclear power, played a crucial role in demystifying the issue for other citizens\", and nuclear power became an issue of major public protest in the 1970s.\n\nIn 1971, 15,000 people demonstrated against French plans to locate the first light-water reactor power plant in Bugey. This was the first of a series of mass protests organized at nearly every planned nuclear site in France.\n\nAlso in 1971, the town of Wyhl, in Germany, was a proposed site for a nuclear power station. In the years that followed, public opposition steadily mounted, and there were large protests. Television coverage of police dragging away farmers and their wives helped to turn nuclear power into a major issue. In 1975, an administrative court withdrew the construction licence for the plant, but the Wyhl occupation generated ongoing debate. This initially centred on the state government's handling of the affair and associated police behaviour, but interest in nuclear issues was also stimulated. The Wyhl experience encouraged the formation of citizen action groups near other planned nuclear sites. Many other anti-nuclear groups formed elsewhere, in support of these local struggles, and some existing citizen action groups widened their aims to include the nuclear issue. Anti-nuclear success at Wyhl also inspired nuclear opposition in the rest of Europe and North America.\n\nIn 1972, the anti-nuclear weapons movement maintained a presence in the Pacific, largely in response to French nuclear testing there. Activists, including David McTaggart from Greenpeace, defied the French government by sailing small vessels into the test zone and interrupting the testing program. In Australia, thousands joined protest marches in Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Sydney. Scientists issued statements demanding an end to the tests; unions refused to load French ships, service French planes, or carry French mail; and consumers boycotted French products. In Fiji, activists formed an Against Testing on Mururoa organization.\n\nIn Spain, in response to a surge in nuclear power plant proposals in the 1960s, a strong anti-nuclear movement emerged in 1973, which ultimately impeded the realisation of most of the projects.\n\nIn 1974, organic farmer Sam Lovejoy took a crowbar to the weather-monitoring tower which had been erected at the Montague Nuclear Power Plant site. Lovejoy felled the tower and then took himself to the local police station, where he took full responsibility for the action. Lovejoy's action galvanized local public opinion against the plant. The Montague project was canceled in 1980, after $29 million was spent on the project.\n\nBy the mid-1970s anti-nuclear activism had moved beyond local protests and politics to gain a wider appeal and influence. Although it lacked a single co-ordinating organization, and did not have uniform goals, the movement's efforts gained a great deal of attention. Jim Falk has suggested that popular opposition to nuclear power quickly grew into an effective anti-nuclear power movement in the 1970s. In some countries, the nuclear power conflict \"reached an intensity unprecedented in the history of technology controversies\".\n\nIn France, between 1975 and 1977, some 175,000 people protested against nuclear power in ten demonstrations.\n\nIn West Germany, between February 1975 and April 1979, some 280,000 people were involved in seven demonstrations at nuclear sites. Several site occupations were also attempted. In the aftermath of the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, some 120,000 people attended a demonstration against nuclear power in Bonn.\n\nIn May 1979, an estimated 70,000 people, including the governor of California, attended a march and rally against nuclear power in Washington, D.C.\n\nOn June 12, 1982, one million people demonstrated in New York City's Central Park against nuclear weapons and for an end to the cold war arms race. It was, and is, the largest anti-nuclear protest and the largest peace demonstration in American history. International Day of Nuclear Disarmament protests were held on June 20, 1983 at 50 sites across the United States. In 1986, hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington DC in the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament. There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nOn May 1, 2005, 40,000 anti-nuclear/anti-war protesters marched past the United Nations in New York, 60 years after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This was the largest anti-nuclear rally in the U.S. for several decades. In Britain, there were many protests about the government's proposal to replace the aging Trident weapons system with a newer model. The largest protest had 100,000 participants and, according to polls, 59 percent of the public opposed the move.\n\nThe International Conference on Nuclear Disarmament took place in Oslo in February 2008, and was organized by The Government of Norway, the Nuclear Threat Initiative and the Hoover Institute. The Conference was entitled \"Achieving the Vision of a World Free of Nuclear Weapons\" and had the purpose of building consensus between nuclear weapon states and non-nuclear weapon states in relation to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.\n\nIn May 2010, some 25,000 people, including members of peace organizations and 1945 atomic bomb survivors, marched for about two kilometers from downtown New York to the United Nations headquarters, calling for the elimination of nuclear weapons.\n\nEarly anti-nuclear advocates expressed the view that affluent lifestyles on a global scale strain the viability of the natural environment and that nuclear energy would enable those lifestyles. Examples of such expressions are:\n"}
{"id": "35023267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35023267", "title": "Indian immigrants in Sweden", "text": "Indian immigrants in Sweden\n\nIndians in Sweden are citizens and residents of Sweden who are of Indian descent. \n\nDuring the period of 2001 to 2010, a total of 7,870 Indian students came for higher studies in Sweden taking advantage of the high quality tuition-free education system. According to Statistics Sweden, as of 2016, there are a total 25,719 India-born immigrants living in Sweden. Most of these people of Indian origin are Maharashtrians, Punjabis, Bengalis, Gujaratis, and South Indians. Some Indians sought and obtained political asylum after 1984. Some Indians have come to Sweden from Uganda in the 1970s \n\nAccording to Statistics Sweden, India is among the most common countries of birth for international adoptions in Sweden. As of 2016, there are 1,017 India-born children and young adults aged 0-21 who are adopted in Sweden.\n\nAccording to the Institute of Labor Economics, as of 2014, India-born immigrants residing in Sweden have a labor force participation rate of approximately 54%. Their employment population ratio is about 49%. They also have an unemployment rate of around 6%.\n\n"}
{"id": "29245782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29245782", "title": "Indians in Bangladesh", "text": "Indians in Bangladesh\n\nThere are hundreds of thousands of Indians in Bangladesh, most of whom are illegal migrants and refugees. According to data produced by the Bangladeshi Ministry of Home Affairs, as many as 500,000 Indians were staying in Bangladesh illegally in 2009. They were found working in different establishments such as NGOs, garments, textile, IT and sent money back home through hundi transfer systems.\n\nIn 2012, Bangladesh was the fifth among the nations sending highest remittances to India. Indians working in Bangladesh sent more than $3.7 billion back to India in 2012. Making Bangladesh the 5th largest source of remittance in India. This is the official figure while the unofficial figure is estimated to be significantly more. Most of them came on tourist visas and tended to stay back.\n\nThe migrant community has often been a source of contention between the two countries; according to available reports, the lakhs of Indians illegally staying in the country hailed from the Indian states of West Bengal, Meghalaya, Assam, Tripura and Mizoram and were spread across numerous urban and rural areas.\n\nOn July 2016, four thousand Indians took refuge in Lalmonirhat, Bangladesh after floods in West Bengal, India.\n\n"}
{"id": "8340480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8340480", "title": "Industrial production", "text": "Industrial production\n\nIndustrial production is a measure of output of the industrial sector of the economy. The industrial sector includes manufacturing, mining, and utilities. Although these sectors contribute only a small portion of gross domestic product (GDP), they are highly sensitive to interest rates and consumer demand. This makes industrial production an important tool for forecasting future GDP and economic performance. Industrial production figures are also used by central banks to measure inflation, as high levels of industrial production can lead to uncontrolled levels of consumption and rapid inflation.The Industrial productions came about during the Industrial revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "12889077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12889077", "title": "Interpersonal communication relationship dissolution", "text": "Interpersonal communication relationship dissolution\n\nThe interpersonal communication that occurs during a relationship deterioration/dissolution looks to explain the possible \"why\" behind the relationship breakup and the communication steps that a breakup seems to follow. Studies have looked at the predictors of breakups, the breakup process, the strategies employed, the impact of the breakups, and finally the process to move on emotionally from the broken relationship.\n\nRelationship dissolution \"refers to the process of the breaking up of relationships (friendship, romantic, or marital relationships) by the voluntary activity of at least one partner.\" This article examines two types of relationship dissolution, the non-marital breakup and the marital breakup. The differences are how they are experienced, how they must be studied and how they might survive. Nonmarital breakups help us understand the nature of the issues involved and the patterns of grief experienced, they are meaningful to both persons, creating crisis in intimacy, personal and social development and future commitment expectations. Surviving a nonmarital breakup provides the opportunity to self-discovery, generosity, dignity and nobility of grief, and the promise of recovery (Weber, 1992). In marital breakups, more negotiation and delayed dissolution may occur because of the presence of children (Johnson, 1982) called a barrier force. Not all breakups should be considered a \"failure\", because they didn't last long enough or hit yearly marks as dictated by society. Some breakups may serve a distinct, positive change for one of the partners if there is abuse or other negative factors in the relationship.\n\nNo relationship is established with the thought that it will end with heartache and grief, at least experienced by one of the couple. Why do we bother if the common belief is that at least 50% or more marriages end in divorce? Jones & Burdette, 1994, state in their work that we face two daunting risks when we pursue an intimate relationship with another: rejection and betrayal. This is countered with our social need to belong which usually trumps the risks. Hill, Rubin, and Peplau conducted a study in 1976 where 231 heterosexual couples agreed to complete a questionnaire about their relationship for two years. Only 128 couples survived the two years together, but it was the information gathered from the 103 couples that provided substantial information on breakup factors.\n\n\nHill et al. (1976) found that the peak season for a breakup is when there are changes in one's life, which may force the relationship to be examined as to whether it can be sustained over time, distance, or other change in lifestyle. Women were more likely to be the initiators of change.\n\n\nSteve Duck (1981) developed a topographical model of relationship disengagement and dissolution, whether married or not, in which he outlined four models of dissolution: pre-existing doom, mechanical failure, process loss and sudden death.\n\n\n\n\nNew information on a partner can produce sudden death of the new relationship with a trust violation. Davis (1973) described three conditions that produce \"sudden death\" in a relationship: two-sided subsidence, in which both members of the couple maintain a formal relationship with no intimacy; one-sided subsidence, where one partner is dependent and hangs on, while the other actively seeks to end the relationship; and zero-sided subsidence which is an abrupt ending primarily brought on by outside factors that makes retreat or repair impossible.\n\nThere are at least fifteen strategies used to terminate relationships and are set apart by whether they are unilateral or bilateral and indirect or direct (Baxter, 1982, 1984).\n\n\n\n\n\nSteve Duck's (1982) four stages of relationship dissolution, each very distinctive with specific components, are moved through once one or both of the partners have crossed a cognitive threshold.\n\nIntrapsychic stage begins with one partner who is dissatisfied and secretively searches for a way to \"fix\" the relationship. Vaughan (1986) states that uncoupling begins with a secret, and Duck asserts that the secret of unhappiness is kept that way through the intrapsychic stage.\n\nDyadic stage where the dissatisfied partner decides to fix the problem by confronting the other partner, thus entering into uncharted territory. This may not fix what is wrong and just continue to draw out the relationship until the unhappy partner becomes determined to depart, which will move the relationship into the next phase.\n\nSocial stage is when the partners devise their accounts of how the breakup happened and how they will present it to their social circles. If it is in fact the end, they will cross over into the final phase of relationship dissolution.\n\nGrave-dressing stage is simply the \"attempt to bury and describe the relationship\" stage. Partners now create an acceptable story about their love and loss, do whatever cognitive work, including introspection, attribution, rationalization, and reassessment of self and other, which is necessary in order to get over the deceased relationship.\n\nStephanie Rollie and Steve Duck (2006) subsequently modified the original model after a critique of stage models that appear to suppose an orderly and relatively conscious progression through the above stages. Proposing instead five phases of breakdown, Rollie and Duck added a Resurrection Phase which was placed after \"Grave Dressing\" and represented the period of reconfiguration of self and preparation for new relationships. In the modified proposal, the authors articulated changes to communication patterns and topics that would typify each phase, but clarified that the result of the communication could at any time be not simply progression to the next phase of break up but reversion to an earlier state of the relationship.\n\nHarvey (1996) explains that when you experience a loss or a depletion of resources, you may need some time to sort out what you had in the first place, what was given up in the breakup, and what remains for you to rely on, cherish or use. Grief is not a passive experience but a series of active choices for the grieving person to confront and resolve in either the direction of healing or prolonged suffering (Neeld, 1990).\n\nWeber (1998) outlines the following central tasks for dealing with grief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3524820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3524820", "title": "Jaitawat", "text": "Jaitawat\n\nThe Jaitawats are a subgoup of the Rajputs of India.\n"}
{"id": "46614968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46614968", "title": "Kabedon", "text": "Kabedon\n\nKabedon or Kabe-Don (; \"Kabe\", \"wall\", and \"Don\", \"bang\") refers to the action of slapping a wall fiercely, which produces the sound \"don\". One meaning is the action of slapping the wall as a protest which occurs in collective housing like condominiums when the next room makes noise. Another meaning often appears in shōjo manga or anime when a man forces a woman against the wall with one hand or leans against the wall and makes the sound of \"don\", and this has become popular as a \"clever move of confession\".\n\nIn Japan, Kabedon mainly appears in plots of girls' manga or anime when a man forces the woman against the wall; at the same time, his hand slaps the wall and surrounds the woman, and the sound of \"don\" is produced.\n\nIn Japan, the walls of many accommodation buildings are thin and not insulated against sound. As such, simple actions like closing a door or turning on the television can easily be heard by neighbors. When this noise becomes too loud to bear, Japanese people tend to bang their connecting walls in protest.\n\nKabedon first appeared in 2008 when voice actor Ryōko Shintani described it as \"lovely situation\". Since then, it has also been used in the shōjo manga \"L DK\" by the author Watanabe Ayu; and in April 2014, the manga was adapted into a live-action film. Afterwards, the term started to become familiar to the public and often appears in girls' manga, and is also widely popular among female high school students.\n\n"}
{"id": "4917020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4917020", "title": "Kerarish people", "text": "Kerarish people\n\nKerarish is an ethnic group of Darfur and Kordofan in Sudan. They speak Sudanese Arabic. The population of this ethnicity is at several 10,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "10111278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10111278", "title": "King's College London–UCL rivalry", "text": "King's College London–UCL rivalry\n\nThe rivalry between King's College London and University College London has been a part of London life for nearly two centuries. It has been expressed in the academic sphere, on the sports field and in the rivalry of the student populations. It can be traced to their foundation in the 1820s when King's College was established as the Anglican counterpart to the secular University College.\n\nKing's College was founded in 1829 in response to the founding of \"London University\", latterly known as University College London, in 1826. UCL was founded, with the backing of Jews, Utilitarians and non-Anglican Christians, as a secular institution, intended to educate \"the youth of our middling rich people between the ages of 15 or 16 and 20 or later\". The principal objective of King's College was \"to imbue the minds of youth with a knowledge of the doctrines and duties of Christianity, as inculcated by the United Church of England and Ireland\". At King's, attendance at college chapel and the study of Christianity formed an important part of college life.\n\nThe rivalry can be glimpsed in the second verse of an 1820s satirical song set to the music of the British national anthem:\n\nOne of the earliest potentially violent consequences of the contrasting styles and purposes of the two colleges arose when the Earl of Winchilsea, one of the principal financial donors to the fledgling King's College, accused its leading patron, the Duke of Wellington, of seeking to water down the orthodox, Protestant, character of the new College.\n\nWellington had recently played a central role in securing Catholic Emancipation and Winchilsea, an opponent of emancipation, feared that he planned to turn King's College London into a 'Catholic Seminary' as the new college was to place no religious test for entry. Early in 1829 Winchilsea publicly challenged Wellington about the Duke's simultaneous support for the Anglican King's College and the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829. The result was a duel in Battersea Fields on 21 March. Shots were fired but no-one was hurt. Duel Day is still celebrated annually at King's in March.\n\nStudent Rags were manifestations of the rivalry between the two institutions and first became popular in the late nineteenth century. Student rags often featured cross-dressing and processions that mirrored official celebrations as a way of challenging authority whilst raising money for charity. Rags were \"colourful, subversive, and occasionally dangerous\" for both participants and bystanders and reached their height between the two World Wars. A long-running campaign of the rags were the attempts to capture each other's mascots. Running battles were supposedly brought to an end by the colleges' authorities in the first half of the twentieth century, but rivalry amongst the University of London's colleges continues to this day.\n\nEarly student social activity in London tended to be quite serious and worthy in its expression, characterised by programmes of lectures, debates and sporting fixtures. However, this began to change by the 1890s, which witnessed boisterous 'Town and Gown' antics by students which continued into Edwardian times.\n\nThe first real rag at King's occurred in 1912. Angry student anti-vivisectionists complained that a small dog had been vivisected repeatedly and unnecessarily and erected a statue of the animal in Battersea Park. Indignant students from London medical schools quickly moved to destroy the statue, in the course of which a struggle took place with police and some students arrested and fined. They later reconvened in the King's quad with an effigy of the offending magistrate that was set on fire and thrown into the river.\n\nThe First World War for some constituted a cultural watershed in attitudes to established authority. Many members of staff and students of British universities saw active service and the experience of the veteran undoubtedly influenced the progress of the student rag after the war. The rags of the 1920s were well attended and often organised with military precision. They received considerable press coverage not least for their impact on local communities\n\nEdith Summerskill, medical student at King's in the 1920s and later Minister of National Insurance, reflecting on the contrast between the informal behaviour of her contemporaries with the more serious post-1945 student, observed that, \"We were all too busy relaxing after the war, gayer, more high spirited and after a good time', going on to suggest that 'the 1914–18 war was far more terrible than this last war ... consequently the reaction after the war was more marked.\"\n\nRivalry in the twentieth century between students of the two colleges was centred on their respective mascots. University College's was Phineas Maclino, a wooden tobacconist's sign of a kilted Jacobite Highlander purloined from outside a shop in Tottenham Court Road during the celebrations of the Relief of Ladysmith in 1900.\n\nKing's later addition was a giant beer bottle representing \"bottled youth\". In December 1923 it was replaced by a new mascot to rival Phineas – Reggie the Lion, a copper lion from a junkyard (also off Tottenham Court Road) for whom King's students paid £7, that was christened Reggie at a special meeting. Reggie made his debut at a King's-UCL sporting rag in December 1923, protected by a lifeguard of engineering students armed with T-squares. Thereafter, Reggie formed the centrepiece of annual freshers' processions by King's students around Aldwych.\n\nReggie was the victim of repeated kidnapping attempts by UCL and other London colleges following the Second World War. On one occasion he was transported to Inverness and on another was ignominiously dumped at the Surrey beauty spot of the Devil's Punchbowl. The most notable episode involved his painful emasculation by UCL students armed with a tin opener. Thankfully, he was restored to full working order by a team of engineers and medics and filled with concrete to prevent further kidnap attempts by the Bloomsbury students. Likewise, UCL mascots have been kidnapped over the years, with the tarring and feathering of Phineas and the infamous theft of preserved Jeremy Bentham's head. Mascot theft has since died down with both university's mascots more securely protected.\n\nThe Interwar period witnessed the flourishing of the student rag and of the friendly rivalry between King's and UCL. College union societies greatly expanded their sporting, social and charitable activities at this time and in 1921 the University of London Union Society was formed as an umbrella organisation. Rags comprised well-organised kidnappings, the collection for charity by students dressed as the opposite sex or in elaborate costumes, processions and mock battles.\n\nThe contest between King's and UCL reached new levels in December 1922 when King's captured Phineas from his usual residence in Tottenham Court Road. When King's ignored an ultimatum demanding his return, hundreds of UCL students, transported in furniture vans from Bloomsbury or arriving at Aldwych tube station, stormed the King's quad.\n\nKing's was defended by the college gun, re-equipped with a powerful hose pipe, whilst Phineas stood on the college's main steps with a personal bodyguard of engineering students armed with rotten fruit and vegetables from the nearby Covent Garden Market. Having taken the precaution to switch off the college's water supply at the mains, UCL students engaged their rivals resulting in several injuries and the collapse of part of a King's College stone balustrade. Police were called and a truce was enforced.\n\nUCL and King's students then marched back to Gower Street in good spirits accompanied by the battered but dignified Phineas. The University College mascot soon disappeared again the following spring. King's was initially suspected but this time it was students of Caius College, Cambridge, who carried out the abduction.\n\nThe 1922 quad battle was viewed with alarm by the college authorities. The union reminded students that the quadrangle was a \"dangerous and unsuitable place for ... rags\" and the editor of the King's student journal went as far as to suggest a premeditated and deliberate aspect to the violence. It was, he said, \"a good rag ... but got out of hand. It is a pity that the blinding of Mr Johnson…has not taught us that there is a limit.\"\nThe collapse of the balustrade was widely reported in the press with the \"Daily News\" describing a \"Rag Beyond the Limit\" and speculating that a release of liquid oxygen stored below the accident area might have led to a violent explosion. King's principal and University College's provost both agreed that although it was a tradition that any damages caused by a rag should be borne by the students responsible, that in this instance the repair bill of £237 should be collectively shared by students of both colleges.\n\nTwo weeks of revelry characterised the 1927 rag. It began when UCL briefly captured Reggie and filled his body with rotten apples before returning him to King's. The response was swift: a contingent of female King's students drove to University College at dawn chanting, \"For Reggie!\" while their colleagues stole in via the rear entrance and captured a bust of Jeremy Bentham. The following day, King's students goaded their rivals by parading the bust outside University College.\n\nHostilities recommenced a week later centred on the UCL quad: the ammunition a variety of rotten eggs, fruit and vegetables. At least six students were injured and taken to nearby University College Hospital for treatment following the commencement of hostilities at 2 pm. King's were quickly reinforced by lorries carrying Covent Garden market refuse but many of their contingent, including Reggie, were trapped after police ordered the shutting of the UCL gates. Only a last minute scramble and the hauling of Reggie over the gates saved the King's commander-in-chief from the ignominy of capture and ransom.\n\nAs with the rag of 1922, the college authorities responded with a public tightening of discipline and a warning that \"any further disturbances created by the students of the college with students of University College will be regarded as a breach of discipline and treated accordingly.\"\n\nThe sports' ground at Mitcham became the scene of a rag between UCL and King's in December when rival groups hurled rotten fruit and vegetables from lorries. The encounter followed a secret operation the previous night when King's students had infiltrated UCL's grounds and tarred and feathered one of the statues in front of the entrance.\n\nThe rivalry was suspended during World War II because of the evacuation of faculties to provincial cities and the change in mood which was summed up by a representative at the British Students' congress at Leeds who spoke of the need for students to contribute to the war effort and not be viewed as 'dilettante idiots'.\n\nThe truce survived until 1950, when hostilities between the colleges broke out afresh during the Bonfire celebrations on 5 November. King's students stormed the UCL quad, setting fire to two large pyres and throwing fireworks from the college steps. While this was happening, two thousand UCL students circled Piccadilly Circus in painted lorries, to demand a lengthening of pub opening hours. Thirteen arrests followed when flour was thrown and a fight broke out over a stuffed kangaroo.\n\nThe last traditional rags took place in the 1950s. In 1952, police broke up a series of races in the Strand between King's and UCL students dressed as camels and a cow. More daringly, in 1956, King's Engineers grabbed Phineas from a cabinet in the University College Union after melting off its locks, the very day before the visit of the Queen Mother to inspect the Scottish Highlander. A tarred and feathered Phineas was restored with moments to spare.\n\nAcross the United Kingdom, student priorities began to change with the enlargement of the university sector in the 1960s. The growth of provincial higher education both enhanced the possibilities for the rag and the dangers of 'town and gown' tensions between permanent local, and transient student, populations. Universities across Britain tried to build bridges with local people, especially through fund raising initiatives for local charities. However, the 1960s, 70s and 80s all bore witness to a more politically aware student population with demonstrations and sit-ins against Vietnam, university cuts and the poll tax. In this more highly charged climate, the traditional rag might have looked anachronistic and somewhat juvenile.\n\nNevertheless, there remained a place for conventional high spirits, in particular occasioned by King's renewed participation in the Lord Mayor's Show.\n\nToday, annual RAG events take place in universities throughout the United Kingdom to raise money for charities. The days of the sometimes dangerous outcomes of Student Rags, such as the fate of visiting American temperance evangelist, \"Pussyfoot\" Johnson who lost an eye in a battle with King's students in 1919, are over.\n\nThe involvement of women in rags drew considerable comment during the 1920s. Under a headline \"Women and those 'Rags'\", a The Star reporter claimed in 1929 that most women students were disdainful of the activities. Miss Paul, a tutor to women students at King's, insisted portentously that \"displays of boisterousness were really exclusively men's affairs\". However, women clearly played a central role in 1920s rags, including the raid on University College in 1927.\n\nWithin the University of London student rivalry was not confined to King's and UCL, but spilled over into contests with Imperial, Queen Mary colleges and the London School of Economics.\n\nOne well-planned and successful rag against the LSE during the 1920s involved the King's Liberal Party Society organising an impostor to play the part of David Lloyd George, complete with morning coat and limousine, who proceeded to address the LSE Students' Union in an appropriately overdramatic performance. A riot ensued when the angry audience realised they had been duped and the actor sent flying before rescue by a strategically placed King's rowing heavy.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, King's was involved in numerous kidnapping and ransoming of rival mascots, including Queen Mary's leopard and the LSE Penguin.\n\nIn 1935 a failed attempt was made by student of Queen Mary to capture Reggie the Lion – \"A further attempt to obtain a mascot [by QMUL] was made in 1935 and deserved a better result. One Wednesday afternoon, a well organized party assembled by devious routes in King's College and at zero hour took up their appointed posts. The porters were confined to their lodge and all entrances and exits were guarded. But Reggie the lion was chained in steel to the wall, and the porters had telephoned the police for aid! A hasty retreat was made with no casualties.\"\n\nA triumph for Queen Mary students came in 1923 during a football cup final between Queen Mary and University College. \"The match was to be played on the Arsenal Football Club ground at Highbury, and the rag-committee had obtained an option on a fleet of Donkeys and carts on which it was proposed to drive down to the ground. Unknown to this committee a few research chemists thought of something better. They prepared a special paint, that would not easily wash off, and in the early hours of the morning, dodging the police on their beats they set to work on the imposing frontage of University College. Next morning, London was startled to find the place resplendent in the college colours, light blue and gold! An irate telephone call from Sir Gregory Foster to the Principal exposed the infamous deed. The cup-final match was promptly placed \"out of bounds\", but after many violent student demonstrations this ban was lifted just before lunch and the College supporters flocked down to Highbury under promise to abstain from ragging. University College won the match 5–4, and at the end called for three cheers for the \"College of Decorators\". The Union Society had to pay the bill of £50 for the removal of the paint. But we think it well worth it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1936714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936714", "title": "List of musical works in unusual time signatures", "text": "List of musical works in unusual time signatures\n\nThis is a list of musical compositions or pieces of music that have unusual time signatures. \"Unusual\" is here defined to be any time signature other than simple time signatures with top numerals of 2, 3, or 4 and bottom numerals of 2, 4, or 8, and compound time signatures with top numerals of 6, 9, or 12 and bottom numerals 4, 8, or 16.\n\nThe conventions of musical notation typically allow for more than one written representation of a particular piece. The chosen time signature largely depends upon musical context, personal taste of the composer or transcriber, and the graphic layout on the written page. Frequently, published editions were written in a specific time signature to visually signify the tempo for slow movements in symphonies, sonatas, and concerti.\n\nA perfectly consistent unusual metrical pattern may be notated in a more familiar time signature that does not correspond to it. For example, the Passacaglia from Britten's opera \"Peter Grimes\" consists of variations over a recurring bass line eleven beats in length but is notated in ordinary time, with each variation lasting bars, and therefore commencing each time one crotchet earlier in the bar than the preceding one had done.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTime signatures that group nine beats into are very common in music. This section only lists other groupings, such as .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also: Quintuple meter\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21335862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21335862", "title": "Lolo-Burmese languages", "text": "Lolo-Burmese languages\n\nThe Lolo-Burmese languages (also Burmic languages) of Burma and Southern China form a coherent branch of the Sino-Tibetan family.\n\nUntil ca. 1950, the endonym \"Lolo\" was written with derogatory characters in Chinese, and for this reason has sometimes been avoided. Shafer (1966–1974) used the term \"Burmic\" for the Lolo-Burmese languages. The Chinese term is \"Mian–Yi\", after the Chinese name for Burmese and one of several words for Tai, reassigned to replace \"Lolo\" by the Chinese government after 1950.\n\nThe position of Naxi (Moso) within the family is unclear, and it is often left as a third branch besides Loloish and Burmish. Lama (2012) considers it to be a branch of Loloish, while Guillaume Jacques has suggested that it is a Qiangic language.\n\nThe Pyu language that preceded Burmese in Burma is sometimes linked to the Lolo-Burmese family, but there is no good evidence for any particular classification, and it is best left unclassified within Sino-Tibetan.\n\nLöffler (1966) and Bradley (1997) consider the Mru language to be closely related to or part of Lolo-Burmese, while Matisoff includes Mruic in the Northeast Indian areal group.\n\nPai-lang, attested from the 3rd century, is Lolo-Burmese, perhaps Loloish.\n\nGuillaume Jacques & Alexis Michaud (2011) argue for a Burmo-Qiangic branch with two primary subbranches, Na-Qiangic (i.e. Naxi-Qiangic) and Lolo-Burmese. Similarly, David Bradley (2008) also proposes an Eastern Tibeto-Burman branch that includes the two subbranches of Burmic ( Lolo-Burmese) and Qiangic.\n\nBradley (1997, quoted in Peiros 1997) gives the following classification for the Lolo-Burmese languages. In later publications, in place of \"Loloish\", David Bradley instead uses the term \"Ngwi\" based on a conservative autonym in the Sanie language.\n\n\nLama (2012), in a study of 36 languages, finds the Mondzish cluster (Mondzi–Maang, Mantsi–Mo'ang) to be divergent. He did not include Mru or Ugong.\n\n\nLama (2012) recognizes 9 unambiguous coherent groups of Lolo-Burmese languages, whereas Bradley considers there to be 5 groups (Burmish, Southern Ngwi, Northern Ngwi, Southeastern Ngwi, and Central Ngwi).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53852960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53852960", "title": "March for Science Portland", "text": "March for Science Portland\n\nThe March for Science Portland (also known as the March for Science PDX and Portland March for Science) was a protest held in Portland, Oregon. This local protest was part of the March for Science, a series of rallies and marches in Washington, D.C. and over 600 cities across the world on April 22, 2017 (Earth Day). Portland Science Advocates organized the march in support of science and to protest President Donald Trump's plan to cut funding for the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institutes of Health. Funding for the event, which cost approximately $30,000, was crowdsourced.\n\nAmid rainy weather, thousands of people attended the demonstration, gathering at a rally at Tom McCall Waterfront Park before marching 44 blocks of downtown Portland. Speakers included Earl Blumenauer, Suzanne Bonamici, and Elizabeth Steiner Hayward. Organizations that promoted the protest included the Audubon Society of Portland, Oregon Environmental Council, Oregon Health & Science University, and Xerces Society. Reporters noted organizers' attempts to create a political yet nonpartisan atmosphere, and participants' public criticism of Trump. The event featured activities for children and was described as having a family-friendly atmosphere.\n\nPortland's March for Science was organized by Portland Science Advocates. The group was composed of people with backgrounds in various disciplines, including Jackie Wirz, an assistant dean at Oregon Health & Science University, and a store clerk with a passion for science and writing. The event's steering committee included co-chairs Curt Waltman and Wirz; additionally, Rich Hatfield served as communications committee co-chair and Sumi Malik, a transportation planner for CH2M Hill, served as community outreach co-chair. Alex Conley was also an organizer. The organizers met through the event's Facebook page, which was launched in February 2017, and sought advice from the organizers of the Women's March on Portland, which was held in January 2017.\n\nOrganizers wanted to support science and protest Donald Trump's plan to cut funding for the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institutes of Health. The event was also to protest Trump's threat to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and decrease funding for scientific research and K–12 science programs, among other policies. Prior to the march, Waltman and Wirz wrote a guest column in \"The Oregonian\", where they noted Oregon's achievements in science, and encouraged people to \"stand up for science\". They said, \"We stand in support of scientific inquiry, researchers, availability of data and evidence-based policy\", and invited people who \"love\" science to participate.\n\nFunding for the event, which cost approximately $30,000, was crowdsourced. Obtaining a permit to host the event at the park cost $3,000. Monetary donations were accepted, and merchandise sales also funded the demonstrations. Funds were transferred through the Xerces Society. Portland Science Advocates was established as a nonprofit organization for members to continue the demonstration's mission after the march.\n\nPrior to the march, organizers surveyed Tom McCall Waterfront Park and posted flyers about the event in the surrounding area. They emphasized that all people were invited to participate, not just scientists, and anticipated participation by approximately 10,000 demonstrators. Nearly 7,000 had committed to attending the event on its Facebook page. Organizers planned to use drones to help estimate the crowd size.\n\nMore than a thousand people had gathered by the time the rally began at 10:00am at Tom McCall Waterfront Park, near the Morrison Bridge. Six business leaders, innovators, politicians, and scientists spoke at the event. Politicians included U.S. Representative for , Earl Blumenauer, U.S. Representative for the state's 1st congressional district, Suzanne Bonamici, and Elizabeth Steiner Hayward, who serves as a Democratic member of the Oregon State Senate for the 17th District.\n\nBlumenauer referred to the Trump administration in his speech, saying, \"We have failed in the political process because they've made science partisan. They've undermined the credibility and confidence that people have, for example in science, dealing with climate.\" He also spoke about the importance of evidence-based decision making. In her speech, Bonamici said science should not be a partisan issue, and told the crowd: \"We are going to go back to Washington, D.C., with all of you in our mind — this beautiful sea of science supporters, and fight for research, fight for science, fight for clean air, fight for clean water, and fight for our planet. So stay engaged, please. This is just the beginning.\"\n\nThe other speakers included Xerces Society senior conservation biologist Rich Hatfield, Intel educator and innovation manager Shashi Jain, and Gabe Sheoships, a citizen of the Cayuse and Walla Walla tribes of the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, who serves as education director for Friends of Tryon Creek, and is an adjunct faculty member at Portland State University.\n\nAt about 11:00am, protesters began marching south along Naito Parkway. They navigated a 44-block portion of downtown, before returning to the park around noon for a \"Science Expo\" and \"Kid Zone\", as well as live music. The route was identical to the one used during the Women's March on Portland; participants followed Naito to Jefferson Street, to Fourth Avenue, to Pine Street, then revisited Tom McCall Waterfront Park. Family-friendly educational booths and vendors were stationed near the park's Battleship Oregon Memorial. The demonstration ended at about 4:00pm.\n\nAmid rainy weather, thousands of people attended the demonstration. Some crowd estimates \"far exceeded\" the anticipated 10,000 participants. Many protesters wore science-themed costumes, such as bio suits, space suits, and white lab coats. The city experienced increased traffic because of street and bridge closures for the march, and other events.\n\nThe march was endorsed by the Audubon Society of Portland, Oregon Health & Science University, and Xerces Society, and promoted by the Democratic Party of Washington County, Oregon Environmental Council, Portland State University's biology department, and Rose City Astronomers.\n\nThe Center for Biological Diversity also issued a press release confirming some of its scientists planned to march in Portland and other cities throughout the United States. The educational nonprofit organization Science Project had a booth at the park. The American Chemical Society, which publishes \"Chemical & Engineering News\", supported the parent March for Science demonstration as long as organizers remained nonpartisan; the trade magazine's former editor-in-chief, Rudy Baum, covered the Portland march. Portland's Badass Women's Protest Choir, which formed after the 2016 presidential election, also planned to attend.\n\nThe Audubon Society of Portland organized a sign making party on April 20.\n\nLeading up to the event, \"The Portland Mercury\" Erik Henriksen encouraged readers to join the march, writing: \"Trump's hostility to science isn't just an attack on humankind's accumulated knowledge—it's an attack on all of us, and its repercussions will affect everyone on Earth, every day, for the rest of our lives. Time to fight back.\" KOIN said organizers portrayed the demonstration as \"political but not partisan, promoting the understanding of science as well as defending it from various attacks, including proposed U.S. government budget cuts under President Donald Trump\". Similarly, Maggie Vespa of KGW said, \"Although organizers trumpeted the event's 'nonpartisan' platform, participants in Portland were quick to take aim at President Trump's proposed funding cuts to scientific research agencies.\"\n\nFollowing the event, \"The Oregonian\" Eder Campuzano noted, \"unlike so many similar demonstrations — such as January's Women's March, the Tax Day March or several other downtown protests — this one skewed younger\". Furthermore, he said of the event's family-friendly atmosphere: \"Demonstrators turned out in droves with their children in tow, a fact many parents attributed to the fact that event organizers had provided a kids' zone near the Battleship Oregon Memorial with educational booths and live music nearby.\" Lyndsey Hewitt of the \"Portland Tribune\" noted, \"The March for Science's crowd was somewhat calmer than the Women's March, which was an audience electrified, fresh off the heels of President Donald Trump's inauguration... The March for Science, however — announced not long after the Women's March — had a much more focused group of protestors.\"\n\nOne demonstrator, immuno-oncologist and filmmaker Tyler Hulett, documented the march and created the 8-mintute film, \"A Scientist Documents the March for Science\". The film features people \"whose lives and careers intersect with science and research\", including a woman who believes funding for her cancer research work is being threatened, a couple who is worried about reduced Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funding, and a woman concerned about Portland's unfluoridated water. Hulett wanted to raise awareness about the people involved in scientific research, and said his goal was to \"show that many of Portland's doctors and scientists are concerned about the lack of critical thinking coming from both sides of the political aisle\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55562492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55562492", "title": "Margo J. Anderson", "text": "Margo J. Anderson\n\nMargo J. Anderson (also published as Margo Anderson Conk) is an American social historian and historian of statistics known for her studies of the United States Census and on the history of Pittsburgh and Milwaukee. She is a distinguished professor of history at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, and a former president of the Social Science History Association.\n\nAnderson studied history as an undergraduate at Bucknell University, graduating summa cum laude in 1967. She earned a master's degree and PhD from Rutgers University in 1972 and 1978 respectively.\n\nShe taught briefly as an instructor at Vassar College before joining the Wisconsin–Milwaukee faculty in 1977. At Milwaukee, she chaired the history department from 1992 to 1995, directed the Urban Studies Program from 2001 to 2005, and became a distinguished professor in 2013.\n\nShe was president of the Social Science History Association in 2006.\n\nAnderson is the author or editor of:\n\nAnderson became a fellow of the American Statistical Association in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "149135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149135", "title": "Mayaguez incident", "text": "Mayaguez incident\n\nThe \"Mayaguez\" incident took place between Kampuchea and the United States from May 12–15, 1975, less than a month after the Khmer Rouge took control of the capital Phnom Penh ousting the U.S. backed Khmer Republic. It was the last official battle of the Vietnam War. The names of the Americans killed, as well as those of three U.S. Marines who were left behind on the island of Koh Tang after the battle and were subsequently executed by the Khmer Rouge, are the last names on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. The merchant ship's crew, whose seizure at sea had prompted the U.S. attack, had been released in good health, unknown to the U.S. Marines or the U.S. command of the operation before they attacked. Nevertheless, the Marines boarded and recaptured the ship anchored offshore a Cambodian island, finding it empty.\n\nThe crisis began on the afternoon of May 12, 1975, as the U.S. container ship , owned by Sea-Land Service Inc., passed nearby Poulo Wai island en route to Sattahip, Thailand, in waters claimed as 12 nautical miles of territorial waters by Cambodia. The U.S. did not recognize 12 nautical miles territorial waters claims at that time, recognizing only 3 nautical miles, and characterised the location as international sea lanes on the high seas. U.S. military reports state that the seizure took place 6 nautical miles off the island, but crew members brought evidence in a later legal action that \"Mayaguez\" had sailed about two nautical miles off Poulo Wai and was not flying a flag.\n\nAt 14:18, a Khmer Rouge naval forces \"Swift Boat\" was sighted approaching the \"Mayaguez\". The Khmer Rouge fired across the bow of \"Mayaguez\" and when Captain Charles T. Miller ordered the engine room to slow down to maneuvering speed to avoid the machine-gun fire, the Khmer Rouge then fired a rocket-propelled grenade across the bow of the ship. Captain Miller ordered the transmission of an SOS and then stopped the ship. Seven Khmer Rouge soldiers boarded \"Mayaguez\" and their leader, Battalion Commander Sa Mean, pointed at a map indicating that the ship should proceed to the east of Poulo Wai. One of the crew members broadcast a Mayday which was picked up by an Australian vessel. \"Mayaguez\" arrived off Poulo Wai at approximately 16:00 and a further 20 Khmer Rouge boarded the vessel. Sa Mean indicated that \"Mayaguez\" should proceed to Ream on the Cambodian mainland, but Captain Miller showed that the ship's radar was not working and mimed the ship hitting rocks and sinking. Sa Mean radioed his superiors and was apparently instructed to stay at Poulo Wai, dropping anchor at 16:55.\n\n\"Mayaguez\" was carrying 107 containers of routine cargo, 77 containers of government and military cargo, and 90 empty containers, all insured for $5 million. The Khmer Rouge never inspected the containers, and exact contents have not been disclosed, but \"Mayaguez\" had loaded containers from the U.S. Embassy in Saigon nine days before the fall of Saigon. The captain had a U.S. government envelope only to be opened in special circumstances, which he destroyed.\n\n\"Mayaguez\"s SOS and Mayday signals were picked up by a number of listeners including an employee of Delta Exploration Company in Jakarta, Indonesia, who notified the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta. By 05:12 Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) the first news of the incident reached the National Military Command Center (NMCC) in Washington, D.C.\n\nPresident Gerald Ford was informed of the seizure of \"Mayaguez\" at his morning briefing with his deputy assistant for national security affairs, Brent Scowcroft. At 12:05 EDT (21:05 Cambodia), a meeting of the National Security Council (NSC) was convened to discuss the situation. Meanwhile, the NMCC ordered Admiral Noel Gayler, who was the Commander in Chief of the U.S. Pacific Command (CINCPAC) at the time, to launch reconnaissance aircraft to locate \"Mayaguez\". The members of the NSC were determined to end the crisis decisively, believing that the fall of South Vietnam less than two weeks before and the forced withdrawal of the United States from Cambodia (Operation \"Eagle Pull\") and South Vietnam (Operation \"Frequent Wind\") had severely damaged the U.S.'s reputation. They also wished to avoid comparisons to the \"Pueblo\" incident of 1968, where the failure to promptly use military force to halt the capture of a U.S. intelligence ship by North Korea led to an eleven-month hostage situation. It was determined that keeping \"Mayaguez\" and her crew away from the Cambodian mainland was essential. As the United States had no diplomatic contact with the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia, President Ford instructed Secretary of State Henry Kissinger to urge the People's Republic of China to persuade the Khmer Rouge to release \"Mayaguez\" and her crew.\nFollowing the NSC meeting the White House issued a press release stating that President Ford considered the seizure an act of piracy, though this claim did not have foundation in maritime law. Secretary of Defense James R. Schlesinger ordered the military to locate \"Mayaguez\" and prevent her movement to the Cambodian mainland, employing munitions (including tear gas and sea mines) if necessary.\n\nSecretary of State Kissinger sent a message to the Chinese Liaison Office in Washington demanding the immediate release of \"Mayaguez\" and her crew, but the chief of the Liaison Office refused to accept the note. Kissinger then instructed George H. W. Bush, then head of the U.S. Liaison Office in Beijing, to deliver the note to the Chinese Foreign Ministry and to pass on an oral message that \"The Government of the United States demands the immediate release of the vessel and of the full crew. If that release does not immediately take place, the authorities in Phnom Penh will be responsible for the consequences.\"\n\nFollowing Secretary Schlesinger's instructions, P-3 Orion aircraft stationed at Naval Air Station Cubi Point in the Philippines and at U-Tapao Royal Thai Navy Airfield in Thailand took off to locate \"Mayaguez\". The aircraft carrier , then en route to Australia, was ordered into the area. The destroyer escort and the guided missile destroyer were both ordered to proceed at high speed from the Philippine Sea towards \"Mayaguez\"s last known location.\n\nAn alert order was sent to 1st Battalion 4th Marines (1/4 Marines) at Subic Bay and to the 9th Marine Regiment on Okinawa. A reinforced company from 1/4 Marines was ordered to assemble at Naval Air Station Cubi Point for airlift to Thailand, while an 1100-man Battalion Landing Team (BLT) assembled in Okinawa.\n\nOn the early morning of May 13, the P-3 Orions identified large radar returns near Poulo Wai and dropped flares on the suspected location of \"Mayaguez\" provoking Khmer Rouge gunfire. Low on fuel, the two Orions returned to base and were replaced with another Orion from Patrol Squadron 17. At 08:16 local time the Orion made a low pass over Poulo Wai positively identifying \"Mayaguez\" and again drawing Khmer Rouge gunfire.\n\nShortly after the Orion made its low pass, the Khmer Rouge leader, Sa Mean, ordered Captain Miller to get \"Mayaguez\" under way. At 08:45 \"Mayaguez\" set off towards the northeast following one of the Swift Boats. The Orion continued to track \"Mayaguez\" as she left Poulo Wai. Once the location of \"Mayaguez\" was identified, Admiral Gayler ordered the commander of the Seventh Air Force, Lieutenant General John J. Burns, at Korat Royal Thai Air Force Base, to move combat aircraft to the area. At 13:00 two unarmed F-111 fighter-bombers diverted from a training mission began making low-level high-speed passes by \"Mayaguez\". Once the F-111s had left, Sa Mean ordered Captain Miller to follow the swift boats around Koh Tang and drop anchor approximately 1.5 km north of the island. Two F-4 Phantoms soon arrived over \"Mayaguez\" and began firing their 20 mm cannon into the water in front of the ship. The F-4s were followed by A-7Ds and more F-111s which continued to fire into the sea in front of and behind the ship indicating that no further movement should be attempted.\n\nAt 16:15, the Khmer Rouge ordered \"Mayaguez\"s crew onto two fishing boats which then took them closer to the shore of Koh Tang.\n\nU.S. Navy ships \"Coral Sea\", \"Holt\" and \"Wilson\" were all scheduled to arrive on station by 15 May, but none of these ships carried any troops. carried a Marine contingent but could not arrive on station until 16 May, while also carried Marines but could not arrive until 18 May.\n\nIII Marine Amphibious Force (III MAF) assigned Task Force 79.9 with recovering \"Mayaguez\" and designated D Company 1/4 Marines in the Philippines as the unit that would actually retake \"Mayaguez\", but General Burns wanted additional force and orders were sent to the 3d Marine Division on Okinawa. 1st Battalion, 9th Marines (BLT 1/9) was then on alert as the primary \"air contingency\" reaction force, but most of BLT 1/9 were ending their tours of duty and were not subject to further extension of their tours except in the case of emergency. III MAF requested the extension of BLT 1/9's tour but this was refused. 2nd Battalion, 9th Marines (BLT 2/9) (commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Randall W. Austin) was then in a training exercise on Okinawa and it received orders on the night of 13 May to return to camp and prepare for departure by air at dawn on 14 May. On the morning of 14 May BLT 2/9 boarded Air Force C-141s at Kadena Air Base to fly to Thailand. The 9th Marine Regiment had been the first U.S. ground combat force committed to the Vietnam War in 1965, but in May 1975 only a few of the officers and NCOs from BLT 2/9 had seen combat in Vietnam.\n\nNine U.S. Air Force HH-53 \"Jolly Green\" helicopters of the 40th Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Squadron and 10 CH-53 \"Knives\" of the 21st Special Operations Squadron were stationed at Nakhon Phanom in Thailand for the rescue operation. There were differences between the two types which would become relevant during the battle: the HH-53 was air-refuelable, had 450-gallon foam-filled (i.e., self-sealing) tip tanks, a tail minigun with armor plating, and two waist miniguns. The CH-53 was not air-refuelable, but had 650-gallon foamless tip tanks and two miniguns, although no tail gun. Thus, the HH-53's fuel tanks were less vulnerable to ground fire and with its refueling capability, could remain in the battle area indefinitely as long as it had access to an aerial tanker.\n\nOn May 13, General Burns and his Seventh Air Force staff developed a contingency plan to retake \"Mayaguez\" using an assault force composed of men of the Air Force 56th Security Police Squadron. 75 volunteers from the 56th would be dropped onto the containers on the decks of \"Mayaguez\" on the morning of 14 May. In preparation for this assault five HH-53s and seven CH-53s were ordered to proceed to U-Tapao Royal Thai Navy Airfield for staging. At approximately 21:30, one of the 21st SOS CH-53s (68-10933, call sign \"Knife 13\") crashed en route to U Tapao, killing 18 security police and its five-man crew.\nPresident Ford chaired an NSC meeting at 10:22 EDT (21:22 Cambodia), where the Air Force rescue plan was cancelled due to the loss of \"Knife 13\" and the fact that the containers on \"Mayaguez\" could not bear the weight of the helicopters while rappelling men down would expose them to gunfire. It was decided that it was necessary to wait for the Navy ships to arrive off Koh Tang and for the Marines to assemble in Thailand before a rescue attempt would be mounted. President Ford ordered the Air Force to stop any Cambodian boats moving between Koh Tang and the mainland.\n\nEarly on the morning of May 14, the Khmer Rouge loaded \"Mayaguez\"s crew onto one of the fishing boats and they left Koh Tang following two of the swift boats on a heading for Kampong Som. Two F-111s swept past the fishing boat, followed by a pair of F-4s and a pair of A-7s, which began firing in front of the swift boats and then directly at the swift boats, causing one of them to turn back to Koh Tang. The jets were then joined by an AC-130H Spectre gunship from the 388th Tactical Fighter Wing which proceeded to engage the second swift boat with its cannons. An A-7D then sprayed the Swift boat with its 20 mm cannon, sinking it. The fighters then came at the fishing boat dropping bombs and firing their cannon into the water in front of it, spraying the boat with shrapnel. The fighter crews reported back that 30 to 40 Caucasians had been seen on board the fishing boat.\n\nIn Washington, President Ford convened another NSC meeting at 22:30 EDT (09:30 14 May Cambodia). A communication link had been established between the White House, Seventh Air Force at Nakhon Phanom, CINCPAC in Hawaii, and the aircraft orbiting above Koh Tang allowing for near real-time communications. The orbiting fighters reported that they could try to shoot the rudder off the fishing boat to stop its progress to Kampong Som, but the NSC decided that the risk of killing \"Mayaguez\" crew was too great. At 23:00 EDT (10:00 Cambodia) President Ford ordered that only riot-control agents should be dropped on or near the fishing boat, while all patrol boats should be sunk.\n\nThe NSC meeting continued to consider the appropriate course to resolve the crisis. It was informed that the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing had refused to pass on the American note intended for the Khmer Rouge, but George Bush reported that they had read the note and that it might have been relayed to the Khmer Rouge. With a diplomatic solution appearing unlikely, General David Jones, acting Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, presented the NSC with a range of military options. Rescue planning was complicated by the uncertainty surrounding the location of \"Mayaguez\"s crew. It was believed that some were still on the ship, some on Koh Tang and others were on the fishing boat bound for Kampong Som. The NSC decided to proceed with a simultaneous attack by Marines to retake \"Mayaguez\" and attack Koh Tang, together with attacking Cambodian shipping and bombing mainland targets.\n\nAt 10:10, despite having been hit by tear gas, the fishing boat arrived at Kampong Som. The Khmer Rouge commander at Kampong Som, apparently fearing attack by the Americans, refused to accept responsibility for \"Mayaguez\"s crew and so the fishing boat moved further down the coast, dropping anchor off the island of Koh Rong Sanloem. The orbiting fighters lost track of the fishing boat once it entered the port at Kampong Som, and so this was the location transmitted up the chain of command. At 11:29, U.S. aircraft sank another patrol boat and damaged another four.\n\n1/4 Marines had arrived at U-Tapao from the Philippines at 05:45 on May 14 and had been waiting on standby for a helicopter assault on \"Mayaguez\", but as the news of the arrival of the fishing boat at Kampong Som came in the helicopter assault was cancelled. At 14:00, BLT 2/9 began arriving at U-Tapao.\n\nOn the afternoon of 14 May, General Burns received the order to proceed with a simultaneous assault on Koh Tang and \"Mayaguez\" timed to begin just before sunrise (05:42) on 15 May. D Company 1/4 Marines would retake \"Mayaguez\" while BLT 2/9 Marines would rescue the crew on Koh Tang. With minimal intelligence available regarding the geography of Koh Tang, the commander of BLT 2/9 and his staff took off in a U-21 to make an aerial reconnaissance of the island. Arriving over Koh Tang at 16:00, they were prevented from closely approaching the island in order not to compromise the secrecy of the mission or draw ground fire, but they determined that the island was so covered in jungle that the only two viable landing zones available were beaches on the west and east shores of the northern portion of Koh Tang. The Defense Intelligence Agency had made an assessment, in part from RF-4C and U-2 reconnaissance flights, that between 150 and 200 Khmer Rouge backed by heavy weapons occupied Koh Tang. This report was conveyed to U-Tapao air base, but was never briefed to the planners, who believed about 20 Cambodian irregulars armed with small-arms were on the island, probably due to security classification issues.\n\nAt 21:00, the rescue plan was finalized. Six hundred Marines from BLT 2/9 — composed of Golf and Echo Companies — were assigned to conduct a combat assault in five CH-53 \"Knives\" and three HH-53 \"Jolly Greens\" to seize and hold Koh Tang. Two helicopters would make a diversionary assault on the West Beach, while six helicopters would make the main assault on the wider East Beach. The East Beach force would move to the nearby compound where \"Mayaguez\"s crew was believed to be held and then move across and link up with the West Beach force. Two more waves of helicopters would be required to deploy all of BLT 2/9 to Koh Tang. The flight from U-Tapao to Koh Tang was a four-hour round trip. It was estimated that only 20-30 Khmer Rouge were on Koh Tang; the information regarding the heavy anti-aircraft fire coming from Koh Tang and the number of gunboats present was not passed on to the Marines. A unit of 57 Marines from Delta Company, 1/4 Marines together with volunteers from Military Sealift Command to get \"Mayaguez\" under way, an explosive ordnance disposal team and a Cambodian linguist would be transferred by three HH-53 \"Jolly Greens\" to the \"Holt\" which was scheduled to arrive on station at dawn for a ship-to-ship boarding of \"Mayaguez\" one hour after the assault on Koh Tang began. Two additional CH-53s (because of their superior firepower, all the HH-53s were used for troop lift) were tasked as Combat Search and Rescue helicopters, supported by an HC-130P \"King\" command-and-control aircraft of the 56th Rescue Squadron.\n\nUSS \"Wilson\" was assigned to support the Koh Tang operation, and, after retaking \"Mayaguez\", USS \"Holt\" would be deployed in a blocking position between Koh Tang and the Cambodian mainland with the mission of intercepting and engaging any Khmer reaction forces. U.S. Navy aircraft from \"Coral Sea\" were given the mission of striking targets on the Cambodian mainland to prevent interference with the rescue.\n\nAt 15:52 EDT (02:52 15 May Cambodia), President Ford convened the fourth and final NSC meeting regarding \"Mayaguez\". General Jones briefed the NSC on the assault plan and plans for strikes by Guam-based B-52s on the port facilities at Kampong Som and the naval base at Ream. Concerned that the use of B-52s might be excessive, President Ford limited the bombing to attacks by carrier-based aircraft commencing at 07:45 (Cambodia) and gave the go-ahead to the rescue plan.\n\nUnknown to the Americans then converging on Koh Tang, none of \"Mayaguez\"s crew were on the island, which was defended by over 100 Khmer Rouge. These defenses were intended to counter the Vietnamese, not the Americans. Following the Fall of Saigon, the Vietnam People's Army moved quickly to take control of a number of islands formerly controlled by South Vietnam and other islands contested between Vietnam and Cambodia. The Khmer Rouge commander of Kampong Som District, Em Son, was also given responsibility for securing Koh Tang and on 1 May he took a force of 100 men to Koh Tang to defend the island against attack by the Vietnamese. Sa Mean was given responsibility for the defense of Poulo Wai.\n\nOn the East Beach two heavy machine guns had been dug in at each end of the beach and fortified firing positions had been built every 20 metres behind a sand berm connected by a shallow zig-zag trench. Two M60 machine guns, B-40 rocket-propelled grenades and two DK-82 mortar/grenade launchers were in the firing positions. On the West Beach a heavy machine gun, an M60, B-40 rocket-propelled grenades and a 75 mm recoilless rifle were dug into connected firing positions. North of each beach was a 60 mm mortar and south of the beaches was an 81 mm mortar that could fire on either beach. Ammunition was stored in dug-in bunkers, one behind each beach, with a third ammunition dump located near Em Son's command post in the jungle south of the beaches.\n\nOn their arrival at Rong Sang Lem Captain Miller was taken to the senior Khmer Rouge commander where he was subject to a cursory interrogation before being asked if he could talk to the American planes from \"Mayaguez\". The Khmer Rouge explained that they had already lost three boats and numerous men and were anxious to call off the American bombers. Captain Miller explained that if they returned to the ship and restarted her engines they could then generate electricity to call their office in Bangkok which could then contact the U.S. military. The Khmer Rouge radioed instructions to their higher command and then gave approval for Captain Miller and nine men to return to \"Mayaguez\". As darkness was falling it was decided that they would return to \"Mayaguez\" the following morning, 15 May.\n\nAt 06:13 on May 15, the first phase of the operation began with the transfer by three HH-53s of D/1/4 Marines to the \"Holt\". As the \"Holt\" slowly came alongside, USAF A-7D aircraft saturated \"Mayaguez\" with tear gas munitions. Equipped with gas masks, the Marines at 07:25 hours then conducted one of the few hostile ship-to-ship boardings by the U.S. Navy since the American Civil War, securing the vessel after an hour-long search, finding her empty.\n\nAt 06:12, the eight helicopters (five CH-53 \"Knives\" and three HH-53 \"Jolly Greens\") of the Koh Tang assault force approached the two Landing zones (LZs) on Koh Tang. At the West Beach, the first section of two CH-53 helicopters came in at 06:20 hours. The first helicopter; \"Knife 21\", landed safely, but while offloading its Marines came under heavy automatic weapons fire, destroying an engine. It managed to take off, protected by suppressive fire from the second CH-53, \"Knife 22\", and ditched 1.6 km offshore. \"Knife 22\" was damaged so severely that it turned back with its Marines (including the Golf Company commander) still aboard escorted by \"Jolly Green 11\" and \"Jolly Green 12\", and crash-landed in Trat Province on the Thai coast, where its passengers were picked up by \"Jolly Green 12\" and returned to U-Tapao.\n\nAt 06:30, the CH-53s approaching the East Beach encountered intense automatic weapons and RPG fire from entrenched Khmer Rouge. \"Knife 31\" was hit by two RPGs, which ignited its left fuel tank and ripped away the nose of the helicopter. It crashed in a fireball fifty meters offshore. A pilot, five Marines, and two Navy corpsmen were killed in the crash, another Marine drowned swimming from the wreck, and three Marines were killed by gunfire trying to reach the beach. A tenth Marine died of his wounds while clinging to the burning wreckage. The surviving ten Marines and three Air Force crewmen were forced to swim for two hours before being picked up by the gig of the arriving \"Henry B. Wilson\". Among the Marine survivors was the battalion's Forward Air Controller, who used an Air Force survival radio while swimming to direct A-7 air strikes against the island until the battery failed. The second CH-53, \"Knife 23\" was hit by an RPG which blew off the tail section and crash-landed on the East Beach, but it successfully offloaded its 20 Marines and crew of five. They set up a defensive perimeter and the \"Knife 23\" copilot used his survival radio to call in airstrikes, but they would remain cut off from both reinforcements and rescue for twelve hours.\n\n\"Knife 32\" was inbound to the East Beach when it was hit by an RPG and aborted its landing, instead heading out over the West Beach to the \"Knife 21\" crash site where it dumped fuel and proceeded to rescue the three \"Knife 21\" crewmen. Two other sections of the first wave, consisting of the remaining four helicopters, were diverted from the East Beach to the West Beach and eventually landed all of their Marines between 06:30 and 07:00 hours, although the final insertion by \"Jolly Green 41\" required support from an AC-130 Spectre gunship in order to penetrate the Khmer Rouge fire on its fifth attempt. \"Knife 32\", \"Jolly Green 41\" and \"Jolly Green 42\" eventually landed 81 Marines on the West Beach under the command of the company Executive Officer, and \"Jolly Green 43\" landed 29 Marines of the battalion command post and mortar platoon a kilometer to the southwest. By 07:00 109 Marines and five Air Force crewmen were on Koh Tang, but in three isolated beach areas and in close contact with Khmer Rouge troops. The Marines at the northern end of West Beach attempted to move down the beach to link up with Col Austin's command element to the south, but were beaten back by heavy Khmer Rouge fire which killed LCpl Ashton Loney. While isolated, the Marines were able to use their 81 mm mortars for fire support and devised a makeshift communications network for controlling supporting air strikes by USAF A-7 and F-4 aircraft. It was decided that the platoon isolated on the East Beach should be extracted; following suppressive fire from an AC-130, \"Jolly Green 13\" landed there at 08:15 amid a hail of machine gun fire. It had landed some 100 m away from the Marines who were reluctant to risk running to the helicopter, the helicopter took off again with its fuel lines ruptured and made an emergency landing in Rayong, Thailand.\n\nOf the eight helicopters assaulting Koh Tang, three had been destroyed (\"Knife 21\", \"Knife 23\" and \"Knife 31\") and four others damaged too severely to continue operations (\"Knife 22\", \"Knife 32\", \"Jolly Green 41\" and \"Jolly Green 42\"). Of the helicopters used in the recapture of \"Mayaguez\", \"Jolly Green 13\" had been severely damaged in the East Beach rescue attempt. This left only three helicopters (all HH-53s - \"Jolly Greens 11, 12 and 43\") of the original eleven available to bring in the follow-up forces of BLT 2/9, so the 2 CH-53s (\"Knife 51 and 52\") whose mission had been search and rescue — the last available helicopters — were reassigned to carry troops. The five helicopters picked up 127 Marines of the second wave at U-Tapao between 09:00 and 10:00 hours. At 11:50 \"Knife 52\", \"Knife 51\" and \"Jolly Green 43\" arrived over Koh Tang and prepared to land on the East Beach, as \"Knife 52\" approached fire punctured its fuel tanks and the pilot aborted the landing and headed back to U-Tapao leaking fuel. \"Knife 51\" and \"Jolly Green 43\" also abandoned their landings and assumed a holding pattern.\n\nAt 06:07 the Khmer Rouge information and propaganda minister, Hu Nim, made a radio broadcast announcing that \"Mayaguez\" and her crew would be released. The section of his communique on the release was:\n\nThe transmission was intercepted by the CIA station in Bangkok, translated and delivered to the White House by 07:15 (20:15 EDT). The White House was skeptical of the Khmer Rouge message and released a press statement at 08:15 (21:15 EDT) saying that U.S. military operations would continue until the crew of \"Mayaguez\" was released. Secretary Kissinger had ordered a delay to an airstrike by planes from \"Coral Sea\" on the Kompong Som oil storage complex and Ream airfield. At 06:30 on Koh Rong Sanloem the crew of \"Mayaguez\" were informed that they would be allowed to return to their ship, after having first agreed to a statement that they had not been mistreated. At 07:15 \"Mayaguez\"s crew was loaded aboard the Thai fishing boat, \"Sinvari\" (which had herself been captured by the Khmer Rouge five months earlier) escorted by a second boat with Sa Mean and other Khmer Rouge. Once away from Koh Rong Sanloem the second boat picked up the Khmer Rouge guards from \"Sinvari\" and instructed the crew to return to \"Mayaguez\" and call off the American planes. At 09:35 an orbiting P-3 Orion spotted \"Sinvari\" and \"Wilson\" was ordered to intercept her, originally thinking she was a Khmer Rouge gunboat. The P-3 then identified that Caucasians were aboard and at 09:49 \"Mayaguez\"s crew was brought aboard \"Wilson\". Confirmation of the release of the crew was sent to the White House and at 11:27 (00:27 EDT) President Ford went on U.S. national television announcing the recovery of \"Mayaguez\" and the rescue of her crew, but obscuring the fact that the crew had in fact been released by the Khmer Rouge.\n\nPresident Ford, at Secretary Kissinger's urging, declined to cancel the scheduled airstrikes on the Cambodian mainland until the Marines on Koh Tang had been withdrawn. At 09:05 A-6A and A-7E aircraft from VA-22, VA-94 and VA-95 escorted by F-4N fighters of VF-51 and VF-111 aboard \"Coral Sea\" began the airstrikes, bombing landing barges and oil storage facilities at Kompong Som and cargo planes and T-28 Trojan aircraft at Ream airfield and boats at Ream naval base.\n\nThe U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff decided that, with the ship recaptured and the crew released, further reinforcement of Koh Tang was unnecessary and at 11:55 they ordered the U.S. forces to \"immediately cease all offensive operations against the Khmer Republic [and to] disengage and withdraw all forces from operating areas as soon as possible\". Hearing this order, the orbiting EC-130 \"Cricket\" recalled the second assault wave. The helicopters with the second wave reversed course until Lt. Col. Austin, on the ground on Koh Tang, convinced the commander of the Seventh Air Force that the reinforcements were necessary to prevent his units from being overrun; the order was rescinded at 12:10.\n\nThe second wave carrying the Marines from \"Knife 22\" and a platoon from Company E had originally taken off at staggered times between 09:00 and 10:00, but with the reversal of course its arrival on Koh Tang was seriously delayed. At 12:10 \"Knife 51\", followed by \"Jolly Greens 43, 11 and 12\" successfully landed 100 additional Marines and evacuated nine wounded on the West Beach, making a total of 225 Marines - 205 on the West Beach and 20 Marines and five airmen on the East Beach. Around the same time Lt. Col Austin's isolated command unit planned a linkup of its small contingent with the bulk of Golf Company at the northern end of the West Beach. Using mortar fire and A-7 airstrikes to clear Khmer Rouge in the jungle between the two forces, it reached the Golf Company perimeter at 12:45.\n\nBy 14:00 firing on the West Beach had reduced substantially as Em Son had moved most of his men back from the beaches with only three man patrols maintaining pressure on the two Marine enclaves. Lt. Col Austin asked the \"Cricket\" if he should attempt to push across the island to link up with the isolated unit on the East Beach, but was advised that another helicopter pickup would be attempted first. At 14:15 \"Jolly Greens 11 and 43\" approached East Beach, but were repulsed by heavy fire. \"Jolly Green 43\" had a fuel line damaged, but made an emergency landing aboard \"Coral Sea\" at 14:36, where it was repaired and returned to service by 17:00 hours. During the attempted landing by \"Jolly Green 43\", fire was seen coming from a semi-submerged Swift Boat that had been shot up by an AC-130 the previous day, A-7 aircraft were called in to destroy the boat with their 20 mm cannon. At 16:20 hours, \"Nail 68\", an Air Force OV-10 Forward air control (FAC) aircraft, arrived and took over the direction of air support. At 16:23 \"Nail 68\" called on \"Wilson\" to use its 5-inch gun to destroy the semi-submerged Swift Boat. This change in controllers marked a turning point in the quality of airborne firepower available to the Marines, because for the first time that day they had an airborne observer exclusively dedicated to providing accurate and timely close air support. At 17:00 Em Son gathered his forces and moved back up the island to secure an ammunition dump that lay between the West and East Beaches. He was surprised to find the dump intact and no Marines lying in ambush. Now resupplied, his men would be able to increase the pressure on the Marines again.\n\nAt 18:00 as the sun began setting a third attempt to rescue the East Beach force was attempted, using \"Jolly Green 11\" as the rescue ship and with gunfire support from \"Jolly Green 12\", \"Knife 51\" and the gig from \"Wilson\" mounting four M60s. \"Nail 68\" first ordered gun runs by an AC-130 followed by F-4s and A-7s along the edge of the East Beach, as this was going on five C-130s arrived over Koh Tang carrying BLU-82 \"daisy cutter\" bombs — a 15,000-pound device and the largest conventional explosive weapon in the U.S. arsenal at the time. Not seeing any practical use for the BLU-82s, \"Nail 68\" ordered them dropped well south of the Marines' positions. At 18:15 \"Jolly Green 11\" approached the East Beach, but did not actually set down because the hulk of \"Knife 23\" was sitting on the beach; instead, the pilot (1LT Donald Backlund) skilfully hovered the helicopter several feet off the ground just north of the original beach LZ. The extraction was difficult because the helicopter would see-saw up and down. Only a few Marines at a time could board the helicopter's rear ramp in this fashion by timing their jumps to coincide with the downward motion of the aircraft. \"Jolly Green 11\" was hit numerous times, but managed to transport its cargo of 20 Marines and five Airmen to the \"Coral Sea\". Shortly after \"Jolly Green 11\" evacuated the East Beach, the first BLU-82 was dropped causing a huge explosion and sending a shockwave across the West Beach, Lt. Col Austin quickly called the \"Cricket\" with the instruction that no more of the bombs should be dropped. A report from \"Jolly Green 11\" indicated that a Marine might be in the wreckage of \"Knife 31\" and \"Jolly Green 12\" went in to search for any survivors, \"Jolly Green 12\" hovered above the wreck, while a crewman was lowered on a rescue hoist to survey the wreckage, no Marine was recovered and \"Jolly Green 12\" suffered extensive damage in the rescue attempt and flew to \"Coral Sea\".\n\nAs a moonless night fell over Koh Tang, the remaining two helicopters, \"Knife 51\" and the hastily repaired \"Jolly Green 43\", were joined by \"Jolly Green 44\" that had been out of service at its Nakhon Phanom base but had been repaired and flown to the area. At 18:40 this force began to withdraw the remaining 205 Marines from the West Beach, protected by AC-130 fire and naval gunfire support from \"Henry B. Wilson\" and her gig. The first load of 41 Marines was lifted out at 18:40 hours by \"Knife 51\" and flown to the \"Coral Sea\", followed by 54 taken aboard \"Jolly Green 43\". As \"Jolly Green 44\" picked up a load of 44 Marines, the remaining Marines in the shrinking West Beach perimeter came under intense attack and were in danger of being overrun. The round trip to \"Coral Sea\" took thirty minutes, so the pilot, 1LT Bob Blough, decided to deliver his Marines to \"Harold E. Holt\", the nearest ship to Koh Tang, in complete darkness while hovering the helicopter over the ship with only its front wheels touching down. Within five minutes \"Jolly Green 44\" returned and picked up 34 more Marines, leaving 32 still on the island; \"Jolly Green 44\" was suffering engine trouble and this time headed for \"Coral Sea\".\n\nFinally at 20:00 \"Knife 51\" landed and began loading in the dark and under fire. Having loaded everyone save for themselves, Captain Davis and Gunnery Sergeant McNemar combed the beach looking for stragglers. \"Knife 51\" Pararescueman TSGT Wayne Fisk was at the end of the ramp when two more Marines stumbled out of the darkness, TSGT Fisk asked Captain Davis if all his men were aboard and he confirmed they were, but TSGT Fisk combed the beach one last time for stragglers. Finding none, he leaped onto the hovering CH-53 and at 20:10 \"Knife 51\" left Koh Tang for the \"Coral Sea\".\n\nDue to the intense direct and indirect fire during the operation, the bodies of Marines and airmen who were killed in action were left where they fell including Lance Corporal Ashton Loney, whose body was left behind in the darkness during the evacuation of the West Beach.\n\nWith each withdrawal, the Marines contracted their perimeter on the West Beach. Lance Corporal John S. Standfast, squad leader, 3rd Squad, 3rd Platoon, Company E and his squad covered Company G's withdrawal during the reduction of the perimeter, and he then singlehandedly directed the pullback of his own squad. Before withdrawing to the safety of the new perimeter, Standfast and his platoon guide Sergeant Andersen would move forward to the old perimeter to ensure that no member of the company inadvertently had been left behind, each time checking every foxhole. As the Company E commander Captain Mykle E. Stahl prepared to board \"Jolly Green 44\" he informed Captain Davis that all of his men were inside the perimeter, not realising that three Marines of an M60 machine gun team had set up a firing position behind a rocky outcrop beyond the right flank of the perimeter.\n\nEven as \"Knife 51\" left the West Beach, there was confusion as to whether any Marines remained on Koh Tang. The pilot, Lieutenant Brims, radioed the FAC that some Marines aboard claimed there were still fellow Marines on the ground, but this was soon contradicted by Captain Davis who said that all Marines were off Koh Tang. Two hours after the evacuation was completed, with the Koh Tang Marines dispersed among three Navy ships, Company E commander Captain Stahl discovered that three of his Marines were missing. The Marines checked all of the Navy ships but could not locate Lance Corporal Joseph N. Hargrove, PFC Gary L. Hall, and Pvt Danny G. Marshall, members of a three-man machine gun team which had been assigned to protect the right flank of the constantly shrinking perimeter during the final evacuation. Sergeant Andersen was the last member of the Marine force to see Hall, Hargrove, and Marshall alive at about 20:00 when he ordered them to move back to a new position which was located to the left of the position occupied by Captain Davis.\n\nA rescue operation was proposed using Marine volunteers aboard the only three serviceable helicopters. On \"Coral Sea\" the Commander of Task Force 73, Rear Admiral R. T. Coogan met with Lt. Col Austin and Captain Davis, Gunnery Sergeant McNemar and Lieutenant Coulter who had just arrived from Subic Bay with a 14-man U.S. Navy SEAL team to consider possible options. Admiral Coogan asked Lt. Coulter to take \"Wilson\"s gig ashore in daylight unarmed under a white flag with leaflets dropped and \"Wilson\" broadcasting the crew's intentions to recover the American bodies and determine the status of the missing men if possible, but Lt. Coulter was skeptical and instead proposed taking his team ashore for a night reconnaissance, but this was refused by Admiral Coogan. Admiral Coogan had to weigh up the order from Seventh Fleet to cease hostile actions against the Khmer Rouge against the lack of evidence that any of the men were still alive, he decided that there would be no rescue mission unless there was some confirmation that the three Marines were still alive. The following morning \"Wilson\" cruised back and forth between the West and East Beaches for three hours broadcasting messages in English, French and Khmer saying that they had no hostile intent, but simply wished to retrieve any U.S. personnel dead or alive on the Koh Tang and would send an unarmed boat ashore if the Khmer Rouge signalled them. Half of \"Wilson\"s crew was on deck scanning the beaches and jungle for any sign of the missing Marines, but no signal was received from the Khmer Rouge or the missing Marines. With no indication that the three Marines were still alive and the certainty that more lives would be lost in any forced rescue attempt, a return to Koh Tang was ruled out and \"Wilson\" departed the area. Hargrove, Hall, and Marshall were declared Missing in Action and then on 21 July 1976 their status was changed to Killed in Action (Body Not Recovered).\n\nIn 1985, an eyewitness report indicated that a wounded American had been captured on Koh Tang after the assault and was subsequently executed. The NSA intercepted Cambodian messages which referred to 'the American that was captured' with orders not to talk about this. In 1999 Em Son approached the Joint Task Force-Full Accounting (JTF-FA) on learning that they were looking for further information regarding the events on Koh Tang. Em Son advised that on the morning on 16 May he ordered his men to search the West Beach for any remaining Americans. About 100 m from the beach one of the Khmer Rouge was hit by M16 fire. The Khmer Rouge then fired mortars and encircled the firing position, capturing one American with a leg wound. Em Son's description of the American matched that of Lance Corporal Joseph Hargrove. The Khmer Rouge continued their search and located an abandoned M60 machine gun, various equipment and the covered body of a black American soldier. Em Son ordered the dead American (presumably Lance Corporal Ashton Loney) buried and the prisoner taken to his H.Q. When Em Son was advised that the Khmer Rouge hit by M16 fire had died, he ordered the American to be shot. Approximately one week after the assault, Em Son's men noticed that their leftover food was being disturbed and on searching they found bootprints in the mud. They set up a night ambush and on the third night they captured two Americans matching the descriptions of PFC Gary Hall and Pvt Danny Marshall. Em Son radioed Kampong Som and was ordered to deliver the Americans to the mainland. The following morning the two Americans were taken by boat to the mainland and then driven to the Ti Nean Pagoda above Sihanoukville where they were stripped to their underwear and shackled. After one week, on orders from Phnom Penh, each American was beaten to death with a B-40 rocket launcher. Hall's body was buried in a shallow grave near the beach. Marshall's was dumped on the beach cove.\n\nRecovery efforts in 1999 by the JTF-FA later found bone fragments that might have belonged to Hall and Marshall, but DNA tests proved inconclusive due to the small size of the fragments. Hargrove, Hall, and Marshall all received Purple Hearts from the U.S. Marine Corps. Hargrove's family did not receive the award until 1999, after investigative journalist and author Ralph Wetterhahn published several articles in popular magazines about his findings.\n\nIn 2007, Hargrove's cousin, Cary Turner, began a campaign to have Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC), the successor agency to JTF-FA, return to Koh Tang to search for Hargrove's remains. In October 2008 JPAC was reported to have found four sets of remains in an area indicated by Em Son as being where the American suspected to be Hargrove was buried. One of the sets of remains was said to be Caucasian in nature, but DNA analysis was needed before the identity could be confirmed.\n\nThe reaction of the American public was favorable. The President's overall approval rating rose 11% points.\n\nA number of U.S. military personnel were awarded medals following the events, including:\n\n\nFour Airmen were awarded the Air Force Cross:\n\n\nU.S. estimates of Khmer Rouge casualties were 13–25 killed on Koh Tang with an unknown number killed on Swift Boats and on the Cambodian mainland.\n\nCasualties during the operation were 10 U.S. Marines, two Navy corpsmen, and an Air Force crewman killed in the crash of \"Knife 31\"; an Air Force crewman killed in the crash of \"Knife 21\"; one Marine killed in action on the West Beach; and three Marines missing in action and presumed dead. Fifty were wounded including thirty-five Marines and six airmen.\nIn addition a CH-53 crashed due to mechanical failure on the way to U-Tapao airfield, killing eighteen USAF Security Police and five flight crew.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1999, U.S. and Cambodian investigators conducted seven joint investigations, led by the Joint Task Force-Full Accounting. On three occasions Cambodian authorities unilaterally turned over remains believed to be those of American servicemen. In October and November 1995, U.S. and Cambodian specialists conducted an underwater recovery of the \"Knife 31\" crash site where they located numerous remains, personal effects and aircraft debris associated with the loss. , a U.S. Navy salvage vessel, enabled the specialists to conduct their excavation offshore. In addition to the support provided by the Cambodian government, the Government of Vietnam also interviewed two Vietnamese informants in Ho Chi Minh City who turned over remains that were later positively identified. As a result of these investigations the remains of 2LT Richard Vandegeer, LCPL Gregory S Copenhaver, LCPL Andres Garcia, PFC Lynn Blessing, PFC Walter Boyd, PFC Antonio R Sandoval and PFC Kelton R. Turner were identified. In 2012 the remains of PFC James Jacques, PFC Richard W Rivenburgh and PFC James Maxwell were identified.\n\nThe \"\"Mayaguez\" incident\" had a direct effect on the political situation in Thailand, as news of the operation reached Bangkok protests began outside the U.S. Embassy. The U-Tapao air base had been used by U.S. rescue forces despite an explicit refusal of permission by the relatively new civilian Thai government (after being refused by the Thai government, the US sought and obtained permission from the Thai military to proceed), resulting in considerable anger towards the United States. The Thai government called the act a violation of Thailand's sovereignty and called for the immediate withdrawal of all U.S. forces from U-Tapao.\n\nSome congressmen were dissatisfied with the level of consultation they received under the War Powers Resolution. Senator Mike Mansfield was the most critical, saying \"we were informed, not consulted\". Senator Thomas Eagleton introduced an amendment to the War Powers Resolution that added the rescue of nationals to the list of situations not requiring prior approval by Congress, but also stipulating that only minimum force would be used in rescue.\n\nOn June 23, 1975, the House of Representatives Subcommittee on International Political and Military Affairs asked the General Accounting Office to review all aspects of the incident. On the War Powers Resolution, the General Accounting Office report's assessment was \"The available evidence suggests less than full compliance with Section 3 [of the War Powers Resolution].\"\n\nSome crew members brought lawsuits in admiralty law at the San Francisco Superior Court against Sea-Land Service Inc relating to the incident. The crew members claimed that the defendant's Master was derelict in his duty by \"recklessly venturing into known dangerous and hostile waters of foreign sovereignty (Cambodia)\" inviting the capture. Evidence was provided that \"Mayaguez\" was not flying a flag, and had sailed about two nautical miles off Poulo Wai. In June 1977, a settlement was reached. In February 1979 another settlement was reached by other crew members, making a total settlement of $388,000 to the crew members taking legal action.\n\nThe U.S. military received much criticism for its handling of the incident. In addition to the failure of intelligence to determine the whereabouts of the crew of \"Mayaguez\" and the presence of a sizable hostile force on Koh Tang, the timing of the operation was questioned until it became clear that combat had been underway four hours before the crew was released. Within the services, the Marines in particular were critical of the \"ad hoc\" nature of the joint operation and the perceived pressure from the Administration for hasty action, although the success of Operation Frequent Wind had been the basis for many decisions made during the crisis. Vice Admiral George P. Steele, the Seventh Fleet commander, later stated that: \"The sad part of the \"Mayaguez\" is that we had sufficient force coming up with the Seventh Fleet, after it had been turned around from the evacuation of Vietnam stand down, to seize Southern Cambodia. I begged for another day or two, rather than commit forces piecemeal as we did ... The idea that we could use U.S. Air Force air police and Air Force helicopters as an assault force appears to me as ridiculous today as it did then.\"\n\nWhen many of the coordination and communications problems arose again during Operation Eagle Claw, the hostage rescue mission in Iran in 1980, significant changes in joint and special operations were brought about.\n\nIn 1996 the \"Mayaguez\"-Marine Corps Memorial was dedicated in the grounds of the U.S. embassy in Phnom Penh by then Ambassador Kenneth M. Quinn and Senator John McCain. The memorial lists the names of the 18 U.S. servicemembers killed and missing at Koh Tang and Marine Security Guard Sergeant Charles \"Wayne\" Turberville killed in a Khmer Rouge grenade attack on 26 September 1971.\n\nAlthough the \"Mayaguez\" incident is often referred to as the last battle of the Vietnam War, U.S. military personnel who participated in it are not eligible for the Vietnam Service Medal by virtue of participating in that battle alone. The Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal is authorized instead for military members who participated in the battle. A congressional bill was introduced in 2016 to award veterans of the \"Mayaguez\" battle the medal, but the bill was referred to committee, effectively ending it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062276", "title": "Paramaccan people", "text": "Paramaccan people\n\nThe Paramaccan are a Bushinengue ethnic group living in the forested interior of Suriname, mainly in the Marowijne District.\n\nIt is also the eponymous term for their language, which is English-based with influences from Portuguese and other languages. It is similar to the languages spoken by the Aluku and Kwinti.\n\nIt has less than 1,000 speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "24134828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24134828", "title": "Permai", "text": "Permai\n\nThe Indonesian Marhaen People's Union (), generally known by its acronym Permai (meaning 'beautiful'), was a social movement in Indonesia, functioning both as a political party and an Abangan mystical association. The organisation was founded on 17 December 1945. Permai was led by Mei Kartawinata.\n\nPermai called its doctrine Marhaenism. It beliefs were said to have been revealed to the Permai founder during meditation. The movement claimed to practice 'pure native science', i.e. pre-Hindu and pre-Islamic 'original' Javanese beliefs. This set of ideas was combined with support for Indonesian Pancasila nationalism. Permai was strongly opposed to Islam, arguing that it was a foreign religion, in contradiction to Javanese culture and traditions. On the other hand, whilst officially rejecting Hinduism, the movement had incorporated many Hindu practices into its doctrine.\n\nIn February 1948 the Tan Malaka-led Revolutionary People's Movement was founded, with Permai as one of its constituents.\n\nThe outspoken anti-Islamic profile of Permai brought it into collision with Islamist political forces. In 1954 mass protests were launched against statements made by the Permai leader Mei Kartawinata. According to some accounts, these protests mustered half a million participants. Also, the holding of Permai weddings and funerals provoked clashes with Muslim organizations (Permai was not a recognized religion, and thus these ceremonies had no official stature).\n\nPermai obtained 149,287 votes in the 1955 legislative election (0.4% of the national vote), and won a seat in the parliament. After the election, the Permai MP joined the National Progressive Fraction, a body of ten MPs from Java. In the 1955 Constituent Assembly election, the party obtained 164,386 votes (0.43%) and two seats in the assembly.\n"}
{"id": "2752713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2752713", "title": "Precarium", "text": "Precarium\n\nThe precarium (plural precaria)—or precaria (plural precariae) in the feminine form—is a form of land tenure in which a petitioner (grantee) receives a property for a specific amount of time without any change of ownership. The precarium is thus a free gift made on request (or \"precarius\", whence \"prayer\") and can be revoked. The grantor can reclaim the land and evict the grantee at any time, and the grantee's hold on the land is said to be \"precarious\". (The adjectival form \"precarial\" is also used.) The precarium arose in the late Roman Empire. In the Middle Ages it became a legal fiction, and the two parties usually signed a contract specifying the rent or services owed by the petitioner. Some precaria eventually became hereditary fiefs. In the Merovingian period the feminine form (singular \"precaria\") became common, but in the eighth century the term \"beneficium\" began to replace \"precarium\", although the institutions were practically identical.\n\nPrecarium is discussed in the legal digests of Justinian, and seems to have existed in 6th century Visigothic Spain and France.\n\nIn feudalism, the use of church lands to support warriors contributed to the growth of precaria in the eighth century in Catholic Europe. Modern historians have sometimes called these lands fiefs; however, to the extent that they were church property and not property of the lord or king—although that was a flexible distinction in the ninth and tenth centuries—they were not fiefs. The distinction was between the right of ownership in the ecclesiastical manner (\"jure proprio et more ecclesiastico\"), which remained with the church, and the right of benefit and usufruct (\"jure beneficiario et usufructuario\"), which was ceded away.\n\nThe lord or king often paid a fixed rent annually to the church or monastery for the land. This was usually expressed as a proportion of the revenue generated by the property, typicall a \"ninth and tenth\" (\"nona et decima\"), that is, a tenth of the original produce and then a ninth of what remained—the equivalent of a fifth of the original total. The vassal or knight using the land did not hold it outright, but during the lord's pleasure he enjoyed all the profits and advantages of the land and its buildings, normally intended to supply the wherewithal required to maintain him and his retinue.\n\nIf the church did not have enough funds to stay out of poverty the entire land under precaria could be restored to the church. Precaria not only refers to the contract, but also the land under the contract, the benefice (although the term benefice is also used to describe similar but non-religious circumstances).\n\n"}
{"id": "45800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45800", "title": "Public capital", "text": "Public capital\n\nPublic capital is the aggregate body of government-owned assets that are used as a means for productivity. Such assets span a wide range including: large components such as highways, airports, roads, transit systems, and railways; local, municipal components such as public education, public hospitals, police and fire protection, prisons, and courts; and critical components including water and sewer systems, public electric and gas utilities, and telecommunications. Often, public capital is defined as government outlay, in terms of money, and as physical stock, in terms of infrastructure.\n\nIn 1988, the U.S. infrastructure system including all public and private non-residential capital stock was valued at $7 trillion, an immense portfolio to operate and manage. And according to the Congressional Budget Office, in 2004 the U.S. invested $400 billion in infrastructure capital across federal, state, and local levels including the private sectors on transportation networks, schools, highways, water systems, energy, and telecommunications services. While public spending on infrastructure grew by 1.7% annually between 1956 and 2004, it has remained constant as a share of GDP since early 1980s. Despite the value and investment of public capital, growing delays in air and surface transportation, aging electric grid, an untapped renewable energy sector, and inadequate school facilities all have justified additional funding in public capital investment. \n\nThe American Society of Civil Engineers have continued to give low marks, averaging a D grade, for the nation’s infrastructure since its inception of the Report Card in 1998. In 2009, each category of infrastructure varied from C+ to D- grades with an estimated $2.2 trillion of needed public capital investment. The aviation sector remains mired in continued delays in the reauthorization of federal programs and an outdated air traffic control system. One in four rural bridges and one in three urban bridges are structurally deficient. States are understaffed and underfunded to conduct safety inspections of dams. Texas alone has only seven engineers and an annual budget of $435,000 to oversee more than 7,400 dams. Electricity demand outpaces energy supply transmission and generation. Almost half of the water locks maintained by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are functionally obsolete. Drinking water faces an annual shortfall of $11 billion to manage their aging facilities and comply with federal regulations. Leaking pipes lose an estimated of clean drinking water a day. Under tight budgets, national, state, and local parks suffer neglect. Without adequate funding, rail cannot meet future freight tonnage load. Schools require a staggering $127 billion to bring facilities to decent operating condition. Billions of gallons of untreated sewage continue to be discharged into U.S.’s surface waters each year.\n\nOne of the most classic macroeconomic inquiries is the effect of public capital investment on economic growth. While many analysts debate the magnitude, evidence has shown a statistically significant positive relationship between infrastructure investment and economic performance. U.S. Federal Reserve economist David Alan Aschauer asserted an increase of the public capital stock by 1% would result in an increase of the total factor productivity by 0.4%. Aschauer argues that the golden age of the 1950s and 1960s were partly due to the post-World War II substantial investment in core infrastructure (highways, mass transit, airports, water systems, electric/gas facilities). Conversely, the drop of U.S. productivity growth in the 1970s and 1980s was in response to the decrease of continual public capital investment and not the decline of technological innovation. Likewise, the European Union nations have declined public capital investment through the same years, also witnessing declining productivity growth rates. A similar situation emerges in developing nations. Analyzing OECD and non-OECD countries’ real-GDP growth rates from 1960 to 2000 with public capital as an explanatory variable (not using public investment rates), Arslanalp, Borhorst, Gupta, and Sze (2010) show that increases in the public capital stock does correlate with increases in growth. However, this relationship depends on initial levels of public capital and income levels for the country. Thus, OECD countries witness a stronger positive link in the short term while non-OECD countries experience a stronger positive link in the long term. Hence, developing countries can benefit from non-concessional foreign borrowing to finance high-prospect public capital investments.\n\nGiven this relationship of public capital and productivity, public capital becomes a third input in the standard, neoclassical production function:\n\nwhere: \n\nIn this form, public capital has a direct influence on productivity as a third variable. Additionally, public capital has an indirect influence on multifactor productivity as it affects the other two inputs of labor and private capital. Despite this unique nature, public capital investment, used in the production process of nearly every sector, is not sufficient on its own to generate sustained economic growth. Thus, rather than the ends, public capital is the means. That is, instead of being seen as intermediate goods used as resources by businesses, public capital should be seen as goods which are used to make the final goods and services to consumers-taxpayers. Note that public capital levels should not be too high that it leads to financing costs and high tax rates issues which will negate the positive benefits of such investments. Moreover, infrastructure services carry the market-distorting features of pure, non-rival public goods; network externalities; natural monopolies; and the common resource problem such as congestion and overuse.\n\nEmpirical models that attempt to estimate the public investment and economic growth link involve a wide variety including: the Cobb-Douglas production function; a behavioral approach cost/profit function which includes public capital stock; Vector Auto Regression (VAR) models; and government investment growth regressions. These models nonetheless contend with reverse causality, heterogeneity, endogeneity, and nonlinearities in trying to capture the public capital and economic growth link. New Keynesian models, though, analyze the effect of government spending through the supply side rather than traditional Keynesian models that analyzes it through the demand side. Therefore, a temporary surge of infrastructure investment yields an expansion of output, and vice versa that dwindling infrastructure, like in the 1970s, hamper longer-term movement in productivity. Furthermore, new research on regional growth (as opposed to national growth with GDP) shows a strong positive relationship between public capital and productivity. Both fixed costs and transport costs lower with expanded infrastructure in localities and the resulting cluster of industries. As a result, economic activity grows along its pattern of trade. Therefore, the importance of regional clusters and metropolitan economies comes into effect.\n\nBeyond economic performance, public capital investment yields returns in quality of life indicators such as health, safety, recreation, aesthetics, and leisure time and activities. In example, highways provide better access and mobility for increased discretionary time and recreational outlets; mass transit can improve air quality with reduced number of private vehicles; improved municipal waste facilities reduces toxic groundwater contamination and better green space aesthetics such as parks; expanded water facilities aids in health and sanitation and environment such as reducing odor and sewer overflows. Furthermore, infrastructure adds to community ambience and quality of place with livelier downtowns, vibrant waterfronts, efficient land uses, compact spaces for commerce and recreation.\n\nOn the contrary, inadequate public capital impairs quality of life and social well-being. Over-capacity landfills lead to groundwater contamination, having deleterious effects on health. Deficient supply and quality of mass transit services impacts transit-dependents on their access to opportunity and resources. Increasing congestion in airports and roadways causes loss of discretionary time and recreational activities. The lack of efficient U.S. freight and passenger rail service will neither aid in handling the “perfect storm” of environmental and energy sustainability nor meet the global competitive need of transporting goods and services at heightened speeds and times. Also, the continued loss of footing in clean energy technology will contribute to U.S.’s future loss of prosperity on the global stage in terms of the carbon footprint and economy.\n\nPerhaps the largest contribution to the public works system in the U.S. came out of President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal initiatives particularly the creation of the Works Progress Administration (WPA) in 1935. At a time of a deep economic crisis, the WPA employed at its peak 3.35 millions unemployed heads-of-households to work in rebuilding the country. The program helped construct millions of roads, bridges, parks, schools, hospitals, and levees while also providing educational programs, childcare, job training, and medical services. The overall public spending level for the program, unprecedented at the time, was $4.8 billion ($76 billion in 2008 dollars), and helped to stimulate the economy through public works projects. \n\nSince then, the U.S. has contributed to other large infrastructure programs including the Interstate Highway System, 1956-1990, with a dedicated financing system through the gas tax and a matching contribution between federal government and states at 90% to 10%. Also, the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Clean Water Act of 1972 provided a public capital investment of $40 billion in constructing and upgrading sewage treatment facilities with “significant positive impacts on the Nation’s water quality.” Considered by the National Academy of Engineering to be the greatest engineering achievement of the 20th century, the North American electric grid carries electricity over on high-voltage transmission lines across the U.S. Though currently facing aging facilities and equipment, this public capital investment has ubiquitously reached millions of homes and businesses.\n\nRecently, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) is another example of large public capital investment. Of the $311 billion in appropriations, about $120 billion are set aside for crucial investment in Infrastructure and Science and Energy. Some of ARRA’s aims include smart grid technology, retrofitting of homes and federal buildings, automated aviation traffic control, advancing freight and passenger rail services, and upgrading water and waste facilities.\n\nWorldwide, transformative public capital investments are taking place. China’s ambitious rapid high-speed rail program is estimated to extend 18,000 km by 2020. By the end of 2008, the country had a fleet of over 24,000 locomotives, the most lines in the world, the fastest express train in service, and longest high-speed track in the world. UK, Denmark, and other countries in northern Europe that surround the Baltic Sea and North Sea, continue to develop their rapid expansion of off-shore wind farms. With continued expansion of terminals and connection to nation’s comprehensive transport system, the Hong Kong International Airport is one of the largest engineering and architectural projects in the world. In the last decade, Chile installed five combined cycle gas-turbined (CCGT) power plants to meet its nation’s growing energy needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "26494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26494", "title": "Race and intelligence", "text": "Race and intelligence\n\nThe connection between race and intelligence has been a subject of debate in both popular science and academic research since the inception of IQ testing in the early 20th century. There remains some debate as to whether and to what extent differences in intelligence test scores reflect environmental factors as opposed to genetic ones, as well as to the definitions of what \"race\" and \"intelligence\" are, and whether they can be objectively defined. Currently, there is no non-circumstantial evidence that these differences in test scores have a genetic component, although some researchers believe that the existing circumstantial evidence makes it at least plausible that hard evidence for a genetic component will eventually be found. Still, inferences that intelligence as measured by IQ are equal among the races when controlled for environmental factors has not yet been conclusively proven with critics largely believing that the Intelligence Quotient itself has inherent biases, and thus that differences are due to a cultural bias.\n\nThe first test showing differences in IQ test results between different population groups in the US was the tests of United States Army recruits in World War I. In the 1920s groups of eugenics lobbyists argued that this demonstrated that African-Americans and certain immigrant groups were of inferior intellect to Anglo-Saxon whites due to innate biological differences, using this as an argument for policies of racial segregation. Soon, other studies appeared, contesting these conclusions and arguing instead that the Army tests had not adequately controlled for the environmental factors such as socio-economic and educational inequality between blacks and whites.\n\nThe debate reemerged again in 1969, when Arthur Jensen championed the view that for genetic reasons Africans were less intelligent than whites and that compensatory education for African-American children was therefore doomed to be ineffective. In 1994, the book \"The Bell Curve\" argued that social inequality in the United States could largely be explained as a result of IQ differences between races and individuals rather than being their cause, and rekindled the public and scholarly debate with renewed force. During the debates following the book's publication, the American Anthropological Association and the American Psychological Association (APA) published official statements regarding the issue, both highly skeptical of some of the book's claims, although the APA report called for more empirical research on the issue.\n\nClaims of races having different intelligence were used to justify colonialism, slavery, racism, social Darwinism, and racial eugenics. Racial thinkers such as Arthur de Gobineau relied crucially on the assumption that black people were innately inferior to whites in developing their ideologies of white supremacy. Even enlightenment thinkers such as Thomas Jefferson, a slave owner, believed blacks to be innately inferior to whites in physique and intellect.\n\nThe first practical intelligence test was developed between 1905 and 1908 by Alfred Binet in France for school placement of children. Binet warned that results from his test should not be assumed to measure innate intelligence or used to label individuals permanently. Binet's test was translated into English and revised in 1916 by Lewis Terman (who introduced IQ scoring for the test results) and published under the name the Stanford–Binet Intelligence Scales. As Terman's test was published, there was great concern in the United States about the abilities and skills of recent immigrants. Different immigrant nationalities were sometimes thought to belong to different races, such as Slavs. A different set of tests developed by Robert Yerkes were used to evaluate draftees for World War I, and researchers found that people from southern and eastern Europe scored lower than native-born Americans, that Americans from northern states had higher scores than Americans from southern states, and that Black Americans scored lower than white Americans. The results were widely publicized by a lobby of anti-immigration activists, including the New York patrician and conservationist Madison Grant, who considered the nordic race to be superior, but under threat of immigration by inferior breeds. In his influential work \"A Study of American Intelligence\" psychologist Carl Brigham used the results of the Army tests to argue for a stricter immigration policy, limiting immigration to countries considered to belong to the \"nordic race\".\n\nIn the 1920s, states like Virginia enacted eugenic laws, such as its 1924 Racial Integrity Act, which established the one-drop rule as law. On the other hand, many scientists reacted to eugenicist claims linking abilities and moral character to racial or genetic ancestry. They pointed to the contribution of environment to test results (such as speaking English as a second language). By the mid-1930s, many United States psychologists adopted the view that environmental and cultural factors played a dominant role in IQ test results, among them Carl Brigham who repudiated his own previous arguments, on the grounds that he realized that the tests were not a measure of innate intelligence. Discussion of the issue in the United States also influenced German Nazi claims of the \"nordics\" being a \"master race\", influenced by Grant's writings. As the American public sentiment shifted against the Germans, claims of racial differences in intelligence increasingly came to be regarded as problematic. Anthropologists such as Franz Boas, and Ruth Benedict and Gene Weltfish, did much to demonstrate the unscientific status of many of the claims about racial hierarchies of intelligence. Nonetheless a powerful eugenics and segregation lobby funded largely by textile-magnate Wickliffe Draper, continued to publicize studies using intelligence studies as an argument for eugenics, segregation, and anti-immigration legislation.\n\nAs the de-segregation of the American South was begun in the 1950s the debate about black intelligence resurfaced. Audrey Shuey, funded by Draper's Pioneer Fund, published a new analysis of Yerkes' tests, concluding that blacks really were of inferior intellect to whites. This study was used by segregationists as an argument that it was to the advantage of black children to be educated separately from the superior white children. In the 1960s, the debate was further revived when William Shockley publicly defended the argument that Black children were innately unable to learn as well as White children. Arthur Jensen stimulated scholarly discussion of the issue with his \"Harvard Educational Review\" article, \"How Much Can We Boost IQ and Scholastic Achievement?\" Jensen's article questioned remedial education for African-American children; he suggested their poor educational performance reflected an underlying genetic cause rather than lack of stimulation at home. Jensen continued to publish on the issue until his death in 2012.\n\nAnother revival of public debate followed the appearance of \"The Bell Curve\" (1994), a book by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray, who strongly emphasized the societal effects of low IQ (focusing in most chapters strictly on the non-Hispanic white population of the United States). In 1994, a group of 52 researchers (mostly psychologists) signed an editorial statement \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence\" in response to the book. \"The Bell Curve\" also led to a 1995 report from the American Psychological Association, \"\", acknowledging a difference between mean IQ scores of whites and blacks as well as the absence of any adequate explanation of it, either environmental or genetic. \"The Bell Curve\" prompted the publication of several multiple-author books responding from a variety of points of view. They include \"The Bell Curve Debate\" (1995), \"\" (1996) and a second edition of \"The Mismeasure of Man\" (1996) by Stephen Jay Gould. Jensen's last book-length publication, \"\" was published a few years later in 1998.\n\nThe review article \"Thirty Years of Research on Race Differences in Cognitive Ability\" by Rushton and Jensen was published in 2005. The article was followed by a series of responses, some in support, some critical. Richard Nisbett, another psychologist who had also commented at the time, later included an amplified version of his critique as part of the book \"Intelligence and How to Get It: Why Schools and Cultures Count\" (2009). Rushton and Jensen in 2010 made a point-by-point reply to this thereafter. A comprehensive review article on the issue was published in the journal \"American Psychologist\" in 2012.\n\nSome of the authors proposing genetic explanations for group differences have received funding from the Pioneer Fund, which was headed by Rushton until his death in 2012. The Southern Poverty Law Center lists the Pioneer Fund as a hate group, citing the fund's history, its funding of race and intelligence research, and its connections with racist individuals. Other researchers have criticized the Pioneer Fund for promoting scientific racism, eugenics and white supremacy.\n\nThe concept of intelligence and the degree to which intelligence is measurable is a matter of debate. While there is some consensus about how to define intelligence, it is not universally accepted that it is something that can be unequivocally measured by a single figure. A recurring criticism is that different societies value and promote different kinds of skills and that the concept of intelligence is therefore culturally variable and cannot be measured by the same criteria in different societies. Consequently, some critics argue that proposed relationships to other variables are necessarily tentative.\n\nIn relation to the study of racial differences in IQ test scores it becomes a crucial question what exactly it is that IQ tests measure. Arthur Jensen was a proponent of the view that there is a correlation between scores on all the known types of IQ tests and that this correlation points to an underlying factor of general intelligence, or \"g\". In most conceptions of \"g\" it is considered to be fairly fixed in a given individual and unresponsive to training or other environmental influences. In this view test score differences, especially in those tasks considered to be particularly \"g-loaded\" reflect the test takers innate capability.\nOther psychometricians argue that, while there may or may not be a general intelligence factor, performance on tests rely crucially on knowledge acquired through prior exposure to the types of tasks that such tests contain. This view would mean that tests cannot be expected to reflect only the innate abilities of a given individual, because the expression of potential will always be mediated by experience and cognitive habits. It also means that comparison of test scores from persons with widely different life experiences and cognitive habits is not an expression of their relative innate potentials.\n\nThe majority of anthropologists today consider race to be a sociopolitical phenomenon rather than a biological one, a view supported by considerable genetics research. The current mainstream view in the social sciences and biology is that race is a social construction based on folk ideologies that construct groups based on social disparities and superficial physical characteristics. state, \"Race is a socially constructed concept, not a biological one. It derives from people's desire to classify.\" The concept of human \"races\" as natural and separate divisions within the human species has also been rejected by the American Anthropological Association. The official position of the AAA, adopted in 1998, is that advances in scientific knowledge have made it \"clear that human populations are not unambiguous, clearly demarcated, biologically distinct groups\" and that \"any attempt to establish lines of division among biological populations [is] both arbitrary and subjective.\" However within population genetics there is ongoing debate about whether the social category of \"race\" can and should be used as a proxy for individual genetic ancestry. With current methods of genetic analysis it is possible to determine the composition of genetic ancestry of an individual with significant precision. This is because different genes occur with different frequencies in different geographically defined populations, and by correlating a large amount of genes through cluster analysis it is probable to determine with high likelihood the geographic origins of an individual through DNA. This suggests to some that the classical socially defined genetic categories really have a biological basis, in the sense that racial categorization is a visual estimate of a person's continental ancestry based on their phenotype—which correlates with genotypical ancestry as determined by DNA tests.\n\nRace in studies of human intelligence is almost always determined using self-reports, rather than based on analyses of the genetic characteristics of the tested individuals. According to psychologist David Rowe, self-report is the preferred method for racial classification in studies of racial differences because classification based on genetic markers alone ignore the \"cultural, behavioral, sociological, psychological, and epidemiological variables\" that distinguish racial groups. Hunt and Carlson write that \"Nevertheless, self-identification is a surprisingly reliable guide to genetic composition. applied mathematical clustering techniques to sort genomic markers for over 3,600 people in the United States and Taiwan into four groups. There was almost perfect agreement between cluster assignment and individuals' self-reports of racial/ethnic identification as white, black, East Asian, or Latino.\" Sternberg and Grigorenko disagree with Hunt and Carlson's interpretation of Tang, \"Tang et al.'s point was that ancient geographic ancestry rather than current residence is associated with self-identification and not that such self-identification provides evidence for the existence of biological race.\"\n\nAnthropologist C. Loring Brace and geneticist Joseph Graves disagree with the idea that cluster analysis and the correlation between self-reported race and genetic ancestry support biological race. They argue that while it is possible to find biological and genetic variation corresponding roughly to the groupings normally defined as races, this is true for almost all geographically distinct populations. The cluster structure of the genetic data is dependent on the initial hypotheses of the researcher and the populations sampled. When one samples continental groups, the clusters become continental; if one had chosen other sampling patterns, the clusters would be different. therefore concludes that, while differences in particular allele frequencies can be used to identify populations that loosely correspond to the racial categories common in Western social discourse, the differences are of no more biological significance than the differences found between any human populations (e.g., the Spanish and Portuguese).\n\nEarl B. Hunt agrees that racial categories are defined by social conventions, though he points out that they also correlate with clusters of both genetic traits and cultural traits. Hunt explains that, due to this, racial IQ differences are caused by these variables that correlate with race, and race itself is rarely a causal variable. Researchers who study racial disparities in test scores are studying the relationship between the scores and the many race-related factors which could potentially affect performance. These factors include health, wealth, biological differences, and education.\n\nThe study of human intelligence is one of the most controversial topics in psychology. It remains unclear whether group differences in intelligence test scores are caused by heritable factors or by \"other correlated demographic variables such as socioeconomic status, education level, and motivation.\"\nHunt and Carlson outlined four contemporary positions on differences in IQ based on race or ethnicity. The first is that these reflect real differences in average group intelligence, which is caused by a combination of environmental factors and heritable differences in brain function. A second position is that differences in average cognitive ability between races are caused entirely by social and/or environmental factors. A third position holds that differences in average cognitive ability between races do not exist, and that the differences in average test scores are the result of inappropriate use of the tests themselves. Finally, a fourth position is that either or both of the concepts of race and general intelligence are poorly constructed and therefore any comparisons between races are meaningless.\n\nIn the United States, individuals identifying themselves as Asian tend to have higher average IQ scores than do Caucasians, who, in turn, have higher average IQs than African Americans. Nevertheless, greater variation in IQ scores exists within each ethnic group than between them.\n\nEast Asians have tended to score relatively higher on visuospatial subtests with lower scores in verbal subtests while Ashkenazi Jews score higher in verbal subtests with lower scores in visuospatial subtests. The few Amerindian populations who have been systematically tested, including Arctic Natives, tend to score worse on average than white populations but better on average than black populations.\n\nThe racial groups studied in the United States and Europe are not necessarily representative samples for populations in other parts of the world. Cultural differences may also factor in IQ test performance and outcomes. Therefore, results in the United States and Europe do not necessarily correlate to results in other populations.\n\nA number of studies have compared average IQ scores between the world's nations, finding patterns of difference between continental populations similar to those associated with race. Richard Lynn and Tatu Vanhanen have argued that populations in the third world, particularly populations in Africa, tend to have limited intelligence because of their genetic composition and that, consequently, education cannot be effective in creating social and economic development in third world countries. Lynn and Vanhanen's studies have been severely criticized for relying on low quality data and for choosing sources in ways that seem to be biased severely towards underestimating the average IQ potential of developing nations, particularly in Africa. Nonetheless there is a general consensus that the average IQ in developing countries is lower than in developed countries, but subsequent research has favored environmental explanations for this fact, such as lack of basic infrastructure related to health and education.\n\nIn the 2002 book \"IQ and the Wealth of Nations\", and \"IQ and Global Inequality\" in 2006, Richard Lynn and Tatu Vanhanen created estimates of average IQs for 113 nations. They estimated IQs of 79 other nations based on neighboring nations or via other means. They saw a consistent correlation between national development and national IQ averages. They found the highest national IQs among Western and East Asian developed nations and the lowest national IQs in the world's least developed nations among the indigenous peoples in the regions of Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin America. In a meta-analysis of studies of IQ estimates in Sub-Saharan Africa, concluded that Lynn and Vanhanen had relied on unsystematic methodology by failing to publish their criteria for including or excluding studies. They found that Lynn and Vanhanen's exclusion of studies had depressed their IQ estimate for sub-Saharan Africa, and that including studies excluded in \"IQ and Global Inequality\" resulted in average IQ of 82 for sub-Saharan Africa, lower than the average in Western countries, but higher than Lynn and Vanhanen's estimate of 67. Wicherts at al. conclude that this difference is likely due to sub-Saharan Africa having limited access to modern advances in education, nutrition and health care.\n\nA 2010 systematic review by the same research team, along with Jerry S. Carlson, found that compared to American norms, the average IQ of sub-Saharan Africans was about 80. The same review concluded that the Flynn effect had not yet taken hold in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nA 2007 meta-analysis by Rindermann found many of the same groupings and correlations found by Lynn and Vanhanen, with the lowest scores in sub-Saharan Africa, and a correlation of .60 between cognitive skill and GDP per capita. considers Rindermann's analysis to be much more reliable than Lynn and Vanhanen's. By measuring the relationship between educational data and social wellbeing over time, this study also performed a causal analysis, finding that when nations invest in education this leads to increased well-being later on. Kamin (2006) has also criticized Lynn and Vanhanen's work on the IQs of sub-Saharan Africans.\n\nWicherts, Borsboom & Dolan (2010) argue that studies reporting support for evolutionary theories of intelligence based on national IQ data suffer from multiple fatal methodological flaws. For example, they state that such studies \"...assume that the Flynn Effect is either nonexistent or invariant with respect to different regions of the world, that there have been no migrations and climatic changes over the course of evolution, and that there have been no trends over the last century in indicators of reproductive strategies (e.g., declines in fertility and infant mortality).\" They also showed that a strong degree of confounding exists between national IQs and current national development status.\n\nSimilarly, Pesta & Poznanski (2014) showed that the average temperature of a given U.S. state is strongly associated with that state's average IQ and other well-being variables, despite the fact that evolution has not had enough time to operate on non-Native American residents of the United States. They also noted that this association persisted even after controlling for race, and concluded that \"Evolution is therefore not necessary for temperature and IQ/well-being to co-vary meaningfully across geographic space.\"\n\nFor the past century raw scores on IQ tests have been rising; this score increase is known as the \"Flynn effect,\" named after James R. Flynn. In the United States, the increase was continuous and approximately linear from the earliest years of testing to about 1998 when the gains stopped and some tests even showed decreasing test scores. For example, in the United States the average scores of blacks on some IQ tests in 1995 were the same as the scores of whites in 1945. As one pair of academics phrased it, \"the typical African American today probably has a slightly higher IQ than the grandparents of today's average white American.\"\n\nFlynn has argued that given that these changes take place between one generation and the next it is highly unlikely that genetic factors could account for the increasing scores, which must then be caused by environmental factors. The Flynn Effect has often been used as an argument that the racial gap in IQ test scores must be environmental too, but this is not generally agreed – others have asserted that the two may have entirely different causes. A meta-analysis by Te Nijenhuis and van der Flier (2013) concluded that the Flynn effect and group differences in intelligence were likely to have different causes. They stated that the Flynn effect is caused primarily by environmental factors and that it's unlikely these same environmental factors play an important role in explaining group differences in IQ. The importance of the Flynn effect in the debate over the causes for the IQ gap lies in demonstrating that environmental factors may cause changes in test scores on the scale of 1 SD. This had previously been doubted.\n\nA separate phenomenon from the Flynn effect has been the discovery that the IQ gap has been gradually closing over the last decades of the 20th century, as black test-takers increased their average scores relative to white test-takers. For instance, Vincent reported in 1991 that the black-white IQ gap was decreasing among children, but that it was remaining constant among adults. Similarly, a 2006 study by Dickens and Flynn estimated that the difference between mean scores of blacks and whites closed by about 5 or 6 IQ points between 1972 and 2002, a reduction of about one-third. In the same period, the educational achievement disparity also diminished. However, this was challenged by Rushton & Jensen who claim the difference remains stable. In a 2006 study, Murray agreed with Dickens and Flynn that there has been a narrowing of the difference; \"Dickens' and Flynn's estimate of 3–6 IQ points from a base of about 16–18 points is a useful, though provisional, starting point\". But he argued that this has stalled and that there has been no further narrowing for people born after the late 1970s. A subsequent study by Murray, based on the Woodcock–Johnson Tests of Cognitive Abilities, estimated that the black-white IQ difference decreased by about one-half of one standard deviation from those born in the 1920s to those born in the second half of the 1960s and early 1970s. Recent reviews by Flynn and Dickens (2006), Mackintosh (2011), and Nisbett \"et al.\" 2012 accept the gradual closing of the gap as a fact. In his review of the historical trends, states: \"There is some variety in the results, but not a great deal. The African American means are about 1 standard deviation unit (15 points on the IQ scale) below the White means, and the Hispanic means fall in between.\"\n\nSome studies reviewed by found that rise in the average achievement of African Americans was caused by a reduction in the number of African American students in the lowest range of scores without a corresponding increase in the number of students in the highest ranges. A 2012 review of the literature found that the IQ gap had diminished by 0.33 standard deviations since first reported.\n\nA 2013 analysis of the National Assessment of Educational Progress found that from 1971 to 2008, the size of the black–white IQ gap in the United States decreased from 16.33 to 9.94 IQ points. It has also concluded however that, while IQ means are continuing to rise in all ethnic groups, this growth is occurring more slowly among 17-year-old students than among younger students and the black-white IQ gap is no longer narrowing. As of 2008, a study published in 2013 by Heiner Rindermann, Stefan Pinchelmann, and James Thompson have estimated the IQ means of 17-year-old black, white, and Hispanic students to range respectively from 90.45–94.15, 102.29–104.57 and 92.30–95.90 points. They explain that the gap may persist due to the crack epidemic, the degradation of African-American family structure, the rise of fraud in the educational system (especially with respect to \"No Child Left Behind\"), the decrease in unskilled real wages and employment among African-Americans due to globalization and minimum wage increases, differences in parental practices (such as breastfeeding or reading to children), and \"environmental conditions shaped by [African-Americans] themselves.\" To resolve this, they ultimately recommend the reestablishment of \"meritoric principles\" and \"blindly graded objective central exams,\" as opposed to \"ethnically based policies,\" in education.\n\nThe following environmental factors are some of those suggested as explaining a portion of the differences in average IQ between races. These factors are not mutually exclusive with one another, and some may, in fact, contribute directly to others. Furthermore, the relationship between genetics and environmental factors may be complicated. For example, the differences in socioeconomic environment for a child may be due to differences in genetic IQ for the parents, and the differences in average brain size between races could be the result of nutritional factors. All recent reviews agree that some environmental factors that are unequally distributed between racial groups have been shown to affect intelligence in ways that could contribute to the test score gap. However, currently, the question is whether these factors can account for the entire gap between white and black test scores, or only part of it. One group of scholars, including Richard E. Nisbett, James R. Flynn, Joshua Aronson, Diane Halpern, William Dickens, Eric Turkheimer (2012) have argued that the environmental factors so far demonstrated are sufficient to account for the entire gap, Nicholas Mackintosh (2011) considers this a reasonable argument, but argues that probably it is impossible to ever know for sure; another group including Earl B. Hunt (2010), Arthur Jensen, J. Philippe Rushton and Richard Lynn have argued that this is impossible. Jensen and Rushton consider that it may account for as little as 20% of the gap. Meanwhile, while Hunt considers this a vast overstatement, he nonetheless considers it likely that some portion of the gap will eventually be shown to be caused by genetic factors.\n\nA number of studies have reached the conclusion that IQ tests may be biased against certain groups. The validity and reliability of IQ scores obtained from outside the United States and Europe have been questioned, in part because of the inherent difficulty of comparing IQ scores between cultures. Several researchers have argued that cultural differences limit the appropriateness of standard IQ tests in non-industrialized communities.\n\nHowever, a 1996 report by the American Psychological Association states that controlled studies show that differences in mean IQ scores were not substantially due to bias in the content or administration of the IQ tests. Furthermore, the tests are equally valid predictors of future achievement for black and white Americans. This view is reinforced by Nicholas Mackintosh in his 1998 book \"IQ and Human Intelligence\", and by a 1999 literature review by . Today, test bias in the sense that some test items systematically give White test takers an unfair advantage because of the way the test has been elaborated is no longer considered a likely cause of the test score gap. However reviews by Hunt (2011) and Mackintosh (2011) do admit the possibility that IQ tests measure a cognitive skill that Blacks have less chance to develop, and that there is in this sense a bias in society that causes one group to perform under their true potential on the tests. But both scholars maintain that there is no evidence that current tests are systemically biased against black test takers.\n\nStereotype threat is the fear that one's behavior will confirm an existing stereotype of a group with which one identifies or by which one is defined; this fear may in turn lead to an impairment of performance. Testing situations that highlight the fact that intelligence is being measured tend to lower the scores of individuals from racial-ethnic groups who already score lower on average or are expected to score lower. Stereotype threat conditions cause larger than expected IQ differences among groups. Psychometrician Nicholas Mackintosh considers that there is little doubt that the effects of stereotype threat contribute to the IQ gap between blacks and whites.\n\nA large number of studies have shown that systemically disadvantaged minorities, such as the African American minority of the United States generally perform worse in the educational system and in intelligence tests than the majority groups or less disadvantaged minorities such as immigrant or \"voluntary\" minorities. The explanation of these findings may be that children of caste-like minorities, due to the systemic limitations of their prospects of social advancement, do not have \"effort optimism\", i.e. they do not have the confidence that acquiring the skills valued by majority society, such as those skills measured by IQ tests, is worthwhile. They may even deliberately reject certain behaviors that are seen as \"acting white.\"\n\nResearch published in 1997 indicates that part of the black-white gap in cognitive ability test scores is due to racial differences in test motivation.\n\nAttempts to replicate studies evincing significant effects of stereotype threat however have not yielded the same results. In 2004 Sackett et al. found that eliminating stereotype threat does not eliminate the racial test performance gap, and in 2005 Tyson et al. found African Americans to have motivation similar to or even better than that of white Americans. Self-affirmation exercises promoted by research scientists such as Geoffrey L. Cohen have not been shown to be effective by attempts to replicate his studies purporting them to be successful. A 2015 meta-analysis conducted by Flore & Wicherts of studies on the relationship between gender and stereotype threat found the observed estimates to be inflated by publication bias, arguing the true effect to be most likely near zero.\n\nDifferent aspects of the socioeconomic environment in which children are raised have been shown to correlate with part of the IQ gap, but they do not account for the entire gap. According to a 2006 review, these factors account for slightly less than half of one standard deviation of the gap. Generally the difference between mean test scores of blacks and whites is not eliminated when individuals and groups are matched on socioeconomic status (SES), suggesting that the relationship between IQ and SES is not simply one in which SES determines IQ. Rather it may be the case that differences in intelligence, particularly parental intelligence, may also cause differences in SES, making separating the two factors difficult. summarises data showing that, jointly, SES and parental IQ account for the full gap (in populations of young children, after controlling parental IQ and parental SES, the gap is not statistically different from zero). He argues the SES-linked components reflect parental occupation status, mother's verbal comprehension score and parent-child interaction quality. Hunt also reviews data showing that the correlation between home environment and IQ becomes weaker with age. Hart and Risley argue that in welfare, working-class, and professional families, children hear a large disparity in the amount of language (between 13 million and 45 million words) in the age range of 0–3, and that by age 9 these differences led to large differences in child outcomes.\n\nOther research has focussed on different causes of variation within low SES and high SES groups.\nIn the US, among low-SES groups, genetic differences account for a smaller proportion variance in IQ than among higher SES populations. Such effects are predicted by the \"bioecological\" hypothesis – that genotypes are transformed into phenotypes through nonadditive synergistic effects of the environment. suggest that high SES individuals are more likely to be able to develop their full biological potential, whereas low SES individuals are likely to be hindered in their development by adverse environmental conditions. The same review also points out that adoption studies generally are biased towards including only high and high middle SES adoptive families, meaning that they will tend to overestimate average genetic effects. They also note that studies of adoption from lower-class homes to middle-class homes have shown that such children experience a 12–18 pt gain in IQ relative to children who remain in low SES homes. A 2015 study found that environmental factors (namely, family income, maternal education, maternal verbal ability/knowledge, learning materials in the home, parenting factors (maternal sensitivity, maternal warmth and acceptance, and safe physical environment), child birth order, and child birth weight) accounted for the black-white gap in cognitive ability test scores.\n\nEnvironmental factors including lead exposure, breast feeding, and nutrition can significantly affect cognitive development and functioning. For example, iodine deficiency causes a fall, on average, of 12 IQ points. Such impairments may sometimes be permanent, sometimes be partially or wholly compensated for by later growth. The first two years of life is the critical time for malnutrition, the consequences of which are often irreversible and include poor cognitive development, educability, and future economic productivity. The African American population of the United States is statistically more likely to be exposed to many detrimental environmental factors such as poorer neighborhoods, schools, nutrition, and prenatal and postnatal health care. Mackintosh points out that for American Blacks infant mortality is about twice as high as for whites, and low birthweight is twice as prevalent. At the same time white mothers are twice as likely to breastfeed their infants, and breastfeeding is highly correlated with IQ for low birthweight infants. In this way a wide number of health related factors that influence IQ are unequally distributed between the two groups. Reichman estimates that no more than 3 to 4% of the black-white IQ gap can be explained by black-white disparities in low birth weight.\n\nThe Copenhagen consensus in 2004 stated that lack of both iodine and iron has been implicated in impaired brain development, and this can affect enormous numbers of people: it is estimated that one-third of the total global population are affected by iodine deficiency. In developing countries, it is estimated that 40% of children aged four and under suffer from anaemia because of insufficient iron in their diets.\n\nOther scholars have found that simply the standard of nutrition has a significant effect on population intelligence, and that the Flynn effect may be caused by increasing nutrition standards across the world. James Flynn has himself argued against this view.\n\nSome recent research has argued that the retardation caused in brain development by infectious diseases, many of which are more prevalent in non-White populations, may be an important factor in explaining the differences in IQ between different regions of the world. The findings of this research, showing the correlation between IQ, race and infectious diseases was also shown to apply to the IQ gap in the US, suggesting that this may be an important environmental factor.\n\nA 2013 meta-analysis by the World Health Organization found that, after controlling for maternal IQ, breastfeeding was associated with IQ gains of 2.19 points. The authors suggest that this relationship is causal but state that the practical significance of this gain is debatable; however, they highlight one study suggesting an association between breastfeeding and academic performance in Brazil, where \"breastfeeding duration does not present marked variability by socioeconomic position.\" Colen and Ramey (2014) similarly find that controlling for sibling comparisons within families, rather than between families, reduces the correlation between breastfeeding status and WISC IQ scores by nearly a third, but further find the relationship between breastfeeding duration and WISC IQ scores to be insignificant. They suggest that \"much of the beneficial long-term effects typically attributed to breastfeeding, per say, may primarily be due to selection pressures into infant feeding practices along key demographic characteristics such as race and socioeconomic status.\"\n\nSeveral studies have proposed that a large part of the gap can be attributed to differences in quality of education. Racial discrimination in education has been proposed as one possible cause of differences in educational quality between races. According to a paper by Hala Elhoweris, Kagendo Mutua, Negmeldin Alsheikh and Pauline Holloway, teachers' referral decisions for students to participate in gifted and talented educational programs were influenced in part by the students' ethnicity.\n\nThe Abecedarian Early Intervention Project, an intensive early childhood education project, was also able to bring about an average IQ gain of 4.4 points at age 21 in the black children who participated in it compared to controls. Arthur Jensen agreed that the Abecedarian project demonstrates that education can have a significant effect on IQ, but also said that no educational program thus far has been able to reduce the black-white IQ gap by more than a third, and that differences in education are thus unlikely to be its only cause.\n\nRushton and Jensen argue that long-term follow-up of the Head Start Program found large immediate gains for blacks and whites but that these were quickly lost for the blacks although some remained for whites. They argue that also other more intensive and prolonged educational interventions have not produced lasting effects on IQ or scholastic performance. Nisbett argues that they ignore studies such as which found that at the age 12, 87% of black infants exposed to an intervention had IQs in the normal range (above 85) compared to 56% of controls, and none of the intervention-exposed children were mildly retarded compared to 7% of controls. Other early intervention programs have shown IQ effects in the range of 4–5 points, which are sustained until at least age 8–15. Effects on academic achievement can also be substantial. Nisbett also argues that not only early age intervention can be effective, citing other successful intervention studies from infancy to college.\n\nA series of studies by Joseph Fagan and Cynthia Holland measured the effect of prior exposure to the kind of cognitive tasks posed in IQ tests on test performance. Assuming that the IQ gap was the result of lower exposure to tasks using the cognitive functions usually found in IQ tests among African American test takes, they prepared a group of African Americans in this type of tasks before taking an IQ test. The researchers found that there was no subsequent difference in performance between the African-Americans and White test takers. Daley and Onwuegbuzie conclude that Fagan and Holland demonstrate that \"differences in knowledge between Blacks and Whites for intelligence test items can be erased when equal opportunity is provided for exposure to the information to be tested\". A similar argument is made by David Marks who argues that IQ differences correlate well with differences in literacy suggesting that developing literacy skills through education causes an increase in IQ test performance.\n\nA 2003 study found that two variables — stereotype threat and the degree of educational attainment of children's fathers — partially explained the black-white gap in cognitive ability test scores, undermining the hereditarian view that they stemmed from immutable genetic factors.\n\nOngoing research aims to understand the contribution of genes to differences in intelligence. Currently there is no non-circumstantial evidence that the test score gap has a genetic component, although some researchers believe that the existing circumstantial evidence makes it plausible to believe that hard evidence for a genetic component will eventually appear. Growing evidence indicates that environmental factors, not genetic ones, are more important in explaining the racial IQ gap. Several lines of investigation have been followed in the attempt to ascertain whether there is a genetic component to the test score gap as well as its relative contribution to the magnitude of the gap.\n\nGeneticist Alan R. Templeton argues that the question about the possible genetic effects on the test score gap is muddled by the general focus on \"race\" rather than on populations defined by gene frequency or by geographical proximity, and by the general insistence on phrasing the question in terms of heritability. Templeton points out that racial groups neither represent sub-species nor distinct evolutionary lineages, and that therefore there is no basis for making claims about the general intelligence of races. From this point of view the search for possible genetic influences on the black-white test score gap is a priori flawed, because there is no genetic material shared by all Africans or by all Europeans. points out that by using genetic cluster analysis to correlate gene frequencies with continental populations it could possibly be the case that African populations had a higher frequency of certain genetic variants that contribute to an average lower intelligence. Such a hypothetical situation could hold without all Africans carrying the same genes or belonging to a single Evolutionary lineage. According to Mackintosh, a biological basis for the gap thus cannot be ruled out on a priori grounds.\n\nIntelligence is a polygenic trait. This means that intelligence is under the influence of several genes, possibly several thousand. The effect of most individual genetic variants on intelligence is thought to be very small, well below 1% of the variance in \"g\". Current studies using quantitative trait loci have yielded little success in the search for genes influencing intelligence. Robert Plomin is confident that QTLs responsible for the variation in IQ scores exist, but due to their small effect sizes, more powerful tools of analysis will be required to detect them. Others assert that no useful answers can be reasonably expected from such research before an understanding of the relation between DNA and human phenotypes emerges. Several candidate genes have been proposed to have a relationship with intelligence. However, a review of candidate genes for intelligence published in failed to find evidence of an association between these genes and general intelligence, stating \"there is still almost no replicated evidence concerning the individual genes, which have variants that contribute to intelligence differences\". In 2001, a review in the \"Journal of Black Psychology\" refuted eight major premises on which the hereditarian view regarding race and intelligence is based.\n\nA 2005 literature review article by Sternberg, Grigorenko and Kidd stated that no gene has been shown to be linked to intelligence, \"so attempts to provide a compelling genetic link of race to intelligence are not feasible at this time\". and concurred, both scholars noting that while several environmental factors have been shown to influence the IQ gap, the evidence for a genetic influence has been circumstantial, and according to Mackintosh negligible. Mackintosh however suggests that it may never become possible to account satisfyingly for the relative contributions of genetic and environmental factors. The 2012 review by concluded that \"Almost no genetic polymorphisms have been discovered that are consistently associated with variation in IQ in the normal range\". Hunt and several other researchers however maintain that genetic causes cannot be ruled out, and that new evidence may yet show a genetic contribution to the gap. Hunt concurs with Rushton and Jensen who considered the 100% environmental hypothesis to be impossible. Nonetheless, Nisbett and colleagues (2012) consider the entire IQ gap to be explained by the environmental factors that have thus far been demonstrated to influence it, and Mackintosh does not find this view to be unreasonable.\n\nTwin studies of intelligence have reported high heritability values. However, these studies are based on questionable assumptions. When used in the context of human behavior genetics, the term \"heritability\" is highly misleading, as it does not convey any information about the relative importance of genetic or environmental factors on the development of a given trait, nor does it convey the extent to which that trait is genetically determined. Arguments in support of a genetic explanation of racial differences in IQ are sometimes fallacious. For instance, hereditarians have sometimes cited the failure of known environmental factors to account for such differences, or the high heritability of intelligence within races, as evidence that racial differences in IQ are genetic.\n\nPsychometricians have found that intelligence is substantially heritable within populations, with 30–50% of variance in IQ scores in early childhood being attributable to genetic factors in analyzed US populations, increasing to 75–80% by late adolescence. In biology heritability is defined as the ratio of variation attributable to genetic differences in an observable trait to the trait's total observable variation. The heritability of a trait describes the proportion of variation in the trait that is attributable to genetic factors within a particular population. A heritability of 1 indicates that variation correlates fully with genetic variation and a heritability of 0 indicates that there is no correlation between the trait and genes at all. In psychological testing, heritability tends to be understood as the degree of correlation between the results of a test taker and those of their biological parents. However, since high heritability is simply a correlation between traits and genes, it does not describe the causes of heritability which in humans can be either genetic or environmental.\n\nTherefore, a high heritability measure does not imply that a trait is genetic or unchangeable, however, as environmental factors that affect all group members equally will not be measured by heritability and the heritability of a trait may also change over time in response to changes in the distribution of genes and environmental factors. High heritability also doesn't imply that all of the heritability is genetically determined, but can also be due to environmental differences that affect only a certain genetically defined group (indirect heritability). The figure to the left demonstrates how heritability works. In both gardens the difference between tall and short cornstalks is 100% heritable as cornstalks that are genetically disposed for growing tall will become taller than those without this disposition, but the difference in height between the cornstalks to the left and those on the right is 100% environmental as it is due to different nutrients being supplied to the two gardens. Hence the causes of differences within a group and between groups may not be the same, even when looking at traits that are highly heritable. In his criticism of \"the Bell Curve\", Noam Chomsky further illustrated this with the example of women wearing earrings:\n\nIn regards to the IQ gap the question becomes whether racial groups can be shown to be influenced by different environmental factors that may account for the observed differences between them. Jensen originally argued that given the high heritability of IQ the only way that the IQ gap could be explained as caused by the environment would be if it could be shown that all blacks were subject to a single \"x-factor\" which affected no white populations while affecting all black populations equally. Jensen considered the existence of such an x-factor to be extremely improbable, but Flynn's discovery of the Flynn effect showed that in spite of high heritability environmental factors could cause considerable disparities in IQ between generations of the same population, showing that the existence of such an x-factor was not only possible but real.\n\nJensen has also argued that heritability of traits rises with age as the genetic potential of individuals becomes expressed. He sees this as related to the fact that the IQ gap between white and black test takers has been shown to appear gradually, with the gap widening as cohorts reach adulthood. This he sees as a further argument in favor of Spearman's hypothesis (see section below).\n\nIn contrast, Dickens and Flynn argued that the conventional interpretation ignores the role of feedback between factors, such as those with a small initial IQ advantage, genetic or environmental, seeking out more stimulating environments which will gradually greatly increase their advantage, which, as one consequence in their alternative model, would mean that the \"heritability\" figure is only in part due to direct effects of genotype on IQ.\n\nToday researchers such as , and consider that rather than a single factor accounting for the entire gap, probably many different environmental factors differ systematically between the environments of White and Black people converge to create part of the gap and perhaps all of it. They argue that it does not make sense to talk about a single universal heritability figure for IQ, rather, they state, heritability of IQ varies between and within groups. They point specifically to studies showing a higher heritability of test scores in White and medium-high SES families, but considerably lower heritability for Black and low-SES families. This they interpret to mean that children who grow up with limited resources do not get to develop their full genetic potential.\n\nMultiple studies have been conducted over the past several decades to survey scientific estimates on the heritability of the IQ gap. A review by Snydermann and Rothman in 1988 found that 45% of the scientists they questioned believed the gap to be \"a product of genetic and environmental variation,\" 15% and 1% respectively \"entirely to environmental\" and \"genetic variation,\" while the remaining 38% either declined to answer or stated that the evidence was inconclusive. The heritability of intelligence was estimated on average to be 59.6% for white Americans and 57.0% for black Americans among those who answered that the evidence was sufficiently conclusive. The \"Wall Street Journal\" published an editorial by Linda Gottfredson in 1994, signed by 52 professors specializing in intelligence and allied fields, that estimated the heritability of individual variation to range between 40–80%, but also stating that \"there is no definitive answer\" to explain the racial gap. Social psychologist Donald T. Campbell criticized the report, arguing that it overstated the plausibility of genetic explanations and underestimated the extent of environmental differences between races. A stated that there is more plausible evidence for an environmental than for a genetic explanation, but that there was \"no adequate explanation\" for the black-white IQ gap. In a 2013 followup on Snyderman & Rothman, Rindermann et al. found the average and median estimates of the black-white IQ gap to be heritable by 47% and 50% respectively among surveyed scientists who believed that the available evidence allowed for a reasonable estimate. This survey however yielded a response rate of 18% (228 participants) compared to Snyderman & Rothman's 65% (661 participants).\n\nSpearman's hypothesis states that the magnitude of the black-white difference in tests of cognitive ability is entirely or mainly a function of the extent to which a test measures general mental ability, or \"g\". The hypothesis was first formalized by Arthur Jensen who devised the statistical Method of Correlated Vectors to test it. Jensen holds that if Spearman's hypothesis holds true then some cognitive tasks have a higher g-load than others, and that these tasks are exactly the tasks in which the gap between Black and White test takers are greatest. Jensen, and other psychometricians such as Rushton and Lynn, take this to show that the cause of \"g\" and the cause of the gap are the same—in their view genetic differences.\n\nJames argues that there is an inherent flaw in Jensen's argument that the correlation between g-loadings, test scores and heritability support a genetic cause of the gap. He points out that as the difficulty of a task increases a low performing group will naturally fall further behind, and heritability will therefore also naturally increase. The same holds for increases in performance which will first affect the least difficult tasks, but only gradually affect the most difficult ones. Flynn thus sees the correlation between in g-loading and the test score gap to offer no clue to the cause of the gap.\n\nA number of studies have been done on the effect of similar rearing conditions on children from different races. The hypothesis is that by investigating whether black children adopted into white families demonstrated gains in IQ test scores relative to black children reared in black families. Depending on whether their test scores are more similar to their biological or adoptive families, that could be interpreted as either supporting a genetic or an environmental hypothesis. The main point of critique in studies like these however is whether the environment of black children—even when raised in white families—is truly comparable to the environment of white children. Several reviews of the adoption study literature has pointed out that it is perhaps impossible to avoid confounding of biological and environmental factors in this type of studies. Given the differing heritability estimates in medium-high SES and low-SES families, argue that adoption studies on the whole tend to overstate the role of genetics because they represent a restricted set of environments, mostly in the medium-high SES range.\n\nThe Minnesota Transracial Adoption Study (1976) examined the IQ test scores of 122 adopted children and 143 nonadopted children reared by advantaged white families. The children were restudied ten years later. The study found higher IQ for whites compared to blacks, both at age 7 and age 17. cite the Minnesota study as providing support to a genetic explanation. Nonetheless, acknowledging the existence of confounding factors, Scarr and Weinberg the authors of the original study, did not themselves consider that it provided support for either the hereditarian or environmentalist view.\n\nThree other adoption studies found contrary evidence to the Minnesota study, lending support to a mostly environmental hypothesis: \n\nRushton and Jensen have argued that unlike the Minnesota Transracial Adoption Study, these studies did not retest the children post-adolescence when heritability of IQ would presumably be higher. however point out that the difference in heritability between ages 7 and 17 are quite small, and that consequently this is no reason to disregard Moore's findings.\n\nFrydman and Lynn (1989) showed a mean IQ of 119 for Korean infants adopted by Belgian families. After correcting for the Flynn effect, the IQ of the adopted Korean children was still 10 points higher than the indigenous Belgian children.\n\nReviewing the evidence from adoption studies Mackintosh considers the studies by Tizard and Eyferth to be inconclusive, and the Minnesota study to be consistent only with a partial genetic hypothesis. On the whole he finds that environmental and genetic variables remain confounded and considers evidence from adoption studies inconclusive on the whole, and fully compatible with a 100% environmental explanation.\n\nMost people have an ancestry from different geographic regions, particularly African Americans typically have ancestors from both Africa and Europe, with, on average, 20% of their genome inherited from European ancestors. If racial IQ gaps have a partially genetic basis, one might expect blacks with a higher degree of European ancestry to score higher on IQ tests than blacks with less European ancestry, because the genes inherited from European ancestors would likely include some genes with a positive effect on IQ. Geneticist Alan Templeton has argued that an experiment based on the Mendelian \"common garden\" design where specimens with different hybrid compositions are subjected to the same environmental influences, would be the only way to definitively show a causal relation between genes and IQ. Summarizing the findings of admixture studies, he concludes that it has shown no significant correlation between any cognitive and the degree of African or European ancestry.\n\nStudies have employed different ways of measuring or approximating relative degrees of ancestry from Africa and Europe. One set of studies have used skin color as a measure, and other studies have used blood groups. surveys the literature and argues that the blood groups studies may be seen as providing some support to the genetic hypothesis, even though the correlation between ancestry and IQ was quite low. He finds that studies by , Willerman, Naylor & Myrianthopoulos (1970) did not find a correlation between degree of African/European ancestry and IQ. The latter study did find a difference based on the race of the mother, with children of white mothers with black fathers scoring higher than children of black mothers and white fathers. Loehlin considers that such a finding is compatible with either a genetic or an environmental cause. All in all Loehlin finds admixture studies inconclusive and recommends more research.\n\nAnother study cited by , and by , was study which found that adopted mixed-race children's has test scores identical to children with two black parents—receiving no apparent \"benefit\" from their white ancestry. Rushton and Jensen find admixture studies to have provided overall support for a genetic explanation though this view is not shared by , , , , nor by .\n\nReviewing the evidence from admixture studies considers it to be inconclusive because of too many uncontrolled variables. quotes a statement by to the effect that admixture studies have not provided a shred of evidence in favor of a genetic basis for the gap.\n\nMental chronometry measures the elapsed time between the presentation of a sensory stimulus and the subsequent behavioral response by the participant. This reaction time (RT) is considered a measure of the speed and efficiency with which the brain processes information. Scores on most types of RT tasks tend to correlate with scores on standard IQ tests as well as with \"g\", and no relationship has been found between RT and any other psychometric factors independent of \"g\". The strength of the correlation with IQ varies from one RT test to another, but Hans Eysenck gives 0.40 as a typical correlation under favorable conditions. According to Jensen individual differences in RT have a substantial genetic component, and heritability is higher for performance on tests that correlate more strongly with IQ. Nisbett argues that some studies have found correlations closer to 0.2, and that the correlation is not always found.\n\nSeveral studies have found differences between races in average reaction times. These studies have generally found that reaction times among black, Asian and white children follow the same pattern as IQ scores. Black-white differences in reaction time, however, tend to be small (average effect size .18). have argued that reaction time is independent of culture and that the existence of race differences in average reaction time is evidence that the cause of racial IQ gaps is partially genetic instead of entirely cultural. Responding to this argument in \"Intelligence and How to Get It\", Nisbett has pointed to the study in which a group of Chinese Americans had longer reaction times than a group of European Americans, despite having higher IQs. Nisbett also mentions findings in and suggesting that movement time (the measure of how long it takes a person to move a finger after making the decision to do so) correlates with IQ just as strongly as reaction time, and that average movement time is faster for blacks than for whites. considers reaction time evidence unconvincing and points out that other cognitive tests that also correlate well with IQ show no disparity at all, for example the habituation/dishabituation test. And he points out that studies show that rhesus monkeys have shorter reaction times than American college students, suggesting that different reaction times may not tell us anything useful about intelligence.\n\nA number of studies have reported a moderate statistical correlation between differences in IQ and brain size between individuals in the same group. And some scholars have reported differences in average brain sizes between Africans, Europeans, and Asians. J. P. Rushton has argued that Africans on average have smaller brain cases and brains than Europeans, that Europeans have smaller brains than East Asians, and that this is evidence that the gap is biological in nature. Critics of Rushton have argued that Rushton's arguments rest on outdated data collected by unsound methods and should be considered invalid. Recent reviews by and consider that current data does show an average difference in brain size and head-circumference between American Blacks and Whites, but question whether this has any relevance for the IQ gap. Nisbett et al. argue that crude brain size is unlikely to be a good measure of IQ; for example, brain size also differs between men and women, but without well-documented differences in IQ. At the same time newborn Black children have the same average brain size as Whites, suggesting that the difference in average size could be accounted for by differences in postnatal environment. Several factors that reduce brain size have been demonstrated to disproportionately affect Black children.\n\nEarl Hunt states that brain size is found to have a correlation of about .35 with intelligence among whites and cites studies showing that genes may account for as much as 90% of individual variation in brain size. According to Hunt, race differences in average brain size could potentially be an important argument for a possible genetic contribution to racial IQ gaps. Nonetheless, Hunt notes that Rushton's head size data would account for a difference of .09 standard deviations between Black and White average test scores, less than a tenth of the 1.0 standard deviation gap in average scores that is observed. Wicherts, Borsboom, & Dolan (2010) argue that black-white differences in brain size are insufficient to explain 91% to 95% of the black-white IQ gap.\n\nArchaeological evidence does not support claims by Rushton and others that blacks' cognitive ability was inferior to whites' during prehistoric times as a result of evolution.\n\nThe 1996 report of the APA commented on the ethics of research on race and intelligence. as well as have also discussed different possible ethical guidelines. \"Nature\" in 2009 featured two editorials on the ethics of research in race and intelligence by Steven Rose (against) and Stephen J. Ceci and Wendy M. Williams (for).\n\nAccording to critics, research on group differences in IQ will reproduce the negative effects of social ideologies (such as Nazism or social Darwinism) that were justified in part on claimed hereditary racial differences. Steven Rose maintains that the history of eugenics makes this field of research difficult to reconcile with current ethical standards for science.\n\nLinda Gottfredson argues that suggestion of higher ethical standards for research into group differences in intelligence is a double standard applied in order to undermine disliked results. James R. Flynn has argued that had there been a ban on research on possibly poorly conceived ideas, much valuable research on intelligence testing (including his own discovery of the Flynn effect) would not have occurred.\n\nJensen and Rushton argued that the existence of biological group differences does not rule out, but raises questions about the worthiness of policies such as affirmative action or placing a premium on diversity. They also argued for the importance of teaching people not to overgeneralize or stereotype individuals based on average group differences, because of the significant overlap of people with varying intelligence between different races.\n\nThe environmentalist viewpoint argues for increased interventions in order to close the gaps. Nisbett argues that schools can be greatly improved and that many interventions at every age level are possible. Flynn, arguing for the importance of the black subculture, writes that \"America will have to address all the aspects of black experience that are disadvantageous, beginning with the regeneration of inner city neighbourhoods and their schools. A resident police office and teacher in every apartment block would be a good start.\" Researchers from both sides agree that interventions should be better researched.\n\nEspecially in developing nations, society has been urged to take on the prevention of cognitive impairment in children as of the highest priority. Possible preventable causes include malnutrition, infectious diseases such as meningitis, parasites, cerebral malaria, in utero drug and alcohol exposure, newborn asphyxia, low birth weight, head injuries, lead poisoning and endocrine disorders.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39091009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39091009", "title": "Roger Kibbe", "text": "Roger Kibbe\n\nRoger Reece Kibbe (born May 21, 1939) is an American serial killer known as the \"I-5 Strangler\". Kibbe found all but one of his victims on the freeways around Sacramento, California. On May 10, 1991, Kibbe was sentenced to 25 years to life imprisonment for the murder of Darcie Frackenpohl to serve his time at the Pleasant Valley State Prison. \n\nIn 2003 Kibbe accompanied prosecutors and detectives to a dry creek he remembered to try to find the body of Lou Ellen Burleigh, whom he had discarded in 1977. In 2007 a detective searched the area again. In 2009 Kibbe again returned to the site with detectives. Burleigh's body was not found and a Grand Jury was convened. \n\nAfter a plea bargain to avoid the death penalty, on November 5, 2009, Kibbe was sentenced to an additional six life sentences, this time for the murders of Lora Heedick, Barbara Ann Scott, Stephanie Brown, Charmaine Sabrah, Katherine Kelly Quinones, and Lou Ellen Burleigh. \n\nIn 2011, a detective returned to the Burleigh dump site on his own, found a bone in the creek, and DNA testing proved it to be Burleigh's. Burleigh had left her Walnut Creek, California home in 1977 for a job interview but never returned.\n\nKibbe kidnapped his victims, tied them up and silenced them with duct tape. He then proceeded to cut open their clothes in irregular shapes with scissors that had belonged to his mother. Then, he raped them and strangled them to death. Kibbe also cut off most of the hair of his victims to remove the duct tape before leaving the scene of the crime.\n\n\nKibbe's forensic evidence used in his conviction is reported on an episode of the series \"Forensic Files\" \"Knot for Everyone\", season 3: episode 2, aired: October 1998.\n\nMSNBC released the documentary \"Profiling Evil\" where forensic psychiatrist Park Dietz interviews Roger Kibbe in prison, aired: 18 November 2012. The interview was part of Kibbe's plea deal to avoid a death penalty.\n\nThe series \"On the Case with Paula Zahn\" dedicated an episode on Kibbe's crimes titled \"Deadly Offer\", 42 min, aired: 8 May 2016. Host, Zahn interviews family members of the victims, detectives, criminalist, the prosecutor and a forensic pathologist.\n\n"}
{"id": "37427671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37427671", "title": "Slovene minority in Italy", "text": "Slovene minority in Italy\n\nSlovene minority in Italy (, ), also known as Slovenes in Italy (, ) is the name given to Italian citizens who belong to the autochthonous Slovene ethnic and linguistic minority living in the Italian autonomous region of Friuli – Venezia Giulia. The vast majority of members of the Slovene ethnic minority live in the Provinces of Trieste, Gorizia, and Udine. Estimates of their number vary significantly; the official figures show 24.706 Slovenian speakers in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, as per the 1971 Census, but Slovenian estimates speak of 83,000 to 100,000 people.\n\nThe Slovene minority in Italy enjoys legal protection of its collective rights, guaranteed by the Italian constitution and specific legislation, as well as by international treaties (especially the London Memorandum of 1954), and bilateral agreements initially stipulated first between Italy and Yugoslavia (especially the Treaty of Osimo of 1975), and since 1991 between Italy and Slovenia.\n\nSince 1945, the Slovenes in Italy have enjoyed partial cultural autonomy, including an education system in Slovene. They have a wide net of cultural and civic associations. The Slovene language is co-official in many of the municipalities with presence of the Slovene minority, and visual bilingualism is applied in most of the non-urban settlements with traditional Slovene presence. However, the implementation of these rights largely depends on the local administrations; thus, the situation varies significantly from area to area. \nBoth Italy and Slovenia promote Slovene culture in Friuli–Venezia Giulia through subsidies for Slovene associations and organizations.\n\nThe denomination “Slovenes in Italy” is preferred to “Italian Slovenes” or “Slovene Italians” due to historical reasons and reasons of identity. The Slovenes of the Julian March or Venezia Giulia (the present-day Provinces of Trieste and Gorizia) became Italian citizens only with the Treaty of Rapallo of 1920. In the late 1920s and 1930s, many of them supported underground anti-Fascist groups, such as TIGR. During World War II large portions of the population took part in the Yugoslav partisan movement, and between 1945 and 1947, many of them actively supported the annexation to Yugoslavia. In the aftermath of World War II, their integration in the Italian state was slow and difficult: much of the anti-Slav Fascist legislation (for example, the forced Italianization of family names) remained valid, and in the context of the Cold War, the Slovene minority was regarded by many political parties, as well as by segments of State institutions, as a potential Yugoslav Trojan Horse.\n\nAfter 1947, the term \"zamejski Slovenci\" (literally meaning “Slovenes beyond the Border”) started to be used by the Yugoslav press and institutions, especially in Slovenia. Initially, this term referred to all Slovene minorities residing outside Yugoslavia (besides the Slovenes in Italy, the Carinthian Slovenes and Hungarian Slovenes). This is still the way how the term is used by the institutions of the Slovenian State. However, since alternative terms exist for Slovene minorities in Austria and Hungary, the term \"zamejski Slovenci\" tends to be used mostly for the Slovenes in Italy. This term is often used also by the Slovenes in Italy themselves, and is considered a neutral and politically correct term.\n\nThe Slovene minority in Italy lives in the autonomous region Friuli – Venezia Giulia, more precisely, in the Provinces of Trieste, Gorizia and Udine. Slovene immigrants living in other parts of Italy are not considered as members of the minority.\nSlovenes live along the border with Slovenia. Their traditional area of settlement includes:\n\nHistorically, the Slovene minority has been present in 32 municipalities in the region: 6 in the Province of Trieste, 6 in the Province of Gorizia and 20 in the Province of Udine. In 16 of them, they are the majority of the population. In addition to these, since the early 1920s, the Slovenes have been settling in the industrial areas of the lower Isonzo valley, in the lowland areas around Monfalcone, known as Bisiacaria, and in larger Friulian towns (such as Udine, Pordenone, Conegliano and others). The former are nowadays considered members of the Slovene autochthonous minority and thus enjoy certain collective minority rights, while the latter don’t. \nMunicipalities with significant presence of the autochthonous Slovene minority are as following.\n\nIn the Province of Trieste:\n\nIn the Province of Gorizia:\n\nIn the Province of Udine:\n\nThe Slovene minority in Italy is highly differentiated along geographic, cultural-historical, identity and linguistic lines. \nIn cultural-historical terms, three separate groups can be differentiated: the Slovenes of the Julian March (the Provinces of Trieste and Gorizia), the Slovenes from Venetian Slovenia, and the Slovenes from the Canale Valley (in the Province of Udine). Each of these three groups has had a significantly different history, which resulted in different identities. The Slovenes in the Resia Valley are sometimes considered as a fourth group, due to their specific linguistic features and separate identity; nevertheless, they share a common history, as well as similar cultural and linguistic features with the Slovenes from Venetian Slovenia.\n\nThe Slovenes living in the Provinces of Trieste and Gorizia shared, until 1918, the same history with most other Slovenes: by the end of the 15th century, they were included in the Habsburg Monarchy, and in the 19th Century they actively participated in the Slovene national revival. Between 1849 and 1918, they were part of the Austrian administrative region known as Austrian Littoral, and were known as Littoral Slovenes (\"Primorski Slovenci\"). After 1918, they came under Italian administration and were included in the region known as the Julian March (\"Venezia Giulia\"). They shared the same fate as other Slovenes in the Julian March: they were subjected to Fascist Italianization, which gave rise to pro-Yugoslav irredentism. In 1947, after World War II, a new border between Italy and Yugoslavia was drawn, dividing the Julian March between the two states. The border was artificial, insofar as it was not based on any significant historical or geographical divides. In many cases, the border separated families and ran through fields and estates. All these reasons contributed to the strong connection between the Slovenes who remained in Italy with their counterparts that were annexed to Yugoslavia.\n\nUntil the 1950s and 1960s, the Slovenes from the Provinces of Gorizia and Trieste frequently referred to themselves as Littoral Slovenes. Since the 1960s, this identification with the Slovenian Littoral has faded, but it can still be traced in the names of certain institutions, most notably in the title of the Slovene daily newspaper of Trieste, called \"Primorski dnevnik\" which means “The Littoral Daily”. Between the 1940s and 1960s, the Slovenes from the Provinces of Gorizia and Trieste established the infrastructure of minority organizations that now serve the needs of the whole minority. They have enjoyed a certain degree of cultural autonomy (the most important feature being the education system in Slovene) since 1945, and they have maintained strong relations with Slovenia, especially with the neighboring border areas of the Slovenian Littoral.\nIn 1986 the Slovenian community founded the football club Kras Repen, which locates its fan base among the Slovenes in Italy.\n\nVenetian Slovenia (, ) is the traditional name for Slovene-speaking areas in the valleys of upper Natisone and Torre rivers in eastern Friuli (currently in the Province of Udine). The history of these areas has been strongly linked to the history of Friuli. Unlike most other ethnic Slovene territories (including the areas of Gorizia and Trieste), this region was part of the Venetian Republic for around 350 years (hence the name of the region). During that period, they enjoyed a large degree of autonomy.\n\nThe Slovenes in this area were annexed to Italy together with the rest of the Venetia region in 1866, that is, half a century before the Slovenes of Gorizia and Trieste, who remained under Austrian rule until after World War I. \n\nFor long, the identity of the local Slovenes was mostly a linguistic and, to an extent, an ethnic one, but not a national one. The Slovenes of these areas lacked any form of collective minority or linguistic rights until the year 2000, when the Law for the Defense of the Slovene-Speaking Minority was passed by the Italian Parliament.\n\nAround 3,000 Slovenes live in the Canale Valley in the north-easternmost part of the Province of Udine. The valley is currently divided among three municipalities: Tarvisio (\"Trbiž\"), Malborghetto Valbruna (\"Naborjet - Ovčja vas\"), and Pontebba (\"Tablja\"). Most of the local Slovenes live in the first two, representing around half of the population in Malborghetto Valbruna and a lower percentage in Tarvisio. \n\nUntil 1918, the Canale Valley (\"Kanalska dolina\") was part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Since the Middle Ages, it was a part of the Duchy of Carinthia. The local Slovene speakers shared the same history, traditions and linguistic features with other Carinthian Slovenes. According to the last Austrian census of 1910, the valley had around 9,000 inhabitants, among whom around a third were Slovene speakers, with the remainder German speakers. In 1918, after the end of World War I, the valley was occupied by the Italian Army, and in 1919 it was officially annexed to Italy. In the 1920s and 1930s, many Italians were settled in this area, which bordered both Austria and Yugoslavia. In 1939, the South Tyrol Option Agreement between Italy and Nazi Germany was also applied to ethnic Germans in the area; as a conqequence, most of the German-speaking population was resettled to neighboring Carinthia. New settlers from other parts of Italy gradually took their place, which significantly altered the ethnic composition of the valley.\n\nNowadays, Slovene is still spoken in several villages in the valley, especially Valbruna (\"Ovčja vas\"), Camporosso in Valcanale (\"Žabnice\"), Ugovizza (\"Ukve\"), and San Leopoldo (\"Lipalja vas\"). There has been a revival of Slovene language in these villages after 1990, with a focus on the younger generations.\n\nThe inhabitants of the Resia Valley in north-western Friuli speak a specific dialect of Slovene, known as Resian. Due to its specific phonetic features and archaic grammar, Resian is not mutually intelligible with standard Slovene and with most other Slovene dialects. Historically and culturally (as well as linguistically), Resia could be considered a part of Venetian Slovenia. According to Italian and regional legislation, Resians are considered as part of the Slovene minority in Italy; however, there are strong local movements that oppose identification with Slovenes and Slovene language, and defend a separate Resian identity.\n\nNotable Slovenes, who were either born in what is today Italy, or who spent a considerable part of their lives in these area, include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBesides members of the Slovene ethnic minority, many notable Italians have Slovene family background. Italian naturalized citizens of Slovenian background are also usually not considered to be part of the Slovene autochthonous minority, unless they reside in the areas of traditional Slovene settlement and partake in the community life of the minority.\n\nFamous Italians of Slovene descent include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33424169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33424169", "title": "Sole custody", "text": "Sole custody\n\nSole custody arrangements have been generally considered a traditional form of custody for many in the past; however, there has been a trend since the 1980s towards the notion that joint custody arrangements are more favorable than sole custody arrangements. Sole custody consists of an arrangement whereby only one parent has physical and legal custody of a child.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006042", "title": "Stock Generation", "text": "Stock Generation\n\nStock Generation was a website that ran from 1998 to early 2000 and is now part of Internet lore as the longest-running, most infamous Ponzi scheme in the history of the Internet. Stock Generation allowed people to trade \"virtual companies\" using real money and promised enormous returns on investment.\n\nThe website was run from an island in the Caribbean, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was unable to cite Stock Generation's founders and owners (members of the Russian conglomerate MMM) for securities violations. In late 1999, participants began to experience difficulties in redeeming their virtual shares. Finally, in 2000, the market \"crashed\". On March 20, 2000, SG unilaterally suspended all pending requests to withdraw funds and sharply reduced participants' account balances in all companies except the privileged company. (Applying \"Rule 13\" to all participants' accounts.) Two weeks later, SG peremptorily announced a reverse stock split for its highest-yield company, applying \"Rule 18\", which caused the share prices to plummet to less than 1/10,000 of their previous values, while other shares (including those that were \"guaranteed\" not to decrease in value) were devalued by 50% to 95%. At about the same time, SG stopped responding to participant requests for the return of funds, yet continued to solicit new participants through its website.\n\nThe SEC then sued in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging that the \"virtual stock exchange\" was in effect a Ponzi scheme. The court ruled in favor of Stock Generation, stating that the site adequately described the market as \"a game\" not an investment vehicle. The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit later reversed the District Court, stating that \"the opportunity to invest in the shares of the privileged company, described on SG's website, constituted an invitation to enter into an investment contract within the jurisdictional reach of the federal securities laws.\" The game was shut down around June 1, 2000.\n\nStockGeneration website traded shares of 11 \"virtual\" companies. Each of those companies had its name and logo, but they were most often referred to by the number under which they were listed.\n\nCompanies 1 to 8 were traded for purely \"gambling\" purposes, as their shares could go up and down randomly. Having those 8 companies \"trading\" on their website, allowed StockGeneration to claim its enterprise as online gambling venture, rather than an actual stock market or any other investment-related business to which SEC rules would apply.\n\nCompany 9 was the \"privileged\" company, with its shares \"guaranteed\" never to decrease in value. Promised return was originally 10% a month (215% annually,) but was later reduced to 7% a month or 125% annually. In early April 2000, Stock Generation, despite all previous guarantees, devalued its privileged company shares to 5% of their previous value.\n\nCompanies 10 and 11 promised monthly returns of 50% and 100% (later 40% and 70%) respectively. At the same time, share prices could plummet 50% for company 10 and 100% (e.g. all the way down to 0) for company 11. That caveat (known as Rule 18) was another way for StockGeneration to justify their claims that this was a gambling website, rather than an investment vehicle.\n\nStock Generation was reluctant to use Rule 18 throughout most of the time the game was active. Instead they chose to apply another rule (known as Rule 13) which permitted StockGeneration to reduce individual account balances by recalculating them as if all the funds had been originally invested in the \"privileged\" company 9. So, a user that chose to invest his $50 sign-up bonus in the company 11 shares, kept the funds there for a year and then sought to withdraw all at once, could see his balance going down from $204,800 (100% monthly rate, compounded twice a week) to $157 (10% monthly rate compounded twice a week) and his transaction history would state that he had invested all those funds in the company 9 shares rather than in the company 11.\n\nRule 13 allowed StockGeneration to avoid massive 5- or 6- figure withdrawals, thus allowing the system to last over 2 years, with its share prices increasing over 10,000-fold. (As opposed to StockGeneration predecessor, the MMM which only lasted about 6 months, with its stock price increasing \"only\" 127-fold.) Judging from the complaints on the SG bulletin board, application of rule 13 had become widespread by early 2000, as demands for withdrawals increased. On March 20, 2000, Rule 13 was applied to every account.\n\nRule 18 was applied about two weeks later, for the first time since the game was launched. The value of the company 10 share was cut in half. Company 11 shares underwent a 1-for-10,000 reverse split, with the actual share price plummeting to less than 1/100,000th of its value (from over $1 per share to $0.10 per \"new\" share, worth 10,000 old ones). On the same day, Stock Generation reduced the price of the company 9 shares from $16.90 to $0.84 - in clear violation of their own rules as those shares were guaranteed never to decrease in value.\n\nStock Generation continued to operate for several weeks after that, offering returns of up to 150% a month, but further legal troubles led to their website being halted by June 1, 2000.\n\nThe description below is a quotation of the public information from the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit\n\n\"StockGeneration\" website offering on-line denizens an opportunity to purchase shares in eleven different \"virtual companies\" listed on the website's \"virtual stock exchange.\" SG arbitrarily set the purchase and sale prices of each of these imaginary companies in biweekly \"rounds,\" and guaranteed that investors could buy or sell any quantity of shares at posted prices. SG placed no upper limit on the amount of funds that an investor could squirrel away in its virtual offerings.\n\nThe SEC's complaint focused on shares in a particular virtual enterprise referred to by SG as the \"privileged company\". SG advised potential purchasers to pay \"particular attention\" to shares in the privileged company and boasted that investing in those shares was a \"game without any risk.\" To this end, its website announced that the privileged company's shares would unfailingly appreciate, boldly proclaiming that \"[t]he share price of [the privileged company] is supported by the owners of SG, this is why its value constantly rises; on average at a rate of 10% monthly (this is approximately 215% annually).\" To add plausibility to this representation and to allay anxiety about future pricing, SG published prices of the privileged company's shares one month in advance.\n\nWhile SG conceded that a decline in the share price was theoretically possible, it assured prospective participants that \"under the rules governing the fall in prices, [the share price for the privileged company] cannot fall by more than 5% in a round.\" To bolster this claim, it vouchsafed that shares in the privileged company were supported by several distinct revenue streams. According to SG's representations, capital inflow from new participants provided liquidity for existing participants who might choose to sell their virtual shareholdings. As a backstop, SG pledged to allocate an indeterminate portion of the profits derived from its website operations to a special reserve fund designed to maintain the price of the privileged company's shares. SG asserted that these profits emanated from four sources: (1) the collection of a 1.5% commission on each transaction conducted on its virtual stock exchange; (2) the bid-ask spread on the virtual shares; (3) the \"skillful manipulation\" of the share prices of eight particular imaginary companies, not including the privileged company, listed on the virtual stock exchange; and (4) SG's right to sell shares of three other virtual companies (including the privileged company). As a further hedge against adversity, SG alluded to the availability of auxiliary stabilization funds which could be tapped to ensure the continued operation of its virtual stock exchange.\n\nSG's website contained lists of purported \"big winners,\" an Internet bulletin board featuring testimonials from supposedly satisfied participants, and descriptions of incentive programs that held out the prospect of rewards for such activities as the referral of new participants (e.g., SG's representation that it would pay \"20, 25 or 30% of the referred player's highest of the first three payments\") and the establishment of affiliate websites.\n\nAccording to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the 1st Circuit, 800 United States domiciliaries, paying real cash, purchased virtual shares in the virtual companies listed on the defendants' virtual stock exchange. SEC v. SG, Ltd et al., 265 F.3d 42 (1st Circuit 2001)\n"}
{"id": "12979305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12979305", "title": "Tamil Malaysians", "text": "Tamil Malaysians\n\nTamil Malaysians, also known as Malaysian Tamils, are people of full or partial Tamil descent (from paternal descent) who were born in or immigrated to Malaysia from Tamil Nadu in South East India and the Tamil regions of northern Sri Lanka that is being presently administered the government of Sri Lanka. They make up over 90% of the Malaysian Indian populations in Malaysia. The bulk of Tamil Malaysian migration began during the British Raj, when Britain facilitated the migration of Indian workers to work in plantations. There are also, however, some established Tamil communities spanning a millennium.\n\nRelations between Tamils and Malaysia have existed for more than 2000 years. The ancient Tamil poetic work Paṭṭiṉappālai refers to the territory of modern Malaysia as \"Kaalagam\" (Tamil: காழகம்).\n\nTamil literature from the 10th and 11th centuries refers to the modern Malaysian state of Kedah as \"Kadaram\" (Tamil: கடாரம்)\n\nPrior to British colonization, Tamils had been conspicuous in the archipelago much earlier, especially since the period of the powerful South Indian kingdom of the Cholas in the 11th century. The Pallava dynasty of Tamil Nadu spread Tamil culture and the Tamil script to Malaysia. The Tamil emperor Rajendra Chola I of the Chola dynasty invaded Malaysia in the 11th century.\n\nThe Malay Peninsula had a strong Tamil culture in the 11th century, and Tamil merchant guilds were established in several locations. By that time, Tamils were among the important trading peoples of maritime Asia. Although the bulk of these immigrants to South East Asia had assimilated with the majority Malay ethnic group, some communities such as the Malacca Chittys are remnants of the earlier migration history.\n\nDuring the British colonial era, Britain facilitated the migration of Indian workers to work in plantations. The overwhelming majority of migrants from India were ethnic Tamil and from the Madras Presidency of the British Empire.\n\nThe Sri Lankan Tamils, also known locally as Ceylonese Tamils, were employed principally in the civil and professional services.\n\nTamil Indian freedom fighters Maruthu Pandiyar relatives and 72 soldiers were deported to Penang in the year 1802 by the Madras Presidency Government (British India Government). \n\nDuring the WWII Japanese army used more than 120,000 Tamils in the construction of 415 KM railway between Siam and Burma to transport them army supplies. During this project half of them (around 60,000) perished. \n\nThe recent research reveals that close to 150,000 Tamils perished during the project. The fell victim to snakes and insects, cholera, malaria and Beriberi. Some of them committed suicide, unable to bear the burden and the Japanese torture. \nTamil is an educational language in Malaysia, with more than 500 Tamil medium schools. According to Harold Schiffman, an American researcher into Malaysian Tamils, compared to Singapore, language maintenance is favorable in Malaysia. However, he notes some Tamils are shifting to English and Malay. Although most Tamil students still go to publicly funded schools that teach primary subjects in Tamil language there are moves to shift to Malay language. Tamil groups have seriously objected to this policy.\n\nMalaysian Tamils have had an opportunity to integrate with the expanding economy of Malaysia since 1970 under the New Economic Policy (NEP). Although the bulk of them still remain as workers in the plantation sector in rubber and palm oil estates at those times very many have moved out as blue collar and white collar workers in the expanding industrial sector. They are also found in civil service, professional sector, media and finance. One of Malaysia's wealthiest men Ananda Krishnan is a Malaysian Tamil origin. Overall it is one of the dynamic communities compared to other Indian diaspora groups such as in Fiji, Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nThe Malaysian political process is based on a cooperative political alliance of three major political parties, each representing an ethnic community. Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC) represents the interests of the Malaysian Indian community at the federal level. Due to overwhelming natural presence, Malaysian Tamils have come to dominate the MIC since its inception. Samy Vellu, who is the longest serving leader of a mainstream Malaysian political party, having been MIC president since October 12, 1979 is a Malaysian Tamil, as are many of the office bearers of the party.\nIn recent times the underclass of the Indian community have been galvanized by the Hindu Rights Action Force (HINDRAF) to fight for their rights. HINDRAF was classified as an illegal organization on 15 October 2008 and most of its top leaders have been detained under the Internal Security Act (ISA). In July 2018 Malaysian police launched a probe into P. Ramasamy's, deputy chief minister of Penang, alleged ties to LTTE.\n\nThis is a list of notable Tamil Malaysian people. Entries on this list have a linked current article which verifies that they define themselves as Tamil Malaysia, whose ethnic origins lie in Tamil Nadu or Sri Lanka (Ceylon).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32198909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32198909", "title": "Tanguy Ngombo", "text": "Tanguy Ngombo\n\nTanguy Alban Harrys Ngombo, often incorrectly written as Targuy Ngombo (born July 18, 1989 <nowiki>[</nowiki>disputed<nowiki>]</nowiki>), is a Congolese-born Qatari professional basketball player who plays for Al Rayyan of the Qatari Basketball League. He has represented the Qatari national team in international competition. He was drafted by the Dallas Mavericks with the 57th pick in the 2011 NBA Draft. His draft rights were subsequently traded to the Portland Trail Blazers and then to the Minnesota Timberwolves. He is the first Qatari national basketball player to be selected in the NBA Draft.\n\nNgombo has played in Qatar since 2006 after playing for the Inter Club Brazzaville in his home nation of the Congo. In 2011, he helped Al Rayyan win the Qatar Basketball League. He led his team in scoring and rebounds, averaging 20.7 points and 8.9 rebounds per game. He then helped Al-Rayyan finish third in the FIBA Asia Champions Cup while averaging 16.3 points per game.\n\nNgombo has represented the Qatari national team since 2010. He played in the 2010 FIBA Asia Stanković Cup, helping Qatar win the bronze medal. He played in all 7 games and led the team in scoring in every game with an average of 30.0 points per game. He then played for Qatar in the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, China. He played in all 8 games, averaging 19.6 points per game as Qatar finished in 5th place.\n\nOn June 23, 2011, he was drafted by the Dallas Mavericks with the 57th pick in the second round of the 2011 NBA Draft. His draft rights were immediately traded to the Portland Trail Blazers as part of a three-team trade with the Denver Nuggets. The Blazers then traded his rights to the Minnesota Timberwolves in exchange for a future second-round pick. His rights were ultimately removed by Minnesota a month after general manager David Kahn was fired and replaced by Flip Saunders.\n\nIn 2005, Ngombo, who was still playing with Congolese team Inter Club Brazzaville, was listed as being born on July 18, 1984 in the 2005 FIBA Africa Clubs Champions Cup. A few years later, he was listed as being born in 1989 by FIBA Asia in the 2010 FIBA Asia Champions Cup, the 2010 FIBA Asia Stanković Cup and the 2010 Asian Games. However, in 2011, FIBA published a piece of contradictory information by listing 1984 as Ngombo's birth year on the Qatar roster for the 2011 FIBA Asia Championship.\n\nAt the 2011 NBA Draft, he was selected as Targuy Ngombo, who was a soon-to-be 22 year old player born in 1989. After the draft, reports surfaced claiming that Ngombo lied about his name and his birth date and that he was actually born in 1984, which would have made him ineligible for the draft. The NBA rules state that an international player who is over the age of 22 is not eligible for the draft and must be signed as a free agent. Additionally, the use of the name Targuy was a misspelling; he was often listed under that name in several FIBA competitions. His trade to the Timberwolves, which was first reported on the night of the draft, were reportedly being held up for several days because of the age discrepancy. Four days after the draft, the Blazers announced that they had finalized the trade of Ngombo to the Timberwolves, which implies that the NBA approved Ngombo's eligibility for the draft and the subsequent trades.\n\n"}
{"id": "43398998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43398998", "title": "Terekeme people", "text": "Terekeme people\n\nThe Terekeme people () are an ethnic group of Azerbaijanis who live in Dagestan and in some southern regions of Azerbaijan as well as Turkey. The population is mainly engaged in cattle breeding and is most often seen as nomads.\n\nThe Terekemes are Shiite and Sunni Muslims and speak the Terekeme dialect of Azerbaijani language.\n\n"}
{"id": "31137658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31137658", "title": "The Bohemian Girl (1922 film)", "text": "The Bohemian Girl (1922 film)\n\nThe Bohemian Girl is a 1922 British romance film directed by Harley Knoles and starring Gladys Cooper, Ivor Novello and C. Aubrey Smith. It was inspired by the opera \"The Bohemian Girl\" by Michael William Balfe and Alfred Bunn which was in turn based on a novel by Cervantes. Originally released at 70 minutes, the surviving print is missing the first two reels and small portion of the last, timing at 46 minutes.\n\nArline is the little daughter of Count Arnheim, governor of an Austrian province who lives in feudal splendor near a forest where a Gypsy Queen and her tribe encamp, with her lieutenant, Devilshoof. He comes by chance upon Thaddeus, a young Polish refugee pursued by Austrian soldiers. Devilshoof protects the youth and offers him the concealment of gypsy garb. Arline escapes from the castle and is saved from a bear by Thaddeus, who with Devilshoof returns her to her father. It is in the midst of a banquet, that Thaddeus, a Pole, refuses to drink a toast to the Austrian emperor. Thaddeus is ejected in disgrace and Devilshoof vows to be revenged. He returns and, when the chance comes, carries Arline away. Twelve years of wandering finds Thaddeus part of the gypsy caravan and Arline grown to beautiful womanhood. Their love is discovered by the Gypsy Queen and because of her desire to wed Thaddeus she swears to accomplish the downfall of Arline. Count Florestein, a friend of Arline's father, is robbed of a medallion by the gypsies, who yield it to their Queen. This jewel the Queen gives to Arline when the girl sets out for a fair where she tells fortunes. Among her patrons is Florestein, who recognizes his medallion and orders the arrest of Arline. She is taken to the castle for trial, where, her own father is her judge. Count Arnheim is moved to gentleness he cannot understand and when the gypsy girl tells him her name he tremblingly summons the old nurse, who instantly recognizes her lost darling.\n\n"}
{"id": "18207983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18207983", "title": "Timeline of young people's rights in the United Kingdom", "text": "Timeline of young people's rights in the United Kingdom\n\nThe timeline of children's rights in the United Kingdom includes a variety of events that are both political and grassroots in nature.\n\nThe UK government maintains a position that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) is not legally enforceable and is hence 'aspirational' only, although a 2003 ECHR ruling states that, \"The human rights of children and the standards to which all governments must aspire in realising these rights for all children are set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child.\" Eighteen years after ratification, the four Children's Commissioners in the UK (including those for the three devolved administrations) have united in calling for adoption of the Convention into domestic legislation, making children's rights recognised and legally binding.\n\nOpponents of children's rights often raise the objection that rights must entail responsibilities. The children's rights movement asserts rather that children have rights which adults, states and the government have a responsibility to uphold. Overall, a 2008 report stated that there had been no improvement in children's rights in the UK since 2002. Warning that there is a \"widely held fear of children and young people\" in the UK, the report says: \"The incessant portrayal of children as thugs and yobs\" not only reinforces the fears of the public but also influences policy and legislation.\" The report does not address the question of the degree to which the fear of uncontrolled children in the UK is justified.\n\nThe UNCRC defines children, for the purposes of the Convention, as persons under the age 18, unless domestic legislation provides otherwise. In that spirit, this timeline includes as children all those below the UK age of majority, which was 21 until 1970 when it was reduced to 18. Although the Crown Dependencies of the Isle of Man, Guernsey and Jersey are not constitutionally part of the UK, the British government is responsible for their external affairs and therefore for their international treaty obligations, so this timeline includes references to matters in those dependencies.\n\n\nGraham, Dr. Olga. (2009) Autism: The Teratogen Fallout. Toronto: Free Press 777. Rights are needed for children with autism regarding training and educating using visual methodology, proper diagnosis and treatment etc. Rights of children to a non-hazardous environment has become urgent. http://autismfallout.com\n\n"}
{"id": "4904630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4904630", "title": "Toposa people", "text": "Toposa people\n\nThe Toposa are an ethnic group in South Sudan, living in the Greater Kapoeta region of the erstwhile Eastern Equatoria state.\nThey have traditionally lived by herding cattle, sheep and goats, and in the past were involved in the ivory trade. They have a tradition of constant low-level warfare, usually cattle raids, against their neighbors.\n\nDuring the Second Sudanese Civil War (1983–2005) the Toposa helped the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) at times, and at other times helped the Government of Sudan. After the war, sporadic clashes with neighboring tribes continued. The Toposa way of life is slowly being modernized and traditional social organization is eroding.\n\nThe Toposa people live in Greater Kapoeta, beside the Singaita and Lokalyen rivers, and have a ritual center at Loyooro River. For seasonal grazing they migrate to Moruangipi and sometimes east into the Ilemi Triangle.\nToposa people also live in the southeast of Jonglei State.\nTheir main settlements include Kapoeta, Riwoto and Narus.\nThe land is semi-arid and rugged, with hills and ridges separated by shallow plains and seasonal streams. \nVegetation is limited to shrubs and short grass.\n\nThe Toposa mainly rely on cattle, sheep and goats, from which they obtain milk, blood, meat and leather.\nDuring the wet season the animals graze near the villages. When the rains end, the men take the herds to dry season pasturage then slowly bring them back, grazing along the way, to arrive in the village when the next rainy season starts. Some areas of good pasturage cannot be used because of lack of drinking water.\n\nThe women also engage in limited agriculture in the river valleys. The main crop is sorghum, grown on fertile clay soils. Depending on conditions there may be severe shortages or large surpluses. The Toposa country has low, unpredictable rainfall. The streams are torrential, flowing only in the rainy season. \n\nThe Toposa language is a Nilotic language. \nIt belongs to the Turkana group, which also includes Karamojong of Uganda, Nyangatom of Ethiopia and Turkana of Kenya.\nThe Turkana and Toposa languages are so close that they are mutually intelligible.\nOther names for the Toposa language are Akara, Kare, Kumi, Taposa and Topotha.\n\nThe Toposa economy and social life revolves around herding livestock, including cattle, camels, donkeys, goats and sheep. The Toposa also pan for gold and other precious minerals in the stream beds.\nBoys are first given care of goats and sheep, then graduate to looking after cattle when they come of age.\nThey may travel considerable distances seeking water and pasturage.\nPossession of cattle, along with possession of a loaded gun, are the main measures of status and wealth. Cattle are central to Toposa culture.\nThe Toposa have always competed for water and pasturage with their neighbors, and have always engaged in cattle rustling.\nThe traditional Toposa weapon was a long throwing spear, used in raids in conjunction with a shield. The attacker would run forward zigzagging to dodge missiles, hurl his spear and then retreat, ready to ambush a pursuing enemy.\n\nThe Toposa share the habit of constant low-level warfare, mainly to capture cattle, with their neighbors. According to P.H. Gulliver, writing in 1952, \"Turkana made war on all their neighbours with the exception of the Jie, with whom they occasionally allied themselves against the Karamajong and the Dodoth. Karamajong similarly made war on all their neighbors with the exception of the Dudoth, with whom they occasionally allied themselves against the Jie. Jie claim friendship with the Toposa, but since they have no common boundaries this would have been of little importance. Toposa and Donyiro did not fight each other, and are known to have formed an alliance against the Turkana. Toposa and Jiye were enemies\".\n\nWomen are expected to remain at home farming, cooking, raising children and caring for the elderly.\nThis division of labour can be inefficient. When an NGO introduced ox cultivation, at first they decided it would be easier to have men undertake the ploughing, although cultivation was women's work, than to have women intrude into the men's world of animal husbandry. Later they decided that women should be allowed to plough, but councils of elders rejected the notion. However, Toposa elders have limited power and the NGO went ahead and trained some women in ox ploughing, mostly widows and orphans. The experiment ended in 1985 when rebel forces arrived in the area, a disaster the elders naturally attributed to letting women manage cattle.\nThere is no clear political organization among the Toposa, although respect is paid to elders, chiefs and wise men.\nMost decisions about the clan or community are made in meetings attended only by the men, traditionally held in the dark hours before the dawn.\nMatters of war and peace are decided by the sections councils of the elders, and the elders have sacral power over rain and drought.\nCaptain King, a soldier of the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium who conquered the Toposa and ruled them for sixteen years, wrote: \"There seems no doubt that prior to the advent of the Abyssinians even the idea of 'the Chief' was entirely unknown to the Topotha; the affairs of section and nation were regulated by the leaders of the ruling class, next but one above the warrior class... Gifted individuals such as Tuliabong or Lotukol, himself an elder, might by their force of character or prowess come to exercise unusual sway; but this was purely personal and there was no concept of it passing on his death to his son\".\n\nThe Toposa believe in a supreme being and in ancestral spirits, who may assist in overcoming problems such as drought or epidemics of disease among their herds.\nThey believe that men originally lived with \"Nakwuge\" in the sky, but many slid down a rope to earth. The rope then broke, separating them from heaven.\nAs of 2000, perhaps 5% of the population could read.\nThe Toposa culture is orally transmitted through songs, dance, music, poems and folklore.\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Torit has been actively proselytizing among the Toposa, with some success.\n\nThe Toposa belong to what has been called the \"Karamojong cluster\", which includes the Karamojong people of Uganda, the Dongiro people and Jiye people in south eastern South Sudan and south western Ethiopia, and the Turkana people of Kenya.\nThe Toposa say that they originated in the Losolia Mountains in Uganda, moving away during a severe drought that killed both people and animals.\nA mortal quarrel between the Lwo and Tap (ancestors of the Taposa) people was thought to have upset the harmony of all life in northern Uganda, causing a great famine in 1587–1623. People were forced to move away for great distances, and those who remained were reduced to cannibalism.\nAfter leaving the heartland of the original group the ancestors of the Toposa settled at Losilang for a while, then drifted north in search of grazing. At Loyoro one group, the Nyangatom or Dongiro, went east, while the Mosingo and Kor sections of the Toposa, under pressure from the Turkana, moved west and had settled in Kapoeta by 1830.\n\nThe Lotuho have a tradition that their glorious kingdom of Imatari was destroyed by the Toposa some time around the start of the nineteenth century. An exiled king of the Lotuho had taken refuge in Toposaland, alone apart from his dog. He returned with a band of Toposa who encircled the city. When the people took refuge in the king's palace, which had strong walls, the Toposa pushed over the walls. After the battle the Lotuhu dispersed to villages in their current territory.\nThe Toposa became involved in the ivory trade in the late 19th and early 20th century.\nWhen Muhammad Ahmad established the Mahdiyya in 1881 the effect was to almost stop trade in ivory through Sudan to the north. Instead, exports began flowing through Ethiopia.\nAs the British established a presence in Sudan and East Africa in the 1890s, they imposed regulations preventing export through their territory of immature or female ivory. In response, the Toposa turned increasingly to Maji in Ethiopia as a market for their ivory.\nBefore World War I, Ethiopian influence stretched westward to the Kidepo River and beyond, and the ivory trade in this area was unaffected before 1927.\n\nThe Toposa developed close relations with Swahili traders, and intermarriage was common.\nThe Toposa language became a \"lingua franca\" to the west of Lake Rudolf and throughout most of Eastern Equatoria. The trade route between Mbale in what is now Uganda and Maji ran through Toposa territory, not because it was the shortest route, but because it had dependable year-round water and donkeys could be readily obtained to carry ivory.\nAnother route ran from Maji by way of Obawok, North Lafit, Lafon and the Badigeru swamp to the Nile.\nThe ivory trade brought arms and ammunition from Ethiopia into Toposa territory, and these were used in joint cattle raids with the Swahili on neighbouring people.\n\nThe government of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan \"pacified\" the Toposa territory in 1926/1927. Around the same time, the British East African government established posts in northern Turkanaland to the south. \nWith steadily tightening restrictions, by the early 1930s the Toposa were the main remaining traders in ivory in the southern Sudanese lowlands.\nThe Toposa country remained part of Sudan when that country became independent in 1956.\nThe First Sudanese Civil War, which lasted from 1955 until 1972, had some impact on the Toposa.\nThe Second Sudanese Civil War, breaking out in 1983, had a massive impact.\n\nDuring the Second Sudanese Civil War (1983–2005) the Toposa helped the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) at times, and at other times helped the Government of Sudan.\nThe Toposa took a pragmatic approach, ostensibly siding with whoever gave them the most food and weapons.\nThe SPLA alternated between violence and a more conciliatory approach to the Toposa. In 1985–1986 the SPLA attacked the civilian population of the Toposa, which it deemed \"hostile\". From 1987 the SPLA began an attempt to improve relations with the civilians. By 1988 some of the SPLA fighters were Toposa.\n\nThe Sudan Armed Forces sought to exploit traditional tensions between the Toposa and the Dinka people, to whom many of the SPLA leaders belonged, by supplying arms and ammunition to the Toposa.\nThe firearms were used both to protect and increase wealth in animals, and became a symbol of wealth in themselves. During the 1990s the government of Sudan issued at least 50,000 small arms to the Toposa.\nIn 1992 an AK-47 supplied by the government could be traded for ten cows, or the SPLA would provide G3 rifles in exchange for the AK-47s.\nRaids by the now well-armed Toposa on their neighbors, such as the Suri people of Ethiopia, increased drastically.\nInternally Displaced People (IDPs) moving through Toposa territory were subject to harassment by Toposa militia or bandits.\n\nKapoeta, a town in Toposa country, had been captured by the SPLA on 25 February 1988.\nThe government armed the Toposa so they could fight the SPLA and also fight their traditional rivals the Lotuko people.\nIn March 1992, Toposa militia staged attacks on relief columns attempting to bring supplies into Kapoeta.\nRefugees escaping from Pochalla, which had fallen to the Sudanese government, were attacked by Toposa militia as they made their way to Kapoeta.\nOn 28 May 1992, the government regained Kapoeta in a surprise attack. The Toposa militia, with their knowledge of the terrain, played a central role.\nThe evacuated civilians from Kapeota moved south to Narus, and from there over 20,000 went on to Lokichokio in Kenya, including 12,500 unaccompanied minors.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, the SPLA started a policy of \"deliberate and arbitrary killing of civilians of Toposa ethnicity around Kapoeta ... in retaliation for the involvement of Toposa pro-government militia in the capture of Kapoeta and subsequent attacks on refugees fleeing the town\".\nBy the late 1990s, serious efforts were being made to reduce ethnic tensions.\nThe Inter-African Bureau for Animal Resources sponsored harmonization workshops and meetings to resolve and prevent conflicts among pastoralist communities such as the Toposa and their neighbors.\nThe participants in a Didinga-Turkana-Toposa-Nyangatom women's workshop in February 2000 undertook responsibility for discouraging further livestock rustling and raiding between the communities.\nThe role of women, willing to cross the boundaries and unilaterally initiate peace talks, is without precedent and has been crucial. \nThe Catholic Diocese of Torit was active in resolving conflicts among the Toposa, and conflicts between the Toposa, Didinga and Boya, and the Toposa Development Authority had been established to promote development and peacebuilding among the Toposa.\n\nThere has been a long history of conflict between the Toposa of Namorunyang and the Didinga of Budi County. In the dry season the Toposa would drive their cattle to the Didinga Hills for water and pasture until the rains began in Toposa land. In the past, this practice was carried out by agreement between the two communities, with a gift being made in exchange for the right to access the pasturage. With the proliferation of guns and breakdown of order during the civil war, the traditional protocols were ignored and violence became common.\nIn May 2007 Toposa tribesmen of Namorunyang raided the Ngauro \"Payam\" of Budi County, attacked a group that were resting after working in a collectively-owned field, and took 300 head of cattle and 400 goats or sheep.\n49 women, 4 children and 5 men were killed, while others were wounded.\n\nNadapal, just across the border in Kenya, is a fertile area in which many Toposa took refuge during the civil war.\nWith the end of the conflict, some Kenyans wanted the Toposa of the Nadapal area to return to South Sudan. The Toposa resisted, perhaps in part because they felt that tribes such as the Dinka and Nuer resented the Toposa backing of the Government of Sudan during the civil war, and they would therefore be treated as an unwelcome minority in Eastern Equatoria.\nThere were ongoing clashes between the Toposa and Turkana in this area.\nA May 2010 report said the fighting between Toposa and Turkana had claimed over 40 lives and about 4,000 livestock had been stolen.It also said that George Echom, Deputy Governor of Eastern Equatorial State, had claimed that Nadapal belonged to South Sudan.\n\nA 1982 report said there were 105,000 speakers of the Toposa language, including 95,000 along both sides of the Zingietta and Lokalyen rivers, and 10,000 in Ethiopia.\nMore recent reports give a much higher population.\nIn recent times, improvements have been made in health care, water supply and veterinary services. \nMany of the Toposa children now attend school in Narus and Natinga. These changes are profoundly affecting the traditional social organization.\nWomen are starting to take a more prominent role in resolving disputes.\nThe Governor of Eastern Equatoria, who took office in May 2010, is former Brigadier General Louis Lobong Lojore. He is a Toposa from Kapoeta East County.\n\n"}
{"id": "166280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166280", "title": "Ultranationalism", "text": "Ultranationalism\n\nUltranationalism is an \"extreme nationalism that promotes the interest of one state or people above all others\", or simply \"extreme devotion to one's own nation\". \n\nUltranationalism combined with the notion of national rebirth is a key foundation of fascism.\n\nAccording to Janusz Bugajski, \"in its most extreme or developed forms, ultra-nationalism resembles fascism, marked by a xenophobic disdain of other nations, support for authoritarian political arrangements verging on totalitarianism, and a mythical emphasis on the \"organic unity\" between a charismatic leader, an organizationally amorphous movement-type party, and the nation\".\n\nRoger Griffin asserts that ultranationalism is essentially racist and is known to legitimise itself \"through deeply mythicized narratives of past cultural or political periods of historical greatness or of old scores to settle against alleged enemies\". It can also draw on \"vulgarized forms of physical anthropology, genetics and eugenics to rationalize ideas of national superiority and destiny, of degeneracy and subhumanness\".\n"}
{"id": "17940794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17940794", "title": "Unrecognized Bedouin villages in Israel", "text": "Unrecognized Bedouin villages in Israel\n\nUnrecognized Bedouin villages in Israel are rural Bedouin communities in the Negev and the Galilee which the Israeli government does not recognize as legal. Often they are referred to as \"unrecognized villages\".\n\nThe exact number of unrecognized villages is unknown. Different bodies use different definitions of the term \"village\". As a result, numbers offered by them differ, but there is an increase in the last decade, in spite of a slow recognition process of some of these communities.\n\nAccording to Maha Qupty, representing the Bedouin advocacy organization RCUV, in 2004 there were 45 unrecognized Bedouin villages in the Negev. According to the Human Rights Watch report based upon the 2006 statistics offered by the Adva Center, approximately half of Bedouin citizens of Israel (85,000 out of 170,000) live in 39 such villages.\n\nAccording to another Bedouin advocacy organization The Association of Forty, in 2013 there were about 92 unrecognized villages in Israel, 59 of them were Bedouin villages in the Negev.\n\nAccording to the head of the Bedouin Administration, Yaakov Katz, and geographer Arnon Soffer, in the Negev area alone, there were about 1000 illegal Bedouin concentrations with over 64,000 homes in 2011, with about 2200-2000 new buildings adding every year. For comparison, in 2008 the Goldberg Commission stated that there were 50,000 illegal buildings in the Negev, and about 1,500 to 2,000 more were built every year.\n\nTestifying before the Goldberg Committee in 2010, Israeli right-wing NGO Regavim reported 2,100 separate concentrations in Negev of 3–400 constructions each, covering over 800,000 dunams.\n\nAccording to the Israel Land Administration, Negev Bedouin claim area 12 times bigger than that of Tel Aviv.\n\nAccording to Prof. Sofer, the Bedouin make up about 2% of the Israeli population, but the unrecognized Bedouin communities spread on a vast territory and occupy more than 10 percent of Israel – north and east to Be'er Sheva. According to him, the Negev Bedouin also started to settle west of Be'er Sheva and close to Mount Hebron. Their communities spread south to Dimona and towards the Judean Desert. They occupy large spaces near Retamim and Revivim and get close to the Gaza Strip, occupy land in the central Negev near Mitzpe Ramon, and even close to the central area. In 2010 alone about 66 illegal Bedouin settlements were established in the area of Rehovot and Rishon LeZion. According to Arnon Sofer, the illegal Bedouin expansion continues rapidly in all directions and occupies spaces that Israel did not know before.\n\nBetween 1994 and 2007, Israel recognized 21 Arab townships with a similar illegal status until then. In the Galilee, most of the illegal villages were regulated and recognized, and from a population of 90,000 Bedouin in the north, a few hundred still live in unrecognized villages. In the south, it is estimated that about 90,000 residents live in unrecognized Bedouin villages; these Bedouin comprise 45% of the total Bedouin population.\n\nThe unrecognized villages were built without official permission (this is why they are not recognized by the state) and thus remain ineligible for municipal services, such as connection to the electrical grid, water mains or trash-pickup, and they cannot elect government representatives. They are scattered all over the Northern Negev and often are situated adjacent to military fire zones, natural reserves, landfills, etc. For example, the unrecognized Bedouin village of Wadi al-Na'am is surrounded by an IDF munitions factory and military fire zone, the Efrat Oil Terminal – an oil-storage site, the Israel Electric Corporation and Mekorot – the national water carrier site.\n\nAccording to a report by the Israeli NGO Adva Center, \"The Bedouin living in the Negev constitute the only group of Arab citizens of Israel that still has a large-scale hold on the land, a hold that the state officially denies in principle, while recognizing in practice.\"\n\nAccording to the Israel Land Administration (2007), some 60 per cent of the Negev Bedouin lived in seven permanent state-planned townships, such as Rahat, Tel as-Sabi, Shaqib al-Salam (Segev Shalom), Ar'arat an-Naqab, Kuseife, Lakiya and Hura, while the rest (40 per cent) – \"in illegal homes spread over hundreds of thousands of dunams\".\n\nSince 2003 a number of previously illegal Bedouin communities were recognized by the state (such as al-Sayyid), and several new ones were built (such as Tirabin al-Sana) totaling 12 (not including the previous seven townships). They were united under Abu Basma Regional Council that was split on 5 November 2012 into two newly created bodies: Neve Midbar Regional Council and al-Kasom Regional Council. As of July 2013, there are no updated official statistics on the number of Bedouin living outside the government-planned and officially recognized communities.\n\nDuring the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century, the semi-arid region of the Negev was inhabited mostly by semi-nomadic Bedouin tribes.\n\nIn 1858 the Turks enacted a law stating that all landowners names must be officially documented as a means of regulating matters relating to land in the Ottoman Empire. Most of the land in the Negev was classified as muwat (dead land, wasteland unsuitable for cultivation).\n\nThe Bedouin did not create a written record of their connection to the land, and some argue that even opposed to it, since it would make them subject to the Ottoman empire, what would require them to pay taxes and serve in the Ottoman army. Also, when the publication of the Ottoman Lands Ordinance, the Negev area had no permanent settlement.\n\nBy the year 1896 Negev Bedouin lived in almost complete freedom. The Ottomans were not interested and did not intervene in the Negev and the Bedouins. According to Yosef Ben-Dor, only after a tribal war, the Turkish government marked tribal boundaries, but did not give the Bedouins in this agreement \"ownership\" of tribal territorial lands.\n\nThe British government adopted the Ottoman land laws, and added to them the Land Ordinance, intended to prevent squatting and recognition of unauthorized takeover of land.\n\nIn 1921, the government of the British Mandate issued an order for all the Negev residents to register their land. According to the Land Ordinance of 1921, any Bedouin who cultivated and improved a \"mewat\" (dead) land received a confirmation of ownership on that same land. Although the Bedouin were granted with a special extension of two-month to register their land, they have never done so, and the land remained unregistered.\n\nMandate authorities also conducted a preliminary registration of land and since 1934 began to collect land taxes. Mandatory maps show the location of the Bedouin tribes, however, the maps never marked the boundaries of each tribe.\n\nThe 1947 report of the United Nations Special Committee on Palestine estimated the number of bedouins in the Beersheba district to be about 90,000. In preparation for a 1946 census of Palestine that was never carried out, the British government surveyed all the tribes \"in situ\" and concluded that the number of bedouin in the Beersheba district was about 92,000 out of 127,000 in the whole country. It also reported that they cultivated about two million dunums of cereal land and that aerial photographs of the northern Beersheva taken by the Royal Air Force revealed the existence of 3,389 houses and 8,722 tents.\" The same figure of two million dunams appeared in a 1944/5 book of Yosef Weitz, but in contrast \"Shimoni and Tartakover estimate the area cultivated by Bedouin in the Negev at only 60,000 dunam.\"\n\nAccording to Sasson Bar Zvi, a cultural researcher of the Negev Bedouin, and Arie Efrat who served as director for the Arab villages in the south, the lack of water in the Negev area did not allow its residents to revive the land and therefore they preferred nomadic life and shepherding to an organized and rental land cultivation, and this is why the land remained a desolate area.\n\nAccording to the Bedouin, although they did not document land ownership, the Turkish government and the British recognized the rights of ownership of land in which they roamed, and this recognition was expressed when the Bedouins sold land to the Zionist movement during the British Mandate, and the sales were recognized and recorded in the land registry (Tabu). In contrast, Dr. Yosef Ben-David explains this fact by claiming that the Ottoman and British authorities saw a blessing in transferring land from the Bedouin to the applicant for registration, because they will be likely to use land intensively, without the authorities taking into consideration any legal rights the Bedouins had to the land recognized by either government.\n\nFurthermore, Jews who dealt with redemption of lands in the establishment of Israel gave ex gratia funds to the Bedouin to enable the rapid registration of Israel lands in the land registry, and not because legal recognition of ownership of the Bedouin on the land. Since the beginning of the 1930s and until the establishment of the State of Israel, the Bedouin sold almost 765,000 dunams of land, of which about 180,000 sold to JNF representatives and about 45,000 dunams to private Jews. The rest 545,000 dunams, were sold mainly to Arab peasants from the Gaza Strip.\n\nDuring the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the Negev region saw harsh battles between the newly created Israel Defense Forces and the Egyptian army. In the aftermath of the war, most of the Negev was included within the borders of the newly established State of Israel. Censuses before and after the war indicate that about 80% of the Bedouin population left the Negev to areas that remained under Arab rule.\n\nThe Israeli authorities' treatment of the Bedouin population was ambivalent. On the one hand, the Bedouin were considered loyal to the new state, and some of them even volunteered to serve in the IDF. On the other hand, Israel saw the Negev as its \"hinterland\", being sparsely populated and as the West Bank came under Jordanian rule. The policy eventually adopted was forcing the Bedouin to concentrate in an area of 1,100 km, that has become known as the \"Siyagh\" (Arabic for \"the permitted area\") region, stretching between the West Bank border to the north-east, Be'er Sheva to the south-west and Arad to the south. All the Bedouin remaining under Israeli rule were granted Israeli citizenship, but the \"Siyagh\" region was placed under martial law until 1966, like many other mostly Arab-populated areas in Israel at the time. This was the time when most of the unrecognized villages of today were established.\n\nThe Bedouin claims for ownership on lands in the Negev were, by and large, rejected by the Israeli authorities, on the pretext that the ownership is not appropriately documented or that the lands claimed are not eligible to private ownership. Both Bedouin citizens and state authorities agree that only a small minority of the claim can be backed with full legally valid documentation, however the Bedouin claimants demand that their traditional ties with the lands, namely the fact that they de facto held the rights on these lands without objection on behalf of the former Ottoman or British authorities, be recognized by the State of Israel as ownership.\n\nImplementing her land policies, Israel started to rely on the Ottoman Land Code of 1858, the only preceding law frame in the region. According to these regulations, lands that were not registered as of private ownership, were considered state lands. Israel relied mainly on Tabu recordings. Most of the Bedouin land fell under the Ottoman class of 'non-workable' (mawat) land and thus belonged to the state under Ottoman law. Eventually, Israel nationalized most of the Negev lands, using The Land Rights Settlement Ordinance from 1969.\n\nIn order to reinforce the invisible Siyag fence and sedentarize the Bedouin, the State employed a reining mechanism, the Black Goat Law of 1950. The Black Goat Law curbed grazing so as to prevent land erosion, prohibiting the grazing of goats outside recognized land holdings. Since few Bedouin territorial claims were recognized, most grazing was thereby rendered illegal.\n\nMost Bedouin who had the option, preferred not to register their lands under the Ottoman rule as this would mean being taxed without representation or services. Those whose land claims were recognized found it almost impossible to keep their goats within the periphery of their newly limited range. Into the 1970s and 1980s, only a small portion of the Bedouin were able to continue to graze their goats. Instead of migrating with their goats in search of pasture, the majority of the Bedouin migrated in search of wage-labor.\n\nIn the mid-1970s Israel let the Negev Bedouin register their land claims and issued special certificates that served as the basis for the \"right of possession\" later granted by the government. Following the signing of the Treaty of Peace with Egypt, it became necessary to move an airport from a Sinai peninsula to a locality inhabited by some five thousand Bedouin. The government, recognizing these land claim certificates, negotiated with the certificate holders and paid compensation to them. Most moved to Bedouin townships, built houses and established businesses.\n\nThe Israeli government has promoted the sedentarization of the Bedouin population. In 1963, Moshe Dayan said:\n\nDayan added, \"Without coercion but with governmental direction ... this phenomenon of the Bedouins will disappear\".\n\nThe Bedouin communities in the Negev, many unrecognised by the Israeli government, were classified as \"open areas\" during the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict and so their 200,000 residents did not have warning sirens or anti-rocket protection.\n\nIn the 1970s Israel collected all the \"claims of ownership\" in the Negev, without permits and without proof, for the purpose of registering these claims. However, the Bedouin saw the state registry as a recognition for their claims. More than 3,000 ownership claims were filed for the land sized over 800,000 dunams, which includes nearly the whole area between Be'er Sheva – Arad – Dimona and other areas throughout the entire Negev, including those that belong to kibbutzim and cities.\n\nIn the first years of the arrangement, anyone demanding area of over 400 dunams had the opportunity to get 20% of the land from the Land Registry, and for the rest of the area they would receive financial compensation. Anyone who demanded less than 400 dunams, had received only monetary compensation. In addition, the state of Israel compensated the Bedouin for any building, tin shack, barn or even a tree that the Bedouin placed and the government removed. The compensation value was even higher than the property's value in the market. In 20% of the claims the state has reached a settlement with the Bedouin.\n\nAt the same time, some Bedouin tried to claim the land ownership in the court, despite the May 1984 Supreme Court precedent ruling of Justice Avraham Halima, stating that Bedouin are nomads by definition and thus cannot have any ownership of land. In all 80 cases in which Bedouin claims arrived to court, the judges ruled in favor of the state, since there was no document proving Bedouin land ownership. According to recent data submitted to the Goldberg Commission by the Bedouin Administration in July 2008, 2840 claims remained, whose overall area is 571,186 dunams.\n\nDealing with the problem of the Negev Bedouin, between 1968 and 1989 Israel built seven planned townships especially for the Bedouin in the attempt to urbanize them. The largest Bedouin locality in Israel, the city of Rahat, was established in 1971. Other townships include Tel as-Sabi (Tel Sheva) (established in 1969), Shaqib al-Salam (Segev Shalom) in 1979, Ar'arat an-Naqab (Ar'ara BaNegev) and Kuseife in 1982, Lakiya in 1985 and Hura in 1989.\n\nSince grazing has been severely restricted, and the Bedouin rarely receive permits to engage in subsistence agriculture, few of the Bedouin in unrecognized villages consider the urban townships as desirable form of settlement. Denied access to their former sources of sustenance via grazing restrictions, severed from the possibility of access to water, electricity, roads, education, and health care in the unrecognized villages, tens of thousands of Bedouin citizens of Israel resettled in the townships.\n\nAccording to Ben Gurion University's Negev Center for Regional Development, these first towns were poorly planned and were lacking business districts or industrial zones; as Harvey Lithwick of the Negev Center for Regional Development explains: \"the major failure was a lack of an economic rationale for the towns\".\n\nOn 29 September 2003 Israeli government has adapted a new \"Abu Basma Plan\" (Resolution 881), according to which a new regional council was formed, unifying a number of unrecognized Bedouin settlements – Abu Basma Regional Council. This resolution also regarded the need to establish seven new Bedouin settlements in the Negev, literally meaning the official recognition of unrecognized settlements, providing them with a municipal status and consequently with all the basic services and infrastructure. The council was established by the Interior Ministry on 28 January 2004.\n\nMoreover, Israel is currently building or enlarging some 13 towns and cities in the Negev. According to the general planning, all of them will be fully equipped with the relevant infrastructure: schools, medical clinics, postal offices, etc. and they also will have electricity, running water and waste control. Several new industrial zones are planned, some are already being constructed, like Idan haNegev on the suburbs of Rahat. It will have a hospital and a new campus inside.\n\nIsrael is trying to solve the problem of unrecognized villages by attracting the scattered communities into government-planned townships and villages offering land plots at low prices and as an extreme measure – following the court order and all the legal procedure – demolishes houses built without state's permission on what it considers to be state lands. The unrecognized villages are not accurately marked on any official maps.\n\nA number of villages has been recognized in the 2000s as a part of creation of the Abu Basma Regional Council. In 2009 the Goldberg Commission recommended that most of the 46 unrecognised villages east of Route 40 should be recognised and their 50,000 illegal structures be legalized.\n\nIn 2010, Israeli authorities demolished the unrecognized village of al-Araqeeb. Since then it has been rebuilt and destroyed several dozen times (September 2012). The matter of land ownership in the area of al-Araqeeb was raised in court when several members of al-Uqbi family filed a suit against the State claiming ownership of land. After a thorough examination of this case involving leading experts in the field, in March 2012 came a court ruling in favor of the State. Judge Sarah Dovrat said that the land was not \"assigned to the plaintiffs, nor held by them under conditions required by law,\" and that they still had to \"prove their rights to the land by proof of its registration in the Tabu\" (Israel Lands Authority). The judge noted that the Bedouin knew they were supposed to register but did not.\n\nIn September 2011, the Israeli government approved a five-year economic development plan called the \"Prawer plan\". One of its implications is a relocation of some 30.000–40.000 Negev Bedouin from areas not recognized by the government to government-approved townships.\n\nAccording to the PMO official press release, the plan is based on four main principles: \n\nWhen the cabinet approved it, simultaneously it also approved a NIS 1.2 billion economic development program for Bedouin Negev whose main purpose is to support the Bedouin women and youth in the fields of employment since they will contribute to the increased economic growth of the entire Bedouin community. Much of the approved funds will be allocated for the development of industrial zones, establishment of employment centers and professional training.\n\nAccording to the Prawer plan, the present Bedouin communities will undergo a comprehensive planning process. The existing communities will be expanded, some unrecognized communities will be recognized and start to receive public services, while their infrastructure will be renewed. All these changes will be done in the framework of the Beer Sheva District masterplan. It's important to note that the nature of these future communities, whether agricultural, rural, suburban or urban will be decided in full cooperation with the local Bedouin. For those of them who are to be relocated, 2/3 of them will receive a new residence nearby.\n\nThe Prawer plan seeks to give an answer to numerous land claims filed by the Bedouin. It will offers significant compensation in land and funds – 50% of the claim (currently it's only 20% offered), while each claim will be dealt in a unified and transparent way provided by law.\n\nNevertheless, exists harsh criticism of the Prawer plan. Critics say that it will turn Bedouin dispossession into law and come to a conclusion that relocation of the Bedouin will be compelled. Some even speak about ethnic cleansing. As a result, these remarks provoked heavy criticism of the plan by the European Parliament.\n\nThere are several examples of success in this matter: after a number of complicated agreements with the state all of the Bedouin of Tarabin clan moved into a township built for them – Tirabin al-Sana. Following negotiations, the Bedouin of al-'Azazme clan will take part in the planning of a new quarter that will be erected for them to west of Segev Shalom township, cooperating with The Authority for the Regulation of Bedouin Settlement in the Negev.\n\nOne of the main hindrances in finding a solution for the illegal settlement is the Bedouin Tribal Law which states that one should not settle on a land that other Bedouin claims to own it.\n\nAccording to the head of the unrecognized villages – Hussein Abu Pia testifying in front of the Goldberg Committee members: \"If the land is in a one Bedouin's claim of ownership, the other will not come close. He would not dare. He will prefer to live in a cave, instead of approaching the land\".\n\nThere is a common phenomenon of the Bedouin who receive compensation and new homes in legal towns, yet return and construct again in state lands thus not fulfilling the agreements signed with the government. They were paid a compensation for relinquishing their claims to the state, but still claim ownership on the land to other Bedouin, so the problem remains unsolved. The town of Kuseife, for example is built almost entirely on lands claimed by different tribes, and thus two-thirds of the city is empty.\n\nBedouin lands' claims don't take into account central planning issues. When agreement made, the Bedouin receive 20%–62% of the land they claimed. These lands are speckled with those registered in the Land Registry as belonging to other Bedouin. As a result, state encounters a serious problem developing Negev. Due to this issue, it is not possible to develop the eastern part of the Be'er Sheva metropolitan.\n\nAccording to government sources, another hindrance in the arrangement attempts is the absence of deadline for the negotiations. According to Prof. Sofer: \"Bedouin always say 'no' to attempts to reach a compromise with them about the lands that they claim, because they know that every 'no' only strengthens them. One of the main problems in this program is lack of a final date. The state should set a date by which it is willing to give increased compensation for those who erase the claim of ownership, and from there on – no more compromise and a confrontation is needed even if it will come at a high price.\"\n\nAccording to officials involved in negotiations, there is a lack of consistency in granting compensations. The Bedouin Administration manages negotiations with each tribe or family separately, soo the compensation size differs. Conciliatory families receive lower compensation, while the recalcitrant families' compensation is higher (a good example is the evacuation of the Bedouin Tarabin from the outskirts of Omer). The state also offers higher compensations to families with a leader that the government needs him by their side, or to families that claim land ownership in the areas of special importance to the state. One of the reasons for the lack of uniformity is the crisis of the Bedouin community leadership. Currently there is no agreed Bedouin leadership to resolve the land issue, and the Bedouin refuse to place representatives on the ground, so there is no authority to represent all of the claimants.\n\nAnother factor hindering the arrangement is tribal feud. According to one of the negotiators, attorney Itay Bar, Southern District Attorney for Civil Affairs, \"Sometimes you can not place one Bedouin next to another because his son insulted him 20 years ago\".\n\nAccording to Faisal el-Husael, the public representative from the Bedouin inside the Goldberg committee, often the Bedouin are not willing to relocate to planned towns since they prefer rural settlements to semi-urban townships.\n\nIllegal villages are a deteriorating problem and one of the reasons is the high population growth. The Negev Bedouin have one of the highest rates of natural growth in the world, standing at 4–5.5% per year, which means doubling the population every 12–15 years. So while in 1951 they numbered 12,000, in 1970 – about 25,000, in 1990 – about 87,000 people, and in 2008 – approximately 180,000. In 2020 are expected to reach 400,000.\n\nIn 2008 Israel Central Bureau of Statistics informed that fertility rate among the Arab population in the south of Israel (primarily Bedouin) dropped from 9 children per woman in 2003 to 7.6 children in 2005, but it still remains high relatively to other population groups inside Israel.\n\nThe high fertility rate for Bedouin is exacerbated by polygamy (up to 36% of Bedouin men are polygamous) and illegal infiltration estimated at 16,000 women who had infiltrated for polygamy (until 2004) and were accompanied by their families.\n\nIn 2008, Israel together with leading figures in the Bedouin community initiated a state program to address the phenomenon of Bedouin polygamy and its severely harmful implications on family structure.\n\nBedouin advocates argue that the main reason for the transfer of the Bedouin into townships was demographic. They note that in 2003, director of the Israeli Population Administration Department, Herzl Gedj, described polygamy in the Bedouin sector as a \"security threat\" and advocated various means of reducing the Arab birth rate. In 2003, Shai Hermesh, the treasurer of the Jewish Agency, told \"The Guardian\": \"We need the Negev for the next generation of Jewish immigrants\" and added, \"It is not in Israel's interest to have more Palestinians in the Negev.\" Bedouin rights groups opposed this plan, as they were concerned that the unrecognized villages might be cleared to make way for Jewish development and potentially ignite internal civil strife.\n\nIn October 2011 the government decided to establish seven new agricultural settlements in the area of Mevo'ot Arad. On 14 August 2012, residents of five unrecognized Bedouin villages, along with residents of Arad, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI), Bimkom – Planners for Planning Rights, and the Negev Coexistence Forum for Civil Equality, petitioned the High Court of Justice against the plan saying that it will uproot 800 Bedouin.\nIsrael has encountered a problem of maintaining law due to uncontrolled illegal construction in the Negev Bedouin dispersed communities. In 1945 there were 290 illegal structures in the dispersed communities, in 1956 – 955, in 1994 – 12,000, in 1998 – 24,225, in 2004 – 42,561, and in 2011 – 64,000. Between the years 1998–2001, the demolition of illegal buildings stopped as a government policy and gradually resumed later. Law enforcement has failed, and there is no viable option to destroy all illegal construction. The threat of destruction does not deter residents from illegal building.\n\nAccording to enforcement officials, it is not possible to monitor every case of illegal construction because the residents who build in the dispersed communities impose on the inspectors criminal and terrorist threats.\n\nAccording to the Commissioner of Administrative Enforcement Shlomo Cizzer: \"We evacuate only intruders who have a place to live, we have evacuated, and will re-evacuate, the people who invaded al-Araqeeb, because they have homes in Rahat, Lod, and in Kafr Qasim. They invaded just to prove ownership of the land. There are tens of thousands of others who are also criminals whom we do not evacuate, because they have no other houses to go to. Until the state decides what to do with them, we will act in accordance with the law \".\n\nWhile Bedouin take up open spaces that could be used for touristic purposes and construction of towns to accommodate new settlers, prominent Israeli environmental figures argue, that unapproved construction of unrecognized villages are an environmental hazard.\n\nSome ecologists say that Bedouin communities are causing damage to ecosystems since the Negev has unique habitats. There is a transitional area between the desert and the border region of the south of Judaean Mountains and Shfela, where most plant and animal species perform a gradation between habitats. Therefore, this zone is vital for them, especially during the global warming when species of the desert are expected to migrate to the north.\n\nThe keeping and feeding livestock bring steady amounts of vegetation food that grow wild and bring about consolidation of invading flora species. The Bedouins keep livestock in herds greater than the carrying capacity of the land, which leads to serious overgrazing, and to the creation of vast areas of empty of any plants. The cumulative effect creates huge areas where there is no vegetation at all (not natural and not agricultural) and no animals. In fact, the result is an ongoing and total destruction of habitat. Species unique to the region as \"Pterocles\", houbara bustard, leopard fringe-fingered lizard and irises, disappeared from large surfaces.\n\nIllegal gas stations in the Bedouin dispersed communities represent a threat to the quality of air, soil and groundwater as fuel tanks do not meet basic standards of environmental protection meant to ensure that the fuel does not soak into the soil and groundwater, as well as the fuel itself does not meet environmental standards.\n\nAccording to Itamar Ben Dodi from the Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel, the lack of sewage infrastructure and waste removal and illegal slaughter houses in the Bedouin dispersed communities cause an accumulation and spreading of wastewater and household waste that reach streams channels and cause odor nuisances, health problems for residents, and damage to nature.\n\nIn July 2013 Israeli government ordered to allocate NIS 40 million for garbage pick-up and recycling for the Negev Bedouin communities in the area of the Al-Kasom and Neveh Midbar regional councils – for the first time. The main reason for the lack of garbage collecting services was unresolved land ownership disputes. Some homes in the area do not have legal standing and consequently do not pay local taxes which leads to the lack of income for the local authorities to operate garbage collection services.\n\nA large number of Israelis, including both Bedouin and Jews, are settled in some 2.5% of the Negev desert available for civilian use living in proximity to Israel's nuclear reactors, 22 agro and petrochemical factories, an oil terminal, closed military zones, quarries, a toxic waste incinerator (Ramat Hovav), cell towers, a power plant, several airports, a prison, and two rivers of open sewage. Some of this infrastructure is concentrated on the grounds of the unrecognized village of Wadi el-Na'am. According to the Ministry of Health data (as of June 2004), the rates of cancer and mortality are 65% higher for those living within a 20 km radius of the Ramat Hovav Industrial Zone. Some 350,000 people live within this danger zone, including the residents of Beer Sheva.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46464452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46464452", "title": "William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research", "text": "William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research\n\nThe William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research is an award acknowledging contributions to health care research. It is funded by the Baxter International Foundation, and awarded every year through the US-based Association of University Programs in Health Administration (AUPHA). The recipient is awarded $25,000, with another $25,000 given to a non-profit institution selected by him or her.\n\nUntil 2005, the prize was named \"The Baxter International Foundation Prize for Health Services Research\". It was renamed in 2006, after the death of long-time CEO of Baxter International, William B. Graham.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57162877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57162877", "title": "Yusuf Khel", "text": "Yusuf Khel\n\nYusuf Khel, along with the Daulat Khel, Khulozai, Maghdud Khel, Mahmud Khel, Mahsud Khel and Umar Khel, is a sub-division of the Kakazai, Tarkanis/Mamund tribe of the Pashtuns located in Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\n"}
