{"id": "9200313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9200313", "title": "Alexander Kennedy Miller", "text": "Alexander Kennedy Miller\n\nAlexander Kennedy Miller (July 14, 1906 – October 23, 1993), also known as A. K. Miller, was an eccentric recluse who operated Miller's Flying Service in 1930, in Montclair, New Jersey, US. Miller provided mail and other delivery services by means of an autogyro, as well as listing \"Expert Automobile Repairing\" and \"Aeroplanes Rebuilt & Overhauled\" on his business card. In his later years he was known for his eccentricities, and his collection of valuable antique cars.\n\nMiller was the only child of a wealthy New York City stockbroker and wholesale merchant. He purchased his first Stutz automobile while still in high school. He soon purchased more Stutz cars from bankruptcy auctions and a number of autogyros from the military for a small fraction of their actual value.\n\nMiller attended Rutgers University on a scholarship to study mechanical engineering. A note alongside his yearbook picture describes an occasion when he rode down the street on a motorcycle, without a coat, in the wintertime, going to the barber shop \"for his quarterly haircut\".\n\nIn 1941, Miller married Imogene Raymond (1917–1996), the daughter of William Everett Raymond and Maria Louise Cook.\n\nDuring World War II, when Miller discovered he was too old to fly in the U.S. Air Force, he instead joined the Royal Canadian Air Force, rising to the rank of captain. He taught tactical aviation and salvaged damaged aircraft, some of which he would go on to purchase himself and later sell.\n\nAfter retiring from the Air Force in 1946, Miller and his wife moved to a large farm in East Orange, Vermont. The house had no central heating, antiquated plumbing and limited electricity; hot water was created by metal coils inside the wood stove.\n\nIt is here that Miller's eccentricities began to emerge. He exchanged most of his cash for gold and silver bars and coins. He took his autogyro apart and stored the pieces inside an old one-room schoolhouse that stood on his property. Over the years, he constructed a large number of sheds and ramshackle barns out of scrap lumber and nails that he scavenged from various places. Inside the shacks, Miller concealed his trove of prized Stutz motorcars. While locals knew he had a Stutz or two, and Miller was known to other Stutz collectors, nobody knew the true extent of the collection.\n\nMiller often drove considerable distances for good deals on auto or airplane parts. According to car aficionado Roderick C. Rice, Miller told him a story about driving a 1917 Stutz Bulldog (the first car Miller owned) to St. Louis to pick up an airplane wing. \"A. K. said he brought it back, driving with the canvas roof down and the wing replacing it, strapped to two-by-fours attached fore and aft.\"\n\nAs time went by, the farmhouse and the farm in general became dilapidated. In keeping with his frugal nature, Miller himself usually drove beat-up Volkswagen Beetles and when one would break down or he grew tired of it, he would abandon it in his yard. The neighbors often worried that the Millers were poor, and sometimes made offers of charity.\n\nAt times, to raise cash, Miller would sell \"spare parts\" to other Stutz owners for their repair/restoration projects. However, rather than selling the actual parts (which he owned a large quantity of), he would painstakingly fabricate them himself from scrap metal, using his own cars and spare parts as templates. He was known to other Stutz aficionados as a shrewd but cheap businessman. David Brownell, editor of \"Hemmings Motor News\" said of Miller \"Every time you'd try to do business with him, he'd quote the Bible to an annoying degree. If you asked him whether he'd be interested in selling a car, he'd say, 'You're being covetous.\"'\nIn the 1970s, Miller's father died and Miller inherited the estate in Montclair and the family fortune.\n\nWhat this miserly lifestyle and ill-kept property hid was eventually to bring $2.18 million at auction. The 87-year-old A.K. Miller himself died in 1993 after falling from a ladder, and Imogene died of a heart attack in 1996. As no heirs were found, the IRS moved in to assess the value of the estate (taking a particular interest in collecting the years of back taxes the Millers had owed).\n\nAll told, approximately 30 original Stutz motorcars, a Stanley Steamer, a 1926 Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost, several Franklins, a Volkswagen Karmann Ghia (which had somehow been placed in the loft of the main barn), and assorted VW Beetles were discovered about the property. The main barn and the various sheds and shacks Miller had constructed over the years hid a fortune in antique vehicles and a huge number of spare parts Miller had purchased from the Stutz company when it went out of business.\n\nA further $1 million in gold bullion was discovered hidden in the wood pile. About $900,000 in stock certificates, and $75,000 in silver bullion and coins were also uncovered in various safes and crawl spaces.\n\nA huge, 3-day auction was held by Christie's Auction House to liquidate the Miller estate, including the cache of antique and other automobiles, and a cache of other collected items including music boxes (one of which sold for $7,040), typewriters, sewing machines, spool cabinets, and other assorted mini-collections. Today, the A.K. Miller collection is recognized as one of the largest and most well-known collections of Stutz motorcars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "949996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949996", "title": "Allan Gregg", "text": "Allan Gregg\n\nAllan Gregg is a Canadian pollster, political advisor, television interviewer and pundit.\n\nGregg was born in Edmonton, Alberta. He was the eldest child in his family which consisted of four boys and one girl. Gregg graduated from Harry Ainlay High School at the second top of his class with honors. Gregg then went on to study political science at the University of Alberta and Carleton University in Ottawa. He briefly served as a professor while working on his PhD, but abandoned his studies due to the birth of his first child in 1975.\n\nGregg has long been involved in Canadian politics, but decided to travel south of the border to work with Republican Party pollster Richard Wirthlin, and learned much from him. He then returned to Canada in the late 1970s. He first came to national attention as the national campaign secretary of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada successful effort in the 1979 federal election.\n\nSoon after that campaign, Gregg founded Decima Research, a joint polling/public relations firm. The company became the Conservative party's polling firm, and Gregg played an important role in the 1984 election when the PC Party was led by Brian Mulroney. With the Conservative victory, Decima Research and Gregg entered the halls of power, and he was frequently at Prime Minister Mulroney's side. Decima and Gregg worked for the federal Tories, operated in many provincial elections, and expanded worldwide, participating in over forty-five elections on three continents.\n\nGregg was an unusual-looking figure in Canadian politics, and especially in the Tory party. He adopted a unique style including gold earrings, bright red shoes, long hair, and a great deal of leather clothing. He founded a record label, The Song Corp., and was co-manager of the Tragically Hip. He also served a five-year stint as president of the Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nHe rose to greater prominence in the 1988 election where he handled communications and polling for the PC Party. Long an advocate for negative campaigning, he directed the famed \"bridge bombing\" attack on Liberal leader John Turner that was designed to break the bridge linking anti-free trade voters to Turner. The offensive was a success, Turner's popularity dropped, and the Tories were re-elected. He also played an important role in the 1992 Canadian referendum where he crafted the message that the doom of Canada would be the certain result of a \"No\" vote.\n\nGregg was given even more responsibility in the 1993 federal election campaign. He was senior pollster as well as top strategist and communications manager.\n\nThe 1993 Conservative Federal campaign was an unmitigated disaster for all concerned, including Gregg. Other campaign leaders complained that his many duties meant he missed too many meetings. Gregg again pushed for negative tactics, crafting an attack ad one of which Canadians found especially distasteful and offensive. The ad ridiculed a facial deformity of Liberal leader Jean Chrétien which was a result of a childhood polio infection. This ad backfired and the Conservatives were reduced to two seats in the House of Commons of Canada from their previous 151 seats. This was the result of a number of factors, including the intense unpopularity of former Conservative Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. His party suffered the worst defeat ever in Canadian history for an incumbent federal party.\n\nWhile the Tory campaign was not going well, this television ad (which aired on only one evening) was a memorable element. Modern Canadian national political campaign coverage has had few noteworthy campaign moments, but much like the 1984 Mulroney Turner debate (\"You had an option, sir\"), this advertising mistake was memorable. Attacking a physical defect was widely seen by Canadians as a low blow and as an American-style no-holds-barred campaign style that should not be imported. Several years later Gregg wrote about this in the pages of \"Saturday Night\" magazine, where his \"mea culpa\" rang hollow, as he continued to argue that \"the ad tested well in the focus groups.\"\n\nAfter the campaign, Gregg left public life for a time. He quit Decima, and sold his share of the company for millions of dollars. He cut his hair, and turned to a more reserved form of dress.\n\nAfter a year off, he founded a new company, The Strategic Counsel, a market research and consulting firm, but one geared towards business rather than politics. He returned to the public eye as a columnist in Maclean's magazine and a frequent pundit on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation news for several years.\n\nGregg also had a weekly television show, \"Allan Gregg in Conversation with...\" on the public broadcaster TVOntario. Its format was a half-hour, in-depth interview format, in which the subject of the interview was usually an author or intellectual discussing a current release. The format differed from traditional interview programs in that it included more comments from the interviewer (Gregg) than is usually the case. After several years of production TVO cancelled the program.\n\nIn 2001, he strongly denounced negative campaigning in a lecture at the School of Journalism and Communication at Carleton University, saying that it would destroy politics as we know it and \"invite totally unaccountable forces\" to \"influence society without the countervailing force of representative democracy\".\n\nGregg was born in 1949 and has three children; Christian (b. 1975), Allanah (b. 1986), and Connor (b. 1988); his wife Marjorie died in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27827652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27827652", "title": "Andi Meriem Matalatta", "text": "Andi Meriem Matalatta\n\nAndì Meriem Matalatta (August 31, 1957 – June 4, 2010) was an Indonesian pop singer known for hits, especially during the 1980s. She was nicknamed \"The Pearl from the South\" among Indonesians.\n\nShe was born on August 31, 1957, in Makassar, Sulawesi, Indonesia, as the fifth of six children. She had one daughter, Diana, with her first husband, Andi Hermien Matallata. She later remarried to her second husband, Hendra Pribadi.\n\nAndì Meriem Matalatta died at a hospital in Zoetermeer, the Netherlands, of complications of multiple illnesses, including diabetes, on June 4, 2010, at the age of 53. She had been visiting the Netherlands with her daughter, Diana. She had been suffering from a gangrenous wound on her hand and hypertension.\n\nHer body was flown back to Indonesia for her funeral.\n\n"}
{"id": "52768212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52768212", "title": "Aniceto Porsisoca", "text": "Aniceto Porsisoca\n\nAniceto Porsisoca was the stage name of Carlos Alvarez Pineda, a Salvadorean comedian.\n\nPineda was born in Santa Ana, El Salvador on February 24, 1928. Aniceto was fond of \"Cujucuyo,\" his place of birth.\n\nAt a young age (14), Pineda enrolled in the Escuela Normal de Maestros de San Salvador with the goal of becoming a teacher, which he was able to do after temporarily leaving school due to his father's death.\n\nEarly in his career, Pineda worked on Radio as a comedic narrator alongside Paco Medina Funes.\n\nBeyond working on the radio, Pineda also appeared on Television Shows (such as \"Las Puntadas de Aniceto\"), comic books and magazines.\n\nCarlos Alvarez Pineda was declared Hijo Meritísimo de El Salvador for his contributions to the national arts.\n\nCarlos Alvarez Pineda, a.k.a. Aniceto Porsisoca, died on June 9th 1993 due to throat cancer.\n\nAniceto was married to \"La Peche\" (The Skinny Woman) and his pet dog's name was \"Huracan\" (Aniceto used to brag that his dog was so obedient that he once urged the dog to attack a potential attacker by yelling \"Huracan, ataque\" (Attack, Huracan) and poor Huracan fell to the floor with a heart attack.\n\nAniceto contributed phrases to the Salvadorean vocabulary such as:\n"}
{"id": "3367867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3367867", "title": "Antoni Patek", "text": "Antoni Patek\n\nAntoni Norbert Patek (; 14 June 1812 – 1 March 1877) was a Polish pioneer in watchmaking and a creator of the Patek Philippe & Co., one of the most famous Swiss watchmaker companies.\n\nAntoni Patek was born in 1812 in Piaski Szlacheckie near Lublin in the Duchy of Warsaw to Anna née Piasecka and Joachim Patek of Prawdzic coat of arms. At the age of 10, Patek moved with his parents to Warsaw where his father died on April 7, 1828.\n\nOn March 1, 1828, 16-year-old Patek joined the Polish 1st Mounted Rifles Regiment. He fought in the November Uprising during which he was wounded twice. On February 27, 1831 for his heroic attitude Patek was promoted the second lieutenant of the \"1 August\" brigade, and on October 3 of the same year decorated with Virtuti Militari Golden Cross. After the downfall of the uprising – like many other officers and soldiers of Polish Army – he had to emigrate.\nIn 1832 he was engaged by general Józef Bem in organising an evacuation route for Polish insurgents through Prussia to France. He was charged with a command over a staging point in Bamberg near Munich (one of five staging points on the insurgents' evacuation route). After terminating the evacuation, Patek settled in France, firstly in Cahors, then in Amiens where he worked as a type-setter.\n\nTwo years later an unfavourable decree issued by the French government under pressure from the Russian embassy, forced many former insurgents to resettle in Switzerland. Patek tried his hand at many trades, including trading with liquors and wines in Versoix near Geneva. For some time Patek attended painting courses given by the famous Swiss painter and engraver Alexandre Calame. During his studies, Patek also traveled to Paris where he remained for several months. Around this time, he was befriended by the Moreau family of Versoix who he became friends with, and at whose home he would meet his future wife. They probably encouraged him in a new activity – the trade in expensive pocket watches, which were decorated by the goldsmiths, engravers, enamellers and miniaturists of the time. He thus started by buying movements of watches which he got to the Geneva watchmakers already known for the quality of their products and, under his direction, made them furnish with cases. From the very start, he attached highest importance to the quality and the artistic value of work and rather quickly managed to find the market where such creations of exceptional quality were highly appreciated.\n\nOn July 10, 1839 in Versoix, Patek married Marie Adélaïde Elisabeth Thomasine Dénizart, a daughter of a French tradesman Louis Charles Dénizart from Turin, and of his wife Marie Jeanne Adélaïde Elisabeth, née Devimes. Antoni and Marie de Patek had three children. The first one, Boleslas Joseph Alexandre Thomas (Bolesław Józef Aleksander Tomasz), born on June 16, 1841, died on September 18 of the same year. The two others were born much later, when Marie de Patek already was respectively 39 and 41 year old: a son, Leon Mecislas Vincent (Leon Mieczysław Wincenty), July 19, 1857 and one girl, Marie Edwige (Maria Jadwiga), October 23, 1859.\n\nOn May 1, 1839 in Geneva, Antoni Patek together with another Polish immigrant (who in fact was of Czech descent), the gifted Warsaw watchmaker Franciszek Czapek established their manufacture producing watches. The company was financially supported also by its first workers, among others Polish watchmakers: Wawrzyniec Gostkowski, Wincenty Gostkowski, and Władysław Bandurski. The first pocket watches were produced on individual orders. Primarily the young firm's artistic production reflected themes from Polish history and culture, such as portraits of revolutionary heroes, 10th and 12th centuries’ legends, and the cult of the Polish The Black Madonna of Częstochowa.\n\nThe small company Patek, Czapek & Co, which employed a half-dozen of workmen, produced approximately two hundred watches of quality per annum. The few preserved specimens make it possible to note the degree of perfection of these first watches, result of a successful union between artistic research and the technical skill.\n\nAmong the collection of The Patek Philippe Museum there are watches presenting Coat of Arms of Princess Zubów (see picture ) from 1845 and the portraits of Polish general Tadeusz Kościuszko, and Polish prince and marchal of France Józef Poniatowski (see picture ) from 1948.\n\nIncreasing disagreement between Patek and Czapek obliged the latter to withdraw. In 1851 Czapek established Czapek & Co. where he produced watches until 1869. On May 15, 1845 the place vacated by Czapek was filled by the 30-year-old French watchmaker Adrien Philippe, who in 1842 invented the key-less winding mechanism.\n\nOn January 1, 1851 Patek & Co. transformed into Patek Philippe & Co.. The company started mass production of pocket watches.\n\nBoth co-owners recognised perfection as their ideal, and the company gained its success thanks to principles that Antoni Patek left to his descendants:\n\nThe \"Queen Victoria\" (see picture ) open-face keyless-winding watch was presented to Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom during the Great Exhibition of London at Hyde Park (Crystal Palace), on August 18, 1851.\n\nIn 1868, Patek Philippe made their first wristwatch, which was sold on November 13, 1876 to the Hungarian Countess Koscowicz. They have also pioneered in perpetual calendar, chronograph and minute repeater in watches.\n\nLooking for trade contacts Patek travelled among others to England (1847), USA (1854), and Russia (1858).\n\nAfter Patek's death the company changed its owners several times; since 1929 Patek Philippe & Co. has been owned by the Stern family, but kept its original name. Patek Philippe & Co. issues collectable watches every year, and till today has remained a coveted luxury brand. Patek Philippe & Co. is the only Geneva watch manufacturer honoured with the Geneva seal. Of all the movements bearing the Geneva Seal distinction, 95% are Patek Philippe & Co. timepieces. The company does not cease in its efforts to innovate its products. Patek Philippe & Co. has been awarded more than 70 patents, since implementing in 1845 the stem winding system. The 20 most expensive wristwatches sold at auction are all from Patek Philippe & Co. The Patek Philippe Henry Graves Supercomplication watch made in 1933 holds the world record for the most expensive watch—sold at auction in 1999 for more than $11 million.\n\nThe Sky Moon Tourbillon Ref 5002 is currently the world most complex complication timepiece. At present only 3 pieces are produced a year. Owners of these watches are selected by Patek Co as they are highly sought after. They are sold primarily to collectors rather than traders so as to avoid the flipping of watches for profits.\n\nIn 1843, Patek was naturalized in Geneva and thus acquired Swiss nationality. However, he did not cease his political activity of a Polish emigrant and did not stop in his efforts to bring his assistance to the refugees. Thus, in 1838, he supported the initiative of a group of Polish emigrants for the establishment of \"Polish Foundation\", organization of mutual aid which was founded the following year and of which he became the treasurer and one of the most active members. In May 1844, he took part in the installation of a Polish Library with a salon of lecture in Geneva. Persuaded of the need for a centralization of the organizations of Polish emigrants, he recommended to the Poles residing in Geneva to collaborate with the commission of the \"Funds of Polish Emigration\" and the \"Polish Library\" of Paris. In the years 1843, 1845 and 1847 he requested the support of prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski for this Society. On May 18, 1846, Patek adhered to the Polish Democratic Society of Lyon and, during the Spring of Nations in 1848, he went secretly to Frankfurt am Main to propose there, at the time of the meeting on March 6 of Dozór Polski, the convocation of the Polish Parliament in exile.\n\nThe political activities of Patek during the January Uprising in 1863 were described by Julian Aleksander Bałaszwicz, writing under the pseudonym of Albert Potocki. After the crushing of the insurrection, Patek brought his assistance to the refugees arriving to Geneva and maintained the relations with the of the Resurrection of Our Lord Jesus Christ, (Polish: \"Zmartwychwstańcy\"), in Paris. Thereafter, the pope Pius IX conferred on Patek the title of count, in recognition of the services rendered as well as an active Catholic, as within the community of the Polish emigrants. Unfortunately, the files of the Vatican do not preserve documents providing information about the date and the nature of this distinction.\n\nAntoni Patek died in Geneva and was buried in a local cemetery in Chatelaine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2713470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2713470", "title": "Athanase Seromba", "text": "Athanase Seromba\n\nAthanase Seromba (born 1963) is a Rwandan priest who was found guilty of aiding and abetting genocide and of crimes against humanity committed in the Rwandan genocide.\n\nAt the time of the genocide, Seromba was priest of a Catholic parish at Nyange in the Kibuye province of western Rwanda. He was charged with the deaths of around 2,000 Tutsis who took refuge in his parish church. According to the charges brought against him, Seromba ordered his church to be bulldozed on April 6, 1994, and then shot some survivors.\n\nSeromba fled Rwanda in July 1994. Catholic monks helped him move to Italy, change his name and also helped him work as a priest for the Catholic Church near the city of Florence using the alias Anastasio Sumba Bura. Under pressure from Carla Del Ponte, the then Chief UN War Crimes Prosecutor, Seromba surrendered himself to the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) on February 6, 2002. On February 8, 2002, he pleaded not guilty to the charges of genocide, complicity in genocide, conspiracy to commit genocide and extermination as a crime against humanity. His trial began on September 20, 2004, before the Third Trial Chamber of the ICTR. On 13 December 2006, he was found guilty and sentenced to 15 years in prison.\n\nSeromba appealed the verdict. On 12 March 2008, the Appeals Chamber of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) decided his responsibility was even greater than previously found, affirmed his conviction, and increased his punishment to life in prison.\n\nOn 27 June 2009, Seromba was transferred to Benin. Seromba is serving his life sentence at Akpro-Missérété prison at Porto-Novo, Benin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33139691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33139691", "title": "Baodu", "text": "Baodu\n\nBaodu () is a halal tripe dish that is part of Beijing cuisine. It is traditionally prepared by the Muslim Hui people.\n\nIt was first recorded in the Qing dynasty. There are many restaurants and street pedlars selling it in Beijing, such as Baodu Feng, a traditional and well-known restaurant established in 1881.\n\n\nThe dish is made of fresh tripe (beef omasum) or fresh lamb tripe which is firstly cut into slices, blanched in boiling water rapidly and then removed. It is a stiff test of a cook's ability, requiring rich experience and superb cooking skills to control the boiling time and the fire.\n\nThe seasoning is mainly a mixture of jiang Doufu, sesame paste, and salted Chinese chives flower. Additionally, ingredients such as soy sauce, vinegar, pungent sauce, fermented bean curd, coriander powders, or chopped green onion can be added according to taste.\n"}
{"id": "12307765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12307765", "title": "Dada Lekhraj", "text": "Dada Lekhraj\n\nLekhraj Khubchand Kripalani (15 December 1876 – 18 January 1969), also known as Dada Lekhraj, was the founder of the Brahma Kumaris.\n\nLekhraj Kripalani was born in a Hyderabad, Sindh in 1876. In his fifties, Kripalani reported having visions and retired, returning to Hyderabad and turning to spirituality.\n\nIn 1936, Lekhraj established a spiritual organisation called Om Mandali. Originally a follower of the Vaishnavite Vallabhacharya sect and member of the exogamous Bhaiband community, he is said to have had 12 gurus but started preaching or conducting his own \"satsangs\" which, by 1936, had attracted around 300 people from his community, many of them being wealthy. According to BKWSU claims, a relative reported that a spiritual being (Shiv) entered in his body and spoke through him. Since then, Lekhraj has been regarded by the BKWSU as a medium of God, and as such, speaking channeled messages of high importance within the religious movement's belief system.\n\nIn 1937, Lekhraj named some of the members of his satsang as a managing committee, and transferred his fortune to the committee. This committee, known as \"Om Mandali\", was the nucleus of the Brahma Kumaris. Several women joined Om Mandali, and contributed their wealth to the association.\n\nThe Sindhi community reacted unfavourably to Lekhraj's movement due to the group's philosophy that advocated women to be less submissive to their husbands, going against that strong cultural aspect at the time in India, and also preached chastity.\n\nOrganizations like the Indian National Congress and Arya Samaj accused Om Mandali of being a disturber of family peace. Some of the Brahma Kumari wives were mistreated by their families, and Lekhraj was accused of sorcery and lechery. He was also accused of forming a cult and controlling his community through the art of hypnotism.\n\nTo avoid persecution, legal actions and opposition from family members of his followers, Lekhraj moved the group from Hyderabad to Karachi, where they settled in a highly structured ashram. The Bhaibund anti-Om Mandli Committee that had opposed the group in Hyderabad followed them. On 18 January 1939, the mothers of two girls aged 12 and 13 filed an application against Om Mandali, in the Court of the Additional Magistrate in Karachi. The women, from Hyderabad, stated that their daughters were wrongfully being detained at the Om Mandali in Karachi. The court ordered the girls to be sent to their mothers. Om Radhe of the Om Mandali appealed against the decision in the High Court, where the decision was upheld. Later, Hari's parents were persuaded to let their daughter stay at the Om Mandali.\n\nSeveral Hindus continued their protests against Om Mandali. Some Hindu members of the Sindh Assembly threatened to resign unless the Om Mandali was finally outlawed. Finally, the Sindh Government used the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1908 to declare the Om Mandali as an unlawful association. Under further pressure from the Hindu leaders in the Assembly, the Government also ordered the Om Mandali to close and vacate its premises.\n\nAfter the partition of India, the Brahma Kumaris moved to Mount Abu (Rajasthan) in India in April 1950.\n\nLekhraj died on 18 January 1969, and the Brahma Kumaris subsequently expanded to other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "419786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419786", "title": "Danes", "text": "Danes\n\nDanes () are a North Germanic ethnic group native to Denmark.\n\nDenmark has been inhabited by various Germanic peoples since ancient times, including the Angles, Cimbri, Jutes, Herules, Teutones and others. The first mentions of \"Danes\" are recorded in the mid 6th century by historians Procopius () and Jordanes (\"danī\"), who both refer to a tribe tribe related to the Suetidi inhabiting the peninsula of Jutland, the province of Scania and the isles in between. Frankish annalists of the 8th century often refer to Danish kings. The Bobbio Orosius from the early 7th century, distinguishes between South Danes inhabiting Jutland and North Danes inhabiting the isles and the province of Scania.\n\nThe first mention of Danes within the Denmark is on the Jelling Rune Stone which mentions how Harald Bluetooth converted the Danes to Christianity in the 10th century. Between c. 960 and the early 980s, Harald Bluetooth established a kingdom in the lands of the Danes, stretching from Jutland to Scania. Around the same time, he received a visit from a German missionary who, by surviving an ordeal by fire according to legend, convinced Harold to convert to Christianity.\n\nThe following years saw the Danish Viking expansion, which incorporated Norway and Northern England into the Danish North Sea Empire. After the death of Canute the Great in 1035, England broke away from Danish control. Canute's nephew Sweyn Estridson (1020–74) re-established strong royal Danish authority and built a good relationship with the archbishop of Bremen — at that time the Archbishop of all of Scandinavia. Over the next centuries the Danish empire expanded throughout the southern Baltic coast. Under the 14th century king Olaf II, Denmark acquired control of the Kingdom of Norway, which included the territories of Norway, Iceland and the Faroese Islands. Olaf's mother united Norway, Sweden and Denmark into the Kalmar Union.\n\nIn 1523, Sweden won its independence, leading to the dismantling of the Kalmar Union and the establishment of Denmark-Norway. Denmark-Norway grew wealthy during the 16th century, largely because of the increased traffic through the Øresund. The Crown of Denmark could tax the traffic, because it controlled both sides of the Sound at the time.\n\nThe Reformation, which originated in the German lands in the early 16th century from the ideas of Martin Luther (1483–1546), had a considerable impact on Denmark. The Danish Reformation started in the mid-1520s. Some Danes wanted access to the Bible in their own language. In 1524, Hans Mikkelsen and Christiern Pedersen translated the New Testament into Danish; it became an instant best-seller. Those who had traveled to Wittenberg in Saxony and come under the influence of the teachings of Luther and his associates included Hans Tausen, a Danish monk in the Order of St John Hospitallers.\n\nIn the 17th century Denmark-Norway colonized Greenland.\n\nAfter a failed war with the Swedish Empire, the Treaty of Roskilde in 1658 removed the areas of the Scandinavian peninsula from Danish control, thus establishing the boundaries between Norway, Denmark, and Sweden that exist to this day. In the centuries after this loss of territory, the populations of the Scanian lands, who had previously been considered Danish, came to be fully integrated as Swedes.\n\nIn the early 19th century, Denmark suffered a defeat in the Napoleonic Wars; Denmark lost control over Norway and territories in what is now northern Germany. The political and economic defeat ironically sparked what is known as the Danish Golden Age during which a Danish national identity first came to be fully formed. The Danish liberal and national movements gained momentum in the 1830s, and after the European revolutions of 1848 Denmark became a constitutional monarchy on 5 June 1849. The growing bourgeoisie had demanded a share in government, and in an attempt to avert the sort of bloody revolution occurring elsewhere in Europe, Frederick VII gave in to the demands of the citizens. A new constitution emerged, separating the powers and granting the franchise to all adult males, as well as freedom of the press, religion, and association. The king became head of the executive branch.\n\n (\"danskhed\") is the concept on which contemporary Danish national and ethnic identity is based. It is a set of values formed through the historic trajectory of the formation of the Danish nation. The ideology of Danishness emphasizes the notion of historical connection between the population and the territory of Denmark and the relation between the 1000-year-old Danish monarchy and the modern Danish state, the 19th century national romantic idea of \"the people\" (\"folk\"), a view of Danish society as homogeneous and socially egalitarian as well as strong cultural ties to other Scandinavian nations.\n\n\"Det danske folk\" (The Danish people) as a concept, played an important role in 19th century ethnic nationalism and refers to self-identification rather than a legal status. Use of the term is most often restricted to a historical context; the historic German-Danish struggle regarding the status of the Duchy of Schleswig vis-à-vis a Danish nation-state. It describes people of Danish nationality, both in Denmark and elsewhere. Most importantly, ethnic Danes in both Denmark proper and the former Danish Duchy of Schleswig. Excluded from this definition are people from the formerly Norway, Faroe Islands and Greenland as well as members of the German minority as well as members of other ethnic minorities.\n\nImportantly, since its formulation, Danish identity has not been linked to a particular racial or biological heritage, as many other ethno-national identities have. N. F. S. Grundtvig for example emphasized the Danish language and the emotional relation to and identification with the nation of Denmark as the defining criteria of Danishness. This cultural definition of ethnicity has been suggested to be one of the reasons that Denmark was able to integrate their earliest ethnic minorities of Jewish and Polish origins into the Danish ethnic group. Jewishness for example was not seen as being incompatible with a Danish ethnic identity as long as the most important cultural practices and values were shared. This inclusive ethnicity has in turn been described as the background for the relative lack of virulent anti-semitism in Denmark and the rescue of the Danish Jews, saving 99% of Denmark's Jewish population from the Holocaust.\n\nModern Danish cultural identity is rooted in the birth of the Danish national state during the 19th century. In this regard, Danish national identity was built on a basis of peasant culture and Lutheran theology, with Grundtvig and his popular movement playing a prominent part in the process. Two defining cultural criteria of being Danish was speaking the Danish language and identifying Denmark as a homeland.\n\nThe ideology of Danishness has been politically important in the formulation of Danish political relations with the EU, which has been met with considerable resistance in the Danish population, and in recent reactions in the Danish public to the increasing influence of immigration.\n\nDanish diaspora consists of emigrants and their descendants, especially those that maintain some of the customs of their Danish culture. A minority of approx. 50,000 Danish-identifying German citizens live in Southern Schleswig in Germany, a former Danish territory, forming around 10% of the local population. In Denmark, the latter group is often referred to as \"Danes south of the border\" (), the \"Danish-minded\" () or simply \"South Schleswigers\". Due to immigration there are considerable populations with Danish roots outside Denmark in countries such as United States, Brazil, Canada and Argentina.\n\nDanish Americans () are Americans of Danish descent. There are approximately 1,500,000 Americans of Danish origin or descent. Most Danish-Americans live in the Western United States or the Midwestern United States. California has the largest population of people of Danish descent in the United States. Notable Danish communities in the United States are located in Solvang, California, and Racine, Wisconsin, but these populations are not considered to be Danes for official purposes by the Danish state, and heritage alone can not be used to claim Danish citizenship, as it can in some European nations (see below).\n\nAccording to the 2006 Census, there were 200,035 Canadians with Danish background, 17,650 of whom were born in Denmark. Canada became an important destination for the Danes during the post war period. At one point, a Canadian immigration office was to be set up in Copenhagen.\n\n"}
{"id": "1982355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1982355", "title": "David H. Frisch", "text": "David H. Frisch\n\nDavid Henry Frisch (March 12, 1918 – May 23, 1991) was an American physicist who helped develop the atom bomb in World War II and later became active in the disarmament movement. He was also the husband of Rose Epstein Frisch.\n\nBorn in New York, Frisch grew up in San Antonio and graduated from Princeton in 1940. He was a graduate assistant at the University of Wisconsin–Madison from 1940 to 1942, and then worked at Los Alamos from 1943 to 1945. After the war he moved to MIT, beginning as a research associate in 1946, obtained his PhD in 1947 and was appointed an assistant professor in 1948, associate professor in 1952 and full professor in 1958. He retired in 1988.\n\nFrisch was a fellow of the American Physical Society and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was the recipient of Fulbright, Guggenheim, Alfred P. Sloan and National Science Foundation research fellowships.\n\nFrisch served on the Physics Advisory Committee of the National Science Foundation, on the Brookhaven High Energy Advisory Committee, and was chairman of the Long-Range Planning committee of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.\n\nFrisch was active in the field of nuclear disarmament, participating in the Moscow Pugwash Conference in 1960, editing the book \"Arms Reduction\" in 1961, and participating in the 1962 Woods Hole Summer Study on Inspection.\n\nAmong his scientific publications was a 1963 paper in which he and James H. Smith succeeded in showing objective time dilation in the decay of cosmic muons. A thirty-five-minute movie describing this experiment performed both on the top of Mount Washington in New Hampshire as well as at MIT is available online.\n\nHe was married to biologist Rose Frisch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43235829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43235829", "title": "Deneen Borelli", "text": "Deneen Borelli\n\nDeneen Laverne Borelli (née Moore; born May 28, 1964) is an American conservative author, columnist, and television personality. She is best known for writing \"Blacklash: How Obama and the Left are Driving Americans to the Government Plantation\", a political critique of what she describes as progressivism, crony capitalism, and elitism under the Obama administration.\n\nBorelli is a contributor to Fox News and Fox Business programs such as \"Hannity\", \"The O'Reilly Factor\", \"Fox and Friends\", and \"Lou Dobbs Tonight\". She is a correspondent for Conservative Review. Borelli is also a member of Project 21, a network of black conservatives organized by the National Center for Public Policy Research.\n\nTea Party group FreedomWorks chose Borelli in 2012 to lead its outreach to minorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "35822713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35822713", "title": "Emma Swan", "text": "Emma Swan\n\nEmma Swan is a fictional character in ABC's television series \"Once Upon a Time\". She is portrayed by Jennifer Morrison, by Abby Ross as a teenager, and Mckenna Grace as a child. Emma first appeared in the series's pilot as a bail bond agent in Boston, Massachusetts until she meets her biological son Henry, whom she gave up for adoption 10 years before, and learns she is the daughter of Snow White and Prince Charming. Henry urges Emma to go to the fictional town of Storybrooke, Maine, to break a curse enacted by the Evil Queen and to restore the fairy tale characters' happy endings.\n\nThe daughter of Snow White and Prince Charming, an ex-bail bonds collector, town sheriff of Storybrooke and Henry Mills' biological mother. Morrison described her character at the beginning of the first season as \"broken, damaged and worldly\". During the fourth season finale, \"Operation Mongoose\", Emma absorbs the power of the Dark One into herself to save Storybrooke In order to successfully create a dark version of Emma, Morrison explained that \"In order to build Dark Emma, I've been doing a bunch of research there with some of their mythology books and old fairy tale books and just looking back through the history of swans and the etymology of 'Swan'\" and explained that Emma's rate of evolution \"challenged [her] on a daily basis\". Emma became the primary antagonist of the fifth season's first half, until the end of the season's eighth episode when her real plans are revealed.\n\nMorrison's portrayal of Emma has received praise, with some reviewers noting a feminist twist in the depiction of fairy tales and a strong female lead. She is loosely based on the title character of the fairy tale \"The Ugly Duckling\", a swan which was lost and raised by ducks, before finding its birth family and recognizing its true nature, while her Dark One side is loosely based on Odile the Black Swan from the ballet \"Swan Lake\". It is revealed in the Season 6 episode \"Tougher Than the Rest\" that she chose the last name Swan when she was young after a friend mentioned that story.\n\n In early stages of the conception of the character, Emma's name was Anna, and she was supposed to have three children, but she ended up having just Henry. In the original script of the Pilot, she is described as \"Late 20s. Beautiful, with great strength behind classic features. But also not quite at home in her skin.\"\n\nIt was reported that actress Katee Sackhoff auditioned five times for the role of Emma, but according to her, the producers really wanted Morrison to play the part, and she accepted a role in the television series \"Longmire\". In the end, Morrison was hired for the part of Emma. Morrison explained her character as someone who \"help[s] her son Henry whom she abandoned when he was a baby and who seems like he's a little bit emotionally dysfunctional\", but noted that Emma does not start out believing in the fairytale universe. Morrison has described Emma as being like an overgrown teenager who does not know how to properly do certain things, like eating or taking care of herself; this is due to Emma not growing up in a family unit. Morrison said that when she does not know what to do with Emma, she thinks, \"What a 14-year-old boy would do?\" Morrison has also stated that Emma is loosely based on \"The Ugly Duckling\", and that Emma's last name Swan is derived from this fairy tale. According to the creators of the series, the name Swan is \"very symbolic and fairy tale name and it just felt right for her and for the journey we are creating for Emma.\"\n\nAfter Emma became the \"Dark One\" at the end of the fourth season of the series, Morrison began doing research with mythology books and old fairy tale books, and looking back through the history of swans and the etymology of 'Swan' to prepare for this new trait of her character. For Morrison, it is a great opportunity to now play a villain and it is challenging for her to portray a character that is constantly evolving.\n\nEmma is the daughter of Snow White and Prince Charming, older sister to Prince Neal and mother to Henry Daniel Mills.\n\nWhen Snow White becomes pregnant, Geppetto forms a magical wardrobe for her and Charming, after Rumplestiltskin informs them that their daughter is the key to breaking the Evil Queen's curse in 28 years. Emma is born shortly after and placed in the wardrobe along with Pinocchio, successfully travelling to the new land.\n\nIn the real world, Emma grows up in foster care, bouncing from various families, one including Ingrid, the Snow Queen. As a teenager, Emma becomes a petty criminal with Neal Cassidy. They plan to start a new life in Tallahassee, Florida, until Neal is persuaded by August Booth (Pinocchio) to turn Emma over to the police, to protect her destiny. Emma is jailed, later giving birth to Henry, whom she gives up for adoption to give him a better life; he is then adopted by Regina Mills (the Evil Queen). After some time in prison, Emma becomes a bail bond agent. On her 28th birthday, a ten-year-old Henry Mills arrives in Boston, explaining Emma's origins. Disbelieving him, she returns him home to Regina in Storybrooke, who becomes worried that Emma wants to be in Henry's life. Regina's repeated warnings to leave town and keep out of Henry's life make Emma decide to stay. In Storybrooke, Emma initially wants Henry to let go of his theories of the curse, but later plays along. She moves in with Mary Margaret (Snow White), unaware that they are related, and Sheriff Graham appoints Emma his deputy as the two form an attraction, until Regina crushes his heart, causing him to die in Emma's arms. Emma is soon elected sheriff, assisting in the arrest of Mary Margaret for the alleged murder of Kathryn Nolan until she is found alive. When August Booth (Pinocchio) arrives in Storybrooke revealing her destiny of breaking the curse, a pressured Emma decides to leave the town, not wanting Henry to suffer from her and Regina's feud. Regina, however, attempts to poison Emma, though Henry willingly consumes it to prove that magic exists. Emma finally believes, but Henry is pronounced dead. However, he is awoken with true love's kiss from Emma, thus breaking the curse and allowing all residents to remember their true identities.\n\nEmma reunites with her parents, only to fall through a portal with her mother to the Enchanted Forest. They meet Princess Aurora and Mulan who help them return to Storybrooke. Emma then helps Mr. Gold travel to Manhattan to locate his son Baelfire, who she discovers is Henry's father Neal. Returning to Storybrooke, Emma deals with Regina and her mother Cora who are trying to use Mr. Gold to kill them and take back Henry but they eventually stop them then end up dealing with newcomers Greg Mendell and Neal's fiancé Tamara. Emma's skeptical theories on the pair are proven correct when it is revealed they want to destroy magic. After Emma and Regina stop their trigger to destroy Storybrooke, Henry is taken to Neverland by Greg and Tamara; Emma, her parents, Regina, Hook and Mr. Gold follow them.\n\nThe team eventually manages to rescue Henry from the sinister Peter Pan, and return to Storybrooke. However, Pan enacts the original curse once more, forcing Emma and Henry to leave Storybrooke after Regina reverses her curse, erasing the events following its enactment. Emma's past is temporarily altered by Regina. After leaving Storybrooke, Emma lives with Henry in New York City. Sometime later, she meets Walsh and they begin dating.\n\nOne year after the curse's reversal, Hook restores Emma's memories with a potion and the two return to Storybrooke with Henry to save her family by breaking the new curse caused by Zelena, the Wicked Witch of the West. She finds an insane Neal trapped within Mr. Gold's body. Losing his mind, Neal asks for Emma to free his father by killing him to defeat Zelena; she reluctantly agrees. Regina later helps Emma to strengthen her magical powers, though they are removed when Zelena curses Hook but thanks to Regina they managed to defeat Zelena and close her time portal.\n\nAfter Emma and Hook are dragged into Zelena's time portal, she accepts Storybrooke as her home, regaining her magic to re-open the portal to the present where she begins a relationship with Hook. However, unaware to her, she also brings a previously deceased Maid Marian to the future which ruins Regina's happiness, having not heeded the warning of messing with the past. Elsa, who was trapped in an urn, was also brought to Storybrooke by the time portal. While working with Elsa, who helps Emma to finally embrace and control her powers, Emma helps her new friend find her sister and return home while balancing the threat of the Snow Queen, who turns out to have been one of Emma's foster mothers, against her friends and family. After a period of peace, Emma begins to help Regina on her quest to find the Author of Henry's book. Cruella De Vil and Ursula soon come into town resurrecting Maleficent and working with Rumplestiltskin to find the very same author, intent on giving villains their happy endings. After Cruella De Vil threatens to kill Henry, Emma kills her, soon after learning of her parents' actions of removing Emma's potential for darkness by putting black magic within Maleficent's daughter and Emma's childhood friend Lily. After Emma returns to town, with the encouragement from Hook, she chooses to forgive her parents and let go of her anger. In moments before the finale, Emma is able to finally let her walls down and tells Hook she loves him. Emma then chooses to sacrifice herself for the town of Storybrooke, asking her parents and Hook to save her, she voluntarily plunges the dagger into the Darkness, transforming into the new Dark One.\n\nEmma searches for Merlin and is helped by a manifestation of Rumplestiltskin, who wants to teach her to be the Dark One, while Emma attempts to resist becoming evil at the same time. Sometime later, she transformed Hook into a second Dark One to save his life. Hook then cast the Dark Curse to get back to Storybrooke to have his revenge on Mr. Gold. Emma then altered the curse, adding a dream-catcher in it to wipe out everyone's memories of their time in Camelot.\n\nSix weeks later, the rest of her friends returned to Storybrooke, but with a horrifying and shocking twist, their memories were wiped out once again and wearing Arthurian attires. As it turned out Emma made an appearance as the Dark One, with her new attire. Henry asks what happened to her, and she told them that they all went to Camelot to remove the darkness from her and they all failed (except Henry). Emma with her powers turned Sneezy into stone, proclaiming that there's no savior in the town. Emma surprisingly gave the Dark One dagger to Regina with the intention that if she goes too dark Regina would be the only one that would willingly \"put her down.\" Shortly after this, Hook attempts true love's kiss with Emma in the hopes that the Dark One's curse would break, but ultimately failed, as Emma has fully embraced the darkness. Unbeknownst to the others, Emma currently has possession of the Excalibur in a locked room inside of her new house. She intends to make Excalibur and the Dark One's dagger whole again, as with it she will be able to snuff out the light forever and become invulnerable. However, she must recruit a hero to do so, as she cannot remove the sword; the hero she chooses is her predecessor Rumplestiltskin, who she tells finally has a chance to become a hero. She planned to siphon the darkness out of both of them and put it Zelena, who she forced into an accelerated labor to avoid killing Robin's child, and slay her. She regains her memories of what Hook plans, by resurrecting all the Dark Ones as part of his revenge. At first, Emma plans to absorb all the darkness inside her and kill herself. Things do not go according to plan when Hook steals it from her. Killian orders her to kill him, taking in all the darkness and Emma slays him with Excalibur while the darkness is removed from her, reverting to her old self. After blackmailing Mr. Gold for tricking her and Hook into making him the Dark One again, she and her friends and family descend into the Underworld to find Hook and plans to split her heart in half and share it with him like her parents.\n\nArriving in the Underworld, Emma is contacted by Neal Cassidy, who warns to turn back, advice Emma chooses to ignore. She and the others later discover that the Underworld is for those with unfinished business, and they decide to help others move on, while they search for Hook. With the help of Hook's ex-girlfriend Milah, Emma manages to retrieve Hook from Hades's captivity. However, she is unable to split her heart, as Hades has decided that she, Regina, and Snow are to remain behind for freeing the souls of Prince Henry, Hercules, and Megara. It is discovered that the only way they would have a chance to return to the \"Overworld\" with Hook is by overthrowing Hades. In order to defeat Hades, Emma and Hook receive help from Hook's brother Liam; however, it is soon discovered that Liam betrayed them after being blackmailed by Hades. Fortunately, Henry agrees to help undo Liam's work by using his powers as the Author. Later, when Emma and Hook try to perform the heartsplit, they are informed by Hades that Hook's body has been dead for too long and is decaying, making him unable to come back to life. When Emma and Hook go into the depths of the Underworld to find ambrosia, something that would save Hook, they are faced with a True Love test, which they pass when Emma chooses Hook over her own heart, only to realize that Hades had tricked them and destroyed the ambrosia, and Hook tells Emma to leave him in the Underworld, as time is running out for her to go through the open portal. Emma objects, saying that she came to the Underworld to save Hook, and she wasn't leaving without him. Hook eventually gets her to say her goodbyes and she does, only to find out that Hades had trapped her and her family in the library using magic. Emma and Regina work together to use their own magic to counteract it. They all go through the portal, and while Emma has second thoughts about leaving Hook, she is persuaded to go by her father. When they get back to Storybrooke, Zelena is informed by Regina and Robin that Hades tried to trap them in the Underworld, but she brushes off the information and is upset with her sister. She talks to Hades about having the life she wants, which is just a simple picket fence life. However, Hades wants a whole kingdom. Robin and Regina break into the mayor's house, where Zelena and Hades are, trying to get Robin's daughter back from Zelena. Emma, distraught and unable to grieve Hook's death, tries to break down the protection spell surrounding the house, but Zelena uses her magic to stop her. Hades is about to use the Olympian Crystal to \"end\" Regina, but Robin steps in front of her, taking the blow, which kills him. Hades tries to pressure Zelena into killing Regina, but she stabs Hades instead.\n\nBefore Robin's funeral, Emma stands at Hook's grave and cries, trying to cope with the fact that he is truly gone now. Suddenly, a wave of magic flies through the air, causing her to stumble. She hears her name called from behind her and turns around and is shocked to see Hook. She happily embraces Hook, who tells her Zeus sent him back as a reward for stopping Hades. After informing him that Robin is gone, Emma decides to break the news about Hook's return to Regina as delicately as possible. However, when an earthquake occurs, Hook rushes to see if Emma is okay. It turns out the earthquake was caused by Mr. Gold tethering magic to the Olympian Crystal fragment. Emma works with Regina to find it, only to later have Gold explain that Henry used his Author power to steal the crystal to destroy magic (\"again\"). Both follow Henry to New York, where it turns out Gold got the crystal back. At the same time, Hook, David, Snow and Zelena are accidentally sucked into another realm, which they could become trapped in without any magic in the Real World. Henry succeeds in destroying magic, only to be later convinced by the Dragon to get enough belief to recharge the crystal. It works and everyone is brought home. Once back in Storybrooke, Emma shares a passionate kiss with Hook.\n\nIn the past, Aladdin, a \"Savior\", is taunted by Jafar over the inevitable downfall of all Saviors. In Storybrooke, refugees arrive from the Land of Untold Stories. Emma experiences tremors and visions; an arrested Hyde helps her receive an oracle's vision of a hooded figure killing her. Guided by Morpheus, Gold enters Belle's dreams to lift the sleeping curse; he tries to renew their love, but she rejects him. \"Morpheus\" reveals he is really their unborn son, and desired this outcome. Emma’s death visions trouble her, as it puts her future with Killian in doubt, and after seeing him entertain Ashley’s daughter, asks him to move in with her.\n\nEmma discovers the sword can kill the Evil Queen without hurting Regina. The Queen steals the lamp and wishes Emma to an alternate reality where she was never the Savior; Regina follows her. In the \"wish realm\", Emma lives as a princess until Regina traumatically restores her memory. Regina frees Rumplestiltskin in exchange for a magic bean, but the portal to Storybrooke closes while Regina is distracted by the appearance of Robin Hood.\n\nIn 1990 Minnesota, a young Emma is told by a teenager that she has the power to change her fate. In present day, after they miss their way out of the Wish realm, Emma and Regina find another option for escape when they come across August, who agrees to help create a new portal. Emma discovers that August was the teenager she met back in Minnesota and inspires him to complete the portal. Emma, Regina, and Robin return to Storybrooke, where Gideon explains to Gold and Belle his intention to kill Emma so that he can acquire her savior powers and kill the Black Fairy, a move that has David furious and Belle concerned. Emma and Gideon finally meet for the battle, but Emma survives, choosing her own fate. Gideon retreats, proclaiming this far from over. Gold and Belle decide to work together for the good of the son.\n\nIn the past, Snow makes a wish that grants the entire Enchanted Forest to use the gift of Song to defeat Regina, which also spreads to Oz as well. When Regina also becomes affected by the wish she finds a way to end it before the first curse takes place, but the Blue Fairy, who granted Snow the wish, tells Snow and David that the wish will be part of Emma's destiny. In Emma's past, her chance to make use of her talent is held back by being told she'll be alone. This would come back to taunt Emma in the present day, as Fiona returns to use that weakness to take Emma's heart before she unleashes a new curse on her wedding, with unlikely help from Gold by freezing her family. When Henry discovers the page in the book that reveals Emma's heart will make her stronger, not only does it embolden Emma, it stopped Fiona from crushing it, but Fiona still tells her the battle is still on. On wedding day, Emma and Hook finally marry just in time for the dark clouds to release a new curse that will set up the final battle.\n\nFiona's curse wipes Emma's memory past the final episode of season 1, and places her in a mental institution, where she (and the rest of the town) believes that Henry is Fiona's rightfully adopted son and all the fairytale stories were untrue. Henry, after several instances tries to get her to believe the truth, but she rebuffs him and moves back to Boston. Meanwhile, the rest of the characters are trapped in the Enchanted Forest as it and all the other realms crumble as a consequence of Emma's refusal to believe. However, Emma, inspired by a book Henry had created detailing her journey, returns to Storybrooke and chooses to believe him. Rumple successfully kills Fiona, which restores Emma's belief and transports the other characters back to Storybrooke. Emma fights Gideon, still under Fiona's lasting control, but ultimately chooses to sacrifice herself. Henry brings her back with True Love's Kiss and Gideon turns back into a baby, allowing Rumple and Belle a second chance.\n\nAt the end, Emma and Regina are shown to drop Henry off at his bus stop, and Emma later makes Hook deputy sheriff. All the characters are later gathered at Granny's for dinner as the book ends with the words, \"And they all lived happily ever after\".\n\nIn the past, Emma is shown to share her concerns with Hook about Henry growing up while contemplating having another child. Later, Henry chooses to go to other realms in search of his story, and meets another version of Cinderella, whom he falls in love with. In that time, Emma becomes pregnant with her second child and goes to answer Henry's distress call along with Killian and Regina, with the former insisting she rest. Wish Hook, however, shows up and knocks out Hook, taking his place in hopes of traveling to Storybrooke with Emma and finding a cure for his poisoned heart. Hook manages to recover and fights Wish Hook, until the latter accidentally stabs himself with a dagger. As he lays dying, he admits to having a daughter and that he was searching for her. However, Emma manages to heal him and convinces him to travel with Henry in search of both their happy endings. She later leaves with her husband back to Storybrooke.\n\nHenry and the others manage to foil a plot by Wish Rumple to wreak havoc on all the realms, and end up bringing them all to Storybrooke. Emma gives birth to a baby girl named Hope and, along with Hook, attends Regina's coronation where she is crowned \"The Good Queen\" of all the realms.\n\nJennifer Morrison has received praise for her portrayal of Emma. In a review from the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\", TV critic Gail Pennington had high marks for Morrison. Mary McNamara of the \"Los Angeles Times\" gave excellent reviews for Morrison's character: \"Her Emma is predictably cynical and prickly – fairy-tale princess, my Aunt Fanny – but she's sharp and lively enough to keep audiences begging for 'just a few more pages' before they go to bed.\" For \"TVLive\", \"Morrison does a nice job of mirroring the viewer's disbelief of this fantastical dilemma – and Emma looks like she could become a worthy adversary for Regina.\" For Daniel Fienberg, \"Jennifer Morrison is very good in the lead\". On less favorable reviews, Matthew Gilbert of \"The Boston Globe\" was not enthusiastic of Morrison's portrayal and called her a \"wooden lead\".\n\nSeveral feminist outlets were pleased with the show for its feminist twist on fairy tales and with Emma being a strong female protagonist. Genie Leslie at \"Feministing\" commented that Emma was a \"badass\", that she liked how Emma was \"very adamant that women be able to make their own decisions about their lives and their children\", and how Emma was a \"well-rounded\" character who was \"feminine, but not 'girly. Natalie Wilson from \"Ms.\" praised the show for a strong, \"kick-butt\" female lead, and for dealing with the idea of what makes a mother in a more nuanced fashion.\n\n"}
{"id": "38913214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38913214", "title": "Gard Holtskog", "text": "Gard Holtskog\n\nGard Holtskog (born 1905, date of death unknown) was a Norwegian lawyer, and civil servant for the Nazi regime during the German occupation of Norway. He was installed as a board member at the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation and at Nationaltheatret. He was later given the position of Police President of Finnmark, and assisted during the evacuation. He had an unpredictable behaviour. While in Finnmark he personally took part in torture and execution. During the legal purge he was sentenced to imprisonment for life, but was released in the mid 1950s.\n"}
{"id": "3719660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719660", "title": "Gheorghe Apostol", "text": "Gheorghe Apostol\n\nGheorghe Apostol (May 16, 1913 – August 21, 2010) was a Romanian politician, deputy Prime Minister of Romania and a former leader of the Communist Party, noted for his rivalry with Nicolae Ceaușescu.\n\nApostol was born near Tudor Vladimirescu, Galați County.\n\nAfter training at the Căile Ferate Române (CFR) school, he worked in a CFR foundry in Galați. In 1932, Apostol met Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, and became involved in the communist underground. He joined the Party in 1934 and became its link with the railway trade unions and minor left-leaning groups in Galați.\n\nArrested several times, Apostol was sentenced in 1937 to three years in prison, which he served in Galați and Doftana. His activities upon his release from jail got him interned in camps for political prisoners, at Târgu Jiu, Caracal, and Miercurea Ciuc. In August 1944, as the Red Army was approaching the Romanian border, Apostol and several communist figures who were being detained at Târgu Jiu escaped and made their way to the underground. This version of the story follows Apostol's official biography of the 1950s; photos taken upon the liberation of the camp (published in \"Dosarele Istoriei\", for instance), allegedly showing him in the middle of the crowd of former prisoners, made some doubt this account.\n\nHe was among the most prominent collaborators of Gheorghiu-Dej. As members of the so-called \"prison faction\", opposed to the large group of Party members who had taken refuge in the Soviet Union prior to 1944, Gheorghe Apostol and Gheorghiu-Dej walked the fine line between Stalinism and reformism. Thus, Communist Romania did not steer away from Soviet policies until 1953, and Gheorghiu-Dej even got Joseph Stalin's approval for the removal of rival Ana Pauker on charges of right wing deviance and cosmopolitism, as well as for the elimination of Lucrețiu Pătrășcanu (a Romanian communist who was not completely loyal to the Party). After Stalin's death in 1953, the regime in Romania, headed by the same inner circle, was largely opposed to Nikita Khrushchev and de-Stalinization, while carrying out its own reforms and attempting to cut off most economic ties to the Soviet Union.\n\nApostol continued to be the favoured link between the Party (then named \"Partidul Muncitoresc Român\", PMR – \"Romanian Workers' Party\") and the trade unions. At the same time, he climbed steadily in the Party hierarchy. He joined the Central Committee in 1945 and the Politburo in 1948. He was Minister of Agriculture in 1953–54, a member of the Great National Assembly legislative body, whose President he also was from April 1948 to June 1948, September 1950 to April 1951 and March 1952 to June 1952, and recipient of several national honours. In 1954, Gheorghiu-Dej briefly gave up the first secretaryship of the party to Apostol, while remaining as prime minister. However, it was understood that Gheorghiu-Dej still held the real power, and he formally took back the party leadership in 1955.\n\nAccording to Apostol himself, an ailing Gheorghiu-Dej would have decided to appoint him as his successor in 1964: as confirmation, Apostol was sent to represent the Romanian government at Jawaharlal Nehru's funeral. Ion Gheorghe Maurer rallied the Party leadership around the neutral option represented by Ceaușescu, making sure that Apostol did not represent a threat upon Gheorghiu-Dej's death.\n\nAs a result, Apostol became deeply hostile to Ceaușescu's policies, stating that they went against the legacy of Gheorghiu-Dej (in 2003, he described the latter as \"democratic socialism\"). He refused to pay the allegiance demanded by the new leader. Protected by Emil Bodnăraș, he was advised to take refuge in a diplomatic career, becoming ambassador to Argentina, Uruguay and then Brazil.\n\nIn 1988, at the peak of Nicolae Ceaușescu's leadership, Apostol returned to Romania and contacted other communist figures of his generation (such as Alexandru Bârlădeanu, Silviu Brucan, Corneliu Mănescu, Constantin Pîrvulescu, and Grigore Răceanu) drafting an open letter of protest (dubbed \"Scrisoarea celor șase\" – \"Letter of the Six\"), directed at the government and made public (March 11, 1989) through the means of both Radio Free Europe and Voice of America. According to Apostol, several \"Letter\" contributors expressed their concern at having to use imperialist means of propaganda.\n\nAs a result, Apostol was placed under house arrest, being constantly interrogated, in the hope that he would reveal himself as a \"Soviet spy\". The Romanian Revolution, which the \"Letter\" had helped along, liberated him in December.\n\nApostol expressed his dislike for many aspects of post 1989 Romania. Apostol died on August 21, 2010 at the age of 97.\n\nApostol was married to (?) between 1935-1947. From 1944 he lived with, and later married, Melita Schaerf (d. 1991), a Romanian journalist. They separated in 1956 and subsequently divorced. In 1965, Apostol married his third wife, Adriana Codreanu (born 21 December 1934). He had three children - Geta (b. 1935, living in Romania), Gheorghe (b. 1945, living in Canada), and Sanda (b. 1952, living in Israel), four granddaughters who live in Romania, the United States and Australia and 4 greatgrandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25572765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25572765", "title": "Hila Levy", "text": "Hila Levy\n\nCaptain Hila Levy-Williams (born December 10, 1986) is an officer in the United States Air Force who was the first Puerto Rican to be awarded a Rhodes Scholarship. She was honored with a plaque that has her name, squadron name and graduation date, which was placed in the ballroom balcony of the Academy's hall of honor. The plaque recognizes Levy as the top former CAP cadet in the Class of 2008.\n\nLevy was born and raised in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico to a Puerto Rican father and an Israeli mother. She received both her primary and secondary education in the city of her birth. In 2004, Levy graduated from Saint John’s School in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Levy, who joined the Puerto Rico Wing of the Civil Air Patrol in 2000, reached the rank of Cadet Colonel and was the CAP's National Cadet of the Year in 2004. According to her citation, she earned the award for her outstanding academic performance, strong leadership skills, well-rounded extracurricular activities, and positive community involvement. Levy has stated that her experiences in the Civil Air Patrol served as an influential factor on her decision to apply for an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy.\n\nLevy received an appointment to attend the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs in Colorado. As a Cadet 1st Class and member of Squadron 9, she was among 28 cadets named Dean's Aces and who were honored for their academic achievements in the Fall semester of 2005 at the academy. Levy, who earned a 4.0 grade point average that semester, was one of five cadets that year to be named an Ace three times. On May 28, 2008, Levy earned her Bachelor of Science degree in Biology with 3 foreign language minors: Arabic, French and Spanish. She finished as the top graduate, earning the Outstanding Cadet in the Order of Graduation Award and a spot on the academy's 100-year Honor Roll. She received her Second Lieutenant's commission in the United States Air Force and awards from the Argentine Air Force and the Chilean Air Force for graduating first in her class during the US Air Force Academy Graduation and Commissioning Ceremony.\n\nIn 2007, Levy became the first Puerto Rican and the 35th Academy cadet to be awarded a Rhodes Scholarship. She was awarded the scholarship for the District 13 of Colorado. The Rhodes Scholarships were created in 1902 under the terms and conditions of the will of Cecil Rhodes, a British born African colonial pioneer.\n\nLevy was planning on using the scholarship to obtain two master's degrees of one year each, the first a Master’s of Science in Global Health Science and the second a Master’s of Science in Medical Anthropology at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom, however she was accepted to the Doctor of Philosophy (D.Phil.) in Public Health program (a 3-year degree which grants Oxford's Ph.D. equivalent) starting September 2008, under Oxford's Department of Public Health with Prof. Harold Jaffe as her supervisor.\n\nEarly in her first year at Oxford, she transferred to the History Faculty, where she obtained a Master of Studies in Historical Research in 2009 under military historian Dr. Robert Johnson, focusing on the formation of national armies in former French Equatorial Africa. Levy then obtained a Master of Science in Biology at Oxford, focusing on the population genetics of humans in southern Africa (under Dr. Cristian Capelli) and of penguins in the South Atlantic (under Dr. Tom Hart of the Institute of Zoology in London). Levy started her follow-on assignment in September 2010.\n\nLevy joined two other Rhodes Scholarship winners from the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy making it the second consecutive year that the military academies claimed three of only 32 recipients in the United States.\n\nLevy is fluent in Italian, Portuguese, Hebrew, French and Spanish and has published numerous articles related to language in the military and the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. Levy was promoted to First Lieutenant in May 2010. She is married to Brad Williams.\n\nLevy was honored with a plaque that has her name, squadron name and graduation date, which has been placed in the ballroom balcony of the Academy's hall of honor. The plaque recognizes Levy as the top former CAP cadet in the Class of 2008.\n\nAmong the Military and USAFA awards which Captain Hila Levy earned as a Cadet in the United States Air Force Academy are the following:\nBadges\nUSAFA Badges\n\n"}
{"id": "279898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=279898", "title": "Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt", "text": "Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt\n\nIbrahim Pasha (, 1789 – November 10, 1848) was the eldest son of Muhammad Ali, the Wāli and unrecognised Khedive of Egypt and Sudan. He served as a general in the Egyptian army that his father established during his reign, taking his first command of Egyptian forces when he was merely a teenager. In the final year of his life, he succeeded his still living father as ruler of Egypt and Sudan, due to the latter's ill health. His rule also extended over the other dominions that his father had brought under Egyptian rule, namely Syria, Hejaz, Morea, Thasos, and Crete. Ibrahim pre-deceased his father, dying 10 November 1848, only four months after acceding to the throne. Upon his father's death the following year, the Egyptian throne passed to Ibrahim's nephew (son of Muhammad Ali's second oldest son), Abbas.\n\nIbrahim remains one of the most celebrated members of the Muhammad Ali dynasty, particularly for his impressive military victories, including several crushing defeats of the Ottoman Empire. Among Egyptian historians, Ibrahim, his father Muhammad Ali, and his son Ismail the Magnificent are held in far higher esteem than other rulers from the dynasty, who were largely viewed as indolent and corrupt; this is largely the result of efforts by his grandson Fuad I of Egypt to ensure the positive portrayal of his paternal ancestors in the Royal Archives that he created, which were the primary source for Egyptian history from the 1920s until the 1970s. Today, a statue of Ibrahim occupies a prominent position in Egypt's capital, Cairo.\n\nHis Mother Emine, born at Nusretli in 1770 and died in Cairo 1824. She was the widow of Ottoman Turk Serezli Ali Bey, and a daughter of Major Ali Aga of Nusretli. Ibrahim was her first born. It is further known that he was born in the village of \"Nusratli\" (today Nikiforos), near the town of Drama, the Ottoman province of Rumelia, in what is now the eastern parts of Macedonian region in Greece.\n\nIn 1805, during his father's struggle to establish himself as ruler of Egypt, the adolescent Ibrahim, at 16, was sent as a hostage to the Ottoman captain Pasha (admiral). However, Ibrahim was allowed to return to Egypt once his father was recognised as Wāli of Egypt by the Ottoman Sultan, and had defeated the British military expedition of Major General Alexander Mackenzie Fraser.\n\nWhen Muhammad Ali went to Arabia to prosecute the war against the Ibn Saud in 1813, Ibrahim was left in command of Upper Egypt. He continued the war with the broken power of the Mameluks, whom he suppressed. In 1816, he succeeded his brother Tusun Pasha in command of the Egyptian forces in Arabia.\n\nMuhammad Ali had already begun to introduce European discipline into his army, and Ibrahim had probably received some training, but his first campaign was conducted more in the old Asiatic style than his later operations. The campaign lasted two years, and ended in the destruction of the House of Saud as a political power. Muhammad Ali landed at Yanbu, the port of Medina, on 1813. The holy cities had been recovered from the Saudis, and Ibrahim's task was to follow them into the desert of Nejd and destroy their fortresses. Such training as the Egyptian troops had received, and their artillery, gave them a marked superiority in the open field. But the difficulty of crossing the desert to the Saudis stronghold of Diriyah, some 400 miles east of Medina made the conquest a very arduous one. Ibrahim displayed great energy and tenacity, sharing all the hardships of his army, and never allowing himself to be discouraged by failure. By the end of September 1818, he had forced the Saudi leader to surrender, and had taken Diriyah, which he sacked.\n\nOn December 11, 1819 he made a triumphal entry into Cairo. After his return Ibrahim gave effective support to the Frenchman, Colonel Sève (Suleiman Pasha), who was employed to drill the army on the European model. Ibrahim set an example by submitting to be drilled as a recruit. In 1824, Muhammad Ali was appointed governor of the Morea (the Peloponnese peninsula in southern Greece) by Ottoman Sultan Mahmud II. Mahmud actually required the assistance of the well-trained Egyptian army against the contemporary Greek Revolution, which his forces had been unable to quell: in 1822, the Greeks had decisively defeated an army of some 30,000 men under Sultanzade Mahmud Dramali Pasha.\n\nIbrahim was sent to the Peloponnese with a squadron and an army of 17,000 men. The expedition sailed on July 4, 1824, but was for some months unable to do more than come and go between Rhodes and Crete. The fear of the Greek fire ships stopped his way to the Morea. When the Greek sailors mutinied from want of pay, Ibrahim was able to land at Modon on February 26, 1825. He remained in the Morea until the capitulation of October 1, 1828 was forced on him by the intervention of the Western powers.\n\nHe defeated the Greeks in the open field, and though the siege of Missolonghi proved costly to his own troops and to the Ottoman forces who operated with him, he brought it to a successful termination on April 24, 1826. But he was defeated in Mani three times in a row. The Greek guerrilla bands harassed his army, and in revenge he desolated the country and sent thousands of the inhabitants into slavery in Egypt. These measures of repression aroused great indignation in Europe and led to the intervention of the naval squadrons of the United Kingdom, the Restored Kingdom of France and Imperial Russia in the Battle of Navarino (October 20, 1827). Their victory was followed by the landing of a French expeditionary force in the so-called Morea expedition. By the terms of the capitulation of October 1, 1828, Ibrahim evacuated the country.\n\nIn 1831, his father's quarrel with the Porte having become flagrant, Ibrahim was sent to conquer Syria. He took Acre after a severe siege on May 27, 1832, occupied Damascus, defeated an Ottoman army at Homs on July 8 defeated another Ottoman army at Beilan on July 29, invaded Asia Minor, and finally routed the Grand Vizier Reşid Mehmed Pasha at Konya on December 21. It was there in Syria where he met Umar Tal the mystic, according to accounts Umar Tal healed the son of Ibrahim Pasha from a deadly fever. Umar Tal was inspired by Ibrahim Pasha, when Umar returned to Sokoto he followed the trends set by the Pasha. Umar Tal later became the commander of the Toucouleur in what is now Guinea, Senegal, and Mali.\n\nThe Convention of Kütahya on May 6 left Syria for a time in the hands of Muhammad Ali. Ibrahim was undoubtedly helped by Colonel Sève and the European officers in his army. After the campaign of 1832 and 1833, Ibrahim remained as governor in Syria. He might perhaps have administered successfully, but the exactions he was compelled to enforce by his father soon caused the popularity of his government to decline and provoked revolts. He was assisted by French officer Beaufort d'Hautpoul from 1834 to 1837, who was his Chief-of-Staff.\n\nDuring the 1834 peasants' revolt in Palestine, Ibrahim Pasha besieged the Transjordanian city of Al-Karak for 17 days, in pursuit of the revolt's leader Qasim al-Ahmad. After a hole was blasted into the town's walls in late August, Al-Karak was destroyed and the orchards outside the town were uprooted as punitive measures against the residents for hosting Qasim. Fearing further retaliation from Ibrahim Pasha, the rebel leaders were handed to the Egyptians. \n\nIn 1838, the Porte felt strong enough to renew the struggle, and war broke out once more. Ibrahim won his last victory for his father at Nezib on June 24, 1839. But the United Kingdom and the Austrian Empire intervened to preserve the integrity of the Ottoman Empire. Their squadrons cut his communications by sea with Egypt, a general revolt isolated him in Syria, and he was finally compelled to evacuate the country in February 1841.\n\nThe Karakis were to take their revenge from Ibrahim Pasha, 6 years later when the Pasha and his Egyptian army were driven out of Damascus. In 1841, as the Pasha and his troops took the Hajj road from Damascus, they were persistently attacked all the way from Qatraneh to Gaza. The weary army were killed and robbed, and by the time Ibrahim Pasha reached Gaza, the commander had lost most of his army, ammunition and animals.\n\nIbrahim spent the rest of his life in peace, but his health was ruined. In 1846 he paid a visit to Western Europe, where he was received with some respect and a great deal of curiosity. When his father became senile, Ibrahim was appointed Regent in his place. He held his regency from July till the time of his death on November 10, 1848.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57911557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57911557", "title": "Jabbar Collins", "text": "Jabbar Collins\n\nJabbar Collins (born July 8, 1972) is a wrongfully-convicted American man who served 16 years for a crime he did not commit. He was convicted of second-degree murder following the February 1994 death of Orthodox Rabbi Abraham Pollack in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Police charged 20-year-old Collins, who lived in a nearby housing project, with the murder. He was then sentenced by a jury in March 1995 to 34-years-to-life, sixteen of which he served.\n\nIn 2010, Collins was exonerated after a key witness recanted. The case settled in 2014 for $13 million. It exposed questionable policies under the former Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, and his right-hand man, Michael F. Vecchione.\n\nThe case has been used by the Honorable Frederic Block in support of a bill for the nation’s first Commission on Prosecutorial Conduct. Said bill is pending approval by Governor Andrew Cuomo.\n\nJabbar Collins was raised in Brooklyn, New York. At the time of the murder, he lived in a nearby housing project within the vicinity of the crime scene. A father of three, Collins was not able to finish high school but nonetheless earned a high school equivalency diploma. He had been enrolled in college classes before his arrest.\n\nCollins identifies as a Christian.\n\nRabbi Abraham Pollack was fatally shot in a failed robbery attempt while collecting rent in a Brooklyn apartment building in which he served as landlord. Those who knew him describe him as a devoted husband and father of nine who “treated everyone fairly” and “didn’t hassle you” about late rent. His generosity and fairness also extended to his workers; Pollack had allowed the janitor, a formerly homeless man, to live in the building’s basement in exchange for assisting the superintendent.\n\nOn a Sunday in early February 1994, Rabbi Pollack was shot to death at the age of thirty-five. The building superintendent witnessed the crime and ran to get assistance from the janitor, who intervened during the attack and was shot and seriously injured.\n\nApproximately two weeks after Rabbi Pollack’s murder, the janitor spoke to detectives and an assistant district attorney. He revealed that he had cut the perpetrator of the crime on his right side with a knife while intervening during the crime.\n\nCuriously, Collins did not exhibit any injury on his side when he voluntarily went to the 90th Precinct for a police interview twelve days following the murder.\n\nAlthough both the building super and janitor were eyewitnesses to the murder of Rabbi Pollack, neither witness positively identified Collins as the perpetrator in a police lineup. Furthermore, Collins has a strong alibi placing him away from the scene of the crime.\n\nEarly police reports indicate that a few witnesses had stated that the perpetrator was a local drug dealer who had been under recent investigation, alongside his brother, for another robbery. In the hour following the crime, the superintendent was shown photos of this drug dealer and his brother, whom he said resembled the man who murdered Rabbi Pollack. Another police report also states that that one of the brothers has a scar “on [the] stomach area” — the same area where the janitor had cut the perpetrator with a knife.\n\nRegardless of the fact that there was incriminating evidence against other suspects, the police continued to focus their investigation on Collins after they had received an anonymous phone call implicating him. The case built against Collins relied substantially on three witnesses, who were heavy drug users and whose accounts were not consistent with those of actual eyewitnesses.\n\nCollins was convicted in March 1995 after two witnesses testified to seeing him flee the crime scene. Another witness claimed that Collins had revealed his plans to rob Pollack as he was collecting rent.\n\nCollins was sentenced to 34-years-to-life in prison for murder in the second-degree. \n\nHowever, according to court documents, police were aware of exculpatory information pertaining to Collins.\n\nSure of his innocence, Collins began fighting his conviction while at the Green Haven Correctional Facility, a maximum security state prison. Upon requesting documents through the Freedom of Information Act, Collins soon realized that some of these materials had not been provided to his trial lawyer at the time of his conviction. He decided to contact the witnesses whose testimonies implicated him in the murder of Rabbi Pollack. Collins soon found discrepancies in their stories and realized that the men had \"received favorable treatment on pending cases in exchange for their testimony.\" Witness admitted to having been enticed or threatened by the prosecution. One of these witnesses later testified at a hearing that when he tried to recant his statement implicating Collins before trial, a prosecutor had threatened to hit him with a coffee table. Eventually, all three witnesses ultimately recanted their statements.\n\nCollins also uncovered important prosecutorial misconduct in that a prosecutor did not turn over potentially exculpatory evidence to the defense. Ultimately, the city admitted to the withholding of this exculpatory evidence at the time of the 1995 trial, conceding that Collins’ conviction and sentencing \"resulted from violations of his constitutional rights.\"\n\nAfter failing to receive relief in state court, Collins filed a petition for habeas corpus in federal court and enlisted the help of attorney Joel B. Rudin. The defense asked for an order prohibiting retrial because of the gross misconduct. Following a one-day evidentiary hearing, the Kings County District Attorney’s Office decided not to oppose that outcome, perhaps because the prosecution witnesses were too compromised to retry the case. Even so, the office continued to allege that Collins was guilty.\n\nIn June 2010, officials at the Brooklyn District Attorney's Office, who had previously stated that they would retry Collins, dismissed the case. A representative said at the time that the office still believed Collins to be the killer.\n\nSettlement was reached in July 2014. At the behest of Judge Frederic Block, who urged city and state officials to settle Collins’ wrongful conviction lawsuit before going to trial, the matter settled for $3 million under the Unjust Conviction Act.\n\nOn the topic of this agreement, Collins’ attorney, Joel B. Rudin, commented, “Three million dollars is a lot of money, but it is a fraction of what Jabbar Collins is entitled to for 15 horrendous years in a maximum security state prison. We look forward now to concentrating totally on his much larger claim for damages against New York City.”\n\nAs of July 2018, Collins is also suing former Brooklyn District Attorney Charles Hynes, former members of his office, and New York Police Department detectives for civil violations in federal court.\n\nThis lawsuit follows depositions conducted by Collins’ lawyer, Joel B. Rudin, in the murder case. During a December 2010 deposition, Hynes reportedly stated that when he ordered the case dismissed, he no longer believed that Collins was guilty and that there was no evidence connecting him to the murder. He also stated under questioning that there was “a failure of ethical responsibility by someone involved in the case.”\n\nThe case also brought to question the conduct of former Assistant District Attorney Michael F. Vecchione, who is renowned as an aggressive prosecutor who has overseen many high profile cases and co-author of the book, Friends of the Family. According to a New York Times article, Collins accused Vecchione of “playing God” in his threats against witnesses, elicitation of inaccurate testimonies, and withholding of exculpatory evidence. The misconduct which Collins believed deprived him of a fair trial, included the elicitation of a testimony from Angel Santos, one of the three witnesses who testified in the 1995 trial. In his testimony at the aborted habeas corpus hearing, Santos recounted coercion by Vecchione at the initial trial, stating that he was not only threatened but also held in jail for a week, until he testified.\n\nThe settlement spared the testimony of Vecchione who, in 2006, had signed a sworn affidavit dispeling notions of use of force or threats in obtaining witness testimonies. Highly criticized for his conduct in this case by District Attorney Charles Hynes’ successor Kenneth Thompson, though not officially related, Vecchione retired in December 2013.\n\nAccording to a New York Daily News opinions editorial, Federal Judge Frederic Block (who served in the settled civil case) was troubled by the lack of accountability in this matter. While he ruled that the city could be held liable, he was forced to dismiss the claims against the prosecutor and the district attorney of prosecutorial immunity. \n\nBlock notes, as of July 30, 2018, the state and city taxpayers have paid $13 million in settlements. Despite his \"egregious behavior,\" the prosecutor has neither been forced to pay for the settlement or face any punishment. Block maintains that it is not uncommon for wrongful conviction cases across New York to stem from “a whole array of prosecutorial misconduct” yet simultaneously cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars “for the many years the innocent defendants spent in jail.” Prosecutors, he notes, have curiously remained largely unscathed.\n\nWhile in prison, both of Collins’ grandmothers passed away.\n\nWhile incarcerated, Collins spent eight years helping his fellow inmates by acting as a legal research instructor. Since being released from prison, Collins has worked as a legal analyst at the Law Offices of Joel B. Rudin. He currently works as a legal analyst for Horizon Research Services\n\nIn 2017, Collins appeared on NY1 to discuss wrongful convictions with his legal partner Rita Dave.\n"}
{"id": "35302931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35302931", "title": "Jack Leach", "text": "Jack Leach\n\nMatthew Jack Leach (born 22 June 1991), known as Jack Leach, is an English cricketer who plays for Somerset County Cricket Club and England. A spin bowler, he bowls left-arm orthodox spin, and bats left-handed. He made his first-class debut for Cardiff MCC University against Somerset in 2012 before making his debut for Somerset in the tour match against the South Africans later in the summer.\n\nLeach was born in Taunton, England on 22 June 1991, and attended Trinity School, Bishop Fox's School and Richard Huish College all in Taunton. He used to be employed to park trolleys at a branch of Sainsbury's supermarket in Taunton. At the age of 14, Leach was diagnosed with Crohn's disease.\n\nLeach graduated from the Somerset County Cricket Club academy in the summer of 2010, prior to signing a professional contract with Somerset. Leach represented Dorset County Cricket Club in the 2010 Minor Counties Cricket Championship, and bowled his side to victory in the final against Lincolnshire taking 6/21 in their second innings. Leach completed his degree at the University of Wales Institute, Cardiff in sports coaching. Whilst attending university Leach represented Cardiff MCCU in 2011 and 2012 making his first-class debut against his county side Somerset in March 2012, bowling 41 overs but failing to take a wicket as Somerset amassed 642/3d.\n\nLeach made his Somerset debut in a two-day match against the touring South Africans in July 2012, claiming the prized wicket of Hashim Amla. He made his first-class debut for Somerset in the 2012 County Championship match against Lancashire in August 2012, the rain affected match finished as a draw with Leach claiming Kyle Hogg as his maiden first-class wicket. Further opportunities in the first team were limited for the rest of the 2012 season with the signing of Pakistani spinner Abdur Rehman, and Leach only featured in one further County Championship match and three matches in the 2012 Clydesdale Bank 40, but ended the season ninth in the national first-class averages with 12 wickets at 18.83 runs apiece. Leach spent the 2012–13 winter playing grade cricket for Valley District Cricket Club in Brisbane, Australia, helping his side to win the T20 competition.\n\nLeach returned to Somerset for pre-season on a summer contract and played his first Championship game of the season against Warwickshire due to an injury to first choice spinner George Dockrell; he took his maiden five-wicket haul in the second innings, with 24 of his 44 overs being maidens.\n\nOn 14 February 2018, while playing for the England Lions against West Indies A, Leach achieved match figures of 8-110: in doing so, he beat the previous best figures by an England Lions spinner (Graeme Swann's 8-156).\n\nOn 16 March 2018 he was called up to England's Test squad for the tour of New Zealand as an injury replacement for Mason Crane. He made his debut in the second Test in Christchurch.\n\nIn an unusual circumstance, with 1 over left to play during a Test match against Sri Lanka on 15 November 2018, Jack Leach opened England's innings as a nightwatchman, surviving till stumps. He was dismissed for 1 off 11 balls the next morning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53834774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53834774", "title": "Jacobo Grinberg", "text": "Jacobo Grinberg\n\nJacobo Grinberg-Zylberbaum is/was a Mexican neurophysiologist, writer and psychologist. He studied Mexican shamanism, Eastern disciplines, meditation, and telepathy through the scientific method. He wrote more than 50 books about these subjects. Jacobo disappeared in December 1994.\n\nJacobo Grinberg-Zylberbaum was born in Mexico City in 1946. Grinberg decided to study the human mind when he was 12 years old, after his mother died from a stroke. He studied psychology at the Science Faculty of UNAM. In 1970, he went to New York City to study psychophysiology at the Brain Research Institute. He earned a Ph.D. at the E. Roy John Laboratory. His Ph.D. focuses on the electrophysiological effects of geometric stimuli on the human brain.\n\nWhen he went back to Mexico, he founded a laboratory of psychophysiology at the Universidad Anáhuac. He installed another laboratory of this kind in UNAM in the late 1970s. He founded the Instituto Nacional para el Estudio de la Conciencia (INPEC) in 1987, financed by UNAM and CONACYT. Jacobo published several of his books through INPEC. Grinberg wrote more than 50 books about brain activity, witchcraft, shamanism, telepathy, and meditation.\n\nJacobo tended to put his reputation as a scientist in danger when he tried to use the scientific method in shamanism studies. He combined the two in his professional work, always trying to understand the “magic world.” It is said that while his work exhibited the scientific basis for telepathy, it was often rejected by fellow scientists. \n\nComments by Guerzon\n- you could provide information about a specific book or other research/accomplishments he's known for\n- so far so good!\nSince December 8, 1994, Jacobo Grinberg has been missing. On December 12, his family prepared a party for him to celebrate his 48th birthday, but he did not show up. It was common for him to make spontaneous travels or just not answer his phone for days, which is why his disappearance did not seem odd to his family in the beginning. There are many conspiracies surrounding Jacobo's disappearance. It has been speculated that NASA or the CIA kidnapped him after the U.S military became interested in his research on the relationship between metaphysical worlds and humans and tried to seize his work.\n\nGrinberg's sintergy theory states that there is a continuous space of energy and the common human can only perceive a part of it. The result of this process is what everyone understand as \"reality.\" This theory tries to answer the question of the creation of the experience. It is based on years of brain experiments and consciousness studies. The book where it is mentioned, \"El Cerebro Consciente,\" was translated into seven languages.\n\nComments by Guerzon\n- what is Grinberg's expertise or contributions about the Sintergy Theory \n\n"}
{"id": "37166304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37166304", "title": "Jakub Polák (anarchist)", "text": "Jakub Polák (anarchist)\n\nJakub Polák (1 September 1952 – 25 September 2012) was a Czech anarchist and anti-racism activist. Polák was involved particularly in Roma rights and squatters' rights issues.\n\nPolák was born in Karlovy Vary and grew up in Marxist–Leninist Czechoslovakia. He became a dissident in his teens, when he became involved in the Prague Spring of 1968, and as a consequence he was not permitted to attend university. He took part in various dissident and underground movement activities. He was a co-founder of the 1989 strike committee that led to the Velvet Revolution. He was also involved with the Czech branch of the Movement for Civil Society.\n\nAfter the fall of the Eastern Bloc, Polák openly founded numerous anarchist organizations and publications. He joined the \"Levá alternativa\" (\"LA\"; transl. \"Left Alternative\"), eventually becoming a member of its anarchist wing. The group split, with the anarchist LA becoming the Československé anarchistické sdružení (ČAS; transl. Czechoslovak Anarchist Association). In 1991, Polák and others from ČAS founded the \"A-Kontra\" magazine, which became the central organ of the Czech anarchist movement in the 1990s and early 2000s. Polák remained involved with \"A-Kontra\" until his death, working as editor-in-chief with the magazine.\n\nPolák was involved in numerous anti-racist organizations and activities. He worked as \"attorney-in-fact\" with numerous victims of racist and neo-Nazi attacks, including in the case of Tibor Danihel, a victim of a 1993 attack by racist skinheads in Písek, South Bohemia, which he eventually brought to the Czech Supreme Court. Polák was also instrumental in the cases of the 1994 murder of Zdeněk Čepela in Tanvald; the 1998 murder of Milan Lacek in Orlová; a 1998 racist skinhead campaign in České Budějovice; the 2001 murder of Ota Absolon in Svitavy; and a 2010 attack by neo-Nazis in Benešov. He also served as an editor of various Romani publications, including the \"Romano gendalos\" (transl. \"Romani Mirror\") between 1993 and 1995, and with a news server Romea.cz until the end of his life. Polák was himself attacked in August, 1999, in a restaurant in Karvina, where he was meeting government minister Jana Chalupova regarding a 1998 skinhead murder of a Romani.\n\nPolák was active in housing and squatters rights movements throughout his life. In 1990, he co-founded a squat on Pplk. Sochora street in Prague. He remained active in squatters' rights movements throughout the rest of his life. Even in the last months of his life, while ill with cancer, Polák worked with Roma people in a case involving their eviction and relocation from their home in Přednádraží, a neighborhood (sometimes described as a ghetto or shantytown) in Ostrava-Privoz.\n\nJakub Polák died on Tuesday 25 September 2012, from cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "27891387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27891387", "title": "James Thomas Harrison", "text": "James Thomas Harrison\n\nJames Thomas Harrison (November 30, 1811 – May 22, 1879) was an American politician who served as a Deputy from Mississippi to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States from 1861 to 1862.\n\nJames Thomas Harrison was born in Pendleton, South Carolina. He later moved to Columbus, Mississippi. He was a descendant of Virginia Governor and United States Declaration of Independence signatory Benjamin Harrison V (1726–1791). His daughter, Regina, married Lieutenant-General Stephen D. Lee in 1865.\n\n"}
{"id": "12204754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12204754", "title": "Jane and Michael Stern", "text": "Jane and Michael Stern\n\nJane Grossman Stern and Michael Stern (both born 1946) are American writers who specialize in books about travel, food, and popular culture. They are best known for their \"Roadfood\" books, website, and magazine columns, in which they find road food restaurants serving classic American regional specialties and review them. Starting their hunt for regional American food in the early 1970s they were the first food writers to regard this food as being as worthy to report on as the haute cuisine of other nations. \n\nSince the Sterns began documenting regional American food in the 1970s many other writers and television personalities have used their pioneering work as inspiration. In addition to their early work with regional American food the Sterns' book \"Square Meals\" (Knopf 1985) put \"comfort foods\" like mac and cheese, meatloaf, and mashed potatoes on the culinary map. \"Square Meals\" did an audacious reverse spin on the tricked up and precious nouvelle cuisine that was beloved by food critics at that time. \n\nJane Grossman grew up in New York City, where she attended the Walden School and received a BFA in graphic design at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. Michael Stern grew up in Winnetka, Illinois, and graduated from the University of Michigan in 1968. They met as graduate students in art at Yale University and their first date, at Pepe's Pizza in New Haven, had a food focus. The couple married in 1970. The following year, Jane earned an MFA in painting from Yale and Michael changed schools and earned an MFA from Columbia University in film. Neither found work in their fields of study.\n\nAfter a short stint of producing documentaries for WNBC, a teaching job at Hunter College and another at Wesleyan University they began work on the book that eventually became the first \"Roadfood\". The book was conceived as a book on \"truck-stop dining,\" funded with an advance from a publisher. The Sterns set out in their car to travel through the United States and eat up to 12 meals daily at diners and local cafes. The resulting first edition of \"Roadfood\" was published in 1977; the most recent edition was released in 2017.\n\nIn addition to their food writing, the Sterns have written books on American popular culture, including \"The New York Times\" bestselling \"Elvis World\" (1987) and \"The Encyclopaedia of Bad Taste\" (1990). In all, they have written over 30 books. They were staff writers for \"Gourmet\" magazine for 18 years, have written for \"The New Yorker\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", and are now contributing editors at \"Saveur\". \n\nThey are regular guests on American Public Media's public radio program, \"The Splendid Table\". They have won numerous awards, including James Beard awards, and were inducted into Who's Who of Food and Beverage in America in 1992. The Sterns founded Roadfood.com; the site was sold to Fexy Media in 2016. After the sale, the Sterns remained in charge of editorial content of their website.\n\nIn 2003, Jane Stern published \"Ambulance Girl: How I Saved Myself by Becoming an EMT\", a memoir in which she described suffering from severe clinical depression when she was in her early 50s and overcame her depression by training and working as an emergency medical technician in Connecticut. In 2005 the book was made into a television movie, \"Ambulance Girl\", for which actress Kathy Bates was nominated for an Emmy Award. The Sterns wrote a joint memoir, \"Two for the Road: Our Love Affair With American Food\", in 2006. \n\nThe couple divorced in 2008; they still write as a team. She now lives in Ridgefield, Connecticut; he and his present wife, Linda, reside in Aiken, South Carolina. \n\nIn 2011 the former couple published \"The Lexicon of Real American Food\", and Jane Stern published a book on her little known but long-standing career as a tarot card reader. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1098157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1098157", "title": "Jimmy Calderwood", "text": "Jimmy Calderwood\n\nJames Calderwood (born 28 February 1955) is a Scottish former football player and manager. Calderwood played for Birmingham City and Dutch clubs Sparta Rotterdam, Willem II Tilburg, Roda JC and Heracles Almelo. After retiring as a player, Calderwood stayed in the Netherlands and became a coach, becoming a manager of Willem II Tilburg and NEC Nijmegen.\n\nHe returned to his native Scotland in 1999 to become manager of Dunfermline Athletic, guiding them to the 2004 Scottish Cup Final. Calderwood left Dunfermline that summer to become manager of Aberdeen, a position he held for five seasons. Aberdeen performed relatively well in the SPL under Calderwood and reached the last 32 of the 2007–08 UEFA Cup, but suffered a number of domestic cup defeats by lower league opponents. He then had brief stints with Kilmarnock and Ross County, helping each club retain their league status. Calderwood returned to the Netherlands in March 2012, with Go Ahead Eagles.\n\nIn January 2014, Calderwood spent just under a month as manager of De Graafschap before resigning. Calderwood cited the sale of several of De Graafschap's key players without adequate replacement as the reason for his resignation from the post. In July 2016, Calderwood was appointed to the board of directors at Cowdenbeath.\n\nIn August 2017, Calderwood revealed that he has been battling earlier-onset dementia for the past two years and is being treated for the condition.\n\nBorn in Govan, Glasgow, Calderwood was raised in the Castlemilk housing scheme in the city where he attended Grange Secondary School; he played in youth teams with Ricky Sbragia who also became a footballer and later a manager, and also played at schoolboy level with future Scotland captain Willie Miller.\n\nHe started his professional career with Birmingham City as an apprentice in 1971, making his first team debut against Stoke City in 1972 (Sbragia joined him a year later). He made 159 appearances for the club before spending a short time on loan at Cambridge United in 1979. His contract with Birmingham was cancelled at the end of the 1979–80 season, and he accepted an offer to move to the Netherlands, where he spent almost 10 years playing for Sparta Rotterdam, Willem II Tilburg, Roda JC and Heracles Almelo before retiring in 1989.\n\nCalderwood first became a coach in 1991, of amateur club Rietvogels of Almelo. A year later he became an assistant coach of professional club FC Zwolle, before moving in 1993 to Cambuur Leeuwarden. He returned to Willem II Tilburg in 1995, initially as assistant coach before becoming the manager of the club a year later. A year later, he moving to the managerial position at NEC Nijmegen.\n\nAfter a two-year spell with NEC, Scottish First Division side Dunfermline Athletic moved to make him their new manager. Calderwood spent five seasons at East End Park, where he led the club to promotion to the SPL in his first season in charge. He also led them to their highest ever SPL position, finishing fourth in 2003–04. That season the side also reached the 2004 Scottish Cup Final, guaranteeing their return to European competition for the first time in 35 years as opponents Celtic had already earned Champions League qualification.\n\nIn the summer of 2004 Willie Miller, returning to Pittodrie as director of football, brought Calderwood to Aberdeen to replace Steve Paterson as manager. Calderwood oversaw an improvement in Aberdeen's fortunes on the playing field. They narrowly missed out on qualifying for European competition in 2004–05 and 2005–06 but finished the 2006–07 league campaign in third place, ensuring UEFA Cup qualification. However, there was humiliation for his team when they were eliminated from the 2006–07 Scottish League Cup by the amateur club Queen's Park.\n\nIn December 2007, Calderwood led Aberdeen to the last 32 of European competition for the first time since 1986 with a surprising 4–0 demolition of FC Copenhagen at Pittodrie. With this great achievement, the Dons were rewarded by drawing FC Bayern Munich. Calderwood's team drew 2–2 with Bayern at Pittodrie on 14 February 2008, but the Germans pulled off a convincing 5–1 win the following week. Calderwood signed a -year contract to end a month of speculation about his future, along with assistant manager Jimmy Nicholl and coach Sandy Clark.\n\nCalderwood took Aberdeen to the 2007–08 Scottish Cup semi final, where they lost 4–3 to Dumfries First Division side, Queen of the South. This was despite two goals and an assist from Barry Nicholson playing against his hometown club.\n\nThe 2008–09 season saw Calderwood come in for some stern criticism following the club's poor start to the campaign. The Dons failed to win any of their opening four home matches, and were beaten 4–2 by Kilmarnock in the League Cup. Fans became impatient with some claiming it was time for a fresh start just as the team recovered form and were in the race for third place. On 18 January 2009 Calderwood led Aberdeen to a memorable 4–2 victory over Celtic that propelled Aberdeen to third in the league. However, just three league wins followed in the next 16 and Calderwood left the club \"by mutual consent\" on 24 May 2009, after the team had qualified for a place in the UEFA Europa League with a 2–1 victory over Hibernian.\n\nCalderwood was appointed manager of Kilmarnock on 14 January 2010, succeeding Jim Jefferies. He agreed to a contract with the club until the end of the 2009–10 season. Calderwood managed to secure Kilmarnock's SPL status for another season, but left the club in the summer after disagreeing with chairman Michael Johnston about the player and coaching budgets.\n\nOn 16 February 2011, Calderwood agreed to fill the managerial post at First Division club Ross County until the end of the season.\n\nCalderwood was appointed coach of Go Ahead Eagles in the Eerste Divisie on 30 March 2012. He left the Deventer club after they were knocked out of the promotion play-offs by FC Den Bosch after the second leg of their double-header on May 13. In two separate interviews with John Hunt for The Scottish Sun, Calderwood acknowledged that he knew his tenure at Go Ahead Eagles was only until the end of the season/play-offs.\n\nCalderwood was appointed manager of De Graafschap in January 2014. He left the club after less than a month in the job, furious at the sale of two key players before the start of the season. His decision to quit was not well received by the players, with club captain Edwin Linssen saying: \"When we were told, we were very depressed. It’s not good, it’s a sad day for the club.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45111482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45111482", "title": "Johanan Luria", "text": "Johanan Luria\n\nJohanan ben Aaron ben Nathanael Luria () was an Alsatian Talmudist. He lived successively at Niedernheim and Strasburg at the end of the fifteenth century and in the beginning of the sixteenth. After having studied for many years in German \"yeshivot\", he returned to Alsace and settled in Strasburg, where he founded a \"yeshiva\" by permission of the government. Luria was the author of an ethical work entitled \"\"Hadrakah\" (Cracow, c. 1579) and of \"Meshibat Nefesh\" (Neubauer, \"Catalogue of the Hebrew MSS. in the Bodleian Library\"\" No. 257), an \"aggadic\" and mystical commentary on the Pentateuch, founded on Rashi. To this commentary was appended a dissertation in which Luria refuted the arguments advanced by Christians against Judaism.\n\nOne of his descendants was Elijah Loans.\n"}
{"id": "692656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692656", "title": "Larenz Tate", "text": "Larenz Tate\n\nLarenz Tate (born September 8, 1975) is an American film and television actor. Tate is best known for his roles as Peter Waters in \"Crash\" and as O-Dog in the 1993 teen hood drama film, \"Menace II Society\". Tate's other films include \"Dead Presidents\", \"Love Jones\", \"Why Do Fools Fall in Love\", \"A Man Apart\", \"Waist Deep\", \"Biker Boyz\", and \"Ray\".\n\nLarenz Tate was born on Chicago, Illinois' west side, in a middle-class suburb, to Peggy and Larry Tate. Tate is the youngest of three siblings (his two brothers, Larron and Lahmard, are also actors) whose family moved to California when he was 4 years old. Convinced by their parents to enter a drama program at the Inner City Cultural Center, the trio did not take the lessons seriously until classmate Malcolm-Jamal Warner's ascent to fame after being cast on the sitcom \"The Cosby Show\". Subsequently, realizing that they could parlay their efforts into a tangible form of success, the siblings began to receive small roles and in 1985, Tate made his small-screen debut in an episode of \"The New Twilight Zone\". Tate attended Palmdale High School, graduating in 1993.\n\nFollowing appearances in such television series as \"21 Jump Street\" and \"The Wonder Years\", Tate was cast in the television movie \"The Women of Brewster Place\" before receiving the recurring role of Steve Urkel's nemesis, Willie Fuffner, in the family comedy series \"Family Matters\" (1989). He was also a cast member on the CBS series \"The Royal Family\", starring Redd Foxx and Della Reese, which ended prematurely after Redd Foxx died. In the video game \"187 Ride or Die\", Tate voices the main character, Buck.\n\nFollowing numerous small-screen roles, offers began pouring in for Tate, and in late 1992, collaborative filmmaking siblings Albert and Allen Hughes approached him to star in their debut feature \"Menace II Society\". The film found Tate channeling his substantial energy into creating \"O-Dog\", a trigger-happy teenager. Following up with the little-seen but often-praised television series \"South Central\", Tate would later appear in the family comedy-drama \"The Inkwell\" (1994) before re-teaming with the Hughes brothers for \"Dead Presidents\" (1995) and taking on the role of a love-stricken young poet in the romantic drama \"Love Jones\" (1997). Larenz Tate also played the role of Kenny in \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\" in the episode \"That's No Lady, That's My Cousin\".\n\nThere followed roles in \"The Postman\" (as the automotively monikered Ford Lincoln Mercury), the Frankie Lymon biopic \"Why Do Fools Fall in Love\" (1998, with Tate as Lymon), and 2000's \"Love Come Down\". Though a big theatrical release had eluded Tate for the first few years of the millennial turnover, Tate would soon turn up opposite Laurence Fishburne in the high-octane but critically derided \"Biker Boyz\" (2003) \"A Man Apart\" (2003), \"Crash\" (2004), as music legend Quincy Jones in \"Ray\" (2004), and \"Waist Deep\" (2006). Larenz was also featured in R&B singer Ashanti's 2003 released music video \"Rain on Me\", where he played the jealous, abusive spouse of Ashanti. The video touched on the subject of domestic abuse. He also starred as part of the main cast in season's 4-7 of FX's \"Rescue Me\" as Bart \"Black Shawn\" Johnston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981696", "title": "Lazarus and Joannes Baptista Colloredo", "text": "Lazarus and Joannes Baptista Colloredo\n\nLazarus Colloredo and Joannes Baptista Colloredo (1617 – after 1646) were Italian conjoined twins who toured in 17th-century Europe. They were born in Genoa, Italy.\n\nThe upper body and left leg of Joannes Baptista (named after John the Baptist) stuck out of his mobile brother Lazarus. He did not speak and kept his eyes closed and mouth open all the time and was a parasitic twin. According to a later account by Copenhagen anatomist Thomas Bartholinus, if someone pushed the breast of Joannes Baptista, he moved his hands, ears and lips.\n\nTo make a living, Lazarus toured around Europe and visited at least Basel, Switzerland and Copenhagen, Denmark before he arrived in Scotland in 1642 and later visited the court of Charles I of England.\n\nThey also visited Gdańsk, Turkey and Denmark, and toured Germany and Italy in 1646.\n\nContemporary accounts described Lazarus as courteous and handsome but for his brother who just dangled before him. When Lazarus was not exhibiting himself, he covered his brother with his cloak to avoid unnecessary attention.\n\nLater accounts claim that Lazarus married and sired several children, none with his condition. His engraved portrait depicts him in a costume of a courtier of the period of the House of Stuart.\n\nThe brothers' exact date of death is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "30871636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871636", "title": "List of Alsatians and Lotharingians", "text": "List of Alsatians and Lotharingians\n\nThis is an incomplete list of well-known Alsatians and Lorrainians (people from the region of Alsace and the region of Lorraine).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40138183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40138183", "title": "List of South Australian of the Year Award recipients", "text": "List of South Australian of the Year Award recipients\n\nThe Australian of the Year Award is given annually on Australia Day. The national award is a major public event, televised nationwide. The Award also operates at the State level. This page lists winners of the South Australia state award, who are automatically finalists in the national competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "46193011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46193011", "title": "List of coin collectors", "text": "List of coin collectors\n\nThe first coin collector is said to have been Augustus. During the Renaissance, it became a fad among some members of the privileged classes, especially kings and queens.\n\nA coin collector is different from a numismatist, which is someone who studies coins. Many collectors are also numismatists, but some are not. Likewise, not all numismatists collect coins themselves.\n"}
{"id": "25523599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25523599", "title": "Mabel Digby", "text": "Mabel Digby\n\nMabel Digby, Lady of Dromana and Decies (dates of birth and death unknown) was an Anglo-Irish noblewoman being the eldest daughter of Sir Robert Digby and Lettice FitzGerald, 1st Baroness Offaly. She was the wife of Sir Gerald FitzGerald, Lord of Dromana and Decies. In 1642, during an Irish rebellion, she was openly sympathetic to the Irish and entertained them at Dromana Castle. She later handed the castle over to them.\n\nMabel was born on an unknown date sometime after 1598 in Coleshill, Warwickshire, England, the eldest daughter and one of the ten children of Sir Robert Digby and Lettice FitzGerald, \"suo jure\" 1st Baroness Offaly. Her eldest brother was Robert Digby, 1st Baron Digby, and another brother was Essex Digby, Bishop of Dromore.\n\nShe married her first husband Sir Gerald FitzGerald, Lord of Dromana and Decies on an unknown date. He was the son and heir of Sir John Og FitzGerald, Lord of Dromana and Decies, and Elinor Butler. She was described as having been \"suitably English and Protestant\". She was said to have dominated Sir Gerald. They made their principal residence at Dromana Castle, County Waterford, and together had three children:\n\nUpon the death of her husband on 6 August 1643, Mabel married secondly Donagh O'Brien of Arragh.\n\nOn 23 October 1641, a major Irish rebellion broke out in Ulster, and by December had spread to County Waterford. (See main article: Irish rebellion of 1641).\n\nAlthough her husband sided with the English, Mabel showed herself sympathetic to the Irish rebels and in 1642 entertained them at Dromana Castle serving them \"beefes, muttons, bread and beere\". In mid-September 1642, she handed the castle over to them; however, it was shortly afterward besieged and captured by the English.\n\nMabel died on an unknown date at Dromana. Her granddaughter, Katherine, inherited the entire Dromana estate upon the death of Mabel's only son in 1664. The FitzGeralds had managed to keep their estates intact during the Cromwellian settlements due to their Protestant religion and the influence of Mabel's Parliamentarian son-in-law Richard Franklyn, who served as a major in Oliver Cromwell's army.\n"}
{"id": "29219105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29219105", "title": "Mark Jenkin", "text": "Mark Jenkin\n\nMark Jenkin is a British filmmaker, film editor and screenwriter based in Cornwall.\n\nMark Jenkin first came to notice when he won the Frank Copplestone First Time Director Award at The Celtic Film & Television Festival in 2002 for his debut film Golden Burn. He followed this success with numerous award-winning documentaries, shorts and low-budget feature films including The Man Who Needed a Traffic Light, The Rabbit and The Lobsterman, a documentary on the life of Cornish playwright Nick Darke. His 2007 feature film The Midnight Drives was described by Derek Malcolm, film critic for \"The Evening Standard\" as \"A moving film about parentage with an exceptional performance from Colin Holt at its centre\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31699942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31699942", "title": "Michał Sopoćko", "text": "Michał Sopoćko\n\nBlessed Michael (in Polish: Michał) Sopoćko (; November 1, 1888 – February 15, 1975) was a Roman Catholic priest and professor at Vilnius University. He is best known as the spiritual director of Saint Faustina Kowalska.\n\nHe was born in 1888 in Juszewszczyzna (also known as Nowosady) near Valozhyn in present-day Belarus. He entered Vilnius Priest Seminary in 1910 and was ordained in 1914. He was a priest in Vilnius (1914–1918), then a chaplain in the army in Warsaw and Vilnius during World War I. After obtaining his doctorate in theology in 1926 he became the spiritual director at the seminary in Vilnius. and 1928 professor of pastoral theology at Stefan Batory University in Vilnius.\n\nFather Sopoćko was very supportive of the Divine Mercy devotion of Faustina Kowalska and in her diary (Notebook V, item 1238) she stated: \"This priest is a great soul, entirely filled with God.\" Since 1931 Faustina had been trying (without success) to find someone to paint the \"Divine Mercy image\" until Sopoćko became her confessor in the middle of 1933. By January 1934 Sopocko arranged for the artist Eugeniusz Kazimirowski (who was also a professor at the university) to paint the image.\n\nOn Friday April 26, 1935 Sopoćko delivered the first sermon ever on the Divine Mercy - and Faustina attended the sermon. The first Mass during which the Divine Mercy image was displayed was on April 28, 1935, the Divine Mercy Sunday (the first after Easter). Sopoćko managed to obtain permission to place the Divine Mercy image within the Gate of Dawn in Vilnius as he celebrated the Mass that Sunday.\n\nIn the summer of 1936 Sopoćko wrote the first brochure on the Divine Mercy devotion and\nobtained the imprimatur of Archbishop Jałbrzykowski for it. The brochure carried the Divine Mercy image on the cover.\n\nFaustina used to regard him as a saint: \"This priest is a great soul who is completely filled with God\" (\"Diary\" 1238). \"Thanks to his effort a new light will shine in God's Church for the salvation of souls. […] I have not met such faithfulness to God as this soul features\" (1390). \"This soul, so humble, was able to withstand all storms and has not get discouraged with obstacles, but answered faithfully to God's call\" (1586).\n\nJesus used to have similar opinion: \"This is a priest according to My heart; his efforts are pleasant to Me. […] Through him I disseminate consolations for suffering, worried souls; through him I have been well pleased to proclaim the worship to My mercy\" (1256). \"His thought is closely connected with My thought, so be calm about My work; I will not allow him to mistake, and you, do not do anything without his permission\" (1408).\n\nIn 1942, during World War II Sopoćko and other professors and students had to go into hiding near Vilnius for about two years. However, he used this time to establish a new religious congregation based on the Divine Mercy messages reported by Faustina Kowalska. After the War, Sopoćko wrote the constitution for the congregation and helped the formation of what is now Zgromadzenie Sióstr Jezusa Miłosiernego.\n\nIn an entry in on February 8, 1935, (Notebook I, item 378) Faustina had written that the Divine Mercy devotion would be suppressed for some time after her death, but would be accepted again, although Sopoćko would suffer for it. In 1959 the Vatican forbade the Divine Mercy devotion and censured Sopoćko. But in 1965 Karol Wojtyła, then Archbishop of Kraków and later Pope John Paul II opened a new investigation and submitted documents in 1968, which resulted in the reversal of the ban in 1978.\n\nAfter the Second World War, when the boundaries of Poland changed so much, Sopoćko left Vilnius. Until 1962 he has been a professor of pastoral theology at the seminary in Białystok. That time he wrote a book \"Miłosierdzie Boga w dziełach Jego\" (\"Mercy of God in His works\") in four volumes. He died on February 15, 1975 in Białystok, Poland, and was buried there. In 1988 his remains were transferred to the Church of Divine Mercy in Białostoczek.\n\nThe decisive factor in obtaining God’s Mercy is trust. Trust is the expectation of someone’s help. It does not constitute a separate virtue, but is an essential condition of the virtue of hope, and an integral part of the virtues of fortitude and generosity. Because trust springs from faith, it strengthens hope and love, and is, moreover, linked up, in one way or another, with the moral virtues. It may, therefore, be called the basis on which the theological virtues unite with the moral. The moral virtues, originally natural, become supernatural if we practice them with trust in God’s help.\n\nHis case for beatification was started at the Vatican in 1987. In 2004, Pope John Paul II issued a decree on the virtues of Father Sopoćko. In December 2007, Pope Benedict XVI approved of a miracle through his intercession. His solemn beatification took place on Sunday September 28, 2008 at the Sanctuary of Divine Mercy in Białystok.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24412956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24412956", "title": "Natwarlal", "text": "Natwarlal\n\nMithilesh Kumar Srivastava, better known as Natwarlal (1912–2009), was a noted Indian con man known for having repeatedly \"sold\" the Taj Mahal, the Red Fort, and the Rashtrapati Bhavan and also the Parliament House of India along with its sitting members.\n\nHe was born in village in siwan, by profession he was a lawyer before he became a con man.\n\nHe duped hundreds of people of crores of rupees and used more than 50 aliases to disguise himself. He was a master of disguises and used novel ideas to cheat people. He was also a master in forging signatures of famous personalities. He is also said to have cheated a number of industrialists including the Tatas, the Birlas and also Dhirubhai Ambani taking from them huge sums of money in cash, posing as a social worker or needy person. He also duped many shop-owners of lakhs of rupees, paying them by cheque and demand drafts, which were later found to be forged.\n\nNatwarlal was wanted in more than 100 cases and by the police of 8 states.\n\nNatwarlal was arrested nine times but every time he was able to break out of jail and escape. He was convicted for 14 cases of forgery and was sentenced for 113 years, but he hardly spent 20 years in prison.The last time he was arrested was in 1996 and was 84 years old at that time. But he managed again to give the police the slip and was last seen by authorities on June 24, 1996; when the wheelchair-using octogenarian vanished while being transported from prison to a hospital for treatment. He disappeared at New Delhi railway station, when he was being taken to AIIMS, under police escort from Kanpur jail for his treatment, after which he was never seen again.\n\nIn 2009, his lawyer requested that more than 100 charges pending against Natwarlal be dropped claiming that Natwarlal died on Saturday July 25, 2009. However, Natwarlal's brother, Ganga Prasad Srivastava, subsequently claimed to have cremated him in 1996 at Ranchi. So the actual time and year of death is yet uncertain. In the finest Natwarlal fashion, he “died” twice, 13 years apart, living up to his legend. \n\nHe had 2 wives. He is survived by one daughter, who lives in Ranchi and is married to a soldier. His younger brother, Ganga Prasad Shrivastav lives in Gopalganj.\n\nHis exploits are often compared with Frank Abagnale and Victor Lustig.\n\n\"Jurm\" is a popular weekly crime based television programme aired by Aaj Tak, based on episodes of his life and a story that was broadcast in 2004.\n\nThe people of his native village Bangra in Bihar take pride in the fact that he belonged to their village and have decided to put up a statue of him as his monument, at the place where his house once stood.\n\nWhile his house is said to have been demolished by the British, the land still belongs to the family.\n\nHe is considered to be the greatest conman in Indian history and his legend lives on as any conman who pulls off particularly smart cons is called Natwarlal in India. Many fraudsters say they were inspired by the life of Natwarlal.\n"}
{"id": "43688462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43688462", "title": "Nego do Borel", "text": "Nego do Borel\n\nNego do Borel, artistic name of Leno Maycon Viana Gomes (born 10 July 1992) is Brazilian singer of funk ostentação. He is known for hits, \"Os Cara do Momento\", \"Diamante de Lama\", \"Bonde dos Brabos\" and \"Você Partiu Meu Coração\" with Wesley Safadão and Anitta. Currently he has two albums released by Sony Music. Nego do Borel was the sixth Brazilian artist to enter the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nLeno Maycon Viana Gomes was born on July 10, 1992 in Rio de Janeiro and was raised in Morro do Borel, a slum in Rio. He was the only child of Roseli Vianna and Nelcir Gomes. He dropped out of school in fourth grade to become a funk artist. The name \"Nego do Borel\" (meaning \"black man of Borel\") emerged from a nickname given by one of Gomes' friends. Gomes would later adopt it as his stage name. Nego was raised evangelist and his mother baptised him Leno Maycon Viana Gomes after John Lennon and Michael Jackson.\n\nHe had almost all of his teeth rotten, being that his first money earned with the music was to take care of his oral health. Nego lived in a poverty situation and got hungry. Nego bought dentures with 100,000 reals and reformed his house for his mother. With the fame at the present, the artist received more than 200,000 reals per month.\n\nIn 2012, Nego released his debut single \"Os Caras do Momento\" (English: The Guys of the Moment). As of October 2018, the music video has approximately more than 50 million views on YouTube. After his hit single's success, the singer appeared on several television shows such as TV Xuxa, Programa do Ratinho, A Liga, Agora É Tarde, The Noite com Danilo Gentili and more. Nego do Borel's second single \"Bonde dos Brabos\" currently has more than 14 million views on YouTube.\n\nNego do Borel was soon signed to Sony Music and released three albums in 2014: the two extended plays \"MC Nego do Borel\", \"É Ele Mesmo\" and the live television DVD \"Da Lama a Ostentação - Ao Vivo\". The first album was released on April 29, 2014 and the second album was released on August 19, 2014. That same year, Nego released the song \"Menina Má\" from the DVD \"Da Lama a Ostentação\" featuring Melanina Carioca.\nIn 2015, Nego do Borel released his first studio album \"Nego Resolve\" which included the singles \"Não Me Deixe Sozinho\", \"Janela Aberta\" e \"Nego Resolve\". Nego collaborated with singer Anitta on her third studio album \"Bang\".\n\nNego do Borel cites Brazilian funk carioca singer Menor do Chapa as his biggest influence.\n\nNego do Borel portrays the character \"Nega da Boreli\" (meaning \"black woman of Boreli\"), who caricatures a travesti from a surburb and claims to be the girlfriend of Nego do Borel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3560223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3560223", "title": "Olav Scheflo", "text": "Olav Scheflo\n\nOlav Andreas Scheflo (9 September 1883 - 25 June 1943) was a Norwegian Communist politician and journalist. \n\nOlav Scheflo was a member of the Norwegian Labour Party from 1905. After the October Revolution he fought hard to convince the Labor Party to join the Communist International and Scheflo was a Norwegian representative at the second congress of the Comintern in 1920 and was member of the Comintern Executive Committee from 1921 to 1927. Critical towards Stalinism, he left the Norwegian Communist Party in 1928 and rejoined the Labor Party in 1929. \n\nWhen Sweden's Communist leader, Zeth Höglund was offered to be made honorable corporal in the Red Army in 1918 but declined, the offer instead went to Scheflo, who gladly accepted the position. \n\nWhen Leon Trotsky lived in exile in Norway in 1935 and 1936, Scheflo strongly defended him against attacks from both Stalinist and the Norwegian bourgeoisie. However, he would never become a real Trotskyists since he was closer to the Soviet Right Opposition.\n\nScheflo's autobiography is \"Den røde tråd i Norges historie\" (\"The Red Thread in Norwegian History\").\n"}
{"id": "46872831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46872831", "title": "Pete Buchanan", "text": "Pete Buchanan\n\nPete Buchanan is a fictional character from the British Channel 4 soap opera \"Hollyoaks\", played by Kai Owen. Since Pete's arrival he has been involved in the sex abuse plot within the McQueen family. He made his first appearance on 2 June 2015 and he left the series on 29 June 2016. On 21 September 2018, it was announced that Pete would return for a guest stint. \n\nThe concept and name of the character was announced on 8 April 2015, while additional details such as casting was announced on 10 April 2015. Pete is Reenie McQueen's (Zöe Lucker) ex-boyfriend, it is revealed that he sexually assaulted Porsche McQueen (Twinnie Lee Moore) when she was 15 years old and subjected her younger sisters, Celine (Sarah George) and Cleo (Nadine Rose Mulkerrin), to varying levels of abuse. Pete is portrayed as \"charming and deceptive\" as well as \"a nice guy\" and as such he was able to convince Reenie that Porsche propositioned him at the time of the event.\n\nIt was announced in April 2015 that the McQueen family were going to be centre to a sexual abuse storyline. \"Hollyoaks\" were working with the NSPCC with the storyline. The NSPCC said \"We've teamed-up with \"Hollyoaks\" to highlight the most common form of child sexual abuse with the aim of assisting young victims to find help and support\"\n\nIn early October 2015, it was announced that Pete would face a trial for sexually abusing the McQueen girls.\n\nOn 27 November 2015, it was announced that Pete would have Cleo go and hide a key to a lock up that has photos of him and her but she will find out there is also photos of Jade Albright (Kassius Nelson).\n\nPorsche tells Phoebe about how her mother, Reenie (Zöe Lucker), was always better when Pete was around, but one night after Reenie came home drunk, Pete sexually assaulted her. It can also be noted that Reenie didn't believe Porsche when she was told about Pete's inappropriate behavior. On the day of Phoebe McQueen's (Mandip Gill) funeral, it was revealed that Pete had been molesting Cleo for years.\n\nPete makes his first appearance on 2 June. Porsche emotionally reveals to her family that when she was 15, Pete sexually abused her. Pete claims that Porsche kissed him, but that he rebuffed her advances. Subsequently, nobody believes that Porsche was abused. Pete begins to sexually abuse and groom Porsche's younger sister Cleo after his arrival; although it is implied that he has been doing so for some time before this. When Cleo refuses to continue her \"relationship\" with him, Pete leaves Reenie, knowing that this will cause Reenie's drinking to spiral out of control. Subsequently, Cleo begs for him to return and he does so on the understanding that she will go along with what he wants. Upon his return he proposes to Reenie, but privately tells Cleo that this is so he can be closer to Cleo. Pete grows extremely jealous of Cleo's relationship with her boyfriend, Harry, even persuading Jack Osborne (Jimmy McKenna) to rethink his decision of letting Cleo work for him during the summer. To prevent Cleo from going to see Harry, Pete has sex with Cleo. At some point Pete doesn't use a condom when having sex with Cleo and she has to go to the sexual health clinic, which infuriates Porsche, Cleo lies and says she slept with Harry. Later that evening, Reenie and Pete buy Cleo birth control pills.\n\nWeeks later, Pete meets Jade Albright (Kassius Nelson), who is being fostered by the Osborne family, Pete helps Jade with her schoolwork and gives her a phone so he can start grooming her. Cleo later notices how Pete is acting with Jade and threatens to expose their relationship to Reenie. On the week of Pete and Reenie's wedding, Cleo is ready to expose her and Pete's relationship with Reenie when Pete makes Cleo believe that Reenie has terminal breast cancer. After Cleo learns this is a lie she confronts Cleo again and he calls her a \"lying bitch\". Soon after Harry learns of the secret relationship and exposes it to the McQueen family at the wedding. Porsche then lets her anger out at Pete and Cleo storms off while John Paul McQueen (James Sutton) threatens to kill Pete. The next day, Jade asks Pete to give her a lift to an old foster home when she believes the Osbornes' don’t want her anymore. Sonia manages to get a message to Jade about Pete being a pervert and Jade bashes a car door on him. Later, Pete is knocked down by Darren Osborne's (Ashley Taylor Dawson) taxi. The next day, it is revealed that Reenie ran Pete over and he threatens to tell the truth if she doesn’t stop pushing Cleo to make a statement to the police.\n\nAt Christmas, Pete is spying on the McQueen’s where he knows Reenie is on the run, he phones the police as she is planning to leave with Porsche. A few weeks later Pete sends Cleo a text asking to meet up and she goes not realising it is him. Cleo tells Pete that she doesn’t want anything to do with him anymore. Pete then tries to get a job from Nathan Nightingale. Harry confronts Pete for being at the pub working and Pete pretends that Harry attacked him and Jason Roscoe arrests Harry.\n\nDuring the trial, Pete feigned innocence, and it begins to look as if he will go free. However, Cleo takes the stand for a second time and describes what he did to her. Pete is found guilty by the jury; as he is led away to jail, he yells abuse at the McQueen family.\n\nPete returned on October 12 2018, when he is visited in prison by Joel Dexter (Rory Douglas-Speed) after Cleo's heart attack. Joel warns Pete to stay away from Cleo. He blames Pete for Cleo's purging, but Pete tells Joel that it is in fact Joel's fault. Joel attacks Pete and leaves.\n\nWhen announcing that Pete would stand trial for his crimes, Metro described Pete as \"sinister\". It was said that \"fans watched in horror\" when Cleo kissed Pete for the first time on-screen. Metro noted that Pete had \"weaved a tangled, sinister and destructive web over many months\", and has called Pete \"sinister and sly\" in an article.\n\nKai Owen has been nominated for his portrayal of Pete in the long list for Best Actor in the Inside Soap Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "3968469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3968469", "title": "Raymond Oliver", "text": "Raymond Oliver\n\nRaymond Oliver (1909–1990) was chef and owner of Le Grand Véfour restaurant in Paris, one of France's great historical restaurants. Oliver detested the nouvelle cuisine, preferring the rich ingredients favored by the chefs in his native Gascony.\n\nOliver, who was born in Langon in the Bordeaux region of France, was the son and grandson of cooks. His maternal grandmother gave him his first instruction in cooking as a boy, and he began his apprenticeship as a chef under his father at the age of 15.\n\nFor more than 35 years, he was the owner of \"Le Grand Vefour\" on the Rue de Beaujolais in the Palais-Royal district. His celebrity clientele ranged from statesmen like Winston Churchill and Andre Malraux, to writers including Albert Camus and Georges Simenon, to the industrialists and financiers Henry Ford and David Rockefeller. The Aga Khan, and Prince Rainier and Princess Grace of Monaco were among his appreciative clients, as were Jean Cocteau and Colette.\n\nDuring World War II, Oliver operated a hotel in the French Alps, organized a Resistance cell, and hid Allied airmen who had been shot down on bombing missions. He sheltered an 11-man American bomber crew until the liberation and was later decorated by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. In 1948, he purchased Le Grand Vefour, a restaurant dating to 1784. Six years after Oliver bought the restaurant, it was awarded the prized third star by the Michelin Guide (France's atlas to good dining), one of only a handful of kitchens that were so honored at that time.\n\nOliver published \"La Cuisine,\" a detailed technical cookbook, in 1967 and hosted a popular cooking show on television. He also served as one of the eleven judges at the Judgment of Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39243612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39243612", "title": "Richard Hodgson (parapsychologist)", "text": "Richard Hodgson (parapsychologist)\n\nRichard Hodgson (1855–1905) was an Australian-born psychical researcher.\n\nHodgson was born in Melbourne, Australia on 24 September 1855 to Mr. R. Hodgson, leather merchant of Melbourne. He received a doctor of law degree in 1878 from the University of Melbourne. In the 1880s he moved to England to study poetry at St John's College, Cambridge. Hodgson met Henry Sidgwick his professor at Cambridge and became a member of the Society for Psychical Research (SPR) in 1882. Hodgson joined the American Society for Psychical Research in 1887 to serve as its secretary.\n\nHodgson was sent by the SPR in 1884 to India to investigate Helena Blavatsky and concluded that her claims of psychic power were fraudulent. Among the phenomena that Hodgson investigated was the supposed miraculous Theosophical letters from the Mahatmas which were said to magically appear over a four-year period in a cabinet in the Shrine Room at the Theosophical headquarters in Madres. Hodgson in his report wrote that the letters were frauds and had been written by Blavatsky herself who had put them in the cabinet from an opening in her bedroom located behind the Shrine room. Although a believer in mental mediumship, Hodgson was a critic of physical mediumship which he claimed was fraudulent. Some of the mediums that he exposed as frauds were William Eglinton, Eusapia Palladino, Henry Slade and Rosina Thompson.\n\nA. T. Baird author of the book \"Richard Hodgson\" published by Psychic Press Limited, London in 1949 is the only biography of Hodgson. Joseph McCabe praised the work of Hodgson in debunking fraudulent mediums but wrote he was credulous on his study of Leonora Piper.\n\nThe psychical researcher Charles Richet with Oliver Lodge, Frederic W. H. Myers and Julian Ochorowicz investigated the medium Eusapia Palladino in the summer of 1894 at his house in the Ile Roubaud in the Mediterranean. Richet claimed furniture moved during the séance and that some of the phenomena was the result of a supernatural agency. However, Hodgson claimed there was inadequate control during the séances and the precautions described did not rule out trickery. Hodgson wrote all the phenomena \"described could be account for on the assumption that Eusapia could get a hand or foot free.\" Lodge, Myers and Richet disagreed, but Hodgson was later proven correct in the Cambridge sittings as Palladino was observed to have used tricks exactly the way he had described them.\n\nIn July 1895, Hodgson was invited to England to Myers' house in Cambridge for a series of investigations into the mediumship of Palladino. According to reports by Hodgson, Myers and Oliver Lodge, all the phenomena observed in the Cambridge sittings were the result of trickery. Her fraud was so clever, according to Myers, that it \"must have needed long practice to bring it to its present level of skill.\"\n\nIn the Cambridge sittings the results proved disastrous for her mediumship. During the séances Palladino was caught cheating in order to free herself from the physical controls of the experiments. Palladino was found liberating her hands by placing the hand of the controller on her left on top of the hand of the controller on her right. Instead of maintaining any contact with her, the observers on either side were found to be holding each other's hands and this made it possible for her to perform tricks. Hodgson had observed Palladino free a hand to move objects and use her feet to kick pieces of furniture in the room. Because of the discovery of fraud, the British SPR investigators such as Henry Sidgwick and Frank Podmore considered Palladino's mediumship to be permanently discredited and because of her fraud she was banned from any further experiments with the SPR in Britain.\n\nIn 1898, Myers was invited to a series of séances in Paris with Charles Richet. In contrast to the previous séances in which he had observed fraud he claimed to have observed convincing phenomena. Sidgwick reminded Myers of Palladino's trickery in the previous investigations as \"overwhelming\" but Myers did not change his position. This enraged Hodgson, then editor of SPR publications to ban Myers from publishing anything on his recent sittings with Palladino in the SPR journal. Hodgson was convinced Palladino was a fraud and supported Sidgwick in the \"attempt to put that vulgar cheat Eusapia beyond the pale.\" It wasn't until the 1908 sittings in Naples that the SPR reopened the Palladino file.\n\nHodgson was one of the very few psychical researchers that believed Leonora Piper's controls were spirits. In February, 1895 Dean Bridgman Connor a young electrician died of typhoid fever in an American Hospital in Mexico. His death was notified to his parents living in Burlington, Vermont. Connor's father claimed to have experienced a dream that his son was not dead, but alive and held captive in Mexico. There was publicity over the incident and Hodgson consulted Piper in which she gave several séances. It was alleged that Piper's spirit control claimed Conner was alive in a lunatic asylum kept by a \"Dr. Cintz\".\n\nAnthony Philpott a journalist for \"The Boston Globe\" travelled to Mexico to investigate the incident but could find no lunatic asylum or Dr. Cintz as described by Piper's control. Philpott visited the hospital where Connor was reported to have died and interviewed the nurse Helen Smith (Mrs. F. U. Winn) in Tuxpan, Veracruz who attended Connor and she confirmed he had died of typhoid fever in the hospital. On his return to Boston, Hodgson would not believe Philpott and insisted that Connor was alive and that if he had the money he would go to Mexico and find him. Philpott offered to pay his expenses and advertised the offer, however Hodgson declined the offer and did not go to Mexico. Due to the incorrect information the Dean Connor case has been described as an incident that has cast doubt on Piper's alleged ability to contact the dead.\n\nHodgson, during the latter days of his life, would allow no one to enter the privacy of his room in 15 Charles Street. During these years Hodgson believed that he constantly received direct communication with the regular band of spirits in charge of Piper. He received these messages when alone in the evening. He allowed no one to enter his room. Hodgson was afraid they would disturb the \"magnetic atmosphere\". He told very few people about this. Hodgson's lover, Jessie D., died in 1879.\n\nIn a séance Piper's control told Hodgson he would get married, have two children and have a long life but Hodgson died a few months later, unmarried and childless. After the death of Hodgson between December 1905 and the beginning of 1908 Piper held about seventy séances during which the spirit of Hodgson was said to have communicated through her. However the control of Piper sounded nothing like Hodgson. According to Joseph McCabe \"when Hodgson died in 1905 and left a large amount of manuscript in cipher, she could not get the least clue to it. When friends put test questions to the spirit of Hodgson about his early life in Australia, the answers were all wrong.\" The Hodgson control was asked the name of his schoolmaster in Melbourne but failed to give the correct answer, Hodgson's sister who was sent the messages was not convinced they were from Hodgson. Before he died Hodgson had written a test letter, and claimed that if he was to communicate through Piper he would reveal the contents inside the letter. Piper's Hodgson control failed to reveal the test letter.\n\nDeborah Blum has written that Hodgson was personally obsessed with Piper. Hodgson would stand outside her house, observing her for long periods of time even in the winter blizzards of 1888. The American psychologist Morton Prince who knew Hodgson well commented that the mediumship of Piper had \"wrecked\" his mind. \n\nJoseph McCabe stated Hodgson was an unreliable source on account of a letter he saw in the 2nd edition \"Spiritualism and Oliver Lodge\" by Dr. Charles Arthur Mercier, from a cousin of George Pellew to Edward Clodd, alleging that Hodgson claimed that Professor Fiske from his séance with Piper was \"absolutely convinced\" Piper's control was the real George Pellew, but that when Pellew's brother contacted Fiske about it, he replied it was \"a lie\" as Piper had been \"silent or entirely wrong\" on all his questions. Alan Gauld, referring to this letter as published by Clodd, stated that it was \"wholly unreliable\", noted that Hodgson in his original report wrote that Fiske had a negative attitude, and noted that Hodgson himself considered the Fiske sittings to be of no evidential value.\n\nThe psychologist and psychical researcher James Hyslop dedicated his 1905 book \"Science and a Future Life\", a study of the mediumship of Piper, to Hodgson, writing that Hodgson's research led him to the conclusions defended in the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "11836816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11836816", "title": "Robert Wedgeworth", "text": "Robert Wedgeworth\n\nRobert Wedgeworth is an American librarian who was the founding President of ProLiteracy Worldwide, an adult literacy organization. He is also a former executive director of the American Library Association, served as president of IFLA, served as Dean of the School of Library Service at Columbia University, and was university librarian at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He has also authored and edited several major reference works, and has won many awards over the course of his career. \n\nWedgeworth completed an A.B. at Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Indiana in 1959 and an M.S. in Library and Information Science at the University of Illinois in 1961. Wedgeworth joined the doctoral program in library services at Rutgers University, but left in 1972 to become the executive director of the American Library Association. In 2012, Wedgeworth returned to Rutgers, and defended and received his PhD.\n\nAfter graduation, he worked in several libraries in Kansas City and St. Louis.\n\nRobert Wedgeworth served as University Librarian, Professor of Library Administration and Professor of Library and Information Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UI) from November 1993 until August 20, 1999 when he retired from the University. The UI Library is the largest public university research library in the world and the third largest of all public and private university research libraries in North America after Harvard and Yale.\n\nPrior to that Wedgeworth had been Dean of the School of Library Service, Columbia University from 1985-1992 and Executive Director of the American Library Association (ALA) from 1972-1985.\n\nIn 1962, the American Library Association selected Wedgeworth as one of 75 librarians to serve as staff for “Library 21,” a library of the future exhibit at the Seattle World’s Fair. This experience and additional data processing training at IBM led to his appointment as Assistant Chief Acquisitions Librarian at Brown University in July 1966, with a special assignment to introduce library automation to the Brown Libraries. From 1966 to 1969, he managed all domestic and foreign acquisitions of library materials at Brown while developing an automated acquisitions and fund accounting system. As a Council on Library Resources, Inc. Fellow he toured all of Western Europe studying the book trade during the summer of 1969.\n\nWedgeworth moved to the Graduate School of Library Service, Rutgers-The State University of New Jersey in the fall of 1969 to do advanced studies in librarianship and teach in the graduate program. He left Rutgers to become Executive Director of the American Library Association (ALA) in August 1972.\n\nAssuming the leadership of ALA during a turbulent period of internal strife, he led the effort to democratize the Association and gave it new visibility and credibility nationally and internationally. Under his leadership the Association grew from 28,000 members to over 40,000. He developed a new Headquarters building in a joint venture that more than doubled the value of its property and produced a windfall profit of more than $10 million by 2003. With the demise of the National Book Committee, Wedgeworth negotiated with the publishing industry to bring the National Library Week program to the ALA. It quickly became a nationally visible marketing tool and the third major revenue source for the Association.\n\nHis interest in reading and literacy led to his involvement in the creation of the Friends of Libraries USA and to his initiative to organize the Coalition on Literacy in 1979. He then persuaded the Advertising Council to launch the first nationwide ad campaign promoting adult literacy.\n\nIn 1975, President Gerald R. Ford appointed Wedgeworth to the National Commission on New Uses of Copyrighted works (CONTU) where he was influential in the resolution of library photocopying issues that were key components of the Copyright Revision Law of 1978. From 1985 until 1992, he served as Dean of the School of Library Service, Columbia University.\n\nAt Illinois, Wedgeworth reorganized the library faculty and transformed a 1970s university library, technologically, into a 1990s university library. Under his leadership, Illinois launched a National Science Foundation sponsored digital library research program, expanded its Mortenson Center training program for foreign librarians and launched the web-based Kolb-Proust Research Archive to international acclaim. The UI Library also raised over $18 million in new endowments during his tenure, a record for a public university.\n\nWedgeworth became President of ProLiteracy Worldwide in August 2002 when Laubach Literacy International (LLI) and Literacy Volunteers of America, Inc. (LVA) merged. ProLiteracy Worldwide is the largest non-governmental literacy training organization in the world, and publishes basic and advanced literacy training materials and provides literacy training through its affiliates across the U.S. and partner organizations in over 60 developing countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. Wedgewood retired as President and CEO of ProLiteracy in 2007. \n\nAfter six years on the Executive Board of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), he was elected President in 1991 and re-elected in 1995 to serve until 1997. He is only the second American to be elected IFLA President and the only one to be elected to serve a second term. During his tenure as IFLA President he led the Association to become the dominant international library and information service organization in the world, expanding its membership to over 140 countries. He led the transformation of IFLA by introducing a global communications system (IFLANET) through the technical support of SilverPlatter and the National Library of Canada. From 1993 in Barcelona to 1997 in Copenhagen, he presided over IFLA conferences that attracted record-breaking attendance to its programs and exhibits.\n\nCurrently, he serves as a member of the National Commission on Adult Literacy, he is a life member of the American Library Association, a life member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), a member of the Board of Trustees of Wabash College, the Board of Trustees of the Newberry Library and a member of the Grolier Society. Previously he has served on many boards and advisory committees including advisory committees to the Princeton, Miami, Stanford and Harvard University Libraries. He recently completely twelve years as a public member of the Accrediting Council for Journalism and Mass Communication and six years as an editorial adviser to the World Book Encyclopedia.\n\nIn his almost 40 years as a librarian, library educator and association executive, Wedgewood created and edited two major reference works, ALA YEARBOOK, 1976-1985 and the WORLD ENCYCLOPEDIA OF LIBRARY AND INFORMATION SERVICES, 3d edition 1993. \n\nIn addition, he has written and lectured widely on international librarianship, international book trade, and copyright and information policy and information technology. He has also conducted special studies of librarianship and the book trade in Western Europe, Latin America and South Africa. His publication, STARVATION OF YOUNG BLACK MINDS: THE EFFECTS OF THE BOOK BOYCOTTS IN SOUTH AFRICA, New York, 1989 written jointly with Lisa Drew raised serious questions about curbing the free flow of information during the struggle to combat apartheid. More recently, he produced a study of library development in South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe for the Carnegie Corporation of New York in 1998.\n\nFor his achievements Wedgeworth has received many honors and awards including five honorary doctorates, most recently from the College of William & Mary in 1988. In 1991, he was honored as the Most Distinguished Alumnus of the University of Illinois, Graduate School of Library and Information Science and in 1996 he received the Medal of Honor from the International Council of Archives for his international activities. From the American Library Association, he has received three of its highest honors, the Lippincott and Melvil Dewey awards for professional leadership and the Humphry/OCLC/Forest Press Award for achievements in international librarianship. In 2011, he presented the Jean E. Coleman Library Outreach Lecture: \"Literacy in Libraries: Challenges and Opportunities.\"\n\nHe and his wife, Chung-Kyun (C.K.), who is also a retired librarian, have one daughter who is an editor with the Los Angeles Times.\n\n"}
{"id": "4891000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4891000", "title": "Roy Simmons (American football)", "text": "Roy Simmons (American football)\n\nRoy Franklin Simmons (November 8, 1956 – February 20, 2014) was an American football player who played as a guard in the National Football League (NFL) with the New York Giants and the Washington Redskins. With the Redskins he played in Super Bowl XVIII. He became the second former NFL player to come out as gay and the first to disclose that he was HIV-positive.\n\nBorn in Savannah, Georgia, Simmons had five siblings from multiple fathers. As a child, he was sexually assaulted by a male acquaintance, and he later said that he was severely affected by the trauma of that event. At Alfred E. Beach High School in Savannah, he became a highly recruited football star before committing to play at Georgia Tech. At Georgia Tech, he acquired the nickname \"Sugarbear\" due to his fun-loving personality. Though Simmons developed a habit of getting intoxicated and visiting bathhouses near the Georgia Tech campus, his college friends did not suspect that he was gay. \n\nAfter his career at Georgia Tech, he became an eighth-round draft pick of the New York Giants in 1979. After signing with the team, Simmons moved his three younger brothers to New Jersey to live with him. Later, his mother and other family members moved in. Simmons was a regular on the offensive line in his rookie season, and by 1980 he started all 16 games as the left guard.\n\nSimmons later said that he fell into problems with substance abuse during his time in the NFL. He felt that he had to keep his sexuality a secret, writing, \"The N.F.L. has a reputation, and it’s not even a verbal thing — it's just known. You are gladiators; you are male; you kick butt.\" Simmons lost his position as a starter in 1981 and he left the Giants before the 1982 season, citing mental fatigue. After briefly working as an airport baggage handler and failing to make the Giants roster in a 1983 comeback, he was signed by the Redskins. He appeared in the 1984 Super Bowl.\n\nSimmons appeared briefly in the United States Football League, but his professional career was over by 1985. In 1989, one of Simmons' young cousins had revealed to a girlfriend of Simmons that the former player had male lovers. Embarrassed, Simmons moved to San Francisco and disengaged from his family. He became immersed in the city's drug culture, was injured in a knife fight and became homeless at one point.\n\nIn 1992, he announced that he was gay on \"The Phil Donahue Show\". Around 1997, he learned that he was HIV-positive. In 2006, three days before the Super Bowl, Simmons requested a media credential and two tickets to the game. The NFL denied his request, saying that it had received too many similar requests to accommodate all of them. Simmons and attorney Gloria Allred wrote to the NFL and requested an investigation into whether his request had been denied due to his sexuality or his HIV status. His autobiography, \"Out of Bounds\", was published that year.\n\nAccording to Simmons' brother Gary, the former NFL player lived alone and spent several stints in drug treatment after his playing career. Simmons was a born-again Christian, and a Christian Broadcasting Network video profile intimated that Simmons came to see homosexuality as immoral, but Simmons' brother said that Simmons was always proud to identify as a gay black man. Simmons died February 20, 2014, in his Bronx, New York apartment at the age of 57. In 2015, he was inducted into the National Gay and Lesbian Sports Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "33062203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33062203", "title": "Russian given name", "text": "Russian given name\n\nRussian given names are provided at birth or selected during a name change. Orthodox Christian names constitute a fair proportion of Russian given names, but there are many exceptions including pre-Christian Slavic names, Communist names, and names taken from ethnic minorities in Russia. Given names form a distinct area of the Russian language with some unique features.\n\nThe evolution of Russian given names dates back to the pre-Christian era, though the list of common names changed drastically after the adoption of Christianity. In medieval Russia two types of names were in use: canonical names given at baptism (calendar or Christian names, usually modified) and non-canonical. The 14th century was marked by the elimination of non-canonical names, that ended by the 18th century. In the 20th century after the October Revolution the whole idea of a name changed. It was a completely new era in the history of Russian names, marked by significant changes in common names.\n\nThe names of popular saints are known as \"calendar names\" from their occurrence in the Eastern Orthodox liturgical calendar. A common custom is to name the baby for the saint who is the patron over their birthday. Such names include Ivan (, \"John\"), Andrei (, \"Andrew\"), Yakov (, \"Jacob\"), Yuri (, \"George\"), Tatyana (, \"Tatiana\"), Maria (, \"Mary\"), Avdotia (, \"Eudocia\"), Elizaveta (, \"Elizabeth\"). The group of calendar names includes traditional names that used to be listed in orthodox menologia prior to the October Revolution and in popular calendars of the Soviet era that had been printed since the second half of the 19th century. 95% of the Russian-speaking population in the Soviet Union in the 1980s had calendar names.\n\nAncient Slavic names include Stanislav (), Rada () and Radomir (), and Dobromila. Old Russian names include Zhdan (), Peresvet (), Lada (), and Lyubava (). Soviet-era names include Vilen (), Avangard (), Ninel (), and Era (). Names borrowed from other languages include Albert (), Ruslan (), Zhanna (), and Leyla ().\n\nThe number of currently used names is relatively small. According to various estimations no more than 600 masculine and feminine names more or less regularly appear in modern generations: the main body of given names doesn't exceed 300-400.\n\nThe history of Russian given name is usually divided in three stages:\n\nBefore adoption of Christianity till the end of the 10th century, eastern Slavs (ancestors of modern Russians, Ukrainians and Belarusians) used almost exclusively Slavonic names which were given at birth. No distinction between first name and nickname was made during this period. Given names in Old East Slavonic language (nickname, epithet, handle) are similar to appellation after a particular episode. Pre-Christian names were used in Rus' several centuries after adoption of Christianity. They were commonly used alongside Christian names till the end of 17th century.\n\nOld Slavonic names are exceptionally diverse. Dictionary of Old Slavonic names by N. M. Tupikov, printed in 1903, comprised 5300 masculine and 50 feminine names. Old Slavonic names fall in several categories:\n\n\nAll previously mentioned names fall into domestic category were used in family circle. However when a person entered a broader social group (changing his occupation or place of residence), his name was replaced or supplemented by another. This sort of nickname exceeds family names in number - an adult has more distinct characteristics that can be used as a basis for a nickname than a child.\n\nNot all pre-Christian names were equally popular. Only some tens of several thousand names were actively used. Popularity of pagan names resulted in formation of various diminutive forms: Bychko from Byk, Zhdanko from Zhdan, Puzeika from Puzo and so on. The most popular names had many forms. For example root -bel- produced a wide range of names like Bela, Belka, Belava, Beloy, Belonya, Belyay, Belyash. Root -sem- produced 33 names, including Semanya, Semeika and Semushka.\n\nIncreasing influence of the Russian Orthodox church on social life led to gradual elimination of pagan nicknames. However, they didn't become completely extinct, as they served as basis for major part of Russian surnames (the first stage of surname formation took place in the 15th century).\n\nAdoption of Christianity led to introduction of completely new, foreign names that were tightly connected to baptism ceremony: according to Christian tradition baptism presumes giving Christian name. Names were given according to special books - minei Месячные минеи, which described religious services, ceremonies for each day, including which saint to praise. Religious tradition dictated that children should be named in honor of a saint, praised on the day of baptism (Sometimes on birthday, sometimes any day between birth and baptism). Minei were extremely expensive, so some churches couldn't afford them. One possible solution was to use menologia (Месяцеслов, святцы) - calendars with brief listing of religious celebrations and Saints days.\n\nMinei were among the first books to be translated into Russian from Greek. With a rare exceptions names were not translated, preserving their original pronunciation. Their meaning was completely obscure for vast majority of people and they were perceived as alien. This state of things led on the one hand to long coexistence of Christiana and pagan names and to active assimilation and transformation of Christian names.\n\nChristian and pagan names coexisted up to the 17th century. One of the reasons is that parents could not choose a name for a child freely – a newborn was baptized according to the menologium. Sometimes several children in one family would bear one name. Furthermore, the total number of names in the menologium at the time didn't exceed 400. Pagan nicknames being more diverse and less restrictive provided a convenient way to distinguish people bearing one name.\n\nA practice established in the 14th to 16th centuries supposed giving two names: a baptismal name (usually modified) and a nickname. For example: Trofimko Czar (Torpes the Czar), Fedka Knyazets, Karp Guba, Prokopiy Gorbun (Procopius the Humpback), Amvrosiy Kovyazin, Sidorko Litvin. This practice was widespread in all stratas. Boyar Andrei Kobyla (\"lit.\" Andrew the Mare) a progenitor of Romanov dynasty and some other boyar families man serve as an example as well his sons' names: Semyon Zherebets (Semyon the Stallion), Aleksandr Yolka (Alexandre the Spruce), Fyodor Koshka (Fyodor the Cat). Craftsmen did name their children in the same manner. For example, Ivan Fyodorov the first man to print a book often signed as Ivan Fyodorov, son of Moskvit (Иван Фёдоров сын Москвитин).\n\nInfluence of Russian Orthodox church steadily grew in 11th-14th centuries, its influence as a consolidating religious force after Mongol invasion of Rus and during period of feudal fragmentation in Kiev Rus became especially important. Unification of Russian feudal states also contributed to raise of church's influence on policy and society. Under influence of the church many knyazes, descendants of Rurik, began to abandon their pagan names in favor of Christian names.\n\nIn XVII names divided in the three distinct forms: popular (spoken), literary and baptismal (church form). This process was boosted by Patriarch Nikon's reform. One of the ventures he undertook was to correct religious books, which had accumulated a lot of errors and misreading as they used to be copied by sometimes illiterate scribes. As a result religious services differed in different parts of the country. Patriarch Nikon set goal to unify service in Russia and to correct errors in religious books (including menologia). New translations from Greek were made to achieve this goal. Corrected versions were printed in 1654.\n\nModern era begins right after October Revolution. The decree \"On Separation of Church from State and Schools from Church\" outlawed connection of any public and social acts with religious ceremonies. Since that baptism ceased to be a legally binding act. The right to register names was handed to civil authorities, namely civil registry.\nAs a result the whole conception of name changed. Naming no longer depended on religious traditions and rules.\nDirect and tight connection with orthodox saints names was lost.\nAny citizen was free to choose a name he wished for himself and his children. As a matter of fact, any word could be used as a name; function of civil registry was reduced to proper registration of citizens.\n\nSocial innovations gave incentive to develop \"new names for new life\". Mikhail Frunze, a high-ranked soviet officer, Civil war veteran was among the first to use a new name, naming his son Timur. Another example is the case of Demyan Bedny, a well-known atheistic activist who named his son Svet. The Soviet writer Artem Veseliy named his daughter Volga.\n\nSince 1924 Gosizdat started issuing calendars similar to those that had existed prior to the Revolution. This new kind of calendars included traditional but rare names given without reference to saints as well as new names. New names comprised non-baptismal names, both Russian and Slavic, borrowed names and newly formed names. Calendars of 1920-30 being a good reference wasn't the only source of names. As mentioned above, parents were free to pick any name they wished, and this freedom led to active name formation, which later was dubbed \"anthroponymic bang\".\n\nAccording to Russian naming tradition in official speech people are addressed by their name followed by a patronymic. In official situations one's given name is always written or spoken in its legal form (name given at birth and documented in papers like birth certificate and passport).\n\nPrior to October Revolution canonical form was considered official. It was documented in baptismal register books. However, in birth certificate and other documents a secular form was used. Arising ambiguity was not considered important and didn't cause any legal consequences. In baptismal register books people bearing names Yuriy and Egor appeared as Georgy, but in other documents they could use the variant they were used to.\n\nAfter the Revolution various forms of one name started being considered as different names. Names from the example above – Georgy, Yegor and Yuriy became legally different names after the Revolution. Generally, names are considered to be different if they during assimilation acquired significant differences as in following cases:\nThere are names which, being legally different, are considered the same in common usage and share short forms, like Nataliya and Natalya (short form – Natasha).\n\nAs opposed to full forms used in formal situations, short forms of a name are used in communication between well-acquainted people, usually relatives, friends and colleagues. Short forms emerged in spoken language for convenience as majority of formal names are cumbersome. They are multi-syllabic, their phonetical structure sometimes doesn't comply with Russian phonetics, as they contain unusual sequences of phonems. Short forms being stylistically neutral, demonstrate that people using them are in close relationships and equal statuses. In case when elder people address younger ones, short names also are stylistically neutral.\n\nShort form were derived from truncated stems of full forms, sometimes preserving very little in common. There are traditional short form, formed by adding -a or -ya suffix to a truncated stem of a name: Valer(y) → Valer|a,\nFyod(or) → Fed|ya, Rom(an) → Rom|a, Pyot(r) → Pet|ya, Ol(ga) → Ol|ya, Vic(toriya) → Vik|a.\nSuch transformation results in a short word ending with an open syllable, convenient to address or call a person.\n\nRussian language has neutral suffixes that are used (sometimes with -a and -ya) with more radically truncated stems:\n\nUnrestrained derivation of new names made possible coexistence of multiple short forms of the same name. For example, Irina → Rina, Risha, Irisha, Ina; Vitaliy → Vitalya, Vita, Vitya, Talya, Vitasha. On the other hand extremely faint phonetic connection between short and full forms permits to associate one short form with many full names. For example \"Dictionary of Russian personal names\" by N.A. Petrovskiy corresponds Alya to 19 masculine and 18 feminine names including Aleksey, Oleg, Yuvenaliy, Aleksandr and Aleksandra, Alisa, Alla, Galina.\n\nThere are names for which a short form is difficult to produce. These are usually rare names like Erast, Orest, Toviy, Radiy, Rosa and suchlike. Also some (usually two-syllable) names in are traditionally used in full form even in informal conversation disregarding their short forms (Andrey, Igor, Oleg, Vera, Inna, Nina).\n\nAs already stated above, the short form is generally used in spoken conversation between acquainted people and usually doesn't act as an official or public name. However starting from the late 1980s in popular culture, in artistic circles short names gained new status. They appear on posters, disk covers and are widely used in mass media. Dima Malikov, Dima Bilan, Vlad Topalov, Nastya Poleva, Tanya Bulanova, Vika Tsyganova, Lyuba Uspenskaya, Masha Rasputina, Natasha Koroleva became known under their short names. This approach is perceived as accepted part of artistic freedom.\n\nMany Russian short names are used, in slightly adapted form, as full legal given names in Serbia, Montenegro and Croatia. For example: Anja, Feđa, Katja/Kaća, Maša, Nataša, Olja, Saša, Sonja, Tanja.\n\nDiminutive forms constitute a distinct body among various derivative forms. As opposed to full, formal names, their short forms are emotional. They demonstrate warm and tender attitude towards addressee, although some diminutive forms can bear slighting or pejorative emotions.\nDiminutive forms generally are used by close relatives and good friends. They are often used by parents addressing their children.\n\nDiminutive and affectionate forms are derived by adding various diminutive suffixes (-ochk-, -echk-, -onyk-, -enyk-, -ushk-, -yushk-, -yush-, -yash-, -ul-, -ush-, -un-, -us-, -k-, -ik- &c.). Diminutive forms can be derived from both short and full names.\nFor example: from Maria (full form) following diminutive forms can be derived:\n\nDiminutives derived with -k- suffix carry a pejorative tint, (Sashka, Grishka, Svetka etc.) This is related to a historical tradition to use semi-names to refer to oneself when speaking with a person of higher social status. However, among peers this form didn't have such a tint, indicating only simplicity in communication and close relation. Nonetheless, in modern Russian diminutives like Vasyka, Marinka, Alka are considered stylistically lowered.\n\n"}
{"id": "2749111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2749111", "title": "Semyon Kosberg", "text": "Semyon Kosberg\n\nSemyon Ariyevich Kosberg (\"Семен Ариевич Косберг\" in Russian) (October 1(14), 1903, Slutsk - January 3, 1965, Voronezh) was a Jewish Soviet engineer, expert in the field of aircraft and rocket engines, Doctor of Technical Sciences (1959), Hero of Socialist Labor (1961).\n\nIn 1931, Semyon Kosberg graduated from the Moscow Aviation Institute. He then worked in some of the biggest planning organizations of the Soviet aircraft industry. In 1941, Kosberg was appointed chief designer of an aircraft design bureau, later known as OKB-154, which he ran until his death. He is known for his contributions to the creation of aircraft engines, mounted on the Lavochkin La-5, Lavochkin La-7, and other mass wartime aircraft. In 1946-1965, Kosberg supervised the development of a series of liquid fuel rocket engines, which would be mounted on the final stages of carrier rockets and put into orbit piloted spacecraft, satellites, and interplanetary automatic space stations.\n\nSemyon Kosberg was awarded the Lenin Prize (1960), Order of Lenin, three other orders and different medals. A crater on the far side of the Moon is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "49888742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49888742", "title": "Seán Mac Mahon", "text": "Seán Mac Mahon\n\nSeán Mac Mahon (born John Michael Mc Mahon, also sometimes spelled as Seán McMahon, Sean Mac Mahon and Sean McMahon, \"Irish: Seán Mac Mathúna\", 15 September 1893 – 26 March 1955) was an Irish Rebel who fought in the 1916 rising.\n\nBorn John Michael Mc Mahon on Friday 15 September 1893 at 118 Cork Street in Dublin. His mother was Mary, formerly Delaney, and his father, Edward Mc Mahon, was just 2 weeks from his 25th Birthday. His father Edward would later become a maltster in Cork Street.\n\nHe was the eldest of 7 children. 4 brothers and 2 sisters. Pat (Patrick) born 23 July 1897, the twins Ned (Edward) and Tom (Thomas) born on 4 December 1902 and Joe (Joseph) born 7 July 1909. The girls were Annie, born 21 September 1895 and Kathleen (Catherine) born 9 November 1900.\n\nAfter leaving school on 26 September 1907 just 11 days after his 14th birthday Seán Mac Mahon started work in Dublin Post Office. He left on 17 September 1909 having reached the age limit of 16.\n\nHe then turned to clerical work possible for Plunkett Bros. Maltsters who maintained a presence, office and malthouse perhaps, at 4 and 5 Sandwith Street. He gave 5 Sandwith \nStreet as his address when later interned in 1916. His father was at this time a Forman maltster with Plunkett Bros at this address.\n\nAt the inception of the Volunteers in 1913 he was enrolled as a member of \"B\" Company, 3rd Battalion, Dublin City Brigade.\n\nIn 1914 he became 1st Lieutenant under The O’Rahilly with promotion to Captain, replacing The O’Rahilly in 1915. It is assumed that by this time he was also a very active IRB member. B Company, 3rd Battalion headquarters was at 144 Great Brunswick Street now called Pearse Street.\n\nEaster Week 1916 he fought as Captain of \"B\" Company, 3rd Battalion under Eamonn De Valera in Bolands Mills with responsibility for Westland Row Train Station.\n\nHe represented \"B\" Company at a meeting of the Battalion Council in 144 Great Brunswick Street on the Good Friday prior to the rising. Present were Commandant De Valera, Captain Begley, Lieutenant Byrne, Lieutenant Charlie Murphy, Joseph O Connor and others. They were given precise orders as to the positions they were to occupy on the Sunday. They were informed as to the quantity of stores at their disposal. A large quantity of provisions had been purchased. Each company was to be responsible for the collection of such stores and their transport to their operational area.\n\n\"B\" Company were to take over Westland Row Railway Station. They were to send a party up to Tara Street and link up with 2nd Battalion who would be in charge of Amiens Street section of the railway. They were on the other side to connect up with \"A\" Company on the railway at Grand Canal Quay.\n\nCaptain Mac Mahon cleared, barricaded and locked Westland Row station. Volunteers under Capt. John Mc Mahon, he was still known by his birth name, and Capt Joseph O Connor cut telephone wires and seized signal boxes. They were charged to snipe and fight running battles around the railway so as to maintain control of it. Ensuring that any reinforcements landing at Kingstown (Dún Laoghaire) would have to march to Dublin. He than sabotaged part of the line and entrenched his men about 300 yards away from the station. The railway was of enormous importance as it also ran through De Valera’s command area. Its defence was entrusted to \"two of his best officers\" Mac Mahon and O’ Connor.\n\nTheir first encounter was on Monday near Bath Avenue when Mac Mahon with seven of his men repelled soldiers from Beggars Bush Barracks and killed a sergeant major. There were nine stone archways between Westland Row and Ringsend. The volunteer marksmen attacked British soldiers from behind these protecting walls and shot at them on Great Brunswick Street ( Pearse Street) and Grand Canal Street as well as in the square of Beggars Bush Barracks.\n\nOne memorable incident stands out. When one of his own determined men was seriously wounded the problem arose as to how to get the man to hospital. Captain Mac Mahon provided a solution by taking the man to St Vincent’s Hospital himself while in uniform and under fire from the British troops.\n\nDe Valera, who was getting exhausted, did towards the end of the fighting order the burning of Westland Row station but had to be persuaded by Mac Mahon not to do so. The deciding argument being that it would have most likely led also to the burning of St Andrews Church next door on Westland Row. This deciding argument story is passed down through the Mac Mahon family.\n\n\"By Thursday/Friday he was exhausted: ‘I can’t trust the men – they’ll leave their posts if I fall asleep, if I don’t watch them. ‘When Lt James Fitzgerald assured his O/C he’d sit by him de Valera relented and fell asleep immediately. Soon he awoke screaming. ‘set fire to the railway!\" De Valera insisted that papers be dipped in whiskey and used to set fore to the waiting rooms and rolling stock, but another officer, Cpt John Mc Mahon, O/C of B Company, ‘eventually persuaded de Valera to reason and the fires were put out.\n\nThe reaction by the locals on Boland’s Mills surrender was unlike most other areas. The locals were friendly and sympathetic and they received an ovation in Grand Canal Street with offers of refuge. They were met by British officers and soldiers in Grattan Street where they laid down their weapons. The men marched into Lower Mount Street through lines of bayonets.\n\nMay 1916 he was deported and imprisoned first in Wakefield then Frongoch where he was listed as John Mc Mahon 5B Sandwith Street and finally Wormwood Scrubbs. Leo, Thomas and James Fitzgerald of 173 great Brunswick Street (Pearse Street), his future brothers in law were also interned in Frongoch. On the 11/06/1916 the General Council was elected in Frongoch and on the 21/6/1916 the Council called a meeting of all commissioned officers among which was Capt. J. Mc Mahon. Collins and Mulcahy. Mac Mahon and many of the future G. H. Q. Staff were present in Frongoch where the IRB was being reorganised.\n\nIn September that year in Frongoch it was suggested that a patch of ground be cultivated. Sean Mac Mahon and 2 others \"being city men,\" asked to be shown how to do it. Eventually admitting \"put us in the clink we won’t be doing any work\".\n\nOn 2/11/1916 The Murphy incident started in Frongoch. Afterwards 15 hut leaders were court-martialled among whom was Sean Mac Mahon. He was defended by Gavin Duffy. He was sentenced to 28 days hard labour serving 6 of them in the camp.\n\nHe arrived home on Christmas Eve 1916 after the amnesty via Dún Laoghaire (Kingstown).\n\nHe was employed as a clerk on the managerial staff of the Nationality, Arthur Griffith’s newspaper. He resumed his association with the Volunteers becoming Vice Commandant of the 3rd Battalion. He was held in the highest esteem by the founder and editor of the paper President Griffith. B Company 3rd Battalion was immediately reformed with Seán Quinn being elected Captain.\n\nPrior to May 1917 President Griffith sent Seán Mac Mahon and Joseph Curran to Longford to work on ensuring Joseph Mc Guinness was elected for Sinn Féin in the South Longford by-election. McGuinness was serving a prison term when he was elected to Westminster and among those who also worked on his election campaign was Michael Collins. The election slogan for McGuinness at the time was \"Put him in to get him out!\" It was narrowly won by Sinn Féin with a majority of 37 votes. Seán Mac Mahon and Joseph Curran worked hard and \"we converted the hostile people who tried hard to beat us out of Newtownforbes.\" The election was held on the 9th May 1917.\n\nWhen Seán and Joseph reached Dublin on their return a number of police tried to capture a flag from them. They got several items but not the flag as it was divided between the two.\n\nIt was during the period of this election that the Volunteers were formed in the area of South Longford. The Volunteers took a very active part in the election organizing and canvassing voters, protection duty at the polling stations, bringing voters to the booths, escorting the ballot boxes and suchlike work.\n\nOn the 25th October1917 a new Sinn Féin Ard Fheis was held. De Valera was elected President of the party. Griffith and Fr Michael O Flanagan were vice-presidents. Collins barely made it onto the executive. The next day De Valera was elected President of the Irish Volunteers. Collins was appointed director of organisation of the volunteers. A 26 man executive was established. Cathal Bruagh was put in charge of the executive but it became a bit too loose. It was decided to set up a headquarters staff.\n\n\"Seven of the most prominent members of the resident executive met at the headquarters of the printers union at 35 Lower Gardener Street to select a chief of staff in March 1918. Those attending were Collins, Richard Mulcahy, Dick Mc Kee, Gearoid O Sullivan, Diarmuid O’ Hegarty, Rory O’Connor and Seán Mac Mahon.\" \n\nMulcahy was elected chief of staff. In 1919 Seán Mac Mahon became Q.M.G. of the IRA. Being attached to the General Headquarters.\n\nHe married Lucinda Fitzgerald on Thursday 27 November 1919 in the Church of Saint Andrew, Westland Row, Dublin, that same church that he had helped save from being destroyed. They went to Ulster for their honeymoon to see Seán MacEntee, MacEntee at that time served as Vice-Commandant of the Belfast Brigade of the IRA. Their first home was in Heytesbury Street, in Dublin\n\nSeán Mac Mahon was the organiser of the famous Q Company based at Dublin Docks, which was finally organised into a unit in March 1921. John Kennedy was transferred from \"B\" Company, 3rd Battalion, Dublin Brigade, to his department to help run it. He also found time to organise the Volunteers at the various railway stations both in Dublin and throughout the country.\n\nOn another occasion, about this time, the British military carried out a raid on a business premises in Stephen’s Green. Every room in the building with the exception of two were searched. One of these was the Q.M.G.’s War Office.\n\nMany meetings took place in Whelan's Pub at 49 Parnell Street. Owned and run by James Kirwan from Tipperary. He was a member of \"D\" Company 2nd Battalion, Dublin Brigade. Whenever there was an important meeting being held in the snug Richard Mulcahy would preside with Seán Mac Mahon, Gearoid O Sullivan, Frank Thorton, Seán O’Connell, Michael Larken and of course Oscar Traynor these men were always present. Mick Collins was always in and out, keeping much of his funds hidden here. £3,000 at one time behind a brick in the wall of the cellar. Often used to buy arms. It was here that the escape from Kilmainham Gaol and of Sean Mac Eoin from Mountjoy were planned.\n\nA meeting remembered by Pax Whelan (Pax O’ Faoláin) about February 1921. \"I was at a HQ meeting in a house on the quays. All the top people were there, Mick, Liam Mellows who was director of purchases, Cathal Brugha Minister for Defence, Rory O’ Connor, Seán Mac Mahon Q.M.G., Liam Lynch and some others. They were discussing whether to bring in a boat with arms\" \n\nHe took part in several engagements during the Black and Tan war and was present during the night ambush when his Brother in Law, Leo Fitzgerald was killed in Great Brunswick Street on 14 March 1921.\n\nDublin had awoken on the morning to 14 March 1921, to the news that six IRA Volunteers, captured in an ambush at Drumcondra two months before, had been hanged.\n\nThe Labour movement called a half-day general strike in the city in protest at the hangings. The Republican government declared a day of national mourning. All public transport came to a halt.\n\nBy the evening, the streets cleared rapidly as the British-imposed curfew came into effect at 9pm each night. It was about 8 o’clock. The curfew was approaching. A company of Auxiliaries, based in Dublin Castle was sent to the area to investigate an explosion. It consisted of one Rolls Royce armoured car and two tenders (trucks) holding about 16 men. Apparently the Auxiliaries had some inside information as they made straight for the local IRA headquarters at 144 Pearse Street. One later testified in court that – \"I had been notified there were a certain number of gunmen there\". Leo, with others, was protecting his brother in law and other senior staff attending a meeting. As soon as the Auxiliaries approached the building, fire was opened on them from three sides. Firing lasted for just five minutes but in that time seven people were killed or fatally wounded and at least six more wounded. Leo Fitzgerald was killed outright.\n\nThe Treaty was signed on 6 December 1921.\n\nOn the formation of the Regular Army in February 1922 he continued as Q.M.G.\n\nWhen Michael Collins was shot in Beal Na mBláth and buried in Dublin he carried, with others, the coffin from St Vincents Hospital Dublin to the waiting gun carriage. Michael Collins brother gave him the handerchief that was on Collins person when he was shot.\n\nIn September 1922 he succeeded General Mulcahy as Chief of the General Staff. He was unknown not only to the Irish public but also to the British at Dublin Castle. At a reunion in Gormanstown in September 1922 General Mulcahy boasted of the great progress of the Army by indicating the newly appointed Chief of Staff as \"the Army’s first real Chief of Staff\"\n\nThe Army needed to be professionalised, armed and numbers increased in the short term. After the civil war ended it would have to be brought to peace time operation and numbers reduced again.\n\nTrouble continued in Northern Ireland with violence against the Catholics. It was considered important to continue to supply and arm the Northern Ireland IRA units. To this end the Free State Army sanctioned the surreptitious purchase of arms from a London arms dealer.\n\nIn May 1923 General Sean Mac Mahon summed up the course of events \"Early last year (1922), during the programme in the North and when our men in the Northern Divisions were making every effort to deal with the situation, the demand for arms increased and every weapon we could lay our hands on was sent to one of our Northern divisions. Arms were taken from Southern units and sent up North and later we supplied them with some arms from the regular army. The position became very difficult and, after many meetings with our Northern officers, it was decided that we would procure a quantity of arms under cover to be sent in to the six counties. I went into the matter of procuring a quantity of revolvers and rifles with Mr Frank Fitzgerald (Uncle to Gareth Fitzgerald), who has been procuring materials for us for a long time…\"\n\nThis deal went badly wrong with Frank Fitzgerald. General Mac Mahon approved the deal and an advance of £10,000 was given out of Army funds. The revolvers were due at the end of June 1922 however the attack to retake the Customs House was on 28, 29 and 30 June 1922. General Seán Mac Mahon was in Cork at this time. General Mac Mahon told Fitzgerald to hold things up because he was concerned that the guns may get into the wrong hands.\n\nThings began to go badly wrong in London at the end of August 1922 and it seems that Fitzgerald may have been a rather incompetent gunrunner. He messed up one revolver deal in June by not turning up for an appointment with the arms dealer who then sold the guns to Brazil. Everything fell apart. The Free State authorities no longer had the same need for the arms having won the civil war. But whatever pressure Fitzgerald put on it was effective (He had a brother in the Cabinet and was friendly with Mulcahy and Ernest Blyth).\n\nOn 19 October 1923 Mulcahy and General Sean Mac Mahon had a meeting with W.T. Cosgrave (President of the Executive Council). Mulcahy and other Ministers went to the Dept of Finance and drew out £5,000 Then Mulcahy and General Mac Mahon caught the night boat to England to see Fitzgerald. They brokered a deal and gave him the money. Needless to say the saga continued on with the Free State threatening legal action. Some arms were received but the Cosgrave government tried to distance itself from the situation. The last word on the matter was in the Dáil in 1927 when Fianna Fáil’s Frank Carney TD (Chief supplies officer Portobello 1922) commented that they fitted out a flying column from South Down/Armagh area two or three days before the attack on the Four Courts. They had been waiting on the guns from London.\n\nOn 4 November 1922 Ernie O Malley was arrested and brought to Portobello. General Sean Mac Mahon went privately to visit him.\n\nEven before the end of the civil war in 1923 it was evident that the leadership of the National Army or \"Defence Force\" saw a future where they were a respected, professional, well organised army, subservient to the government of the day. That Government was following the agreement with Britain and had concerns about its military budget. At the beginning of 1923 the National Army accounted one third of all current budget expenditure by the state. The leadership of the IRA organisation wished to continue the fight for an all island Republic using whatever means but particularly a well-armed nationalist army. While the Free State government wished to shrink the National Army now that the civil war was over. Richard Mulcahy met this IRA leadership on a number of occasions but was very frustrated with them. In May 1923 the army had risen to 3,000 officers and 52,000 other ranks.\n\nDuring this time the state had to find its feet and day-to-day operations and services had to be provided. General Seán Mac Mahon paid an official visit to France 14 July to 31 July 1923. During which he laid a wreath on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. He was well received by the French Military and gained much information on the running of a professional army. There was some problem with wearing an Irish Military uniform but this appeared to come more from the British representatives in Paris.\n\nMulcahy did secure a redundancy package for the men that would have to leave the National Army and return to civilian life. Many found occupations within the civil and public services. Matters were moving along swiftly but the IRA organisation seemed deeply committed to the beliefs of the pre-truce ideals. They would refer to Mulcahy as Commander in Chief or Chief of Staff, when in fact he was the Minister of Defence and Seán Mac Mahon was the Chief of Staff and head of the National Army. They also mistakenly believed that Mulcahy was President of the IRB.\n\nThe Army Council by now accepted and took steps to action the Governments budgetary target of 1,300 officers and 30,000 other ranks by January 1924. The decisions now were not how many but who. The predicament the Army Council and in particular Mac Mahon and Mulcahy found themselves in was in large part due to their taking a stronger line against the IRA than would their political masters. Seán Mac Mahon feared the IRA organisation would turn the army \"into an armed mob\" instead of being\" Forced into a military machine that will be the right arm of any government the people wish to place in power\".\n\nCosgrave read the IRA’s ultimatum into the record of the Dáil. Reaction particularly from the Labour party was mild. Although Labour members did join the public outcry against the IRA organisation. Some such as McGrath characterised the \"Mutiny\" as a row between the IRA and the IRB about how the army should be reorganised.\n\nMulcahy offered the IRA organisation an interview with Seán Mac Mahon. Liam Tobin agreed to meet Mac Mahon provided he came as \"head of the Army\". This showed the continued failure of the IRA Organization to understand the new political realities of the new state. Mulcahy made the offer because Seán Mac Mahon was President of the IRB but Liam Tobin and the IRA Organisation were not even aware of this and the significance of the offer.\n\nAs a consequence of the Army crisis in 1924 Seán Mac Mahon along with the rest of the Army Council was asked to resign. He was initially reluctant to do this and his commission was therefore withdrawn. A committee of inquiry was formed and on their recommendation he was reinstated by the Executive Council and an apology given to him in the Dáil. His commission was actually withdrawn for just one day.\n\nHe returned to serve but not as Chief of General Staff.\n\nHe retired through ill health in January 1927. Asked to go into politics he declined. The Army provided him with a house, Coolgarif in Stillorgan. He only stayed here a short time before buying a house himself in Dundrum, then County Dublin now Dublin 14. The house was called Meadowbrook. Here he stayed with his wife, Lucinda and 3 children Terence (Terry), Kathleen (Kanki) and Seán (Seánog).\n\nHe died on 26 March 1955 and is buried with his wife and two of his children in Deansgrange cemetery. He received a full state funeral. A memorial committee formed and thanks to them his grave is marked with a Celtic cross.\n\nIn 1966 a new bridge at Boland’s Mill between Ringsend and Pearse Street was opened in his name. President Eamonn de Valera unveiled the plaques. Before the ceremony members of the Dublin Brigade IRA formed up outside 144 Pearse Street, the old Battalion HQ, under the command of Comdt Vincent Byrne and headed by a colour party under Mr P. Buttner and the St Brigid’s Brass Band they marched to the Seán Mac Mahon Bridge.\n\nThis bridge was rebuilt in 2008 and rededicated in his name on 30 May 2008.\n"}
{"id": "18654544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18654544", "title": "Steve Schmidt", "text": "Steve Schmidt\n\nStephen Edward Schmidt (born September 28, 1970) is an American communications and public affairs strategist who has worked on Republican political campaigns including those of President George W. Bush, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Arizona Senator John McCain. He is best known for pushing McCain to select Sarah Palin as his running mate. He specialized in \"message development and strategy\".\n\nSchmidt was the senior campaign strategist and advisor to the 2008 presidential campaign of Senator John McCain. He was a Vice Chair at the public relations firm Edelman until he stepped down in July 2018. \n\nIn June 2018, Schmidt renounced the Republican Party as \"fully the party of Trump\".\n\nThe son of a school teacher and a telecommunications executive, Schmidt grew up in North Plainfield, New Jersey where he became an Eagle Scout, a tight end on the high school football team, a two-year member of the National Honor Society, and senior class vice president. In 1988, he was one of two graduating seniors voted \"most likely to succeed\" by his classmates at North Plainfield High School. He handed out campaign materials for Democrat Bill Bradley's 1978 Senate campaign.\n\nSchmidt attended the University of Delaware from 1988 through the spring of 1993, majoring in political science. During this time, he registered as a Republican. He left three credits short of graduating because he did not pass a math course; Schmidt has said that he has been diagnosed with a learning disability that makes higher math difficult for him. He joined the Delta Tau Delta fraternity, was a member of the campus Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program, and did field work for Republican candidates in Delaware, sometimes wearing campaign buttons to class. Schmidt graduated in the class of 2013.\n\nSteve Schmidt and his wife Angela have three children.\n\nIn 1995, Schmidt managed the unsuccessful campaign for Kentucky Attorney General of Will T. Scott, who is now a Justice of the Kentucky Supreme Court. This Kentucky campaign's advertising strategy was featured in the second edition of \"George Magazine\".\n\nIn 1998, Schmidt ran California State Senator Tim Leslie's unsuccessful race for Lt. Governor of California. Also that year, he was the Communications Director for California State Treasurer Matt Fong's unsuccessful campaign to unseat U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer. In 1999, he was the Communications Director for Lamar Alexander's presidential run, leaving in June when the campaign reduced its senior staff.\n\nBy late 2000, Schmidt was communications director of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.\n\nIn 2001, he was the spokesman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, becoming the Communications Director by 2002.\n\nSchmidt joined the Bush administration as a Deputy Assistant to the President and Counselor to Vice President Dick Cheney. In 2004, he was a member of the senior strategic planning group, led by White House adviser Karl Rove, that ran President George W. Bush's re-election campaign; Schmidt oversaw the reelection \"war room\". In 2005 and 2006, he was the White House strategist responsible for the U.S. Supreme Court nominations of Samuel Alito and Chief Justice John Roberts.\n\nIn 2006, Schmidt left the White House to become the campaign manager in the re-election campaign for California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. From there, he became a partner in Mercury Public Affairs, part of Fleishman-Hillard International Communications, in charge of Mercury's operations in California.\n\nOn July 2, 2008, Schmidt was appointed to head up day-to-day operations of the McCain campaign in response to concerns that the campaign lacked coordination and a clear message. Rick Davis retained the formal title of \"campaign manager\".\n\n\"The New York Times\" described Schmidt's management as having transformed the McCain campaign into \"an elbows-out, risk-taking, disciplined machine\", crediting him with aggressive responses to press criticism and creative methods of manipulating the news cycle.\n\n\"Time\"'s Michael Scherer, in an opinion piece from September 15, 2008, relating to Schmidt's involvement with John McCain's presidential campaign stated that Schmidt, the \"lord of outrage, has a long and prosperous career ahead of him\".\n\nSchmidt voiced his support for gay rights at a meeting of the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay Republican group. He said: \"I just wanted to take a second to come by and pay my respect and the campaign's respect to your organization and to your group. Your organization is an important one in the fabric of our party.\"\n\nSchmidt said about his lesbian sister and her life partner: \"On a personal level, my sister and her partner are an important part of my life and our children's life. I admire your group and your organization and I encourage you to keep fighting for what you believe in because the day is going to come.\"\n\nIn February 2013, Schmidt along with 74 other Republicans co-signed an \"amicus\" brief to the Supreme Court of the United States in support of overturning Proposition 8. \"The die is cast on this issue when you look at the percentage of younger voters who support gay marriage\", he was quoted as saying. \"As Dick Cheney said years ago, 'Freedom means freedom for everybody.\n\nIn May 2018, when President Donald Trump moved the U.S. embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, sparking violent Gaza border protests, Schmidt said Trump \"has blood on his hands\".\n\nOn June 19, 2018, Schmidt formally withdrew from the GOP over Donald Trump's policy of separating immigrant families at the U.S. border with Mexico. He also cited Republican leadership for their failure to challenge the policy. Schmidt said of Trump, \"We have in America—right now, at this hour—to understand that you have a lawless president, a vile president, a corrupt president, a mean, cruel president, who is seeking to remake the world order.\"\n\nHe tweeted \"the Republican Party ... is fully the party of Trump. It is corrupt, indecent and immoral. With the exception of a few Governors like Baker, Hogan and Kasich it is filled with feckless cowards who disgrace and dishonor the legacies of the party's greatest leaders ... Today the GOP has become a danger to our democracy and our values.\"\n\nDescribing his new political orientation, he stated:\n\nSchmidt serves on the board of nonprofit research organization JUST Capital, alongside Arianna Huffington, Deepak Chopra, and others.\n\nIn August 2018 Schmidt launched a podcast with Elise Jordan focused on the Trump presidency.\n\nSchmidt is portrayed by Woody Harrelson in the HBO film \"Game Change\". The film, based on chapters of the book of the same title by political journalists John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, focuses on the choice of Sarah Palin as John McCain's running mate in the 2008 United States presidential election. Schmidt is shown as pushing for the choice of Palin, then afterward conceding she was unqualified for the job, including a limited knowledge of current affairs. Schmidt himself voiced his approval of the film, saying that \"it tells the truth of the campaign\" and that watching the film was tantamount to \"an out-of-body experience\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51569716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51569716", "title": "Sue Gilroy", "text": "Sue Gilroy\n\nSusan Fiona \"Sue\" Gilroy, (born 19 October 1972) is a British table tennis player and primary school teacher. She has competed in five Paralympic Games (2000, 2004, 2008, 2012, and 2016) and at the Commonwealth Games (2002 and 2006).\n\nGilroy began playing table tennis at the age of 12 but her Ehlers–Danlos syndrome (EDS) made her stop at 15; she also has Fibromyalgia and Chronic Pain Syndrome. She started playing again at the age of 18 in a wheelchair.\n\nCompeting for England she won a gold medal in singles at the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester and successfully defended her title in Melbourne in 2006.\n\nIn 2009, Gilroy was awarded an honorary doctorate by Sheffield Hallam University. In the 2009 Queen's Birthday Honours, she was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) \"for services to Disabled and Able-Bodied Table Tennis and to Sport for Young People.\".\n"}
{"id": "38855524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38855524", "title": "Teina Pora", "text": "Teina Pora\n\nTeina Pora is a New Zealander who was wrongfully convicted of murdering Susan Burdett when he was aged 17; he served time in Paremoremo prison from 1994 for the crime, until he received parole in 2014.\n\nIn 1992, 39-year-old Burdett was raped and murdered in her home in Papatoetoe, Auckland. She was repeatedly struck in the head with a softball bat. About a year later, Teina Pora who was a Mongrel Mob prospect at the time, was arrested on other charges and claimed he was there when the murder happened. He was subsequently convicted of rape and murder in 1994. Pora appealed his conviction, but in 2000, was found guilty for the crime a second time. After spending 20 years in prison, Pora was released on parole in April 2014. However, he maintained his innocence and the convictions were quashed by the Privy Council in March 2015. On 15 June 2016, he was awarded NZ$2.52 million compensation and received a government apology for being wrongfully convicted of rape and murder.\n\nTeina Pora was born with foetal alcohol spectrum disorder, caused by his mother's drinking during pregnancy. He grew up in Otara. His father was never around and his teenage mother died of cancer when he was four.\n\nAfter his mother's death, Pora lived with grandparents and other family members, including an aunt who tried to raise him as her own son. As a teenager he spent time in boys' homes but often ran away. His brother told TV3's \"3rd Degree\" programme that by the time he was a teenager, Pora was already doing \"heaps of crime\" but that \"he was never a violent person\".\n\nSusan Burdett was a 39-year-old accounts clerk who lived alone in Papatoetoe and enjoyed ten pin bowling. On 23 March 1992 she went bowling at the Manukau Superstrike. After she got home, she had a shower and was then raped and battered to death with a softball bat. When she was found, the softball bat, which she kept for her own protection, was found lying on the bed beside her.\n\nPora and some friends were walking through a park in Manukau a few days after the murder when they found an old softball bat in a drain. It was not the weapon used in the Burdett murder as this was found beside her body at the scene of the crime. Unaware of this, when Pora's aunt found out about the bat in the drain, she suggested to police that Pora may have committed the murder. Police responded by interviewing Pora in April 1992 and again in May 1992. On both occasions he denied any involvement and provided hair and DNA samples to police, which excluded him as a suspect. However, his aunt continued to put forward the view that Pora was involved but the police concluded her information was unreliable.\n\nPora was a prolific car thief and almost a year later, he was arrested for failing to attend court. In the course of a \"general conversation\" with a police officer, Pora \"told him of his troubled life, told the officer he wanted to go straight, that he felt unwanted by his family and that he knew he was being sought by the Mongrel Mob and police\". After police told him there was a reward of $20,000 for assistance in capturing Susan Burdett's murderer, Pora claimed he knew who committed the crime. He said he drove two Mongrel Mob members to the house and acted as lookout while they went inside.\n\nPora didn't give the names of the Mongrel Mob members, but when police put two names to him, he went along with these suggestions. Later on, police determined the two Mongrel Mob members both had alibis and their DNA did not match that found in the body. The DNA came from Malcolm Rewa but police didn't learn that until four years later.\n\nAfter claiming he was at the scene, Pora was held for the next four days during which he was questioned about the case for 14 hours - without a lawyer. During the course of this drawn out interview, much of which was recorded on video, he frequently changed his story about what happened. After initially claiming he acted as a lookout for the two Mongrel Mob members, he later said he went into the house after \"hearing noises and seeing the crimes being carried out\". Still later, he said he held Burdett down by the arms while the others raped her. Pora was subsequently charged with Burdett's rape and murder.\n\nIn 1995, once Pora was in prison, he provided three more names to police after they offered him another $50,000 and said they would help when he came up for parole.\n\nNo finger prints, DNA, or any other direct evidence linking Pora to the murder scene were produced in court. Nevertheless, despite the contradictory nature of Pora's 'confessions', the Crown successfully argued at his trial that no one would confess to being involved in such a brutal rape and murder if they were not actually involved. His aunt, Terry McLaughlin, was a key Crown witness at the trial. Court documents showed she was paid $5000 to testify against him at the trial. Police have refused Official Information Act requests about payments made to other witnesses against Pora but the NZ Herald reports that a minimum of three witnesses were paid and received a total of $15,000.\n\nIn 1999, Malcolm Rewa was convicted of raping Ms Burdett after semen at the crime scene was found to be his. He was also found guilty of raping numerous other women and is currently serving preventive detention for these attacks.\n\nRewa's offending went on for some years before the police finally brought him to justice. In 2014, TV3's 3rd Degree programme suggested police had overlooked Rewa's involvement in six different sexual assaults. The IPCA was then asked to investigate Rewa's offending including one particular sexual attack which occurred in 1987, five years before he raped Susan Burdett. Police eventually apologised to Malcolm Rewa's victims over the length of time it took to catch him and prevent any further offending.\n\nRewa was also charged with the murder of Susan Burdett. But by that time, Pora had already been convicted for this. Although Rewa was found guilty for sexually assaulting Ms Burdett on the night she died, the jury was unable to decide whether he was involved in her murder.\n\nPora appealed his conviction after the semen in Ms Burdett's body was found to belong to Malcolm Rewa. The Court of Appeal ordered a retrial and in 2000, Pora was found guilty a second time. Pora then applied for the Royal Prerogative of Mercy, under which the Governor-General can order a new trial. In May 2013, his legal team prepared an appeal to the Privy Council to have his convictions quashed which put his application for the Royal Prerogative of Mercy on hold.\n\nOver his 20 years in prison, Pora made numerous appearances before the parole board. At those hearings he repeatedly denied he had any part in Burdett's murder, which made it difficult for the board to grant him parole. His 12th attempt to be released on parole was declined in October 2013 after he admitted visiting a prostitute with a former inmate while on temporary leave. He was finally released in April 2014. At a monitoring hearing five months later, the board noted he was doing well but added: \"Given his lengthy time in prison, and limited education before (being) imprisoned, (reintegration) will be a difficult and necessarily slow process of which he is aware.\"\n\nOn 31 January 2014 the Judicial Committee announced that Pora had been granted permission to take his case to the Privy Council in London later in 2014. The hearing was held in November. Pora's lawyer Jonathan Krebs told the Privy Council his client had recently been diagnosed with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder and had a mental age of nine or 10 at the time of the crime. He said this disability meant Pora was easily confused, had a drive to please others, and that his confession in 1993 should therefore be seen as unreliable.\n\nQuestions were also asked about the people named by Pora as having committed the murder. One of the Privy Council judges, Lord Toulson asked New Zealand's Solicitor-General \"Why didn't Pora name [Malcolm] Rewa?\" The explanation given by Pora's lawyers was that \"Pora couldn't name Rewa because Pora didn't know him and because Pora wasn't there\". The Solicitor General, Michael Heron, disagreed saying that a number of people had testified to having seen Pora and Rewa together and argued that Pora had special knowledge about the crime indicating he was involved.\n\nThe Privy Council quashed Pora's convictions on 3 March 2015.\n\nOn 15 June 2016, Teina Pora was awarded NZ$2.52 million compensation and received a government apology for being wrongfully convicted of rape and murder. Retired High Court judge Rodney Hansen, QC, who was appointed by the government to review the case after the Privy Council quashed Pora's convictions, said he could have found Pora innocent on a higher standard than the balance of probabilities.\n\nIn July 2017, Pora appealed the amount awarded, submitting that it had been calculated on 1998 guidelines that awarded $100,000 per year, and had not been adjusted for inflation as recommended by Judge Hansen. The court upheld the appeal in August 2017. In September 2017, the general election resulted in a change of government, and incoming Justice Minister Andrew Little announced that the outgoing government's intention to appeal the decision would not go ahead and Pora's compensation would be increased to match inflation. A few days later Little announced Pora would receive an extra $988,099 bringing his total compensation to $3,509,048.\n\nTwo police officers expressed concerns that Pora was wrongly convicted. Detective Sergeant Dave Henwood, a criminal profiler, believed Rewa raped and murdered Mrs Burdett and acted alone, based on his knowledge of Rewa's criminal signature. He also thought the reason the juries failed to convict Rewa of the murder was that they could not reconcile this possibility with the knowledge that Pora had already been convicted for it. In 2012 a second senior officer, who also worked on the case, wrote to Police Commissioner Peter Marshall expressing his concern that the wrong man had been convicted. Susan's brother, Jim Burdett, also believed that Rewa was the one who raped and killed his sister. He believed Susan stood up for herself, that Rewa took the bat off her that she kept for self-defence and \"struck the blows that killed her\".\n\nWhen prosecuting Rewa, the police argued that Rewa and Pora committed the crime together. The difficulty with this view is that Rewa had a track record as a lone offender - a serial stalker and rapist who was convicted of attacks on 24 other women. Rewa and Pora also came from rival gangs and were significantly different in age; Rewa was 40 and a senior member of the Highway 61 gang while Pora was a 16-year-old Mongrel Mob associate. Evidence put to the Privy Council also suggested that Rewa suffered from erectile dysfunction and would have been unlikely to have had an accomplice because of his embarrassment about this.\n\nProfessor Laurence Alison, chair of forensic psychology at Liverpool University, concluded that it is \"highly unlikely\" Malcolm Rewa would have worked with any co-offender, let alone with Pora. He said: \"These conclusions would have been much harder to arrive at at the time of Teina Pora's appeal since far less was known about behavioural profiling and specific co-offending patterns in rape.\n\nAccording to \"The New Zealand Herald\" investigative reporter, Phil Taylor, who wrote extensively about the case, Pora's 'confession' was flawed. He \"couldn't find the street Burdett lived in, couldn't point out her house when police stood him in front of it, described Burdett as fair and fat when she was dark and slim, didn't know the (victim's) bed was a waterbed...couldn't describe the house layout... didn't know the position her body was left in, (and) said she screamed and yelled when her closest neighbour heard only a series of dull thuds. And those he claimed had raped her were all cleared by DNA.\"\n\nGisli Gudjonsson, professor of forensic psychology at the Institute of Psychiatry, King's College, London, was asked to review the nine hours of videotaped interviews and talked with Pora in prison. Gudjonsson is an authority on how people can be induced to make false \"confessions\". He said Pora's confessions were the result of intellectual impairment and his desire to claim the $20,000 reward - Pora was told there was an \"indemnity against prosecution for non-principal offenders\". Gudjonsson believed the convictions were \"fundamentally flawed and unsafe\".\n\nIn 2013, the Police Association officially called for a review of Pora's conviction, citing \"sufficient concern among some senior detectives to warrant an inquiry\".\n\nThe Māori Party also backed an inquiry in the case. A documentary about his case titled \"The Confessions of Prisoner T\" was aired on Maori Television on 5 May 2013. It featured defence lawyer, Marie Dyhrberg, who said that out of all the criminals she has ever been involved with, she believed in Pora's innocence more than any other. In response to the documentary, the Green Party also called for a review. Green Party spokesman David Clendon wrote to Police Commissioner Peter Marshall asking him to reopen the case. He said \"serious misconduct by police was rare in New Zealand\", but \"it was important to maintain the public's faith in the justice system by holding a review\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8896819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8896819", "title": "Tom Bianchi", "text": "Tom Bianchi\n\nTom Bianchi (born 1945 in Oak Park, Illinois) is an American writer and photographer who specializes in male nude photography.\n\nHis 21 books of photographs, poems, and essays primarily cover the gay male experience.\n\nIn 1990, St. Martin's Press published \"Out of the Studio\", Bianchi's book of male nudes, frankly gay and affectionally connected. Thereafter, 20 of Bianchi's books have been published, three documentary films about Bianchi's work have been distributed, and Bianchi's work has been published in more than thirty anthologies on the male nude. His \"On the Couch\" series, \"Deep Sex\", \"Erotic Triggers\" and \"Fine Art Sex\" deal with the expression of conscious sexual energy. His most recent book, made with his partner, Ben Smales, is \"Fire Island Pines Polaroids 1975–1983\". The book was honored by \"Time\" magazine's list of the Best Photo Books of 2013.\n\nBianchi was born and raised in the suburbs of Chicago. He earned a law degree at Northwestern University and practiced corporate law for ten years. At thirty-four, he left his position as senior counsel at Columbia Pictures, tore up his law degree, pasted it into a painting and had his first one-man show with Betty Parsons and Carol Dreyfuss in New York. Shortly thereafter, he had his first major museum retrospective at the Spoleto Festival in 1984.\n\nBianchi studied political science at the University of New Mexico, and subsequently law at Northwestern University. He worked as a lawyer in Chicago and Washington, D.C. Bianchi resides in Palm Springs, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "887155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=887155", "title": "Wilfred Le Bouthillier", "text": "Wilfred Le Bouthillier\n\nWilfred Le Bouthillier (born May 12, 1978) is an Acadian singer from the town of Tracadie-Sheila, New Brunswick and the winner of the 2003 edition of Star Académie, a Quebec reality show for aspiring singers.\n\nHe is known simply by his first name, Wilfred. His debut album \"Wilfred Le Bouthillier\" was released in the autumn of 2003. Produced with the assistance of Cajun singer Zachary Richard, it proved to be an enviable success, selling over 200,000 copies. This is exceptional for an artist in Quebec. By way of comparison, this would be equivalent to selling more than 8 million copies of an English-language album in the United States.\n\nAmong his awards and distinctions, Wilfred has received several \"Prix Étoiles\" (in Acadie). He took home the Juno Award for Francophone Album of the Year for his debut album, \"Wilfred Le Bouthillier\". He was also nominated in several categories during the Quebec l'ADISQ 2005 gala, including one nomination in the Best Seller category. At the 16th SOCAN gala, his song \"Je Ferai Tout,\" was listed among the top ten most played francophone songs on the radio.\n\nWilfred recorded a follow-up album in 2005 called \"Poussières\". This album was another success for the artist, classified as the second best-selling album in Quebec and the twelfth best-seller in Canada. The first song released from that album, \"Avec Toi,\" made it to the top 5 in the top 100 radio BDS countdown while the video also placed the song in the top 5 on Musique Plus and Musimax (the Francophone version of MuchMusic).\n\nAt the end of August, 2007, \"L'insignifiant,\" also from the album \"Poussières,\" was sitting at number seven on Quebec's \"Top 50 Radio Correspondants Francophone.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8734626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8734626", "title": "Zafeirakis Theodosiou", "text": "Zafeirakis Theodosiou\n\nZafeirakis Theodosiou () (1772 - 1822) was a Greek \"prokritos\" (πρόκριτος), meaning political leader of Greeks during Ottoman rule, of Naousa, Imathia and an important figure of the Greek War of Independence in the region of Macedonia.\n\nZafeirakis was born in Naousa, Imathia originating from a wealthy family that gave him the opportunity to educate himself to the most important institutions of his time. He studied at Ioannina where he spent most of his youth. \nAt that time, Ali Pasha was ruling the area and valuing Zafeirakis' skills took him under his protection and later appointed him to administrate Naoussa when he extended his influence to Central Macedonia.\n\nBut Zafeirakis quickly opposed Ali Pasha's authoritative administration. As a result, Ali Pasha turned against him and he was forced to abandon his place for Thessaloniki and later Mount Athos and Constantinople. There he was associated with Ottoman authorities and twelve years later he managed to receive an order from the Sultan to return to his previous\ncommand to Naussa where he stayed until his death.\n\nHe became very popular to his fellow citizens by promoting local manufactures, especially those that had to do with weaponry, building schools, churches and road construction. Around 1820 he was introduced into Filiki Eteria and came close with Anastasios Karatasos and Aggelis Gatsos, assigning them to protect his area. He personally organised the liberation of Naoussa on February 19, 1822, becoming one of the first liberated cities in Macedonia during the Revolution.\nHowever, in April the Pasha of Thessaloniki himself besieged Naoussa with 18,000 men and two weeks later he managed to regain control over the city. Zafeirakis and his family lost their lives during the following pillage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32603295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32603295", "title": "Zaira Nara", "text": "Zaira Nara\n\nZaira Tatiana Nara (; born 15 August 1988) is an Argentine model and TV host.\n\nSister of Wanda Nara, Zaira in 2010, according to FHM magazine, was ranked 47 of the world's sexiest women in 2010.\nZaira Nara has modelled for brands such as Herbal Essences, McDonald's, La Serenísima, Gillette, Pantene and Falabella. She has also been featured in the cover of the Argentine editions of \"Cosmopolitan\" and \"Women's Health\".\n\nZaira Nara was born in Boulogne Sur Mer, Argentina. She began her career as a child model and professionally in adolescence for the agency Dotto Models, but later in 2008 she left Dotto Models to join Chekka Buenos Aires the agency of Mauricio Catarain, in which Zaira won numerous advertising contracts to be the image of prestigious brands of clothing, lingerie and cosmetics. Actually is part of Multitalent Agency.\nIn 2010, Zaira competed as a contestant in the Marcelo Tinelli's show \"Bailando 2010\", being eliminated 9th, and Zaira was the host of \"La Cocina del Show\". In 2011, Zaira won the pink soccer ball and replaced her sister Wanda in \"Bailando 2011\" when the latter left the show because of her pregnancy.\n\nOn 9 March 2011, after 2 years of love story, Diego Forlán announced on his Twitter page that he and Zaira were engaged to be married: however, in June 2011, Diego Forlán and Zaira Nara announced they were breaking their engagement and she stated «Now what I can say is thank goodness I didn't get married!» after the breakup. Zaira, from October 2011 to November 2014, was dating tennis player Juan Mónaco. Zaira got engaged to Jakob Von Plessen in April 2015; the couple announced Zaira's first pregnancy in October 2015; Zaira and Jakob have a daughter, Malaika, born on 6 April 2016.\n\n\n\n[[Category:1988 births]]\n[[Category:Living people]]\n[[Category:Argentine female models]]\n[[Category:People from Buenos Aires Province]]\n[[Category:Footballers' wives and girlfriends]]"}
