{"id": "26012291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26012291", "title": "10:23 Campaign", "text": "10:23 Campaign\n\nThe 10:23 Campaign is an awareness and protest campaign against homoeopathy organised by the Merseyside Skeptics Society, a non-profit organisation, to oppose the sale of homoeopathic products in the United Kingdom. The campaign has staged public \"overdoses\" of homoeopathic preparations.\n\nIn 2004, the Belgian skeptical organisation SKEPP made headlines when thirty skeptics at Ghent University performed a \"mass suicide stunt\" with an overdose of homeopathically diluted snake poison, belladonna and arsenic, in an attempt to publicly show that homeopathy does not work. When Belgian skeptics met with Merseyside Skeptics during a Skeptics in the Pub in 2010, the idea was adopted to hold an international event.\n\nThe campaign's name, 10:23, is a reference to Avogadro's number, which is approximately 6.022 x 10.\n\nThe campaign aims to raise awareness of implausible and unsubstantiated claims made by homoeopaths. It opposes high street retailers, such as Boots UK, stocking homoeopathic remedies alongside mainstream medicines, saying that \"the support lent by Boots to this quack therapy contributes directly to its acceptance as a valid medical treatment by the British public, acceptance it does not warrant and support it does not deserve.\"\n\nThe organisers state that homoeopathy is \"an unscientific and absurd pseudoscience\", and that, according to their statement, \"There is nothing in it.\" They question the ethics of selling treatments to the public which have not been proven to be efficacious and are widely disregarded by the scientific community.\n\nOn 30 January 2010, members participated in a protest involving a mass overdose of homoeopathic products to demonstrate its inefficacy. Many protesters stood outside branches of Boots UK, other shops selling homoeopathic products, and other prominent public spaces and took 84 pills each of \"arsenicum album\", 20 times the recommended dose.\n\nA second overdose was organised for 5–6 February 2011. Worldwide, the campaign received commitments of participation from 70 cities in 30 countries. In the United Kingdom, events took place in Manchester, as part of the QED Conference, and Cardiff. The original Belgian SKEPP and the Dutch organisations Vereniging tegen de Kwakzalverij and Stichting Skepsis also participated in the worldwide 10:23 Campaign. They carried out their tongue-in-cheek suicide attempt in Brussels and Amsterdam specifically to protest the recognition of homeopathic preparations by the European Parliament. Czech Sisyfos organization joined this happening when its members tried to publicly overdose themselves in Prague.\n\nIn April 2012, at the Berkeley SkeptiCal conference, over 100 people participated in a mass overdose, taking \"caffea cruda\", which is intended to treat sleeplessness.\n\nThere have been no reports of ill effects following any of the overdoses.\n\nNotable scientists and public figures have shown support for the 10:23 Campaign, including Phil Plait, James Randi Educational Foundation, Simon Singh, Steven Novella, Penn Jillette, and the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science.\n\nJames Randi invited advocates and retailers of homoeopathy to take the One Million Dollar Paranormal Challenge to prove that homoeopathy was efficacious to win a prize and has himself overdosed on homoeopathic sleeping pills as part of his stage show.\n\nThe campaign gained international coverage in the press from \"The Australian\", \"The Medical Observer\", BBC, \"The Independent\", \"The Telegraph,\" and \"The Guardian\".\n\nThe British Homeopathic Association dismissed the 10:23 Campaign as \"grossly irresponsible\", describing the public overdose as dangerous, and claimed that the participants had no understanding of how to select remedies appropriately.\n\nMelbourne-based Dr Ken Harvey told \"Pharmacy News\" \"the campaign would raise awareness of the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) transparency review and concerns over homeopathic products.\"\n"}
{"id": "37242275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37242275", "title": "Annica Dahlström", "text": "Annica Dahlström\n\nAnnica Dahlström (born 1941) is a Swedish physician and Professor Emerita of Histology and Neuroscience at the Department of Medical Chemistry and Cell Biology at Gothenburg University.\n\nDahlström's research focuses on how nerve cells store and transport signals, but she has also published research on many other areas of histology and neuroscience. Dahlström has published over 340 scientific papers. She earned her doctorate at 25 as the youngest Swedish physician to earn a doctorate. She was Professor of Histology and Neuroscience at Gothenburg University from 1983 until her 2008 retirement.\n\nDahlström has taken part in the debate on the relationship between gender and brain function. In 2007, she published the book \"Könet sitter i hjärnan\" (The gender is in the brain), which she described as a concentrate of the last 15 years of international research on the brain and how the brain affects human behavior.\nThis book, mostly referencing studies performed before 1990, has been publicly criticized for inaccuracies.\n\nHer most cited scientific paper, \"Evidence for the existence of monoamine-containing neurons in the central nervous system,\" was cited over 5,500 times as of 2013.\n"}
{"id": "45701140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45701140", "title": "Aqueduct of Luynes", "text": "Aqueduct of Luynes\n\nThe Luynes aqueduct is a former Gallo-Roman bridge aqueduct located in Luynes, France.\n\nThe remains show a stack of five arches and it is the most famous Roman monument in the Department of Indre-et-Loire, despite its modest dimensions. It is also one of the best preserved of the Northern aqueducts. It was classified a historical monument in 1862 and is owned by the town of Luynes.\n\nIt originally had a total length of , almost in a straight line, including of raised causeway. Its underground portion, and in particular its final journey, passes the hamlet of Villeronde. Only a portion of the aqueduct-bridge is now visible as it passes through the \"Valley of the Arennes\".\n\nThe actual channel for the water is masonry and not a lead or Terra cotta piping and has a slope of 1.5 cm to 2.9 m per kilometre. The maximum height of the arches of the aqueduct is 8.90 m.\n\nThe remains of the aqueduct-bridge are located 1.5 km northeast of the centre of Luynes, in Indre-et-Loire. It has a general orientation of north-northeast to south-southwest, taking water from the now dry Pie Noire (or Pinnoire), and is believed to have supplied water to ancient Luynes, or even Caesarodunum.\n\nIt has been conjectured, however, that the aqueduct was privately owned and serviced the complex of private villas at Sainte-Roselle.\nIts construction has not yet been dated with certainty; the construction style would indicate the 2nd or 3rd century, like the resort that it fed.\n\nIt remained in use until the 12th or 13th century and has been the subject of several repair campaigns, especially at the beginning of the 10th century, under Charles the Simple, which is why it has survived so well, even if number of stones of its collapsed batteries had to be recovered and used. This suggests that its use has changed throughout this period, despite the abandonment of the seaside resort of Sainte-Roselle.\n"}
{"id": "1981235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1981235", "title": "Auchan", "text": "Auchan\n\nGroupe Auchan SA () is a French international retail group and multinational corporation headquartered in Croix, France. It is one of the world's principal distribution groups (337,900 employees) with a presence in France and 15 countries.\n\nThe company began when Gérard Mulliez opened his first self-service shop in Roubaix in the district of Hauts-Champs, the pronunciation of which is nearly identical to that of \"Auchan\".\n\nAuchan has branches in France, and internationally in China, Hungary, India, Iraq, Italy, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, San Marino, Spain, Ukraine and Vietnam.\n\nAuchan had 639 hypermarkets and 2874 supermarkets around the world.\n\nAuchan SA is controlled by the Mulliez family, one of the wealthiest in France and in Europe. The Mulliez family has interests in a large number of companies.\n\nThe slogan of the company was \"La Vie, La Vraie\", which translates into English as \"Life, the real one\". The slogan was changed in 2007 to: \"La vie Auchan, elle change la vie\" – \"Auchan's lifestyle changes life (itself)\".\n\nNotes:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> — stores owned by franchise partners\n‡ — re-branded formerly Real hypermarkets\nx — branded Alcampo in Spain\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> — branded Jumbo in Portugal\n\nAuchan opened its first store in Shanghai in 1999, and according to the Auchan (China) Investment Co. Ltd. official report in 2009, there are 114 stores opened nationwide in China. Suzhou Jinji Lake store that is located in Suzhou Industrial Park had nine million population during that fiscal year with over four hundred million turnover and became one of the biggest Auchan hypermarkets in the world. Suzhou store expanded in 2008 and is the biggest Auchan Hypermarket in China, the second biggest in the world. Also, Auchan China led to open its online shopping website for the stores in Shanghai and Suzhou.\n\nAuchan offers online shopping only in those two cities so far and is opening in Suzhou its first AuchanDrive store, based on its French model (click & go) in May 2012. The AuchanDrive service allows customers to purchase groceries online for home delivery, these locations being examples of online supermarkets in China.\n\nSince 2017, a number of unmanned convenience stores, marketed as BingoBox, are being operated by Auchan in China.\n\nAuchan (branded as Aшан) has been active on the Russian market since 2002 and had over 100 hypermarkets in the country by December 2016. It's the company's third largest market, after France and China. Revenues for the country reached $5 billion in 2014, ranking third behind the local retailers X5 Retail Group and Magnit. In 2016 it was ranked first in a list of the largest foreign-owned companies by the Russian edition of Forbes.\n\nAuchan previously did business in the United States from 1988 to 2003 as Auchan Hypermarket under its subsidiary, Auchan USA, who was the successor of interest to Texfield Inc. By the time of its closing it was the only French hypermarket chain to still operate American stores, as other hypermarket chains, such as Carrefour and E.Leclerc (under the guise of Leedmark) gave up in the United States market around \n1993-1994. \n\nThe first American Auchan (pronounced by Houstonians as “o-shawn”) store opened in western Houston in 1988. The hypermarket was located on a plot of land on Beltway 8, north of U.S. Route 59. The store was one of the first hypermarkets to open in the U.S,\nafter Walmart debuted Hypermart USA in 1987, a year prior to Auchan debuting in America. David Kaplan of the \"Houston Chronicle\" said \"it was fairly unusual and became something of a tourist attraction\" when it had first opened, as it was big enough to house lots of small businesses in front, such as a travel agency, a jewelry store, a bank, and a food court containing a Taco Bell, McDonald’s, and Pizza Hut. It also featured a huge cheese selection, a huge beer and wine selection, featuring local breweries such as Celis White, and a bakery, and like most hypermarkets operating in the U.S. in the late ’80s, as well as Aldi, Auchan also made customers use quarters to use the shopping carts, and in order to appeal to Houstonians, it had a huge seafood selection, as well as rodeo wear. \n\nAuchan also opened a store in the Chicago suburb of Bridgeview, Illinois, in 1989. It only sold food, and it was not as large as the Houston store. In 1991 the store closed. It was later bought by a local Chicago supermarket chain, Dominick's, and converted into an Omni Superstore by 1991.\n\nAuchan's second Greater Houston location opened in southeast Houston in September 2000, in a former Target store, which Auchan heavily renovated (and partially built up on) prior to opening, the most obvious example being the entrances, designed to make it look huge, despite its past as a Target. Kaplan said, \"Auchan had solid business its first years, but with only two stores in the country, the company lacked buying power and economy-of-scale advantages.\" In early January 2003 Auchan announced that both of its U.S. stores were making losses and were going to be closed; Auchan stated that it was instead going to concentrate its expansion in Asia and Europe, and on January 6, 2003, Auchan closed the two money-losing stores, ending all American operations after 15 years. Auchan USA sold its first Houston location to Ho Enterprises. Lewis Food Town occupied about of the space, with the rest of the space taken by other tenants, which makes the store a bit like a mini-mall today. Kaplan said that by 2003, \"the Houston market is saturated with huge discounters and large grocery stores.\" In addition, many similar stores, including an H-E-B Food and Drug Store, the Hong Kong Supermarket, a Sam's Club, and a Wal-Mart had opened in proximity to the west Houston Auchan. In Europe, zoning laws would prevent such a high concentration of similar stores. Kaplan further added that \"In Europe, shopping malls are not as prevalent as they are in America, and Auchan's everything-under-one-roof concept has greater appeal\" in Europe rather than in the United States. The second former Auchan is now used by a local scaffolding company, and was used as a shelter for Hurricane Katrina victims in 2005 and Hurricane Ike victims in 2008 due to its large space.\n\n\n\nAuchan opened a number of stores in Mexico; the first of these opened in Mexico City in 1997 and eventually grew to five stores. Faced with stiff competition from Wal-Mart, as well as local superstore chains Gigante and Comercial Mexicana, and French rival Carrefour (who also sold their stores and left the country in March 2005), Auchan decided to sell their stores to Comercial Mexicana and withdrew from Mexico in early 2003, most of these stores were to Soriana in 2015.\n\nIn 1997 Auchan sold its hypermarkets in Thailand to Groupe Casino.\n\nIn 2007 Auchan sold its Argentine stores to Wal-Mart and withdrew from the country.\n\nFollowing a conflict with its Moroccan partner ONA, Auchan sold its 49% share in August 2007.\n\nIn January 2011 Auchan dropped out of the Dubai market after just two years.\n\nSun Art Retail Group Ltd., the Chinese hypermarket operator backed by Auchan will go Public in Hong Kong at 15 July 2011 with hope to raise about $1 billion.\n\nOn 24 April 2013, the eight-story \"Rana Plaza\" commercial building collapsed in Savar, a sub-district near Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh. At least 1,127 people died and over 2,438 were injured. The factory housed a number of separate garment factories employing around 5,000 people, several shops, and a bank and manufactured apparel for brands including the Benetton Group, Joe Fresh, The Children's Place, Primark, Monsoon, and DressBarn. Of the 29 brands identified as having sourced products from the Rana Plaza factories, only 9 attended meetings held in November 2013 to agree a proposal on compensation to the victims. Several companies refused to sign including Walmart, Carrefour, Mango, Auchan and Kik. The agreement was signed by Primark, Loblaw, Bonmarché and El Corte Ingles.\n\n"}
{"id": "21185721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21185721", "title": "Bio-geoengineering", "text": "Bio-geoengineering\n\nBio-geoengineering is a form of climate engineering which seeks to use or modify plants or other living things to modify the Earth's climate.\n\nBio-energy with carbon storage, afforestation projects, and ocean nourishment (including iron fertilization) could be considered examples of bio-geoengineering.\n\nBiogenic aerosols can be grown to replace those beneficial aerosols lost as the result of the death of 50% of Earth's boreal forests. Agricultural production of atmospheric aerosols called \"monoterpenes\" is possible if crops that are rich in monoterpenes are grown.\n"}
{"id": "52356281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356281", "title": "Cannabis in Venezuela", "text": "Cannabis in Venezuela\n\nCannabis in Venezuela is illegal. As of 15 September 2010 possession of up to 20 grams of marijuana or 5 grams of genetically modified marijuana, if proven not to be for medical or personal consumption, is punishable by 1 to 2 years in prison at judge's discretion. If deemed to be for personal consumption, the user is subject to security measures involving rehabilitation and detoxification procedures. Articulos 131 y 153 de la Ley Organica de Drogas.\n"}
{"id": "32481773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32481773", "title": "Capital punishment in Papua New Guinea", "text": "Capital punishment in Papua New Guinea\n\nIn Papua New Guinea (PNG), also officially known as the Independent State of Papua New Guinea, capital punishment (also called the \"death penalty\" or \"execution\") is a legal form of punishment. Despite its legality, capital punishment has not been imposed in PNG in over sixty years. The last known execution took place under the colonial administration of Australia. The last execution is understood to have been done by way of hanging and took place in the capital city of PNG, Port Moresby, in November 1954.\n\nWithin the Pacific Islands Forum, all countries (albeit PNG) have either completely abolished capital punishment or have refrained from imposing it for numerous decades. The use of capital punishment in PNG has fluctuated throughout history and has again become unsettled in recent years.\n\nSince 1954, PNG appeared to have maintained a strong \"long-standing de facto moratorium\" which was later passed into law. The complete abolishment of capital punishment occurred in 1970 whilst PNG was still under the colonial administration of Australia. However, in 1973, PNG took the first step towards becoming independent and began the process of self governance. Two years later in 1975, Australia gave up its remaining powers over PNG, allowing the country to proceed to complete independence.\n\nIn August 1991 the Government of PNG re-introduced capital punishment as an amendment to the PNG Criminal Code Act 1974. At this point its application was limited to cases of wilful murder, but the imposition of the death penalty would not be mandatory and therefore be \"at the discretion of the Judge.\" The re-introduction of capital punishment into legislation was greeted with a mixed response not only in PNG but throughout the world. The Government at the time justified its actions by arguing that it was aligning legislation to reflect public perception that there was a necessity to deter abhorrent behaviour. According to Bernard Narokobi (the Justice Minister at the time), \"it reflected the community's outrage and disgust\" to heinous criminal offences. Despite his support for Papua New Guinean communities to express their views, Narokobi made it clear that he did not endorse the move towards the re-introduction of capital punishment. However, the country's Prime Minister at the time, Rabbie Namaliu, argued that the alarming deterioration in the country's enforcement of law and order was a threat to the country's future and needed to be dealt with. On the contrary, there was also strong opposition for the re-introduction of capital punishment. Amnesty International pleaded that PNG addressed the deterioration of law and order in other ways and declared that Amnesty International \"opposed the death penalty in all cases on the grounds that it is a violation of the human right to life.\"\n\nIn 2010, Manfred Nowak undertook a comprehensive review of PNG's use of \"torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\" and subsequently recommended that PNG took immediate steps to abolish the death penalty. Following this, Nowak also suggested that PNG become party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (the ICCPR) and ratify the second optional protocol, aimed at abolishing the death penalty worldwide.\n\nHowever, in May 2013 PNG took further steps to revive the use of capital punishment, simultaneously amending legislation to reflect harsher punishments for a variety of criminal offences. Due to the failed deterrence of criminal offences following the 1991 Criminal Code amendment, the government subsequently passed another amendment to the Criminal Code. Under earlier versions of the PNG Criminal Code, offences of treason, piracy and attempted piracy were also punishable by death. In addition, the 2013 amendment allowed that aggravated rape and robbery, alongside wilful murder would be punishable by death. Concurrently, the Government repealed the Sorcery Act 1971 therefore making sorcery-related murder also punishable by death. The Prime Minister (past and present) Peter O'Neill stated \"the proposed laws are tough, but they are necessary. We have to address a situation which is destroying our country.\" The amendments came into force on 18 September 2013.\n\nThroughout 2014, PNG's actions indicated that it was moving closer towards reinitiating capital punishment since its re-introduction in 1991 and broadened scope in 2013. The Constitutional Law Reform Commission (Commission) discussed the death penalty in a public forum which was held in November 2014 following the report given to the PNG Government on preferred execution methods.\n\nOn 5 February 2015 the Secretary of the Department of Justice and Attorney General of PNG, Lawrence Kalinoe indicated that there are currently 13 people on death row in PNG. All of whom have exhausted their appeals and will likely be executed this year. Kalinoe also confirmed that the PNG government had \"approved an interagency committee to oversee the implementation of the death penalty.\" A new facility will be built at Bomana Prison in Port Moresby to accommodate the executions of the 13 people currently on death row.\n\nOn 20 February 1995 Charles Bougapa Ombusu was the first person to be sentenced to death after PNG's re-introduction of capital punishment in 1991, following his supposed \"fatal shooting of the father of a girl he had raped\" in Popondetta, Northern Province. Ombusu was later acquitted in April 1995. The Supreme Court found that Ombusu had acted in self-defence. Critics of capital punishment have raised concerns that this form of punishment risks executing innocent people. Since 1995 other death sentences have been handed down, but no executions have been carried out due to an absence of regulations surrounding the appropriate process.\n\nOn 2 December 1995, the three appellants were among a group of nine who abducted and brutally killed a woman. The trial judge deemed the facts of the case to accord with the worst kind of wilful murder and thus sentenced each of the appellants to death. The issue in the case on appeal was whether or not the trial judge had erred in reaching the conclusion of imposing the death sentence. The question was essentially whether or not there were \"extenuating circumstances or mitigating factors which warranted lesser punishment\" than the death penalty. The PNG Supreme Court quashed the death sentences imposed on each appellant and concluded that without further guidance from legislation, \"Parliament may wish to consider prescribing the types of aggravating circumstances in wilful murder cases which warrant the death penalty.\" Or further, clarify when \"extenuating circumstances\" are relevant. Finally, the PNG Supreme Court concluded with situations in which the imposition of the death penalty would be more appropriate;\nApplying this case, prosecutors are to determine whether the death penalty is the appropriate sentence in light of the facts and circumstances of the particular case.\n\nThe preferred method of capital punishment in PNG is hanging. Whilst precise statistics of all execution cases are unknown, it is known that \"at least 67 people were executed by hanging\" under the colonial administration of Australia, United Kingdom and Germany between World War I and World War II.\n\nFollowing the 2013 amendment of the Criminal Code, the government introduced capital punishment by way of lethal injection, depravation of oxygen (\"medical\" asphyxiation), firing squad and electrocution in addition to the pre-existing option of hanging. With the addition of four alternate methods of execution, the Commission was requested to report on the best method of execution and the most appropriate for PNG to utilise. The Commission travelled to countries with experience in capital punishment: United States, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Singapore \"in order to provide advice to the government on what methods of execution should be adopted.\"\n\nFollowing the report by the Commission, the PNG Cabinet endorsed hanging, firing squad and lethal injection as appropriate execution methods. One of these three methods would likely be used if an offence punishable by death is committed and a sentence of capital punishment is imposed.\n\nThere are three situations in which a sentence of capital punishment may be adjusted or denied; individuals under 18 years of age at the time the offence was committed; pregnant women; and mentally ill persons.\n\nIf a person under the age of 18 commits a criminal offence that is punishable by death, they will not be executed. PNG has ratified the ICCPR and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), both of which are international instruments that prohibit the execution of a person under 18.\n\nIf a pregnant woman is sentenced to capital punishment, she may request to have the execution stayed (delayed) until after the birth of the child. This is provided that it is sufficiently proven that she is in fact pregnant.\n\nA person with the incapacity to understand or control their actions will not be liable for a criminal offence which they have committed. Secondly a person who commits an offence due to a delusion will only be \"held liable insofar as the delusion would support criminal liability if it were true.\"\n\nPNG is governed by a mixture of national and international laws and regulations.\n\nPNG has two notable pieces of legislation concerning capital punishment. The Criminal Code Act 1974 and the Constitution of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (Constitution) are at the forefront of the law. Imposing capital punishment for wilful murder in PNG is prescribed in section 299(2) of the Criminal Code Act 1974 and is validated by the country's constitution. The \"right to life\" provision states \"no person shall be deprived of his life intentionally except...in execution of a sentence of a court following his conviction of an offence for which the penalty of death is prescribed by law”. The provision concerning the \"freedom from inhuman treatment\" confirms that the killing of a person under section 35(1)(a) does not contravene section 36(1). Therefore, confirming that imposing a sentence of capital punishment is legal in PNG.\n\nThe ICCPR and the CRC are fundamental human rights documents both of which PNG is a party to. On 21 July 2008, PNG ratified the ICCPR. However PNG is not party to the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which is predominately aimed at abolishing the death penalty. In the same year, PNG abstained from the vote on the UN moratorium on the death penalty and went on to oppose a similar notion in 2011. PNG signed the CRC on 30 September 1990 and ratified it on 2 March 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5738", "title": "Cervix", "text": "Cervix\n\nThe cervix or cervix uteri (\"\") is the lower part of the uterus in the human female reproductive system. The cervix is usually 2 to 3 cm long (~1 inch) and roughly cylindrical in shape, which changes during pregnancy. The narrow, central cervical canal runs along its entire length, connecting the uterine cavity and the lumen of the vagina. The opening into the uterus is called the internal os, and the opening into the vagina is called the external os. The lower part of the cervix, known as the vaginal portion of the cervix (or ectocervix), bulges into the top of the vagina. The cervix has been documented anatomically since at least the time of Hippocrates, over 2,000 years ago.\n\nThe cervical canal is a passage through which sperm must travel to fertilize an egg cell after sexual intercourse. Several methods of contraception, including cervical caps and cervical diaphragms, aim to block or prevent the passage of sperm through the cervical canal. Cervical mucus is used in several methods of fertility awareness, such as the Creighton model and Billings method, due to its changes in consistency throughout the menstrual period. During vaginal childbirth, the cervix must flatten and dilate to allow the fetus to progress along the birth canal. Midwives and doctors use the extent of the dilation of the cervix to assist decision-making during childbirth.\n\nThe cervical canal is lined with a single layer of column-shaped cells, while the ectocervix is covered with multiple layers of cells topped with flat cells. The two types of epithelia meet the squamocolumnar junction. Infection with the human papillomavirus (HPV) can cause changes in the epithelium, which can lead to cancer of the cervix. Cervical cytology tests can often detect cervical cancer and its precursors, and enable early successful treatment. Ways to avoid HPV include avoiding sex, using condoms, and HPV vaccination. HPV vaccines, developed in the early 21st century, reduce the risk of cervical cancer by preventing infections from the main cancer-causing strains of HPV.\n\nThe cervix is part of the female reproductive system. Around in length, it is the lower narrower part of the uterus continuous above with the broader upper part—or body—of the uterus. The lower end of the cervix bulges through the anterior wall of the vagina, and is referred to as the vaginal portion of cervix (or ectocervix) while the rest of the cervix above the vagina is called the supravaginal portion of cervix. A central canal, known as the cervical canal, runs along its length and connects the cavity of the body of the uterus with the lumen of the vagina. The openings are known as the internal os and external orifice of the uterus (or external os) respectively. The mucosa lining the cervical canal is known as the endocervix, and the mucosa covering the ectocervix is known as the exocervix. The cervix has an inner mucosal layer, a thick layer of smooth muscle, and posteriorly the supravaginal portion has a serosal covering consisting of connective tissue and overlying peritoneum.\n\nIn front of the upper part of the cervix lies the bladder, separated from it by cellular connective tissue known as parametrium, which also extends over the sides of the cervix. To the rear, the supravaginal cervix is covered by peritoneum, which runs onto the back of the vaginal wall and then turns upwards and onto the rectum, forming the recto-uterine pouch. The cervix is more tightly connected to surrounding structures than the rest of the uterus.\n\nThe cervical canal varies greatly in length and width between women or over the course of a woman's life, and it can measure 8 mm (0.3 inch) at its widest diameter in premenopausal adults. It is wider in the middle and narrower at each end. The anterior and posterior walls of the canal each have a vertical fold, from which ridges run diagonally upwards and laterally. These are known as \"palmate folds\", due to their resemblance to a palm leaf. The anterior and posterior ridges are arranged in such a way that they interlock with each other and close the canal. They are often effaced after pregnancy.\n\nThe ectocervix (also known as the vaginal portion of the cervix) has a convex, elliptical shape and projects into the cervix between the anterior and posterior vaginal fornices. On the rounded part of the ectocervix is a small, depressed external opening, connecting the cervix with the vagina. The size and shape of the ectocervix and the external opening (external os) can vary according to age, hormonal state, and whether natural or normal childbirth has taken place. In women who have not had a vaginal delivery, the external opening is small and circular, and in women who have had a vaginal delivery, it is slit-like. On average, the ectocervix is long and wide.\n\nBlood is supplied to the cervix by the descending branch of the uterine artery and drains into the uterine vein. The pelvic splanchnic nerves, emerging as S2–S3, transmit the sensation of pain from the cervix to the brain. These nerves travel along the uterosacral ligaments, which pass from the uterus to the anterior sacrum.\n\nThree channels facilitate lymphatic drainage from the cervix. The anterior and lateral cervix drains to nodes along the uterine arteries, travelling along the cardinal ligaments at the base of the broad ligament to the external iliac lymph nodes and ultimately the paraaortic lymph nodes. The posterior and lateral cervix drains along the uterine arteries to the internal iliac lymph nodes and ultimately the paraaortic lymph nodes, and the posterior section of the cervix drains to the obturator and presacral lymph nodes. However, there are variations as lymphatic drainage from the cervix travels to different sets of pelvic nodes in some people. This has implications in scanning nodes for involvement in cervical cancer.\n\nAfter menstruation and directly under the influence of estrogen, the cervix undergoes a series of changes in position and texture. During most of the menstrual cycle, the cervix remains firm, and is positioned low and closed. However, as ovulation approaches, the cervix becomes softer and rises to open in response to the higher levels of estrogen present. These changes are also accompanied by changes in cervical mucus, described below.\n\nAs a component of the female reproductive system, the cervix is derived from the two paramesonephric ducts (also called Müllerian ducts), which develop around the sixth week of embryogenesis. During development, the outer parts of the two ducts fuse, forming a single urogenital canal that will become the vagina, cervix and uterus. The cervix grows in size at a smaller rate than the body of the uterus, so the relative size of the cervix over time decreases, decreasing from being much larger than the body of the uterus in fetal life, twice as large during childhood, and decreasing to its adult size, smaller than the uterus, after puberty. Previously it was thought that during fetal development, the original squamous epithelium of the cervix is derived from the urogenital sinus and the original columnar epithelium is derived from the paramesonephric duct. The point at which these two original epithelia meet is called the original squamocolumnar junction. New studies show, however, that all the cervical as well as large part of the vaginal epithelium are derived from Müllerian duct tissue and that phenotypic differences might be due to other causes.\n\nThe endocervical mucosa is about thick, lined with a single layer of columnar mucous cells, and contains numerous tubular mucous glands which empty viscous alkaline mucus into the lumen. In contrast, the ectocervix is covered with nonkeratinized stratified squamous epithelium, which resembles the squamous epithelium lining the vaginal. The junction between these two types of epithelia is called the squamocolumnar junction. Underlying both types of epithelium is a tough layer of collagen. The mucosa of the endocervix is not shed during menstruation. The cervix has more fibrous tissue, including collagen and elastin, than the rest of the uterus.\nIn prepubertal girls, the functional squamocolumnar junction is present just within the cervical canal. Upon entering puberty, due to hormonal influence, and during pregnancy, the columnar epithelium extends outwards over the ectocervix as the cervix everts. Hence, this also causes the squamocolumnar junction to move outwards onto the vaginal portion of the cervix, where it is exposed to the acidic vaginal environment. The exposed columnar epithelium can undergo physiological metaplasia and change to tougher metaplastic squamous epithelium in days or weeks, which is very similar to the original squamous epithelium when mature. The new squamocolumnar junction is therefore internal to the original squamocolumnar junction, and the zone of unstable epithelium between the two junctions is called the transformation zone of the cervix. After menopause, the uterine structures involute and the functional squamocolumnar junction moves into the cervical canal.\n\nNabothian cysts (or Nabothian follicles) form in the transformation zone where the lining of metaplastic epithelium has replaced mucous epithelium and caused a strangulation of the outlet of some of the mucous glands. A build up of mucus in the glands forms Nabothian cysts, usually less than about in diameter, which are considered physiological rather than pathological. Both gland openings and Nabothian cysts are helpful to identify the transformation zone.\n\nThe cervical canal is a pathway through which sperm enter the uterus after sexual intercourse, and some forms of artificial insemination. Some sperm remains in cervical crypts, infoldings of the endocervix, which act as a reservoir, releasing sperm over several hours and maximising the chances of fertilisation. A theory states the cervical and uterine contractions during orgasm draw semen into the uterus. Although the \"upsuck theory\" has been generally accepted for some years, it has been disputed due to lack of evidence, small sample size, and methodological errors.\n\nSome methods of fertility awareness, such as the Creighton model and the Billings method involve estimating a woman's periods of fertility and infertility by observing physiological changes in her body. Among these changes are several involving the quality of her cervical mucus: the sensation it causes at the vulva, its elasticity (\"Spinnbarkeit\"), its transparency, and the presence of ferning.\n\nSeveral hundred glands in the endocervix produce 20–60 mg of cervical mucus a day, increasing to 600 mg around the time of ovulation. It is viscous as it contains large proteins known as mucins. The viscosity and water content varies during the menstrual cycle; mucus is composed of around 93% water, reaching 98% at midcycle. These changes allow it to function either as a barrier or a transport medium to spermatozoa. It contains electrolytes such as calcium, sodium, and potassium; organic components such as glucose, amino acids, and soluble proteins; trace elements including zinc, copper, iron, manganese, and selenium; free fatty acids; enzymes such as amylase; and prostaglandins. Its consistency is determined by the influence of the hormones estrogen and progesterone. At midcycle around the time of ovulation—a period of high estrogen levels— the mucus is thin and serous to allow sperm to enter the uterus, and is more alkaline and hence more hospitable to sperm. It is also higher in electrolytes, which results in the \"ferning\" pattern that can be observed in drying mucus under low magnification; as the mucus dries, the salts crystallize, resembling the leaves of a fern. The mucus has stretchy character described as \"Spinnbarkeit\" most prominent around the time of ovulation.\n\nAt other times in the cycle, the mucus is thick and more acidic due to the effects of progesterone. This \"infertile\" mucus acts as a barrier to sperm from entering the uterus. Women taking an oral contraceptive pill also have thick mucus from the effects of progesterone. Thick mucus also prevents pathogens from interfering with a nascent pregnancy.\n\nA cervical mucus plug, called the operculum, forms inside the cervical canal during pregnancy. This provides a protective seal for the uterus against the entry of pathogens and against leakage of uterine fluids. The mucus plug is also known to have antibacterial properties. This plug is released as the cervix dilates, either during the first stage of childbirth or shortly before. It is visible as a blood-tinged mucous discharge.\n\nThe cervix plays a major role in childbirth. As the fetus descends within the uterus in preparation for birth, the presenting part, usually the head, rests on and is supported by the cervix. As labour progresses, the cervix becomes softer and shorter, begins to dilate, and rotates to face anteriorly. The support the cervix provides to the fetal head starts to give way when the uterus begins its contractions. During childbirth, the cervix must dilate to a diameter of more than to accommodate the head of the fetus as it descends from the uterus to the vagina. In becoming wider, the cervix also becomes shorter, a phenomenon known as effacement.\n\nAlong with other factors, midwives and doctors use the extent of cervical dilation to assist decision making during childbirth. Generally, the active first stage of labour, when the uterine contractions become strong and regular, begins when the cervical dilation is more than . The second phase of labor begins when the cervix has dilated to , which is regarded as its fullest dilation, and is when active pushing and contractions push the baby along the birth canal leading to the birth of the baby. The number of past vaginal deliveries is a strong factor in influencing how rapidly the cervix is able to dilate in labour. The time taken for the cervix to dilate and efface is one factor used in reporting systems such as the Bishop score, used to recommend whether interventions such as a forceps delivery, induction, or Caesarean section should be used in childbirth.\n\nCervical incompetence is a condition in which shortening of the cervix due to dilation and thinning occurs, before term pregnancy. Short cervical length is the strongest predictor of preterm birth.\n\nSeveral methods of contraception involve the cervix. Cervical diaphragms are reusable, firm-rimmed plastic devices inserted by a woman prior to intercourse that cover the cervix. Pressure against the walls of the vagina maintain the position of the diaphragm, and it acts as a physical barrier to prevent the entry of sperm into the uterus, preventing fertilisation. Cervical caps are a similar method, although they are smaller and adhere to the cervix by suction. Diaphragms and caps are often used in conjunction with spermicides. In one year, 12% of women using the diaphragm will undergo an unintended pregnancy, and with optimal use this falls to 6%. Efficacy rates are lower for the cap, with 18% of women undergoing an unintended pregnancy, and 10–13% with optimal use. Most types of progestogen-only pills are effective as a contraceptive because they thicken cervical mucus making it difficult for sperm to pass along the cervical canal. In addition, they may also sometimes prevent ovulation. In contrast, contraceptive pills that contain both oestrogen and progesterone, the combined oral contraceptive pills, work mainly by preventing ovulation. They also thicken cervical mucus and thin the lining of the uterus enhancing their effectiveness.\n\nIn 2008, cervical cancer was the third-most common cancer in women worldwide, with rates varying geographically from less than one to more than 50 cases per 100,000 women. It is a leading cause of cancer-related death in poor countries, where delayed diagnosis leading to poor outcomes is common. The introduction of routine screening has resulted in fewer cases of (and deaths from) cervical cancer, however this has mainly taken place in developed countries. Most developing countries have limited or no screening, and 85% of the global burden occurring there.\n\nCervical cancer nearly always involves human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. HPV is a virus with numerous strains, several of which predispose to precancerous changes in the cervical epithelium, particularly in the transformation zone, which is the most common area for cervical cancer to start. HPV vaccines, such as Gardasil and Cervarix, reduce the incidence of cervical cancer, by inoculating against the viral strains involved in cancer development.\n\nPotentially precancerous changes in the cervix can be detected by cervical screening, using methods including a Pap smear (also called a cervical smear), in which epithelial cells are scraped from the surface of the cervix and examined under a microscope. The colposcope, an instrument used to see a magnified view of the cervix, was invented in 1925. The Pap smear was developed by Georgios Papanikolaou in 1928. A LEEP procedure using a heated loop of platinum to excise a patch of cervical tissue was developed by Aurel Babes in 1927. In some parts of the developed world including the UK, the Pap test has been superseded with liquid-based cytology.\n\nA cheap, cost-effective and practical alternative in poorer countries is visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA). Instituting and sustaining cytology-based programs in these regions can be difficult, due to the need for trained personnel, equipment and facilities and difficulties in follow-up. With VIA, results and treatment can be available on the same day. As a screening test, VIA is comparable to cervical cytology in accurately identifying precancerous lesions.\n\nA result of dysplasia is usually further investigated, such as by taking a cone biopsy, which may also remove the cancerous lesion. Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia is a possible result of the biopsy, and represents dysplastic changes that may eventually progress to invasive cancer. Most cases of cervical cancer are detected in this way, without having caused any symptoms. When symptoms occur, they may include vaginal bleeding, discharge, or discomfort.\n\nInflammation of the cervix is referred to as cervicitis. This inflammation may be of the endocervix or ectocervix. When associated with the endocervix, it is associated with a mucous vaginal discharge and the sexually transmitted infections such as chlamydia and gonorrhoea. As many as half of pregnant women having a gonorrheal infection of the cervix are asymptomatic. Other causes include overgrowth of the commensal flora of the vagina. When associated with the ectocervix, inflammation may be caused by the herpes simplex virus. Inflammation is often investigated through directly visualising the cervix using a speculum, which may appear whiteish due to exudate, and by taking a Pap smear and examining for causal bacteria. Special tests may be used to identify particular bacteria. If the inflammation is due to a bacterium, then antibiotics may be given as treatment.\n\nCervical stenosis refers to an abnormally narrow cervical canal, typically associated with trauma caused by removal of tissue for investigation or treatment of cancer, or cervical cancer itself. Diethylstilbestrol, used from 1938 to 1971 to prevent preterm labour and miscarriage, is also strongly associated with the development of cervical stenosis and other abnormalities in the daughters of the exposed women. Other abnormalities include: vaginal adenosis, in which the squamous epithelium of the ectocervix becomes columnar; cancers such as clear cell adenocarcinomas; cervical ridges and hoods; and development of a cockscomb cervix appearance, which is the condition wherein, as the name suggests, the cervix of the uterus is shaped like a cockscomb. About one third of women born to diethylstilbestrol-treated mothers (i.e. in-utero exposure) develop a cockscomb cervix.\n\nEnlarged folds or ridges of cervical stroma (fibrous tissues) and epithelium constitute a cockscomb cervix. Similarly, cockscomb polyps lining the cervix are usually considered or grouped into the same overarching description. It is in and of itself considered a benign abnormality; its presence, however is usually indicative of DES exposure, and as such women who experience these abnormalities should be aware of their increased risk of associated pathologies.\n\nCervical agenesis is a rare congenital condition in which the cervix completely fails to develop, often associated with the concurrent failure of the vagina to develop. Other congenital cervical abnormalities exist, often associated with abnormalities of the vagina and uterus. The cervix may be duplicated in situations such as bicornuate uterus and uterine didelphys.\n\nCervical polyps, which are benign overgrowths of endocervical tissue, if present, may cause bleeding, or a benign overgrowth may be present in the cervical canal. Cervical ectropion refers to the horizontal overgrowth of the endocervical columnar lining in a one-cell-thick layer over the ectocervix.\n\nFemale marsupials have paired uteri and cervices. Most eutherian (placental) mammal species have a single cervix and single, bipartite or bicornuate uterus. Lagomorphs, rodents, aardvarks and hyraxes have a duplex uterus and two cervices. Lagomorphs and rodents share many morphological characteristics and are grouped together in the clade Glires. Anteaters of the family myrmecophagidae are unusual in that they lack a defined cervix; they are thought to have lost the characteristic rather than other mammals developing a cervix on more than one lineage. In domestic pigs, the cervix contains a series of five interdigitating pads that hold the boar's corkscrew-shaped penis during copulation.\n\nThe word \"cervix\" () came to English from Latin, where it means \"neck\", and like its Germanic counterpart, it can refer not only to the neck [of the body] but also to an analogous narrowed part of an object. The cervix uteri (neck of the uterus) is thus the uterine cervix, but in English the word \"cervix\" used alone usually refers to it. Thus the adjective \"cervical\" may refer either to the neck (as in \"cervical vertebrae\" or \"cervical lymph nodes\") or to the uterine cervix (as in \"cervical cap\" or \"cervical cancer\").\n\nLatin \"cervix\" came from the Proto-Indo-European root \"ker-\", referring to a \"structure that projects\". Thus, the word cervix is linguistically related to the English word \"horn\", the Persian word for \"head\" ( \"sar\"), the Greek word for \"head\" ( \"koruphe\"), and the Welsh word for \"deer\" ().\n\nThe cervix was documented in anatomical literature in at least the time of Hippocrates; cervical cancer was first described more than 2,000 years ago, with descriptions provided by both Hippocrates and Aretaeus. However, there was some variation in word sense among early writers, who used the term to refer to both the cervix and the internal uterine orifice. The first attested use of the word to refer to the cervix of the uterus was in 1702.\n\n"}
{"id": "51145241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51145241", "title": "Clinical pluralism", "text": "Clinical pluralism\n\nClinical pluralism is a term used by some psychotherapists to denote an approach to clinical treatment that would seek to remain respectful towards divergences in meaning-making. It can signify both an undertaking to negotiate theoretical difference between clinicians, and an undertaking to negotiate differences of belief occurring within the therapeutic relationship itself. While the notion of clinical pluralism is associated with the practice of psychotherapy, similar issues have been raised within the field of medical ethics.\n\n"}
{"id": "25622778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25622778", "title": "Craniosynostosis–anal anomalies–porokeratosis syndrome", "text": "Craniosynostosis–anal anomalies–porokeratosis syndrome\n\nCraniosynostosis–anal anomalies–porokeratosis syndrome (also known as \"CAP syndrome\") is a cutaneous condition inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.\n\n"}
{"id": "587350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=587350", "title": "Cremasteric reflex", "text": "Cremasteric reflex\n\nThe cremasteric reflex is a superficial (i.e., close to the skin's surface) reflex observed in human males.\n\nThis reflex is elicited by lightly stroking or poking the superior and medial (inner) part of the thigh—regardless of the direction of stroke. The normal response is an immediate contraction of the cremaster muscle that pulls up the testis ipsilaterally (on the same side of the body).\nThe reflex utilizes sensory and motor fibers from two different nerves. When the inner thigh is stroked, sensory fibers of the ilioinguinal nerve are stimulated. These activate the motor fibers of the genital branch of the genitofemoral nerve which causes the cremaster muscle to contract and elevate the testis.\n\nIn boys, this reflex may be exaggerated which can occasionally lead to a misdiagnosis of cryptorchidism.\n\nThe cremasteric reflex may be absent with testicular torsion, upper and lower motor neuron disorders, as well as a spine injury of L1-L2. It can also occur if the ilioinguinal nerve has accidentally been cut during a hernia repair. \n\nThe cremasteric reflex can be helpful in recognizing testicular emergencies. The presence of the cremasteric reflex does not eliminate testicular torsion from a differential diagnosis, but it does broaden the possibilities to include epididymitis or other causes of scrotal and testicular pain. In any event, if testicular torsion cannot be definitively eliminated in an expeditious manner, a testicular Doppler ultrasound or exploratory surgical intervention is usually implemented to prevent possible loss of the testicle to necrosis.\n"}
{"id": "13572834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13572834", "title": "Eugene Saenger", "text": "Eugene Saenger\n\nDr. Eugene Saenger (March 5, 1917 – September 30, 2007) was an American university professor and physician. A graduate of Harvard University, Saenger was a pioneer in radiation research and nuclear medicine. He taught at the University of Cincinnati for more than thirty years.\n\nFrom 1960 until 1971, Dr. Eugene Saenger, a radiologist at the University of Cincinnati, led an experiment exposing 88 cancer patients, mostly poor and 60% of whom identified as Black, to whole body radiation, even though this sort of treatment had already been discredited by other researchers for the types of cancer these patients had. They were not told the Pentagon funded the study, however, according to the New York Times '...In the first five years, the researchers said, they obtained oral consent, and later various written consent forms.' They were told they would be getting an experimental treatment that might help them. Patients were exposed, in the period of one hour, to the equivalent of about 20,000 x-rays worth of radiation. Nausea, vomiting, severe stomach pain, loss of appetite, and mental confusion were the results. A report in 1972 indicated that some of the patients died of radiation poisoning, but some of the deaths might have been due simply to the late-stage cancer they already had when experimented on. Dr. Saenger received a gold medal for “career achievements” from the Radiological Society of North America. In 1994, the families of the patients sued Saenger, the University of Cincinnati, and the federal government. In 1999, the families won a $3.6 million settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "47500892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47500892", "title": "European countries by health expense per person", "text": "European countries by health expense per person\n\nThis is a list of total public and private health expenditure for European countries, divided by the population of the country to give expenditure per capita. It includes health services, family planning, nutrition activities, and emergency health aid.\n\nThe table uses 2013 data from the World Bank. Numbers are in international dollars.\n\nThe table uses an interval of years from the World Bank. Numbers are in international dollars.\n\nThe following list transcontinental countries that have main territories in Asia with small territories in Europe. \n\nThe table uses an interval of years from the World Bank. Numbers are in international dollars.\n\n"}
{"id": "33242198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33242198", "title": "Exercise addiction", "text": "Exercise addiction\n\nExercise addiction is a state characterized by a compulsive engagement in any form of physical exercise, despite negative consequences. While regular exercise is generally a healthy activity, exercise addiction generally involves performing excessive amounts of exercise to the detriment of physical health, spending too much time exercising to the detriment of personal and professional life, and exercising regardless of physical injury. It may also involve a state of dependence upon regular exercise which involves the occurrence of severe withdrawal symptoms when the individual is unable to exercise. Differentiating between addictive and healthy exercise behaviors is difficult but there are key factors in determining which category a person may fall into. Exercise addiction shows a high comorbidity with eating disorders.\n\nExercise addiction is not listed as a disorder in the fourth revision of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-IV). This type of addiction can be classified under a behavioral addiction in which a person’s behavior becomes obsessive, compulsive, and/or causes dysfunction in a person's life. The next revision of the DSM (DSM-5) will include an addictions and related disorders section; gambling is the only non-substance addiction that is likely to be included. Other non-substance addictions, such as exercise addiction, are being researched but their inclusion is undetermined.\n\nA concrete classification of exercise addiction has proven to be difficult due to the lack of a specific and widely accepted diagnostic model. Most interpretations of addiction have traditionally been limited to drugs and alcohol, which makes it even more difficult to identify addictive tendencies in exercise. While excessive exercise is the overarching theme with exercise addiction, the term also includes a variety of symptoms like withdrawal, \"exercise buzz\", and impaired physical function. Excessive exercise has been classified in different ways; sometimes as an addiction and sometimes as a more general compulsive behavior. Psychiatric case studies have shown that exaggerated exercise could lead to negligence of work and family life. With an addiction, individuals become \"hooked\" to the feeling of euphoria and pleasure that exercise provides. This pleasure keeps the individual from stopping and leads to excessive exercise. With a compulsion people often do not necessarily enjoy repeating certain tasks, as they may feel like performing it will fulfill a duty that is required of them. There are many opinions on whether concrete diagnostic criteria should be created for this type of addiction. Some say preoccupation with exercise that causes significant impairment in a person's life, not due to another disorder, may be enough criteria to label this disorder. Others say there is not enough information about exercise addiction to develop diagnostic criteria. , the term \"excessive exercise\" continues to be used while the \"exercise addiction\" model continues to be debated.\n\nThree main types of disorders are associated with excessive exercise:\n\nFive indicators of exercise addiction are:\n\nKey differences between healthy and addictive levels of exercise include the presence of withdrawal symptoms when exercise is stopped as well as the addictive properties exercise may have leading to a dependence on exercise.\n\nThose who succumb to exercise addiction may experience overtraining, which is best defined as a “condition of poor adaptation to a chronic period of excessive stress caused by a physical exertion, resulting in the development of the syndrome, compromising the health and sports performance”. \n\nOvertraining includes one or more of the following :\n\nExercise addiction may also lead to mood disturbances. Those who undergo rigorous training without adequate rest are more likely to experience depression, anger, fatigue and confusion. \n\nIn addition, excessive training may cause exhaustion of the autonomic nervous system. Some symptoms include decreased total testosterone level, an imbalance between testosterone and cortisol, decreased sympathetic tone, and decreased exercise-induced lactate. These chemical balances can lead to premature osteoporosis, where the lack of testosterone accelerates bone loss, and elevated levels of cortisol alters calcium and bone metabolism by “increasing bone reabsorption and decreasing bone formation or intestinal absorption of calcium”. Calcium undernutrition may eventually occur, accelerating premature osteoporosis.\n\n, the mechanisms involved in the development of an exercise addiction, associated with the transition from healthy committed exercise to compulsive exercise, are unknown.\n\nDifferent assessment tools can be used to determine if an individual is addicted to exercise. Most tools used to determine risk for exercise addiction are modified tools that have been used for assessing other behavioral addictions. Tools for determining eating disorders can also show a high risk for exercise addiction.\n\nThe Obligatory Exercise Questionnaire was created by Thompson and Pasman in 1991, consisting of 20 questions on exercise habits and attitudes toward exercise and body image. Patients respond to statements on a scale of 1 (never) to 4 (always). This questionnaire aided in the development of another assessment tool, the Exercise Addiction Inventory.\n\nThe Exercise Addiction Inventory was developed by Terry \"et al\" in 2004. This inventory was developed as a self-report to examine an individual's beliefs toward exercise. The inventory is made up of six statements in relation to the perception of exercise, concerning: the importance of exercise to the individual, relationship conflicts due to exercise, how mood changes with exercise, the amount of time spent exercising, the outcome of missing a workout, and the effects of decreasing physical activity. Individuals are asked to rate each statement from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree). If an individual scores above 24 they are said to be at-risk for exercise addiction.\n\nBehavioral addiction and substance abuse disorders are treated similarly; treatment options include exposure and response prevention. No medications have been approved for the treatment of behavioral addictions. Studies have shown promise in the use of glutamatergic altering drugs to treat addictions other than exercise. Exercise addictions comorbid in patients with an eating disorder may be treated through psychotherapy involving education, behavioral interventions, and a strengthened family support structure. In treating the eating disorder, obsessions and compulsions produced by obscured body image ideals will also be treated, this includes exercise addiction.\n\nMost research has focused on adult population or on college students, but little is known about epidemiology of behavioral addictions in adolescence. A study conducted by Villella \"et al\" looked at a group of students and the prevalence of various addictions. His results showed exercise addiction was the second most prevalent, after compulsive buying.\nHigh risk groups that appear to be addicted to exercise include athletes in sports encouraging thinness or appearance standards, young and middle-age women, and young men.\n\nIndividuals with exercise addiction may put exercise above family and friends, work, injuries, and other social activities. If not identified and treated, an exercise addiction may lead to a significant decline in one's health.\n\nAn addiction, by definition, includes repeated compulsive behaviors that negatively affect daily living. There are two ways to classify addictive behaviors: substance addiction and process addiction. An exercise addiction is a type of process addiction, in which an individual's mood toward a certain event becomes dependent on addictive behaviors. Many educational, occupational, and social activities are stopped due to excessive exercising. Depression may develop if exercise is neglected or may result from reoccurring physical injuries that limit exercise. Exercise addiction is often related to obsessive-compulsive disorder as exercise addicts may have obsessions or compulsions toward physical activity. Exercise addiction is also commonly associated with eating disorders as a secondary symptom of bulimia or anorexia nervosa. Approximately 39-48% of people that have an eating disorder are also addicted to exercise. When diagnosing bulimia, exercise addiction is referred to as a compensatory behavior and indicator of the underlying disorder. Research also shows exercise addiction influences not only the development of eating disorders but also their maintenance.\n\nAs with many human diseases and disorders, animal models are sometimes used to study addiction. For example, voluntary wheel running by rodents, viewed as a model of human voluntary exercise, has been used to study withdrawal symptoms, such as changes in blood pressure, when wheel access is removed from mice.\n\n"}
{"id": "3729595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3729595", "title": "F-100 and F-75 (foods)", "text": "F-100 and F-75 (foods)\n\nF-100 and F-75 (also known as Formula 100 and Formula 75) are therapeutic milk products designed to treat severe malnutrition. In 1994, Action Against Hunger / Action Contre la Faim (ACF) pioneered the use of milk formula F-100 for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition. In 1997, a French medical researcher together with the French company Nutriset succeeded in making a nutrient-dense spread for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition. The formula is used in therapeutic feeding centres where children are hospitalized for treatment. Action Against Hunger’s Scientific Committee pioneered the therapeutic milk formula (F-100), now used by all major humanitarian aid organizations to treat acute malnutrition. As a result, the global mortality rate of severely malnourished children under the age of five has been reduced from 25% to 5%. F-100 and other therapeutic nutritional products are widely used by a number of humanitarian aid organizations, such as Unicef, Action Against Hunger, Concern Worldwide, Valid International, and Médecins Sans Frontières, when treating severe malnutrition among vulnerable populations.\n\nF-75 is considered the \"starter\" formula, and F-100 the \"catch-up\" formula. The designations mean that the product contains respectively 75 and 100 kcals per 100 ml. Both are very high in energy, fat, and protein, and provide a large amount of nutrients. Ingredients include concentrated milk powder, food oil (sometimes grease), and dextrin vitamin complexes. The formulas may be prepared by mixing with the local water supply. Sometimes Plumpy'nut is substituted for F-100. F-75 may be cereal-based in place of milk.\nF-75:full cream milk 30ml +sugar 2 tsp(10g) +MCT oil 1/2 tsp + water to make it 100ml.This provides 75 kcal and 1g protein.F -100 provides 100 kcal and 3 g protein\nThere are other variants like Low Lactose F-75 and Lactose Free F-75 which are used in case of persistent diarrhoea in severe acute malnutrition.\n\n5. GHAI Essential of pediatrics(8th edition) : page 106 (chapter 7 : Nutrition) \n"}
{"id": "16017499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16017499", "title": "Family Carers Ireland", "text": "Family Carers Ireland\n\nFamily Carers Ireland began as The Carers Association in 1987, and was the first national carers association for lobbying government, representing family carers and advocate for carers rights in Ireland. The national census of 2006 shows that there are 160,917 people who stated that they are carers and almost 41,000 of these carers are providing 43 or more hours of care each week. The association estimates that carers provide 194 million hours of care a year to the value of about 2.5 billion Euros to the economy. Approximately 33,000 full-time carers qualify for the Carers Allowance from the government. This Allowance is means tested. The government has committed to developing a National Carers Strategy by the middle of 2008.\n\nThe Carers Association was the subject of a chapter-length study in \"Care Work: The Quest for Security\".\n\nCaring For Carers Ireland was a national care organisation in Ireland that provided training on homecare and computer skills to family carers, as well as talks on the issues affecting family carers.\n\nIn addition to assisting carers directly, it collaborated with other care organisations and academics in order to raise awareness of issues faced by carers, including by facilitating access to carers for interview, and convening conferences of care organisations.\n\nIt was founded in County Clare, around 1988-1990, by Soroptimists.\n\nIts importance in social care in Ireland was acknowledged by multiple government ministers.\n\nAround 2015-2016, it merged with The Carers Association to form Family Carers Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "19061245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19061245", "title": "Frederick Campbell Rose", "text": "Frederick Campbell Rose\n\nFrederick Campbell Rose CSI (1865 – 18 July 1946) was a Scottish civil engineer who spent most of his career in India.\n\nRose was born in Elgin and educated at Trinity College, Glenalmond and the Royal Indian Engineering College. He joined the Indian Public Works Department in 1886 and was posted to the Irrigation Branch in the Punjab, where he spent most of his career, becoming a leading authority on irrigation. In 1916 he was appointed Secretary of the Public Works Department, which carried with it membership of the Viceroy's Legislative Council.\n\nHe retired from Indian service in 1919 to take up the post of chief engineer of river improvements in the Chili Province of Northern China, finally retiring in 1927.\n\nRose was appointed Companion of the Order of the Star of India (CSI) in the 1920 New Year Honours.\n\n"}
{"id": "33255504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33255504", "title": "Functional Capacity Index", "text": "Functional Capacity Index\n\nThe Functional Capacity Index (FCI) is a measure of a person's level of function for the following 12 months after sustaining some form of illness or injury. The FCI incorporates ten physical functions and gives each a numerical value on a scale of 0 to 100, with 100 representing no limitations on a person's everyday function.\n\n"}
{"id": "7971166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7971166", "title": "Gingival sulcus", "text": "Gingival sulcus\n\nThe gingival sulcus is an area of potential space between a tooth and the surrounding gingival tissue and is lined by sulcular epithelium. The depth of the sulcus (Latin for \"groove\") is bounded by two entities: apically by the gingival fibers of the connective tissue attachment and coronally by the free gingival margin. A healthy sulcular depth is three millimeters or less, which is readily self-cleansable with a properly used toothbrush or the supplemental use of other oral hygiene aids.\n\nWhen the sulcular depth is chronically in excess of three millimeters, regular home care may be insufficient to properly cleanse the full depth of the sulcus, allowing food debris and microbes to accumulate, forming dental biofilm. This poses a danger to the periodontal ligament (PDL) fibers that attach the gingiva to the tooth. If accumulated microbes remain undisturbed in a sulcus for an extended period of time, they will penetrate and ultimately destroy the delicate soft tissue and periodontal attachment fibers. If left untreated, this process may lead to a deepening of the sulcus, recession, destruction of the periodontium, including the bony tooth socket, tooth mobility, and tooth loss. A periodontal pocket is a dental term indicating the presence of an abnormally deepened gingival sulcus.\n"}
{"id": "22678407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22678407", "title": "Growing Up (1971 film)", "text": "Growing Up (1971 film)\n\nGrowing Up is a sex education film for schools, 23 minutes in length, first shown in April 1971, which was made by Dr Martin Cole. It is now available as part of \"The Joy of Sex Education\" DVD and was described by one critic as \"the most famous and controversial inclusion\", and by Peter Bradshaw of \"The Guardian\" as the \"undoubted masterpiece of this double-DVD set\".\n\nAt the time of its release it was said to be \"the most explicit and frank film ever made for use in schools\", and attracted condemnation by Mary Whitehouse, Lord Longford, Margaret Thatcher and members of the Women's Liberation Movement who all, excepting Thatcher, attended the first public screening. Made two years before its earliest public showing, Cole though soon regretted a traditionalist description of gender roles in the film's opening commentary. The function of women was described as \"giving birth to children\", while it claimed men were \"better at giving birth to ideas\", a sequence which the Women's Liberation Movement objected to. There was a version of the film shown to Aston University students earlier for feedback prior to the final version being released. It features scenes rather than drawings of naked people, which included intercourse and masturbation. Teachers and pupils gave it positive feedback, but the absence of a discussion of venereal disease (VD) was noted by sympathetic reviewers.\n\nThe film triggered a national controversy;\"Educationally speaking, it is a rotten film\", Whitehouse said after viewing the film, \"which makes children no more than animals.\" Margaret Thatcher, then secretary of state for education who had sent an advisor to view the film, told the House of Commons on 21 April that she was \"very perturbed\" at the thought of the film being shown in schools and suggested local education authorities consider it \"with extreme caution\".\n\nAfter insisting on a screening, the education authority in Birmingham, where Cole lived, banned the film from being shown in the city's schools. There is no record of the film being shown to school children anywhere by the end of 1971, although it was shown to students at Oxford University.\n\n"}
{"id": "51607632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51607632", "title": "HealthUnlocked", "text": "HealthUnlocked\n\nHealthUnlocked is a social networking service for health. The company uses health-specific artificial intelligence to support patients to better manage their own health, by recommending relevant and tailored health content, information and services to patients The site enables peer support for various health conditions and promotes patient empowerment by actively engaging people with their healthcare.\n\nThe social network hosts online communities within a dedicated health web platform. There are currently over 700 different health communities on the HealthUnlocked website, for a wide range of health and wellbeing conditions. After registering to use the site, users can create a user profile and join one or more of these online communities. Many of the online communities are run in partnership with health organizations, non-profit organization's (NPO) and charities worldwide, including Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA), British Liver Trust, Endometriosis UK and The Multiple Sclerosis Association Of America. Each month over 4M people from across the world come to the platform, the majority of which are from the UK and US. HealthUnlocked is in the top 20 private health websites globally according to Alexa Internet. HealthUnlocked is also available through an app for iPhone \n\nA study (2017) by University of Manchester concluded that use of the HealthUnlocked platform positively affects a persons Patient Activation Measure and research (University of Warwick, 2016) found use of platforms such as HealthUnlocked helps people to come together and cope with illnesses and diseases such as diabetes, cancer and mental health problems.\n\nThe network was identified as a technology that will change health and care by the Kings Fund, a tech startup that is on track to become Britain's next billion dollar companies and won an award and named as a truly standout, disruptive innovation, in the AXA PPP Health Tech & You Awards (2017).\n\nHealthUnlocked was one of the first companies selected to join NHS England's, NHS Innovation Accelerator (NIA) programme, which aims to have proven innovations adopted faster and more systematically through the NHS, delivering on the commitment detailed within the Five Year Forward View.\n\nHealthUnlocked works with organisations including think tanks and the pharmaceutical industry to better understand long term health conditions and to recruit people from its online health communities to surveys, advisory boards and panels, as well as clinical trials. An academic review into patient involvement in drug development found that social media and peer networks are evolving to play a much deeper role in innovation and clinical research in industry and changing opportunities for patients to participate in research and development of new therapies. A study into patients experiences on steroids taken from data on the health platform found that the timing of glucocorticoid administration varies significantly in patients, potentially influencing effectiveness and side effects.\n\nThe company has also worked with the Institute for Public Policy Research, surveying its users to better understand the attitudes and activities of people with long-term conditions.\n\nHealthUnlocked was founded in 2010 by Jorge Armanet (CEO) and Dr Matt Jameson Evans (Chief Medical Officer), to transform how information and data are used and treated in healthcare and support people with health conditions to connect together online. Jameson Evans, a doctor in the NHS, had previously been chairman of Remedy UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "5051363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5051363", "title": "Health care in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Health care in Saudi Arabia\n\nHealth care in Saudi Arabia can be classified as a national health care system in which the government provides health care services through a number of government agencies. In the meantime, there is a growing role and increased participation from the private sector in the provision of health care services.\n\nThe Ministry of Health (MOH) is the major government agency entrusted with the provision of preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care for the Kingdom’s population. The Ministry provides primary health care (PHC) services through a network of health care centers (comprising 1,925 centers) throughout the kingdom. It also adopts the referral system which provides curative care for all members of society from the level of general practitioners at health centers to advanced technology specialist curative services through a broad base of general and specialist hospitals (220 hospitals). The MOH is considered the lead Government agency responsible for the management, planning, financing and regulating of the health care sector. The MOH also undertakes the overall supervision and follow-up of health care related activities carried out by the private sector. Therefore, the MOH can be viewed as a national health service (NHS) for the entire population.\n\nThere are also three other mini-NHS which finance and deliver primary, secondary and tertiary care to specific enrolled security and armed forces populations: the Ministry of Defense and Aviation (MODA), the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and the Saudi Arabian National Guard (SANG). In addition to these agencies, there are several autonomous government agencies which are responsible for the delivery and financing of health care services in the KSA. The Ministry of Education provides immediate primary health care to students. The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs operates institutions for the mentally ill and custodial homes for orphans. These facilities provide their guests a certain amount of medical care. The General Organization for Social Insurance and General Presidency of Youth Welfare provide health services for certain categories of the population in connection with its management of sport facilities. The Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu provides health facilities for employees and residents at the two industrial cities (Jubail and Yanbu). The Saudi Arabian Airlines operates its own health care facilities with the aim of providing health care services to its employees. The Kingdom’s universities provide, through their medical colleges or hospitals, specialist curative services and medical education and training programs, while they also conduct health research in collaboration with other research centers.\nThe Government also finances and provides care on a referral basis in its major specialized national tertiary care referral hospitals King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center and King Khalid Eye Specialist Hospital. The King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center uses highly advanced technologies and act as a reference hospital for cases that require advanced and specialist treatment, while it also conducts research on health issues in general and those related to the Kingdom in particular. The King Khalid Eye Specialist Hospital is designed to be a large health facility offering high quality specialized services for ophthalmology and eye surgery and medicine as well as being a regional research center in the area of ophthalmology. The hospital also has a cornea bank in which imported corneas are stored.\n\nThe ministry maintains the Saudi Health Office in London.\n\nBudget allocated to the health sector by the Ministry of Health was in:\n\nThe Saudi Red Crescent Society undertakes an important and effective role in providing emergency services at the pre-hospital stage, either at the scene of accidents or during the transportation of patients to hospitals. The society also undertakes a unique task by providing such services for pilgrims during Hajj and Umrah at the Holy Places of Mecca and Medina.\n\nIn 2010, Saudi Arabian National Guard Health Affairs was recognized with the Arab Health Award for \"Excellence in Electronic Health Records\".\n\nMoreover, the private sector provides health services through its health facilities including hospitals, dispensaries, laboratories, pharmacies and physiotherapy centers throughout the kingdom. The following are the major indicators provided by the private sector by the end of the year 2000:\n\nSaudis and public sector expats are eligible for a comprehensive package of benefits including, public health, preventive, diagnostic, and curative services and pharmaceuticals with few exclusions and no cost sharing. Most services including state of the art cardio-vascular procedures, organ transplants, and cancer treatments (including bone marrow transplants) are covered. Sponsors/employers are responsible for paying for an extensive package of services for private sector expatriates.\n\nThe health sector during the past two decades, like all other sectors shared a great deal of support and attention to improve their level worker's performance in its facilities on the basis of quality assurance. In 1983, before the application of primary health care, health services were in the form of \"e-medical\" services in hospitals and clinics. Prevention programs also involved through limited health care centers offices and Maternal and Child Health (MCH) centers.\n\nGovernment prioritization of preventive healthcare and environmental health began in 1925 following the establishment a public health department. The decision to create it came after a royal decree from King Abdul Aziz Al-Saud. By 1926, the first school of nursing was opened, followed by the school of health and emergencies in 1927.\n\nHealth services expanded in 1951 with the establishment of the Ministry of Health. A ministerial ordinance in 1980 led to a conglomeration of the administration of the existing dispensaries, health centers, health offices and maternal and child health (MCH) centers into one unit. By the end of the 1980s, there were 253 hospitals, 38,955 hospital beds and 1,640 primary health centers. The proportion of positions filled by Saudi nationals was low, with Saudi nationals representing 13% doctors (22,633 doctors), 11.2% nurses (45,840 nurses) and 38% health technicians (25,192 health technicians).\nIn 1993, the total number of hospitals was 281, 41,789 hospital beds and 1,707 primary health centers and the positions filled by Saudi nationals increased to 22.7% doctors, 24.5% nursing staff and 41.8% health technicians.\n\nIn the end of the 2000, the major indicators provided by the private sector were:\n\nIn 2002, the Saudi health system was established by a Royal decree to insure the provision of comprehensive and integrate health care to all population in Saudi Arabia in a fair minded, organized and affordable manner. In 2004, there were 1,848 primary health care centers and the total number of hospitals was 200. The Ministry of Health (MOH) budget increased from 2.8% of the total National budget in 1970 to 6.4% in 2004. In 2006, there were 20.4 doctors and 35.4 nurses per 10,000 population. In 2008, health care centers were 1925 centers throughout the kingdom and 220 hospitals which adopted the referral system which provided curative care for all members of society from the level of general practitioners at health care centers to antecedent technology specialist curative services through a broad base of general and specialist hospitals.\n\n\nIn 2005, health insurance was made compulsory for all non-Saudi nationals working in the country under the Cooperative Health Insurance Act. In 2008, this act was extended to include Saudi nationals working for the private sector. Enforcements of this compulsory coverage include fines for non-compliant companies and a refusal to renew working permits without insurance.\n\n"}
{"id": "11557101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11557101", "title": "Infiltrative ophthalmopathy", "text": "Infiltrative ophthalmopathy\n\nInfiltrative ophthalmopathy is found in 5-10% of patients with Graves disease and resembles exophthalmos, except that the blurry or double vision is acquired because of weakness in the ocular muscles of the eye. In addition, there is no known correlation with the patient's thyroid levels. Exophthalmos associated with Grave's disease disappears when the thyrotoxicosis is corrected. Infiltrative ophthalmopathy at times may not be cured. Treatments consist of high dose glucocorticoids and low dose radiotherapy. The current hypothesis is that infiltrative ophthalmopathy may be autoimmune in nature targeting retrobulbar tissue. Smoking may also have a causative effect.\n"}
{"id": "12259226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12259226", "title": "International Women's Year", "text": "International Women's Year\n\nInternational Women's Year (IWY) was the name given to 1975 by the United Nations. Since that year March 8 has been celebrated as International Women's Day, and the United Nations Decade for Women, from 1976 to 1985, was also established.\n\nAfter years of work by the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) to adopt a declaration to eliminate discrimination against women, in 1965, CSW began working in earnest to obtain passage of a declaration to secure women's human rights. Collating responses covering education, employment, inheritance, penal reform, and other issues, from government actors, NGO representatives and UN staff, CSW delegates drafted the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (DEDAW), which was passed by the General Assembly on 7 November 1967. Once support had been garnered for the declaration, the next step was to prepare it to become a Convention. Though there were delays, by 1972, when the United States Congress passed Title IX, eliminating discrimination in education for any institution receiving federal funding, hope that passage could be secured surged. In the meantime, members of the Women's International Democratic Federation (WIDF) had long been pressing for an international women's year and conference to address women's inequality. As WIDF was designated as an observer and not a member of the CSW, they could not propose the event directly, but drafted a proposal. Persuading the Romanian delegate of CSW to present their proposal, it was seconded by Finland. In turn, CSW approved the proposal and submitted it to the General Assembly, which proclaimed 1975 as International Women's Year in December 1972. The date was significant because it would take place on the thirtieth anniversary of the creation of the United Nations. But there were problems with the conference. Initially Soviet women rejected the call for a conference and filibustered the negotiations, preferring to host their own conference in East Berlin that would not be subject to the UN structure. As part of the Cold War politics, the United States then proposed that the conference not be limited to women, but should be gender neutral, because an all-woman conference would not be taken seriously. Finally, Mexico City agreed to host the conference, and CSW set about the tasks to prepare the \"machinery\" necessary to secure passage of CEDAW. Helvi Sipilä, was selected as the Assistant Secretary General for Social Development and Humanitarian affairs and placed in charge of organizing events for the year.\n\nThe first UN World Conference on Women was held in Mexico City from 19 June to 2 July. The 1975 conference led to the adoption of the World Plan of Action, as well as the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women and Their Contribution to Development and Peace. It led to the establishment of monitoring mechanisms such as, International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) and the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) and set in motion plans for follow-up conferences, the first of which would be held in 1980 in Copenhagen. It established the period of 1975 to 1985 as the UN Decade for Women, to enable progress and failures to be evaluated and resulted in urging that the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) be quickly ratified. The 1985 third conference in Nairobi, Kenya, not only closed the decade of women, but set a series of member state schedules for removal of legislated gender discrimination in national laws by the year 2000. The 1975 Mexico City Conference was attended by over a thousand delegates. Prominent attendees included Elizabeth Reid and Margaret Whitlam of Australia. The \"International Women's Year Tribune\" was also organised and attended by 4,000 women in 1975.\n\nThe World Congress of Women was held in East Berlin as a part of IWY soon after the Mexico City event. It idealized women’s equality as the \"true embodiment of the socialist conception of human rights\". The Working Group on Equal Rights, composed of experts on government and law from the East German Academy of Sciences, Humboldt University and Socialist United Party Central Committee rejected the notion that women's rights should fall under a separate area designated by gender, but instead should be governed by the United Nations Human Right's position. Angela Davis was one of the key guests at the conference, as was Hortensia Bussi de Allende, former First Lady of Chile. The state-sponsored program advocated women's solidarity in the national struggles to free women from oppression based on class, race and gender through state socialism.\n\nThe International Tribunal on the Crimes Against Women was planned as an event for IWY but was not held until 4 to 8 March 1976 in Brussels, Belgium. Limited by funding strictures, the conference hosted 2000 women from forty countries. Speakers addressed economic exploitation and violence against women in its many forms. The most significant development to come out of the conference was the International Feminist Network.\n\nThe 1975 conference was also notable for passing the first \"Zionism is racism\" resolution passed at any UN-sponsored forum, thus preparing the way for United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 in 1975 the following November.\n\nA statement equating Zionism with racism was also included in an annex to a report to be considered at the final conference of the United Nations Decade for Women in 1985 in Nairobi, Kenya. However, as stated in \"It Takes a Dream: The Story of Hadassah\" (1997), by Marlin Levin, \"Bernice asked [President Ronald] Reagan to publicly repudiate the U.N. resolution. He agreed and promised that the U.S. delegation would walk out of Nairobi if the Zionism-equals-racism resolution was included in the final conference declaration.\" Tannenbaum also convinced the United States Senate to condemn the conference resolution and demand its withdrawal. She also personally flew to Kenya with a draft of the Senate resolution, where Maureen Reagan, President Reagan's daughter and the head of the American delegation, repeated the president’s promise to withdraw from the conference if the resolution was included in the final conference delegation. Kenya then brokered a compromise in which Zionism was omitted from the final conference report.\n\nA conference on 'Women and Politics' was held in September, attended by 700 women.\n\nThe events of IWY in Canada as a whole raised awareness with Canadian women as well as the general public on a wide range of women’s issues and accomplishments. It spurred creation of the Ontario Women and the Law Association and the Service, Office and Retail Workers Union of Canada (SORWUC) and offered funding for many to participate in educational and artistic endeavors aimed at presenting women’s perspectives. One such effort was a petition to the National Film Board of Canada which led to the creation of Studio D. The University of Guelph hosted a conference in September dedicated to Nellie McClung and the reform issues which had been important to her.\n\nIn June a United Women's Convention was held in Wellington.\n\nEvents in support of IWY were held throughout the United States by private organizations and NGOs, such as those held in Connecticut, 11–12 June 1977 and the \"Greater Cleveland Congress\", October. One of the most significant US events, because it was funded by the US government, was held in Houston, Texas and though planned as an IWY event, did not take place until 1977. The 1977 National Women's Conference included women from each state in the United States and developed a National Plan of Action, mirroring many of the points of the World Plan of Action.\n\nAs a result of the international focus on Women in 1975, a number of institutions were established:\n\nThe IWY also launched the \"dove\" emblem used by the IWY, CEDAW, and UNIFIL. A stylized dove intersected by a female symbol and an equal sign, the emblem was donated by then 27-year-old New York City advertising company graphic designer Valerie Pettis. It remains the official symbol of UN Women and is used in International Women's Day celebrations to this day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55959825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55959825", "title": "Ishaq Ibn Imran", "text": "Ishaq Ibn Imran\n\nIshaq Ibn Imran (died c. 903-9) was an Iraqi-Arab physician working in Kairouan, which at the time was the capital of Tunisia. His treatise on melancholy, written c.900, was translated into Latin by Constantine the African in the eleventh century.\n"}
{"id": "711853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711853", "title": "Joe Kieyoomia", "text": "Joe Kieyoomia\n\nJoe Kieyoomia (November 21, 1919 – February 17, 1997) was a Navajo soldier in New Mexico's 200th Coast Artillery unit who was captured by the Imperial Japanese Army after the fall of the Philippines in 1942 during World War II. Kieyoomia was a POW in Nagasaki at the time of the atomic bombing but survived, reportedly having been shielded from the effects of the bomb by the concrete walls of his cell.\n\nThe Japanese tried unsuccessfully to have him decode messages in the \"Navajo Code\" used by the United States Marine Corps, but although Kieyoomia understood Navajo, the messages sounded like nonsense to him because even though the code was based on the Navajo language, it was decipherable only by individuals specifically trained in its usage.\n\nKieyoomia is notable for having not only survived the Bataan death march and related internment and torture in a concentration camp, but also being a \"hibakusha\" (survivor of an atomic bomb blast).\n\nThe surrender of Bataan would hasten the fall of Corregidor, a month later. Without this stand, however, the Japanese might have quickly overrun all of the U.S. bases in the Pacific. Bataan forced them to slow down, giving the allies valuable time to prepare for conflicts such as the Battle of the Coral Sea and the Battle of Midway which followed closely thereafter. Ultimately, Kieyoomia, along with more than 60,000 Filipino and 15,000 American prisoners of war were forced into the infamous Bataan Death March.\n\nInitially tortured because his captors thought he was Japanese-American (and therefore a traitor), Joe Kieyoomia suffered months of beatings before the Japanese accepted his claim to Navajo ancestry.\n\nHe survived the Death March that killed thousands of starved U.S. and Philippine soldiers. When the \"Navajo Code\" had the Japanese baffled, Kieyoomia was questioned and then tortured, although he could only understand bits and pieces of what trained Navajo Code Talkers were saying; the code was so sophisticated that he eventually told the Japanese that it sounded like nonsense to him.\n\nKieyoomia was not trained as a code talker and did not know about the code. He was stripped naked and forced to stand for hours in deep snow until he talked. When he was finally allowed to return to his cell, a guard shoved him, causing the soles of his feet to tear as they were frozen to the ground.\n\nAfter surviving the prison camps, the \"hell ships\" and the torture, Kieyoomia was a prisoner in Nagasaki when that city was the target of the second atomic bomb dropped by the U.S. Army Air Forces (USAAF). Kieyoomia survived the attack, saying he was protected by the concrete walls of his cell. After 3½ years as a prisoner of war, he was abandoned for three days after the bombing, but says a Japanese officer finally freed him.\n\n"}
{"id": "17919144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17919144", "title": "Johrei", "text": "Johrei\n\nJohrei , sometimes spelled \"jyorei\", is a form of alternative medicine similar to Reiki. It was introduced in Japan in the 1930s by Mokichi Okada. \n\nDespite presenting itself as a form of alternative medicine, the Johrei Fellowship maintains that it does not prescribe, diagnose, or treat physical illnesses and that their focus is on spiritual health and world peace instead of physical health.\n\nOkada, who was also a previous member of Omoto, one of Japan's new religions, claimed to have a vision in 1925 of the Buddhist Bodhisattva Kannon (Kuan Yin) and she gave him the divine light, along with a command that Okada proclaim himself a prophet. He later established the Great Japan Association for the Veneration of the Bodhisattva Kanon, with divine healing as its main purpose. Practitioners claim to channel vitalist \"energy\" into patients by waving their hands over the patient's body. \n\nThere is a claim that, in lectures and classes, there are numerous reports of dramatic healings. Aside from its association with these miracles, Johrei is known for its two significant features. The first involves simplicity of the healing practice because the placement of the hand over another person can be performed anywhere. Egalitarianism constitutes the second feature of Johrei. This is based on the fundamental idea that one person administers healing and another receives it and that \"there is no difference between clergy and followers in their ability to transmit the light of God.\" \n\nJohrei was introduced to America in 1953, and there are numerous Johrei centers throughout the United States and other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "23213809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23213809", "title": "Joseph Kaven", "text": "Joseph Kaven\n\nJoseph Kaven CBE is a Papua New Guinean physician who works at Nonga Base Hospital, Rabaul, East New Britain. He has worked on improving health service access to rural areas of Papua New Guinea.\n\nKaven was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2009 Birthday Honours for \"service to health and medical research, particularly in infectious disease control\".\n"}
{"id": "52010939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52010939", "title": "Juras Požela", "text": "Juras Požela\n\nJuras Požela (12 April 1982 – 16 October 2016) was a Lithuanian politician who served as the Minister of Health of Lithuania from March 2016 until his death on 16 October 2016 from pancreatitis. He was also a Seimas member, Youth and Sports Affairs Committee Chairman and a presidium member of the Social Democratic Party of Lithuania.\n"}
{"id": "41679105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41679105", "title": "Kamla Nath Sharma", "text": "Kamla Nath Sharma\n\nKamla Nath Sharma (Also K.N.Sharma, Hindi: कमलानाथ शर्मा, born March 1946) is a civil engineer from Rajasthan, India and an international expert in Hydrology, Water Resources, Irrigation & Drainage and Hydropower Engineering. He is also an author of research papers on scientific subjects involving water, environment, ecology etc. as contained in the ancient Indian literature like Vedas and Upanishads, and is a literary writer of stories and satires in Hindi language. Born in Jaipur, Rajasthan (India), he belongs to a renowned Sanskrit family from Andhra that migrated to Jaipur at the time of founding of the pink city of Jaipur. His father late Bhatt Mathuranath Shastri and elder brother Kala Nath Shastry are widely known Sanskrit scholars. He graduated in Civil Engineering from MBM Engineering College (Jai Narain Vyas University), Jodhpur (Rajasthan) and obtained Master of Engineering degree in Hydraulic Structures from Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani. He travelled extensively throughout the world during his service tenure engaging in international dialogues, initiatives and specialised programs and contributing to the knowhow in the fields of hydrology, irrigation and drainage, flood management, etc.\n\nBesides contributing to global issues relating to water resources, food security, irrigation and drainage in various countries, he has published extensively on various scientific subjects of importance like environmental degradation, ecology, water pollution etc. based on references in the oldest Indian Vedic scriptures written in Sanskrit language. He is also a known name in Hindi literature and his satires and stories have been appearing in various literary magazines of India during last about five decades.\n\nK.N.Sharma taught water power engineering and civil engineering subjects, including hydrology, water resources engineering and irrigation to undergraduate and postgraduate students at the Malaviya National Institute of Technology (then Malaviya Regional Engineering College) at Jaipur, Rajasthan from 1969 to 1981.\n\nLater, as Head of the Hydrology and Water Resources Unit at the Government of India enterprise National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Ltd. (NHPC Limited) at its headquarters in New Delhi, he was associated with a large number of major hydro power projects in the country between 1981 and 1989.\n\nEr. Sharma joined the International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage (ICID), a pioneer technical organisation dedicated to irrigation and drainage with a membership network of 110 countries, at its Head Office in New Delhi in 1989 from where he retired as Secretary in 2010.\n\nPresently he is Chairman of an Organization 'Aqua Wisdom' and is a consultant in hydrology and water resources planning, advising Indian hydroelectric projects.\n\nK.N. Sharma was awarded Ford Foundation Fellowship in Water Management at the University of California, Davis (USA) in 1976–77. He also received British Council Fellowship for evaluating international networking in irrigation and drainage under the World Bank/FAO supported International Program for Technology and Research in Irrigation and Drainage (IPTRID) at Oxford/Wallingford (UK), Montpellier (France) and Wageningen (Netherlands), March–May, 1993. He was honoured with Citation Plaque for his exceptional contributions to ICID and Global Food Security at the World Congress on Irrigation held in Montreal (Canada) in 2002. He was also awarded Citation Plaques for \"eminent leadership and enduring contributions to the worldwide advancement of the science of irrigation and drainage\" at Sacramento, California (USA) in 2007 and at New Delhi (India) in 2009.\n\nEr. Sharma chaired, co-chaired and represented on several important meetings and conferences of international water organizations and Dialogues involving FAO, UNESCO, IUCN (France), Global Water Partnership, World Water Forums, IWMI (Sri Lanka), World Water Council, International Water Resources Association, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF, Switzerland), World Agricultural Forum, etc. He also worked on several International and National Technical Committees, such as those of ISO, viz., TC 30, TC 113, BIS (India) (BDC-46, River Valley Schemes), etc., besides having Fellowship of some professional bodies like Indian Association of Hydrologists.\n\n1. 'Water Power Engineering', Vikas Publishing House Pvt. Ltd., Noida-201301, First edition 1979, Second edition 2013, .\n2. 'IPTRID – An ICID Vision, ICID, New Delhi, 1995.\n\n3. 'Research in Irrigation and Drainage – A Review of ICID's Efforts', ICID, New Delhi, 1994.\n\n4. Large number of technical research papers, commentaries, articles, presentations, interventions etc. on issues like global food security, ecology, water, environment etc. at national and international conferences, journals and encyclopaedia.\n\n5. 'Sahitya ka Dhwani Tattva urf Sahityik Big Bang' (collection of satires in Hindi), 2015, Ayan Prakashan, New Delhi, India.\n\n6. ‘Bhaunrya Mo’ (collection of stories in Hindi), OnlineGatha-The Endless Tale, Lucknow (India), 2015.\n\n7. ‘Moorakh To Ekahi Bhalo’ (collection of satires in Hindi), OnlineGatha – The Endless Tale, Lucknow (India), 2016.\n\nBesides the above, he has edited/assisted in editing many technical books and specialized volumes related to river valleys, such as Danube, Mekong, Indus, etc.; historical dams; multilingual technical dictionary on irrigation, drainage, flood control and environment; etc. \n\nK.N. Sharma has lectured and presented papers at international conferences in many countries like France, China, Japan, Germany, India etc. on various subjects and techniques in ancient scriptures of India like Vedas etc. which are relevant to the modern times. His papers have been published by the concerned organisations and encyclopaedia like Springer's \"Encyclopaedia of the History of Science, Technology, and Medicine in Non-Western Cultures\", International Water History Association (IWHA, Netherlands), UNESCO (Paris, France), Indian Water Resources Society (IWRS), World Water Forums, International Water Resources Association (IWRA, France), Rajasthan University (India), Aqua Foundation (India), etc.\n\nWith his first name Kamla Nath (Hindi: कमलानाथ), he has written satires and stories in Hindi language in different magazines of India since 1960s. These are compiled in many of the Hindi Compendia. His collection of satires in Hindi, titled \"Sahitya ka dhwani tattva urf sahityik big bang\" has been published in 2015 by Ayan Prakashan, New Delhi. In 2015, his story collection \"Bhaunrya Mo\" and in 2016 his satire collection \"Moorakh To Ekahi Bhalo\" were published by OnlineGatha – The Endless Tale, Lucknow, India in paperback as well as e-book editions.\n\nRajasthan Sahitya Academy, Udaipur has honoured him with Kanhaiyalal Sahal Award for the year 2018-19 for his satire collection \"Sahitya ka dhwani tattva urf sahityik big bang\".\n\nExternal sources\n\n1. Water Power Engineering\n\n2. Water in India: Spiritual and Technical Aspects\n\n3. Rio and Vedas\n\n4. Environmental protection\n\n5. Profile\n\n6. Food Security Imperatives in Developing Countries\n\n7. Environment in Ancient India \n8. Status of Water in Ancient Indian Literature and Mythology\n"}
{"id": "315084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315084", "title": "Lip reading", "text": "Lip reading\n\nLip reading, also known as lipreading or speechreading, is a technique of understanding speech by visually interpreting the movements of the lips, face and tongue when normal sound is not available. It relies also on information provided by the context, knowledge of the language, and any residual hearing. Although ostensibly used by deaf and hard-of-hearing people, most people with normal hearing process some speech information from sight of the moving mouth.\n\nAlthough speech perception is considered to be an auditory skill, it is intrinsically multimodal, since producing speech requires the speaker to make movements of the lips, teeth and tongue which are often visible in face-to-face communication. Information from the lips and face supports aural comprehension and most fluent listeners of a language are sensitive to seen speech actions (see McGurk effect). The extent to which people make use of seen speech actions varies with the visibility of the speech action and the knowledge and skill of the perceiver.\n\nThe phoneme is the smallest detectable unit of sound in a language that serves to distinguish words from one another. /pit/ and /pik/ differ by one phoneme and refer to different concepts. Spoken English has about 44 phonemes. For lip reading, the number of visually distinctive units - visemes - is much smaller, thus several phonemes map onto a few visemes. This is because many phonemes are produced within the mouth and throat, and cannot be seen. These include glottal consonants and most gestures of the tongue. Voiced and unvoiced pairs look identical, such as [p] and [b], [k] and [g], [t] and [d], [f] and [v], and [s] and [z]; likewise for nasalisation (e.g. [m] vs. [b]). Homophenes are words that look similar when lip read, but which contain different phonemes. Because there are about three times as many phonemes as visemes in English, it is often claimed that only 30% of speech can be lip read. Homophenes are a crucial source of mis-lip reading.\n\nVisemes can be captured as still images, but speech unfolds in time. The smooth articulation of speech sounds in sequence can mean that mouth patterns may be ‘shaped’ by an adjacent phoneme: the ‘th’ sound in ‘tooth’ and in ‘teeth’ appears very different because of the vocalic context. This feature of dynamic speech-reading affects lip-reading 'beyond the viseme'.\n\nThe statistical distribution of phonemes within the lexicon of a language is uneven. While there are clusters of words which are phonemically similar to each other ('lexical neighbors', such as spit/sip/sit/stick...etc.), others are unlike all other words: they are 'unique' in terms of the distribution of their phonemes ('umbrella' may be an example). Skilled users of the language bring this knowledge to bear when interpreting speech, so it is generally harder to identify a heard word with many lexical neighbors than one with few neighbors. Applying this insight to seen speech, some words in the language can be unambiguously lip-read even when they contain few visemes - simply because no other words could possibly 'fit'.\n\nMany factors affect the visibility of a speaking face, including illumination, movement of the head/camera, frame-rate of the moving image and distance from the viewer (see e.g.). Head movement that accompanies normal speech can also improve lip-reading, independently of oral actions. However, when lip-reading connected speech, the viewer's knowledge of the spoken language, familiarity with the speaker and style of speech, and the context of the lip-read material are as important as the visibility of the speaker. While most hearing people are sensitive to seen speech, there is great variability in individual speechreading skill. Good lipreaders are often more accurate than poor lipreaders at identifying phonemes from visual speech.\n\nA simple visemic measure of 'lipreadability' has been questioned by some researchers. The 'phoneme equivalence class' measure takes into account the statistical structure of the lexicon and can also accommodate individual differences in lip-reading ability. In line with this, excellent lipreading is often associated with more broad-based cognitive skills including general language proficiency, executive function and working memory.\n\nSeeing the mouth plays a role in the very young infant's early sensitivity to speech, and prepares them to become speakers at 1 – 2 years. In order to imitate, a baby must learn to shape their lips in accordance with the sounds they hear; seeing the speaker may help them to do this. Newborns imitate adult mouth movements such as sticking out the tongue or opening the mouth, which could be a precursor to further imitation and later language learning. Infants are disturbed when audiovisual speech of a familiar speaker is desynchronized and tend to show different looking patterns for familiar than for unfamiliar faces when matched to (recorded) voices. Infants are sensitive to McGurk illusions months before they have learned to speak. These studies and many more point to a role for vision in the development of sensitivity to (auditory) speech in the first half-year of life.\n\nUntil around six months of age, most hearing infants are sensitive to a wide range of speech gestures - including ones that can be seen on the mouth - which may or may not later be part of the phonology of their native language. But in the second six months of life, the hearing infant shows perceptual narrowing for the phonetic structure of their own language - and may lose the early sensitivity to mouth patterns that are not useful. The speech sounds /v/ and /b/ which are visemically distinctive in English but not in Castilian Spanish are accurately distinguished in Spanish-exposed and English-exposed babies up to the age of around 6 months. However, older Spanish-exposed infants lose the ability to 'see' this distinction, while it is retained for English-exposed infants. Such studies suggest that rather than hearing and vision developing in independent ways in infancy, multimodal processing is the rule, not the exception, in (language) development of the infant brain.\n\nGiven the many studies indicating a role for vision in the development of language in the pre-lingual infant, the effects of congenital blindness on language development are surprisingly small. 18-month-olds learn new words more readily when they hear them, and do not learn them when they are shown the speech movements without hearing. However, children blind from birth can confuse /m/ and /n/ in their own early production of English words – a confusion rarely seen in sighted hearing children, since /m/ and /n/ are visibly distinctive, but auditorilly confusable. The role of vision in children aged 1–2 years may be less critical to the production of their native language, since, by that age, they have attained the skills they need to identify and imitate speech sounds. However, hearing a non-native language can shift the child's attention to visual and auditory engagement by way of lipreading and listening in order to process, understand and produce speech.\n\nStudies with pre-lingual infants and children use indirect, non-verbal measures to indicate sensitivity to seen speech. \"Explicit\" lip-reading can be reliably tested in hearing preschoolers by asking them to 'say aloud what I say silently'. In school-age children, lipreading of familiar closed-set words such as number words can be readily elicited. Individual differences in lip-reading skill, as tested by asking the child to 'speak the word that you lip-read', or by matching a lip-read utterance to a picture, show a relationship between lip-reading skill and age.\n\nWhile lip-reading silent speech poses a challenge for most hearing people, adding sight of the speaker to heard speech improves speech processing under many conditions. The mechanisms for this, and the precise ways in which lip-reading helps, are topics of current research.\nSeeing the speaker helps at all levels of speech processing from phonetic feature discrimination to interpretation of pragmatic utterances.\nThe positive effects of adding vision to heard speech are greater in noisy than quiet environments,\nwhere by making speech perception easier, seeing the speaker can free up cognitive resources, enabling deeper processing of speech content.\n\nAs hearing becomes less reliable in old-age people may tend to rely more on lip-reading, and are encouraged to do so. However, greater reliance on lip-reading may not always make good the effects of age-related hearing loss. Cognitive decline in aging may be preceded by and/or associated with measurable hearing loss. Thus lipreading may not always be able to fully compensate for the combined hearing and cognitive age-related decrements.\n\nA number of studies report anomalies of lipreading in populations with distinctive developmental disorders. Autism: People with autism may show reduced lipreading abilities and reduced reliance on vision in audiovisual speech perception. This may be associated with gaze-to-the-face anomalies in these people. Williams syndrome: People with Williams syndrome show some deficits in speechreading which may be independent of their visuo-spatial difficulties. Specific Language Impairment: Children with SLI are also reported to show reduced lipreading sensitivity, as are people with dyslexia.\n\n\"When you are deaf you live inside a well-corked glass bottle. You see the entrancing outside world, but it does not reach you. After learning to lip read, you are still inside the bottle, but the cork has come out and the outside world slowly but surely comes in to you.\" Debate has raged for hundreds of years over the role of lip-reading ('oralism') compared with other communication methods (most recently, total communication) in the education of deaf people. The extent to which one or other approach is beneficial depends on a range of factors, including level of hearing loss of the deaf person, age of hearing loss, parental involvement and parental language(s). Then there is a question concerning the aims of the deaf person and her community and carers. Is the aim of education to enhance communication generally, to develop sign language as a first language, or to develop skills in the spoken language of the hearing community? Researchers now focus on which aspects of language and communication may be best delivered by what means and in which contexts, given the hearing status of the child and her family, and their educational plans. Bimodal bilingualism (proficiency in both speech and sign language) is one dominant current approach in language education for the deaf child.\n\nDeaf people are often better lip-readers than people with normal hearing. Some deaf people practice as professional lipreaders, for instance in forensic lipreading. In deaf people who have a cochlear implant, pre-implant lip-reading skill can predict post-implant (auditory or audiovisual) speech processing. For many deaf people, access to spoken communication can be helped when a spoken message is relayed via a trained, \"professional lip-speaker\".\n\nIn connection with lipreading and literacy development, children born deaf typically show delayed development of literacy skills which can reflect difficulties in acquiring elements of the spoken language. In particular, reliable phoneme-grapheme mapping may be more difficult for deaf children, who need to be skilled speech-readers in order to master this necessary step in literacy acquisition. Lip-reading skill is associated with literacy abilities in deaf adults and children and training in lipreading may help to develop literacy skills.\n\nCued Speech uses lipreading with accompanying hand shapes that disambiguate the visemic (consonant) lipshape. Cued speech is said to be easier for hearing parents to learn than a sign language, and studies, primarily from Belgium, show that a deaf child exposed to cued speech in infancy can make more efficient progress in learning a spoken language than from lipreading alone\n. The use of cued speech in cochlear implantation for deafness is likely to be positive. A similar approach, involving the use of handshapes accompanying seen speech, is Visual Phonics, which is used by some educators to support the learning of written and spoken language.\n\nThe aim of teaching and training in lipreading is to develop awareness of the nature of lipreading, and to practice ways of improving the ability to perceive speech 'by eye'. Lipreading classes, often called \"lipreading and managing hearing loss classes\", are mainly aimed at adults who have hearing loss. The highest proportion of adults with hearing loss have an age related, or noise related loss, and with both these the high frequency sounds are lost first. Since many of the consonants in speech are high frequency sounds, speech becomes distorted. Hearing aids help, but may not cure this. Lipreading classes have been shown to be of benefit in UK studies commissioned by the charity, Action on Hearing Loss in 2012.\n\nTrainers recognise that lipreading is an inexact art. Students are taught to watch the lips, tongue and jaw movements, to follow the stress and rhythm of language, to use their residual hearing, with or without hearing aids, to watch expression and body language, and use their ability to put two and two together. They are taught the lipreaders alphabet, groups of sounds that look alike on the lips (visemes) like p, b, m, or f, v. The aim is to get the gist, so as to have the confidence to join in conversation, and avoid damaging social isolation that often accompanies hearing loss. Lipreading classes are recommended for anyone who struggles to hear in noise, and help to adjust to hearing loss.\nATLA (the association for teaching lipreading to adults) is the professional association in the UK for qualified lipreading tutors.\n\nMost tests of lipreading were devised to measure individual differences in performing specific speech processing tasks, and to detect changes in performance following training. Lipreading tests have been used with relatively small groups in experimental settings, or as clinical indicators with individual patients and clients. That is, lipreading tests to date have limited validity as markers of lipreading skill in the general population.\n\nAutomated lip-reading has been a topic of interest in computational engineering, as well as in . The computational engineer Steve Omohundro, among others, pioneered its development. In facial animation, the aim is to generate realistic facial actions, especially mouth movements, that simulate human speech actions. Computer algorithms to deform or manipulate images of faces can be driven by heard or written language. Systems may be based on detailed models derived from facial movements (motion capture); on anatomical modelling of actions of the jaw, mouth and tongue; or on mapping of known viseme- phoneme properties. Facial animation has been used in speechreading training (demonstrating how different sounds 'look'). These systems are a subset of speech synthesis modelling which aim to deliver reliable 'text-to-(seen)-speech' outputs. A complementary aim—the reverse of making faces move in speech—is to develop computer algorithms that can deliver realistic interpretations of speech (i.e. a written transcript or audio record) from natural video data of a face in action: this is facial speech recognition. These models too can be sourced from a variety of data. Automatic visual speech recognition from video has been quite successful in distinguishing different languages (from a corpus of spoken language data). Demonstration models, using machine-learning algorithms, have had some success in lipreading speech elements, such as specific words, from video and for identifying hard-to-lipread phonemes from visemically similar seen mouth actions. Machine-based speechreading is now making successful use of neural-net based algorithms which use large databases of speakers and speech material (following the successful model for auditory automatic speech recognition).\n\nUses for machine lipreading could include automated lipreading of video-only records, automated lipreading of speakers with damaged vocal tracts, and speech processing in face-to-face video (i.e. from videophone data). Automated lipreading may help in processing noisy or unfamiliar speech. Automated lipreading may contribute to biometric person identification, replacing password-based identification.\n\nFollowing the discovery that auditory brain regions, including Heschl's gyrus, were activated by seen speech, the neural circuitry for speechreading was shown to include supra-modal processing regions, especially superior temporal sulcus (all parts) as well as posterior inferior occipital-temporal regions including regions specialised for the processing of faces and biological motion. In some but not all studies, activation of Broca's area is reported for speechreading, suggesting that articulatory mechanisms can be activated in speechreading. Studies of the time course of audiovisual speech processing showed that sight of speech can prime auditory processing regions in advance of the acoustic signal. Better lipreading skill is associated with greater activation in (left) superior temporal sulcus and adjacent inferior temporal (visual) regions in hearing people. In deaf people, the circuitry devoted to speechreading appears to be very similar to that in hearing people, with similar associations of (left) superior temporal activation and lipreading skill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39968528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39968528", "title": "List of television actors who died during production", "text": "List of television actors who died during production\n\nThe following is a list of television actors who died during production of the television show in which they were appearing. In many cases, a show will handle the death of an actor by killing off their character or otherwise writing them out of the show. In other cases, the show may recast the part with another actor. In extreme cases, the show may be cancelled outright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5579949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5579949", "title": "M Abdur Rahim Medical College and Hospital", "text": "M Abdur Rahim Medical College and Hospital\n\nM Abdur Rahim Medical College, Dinajpur (MARMC) () is a government medical school in Bangladesh, established in 1992. It is located in the Dinajpur District of Rangpur Division. It is affiliated with Rajshahi University. It was renamed from Dinajpur Medical College and Hospital to M Abdur Rahim Medical College and Hospital after M. Abdur Rahim.\n\nIt offers five-year medical education course leading to MBBS. One-year internship after graduation is compulsory for all graduates. The degree is recognised by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental council.It also offers some postgraduate courses under BSMMU. Graduates of this medical college are eligible for USMLE, PLAB examination and the degree is recognised by WHO. Dinajpur Medical College is listed in IMED\n\nIn the year 1978–79 Bangladesh government planned to establish medical colleges at Bogra, Comilla, Dinajpur, Faridpur, Kushtia, Khulna, Noakhali and Pabna with a view to improve the healthcare services in the country. Keeping this view in mind in the year 1980–81 medical colleges were started functioning at Comilla, Khulna, Pabna and IPGMR (Dhaka). Subsequently, the programme was abandoned and the students were shifted to the established existing eight medical colleges. In the year 1991–92 the government felt the need of establishment more medical colleges for medical education facilities in the country and thereby release the burden imposed on the existing medical colleges. Accordingly, the government made commitment to establish 5 new medical colleges at Dinajpur, Bogra, Khulna, Faridpur and Comilla. Thus 5 medical colleges had been established in 1999-91-year with annual intake of 50 students each medical college. On 16 August 1992 Dinajpur Medical Colleges started functioning at Dinajpur main town occupying a hostel of general government college and a rented private building named 'Hamana Bhaban'. It was shifted to new building proper at Ananada Sagor area near Dinajpur main town on 1 July 2000. Dinajpur Sadar hospital was used as temporary medical college hospital. Medical college was started functioning in building proper in college campus on 7 March 2010.Now Dinajpur Medical College and Hospital is have excellent campus with annual intake of approximately 150 students.\n\nM Abdur Rahim medical college Hospital is one of the largest hospitals in the Northern part of Bangladesh. It is a 500-bed teaching hospital. There are 17 operation theatres in the hospital, of which, 12 are general, two emergency, one labour and two daily. The hospital has introduced some new departments, including cancer, urology and radiotherapy.The hospital building has an underground car parking facility. It has the ability to accommodate above 1000 patients. The present government has decided to open 20 bed burn unit in this medical college hospital. PGT trainings are also given in the hospital. This Medical college is affiliated by Bangladesh College of Physicians and Surgeon for undertaking any post graduate training and Postgraduate courses. Many facilities like academics, research and residency are available here.\n\nIt is two storied building, situated at the south-west corner of the DjMC Playground.\n\nThe name of the boys hostel is Dr. Md. Yousuf Ali Hall. It includes two four-storied buildings beside the play ground.\nThe name of the girls hostel is Dr. Md. Taibur Rahman Hall. It includes three four-storied building.It has three blocks. Eastern block, Western block and Main hostel.\n\nThere are two four-storied building for intern doctors. One for boys and one for girls. They are well decorated and behind the hospital for 24-hour medical service.\n\nThere is a well-developed nursing college affilited with the hospital. It provides training for young nurses. There are also hostels for nurses near the hospital.\n\n\nThe principal is Kanta Roy Rimi. The vice-principal is Abdus Salam \n\n\nDinajpur Medical College admits 150 students into the MBBS degree programme yearly under the government medical admission test. Dinajpur Medical College is under DGHS and curriculum by BMDC(Bangladesh medical and dental council). Like other government medical colleges, to be admitted into Dinajpur Medical College need to be follow DGHS rules.\nThe admission test is conducted centrally by Director of Medical Education under DGHS. Dinajpur Medical College admits a good number of postgraduate students on different postgraduate courses offering by the college under BSMMU.Dinajpur Medical College is affiliated by BSMMU and BCPS. For foreign students, admission is through the Embassy of Bangladesh in respective countries. Many students from Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan are Studying here. 21 batches have passed from this medical college successfully.\n\nDinajpur Medical College offers both Undergraduate and Postgraduate degrees.\n\n\"Undergraduate:\" MBBS\n\n\"Postgraduate:\"\n\n1. Diploma in Cardiology \n\n2. Diploma in Obs & Gynae\n\n3. Diploma in Orthopaedic Surgery\n\n4. Diploma in Anaesthesiology\n\n5. Diploma in Laboratory Medicine\n\nPosgraduate program was inaugurated by Prof.Dr.Pran Gopal Datta, Vice-Chancellor, BSMMU.\n\nDinajpur Medical College Journal (DjMCJ) is BMDC recognised journal, published twice a year. It accepts original papers, review articles, case reports and short communications related to various disciplines of medical science for publication. Paper should be solely contributed to the Journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2655504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2655504", "title": "Malpasset Dam", "text": "Malpasset Dam\n\nThe Malpasset Dam was an arch dam on the Reyran River, located approximately 7 km north of Fréjus on the French Riviera (Côte d'Azur), southern France, in the Var département. It collapsed on December 2, 1959, killing 423 people in the resulting flood. The damage amounted to an equivalent total of $68 million.\n\nThe dam was a doubly curved equal angle arch type with variable radius. It was built to supply drinking and irrigation water for the region. Construction began in April 1952 and was finished in 1954. Another source reports that construction began as early as 1941. Delays due to lack of funding and labor strikes interrupted construction a few times. The project was led by well-known French engineer André Coyne. Construction cost 580 million francs (by 1955 prices), and was funded and owned by Var département. Concurrent with the dam construction, the A8 autoroute was also being built 1,400 meters further down the course of the Reyran from the dam location.\n\nThe dam was supposed to regulate the rate of the flow of the river that it was near and store 50 million m cubed of water for agriculture, and domestic use and for the tourism sector of the area. The dam was 222 metres in width, 66 metres high, and had a thickness of 6.78 metres at the base and 1.5 metres at the rim.\n\nDuring November 1959, there are first warning signs as \"trickle of clear water observed high on the right [side]\" and then cracks noticed later in the month in the concert apron at the dam toe.\n\nThe dam was breached at 21:13 on December 2, 1959. This was partially due to the water level in the dam rising at a fast pace due to rainfall, and by noon on 2 December 1959 the reservoir had reached its maximum level. The guardian Ferro asked for permission to release the excess water and was denied the ability to do so until 6pm of that day, the amount of water was so high it took 3 hours to release only a few centimeters of water. The entire wall collapsed with only a few blocks remaining on the right bank. Pieces of the dam are still scattered throughout the area.\n\nThe breach created a massive dam break wave, or wall of water, high and moving at per hour, destroying two small villages, Malpasset and Bozon, the highway construction site, and in 20 minutes, still standing high, reaching Fréjus. The water was recorded traveling at speeds up to 70 kph with large chunks of the concrete wall some weighing up to 600 tons. Various small roads and railroad tracks were also destroyed, water flooding the western half of Fréjus and finally reaching the sea.\n\nIt was reported that the death toll of the dam breach was 423, with 135 children under the age of 15, 15 minors between 15 and 21 years old, 134 men, 112 women, and 27 individuals that were never identified. Separately 79 children were orphaned. Additionally, 83 people were injured. The physical toll was higher with 155 buildings destroyed, 796 buildings damaged, and 1350 hectares destroyed, totaling the amount of destruction to be about 425 million euros in 2010 terms.\n\nGeological and hydrological studies were conducted in 1946 and the dam location was considered suitable. Due to lack of proper funding, however, the geological study of the region was not thorough. The lithology underlying the dam is a metamorphic rock called gneiss. This rock type is known to be relatively impermeable, meaning that there is no significant groundwater flow within the rock unit, and it does not allow water to penetrate the ground. On the right side (looking down the river), was also rock, and a concrete wing wall was constructed to connect the wall to the ground. \n\nA tectonic fault was later found as the most likely cause of the disaster. Other factors contributed as well; the water pressure was aimed diagonally towards the dam wall, and was not found initially. As a consequence, water collected under a wall and was unable to escape through the ground due to the impermeability of the gneiss rock underneath the dam. Finally, another theory quotes a source stating that explosions during building of the highway might have caused shifting of the rock base of the dam. Weeks before the breach, some cracking noises were heard, but they were not examined. It is not clear when the cracking noises started. The right side of the dam had some leaks in November 1959. \n\nBetween November 19 and December 2, there was of rainfall, and in 24 hours before the breach. The water level in the dam was only away from the edge. Rain continued, and the dam guardian wanted to open the discharge valves, but the authorities refused, claiming the highway construction site was in danger of flooding. Five hours before the breach, at 18:00 hours, the water release valves were opened, but with a discharge rate of 40 m³/s, it was not enough to empty the reservoir in time.\n\nUntil the Malpasset incident, only 4 other incidents of arch-type dam breaches were recorded:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59222969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59222969", "title": "MomConnect", "text": "MomConnect\n\nMomConnect is an initiative of the South African National Department of Health produced by the Praekelt Foundation. It uses cell phone based technology to support maternal health. It is available in all the 11 official South African languages. NurseConnect is a related project for maternity staff. It is the only nationally scaled mHealth platform in Africa.\n\nIt was launched by Aaron Motsoaledi in August 2014. More than 900 000 pregnant women signed up for weekly texts by December 2016. A specialist HIV service was started in 2017. The weekly SMS messages continue until the baby's first birthday.\n\nPregnancies can be easily and quickly registred in the public health system using the system. Calls are free. Nearly 2 million pregnant women and new mothers have used it. From December 2017 it was made available on WhatsApp which allows richer and real-time interaction and makes delivery of personal messages more secure and affordable.\n\nThe Helpdesk makes use of machine learning to help operators address frequently asked questions. The WhatsApp’s built-in location-based services enables users to see their nearest clinics.\n"}
{"id": "53533778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53533778", "title": "National Sleep Foundation", "text": "National Sleep Foundation\n\nThe National Sleep Foundation (NSF) is a U.S. nonprofit organization that promotes public understanding of sleep and sleep disorders. It engages in various activities to advance its purpose and goals, including the operation of several websites and the sponsorship of research. Though the foundation denies endorsing commercial products, some sellers have claimed that their products have some sort of \"official\" status with it.\n\nFounded in 1990, the nonprofit National Sleep Foundation promotes public understanding of sleep and sleep disorders. It seeks to improve public health and safety by supporting sleep-related education, research, and advocacy.\n\nThe foundation's goals are increased understanding of the importance of sleep to good health and productivity; prevention and/or remediation of health and safety problems related to insufficient sleep and untreated sleep disorders; expanded scientific research in sleep and sleep medicine; and implementation of public policy that promotes sleep education, research and treatment. The foundation is based in Arlington, Virginia.\n\nThe foundation engages in various activities to advance its purpose and goals. Many of these are described on its website. To help reduce the incidence and consequences of sleep-deprived driving, it sponsors Drowsy Driving Prevention Week and maintains a \"Drowsy Driving\" website. To inform the public about the positive benefits of sleep health, it operates a sleep health website, covering sleep science, bedroom design, lifestyle, and the effect of age on sleep requirements. Its promotional activities have been occasionally covered by national news media.\n\nResearch sponsored by the National Sleep Foundation has been published in journal of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, and its educational conferences have been provisionally accredited for Continuing Medical Education credits by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education.\n\nThe foundation's programs are funded by corporate and individual contributions, and through its partnerships with corporations and government entities. Its recent revenues are in the $3.5 million range, and its recent assets are about $5 million. Contributions are tax-deductible. According to then-CEO Richard Gelula, \"The largest single source of National Sleep Foundation funding is pharmaceutical and medical device companies.\" In particular, nearly $1 million of its $3.6 million budget at the time came from manufacturers of sleeping medications.\n\nThe NSF has been criticized by the American Institute of Philanthropy, Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe of Public Citizen's Health Research Group, Jerry Avorn (head of the Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics at Harvard Medical School), and other consumer and medical ethics groups for its reliance on industry funding, and the possible influence of such funding on its work. In 2005, for instance, they released a survey purporting to find extremely high rates of insomnia, declared insomnia to be a \"crisis\" and an \"epidemic,\" announced an \"Insomnia Awareness Day\" and a \"National Sleep Awareness Week,\" but the poll, the declaration of a dedicated day and week, and the widely distributed press kits were paid for by manufacturers of sleeping medications, and the public relations firm assigned to contact medical reporters about the poll took the opportunity to mention the shortly-approaching release of Lunesta (eszopiclone), the first sleeping medication approved in the United States for extended use. Simultaneously, the drug's manufacturer assigned 1,250 pharmaceutical sales representatives to educate physicians about Lunesta, as part of a $60 million advertising push.\n\nA Sacramento Bee report on these connections also noted that 10 of NSF's 23-member Board of Directors had current or past financial ties to manufacturers of sleeping medications.\n\nA previous 2002 \"Sleep in America\" poll from NSF, which similarly characterized the results as revealing an \"epidemic\" of daytime sleepiness in its press release, was similarly characterized in a report by The Seattle Times as industry \"astroturfing\" due to sponsorship from the makers of the sleeping medications Unisom, Sonata, and Ambien.\n\nSimilarly, NSF also worked with pharmaceutical company Merck to launch what they characterized as a \"new educational program that highlights personal stories about sleep for four individuals from across the country;\" a report in the Huffington Post described this effort as part of a multi-pronged \"unbranded\" marketing effort for Belsomra (suvorexant), Merck's then-forthcoming new sleeping drug.\n\nSepracor, manufacturer of Lunesta, also awarded a $300,000 grant to NSF for a series of \"Sleep Medicine Alert\" brochures designed raise awareness of insomnia amongst physicians.\nThough the foundation claims that it does not make commercial endorsements, some merchants and products have claimed to be \"endorsed by the National Sleep Foundation\" or have implied such endorsement in their literature. Notable among these is My Pillow, which makes such claims in its very-frequently-run television ads. In 2016, My Pillow agreed to stop making this claim in California, and paid a large fine for this and other claims.\n\nNational Sleep Foundation Official website\n"}
{"id": "38272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38272", "title": "Nicotine", "text": "Nicotine\n\nNicotine is an antiherbivory alkaloid and potent parasympathomimetic stimulant and found in plants, mostly those in the nightshade family. Nicotine acts as a receptor agonist at most nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), except at two nicotinic receptor subunits (nAChRα9 and nAChRα10) where it acts as a receptor antagonist.\n\nNicotine is highly addictive. It is one of the most commonly abused drugs. An average cigarette yields about 2 mg of absorbed nicotine, while high amounts (30–60 mg) can be harmful. Nicotine induces both behavioral stimulation and anxiety in animals. Nicotine addiction involves drug-reinforced behavior, compulsive use, and relapse following abstinence. Nicotine dependence involves tolerance, sensitization, physical dependence, and psychological dependence. Nicotine dependency causes distress. Nicotine withdrawal symptoms include depressed mood, stress, anxiety, irritability, difficulty concentrating, and sleep disturbances. Mild nicotine withdrawal symptoms are measurable in unrestricted smokers, who experience normal moods only as their blood nicotine levels peak, with each cigarette. On quitting, withdrawal symptoms worsen sharply, then gradually improve to a normal state. The evidence suggests that exposure to nicotine between the ages of 10 and 25 years causes lasting harm to the brain and cognitive ability. Nicotine use during pregnancy increases the child's risk of type 2 diabetes, obesity, hypertension, neurobehavioral defects, respiratory problems, and infertility.\n\nNicotine use as a tool for quitting smoking has a good safety history. Nicotine use in the form of nicotine replacement products poses less of a cancer risk than smoking. There is inadequate data to establish if nicotine is itself a carcinogen, but there is evidence of possible risks. The health effects of long-term nicotine replacement use were unknown as of 2014. Overdose on nicotine-containing products results in nicotine poisoning. The use of electronic cigarettes, which are designed to be refilled with nicotine-containing e-liquid, has raised concerns over nicotine overdoses, especially with regard to the possibility of young children ingesting the liquids.\n\nNicotine is found in the leaves of \"Nicotiana rustica\" (in amounts of 2–14%); in the tobacco plant, \"Nicotiana tabacum\" (in amounts of 1–3%\n); in \"Duboisia hopwoodii\"; and in \"Asclepias syriaca\". It constitutes approximately 0.6–3.0% of the dry weight of tobacco.\n\nConcentrations of nicotine in dry tobacco are about a hundred thousand times the concentrations in common foodstuffs. Usually consistent concentrations of nicotine varying from 2–7 µg/kg (20–70 millionths of a percent wet weight) are found in the edible family Solanaceae, such as potatoes, tomatoes, and eggplant. Some research indicates that the contribution of nicotine obtained from food is substantial in comparison to inhalation of second-hand smoke, while others consider nicotine obtained from food to be trivial unless exceeedingly high amounts of certain vegetables are eaten.\n\nNicotine content in tea leaves is greatly inconsistent and in some cases considerably greater than in the Solanaceae fruits.\n\nThe primary therapeutic use of nicotine is in treating nicotine dependence in order to eliminate smoking with the damage it does to health. Controlled levels of nicotine are given to patients through gums, dermal patches, lozenges, electronic/substitute cigarettes or nasal sprays in an effort to wean them off their dependence. Studies have found that these therapies increase the chance of success of quitting by 50 to 70%, though reductions in the population as a whole have not been demonstrated.\n\nIn contrast to recreational nicotine products, which have been designed to maximize the likelihood of addiction, nicotine replacement products (NRTs) are designed to minimize addictiveness. The more quickly a dose of nicotine is delivered and absorbed, the higher the addiction risk. Some forms of NRT deliver nicotine more quickly than others, and it is possible to become dependent on some NRTs.\n\nNicotine has been used as an insecticide since at least the 1690s, in the form of tobacco extracts (although other components of tobacco also seem to have pesticide effects). Nicotine pesticides have not been commercially available in the US since 2014, and homemade pesticides are banned on organic crops and counterrecommended for small gardeners. Nicotine pesticides have been banned in the EU since 2009. Foods are imported from countries in which nicotine pesticides are allowed, such as China, but foods may not exceed maximum nicotine levels. Neonicotinoids, which are derived from and structurally similar to nicotine, are widely used as agricultural and veterinary pesticides as of 2016.\n\nIn nicotine-producing plants, nicotine functions as an antiherbivory chemical; consequently, nicotine has been widely used as an insecticide, and neonicotinoids, such as imidacloprid, are widely used.\n\nNicotine-containing products are sometimes used for the performance-enhancing effects of nicotine on cognition. A meta-analysis of 41 double-blind, placebo-controlled studies concluded that nicotine or smoking had significant positive effects on aspects of fine motor abilities, alerting and orienting attention, and episodic and working memory. A 2015 review noted that stimulation of the α4β2 nicotinic receptor is responsible for certain improvements in attentional performance; among the nicotinic receptor subtypes, nicotine has the highest binding affinity at the α4β2 receptor (k=1 ), which is also the biological target that mediates nicotine's addictive properties. Nicotine has potential beneficial effects, but it also has paradoxical effects, which may be due to the inverted U-shape of the dose-response curve or pharmacokinetic features.\n\nNicotine is used as a recreational drug. Nicotine has become widely used because it is highly addictive, which makes it hard to quit using it; nicotine is normally used compulsively, and dependence can develop within days. Smokers dependent on nicotine suffer worsened mood whenever their blood nicotine levels fall, and commonly take nicotine for its mood-normalizing effects. Other recreational nicotine products include chewing tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, e-cigarettes, snuff, pipe tobacco, and snus.\n\nNicotine is not completely harmless, but it is safer than tobacco. Nicotine has a negative impact on public health worldwide. The health effects of long-term nicotine use is unknown. Among all of the compounds in tobacco, nicotine is the primary constituent that contributes to tobacco addiction. The long-term health effects of nicotine in the form of vapor is unknown. Nicotine exposure regardless of the duration has not been found to be dangerous in adults.\n\nThe long-term use of nicotine in the form of snus incurs a slight risk of cardiovascular disease compared to tobacco smoking and there is evidence of an increased risk in snus users of heart failure. The available literature strengthens the evidence that any cancer risk (including that of pancreatic cancer) is at most minimal. The complex effects of nicotine are not entirely understood. Some studies of continued use of nicotine replacement products in those who have stopped smoking found no adverse effects from months to several years, and other studies suggest that people with cardiovascular disease were able to tolerate them for up to 12 weeks.\n\nThe general medical position is that nicotine itself poses few health risks, except among certain vulnerable groups. Adolescents (those 12-20, or 12-25 years of age) seems to be more vulnerable to the negative effects of nicotine on the central nervous system; and more likely to become dependent; 90% of US adult smokers began before the age of 20. A 2016 Royal College of Physicians report found \"nicotine alone in the doses used by smokers represents little if any hazard to the user\". A 2014 American Heart Association policy statement found that some health concerns relate to nicotine. These concerns are associated with nicotine being able to facilitate the release of catecholamines, including hemodynamic effects, etc. Experimental research suggests that adolescent nicotine use may harm brain development. Nicotine use through vaping is harmful for children. Children exposed to nicotine may have a number of lifelong health issues. As medicine, nicotine is used to help with quitting smoking and has good safety in this form.\n\nBy reducing the appetite and raising the metabolism, a certain number of smokers may lose weight as a consequence. By increasing metabolic rate and inhibiting the usual compensatory increase in appetite, the body weight of smokers is lower on average than that of non-smokers. When smokers quit, they gain on average 5–6 kg weight, returning to the average weight of non-smokers. The evidence suggests that heavy smokers tend to gain more weight compared with light smokers. The factors causing heavy smokers to tend to gain more weight than light smokers or non-smokers has not been resolved.\n\nA 2014 review found that nicotine use is not a significant cause of cardiovascular disease. A 2015 review found that nicotine is associated with cardiovascular disease. Nicotine could trigger atrial fibrillation and other abnormal cardiovascular events, such as the acute myocardial infarction in a previously healthy man. Additionally, nicotine has potential vasoconstrictive effects on the brain. Snus use is associated with a somewhat reduced risk of non-fatal acute myocardial infarction, but with an increased risk of fatal acute myocardial infarction. A 2016 review suggests that \"the risks of nicotine without tobacco combustion products (cigarette smoke) are low compared to cigarette smoking, but are still of concern in people with cardiovascular disease.\" Some studies in people show the possibility that nicotine contributes to acute cardiovascular events in smokers with established cardiovascular disease, and induces pharmacologic effects that might contribute to increased atherosclerosis. Prolonged nicotine use seems not to increase atherosclerosis. Brief nicotine use, such as nicotine medicine, seems to incur a slight cardiovascular risk, even to people with established cardiovascular disease. A 2015 review found \"Nicotine \"in vitro\" and in animal models can inhibit apoptosis and enhance angiogenesis, effects that raise concerns about the role of nicotine in promoting the acceleration of atherosclerotic disease.\" A 2012 Cochrane review found no evidence of an increased risk of cardiovascular disease with nicotine replacement products. A 1996 randomized controlled trial using nicotine patches found that serious adverse events were not more frequent among smokers with cardiovascular disease. A meta-analysis shows that snus consumption, which delivers nicotine at a dose equivalent to that of cigarettes, is not associated with heart attacks. Hence, it is not nicotine, but tobacco smoke's other components which seem to be implicated in ischemic heart disease. Nicotine increases heart rate and blood pressure and induces abnormal heart rhythms. Nicotine can also induce potentially atherogenic genes in human coronary artery endothelial cells. Microvascular injury can result through its action on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Nicotine does not adversely affect serum cholesterol levels, but a 2015 review found it may elevate serum cholesterol levels. Many quitting smoking studies using nicotine medicines report lowered dyslipidemia with considerable benefit in HDL/LDL ratios. Nicotine supports clot formation and aids in plaque formation by enhancing vascular smooth muscle.\n\nAlthough there is insufficient evidence to classify nicotine as a carcinogen, there is an ongoing debate about whether it functions as a tumor promoter. \"In vitro\" studies have associated it with cancer, but carcinogenicity has not been demonstrated \"in vivo\". There is inadequate research to demonstrate that nicotine is associated with cancer in humans, but there is evidence indicating possible oral, esophageal, or pancreatic cancer risks. Nicotine can induce inflammation in the lungs that imitates metastatic cancer. Nicotine in the form of nicotine replacement products poses less of a cancer risk than smoking. Nicotine replacement products have not been shown to be associated with cancer in the real world. Nicotine exerts DNA damage in the \"Escherichia colipol A+/pol\"− test. Low levels of nicotine stimulate cell proliferation, while high levels are cytotoxic.\n\nWhile no epidemiological evidence directly supports the notion that nicotine acts as a carcinogen in the formation of human cancer, research has identified nicotine's indirect involvement in cancer formation in animal models and cell cultures. Nicotine increases cholinergic signalling and adrenergic signalling in the case of colon cancer, thereby impeding apoptosis (programmed cell death), promoting tumor growth, and activating growth factors and cellular mitogenic factors such as 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), and epidermal growth factor (EGF). Nicotine also promotes cancer growth by stimulating angiogenesis and neovascularization. In one study, nicotine administered to mice with tumors caused increases in tumor size (twofold increase), metastasis (nine-fold increase), and tumor recurrence (threefold increase). \"N\"-Nitrosonornicotine (NNN), classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as a Group 1 carcinogen, has been shown to form \"in vitro\" from nornicotine in human saliva, indicating nornicotine is a carcinogen precursor. The IARC has not evaluated pure nicotine or assigned it to an official carcinogenic classification.\n\nIn cancer cells, nicotine promotes the epithelial–mesenchymal transition which makes the cancer cells more resistant to drugs that treat cancer.\n\nNicotine is not safe to use in any amount during pregnancy. Nicotine crosses the placenta and is found in the breast milk of mothers who use nicotine replacement therapy (such as gum, nasal spray, lozenges), mothers who smoke, and mothers who inhale passive smoke. Nicotine from e-cigarettes can also harm the fetus, and the use of e-cigarettes in pregnancy is counterrecommended.\n\nWhile nicotine was once considered a \"safe\" component of cigarette smoke, there is now strong evidence that it harms the child. There is evidence that nicotine negatively affects fetal brain development and pregnancy outcomes (risk of stillbirth and pre-term birth). Nicotine use will probably harm fetal neurological development. Risks to the child later in life from nicotine exposure during pregnancy include type 2 diabetes, obesity, hypertension, neurobehavioral defects, respiratory dysfunction, and infertility.\n\nIn pregnancy, a 2013 review noted that \"Although the exact mechanisms by which nicotine produces adverse fetal effects are unknown, it is likely that hypoxia, undernourishment of the fetus, and direct vasoconstrictor effects on the placental and umbilical vessels all play a role. Nicotine also has been shown to have significant deleterious effects on brain development, including alterations in brain metabolism and neurotransmitter systems and abnormal brain development.\" It also notes that \"abnormalities of newborn neurobehavior, including impaired orientation and autonomic regulation and abnormalities of muscle tone, have been identified in a number of prenatal nicotine exposure studies\", that there is weak data associating fetal nicotine exposure with newborn facial clefts, that there is no good evidence for newborns suffering nicotine withdrawal from fetal exposure to nicotine, and that \"nicotine is only 1 of more than 4000 compounds to which the fetus is exposed through maternal smoking. Of these, ∼30 compounds have been associated with adverse health outcomes\".\n\nEffective 1 April 1990, the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) of the California Environmental Protection Agency added nicotine to the list of chemicals known to cause developmental toxicity.\n\nIn animals, it is relatively simple to determine if consumption of a certain drug increases the later attraction of another drug. In humans, where such direct experiments are not possible, longitudinal studies can show if the probability of a substance use is related to the earlier use of other substances.\n\nIn mice nicotine increased the probability of later consumption of cocaine and the experiments permitted concrete conclusions on the underlying molecular biological alteration in the brain. The biological changes in mice correspond to the epidemiological observations in humans that nicotine consumption is coupled to an increased probability of later use of cannabis and cocaine.\n\nIn rats cannabis consumption – earlier in life – increased the later self-administration of nicotine. A 2012 study of drug use of 14,577 US 12th graders showed that alcohol consumption was associated with an increased probability of later use of tobacco, cannabis, and illegal drugs.\n\nNicotine is regarded as a potentially lethal poison. The of nicotine is 50 mg/kg for rats and 3 mg/kg for mice. 30–60 mg (0.5–1.0 mg/kg) can be a lethal dosage for adult humans. However, the widely used human LD estimate of 0.5–1.0 mg/kg was questioned in a 2013 review, in light of several documented cases of humans surviving much higher doses; the 2013 review suggests that the lower limit causing fatal outcomes is 500–1000 mg of ingested nicotine, corresponding to 6.5–13 mg/kg orally. Nevertheless, nicotine has a relatively high toxicity in comparison to many other alkaloids such as caffeine, which has an LD of 127 mg/kg when administered to mice.\n\nAt high-enough doses, nicotine is poisonous. Today nicotine is less commonly used in agricultural insecticides, which was a main source of poisoning. More recent cases of poisoning typically appear to be in the form of Green Tobacco Sickness or due to accidental ingestion of tobacco or tobacco products or ingestion of nicotine-containing plants. People who harvest or cultivate tobacco may experience Green Tobacco Sickness (GTS), a type of nicotine poisoning caused by dermal exposure to wet tobacco leaves. This occurs most commonly in young, inexperienced tobacco harvesters who do not consume tobacco. People can be exposed to nicotine in the workplace by breathing it in, skin absorption, swallowing it, or eye contact. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set the legal limit (permissible exposure limit) for nicotine exposure in the workplace as 0.5 mg/m skin exposure over an 8-hour workday. The US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit (REL) of 0.5 mg/m skin exposure over an 8-hour workday. At environmental levels of 5 mg/m, nicotine is immediately dangerous to life and health.\n\nIt is unlikely that a person would overdose on nicotine through smoking alone. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated in 2013 that \"There are no significant safety concerns associated with using more than one OTC NRT at the same time, or using an OTC NRT at the same time as another nicotine-containing product—including a cigarette.\"\n\nThe rise in the use of electronic cigarettes, many forms of which are designed to be refilled with nicotine-containing e-liquid supplied in small plastic bottles, has raised concerns over nicotine overdoses, especially in the possibility of young children ingesting the liquids. A 2015 Public Health England report noted an \"unconfirmed newspaper report of a fatal poisoning of a two-year old child\" and two published case reports of children of similar age who had recovered after ingesting e-liquid and vomiting. They also noted case reports of suicides by nicotine. Where adults drank liquid containing up to 1,500 mg of nicotine they recovered (helped by vomiting), but an ingestion apparently of about 10,000 mg was fatal, as was an injection. They commented that \"Serious nicotine poisoning seems normally prevented by the fact that relatively low doses of nicotine cause nausea and vomiting, which stops users from further intake.\" The FDA recommends that e-cigarettes and e-liquids be kept in a safe place, where children and pets do not have access to them.\n\nNicotine is highly addictive. Nicotine dependence involves aspects of both psychological dependence and physical dependence, since discontinuation of extended use has been shown to produce both affective (e.g., anxiety, irritability, craving, anhedonia) and somatic (mild motor dysfunctions such as tremor) withdrawal symptoms. Withdrawal symptoms peak in one to three days and can persist for several weeks. Some people experience symptoms for 6 months or longer.\n\nNormal between-cigarettes discontinuation, in unrestricted smokers, causes mild but measurable nicotine withdrawal symptoms. These include mildly worse mood, stress, anxiety, cognition, and sleep, all of which briefly return to normal with the next cigarette. Smokers have worse mood than they would have if they were not nicotine-dependent; they experience normal moods only immediately after smoking.\n\nThere is no clear evidence of cognitive effects of nicotine in nonabstinent smokers or healthy older nonsmokers, but in dependent smokers, withdrawal causes worse cognition, and smoking during withdrawal returns cognitive abilities to pre-withdrawal levels. The temporarily increased cognitive levels of smokers after inhaling smoke are offset by periods of cognitive decline during nicotine withdrawal. Therefore, the overall daily cognitive levels of smokers and non-smokers are roughly similar.\n\nNicotine activates the mesolimbic pathway and induces long-term ΔFosB expression in the nucleus accumbens when inhaled or injected at sufficiently high doses, but not necessarily when ingested. Consequently, repeated daily exposure (possibly excluding oral route) to nicotine can result in accumbal ΔFosB overexpression, in turn causing nicotine addiction.\n\nNicotine's mood-altering effects are different by report: in particular it is both a stimulant and a relaxant. First causing a release of glucose from the liver and epinephrine (adrenaline) from the adrenal medulla, it causes stimulation. Users report feelings of relaxation, sharpness, calmness, and alertness.\n\nWhen a cigarette is smoked, nicotine-rich blood passes from the lungs to the brain within seven seconds and immediately stimulates nicotinic acetylcholine receptors; this indirectly promotes the release of many chemical messengers such as acetylcholine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, arginine vasopressin, serotonin, dopamine, and beta-endorphin in parts of the brain. Nicotine also increases the sensitivity of the brain's reward system to rewarding stimuli. An average cigarette yields about 2 mg of absorbed nicotine. Studies suggest that when smokers wish to achieve a stimulating effect, they take short quick puffs, which produce a low level of blood nicotine.\n\nNicotine is unusual in comparison to most drugs, as its profile changes from stimulant to sedative with increasing dosages, a phenomenon known as \"Nesbitt's paradox\" after the doctor who first described it in 1969. At very high doses it dampens neuronal activity. Nicotine induces both behavioral stimulation and anxiety in animals.\n\nNicotine acts as a receptor agonist at most nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), except at two nicotinic receptor subunits (nAChRα9 and nAChRα10) where it acts as a receptor antagonist.\n\nBy binding to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the brain, nicotine elicits its psychoactive effects and increases the levels of several neurotransmitters in various brain structures – acting as a sort of \"volume control.\" Nicotine has a higher affinity for nicotinic receptors in the brain than those in skeletal muscle, though at toxic doses it can induce contractions and respiratory paralysis. Nicotine's selectivity is thought to be due to a particular amino acid difference on these receptor subtypes.\n\nNicotine activates nicotinic receptors (particularly α4β2 nicotinic receptors) on neurons that innervate the ventral tegmental area and within the mesolimbic pathway where it appears to cause the release of dopamine. This nicotine-induced dopamine release occurs at least partially through activation of the cholinergic–dopaminergic reward link in the ventral tegmental area. Nicotine also appears to induce the release of endogenous opioids that activate opioid pathways in the reward system, since naltrexone – an opioid receptor antagonist – blocks nicotine self-administration. These actions are largely responsible for the strongly reinforcing effects of nicotine, which often occur in the absence of euphoria; however, mild euphoria from nicotine use can occur in some individuals. Chronic nicotine use inhibits class I and II histone deacetylases in the striatum, where this effect plays a role in nicotine addiction.\n\nNicotine also activates the sympathetic nervous system, acting via splanchnic nerves to the adrenal medulla, stimulating the release of epinephrine. Acetylcholine released by preganglionic sympathetic fibers of these nerves acts on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, causing the release of epinephrine (and norepinephrine) into the bloodstream.\n\nBy binding to ganglion type nicotinic receptors in the adrenal medulla, nicotine increases flow of adrenaline (epinephrine), a stimulating hormone and neurotransmitter. By binding to the receptors, it causes cell depolarization and an influx of calcium through voltage-gated calcium channels. Calcium triggers the exocytosis of chromaffin granules and thus the release of epinephrine (and norepinephrine) into the bloodstream. The release of epinephrine (adrenaline) causes an increase in heart rate, blood pressure and respiration, as well as higher blood glucose levels.\n\nAs nicotine enters the body, it is distributed quickly through the bloodstream and crosses the blood–brain barrier reaching the brain within 10–20 seconds after inhalation. The elimination half-life of nicotine in the body is around two hours.\n\nThe amount of nicotine absorbed by the body from smoking can depend on many factors, including the types of tobacco, whether the smoke is inhaled, and whether a filter is used. However, it has been found that the nicotine yield of individual products has only a small effect (4.4%) on the blood concentration of nicotine, suggesting \"the assumed health advantage of switching to lower-tar and lower-nicotine cigarettes may be largely offset by the tendency of smokers to compensate by increasing inhalation\".\n\nNicotine has a half-life of 1–2 hours. Cotinine is an active metabolite of nicotine that remains in the blood with a half-life of 18–20 hours, making it easier to analyze.\n\nNicotine is metabolized in the liver by cytochrome P450 enzymes (mostly CYP2A6, and also by CYP2B6) and FMO3, which selectively metabolizes (\"S\")-nicotine. A major metabolite is cotinine. Other primary metabolites include nicotine \"N\"'-oxide, nornicotine, nicotine isomethonium ion, 2-hydroxynicotine and nicotine glucuronide. Under some conditions, other substances may be formed such as myosmine.\n\nGlucuronidation and oxidative metabolism of nicotine to cotinine are both inhibited by menthol, an additive to mentholated cigarettes, thus increasing the half-life of nicotine \"in vivo\".\n\nNicotine is a hygroscopic, colorless to yellow-brown, oily liquid, that is readily soluble in alcohol, ether or light petroleum. It is miscible with water in its base form between 60 °C and 210 °C. As a nitrogenous base, nicotine forms salts with acids that are usually solid and water-soluble. Its flash point is 95 °C and its auto-ignition temperature is 244 °C.\n\nNicotine is readily volatile (vapor pressure 5.5 ㎩ at 25 ℃) and dibasic (K=1×10⁻⁶, K=1×10⁻¹¹).\n\nNicotine is optically active, having two enantiomeric forms. The naturally occurring form of nicotine is levorotatory with a specific rotation of [α]=–166.4° ((−)-nicotine). The dextrorotatory form, (+)-nicotine is physiologically less active than (−)-nicotine. (−)-nicotine is more toxic than (+)-nicotine. The salts of (+)-nicotine are usually dextrorotatory. The hydrochloride and sulphate salts become optically inactive if heated in a closed vessel above 180 °C.\n\nOn exposure to ultraviolet light or various oxidizing agents, nicotine is converted to nicotine oxide, nicotinic acid (vitamin B3), and methylamine.\n\nNicotine is a natural product of tobacco, occurring in the leaves in a range of 0.5 to 7.5% depending on variety. Nicotine also naturally occurs in smaller amounts in plants from the family Solanaceae (such as potatoes, tomatoes, eggplant, and peppers). The amounts of nicotine of tomato varieties lowered substantially as the fruits ripened. Nicotine content in tea leaves is greatly inconsistent and in some cases considerably greater than in the Solanaceae fruits. A 1999 report found \"In some papers it is suggested that the contribution of dietary nicotine intake is significant when compared with exposure to ETS [environmental tobacco smoke] or by active smoking of small numbers of cigarettes. Others consider the dietary intake to be negligible unless inordinately large amounts of specific vegetables are consumed.\" The amount of nicotine eaten per day is roughly around 1.4 and 2.25 µg/day at the 95th percentile. These numbers may be low due to insufficient food intake data. Since the amounts of nicotine from the Solanum family including potato, tomato, eggplant, and from the Capsicum family vary in the parts per billion, they are tough to measure.\n\nThe biosynthetic pathway of nicotine involves a coupling reaction between the two cyclic structures that compose nicotine. Metabolic studies show that the pyridine ring of nicotine is derived from niacin (nicotinic acid) while the pyrrolidone is derived from \"N\"-methyl-Δ-pyrrollidium cation. Biosynthesis of the two component structures proceeds via two independent syntheses, the NAD pathway for niacin and the tropane pathway for \"N\"-methyl-Δ-pyrrollidium cation.\n\nThe NAD pathway in the genus \"Nicotiana\" begins with the oxidation of aspartic acid into α-imino succinate by aspartate oxidase (AO). This is followed by a condensation with glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate and a cyclization catalyzed by quinolinate synthase (QS) to give quinolinic acid. Quinolinic acid then reacts with phosphoriboxyl pyrophosphate catalyzed by quinolinic acid phosphoribosyl transferase (QPT) to form niacin mononucleotide (NaMN). The reaction now proceeds via the NAD salvage cycle to produce niacin via the conversion of nicotinamide by the enzyme nicotinamidase.\n\nThe \"N\"-methyl-Δ-pyrrollidium cation used in the synthesis of nicotine is an intermediate in the synthesis of tropane-derived alkaloids. Biosynthesis begins with decarboxylation of ornithine by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) to produce putrescine. Putrescine is then converted into \"N\"-methyl putrescine via methylation by SAM catalyzed by putrescine \"N\"-methyltransferase (PMT). \"N\"-methylputrescine then undergoes deamination into 4-methylaminobutanal by the \"N\"-methylputrescine oxidase (MPO) enzyme, 4-methylaminobutanal then spontaneously cyclize into \"N\"-methyl-Δ-pyrrollidium cation.\n\nThe final step in the synthesis of nicotine is the coupling between \"N\"-methyl-Δ-pyrrollidium cation and niacin. Although studies conclude some form of coupling between the two component structures, the definite process and mechanism remains undetermined. The current agreed theory involves the conversion of niacin into 2,5-dihydropyridine through 3,6-dihydronicotinic acid. The 2,5-dihydropyridine intermediate would then react with \"N\"-methyl-Δ-pyrrollidium cation to form enantiomerically pure (−)-nicotine.\n\nNicotine can be quantified in blood, plasma, or urine to confirm a diagnosis of poisoning or to facilitate a medicolegal death investigation. Urinary or salivary cotinine concentrations are frequently measured for the purposes of pre-employment and health insurance medical screening programs. Careful interpretation of results is important, since passive exposure to cigarette smoke can result in significant accumulation of nicotine, followed by the appearance of its metabolites in various body fluids. Nicotine use is not regulated in competitive sports programs.\n\nNicotine is named after the tobacco plant \"Nicotiana tabacum,\" which in turn is named after the French ambassador in Portugal, Jean Nicot de Villemain, who sent tobacco and seeds to Paris in 1560, presented to the French King, and who promoted their medicinal use. Smoking was believed to protect against illness, particularly the plague.\n\nTobacco was introduced to Europe in 1559, and by the late 17th century, it was used not only for smoking but also as an insecticide. After World War II, over 2,500 tons of nicotine insecticide were used worldwide, but by the 1980s the use of nicotine insecticide had declined below 200 tons. This was due to the availability of other insecticides that are cheaper and less harmful to mammals.\n\nCurrently, nicotine, even in the form of tobacco dust, is prohibited as a pesticide for organic farming in the United States.\n\nIn 2008, the EPA received a request, from the registrant, to cancel the registration of the last nicotine pesticide registered in the United States. This request was granted, and since 1 January 2014, this pesticide has not been available for sale.\n\nUS FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb, M.D., announced on 28 July 2017 a comprehensive regulatory plan for tobacco and nicotine regulation that will serve as a multi-year roadmap to better protect kids and significantly reduce tobacco-related disease and death, including pursuing lowering nicotine in regular cigarettes to a minimally or non-addictive level. Nicotine is one of the most rigorously studied drugs.\n\nNicotine was originally isolated from the tobacco plant in 1828 by chemists Wilhelm Heinrich Posselt and Karl Ludwig Reimann from Germany, who believed it was a poison. Its chemical empirical formula was described by Melsens in 1843, its structure was discovered by Adolf Pinner and Richard Wolffenstein in 1893, and it was first synthesized by Amé Pictet and A. Rotschy in 1904.\n\nThe nicotine content of popular American-brand cigarettes has increased over time, and one study found that there was an average increase of 1.78% per year between the years of 1998 and 2005.\n\nWhile acute/initial nicotine intake causes activation of nicotine receptors, chronic low doses of nicotine use leads to desensitisation of nicotine receptors (due to the development of tolerance) and results in an antidepressant effect, with early research showing low dose nicotine patches could be an effective treatment of major depressive disorder in non-smokers. However, the original research concluded that: \"Nicotine patches produced short-term improvement of depression with minor side effects. Because of nicotine's high risk to health, nicotine patches are not recommended for clinical use in depression.\"\n\nThough tobacco smoking is associated with an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease, there is evidence that nicotine itself has the potential to prevent and treat Alzheimer's disease.\n\nResearch into nicotine's most predominant metabolite, cotinine, suggests that some of nicotine's psychoactive effects are mediated by cotinine.\n\nLittle research is available in humans but animal research suggests there is potential benefit from nicotine in Parkinson's disease. In humans, there is epidemiologic evidence for a reduced risk of Parkinson's associated with tobacco use, consumption of Solanaceae vegetables in general, and consumption of peppers in particular.\n\n"}
{"id": "33964293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33964293", "title": "Nursery World", "text": "Nursery World\n\nNursery World is a fortnightly magazine for early years education and childcare professionals in the United Kingdom. It was first published in 1925 and is now published in print form and online. The editor is Liz Roberts. In 2007, Haymarket Media Group acquired \"Nursery World\" from TSL Education. In April 2013, Haymarket sold \"Nursery World\" to Mark Allen Group.\n\nIt organises an annual show, the \"Nursery World\" Show, which is co-sponsored by 4Children, the National Children's Bureau, the Professional Association for Childcare and Early Years and the Pre-school Learning Alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "20517235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20517235", "title": "Pneumatic school", "text": "Pneumatic school\n\nThe Pneumatic school of medicine (\"Pneumatics\", or \"Pneumatici\", ) was an ancient school of medicine in ancient Greece and Rome. They were founded in Rome by Athenaeus of Cilicia, in the 1st century AD.\n\nThe Roman era was a time when the Methodic school had enjoyed its greatest reputation, from which the Pneumatic school differed principally in that, instead of the mixture of primitive atoms, they adopted an active principle of immaterial nature, \"pneuma\", or spirit. This principle was the cause of health and disease. It is from Galen that we learn the doctrines of the founder of the Pneumatic school.\n\nPlato and Aristotle had already laid the foundations of the doctrine of \"pneuma\", for which, Aristotle was the first to describe the ways in which the \"pneuma\" is introduced into the body and the sanguineous system. The Stoics developed the theory even more and applied it to the functions of the body. Erasistratus and his successors had made the \"pneuma\" act a great part in health and disease. Thus, the theory of the \"pneuma\" was not a new one. The Methodic school, however, appears to have done away with much of the theory. The Pneumatic school, in choosing to oppose the Methodic school, adopted a firmly established principle, and chose the \"pneuma\" principle of the Stoics.\n\nThey thought that logic was indispensable to medicine, and Galen tells us that the Pneumatic school would rather have betrayed their country than renounce their opinions. Athenaeus had also adopted much of the doctrines of the Peripatetics, and besides the doctrine of the \"pneuma\", he developed the theory of the elements much more than the Methodic school had done. He recognised in the four elements the positive qualities (\"poiotes\") of the animal body; but he often regarded them as real substances, and gave to the whole of them the name of \"Nature of Man\". Although the Pneumatici attributed the majority of diseases to the \"pneuma\", they nevertheless paid attention to the mixture of the elements. The union of heat and moisture was the most suitable for the preservation of health. Heat and dryness give rise to acute diseases, cold and moisture produce phlegmatic affections, cold and dryness give rise to melancholy. Everything dries up and becomes cold at the approach of death.\n\n"}
{"id": "28357356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28357356", "title": "Red Crescent Society of the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Red Crescent Society of the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe Red Crescent Society of the United Arab Emirates is the United Arab Emirates (UAE) affiliate of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. The authority was founded in 1983 with support of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan. Its main objectives are to carry out Red Cross operations on a systematic basis throughout the UAE.\n\n"}
{"id": "40651261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40651261", "title": "Reza Dana", "text": "Reza Dana\n\nReza Dana (M.D., M.Sc., MPH) is an American ophthalmologist and immunologist.\n\nDana had attended Tehran International School but graduated with the Summa Cum Laude degree which he obtained through St. Paul’s School in New Hampshire. Later on, he continued his education on ophthalmology in Johns Hopkins University and Illinois Eye and Ear Infirmary in Chicago. Reza holds Master's degree in management from Harvard University of which he became a faculty member later on. When he came to Philadelphia he became a fellow at the Wills Eye Hospital and later had additional fellowship on a subject of immunology and transplant rejection, at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary and the Schepens Eye Research Institute. Currently he works as a senior editor of \"Encyclopedia of the Eye\" and is the main editor of such journals as \"Cornea\", the \"Ocular Surface\", and \"Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science\" in which he published more than 200 articles. He is also a member of both American Academy of Ophthalmology faculty and Committee on Immunology at Harvard Medical School. Dana is a professor of ophthalmology at the same place and have received numerous awards for his research such as \"William and Mary Greve Special Scholar Award\", \"Physician-Scientist Merit Award\", and Cogan Award. In 2012 Nicolas Bazan awarded him with the Chancellor's Award on behalf of the Louisiana State University.\n"}
{"id": "15456042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15456042", "title": "Russian Cross", "text": "Russian Cross\n\nThe Russian Cross is the name of a demographic trend that occurred in Russia. Starting in 1988, birth rates among native Russians (as well as most other ethnic groups of the European part of the former Soviet Union) were declining, while from 1991 the death rates started climbing. \n\nIn 1992, the number of deaths exceeded the number of births, and continued to do so to a greater or lesser degree until 2013. When this trend is plotted on a line graph starting from the mid-1980s, the lines cross at 1992, hence the name.\n\nScientists have tried to connect the causative link between the two trends through the catastrophic growth of alcohol consumption that took place in Russia since the end of the Soviet Union, and the subsequent deregulation of the Russia alcohol market.\n\nIt has been demonstrated that this is connected with the fact that post-Soviet Russia experiences one of the world's highest prevalence of alcohol-related problems, which contributes to high mortality rates in this region. Reduction in alcohol-related problems in Russia could have strong effects on mortality decline. Andrey Korotayev and Daria Khaltourina have analyzed the plausibility of application of general principles of alcohol policy to the Russian Federation.\n\nThey have shown that alcohol policy approaches could be implemented in the same ways as they have been in other countries. In addition, according to Korotayev, there should be special attention to decreasing distilled spirits consumption, illegal alcohol production, nonbeverage alcohol consumption, and enforcement of current governmental regulations.\n\nOther factors explaining the Russian Cross include:\n\n\nThe Russian Cross is not confined to Russia, as it has also happened in other countries, most commonly with the fall of the Soviet Union (as in Russia): Belarus, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Serbia, and Ukraine. Also, Germany fell into a negative natural increase in the 1970s, Hungary in the 1980s, and Japan in the 2000s. (Source: the Wikipedia articles for each country's demographics include vital statistics from which crosses may be ascertained.) This is often worsened by high emigration rates wherein the countries' young populations leave for other countries with stronger economies, such as from Eastern to Western Europe due to free movement within the European Union, or more recently in Puerto Rico, whose residents have free access to the United States mainland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28845", "title": "Safe sex", "text": "Safe sex\n\nSafe sex is sexual activity using methods or devices (such as condoms) to reduce the risk of transmitting or acquiring sexually transmitted infections (STIs), especially HIV. \"Safe sex\" is also sometimes referred to as safer sex or protected sex to indicate that some safe sex practices do not completely eliminate STI risks. It is also sometimes used to describe methods aimed at preventing pregnancy.\n\nThe concept of safe sex emerged in the 1980s as a response to the global AIDS epidemic. Promoting safe sex is now one of the aims of sex education and STI prevention, especially reducing new HIV infections. Safe sex is regarded as a harm reduction strategy aimed at reducing risks of STI transmission. \n\nAlthough some safe sex practices (like condoms) can also be used as birth control (contraception), most forms of contraception do not protect against STIs. Likewise, some safe sex practices, like partner selection and low-risk sex behavior, may not be effective forms of contraception.\n\nAlthough strategies for avoiding STIs like syphilis and gonorrhea have existed for centuries and the term 'safe sex' existed in English as early as the 1930s, the use of the term to refer to STI-risk reduction dates to the mid-1980s in the United States. It emerged in response to the HIV/AIDS crisis.\n\nA year before the HIV virus was isolated and named, the San Francisco chapter of the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence published a small pamphlet titled \"Play Fair!\" out of concern over widespread STIs among the city's gay male population. It specifically named illnesses (Kaposi's sarcoma and pneumocystis pneumonia) that would later be understood as symptoms of advanced HIV disease (or AIDS). The pamphlet advocated a range of safe-sex practices, including abstinence, condoms, personal hygiene, use of personal lubricants, and STI testing/treatment. It took a casual, sex-positive approach while also emphasizing personal and social responsibility. In May 1983--the same month HIV was isolated and named in France--the New York City-based HIV/AIDS activists Richard Berkowitz and Michael Callen published similar advice in their booklet, \"\". Neither publication used the term \"safe sex\" but both included recommendations that are now standard advice for reducing STI (including HIV) risks. \n\nSafe sex as a form of STI risk reduction appeared in journalism as early as 1984, in the British publication 'The Intelligencer': \"\"The goal is to reach about 50 million people with messages about safe sex and AIDS education.\"\n\nAlthough \"safe sex\" is used by individuals to refer to protection against both pregnancy and HIV/AIDS or other STI transmissions, the term was born in response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. It is believed that the term \"safe sex\" was used in the professional literature in 1984, in the content of a paper on the psychological effect that HIV/AIDS may have on homosexual men. The term was related with the need to develop educational programs for the group considered at risk, homosexual men. \n\nA year later, the same term appeared in an article in \"The New York Times.\" This article emphasized that most specialists advised their AIDS patients to practice safe sex. The concept included limiting the number of sexual partners, using prophylactics, avoiding bodily fluid exchange, and resisting the use of drugs that reduced inhibitions for high-risk sexual behavior. Moreover, in 1985, the first safe sex guidelines were established by the 'Coalition for Sexual Responsibilities'. According to these guidelines, safe sex was practiced by using condoms also when engaging in anal or oral sex.\n\nAlthough the term \"safe sex\" was primarily used in reference to the sexual activity of homosexual men, in 1986 the concept was spread to the general population. Various programs were developed with the aim of promoting safe sex practices among college students. These programs were focused on promoting the use of the condom, a better knowledge about the partner's sexual history and limiting the number of sexual partners. The first book on this subject appeared in the same year. The book was entitled \"Safe Sex in the Age of AIDS\", it had 88 pages and it described both positive and negative approaches to sexual life. Sexual behavior could be either safe (kissing, hugging, massage, body-to-body rubbing, mutual masturbation, exhibitionism, phone sex, and use of separate sex toys); possibly safe (use of condoms); and unsafe.\n\nIn 1997, specialists in this matter promoted the use of condoms as the most accessible safe sex method (besides abstinence) and they called for TV commercials featuring condoms. During the same year, the Catholic Church in the United States issued their own \"safer sex\" guidelines on which condoms were listed, though two years later the Vatican urged chastity and heterosexual marriage, attacking the American Catholic bishops' guidelines.\n\nA study carried out in 2006 by Californian specialists showed that the most common definitions of safe sex are condom use (68% of the interviewed subjects), abstinence (31.1% of the interviewed subjects), monogamy (28.4% of the interviewed subjects) and safe partner (18.7% of the interviewed subjects).\n\nThe term \"safer sex\" in Canada and the United States has gained greater use by health workers, reflecting that risk of transmission of sexually transmitted infections in various sexual activities is a continuum. The term \"safe sex\" is still in common use in the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand. \n\n\"Safer sex\" is thought to be a more aggressive term which may make it more obvious to individuals that any type of sexual activity carries a certain degree of risk.\n\nThe term \"safe love\" has also been used, notably by the French Sidaction in the promotion of men's underpants incorporating a condom pocket and including the red ribbon symbol in the design, which were sold to support the charity.\n\nA range of safe-sex practices are commonly recommended by sexual health educators and public health agencies. Many of these practices can reduce (but not completely eliminate risk of transmitting or acquiring STIs.\n\nSexual activities, such as phone sex, cybersex, and sexting, that do not include direct contact with the skin or bodily fluids of sexual partners, carry no STI risks and, thus, are forms of safe sex.\n\nA range of sex acts called \"non-penetrative sex\" or \"outercourse\" can significantly reduce STI risks. Non-penetrative sex includes practices such as kissing, mutual masturbation, rubbing or stroking. According to the Health Department of Western Australia, this sexual practice may prevent pregnancy and most STIs. However, non-penetrative sex may not protect against infections that can be transmitted via skin-to-skin contact, such as herpes and human papilloma virus. Mutual or partnered masturbation carries some STI risk, especially if there is skin contact or shared bodily fluids with sexual partners, although the risks are significantly lower than many other sexual activities.\n\nBarriers, such as condoms, dental dams, and medical gloves can prevent contact with body fluids (such as blood, vaginal fluid, semen, rectal mucus), and other means of transmitting STIs (like skin, hair and shared objects) during sexual activity.\n\nOil-based lubrication can break down the structure of latex condoms, dental dams or gloves, reducing their effectiveness for STI protection.\n\nWhile use of external condoms can reduce STI risks during sexual activity, they are not 100% effective. One study has suggested condoms might reduce HIV transmission by 85% to 95%; effectiveness beyond 95% was deemed unlikely because of slippage, breakage, and incorrect use. It also said, \"In practice, inconsistent use may reduce the overall effectiveness of condoms to as low as 60–70%\".\n\nPre-exposure prophylaxis (often abbreviated as \"PrEP\") is the use of prescription drugs by those who do not have HIV to prevent HIV infection. PrEP drugs are taken \"prior\" to HIV exposure to prevent the transmission of the virus, usually between sexual partners. PrEP drugs do not prevent other STI infections or pregnancy.\n\nAs of 2018, the most-widely approved form of \"PrEP\" combines two drugs (tenofovir and emtricitabine) in one pill. That drug combination is sold under the brand name Truvada by Gilead Sciences. It is also sold in generic formulations worldwide. Other drugs are also being studied for use as PrEP. \n\nDifferent countries have approved different protocols for using the tenofovir/emtricitabine-combination drug as \"PrEP\". That two-drug combination has been shown to prevent HIV infection in different populations when taken daily, intermittently, and on demand. Numerous studies have found the tenofovir/emtricitabine combination to be over 90% effective at preventing HIV transmission between sexual partners. \n\nTreatment as Prevention (often abbreviated as \"TasP\") is the practice of testing for and treating HIV infection as a way to prevent further spread of the virus. Those having knowledge of their HIV-positive status can use safe-sex practices to protect themselves and their partners (such as using condoms, sero-sorting partners, or choosing less-risky sexual activities). And, because HIV-positive people with durably suppressed or undetectable amounts of HIV in their blood \"cannot transmit HIV to sexual partners\", sexual activity with HIV-positive partners on effective treatment is a form of safe sex (to prevent HIV infection). This fact has given rise to the concept of \"U=U\" (\"Undetectable = Untransmittable\"). \n\nOther methods proven effective at reducing STI risks during sexual activity are:\n\nMost methods of contraception are not effective at preventing the spread of STIs. This includes birth control pills, vasectomy, tubal ligation, periodic abstinence, IUDs and many non-barrier methods of pregnancy prevention. However, condoms are highly effective for birth control and STI prevention.\n\nThe spermicide Nonoxynol-9 has been claimed to reduce the likelihood of STI transmission. However, a technical report by the World Health Organization has shown that Nonoxynol-9 is an irritant and can produce tiny tears in mucous membranes, which may increase the risk of transmission by offering pathogens more easy points of entry into the system. They reported that Nonoxynol-9 lubricant do not have enough spermicide to increase contraceptive effectiveness cautioned they should not be promoted.\n\nThe use of a diaphragm or contraceptive sponge provides some women with better protection against certain sexually transmitted diseases, but they are not effective for all STIs.\n\nHormonal methods of preventing pregnancy (such as oral contraceptives [i.e. 'The pill'], depoprogesterone, hormonal IUDs, the vaginal ring, and the patch) offer no protection against STIs. The copper intrauterine device and the hormonal intrauterine device provide an up to 99% protection against pregnancies but no protection against STIs. Women with copper intrauterine device \"may\" be subject to greater risk of infection from bacterial infectious such as gonorrhea or chlamydia, although this is debated.\n\nCoitus interruptus (or \"pulling out\"), in which the penis is removed from the vagina, anus, or mouth before ejaculation, may reduce transmission of STIs but still carries significant risk. This is because pre-ejaculate, a fluid that oozes from the penile urethra before ejaculation, may contain STI pathogens. Additionally, the microbes responsible for some diseases, including genital warts and syphilis, can be transmitted through skin-to-skin or mucous membrane contact.\n\nUnprotected anal penetration is considered a high-risk sexual activity because the thin tissues of the anus and rectum can be easily damaged. Slight injuries can allow the passage of bacteria and viruses, including HIV. This includes penetration of the anus by fingers, hands, or sex toys such as dildos. Also, condoms may be more likely to break during anal sex than during vaginal sex, increasing the risk of STI transmission.\n\nThe main risk which individuals are exposed to when performing anal sex is the transmission of HIV. Other possible infections include Hepatitis A, B and C; intestinal parasite infections like \"Giardia\"; and bacterial infections such as \"Escherichia coli.\"\n\nAnal sex should be avoided by couples in which one of the partners has been diagnosed with an STI until the treatment has proven to be effective.\n\nIn order to make anal sex safer, the couple must ensure that the anal area is clean and the bowel empty and the partner on whom anal penetration occurs should be able to relax. Regardless of whether anal penetration occurs by using a finger or the penis, the condom is the best barrier method to prevent transmission of STI. Enemas should be not be used as they can increase the risk of HIV infection and lymphogranuloma venereum proctitis.\n\nSince the rectum can be easily damaged, the use of lubricants is highly recommended even when penetration occurs by using the finger. Especially for beginners, using a condom on the finger is both a protection measure against STI and a lubricant source. Most condoms are lubricated and they allow less painful and easier penetration. Oil-based lubricants damage latex and should not be used with condoms; water-based and silicone-based lubricants are available instead. Non-latex condoms are available for people who are allergic to latex made out of polyurethane or polyisoprene. Polyurethane condoms can safely be used with oil-based lubricant. The \"female condom\" may also be used effectively by the anal receiving partner.\n\nAnal stimulation with a sex toy requires similar safety measures to anal penetration with a penis, in this case using a condom on the sex toy in a similar way.\n\nIt is important that the man washes and cleans his penis after anal intercourse if he intends to penetrate the vagina. Bacteria from the rectum are easily transferred to the vagina, which may cause vaginal and urinary tract infections.\n\nWhen anal-oral contact occurs, protection is required since this is a risky sexual behavior in which illnesses as Hepatitis A or STIs can be easily transmitted, as well as enteric infections. The dental dam or the plastic wrap are effective protection means whenever anilingus is performed.\n\nPutting a condom on a sex toy provides better sexual hygiene and can help to prevent transmission of infections if the sex toy is shared, provided the condom is replaced when used by a different partner. Some sex toys are made of porous materials, and pores retain viruses and bacteria, which makes it necessary to clean sex toys thoroughly, preferably with use of cleaners specifically for sex toys. Glass is non-porous and medical grade glass sex toys more easily sterilized between uses.\n\nIn cases in which one of the partners is treated for an STI, it is recommended that the couple not use sex toys until the treatment has proved to be effective.\n\nAll sex toys have to be properly cleaned after use. The way in which a sex toy is cleaned varies on the type of material it is made of. Some sex toys can be boiled or cleaned in a dishwasher. Most of the sex toys come with advice on the best way to clean and store them and these instructions should be carefully followed. A sex toy should be cleaned not only when it is shared with other individuals but also when it is used on different parts of the body (such as mouth, vagina or anus).\n\nA sex toy should regularly be checked for scratches or breaks that can be breeding ground for bacteria. It is best if the damaged sex toy is replaced by a new undamaged one. Even more hygiene protection should be considered by pregnant women when using sex toys. Sharing any type of sex toy that may draw blood, like whips or needles, is not recommended, and is not safe.\n\nWhen using sex toys in the anus, sex toys \"...can easily get lost\" as \"rectal muscles contract and can suck an object up and up, potentially obstructing the colon\"; to prevent this serious problem, sex toy users are advised to use sex \"...toys with a flared base or a string\".\n\nSexual abstinence reduces STIs and pregnancy risks associated with sexual contact, but STIs may also be transmitted through non-sexual means, or by rape. HIV may be transmitted through contaminated needles used in tattooing, body piercing, or injections. Medical or dental procedures using contaminated instruments can also spread HIV, while some health-care workers have acquired HIV through occupational exposure to accidental injuries with needles. Evidence does not support the use of abstinence-only sex education. Abstinence-only sex education programs have been found to be ineffective in decreasing rates of HIV infection in the developed world and unplanned pregnancy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35759428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35759428", "title": "Seirogan", "text": "Seirogan\n\nThe name is nominally a registered trademark of based in Suita, Osaka which is still the major market-share holder, but the enforceability of the tradename has been voided by the Supreme Court of Japan, which ruled \"seirogan\" to be a common generic name. The ruling only recognizes proprietary use of the bugle logo by Taiko, but not protection of its characteristic packaging. As a result, dozens of extremely similar packaged drugs are being manufactured and sold in the market.\n\nSeirogan is a general-use medicine, mainly to treat the gastro-intestinal system. It contains wood-tar creosote () as its main active ingredient. That ingredient in the West may otherwise go by such names as \"wood creosote\", \"beechwood creosote\", or \"liquid pitch oil\", and should be distinguished from industrial \"coal-tar creosote\". To emphasize the distinction, wood creosote in Japan is sometimes called by such names as and minor variants thereof.\n\nThe wood creosote is blended with two or more recognized in for their antiseptic and other effects, but the additional ingredients used are different among manufacturers (See under #Chemical composition for a sampling of formulas). Some quarters (perhaps kanpō medicine practitioners and others) insist however that \"Seirogan is not strictly speaking kanpō medicine\", and this point was emphatically printed in a retraction by a certain consumer-watch type book that criticized seirogan but had confused wood creosote with the industrial type (See #accusation controversy).\n\nIn the classic form, it is a dark brown round pill, but in order to mask its distinctive mediciny odor and bitterness, sugar-coated tablet forms have become available as well.\n\nThe Seirogan (正露丸) name was filed for trademark registration by Taiko Pharmaceutical in 1954, but approximately thirty competitors such as objected, leading to a lengthy battle, petitioning the Patent Office, then later litigating in court. The Tokyo District Court rejected Taiko's claim to proprietary use of the Seirogan name, and the Supreme Court of Japan upheld that decision in 1974. The Supreme Court delivered the opinion that the name seirogan had passed into a common noun, so that use of the Seirogan (正露丸) name by any company was valid, not answerable to the claims of this trademark, and did not constitute an infringement of any intellectually property rights thereof. The court also did not recognize Taiko Pharmaceutical's exclusive right to use the distinctive color scheme and graphic design on the packaged box (and sticker label on the pill bottle), with the exception of the product logo depicting a bugle. (Cf. #Taiko's trademark registration and Izumi's lawsuit to revoke trademark).\n\nAs a consequence, there are currently numerous Seirogan products in the market that feature logos other than the bugle but otherwise look remarkably similar: Izumi Yakuhin Kogyou (calabash logo), (triangle and bear logo, nicknamed \"Yūtan\"). The retailer/drug store chain and wholesaler also market their own brands.\n\nIn 2005, Taiko filed a lawsuit against a competitor, demanding suppression of what it considered copycat merchandise, but again lost the case in court, and the Supreme Court rejected the appeal in 2008 (Cf. #Taiko's petition for an injunction against unfair competitive practices).\nThe bugle tune being played in Taiko's commercials for the product is the ex-Japanese Imperial Army bugle call to announce mealtime, colloquially known as the . The tune used currently by the Self Defense Force is of a different melody.\n\nSeirogan is touted to be effective in the following: \nIn pre-World War II Japan, Seirogan was believed to combat tuberculosis or aid someone with a weak constitiution, and employed as a panacea (cure-all) of sorts\n\nThere are several contending theories regarding the origins of the drug, and several names crop up as its inventor.\n\nThe Japanese Imperial Army, which experienced considerable setbacks due to unclean water sources during the Sino-Japanese War at the end of the 19th century, was working on solutions to combat infectious diseases. Surgeon-major , an instructor at the Military Medical College, discovered in 1903 that creosote agent was an effective suppressant for the typhoid fever pathogen. Taiko Pharmaceutical claims the Osaka-based medicine merchant developed the a year earlier in 1902 and initiated sales, which business was eventually handed over to Taiko.\n\nThe higher echelons of the Army Medical Corps, including writer Mori Ōgai, favored the German view that beriberi, a disease that caused an even heavier death toll than typhoid, was caused by an undiscovered transmittable pathogens (in contrast, British-trained doctors in the navy correctly saw it as a nutritional disorder). Prompted by their misguided view, the army distributed vast quantities of Seirogan (with their proven antiseptic properties) among the troops to be administered daily throughout the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-5. In an army medical journal of 1901 there is mention of the pill as , but in the journals of 1904-5 appears the name . The name Seirogan was widely used as the academic term by army doctors for about a 4-year span.\n\nBut this was in the days when drug use as preventive medicine was not a widely embraced concept, and soldiers resisted swallowing this weird-smelling and unfamiliar pill, even when so instructed. The top brass decided to invoke the name of Emperor Meiji, telling the men that taking the pill was \"according to the wishes of His Imperial Majesty\". This subterfuge reportedly greatly improved the soldiers' compliance towards taking the pill, making them less prone to be forced out of action due to stomach aches or diarrhea. The army doctors were however disappointed to find that the pill did not show any of the desired combative effect towards the (non-existent) beriberi microbe. The army insisted on feeding their men pure white rice to boost morale, but that led to vitamin-deficient diet, so that one in three men serving the Russo-Japanese War were afflicted by beriberi, and 27,800 succumbed to it. Meanwhile, the Japanese navy deduced early on that beriberi was a nutritional disorder, and added breads and (wheat or wheat-rice mixture steam-cooked like rice) to their rations, so that none of their servicemen fell ill with beriberi.\n\nWhile Seirogan proved powerless against beriberi, the antidiarrheal and toothache-soothing properties of the pill were passed on, in somewhat exaggerated fashion, by repatriated war veterans. Amid the mood of victory in war, Seirogan's name became \"the cure-all that defeated Russia\" and many drug-makers rushed to manufacture the pill, which became a national medicine unique to Japan.\n\nThe reputation for the pill's effectiveness also spread within areas under Japanese control before the end of World War II, and Seirogan is said to be one of the popular items purchased by travelers from Taiwan, the People's Republic of China, and other Asian countries.\n\nThe pill ceased to be part of regular military issue supplies in 1906, but the military continued to keep itself constantly supplied for use. In 2007, it was part of the supply kit issued to the SDF during the UN Mission in Nepal.\n\nAfter the war with Russia, and again after World War II, administrative guidance was issued against the use of the kanji character as being undesirable from the standpoint of international relations. So in most cases, the written name of the pill was changed to . Taiko Pharmaceutical made the change in 1949. But one manufacturer still uses the old written form that reads \"conquer\".\n\nIn 1946, the leading manufacturer of the pill, had obtained through formal negotiation with Saichi Nakajima the right to continue selling his \"Chūyū Seirogan\" pill. Accordingly, in 1954, Taiko made a claim for the exclusive use of the \"Seirogan\" name, and filed for trademark registration.\n\nOther manufacturers of the seirogan-type pill objected to this move, led by , which had developed its own creosote formula, and had supplied the military with its seirogan throughout World War II despite supply shortages. The group petitioned the Patent Office in April 1955 to revoke the trademark. It was not until April 1960, that the Patent Office handed down its decision to maintain the registered trademark. So the group filed a suit in the Tokyo High Court, which in September 1971, ruled that \"The seirongan is recognized by the nation's populace as a common name for bowels-regulating agents that use creosote as main ingredient, and [the court hereby] rules to void the Patent Office's decision to make it a proprietary trademark\". This ruling was upheld by the Supreme Court of Japan, thus finalizing the decision in March 1974.\n\nHowever, the Seirogan registered trademark is still retained by Taiko Pharmaceutical (Trademark Registration No. 545984). It is not clear why the registered trademark remains unexpunged despite the supreme court ruling, but a trademark registration does not vanish automatically, and needs to go through a Patent Office review process. The Patent Office may have surmised that the Court's ruling effectively accomplished the purpose or remedy sought by the petitioners, obviating the need for another review. The Court's opinion made it expressly clear that the name Seirogan had passed into a common noun, which meant that the trademark privileges (proprietary rights) upon it was not protected or enforceable pursuant to Japan's Trademark Act, Article 26, Paragaraph 2.\n\nThus companies other than Taiko are allowed to sell the drug under the \"Seirogan\" name, without this constituting an infringement of trademark. Taiko's attempted litigation in 2005-8 (described) also failed to establish its proprietary rights. But the Court's opinion curiously left open a leeway, allowing for possible future reversal depending on the shift in popular convention. Seirogan is one of few pharmaceutical drugs names thus given public domain status, aspirin being another immediately called to mind.\n\nOn November 24, 2005, Taiko Pharmaceutical filed a suit against Izumi Yakuhin Kogyou in the , claiming the sales of merchandise with similar packaging constituted an act of unfair competitive practice under 2.1.1 or 2.1.2, and was an infringement of its trademark rights (docket number: Heisei 17 (wa）No. 11663). On July 27, 2006, The Osaka District Court ruled against the plaintiff saying a distinction can be made between the bugle and calabash logos. Taiko then appealed on August 7, but the Osaka High Court upheld the decision, and the Supreme Court's second rejected against hearing the case on July 4, 2008, which finalized Taiko's loss in this lawsuit.\n\nBut in the opinion read by the court contained this passage: \"Whether a certain label is a common name or not is an issue pertaining to perception by users (commercial dealers and consumers at large), so even if a label has been regarded as a common name within a certain period, it may later come to be perceived as denoting a specific product as a matter of the ongoing real situation of its commerce, and it is not impossible for it to regain its (i.e., manufacturer specifying) purpose\".\n\nThe primary active ingredient used in seirogan is wood-tar creosote. This was listed merely as \"creosote\" in the first edition of the , a Ministry of Health issued guidebook, and remained so for a time, until it was listed more specifically as in the fifteenth revised first supplement dated 2007, making this the official name. In addition, \"a long-term safety study in rats documented a lack of oncogenicity for wood creosote\" The second supplement then defined the coal-derivative as a separate commodity (containing carcinogenic substances such as Benzo(a)pyrene, a Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon). The wood-tar creosote is commonly called \"Nikkyoku creosote\" (i.e. Japanese pharmacopoeial creosote) as a means to distinguish from potentially harmful industrial creosote.\n\nThese recent naming conventions were prompted by a controversy set off by a consumer alert booklet, (pub. 1999) that anthologized a series run in the magazine \"\". The booklet accused \"seirogan\" of its dangers, based on the mistaken notion that the wood-tar creosote and the industrial creosote oil were identical commodities.\n\n"}
{"id": "15339728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15339728", "title": "Southern Cross Healthcare Group (New Zealand)", "text": "Southern Cross Healthcare Group (New Zealand)\n\nSouthern Cross Healthcare Group, a collection of independent, health-oriented businesses in New Zealand, operates on not-for-profit principles and is New Zealand’s largest non-public health care organisation. The Group’s businesses include health insurance, private hospitals, travel insurance and pet insurance. The Group encompasses the Southern Cross Medical Care Society and the Southern Cross Health Trust and their respective subsidiaries.\n\nAccording to Peter A. Smith’s \"The Private Prescription\", which chronicles the history of Southern Cross, the group’s origins can be traced back to the 1950s when the New Zealand private healthcare sector became concerned that the government contribution towards hospital costs of those opting for private care was not sufficient.\n\nThe President of the New Zealand Private Hospitals’ Association, Dr Jefcoate Harbutt, began to make “serious inquiries about the formation of a New Zealand health insurance organisation”. Dr Harbutt, along with Auckland chartered accountant Don Carnachan and a group of Auckland surgeons led by Dr Warwick Macky, set about establishing the organisation that would eventually become Southern Cross Medical Care Society, which was officially founded in May 1961.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, Southern Cross’ growth was modest, but during 1970s it grew rapidly, putting pressure on private hospitals for more beds, theatre facilities and improved equipment and care. The Society was often approached by private hospitals for loans or redevelopment projects, which prompted the directors to think about whether the Society should be in the private hospitals business or establish an arms-length entity.\n\nIn 1977 the directors decided to set up a separate Charitable Trust capable of managing and operating hospitals, which became the Southern Cross Hospital Trust (later renamed Southern Cross Health Trust).\n\nThe Southern Cross Medical Care Society, trading as Southern Cross Health Society, is a Friendly Society and New Zealand’s largest health insurer. The Health Society had 850,000 members as at 30 June 2017, according to its 2017 annual report. This represented a 62% market share and more than 17% of New Zealand’s population. The Health Society funded more than NZ$830m of healthcare services in the year to 30 June 2017, including 240, 000 elective surgeries, or 73% of the country’s health insurance claims. In the 2017 financial year, for every $1 of premium income, 90 cents was returned to members in claims for healthcare treatment. The Health Society also offers life insurance and corporate wellness programmes.\n\nTo better manage the impact of rising claims on the premiums members pay and make the claims process more seamless for members, the Health Society launched the Affiliated Provider (AP) programme in 1998. It contracts surgeons, specialists and facilities to provide members with certain procedures at agreed prices. The Society had more than 1850 Affiliated Providers across 20 specialties in 2017.\n\nThe Southern Cross Health Trust is a Charitable Trust and owns: \nSouthern Cross Hospitals, established in 1979, is New Zealand’s largest private hospital network, with 19 wholly owned and joint-venture facilities that provided private healthcare services to 78,000 patients in the year to June 2017. This includes insurance-funded, public-funded and self-paying patients. Nearly 1000 surgeons and anaesthetists are credentialed to practice within Southern Cross Hospitals facilities.\n\nSouthern Cross Benefits Limited, established in 1982, operates as a direct-to-consumer travel-insurance business (Southern Cross Travel Insurance) that covered around 445,000 travellers in both New Zealand and Australia in the 2017 financial year.\n\nIn 2012 Southern Cross Benefits Limited acquired the pet insurance book of Ellenco Pet Insurance and re-launched the business as Southern Cross Pet Insurance in 2014. As at 30 June 2017 Southern Cross Pet Insurance insured more than 21,000 cats and dogs.\n\nAs a Charitable Trust, the Southern Cross Health Trust reinvests any surpluses it makes and partners with several charities. Its charitable activities include making its hospitals’ facilities, medical supplies and theatre staff available free-of-charge for charitable surgeries; funding a free mobile dental clinic that operates in the upper North Island; and supporting the New Zealand Dental Association, Dove Hospice and cancer support group Sweet Louise.\n\n"}
{"id": "13311819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13311819", "title": "Therapy", "text": "Therapy\n\nTherapy (often abbreviated tx, Tx, or T) is the attempted remediation of a health problem, usually following a diagnosis. In the medical field, it is usually synonymous with treatment (also abbreviated tx or T). Among psychologists and other mental health professionals, including psychiatrists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, counselors, and clinical social workers, the term may refer specifically to psychotherapy (sometimes dubbed 'talking therapy'). The English word \"therapy\" comes via Latin \"therapīa\" from and literally means \"curing\" or \"healing\".\n\nAs a rule, each therapy has indications and contraindications.\n\nThe words care, therapy, treatment, and intervention overlap in a semantic field, and thus they can be synonymous depending on context. Moving rightward through that order, the connotative level of holism decreases and the level of specificity (to concrete instances) increases. Thus, in health care contexts (where its senses are always noncount), the word \"care\" tends to imply a broad idea of everything done to protect or improve someone's health (for example, as in the terms \"preventive care\" and \"primary care\", which connote ongoing action), although it sometimes implies a narrower idea (for example, in the simplest cases of wound care or postanesthesia care, a few particular steps are sufficient, and the patient's interaction with that provider is soon finished). In contrast, the word \"intervention\" tends to be specific and concrete, and thus the word is often countable; for example, one instance of cardiac catheterization is one intervention performed, and coronary care (noncount) can require a series of interventions (count). At the extreme, the piling on of such countable interventions amounts to interventionism, a flawed model of care lacking holistic circumspection—merely treating discrete problems (in billable increments) rather than maintaining health. \"Therapy\" and \"treatment\", in the middle of the semantic field, can connote either the holism of \"care\" or the discreteness of \"intervention\", with context conveying the intent in each use. Accordingly, they can be used in both noncount and count senses (for example, \"therapy for chronic kidney disease can involve several dialysis treatments per week\").\n\nThe words \"aceology\" and \"iamatology\" are obscure and obsolete synonyms referring to the study of therapies.\n\nLevels of care classify health care into categories of chronology, priority, or intensity, as follows:\n\nTreatment decisions often follow formal or informal algorithmic guidelines. Treatment options can often be ranked or prioritized into lines of therapy: first-line therapy, second-line therapy, third-line therapy, and so on. First-line therapy (sometimes called induction therapy, primary therapy, or front-line therapy) is the first therapy that will be tried. Its priority over other options is usually either: (1) formally recommended on the basis of clinical trial evidence for its best-available combination of efficacy, safety, and tolerability or (2) chosen based on the clinical experience of the physician. If a first-line therapy either fails to resolve the issue or produces intolerable side effects, additional (second-line) therapies may be substituted or added to the treatment regimen, followed by third-line therapies, and so on.\n\nAn example of a context in which the formalization of treatment algorithms and the ranking of lines of therapy is very extensive is chemotherapy regimens. Because of the great difficulty in successfully treating some forms of cancer, one line after another may be tried. In oncology the count of therapy lines may reach 10 or even 20.\n\nOften multiple therapies may be tried simultaneously (combination therapy or polytherapy). Thus combination chemotherapy is also called polychemotherapy, whereas chemotherapy with one agent at a time is called single-agent therapy or monotherapy.\n\nAdjuvant therapy is therapy given in addition to the primary, main, or initial treatment, but simultaneously (as opposed to second-line therapy). Neoadjuvant therapy is therapy that is begun before the main therapy. Thus one can consider surgical excision of a tumor as the first-line therapy for a certain type and stage of cancer even though radiotherapy is used before it; the radiotherapy is neoadjuvant (chronologically first but not primary in the sense of the main event). Premedication is conceptually not far from this, but the words are not interchangeable; cytotoxic drugs to put a tumor \"on the ropes\" before surgery delivers the \"knockout punch\" are called neoadjuvant chemotherapy, not premedication, whereas things like anesthetics or prophylactic antibiotics before dental surgery are called premedication.\n\nStep therapy or stepladder therapy is a specific type of prioritization by lines of therapy. It is controversial in American health care because unlike conventional decision-making about what constitutes first-line, second-line, and third-line therapy, which in the U.S. reflects safety and efficacy first and cost only according to the patient's wishes, step therapy attempts to mix cost containment by someone other than the patient (third-party payers) into the algorithm. Therapy freedom and the negotiation between individual and group rights are involved.\n\nTreatments can be classified according to the method of treatment:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21548158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21548158", "title": "Timeline of food", "text": "Timeline of food\n\nEarliest estimate for invention of cooking, by phylogenetic analysis.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2373776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2373776", "title": "Walter W. Marseille", "text": "Walter W. Marseille\n\nWalter William Marseille (born 1901) was a German-American psychoanalyst and graphologist. In 1948 he corresponded with Albert Einstein and Bertrand Russell, advocating world government.\n\nWalter Marseille was the son of Gustav Marseille, a leader in the progressive education movement. He studied psychology, mathematics, history, and philosophy at the Universities of Heidelberg, Freiburg, and Munich. In 1926 he took a doctorate under Martin Heidegger at Marburg University. Further information is given by his friend Karl Löwith. From 1928 to 1933 Marseille followed the workshops (Arbeitsgemeinschaft) of Heinrich Jacoby in Berlin; his address was Dernburgstr. 34, Charlottenburg (Berlin). He later claimed to have broken with Heidegger in 1932 over Heidegger's refusal to condemn Nazism. Löwith tells us that Marseille left Germany in 1933, went to Vienna where he married a woman of Jewish origin, and then emigrated to the United States. He trained as a psychoanalyst at the Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute and the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society, and took Ruth Mack Brunswick as his training analyst.\n\nMarseille was hired by Paul Lazarsfeld in 1940 to analyse the handwriting of mail received by US Senators during the debate on the conscription bill, and developed an index for the cultural rating of handwriting.\n\nIn April 1948 Marseille sent a paper, \"A Method to Enforce World Peace\", to both Bertrand Russell and Albert Einstein. A copy of the paper is in the Einstein archives along with correspondence with Einstein about it. See \"Einstein on Peace\" (1960), edited by Otto Nathan. Einstein's four replies in the ensuing discussion were sold by Bloomsbury Auctions in October 2008. The lot description in the sales catalogue reads as follows:\n84. Einstein (Albert, theoretical physicist, 1879-1955) 4 Typed Letters signed to Dr. Walter W. Marseille, in German, 4pp., 4to, Princeton, 8th April - 16th November 1948, responding to Marseille’s paper “A Method to Enforce World Peace” and their subsequent correspondence on the establishment of world government and the Western world’s relations with Russia, [Letter 1] (You proceed from these premises: The USA wants a supra-national organisation [World Government], the USSR is averse to this because of its aggressive attitude. I believe that this characterisation of the psychological state of affairs is not justified. Now to your proposal. We agree on the following: only World Government can produce security. Where we differ is in the thesis that we must compel Russia to join [a World Government] before it re-arms and can attack others. Better to let Russia see that there is nothing to be achieved by aggression, but there are advantages in joining: Then the Russian regime’s attitude will probably change and they will take part without compulsion. Our differences of opinion are significant as long as it is uncertain whether the USA really wants to bring about a World Government... . Before this situation is resolved, your question should not even be raised, since such a discussion can only make the psychological situation worse) [Letter 2] (Factually your letter is entirely logical. However I cannot associate myself with your point of view, much less with that expressed by Bertrand Russell [who at this point was violently anti-communist]. Your train of thought is like that of a soldier or an engineer, in that you in my opinion unfeasably simplify the psychological reaction, especially insofar as it concerns the Russians. The attitude of the Russians, it seems to me, clearly shows that they are deeply concerned about the military-industrial situation, and that they would be prepared to make considerable concessions if some degree of relaxation was permitted. I am convinced that Roosevelt [Truman] is quite capable of bringing about a peaceful modus vivendi with Russia... ) [Letter 3] (I agree with you in that the resolution of the problem of security on an international basis cannot wait. In view of the resolute refusal of Russia, there seems no other possibility than that the organisation exist without Russia... . The question now arises whether such a ‘Rump’ World Government should compel Russia to join. This would mean war... with regard to this, I am not of your opinion. You argue that Russia’s relative strength will grow in time and thereby worsen the situation for the rest of the world. This last is granted: I am, however, absolutely against it. It is like suicide out of fear of dying. In my view it is much better, both morally and practically, to attempt to bring about a state of affairs in which the Russians, out of pure self-interest, find it preferable to give up their separatist position) [Letter 4] (I propose that you should set out your views of the situation in a letter to the individual Trustees of the Emergency Committee of Atomic Scientists. As far as I am aware of their views, you will not find general agreement there but rather, unfortunately, with Bertrand Russell), last letter with small tear in margin ; and 4 others including 3 typescript copies of Marseille’s letters to Einstein expounding his opinions on World Government and Russia and a typescript, From Max Eastman: Excerpt from a conversation with Einstein, May, 1938, on Freud and Freudian ideas, pencil inscription at head: “From Max Eastman”, folds, browned, some with punch holes in left hand margins, some edges a little creased.\nMarseille was the recipient of a well-known letter dated 5 May 1948 in which Bertrand Russell signalled his agreement with the paper. Russell's letter, of which Einstein may have been the first to have been sent a copy, was first published by Marseille in \"The Nation\", 16 Oct. 1954, when he disagreed with Russell's changed views on nuclear disarmament. The letter and its lack of context have been of concern to Russell scholars.\n\nBy 1954 Marseilles was a Berkeley, California psychoanalyst. That year he contributed a series of radio programmes broadcasts attempting a psychoanalytic study of Karl Marx. He published occasionally on nuclear weapons policy in the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\", from 1954 until 1962.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34633696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34633696", "title": "Young Doctors", "text": "Young Doctors\n\nYoung Doctors is an Australian factual television show that looks at the work of junior doctors at John Hunter Hospital in Newcastle, New South Wales. This eight-part observational documentary series began on the Nine Network on 26 October 2011. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35882447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35882447", "title": "Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee", "text": "Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee\n\nThe Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee (ZNPC) is responsible for Zimbabwe's participation in the Paralympic Games, and for overseeing disability sports in the country. Its mission it to support athletes with disabilities \"competing at both the grassroots and elite levels\".\n\nThe Zimbabwe National Paralympic Committee was only officially launched and registered in 2010. Prior to this, \"the government provided financial aid during the Paralympic Games, [but] there was no co-ordinated mechanism to maintain athletes' momentum between the Games\", and athletes \"had to find their own sponsor, coach and manager who would finance the training, travelling and their participation at competitions\".\n\n\n"}
