{"id": "42031683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42031683", "title": "2014 Negeri Sembilan and Selangor water crisis", "text": "2014 Negeri Sembilan and Selangor water crisis\n\nThe 2014 Negeri Sembilan and Selangor water crisis was a water crisis that began in the Malaysian states of Negeri Sembilan and Selangor and lasted from February to August 2014. Its roots can be traced to hot and dry climactic conditions in Peninsular Malaysia in early 2014, but other factors, including water infrastructure problems and political deadlock in negotiations between the government and private water concessionaires also played central roles. It was the worst water crisis in the state since the 1998 Klang Valley water crisis.\n\nPeninsular Malaysia experienced unusually hot and dry weather in early 2014, with a lack of rainfall in key catchment areas from which the water supply was sourced. Early speculations linked the dry weather to the El Niño effect, but no El Niño emerged in 2014.\n\nOffline treatment plants have been an ongoing problem in Selangor. In February 2014 two plants in the state were shut down due to ammonia contamination.\n\n84% of the Selangor people believe that politics were the main factor responsible for the escalation of water shortages to crisis-level. Disagreements between Syarikat Bekalan Air Selangor (SYABAS) and the state government slowed progress toward a stable water supply. The deadlines for agreement on a water distribution restructuring deal between the government and water concessionaires were postponed several times, while water supply to many households continued to be intermittent.\n\nIn Negeri Sembilan, the seven reservoir dams in the state suffered a substantial drop in water level. More than 8,000 homes were affected particularly in the areas of Sendayan, Rasah, Mambau and Seremban. On 19 February 2014, Negeri Sembilan Menteri Besar (Chief Minister), Mohamad Hassan declared a state of crisis following the water shortage – the worst the state has seen in decades.\n\nThe announcement had to be made after taps ran dry in several thousand households, due to the unusually long dry spell which has resulted in several water catchment areas drying up.\n\nNatural-disaster relief personnel were dispatched to supply potable water to 8,000 households.\n\nAs river sources dried up, water levels fell to critical levels in seven of the state's dams, including as low as 31% of capacity at the Sungai Selangor Dam, which supplies more than 60% of the state's water.\nThese critically low reserve levels prompted water rationing affecting upwards of 6.7 million residents and lasting from March to May.\nAs a result of reduced access to water for commercial use, at least 30 companies in the state, especially in the food and drinks processing, rubber, chemical, electrical and tourism industries, suffered losses greater than MYR1 million.\n\nIn the wake of sustained problems with water infrastructure and supply in Selangor, negotiations are underway to return the four private water concessionaires operating in Selangor to state control.\nConstruction has been approved of the MYR993.89 million Langat 2 water treatment plant which was proposed to increase the state's output of treated water, alleviate pressure on other treatment plants, and provide an additional safety net in times of crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13310937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13310937", "title": "AMA Physician Masterfile", "text": "AMA Physician Masterfile\n\nThe American Medical Association (AMA) Physician Masterfile includes current and historical data on all physicians, including AMA members and nonmembers, and graduates of foreign medical schools who reside in the United States and who have met the educational and credentialing requirements necessary for recognition as physicians. A Masterfile record is created and ME number assigned when entering medical school or through the ECFMG. For medical students, there are two primary methods to create the initial record - the Student Outreach Program and the annual freshman matriculation file received from the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC).\n\nThe Physician Masterfile spans from undergraduate medical education through practice and comprise databases of \n\nPhysician records are never removed from the AMA Physician Masterfile, even in the case of a physician's death.\n\nThe Student Outreach Program creates affiliate student records in a database specifically designed to support AMA membership recruitment activities. The record includes:\n\n\"Unverified\" affiliate student records are considered and use of the data is limited to providing membership benefits and membership payment processing.\n\nThe AMA Masterfile has been in use since 1906.\n\nThe data are shared with other organizations and agencies who credential physicians and are used to identify individuals who attempt to fraudulently assume the credentials of deceased physicians.\n\nAn AMA Physician Masterfile record is established when individuals enter medical schools accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME), or in the case of international medical graduates (IMG), upon entry into ACGME-accredited programs. When creating a record, the database is first checked to see if the person has a record using legal last name, legal first name, date of birth, school code, and state of residence to identify unique student entities when creating Masterfile records.\n\nEach AMA Physician Masterfile record includes \n\nData on international medical graduates (IMGs) are included in the AMA Physician Masterfile when IMGs enter residency programs accredited by the Accreditation Council on Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). The AMA Physician Masterfile also includes data on IMGs who are licensed to practice medicine but who have not entered ACGME-accredited programs and on physicians licensed to practice medicine in the United States but who are temporarily located abroad.\n\nThe ME Number is created after a student record is created. Social Security number was used for ME Number and is widely used by internal AMA processing systems. The ME number is assigned by the AMA Finance Department.\n\nIn July 2007, it was publicized that the AMA discloses Masterfile Physician Data to pharmaceutical companies. In 2000, the AMA earned $20 million from the sale of data from the MasterFile. Currently, the AMA brings in over $40 million a year licensing the database.\nA summary of this issue is available on the National Physicians Alliance website.\n"}
{"id": "44560255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44560255", "title": "Abortion in Brunei", "text": "Abortion in Brunei\n\nAbortion in Brunei is legal only when it is done to save a woman's life. In Brunei, a woman who induces her abortion is subject to up to seven years in prison. The penalty for someone who performs an abortion was 10-15 years.\n\nIn 2014, Brunei's government implemented Sharia criminal law to punish abortion with execution by stoning. This part of the law was originally set to come into effect in 2016, although now it is expected to come into effect in 2018.\n\nIn 2016, a 22 year old woman was sentenced to six months in prison for obtaining an abortion using the abortion pill. She had faced a maximum sentence of seven years.\n"}
{"id": "59056590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59056590", "title": "Alexander D. Blackader", "text": "Alexander D. Blackader\n\nAlexander D. Blackader (1847-1932) was the president of the American Pediatric Society for 1892-93.\n"}
{"id": "12714726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12714726", "title": "Barnes–Jewish West County Hospital", "text": "Barnes–Jewish West County Hospital\n\nBarnes–Jewish West County Hospital (named Faith Hospital until its purchase by BJC HealthCare) is a 108-bed hospital in St. Louis County, Missouri. The campus consists of Washington University School of Medicine and private practice physicians. Barnes–Jewish West County Hospital is a member of BJC HealthCare and employs nearly 500 healthcare professionals. It's also a site of the Alvin J. Siteman Cancer Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "1510082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1510082", "title": "Bishop score", "text": "Bishop score\n\nBishop score, also Bishop's score, also known as cervix score is a pre-labor scoring system to assist in predicting whether induction of labor will be required. It has also been used to assess the likelihood of spontaneous preterm delivery. The Bishop Score was developed by Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Dr. Edward Bishop, and was first published in August 1964.\n\nThe total score is calculated by assessing the following five components on manual vaginal examination by a trained professional:\n\n\nThe Bishop score grades patients who would be most likely to achieve a successful induction. The duration of labor is inversely correlated with the Bishop score; a score that exceeds 8 describes the patient most likely to achieve a successful vaginal\nbirth. Bishop scores of less than 6 usually require that a cervical ripening method (pharmacologic or physical, such as a foley bulb) be used before other methods.\n\nThey can be remembered with the mnemonic: \"Call PEDS For Parturition\" = \"C\"ervical \"P\"osition, \"E\"ffacement, \"D\"ilation, \"S\"oftness; \"F\"etal \"S\"tation.\n\nThe examiner assigns a score to each component of 0 to 2 or 0 to 3. The highest possible score is 13 and the lowest possible score is 0.\n\nA Bishop's score 6 or less often indicates that induction (e.g., with controlled-release prostaglandin E2/prostin gel [Cervidil], intravaginal gel [Prostin], intracervical gel [Prepidil]) is unlikely to be successful. Some sources indicate that only a score of 8 or greater is reliably predictive of a successful induction.\n\nAccording to the Modified Bishop's pre-induction cervical scoring system, effacement has been replaced by cervical length in cm, with scores as follows: 0 for >3 cm, 1 for >2 cm, 2 for >1 cm, 3 for >0 cm. Cervical length may be easier and more accurate to measure and have less inter-examiner variability.\nAnother modification for the Bishop's score is the modifiers. Points are added or subtracted according to special circumstances as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "2591531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2591531", "title": "CHARGE syndrome", "text": "CHARGE syndrome\n\nCHARGE syndrome (formerly known as CHARGE association) is a rare syndrome caused by a genetic disorder. First described in 1979, the acronym \"CHARGE\" came into use for newborn children with the congenital features of coloboma of the eye, heart defects, atresia of the nasal choanae, retardation of growth and/or development, genital and/or urinary abnormalities, and ear abnormalities and deafness. These features are no longer used in making a diagnosis of CHARGE syndrome, but the name remains. About two thirds of cases are due to a CHD7 mutation. CHARGE syndrome occurs only in 0.1–1.2 per 10,000 live births; as of 2009 it was the leading cause of congenital deafblindness in the US.\n\nCHARGE syndrome was formerly referred to as CHARGE association, which indicates a non-random pattern of congenital anomalies that occurs together more frequently than one would expect on the basis of chance. Very few people with CHARGE will have 100% of its known features. In 2004, mutations on the CHD7 gene (located on Chromosome 8) were found in 10 of 17 patients in the Netherlands, making CHARGE an official syndrome. A US study of 110 individuals with CHARGE syndrome showed that 60% of those tested had a mutation of the CHD7 gene.\n\nIn 2010, a review of 379 clinically diagnosed cases of CHARGE syndrome, in which CHD7 mutation testing was undertaken found that 67% of cases were due to a CHD7 mutation. CHD7 is a member of the chromodomain helicase DNA-binding (CHD) protein family that plays a role in transcription regulation by chromatin remodeling.\n\nThe diagnosis of CHARGE syndrome is often difficult, because it is rare. The syndrome spans many disciplines, and as such, can be diagnosed by a pediatrician, oral and maxillofacial surgeon, ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, endocrinologist, cardiologist, urologist, developmental specialist, radiologist, geneticist, physiotherapist, occupational therapist, speech therapist, or orthopedic specialist.\n\nAlthough genetic testing positively identifies nearly two thirds of children with CHARGE syndrome, diagnosis is still largely clinical. The following signs were originally identified in children with this syndrome, but are no longer used in to make the diagnosis alone.\n\n\nGenetic testing for CHARGE syndrome involves specific genetic testing for the CHD7 gene. The test is available at most major genetic testing laboratories. Insurance companies sometimes do not pay for such genetic tests, though this is changing rapidly as genetic testing is becoming standard across all aspects of medicine. CHARGE syndrome is a clinical diagnosis, which means genetic testing is not required in order to make the diagnosis. Rather, the diagnosis can be made based on clinical features alone.\n\nOnce the diagnosis is made based on clinical signs, it is important to investigate other body systems that may be involved. For example, if the diagnosis is made based on the abnormal appearance of the ears and developmental delay, it is important to check the child's hearing, vision, heart, nose, and urogenital system. Ideally, every child newly diagnosed with CHARGE syndrome should have a complete evaluation by an ENT specialist, audiologist, ophthalmologist, pediatric cardiologist, developmental therapist, and pediatric urologist.\n\nChildren with CHARGE syndrome may have a number of life-threatening medical conditions; with advances in medical care, these children can survive and can thrive with the support of a multidisciplinary team of medical professionals. Therapies and education must take into consideration hearing impairment, vision problems, and any others. Early intervention, such as occupational, speech-language, and physical therapy, to improve static posture, ambulation, and self-care skills is important. The intelligence of children with multiple health impairments, such as combined deafblindness, can be underestimated in the absence of early intervention.\n\nChildren with CHARGE syndrome will vary greatly in their abilities in the classroom: some may need little support, while some may require full-time support and individualized programs.\nTaking each of the various affected body systems into account is vital to the success of the child in the educational setting.\nAn important step in dealing with abnormal behavior is understanding why it is occurring and helping the child learn more appropriate methods of communicating. Before a child reaches age 18 (or the age of maturity in their country) doctors and specialists need to be found that will follow the individual in adulthood.\n\nThe incidence is estimated to range from 0.1–1.2 per 10,000 live births, though the true incidence is unknown. As of 2005, the highest prevalence was found in Canada and estimated at 1 in 8,500 live births.\n\nDr. B.D. Hall first described the CHARGE association in a 1979 journal paper of about 17 children who had been born with choanal atresia. During the same year, Dr. H.M. Hittner described 10 children who had choanal atresia as well as coloboma, congenital heart defect, and hearing loss. Using both coloboma or choanal atresia and some of the other related characteristic malformations, Dr. R. A. Pagon first coined the acronym CHARGE in 1981 to emphasize that this cluster of associated malformations occurred together. \nIt came to be recognised as a syndrome within the umbrella of the CHARGE association, a set of apparently random signs occurring together. Since the signs seen in CHARGE are caused by a genetic anomaly, its name was eventually changed to 'CHARGE syndrome'.\n"}
{"id": "30700264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30700264", "title": "Chennai MetroWater Supply and Sewage Board", "text": "Chennai MetroWater Supply and Sewage Board\n\nChennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board known as CMWSSB provides Water supply and sewage treatment to the city of Chennai and areas around it.\n\nChennai is one of the metros in India which is dependent mostly on ground water supply. Ground water in Chennai is replenished by rain water and average rainfall in Chennai is 1276 mm. Chennai receives about 985 million liters per day (mld) from various sources against the required amount of 1200 mld and the demand is expected to rise to 2100 mld by 2031. The newly constructed Minjur desalination plant adds another 100 mlds to the city's growing demand.\n\nAs of 2012, Chennai Metrowater supplies about 830 million litres of water every day to residents and commercial establishments.\n\nTill about the mid of 19th century, Chennai received water from local shallow wells and tanks. Mr. Fraser, a civil engineer who visited Madras, forwarded a proposal to the government to tap the Kortalayar river which is situated about 160 km northwest of Chennai and it was accepted. The project consisted of a masonry weir across Kortalayar at Tamarapakkam and diverted the water into Cholavaram lake and hence into the Red Hills lake through a channel. The works were completed in 1870 at a cost of about Rs.18.50 lakhs. In 1872, a Valve House at Red Hills and an earthen supply channel to supply water to Chennai by gravitation was constructed. In early 1890, surface drains in the City were connected to Pumping Stations and the wastewater conveyed for disposal away from inhabitation.\n\nThe authorities observed an increase in population in the beginning of the 20th century. Hence, they decided to develop a comprehensive drainage scheme. The proposal for this scheme to cater to the needs of a topographically flat, fast growing city was formulated in 1907 and works were initiated in 1910 and completed during 1914 in stages. The systems were designed for the population of 6.5 lakhs expected in 1961 at 114 lit. per capita per day of water supply. The system originally consisted of a network of force mains and brick gravity sewers served by 3 Pumping Stations at Royapuram, Purasaiwalkam and Napier Park and ultimately discharging wastewater into the sea at Kasimedu on the Northeastern boundary of the City. A fundamental change to this system was made in 1956 by laying a force main to divert part of the sewage discharged from the Purasaiwalkam Pumping Station to Kodungaiyur where the sewage farm was established. The aim of this diversion was to utilise the sewage for irrigation and fertilising agricultural land. But one of the implied benefit of this was the conservation of fresh water whose supply was scarce. Thereafter a comprehensive wastewater management scheme was formulated. The implementation of these schemes commenced in 1961 and had undergone modifications periodically commensurate with the system requirements of an expanding City and the growing population. The wastewater system for the City has been divided into five drainage zones. These zones of macro systems covering the entire City had independent zonal collections, conveyance, treatment and disposal facilities.\n\nZone-1 covers the areas of Tondaiarpet, Washermenpet, Royapuram, George Town and Chindadripet. Zone-2 comprises areas such as Nungambakkam, Chetpet, Kilpauk, Egmore, Purasaiwalkam, Ayanavaram, Perambur, Vyasarpadi, Sembium, Kolathur, Periyar Nagar, Jawahar Nagar and Kodungaiyur. It is the largest of all zones. Zone–III lies between Zone–II and Zone–IV to the West. It comprises Thyagaraya Nagar, Kodambakkam, Arumbakkam, Anna Nagar and Koyambedu. The areas covered by Zone-4 are Ashok Nagar, Saidapet, Jafferkhanpet, K.K. Nagar and Nesapakkam. Zone–V is the second largest of the five macro systems and is to the South of the City which is bifurcated by the Adyar River. Areas covered are Ice House, Mylapore, Adyar, Guindy, Velacherry, Gandhi Nagar and Indra Nagar.\n\nTherefore, considerable amount of efforts were made by the government to ensure the administration and development of a proper wastewater system in Chennai.\n\nChennai has fresh water reservoirs/lakes namely Poondi, Sholavaram, Red Hills, Chembarambakkam and Veeranam cater the daily needs of water for people of Chennai.\n\nChennai receives most of its water from Poondi Lake (3,231 Mcft), Sholavaram Lake (881 Mcft), Red Hills Lake (3,300 Mcft) and Chembarambakkam Lake (3,645 Mcft).\n\nThe Veeranam Water Supply Project was implemented as an additional source of water to Chennai City. The Project was commissioned in the year 2004 to supply 180 MLD of water to Chennai City by drawing water from Veeranam Lake. This lake receives water from Cauvery River system through Kollidam, Lower Anicut and Vadavar Canal besides rainwater from its own catchment area. The capacity of the lake is 1465 mcft. The lake water is treated at Vadakuthu Water Treatment Plant by pumping raw water at a distance of 20 km. from Sethiathope to Vadakuthu through a 1775 mm dia mild steel pipe. The treated water is then pumped at a distance of 8 km. to Break Pressure Tank at Kadampuliyur through a 1750 mm dia mild steel pipe and from there the water is carried to a distance of about 200 km. Through the mild steel pipe of 1875 mm and 1500 mm dia by gravity to Porur Water Distribution Station near Chennai. From this Distribution Station, water is pumped to a distance of 1.2 km. and distributed to Chennai City through Trunk mains and Water Distribution stations.\n\nChennai has Reverse osmosis plants namely at Velachery, Nochikuppam, Kasimedu, and Ayodhyakuppam. It takes raw Brackish water from bore wells, store in tanks and then purifies it before supply.\n\nDesalination plant is located at Kattupalli, Minjur. The Chennai Water Desalination Ltd. (CWDL) is setting the plant infrastructure and maintaining the plant for 25 years as per agreement between CWDL and CMWSSB. The CMWSSB purchase water from them and supplies to the city network through Madhavaram Booster Station.\n\nIn an effort to alleviate the woes of Chennaiites, Tamil Nadu Government has forged into projects acquiring fresh water by desalinating sea water. The first such desalination plant was built in in Kattupalli village near Minjur about 35 km north of Chennai. Minjur desalination plant which supplies 100 million litres a day water to Chennai city was inaugurated on 31 July 2010. Second water desalination plant of 100mld capacity constructed and commissioned at Nemmeli, South of Chennai City. Besides two new Sea Water Reverse Osmosis Plants (SWRO) are proposed of 150mld (funded under KFW) at Nemmeli and 400mld (funded under JICA) at Perur are proposed for catering to Chennai Water Supply.(Reference: Municipal Administration and Water Supply department of Government of Tamil Nadu, Policy Note 2015 -2016)\n\nThe Water Treatment Plants are:\n\nChennai City Sewerage System was designed in 1910 for an estimated 1961 population of 6.6 lakhs. A comprehensive improvement to the city sewage system was designed in 1958 for an estimated 1976 population of 25.5 lakhs and 1991 population of 27.2 lakhs at a sewage flow rate of 110 lpcd in 1976 and 180 lpcd in 1991; the city was also divided into five zones with proposals for five independent disposal works. It was planned to isolate the system of collection, transmission and disposal of sewage in each zone in order to obviate the difficulties of the relay system. Presently the sewerage network in Chennai city has covered 98% of its area. As the capacity of sewers was limited, during rainy days they became surcharged due to ingress of storm water. Any surplus of sewage in excess of pumping stations capacity was drained into the nearby natural water courses of the city viz. Cooum river, Adyar river, Buckingham canal and Otteri Nalla.\nThe following are the Sewage Treatment Plants of CMWSSB as of February 2016\n1)Kodungaiyur 270mld (110+80+80), 2)Villivakkam 5mld 3)Koyambedu 214mld (34+60+120)4)Nesapakkam 117mld (23+40+54) and 5)Perungudi including Alandur and considering BOD and SS load 163mld {79 (instead of installed 54)+72 (instead of installed 60)+12)totalling to 769 mld (million litres per day)in 13 units of which 535mld is powered by Biogas (produced during the Sewage Treatment)engines.( Reference: Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department of Government of Tamil Nadu Policy Note 2015-2016, page 223).Besides two sewage treatment plants are under construction at Thiruvatriyur (31mld) and Sholinganallur (18mld).\n\nThe importance of conservation of water and rainwater harvesting can not be understated. While issuing Planning Permission for construction of major developments such as flats, residential developments, office, shopping and other commercial complexes, the condition to provide rain water-harvesting structures within the premises was put and ensured to be provided before issue of Completion Certificates. Provision of rainwater structures in all types of developments, irrespective of size or use was made mandatory by amending DCR and Buildingg Byelaws in the year 2001, not only for the buildings proposed to be constructed but also for all the existing buildings.\nAfter implementation of this scheme widely in CMA, a significant increase in the ground water levels and also quality of ground water was noted.\n\nThe water quality in Chennai is a long way to reach International standards as outlined in this study published on April 2007. Researchers from National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Chennai Zonal Laboratory, Chennai found Cryptosporidium oocytes in Chennai water. Cryptosporidium is an enteric parasitic protozoan capable of causing diarrhea.\n\nAs of 2011, MetroWater is catering for a population of 5 million. With the expansion of the corporation area in 2011 from 174 sq km to 426 sq km, which increased the number of wards of the Chennai Corporation from 155 to 200 and the number of zones from 10 to 15, MetroWater's customer base is expected to increase by an additional 1.7 million when the new areas are covered. The number of area offices of MetroWater would also be changed to correspond with the Corporation's zones. While the existing 155 depot offices of MetroWater would be reduced to 107, 93 new depot offices would be added from merged areas. At present, each depot office serves a population of about 50,000. Since two or three wards have been merged into one, the coverage of the depot office would increase by 20,000. There are also proposals to construct sewage treatment plants in Mangadu and Villivakkam as part of the plans to build new infrastructure for the newly merged areas.\n\nThe growth in the sewerage services compared to 1978 when the C.M.W.S.S. Board was formed till May 2017 are as below:\nThe Chennai Metro Water Supply and Sewage Board Board has shown its concern for environment through its sewage treatment process. In this process, bio-gas is produced and is being used to produce power to run the plants. This incidentally reduces the discharge of Green House Gas into the atmosphere and provides for Carbon Trading. CMWSS Board has adopted Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) which leads to savings in energy cost to a turn of Rs.43.05 lakhs per month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24358244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24358244", "title": "Child bone fracture", "text": "Child bone fracture\n\nA child bone fracture or a pediatric fracture is a medical condition in which a bone of a child (a person younger than the age of 18) is cracked or broken. About 15% of all injuries in children are fracture injuries. Bone fractures in children are different from adult bone fractures because a child’s bones are still growing. Also, more consideration needs to be taken when a child fractures a bone since it will affect the child in his or her growth.\n\nOn an everyday basis bones will support many kinds of forces naturally applied to them, but when the forces are too strong the bones will break. For example, when an adolescent jumps off of a trampoline and lands on his/her feet the bones and connective tissue in the adolescent’s feet will usually absorb the force, flex, then return to their original shape. However, if the adolescent lands and the force is too strong, the bones and the connective tissue will not be able to support the force and will fracture.\n\nThere are differences in the bone structure of a child and an adult. These differences are important for the correct evaluation and treatment of the fractures. A child’s bones heal faster than an adult’s because a thicker, stronger, and more active dense fibrous membrane (periosteum) covers the surface of their bones. The periosteum has blood vessels that supply oxygen and nutrition to the bone cells. The stronger and thicker periosteum in children causes a better supply of oxygen and nutrients to the bones, and this helps in the remodeling of the fractured bones by supplying. The periosteum in children causes a more rapid union of fractured bones and an increased potential for remodeling. A child’s fractures not only heal more quickly, but are significantly reduced due to the thickness and strength of a child’s periosteum. But this thickness also has its drawbacks; when there is a small displacement in the periosteum the thickness and strength of it will make the fracture in the periosteum difficult to diagnose.\n\nGrowth plates are the areas in bones where the bones grow. In children the growth plates are open, which helps to manage a child’s fractures.\n\nBone fracture types differ depending on the age and sex of the child. The changes in the bones over time cause variance in the pattern and number of bone fracture injuries. The probability of bone fractures in children increases with age. For a small child, injuries will most likely be minimal because the child doesn’t have the speed or mass to cause serious injuries. When age increases, so does mass and speed resulting in more serious fractures. The age when girls usually fracture a bone is twelve and for boys the age is fourteen. Also, girls statistically have fewer fractures than boys. About half of boys and one-fourth of girls are likely to have a fracture during childhood. The wrist is also the most likely part of the body to be injured. As sport activities increase, the fractures in children increase as well, especially for boys who participate in either wrestling or football. Much like bone types in the different stages of childhood are varying, so the bone fracture injuries in infants, children, and adolescents vary. Careful evaluation for the best treatment of each child is needed.\n\nThe bones of a child are more likely to bend than to break completely because they are softer and the periosteum is stronger and thicker. The fractures that are most common in children are the incomplete fractures; these fractures are the greenstick and torus or buckle fractures.\n\nThis fracture involves a bend on one side of the bone and a partial fracture on the other side. The name is by analogy with green (i.e., fresh) wood which similarly breaks on the outside when bent. The Sub-nanostructure of cortical bone may provide one possible explanation for the greenstick fractures in children. On the contrary to adults bone tissue, the low ratio between the mature and the immature enzymatic cross-links in children bone tissue is a potential explanation of the presence of greenstick fractures in children.\n\nThis fracture occurs at the metaphyseal locations and resemble the torus or base of a pillar in architectural terms. Acute angulation of the cortex is noted, as opposed to the usual curved surface.\n\nA fracture that doesn’t penetrate the skin.\nA fracture resulting in the ends of a bone penetrating the skin (these pose an increased risk of infection).\nA fracture where the bone cracks completely and the pieces line up.\nA fracture where the bone cracks completely in two or more pieces, and the pieces move out of alignment (this type of fracture might require surgery to make sure the pieces are aligned before casting).\n\nAn incomplete fracture (a thin crack in the bone that doesn’t go all the way through the bone.)\n\nThe bone is fractured only in one place.\n\nFracture in two or more places in the same bone.\n\nThe bone fractures in more than two places or is crushed into pieces.\n\nA \"corner fracture\" or \"bucket-handle fracture\" is fragmentation of the distal end of one or both femurs, with the loose piece appearing at the bone margins as an osseous density paralleling the metaphysis. The term \"bucket-handle fracture\" is used where the loose bone is rather wide at the distal end, making it end in a crescent shape. These types of fractures are characteristic of child abuse-related injuries.\n\nEven though symptoms vary widely after experiencing a bone fracture, the most common fracture symptoms include:\n\nChildren with generalized disorders such as renal diseases, cystic fibrosis, diabetes mellitus, growth hormone deficiency, and osteogenesis imperfecta disorders are at risk.\nNeuromuscular disorders: children with cerebral palsy, spina bifida, and arthrogryposis, have a higher risk of a fracture because of the combination of joint stiffness and poor mineralization.\n\nChildren in general are at greater risk because of their high activity levels. Children that have risk-prone behaviors are at even greater risk.\n\nOver 2.5 million child abuse and neglect cases are reported every year, and thirty-five out of every hundred cases are physical abuse cases. Bone fractures are sometimes part of the physical abuse of children; knowing the symptoms of bone fractures in physical abuse and recognizing the actual risks in physical abuse will help forward the prevention of future abuse and injuries. Astoundingly, these abuse fractures, if not dealt with correctly, have a potential to lead to the death of the child.\nFracture patterns in abuse fractures that are very common with abuse are fractures in the growing part of a long bone (between the shaft and the separated part of the bone), fractures of the humeral shaft (long bone between the shoulder and elbow), ribs, scapula, outer end of the clavicle, and vertebra. Multiple fractures of varying age, bilateral fractures, and complex skull fractures are also linked to abuse. Fractures of varying ages occur in about thirteen percent of all cases.\n\nWhen a child experiences a fracture, he or she will have pain and will not be able to easily move the fractured area. A doctor or emergency care should be contacted immediately. In some cases even though the child will not have pain and will still be able to move, medical help must be sought out immediately. To decrease the pain, bleeding, and movement a physician will put a splint on the fractured area. Treatment for a fracture follows a simple rule: the bones have to be aligned correctly and prevented from moving out of place until the bones are healed. The specific treatment applied depends on how severe the fracture is, if it’s an open or closed fracture, and the specific bone involved in the fracture (a hip fracture is treated differently from a forearm fracture for example)\nDifferent treatments for different fractures: \nThe general treatments for common fractures are as follows:\n\nBecause most fractures heal successfully after having been repositioned, a simple plaster or fiberglass cast is commonly used.\n\nA cast, or brace, that allows limited movement of the nearby joints is acceptable for some fractures.\n\nThis treatment consists of aligning a bone or bones by a gentle, steady pulling action. The pulling may be transmitted to the bone or bones by a metal pin through a bone or by skin tapes. This is a preliminary treatment used in preparation for other secondary treatments.\n\nThis treatment is only used when an orthopedic surgeon assigns it to restore the fractured bone to its original function. This method positions the bones to their exact location, but there is a risk for infection and other complications. The procedure involves the orthopedist performing surgery on the bone to align the bone fragments, followed by the placement of special screws or metal plates to the outer surface of the bone. The fragments can also be held together by running metal rods through the marrow in the center of the bone.\n\nThis treatment also requires surgery by an orthopedist. Pins or screws are placed into the fractured bone above and below the fracture site. The orthopedic surgeon repositions the bone fragments and pins or screws are connected to a metal bar or bars outside the skin which holds the bones in their proper position so they can heal. The external fixation device is removed after an appropriate time period.\n\nThis is for the pain.\n\nFractures in children generally heal relatively fast, but may take several weeks to heal. Most growth plate fractures heal without any lasting effects. Rarely, bridging bone may form across growth plates, causing stunted growth and/or curving. In such cases, the bridging bone may need to be surgically removed. A growth plate fracture may also stimulate growth, causing a longer bone than the corresponding bone on the other side. Therefore, the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons recommends regular follow-up for at least a year after growth plate fractures.\n\n"}
{"id": "58624580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58624580", "title": "China Kadoorie Biobank", "text": "China Kadoorie Biobank\n\nThe China Kadoorie Biobank is acquiring genomic data on half a million Chinese participants.\n\nIt collected questionnaire and physical data and blood samples on 510,000 men and women aged between 30 and 79 from 10 regions in China between 2004-2008 with the aim of investigating chronic diseases (e.g. heart attack, stroke, diabetes, and cancer). Participants have been linked to mortality registers and nationwide health systems and a sub-group of 25,000 are retested every few years. It is a joint venture by the University of Oxford’s Clinical Trial Service Unit & Epidemiological Studies Unit and the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. \n\nResearch based on the biobank published by the American Thoracic Society in 2018 found that respiratory disease hospitalization or death were 36% higher among people who used wood or coal for cooking compared to those who used electricity or gas.\n\nA study published in Heart based on the biobank found that people who ate an egg a day had a lower incidence of cardiovascular disease overall than those who ate no eggs. They had a 25% lower incidence of hemorrhagic stroke, and a 12% reduction in risk of ischemic heart disease.\n"}
{"id": "7910553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7910553", "title": "Citizen survey", "text": "Citizen survey\n\nA citizen survey is a kind of opinion poll which typically asks the residents of a specific jurisdiction for their perspectives on local issues, such as the quality of life in the community, their level of satisfaction with local government, or their political leanings. Such a survey can be conducted by mail, telephone, Internet, or in person.\n\nCitizen surveys were advanced by Harry Hatry of the Urban Institute, who believed resident opinions to be as necessary to the actions of local government managers and elected officials as customer surveys are to business executives. Local government officials use the data from citizen surveys to assist them in allocating resources for maximum community benefit and forming strategic plans for community programs and policies. Many private firms and universities also conduct their own citizen surveys for similar purposes.\n\nIn 1991, the International City and County Manager's Association (ICMA) published a book by Thomas Miller and Michelle Miller Kobayashi titled \"Citizen Surveys: How To Do Them, How To Use Them, and What They Mean\", that directed local government officials in the basic methods for conducting citizen surveys. The book was revised and republished in 2000. In 2001, ICMA partnered with Miller and Kobayashi's organization National Research Center, Inc., to bring The National Citizen Survey, a low-cost survey service, to local governments. National Research Center, Inc. maintains a database of over 500 jurisdictions representing more than 40 million Americans, allowing local governments to compare their cities' results with similar communities nearby or across the nation.\n"}
{"id": "33217096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33217096", "title": "Clinical Health Promotion", "text": "Clinical Health Promotion\n\nClinical Health Promotion is Prevention, which includes elements of health promotion and rehabilitation, which takes place in the health care system together with patients.\n\nThe intention is to focus on and integrate prevention into patient pathway to reduce decease progression, prevent complications and relapse as well as maximize coping and quality of life. Clinical health promotion emanates from the health care system where the patient is the active/activated part and hence the efforts also include elements of health promotion and rehabilitation.\n\nEmphasis is placed on keeping choice and accountability with the patient, as well as empathy, feedback and positive expectations for the patient. The target audience is patients and the arena may be primary or secondary care where professionals in interaction with patients are engaged in clinical health promotion.\n\nExamples of clinical health promotion are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45270031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45270031", "title": "Craig Crawford (Australian politician)", "text": "Craig Crawford (Australian politician)\n\nCraig Daryl Crawford (born 17 January 1970) is an Australian politician. He has been the Labor Party member for Barron River in the Queensland Legislative Assembly since 2015.\n\nCrawford married his wife Rosalie at Queensland Parliament House in Brisbane in April 2016. He also has a son Luke.\n"}
{"id": "58344698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58344698", "title": "Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency", "text": "Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency\n\nCytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency (PORD) is a rare disease and inborn error of metabolism caused by deficiency of cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (POR), the 2-flavin protein that is responsible for the transfer of electrons from NADPH to all 50 microsomal cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes. This includes the steroidogenic enzymes CYP17A1 (17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase), CYP19A1 (aromatase), and CYP21A2 (21-hydroxylase); CYP26B1 (metabolizes retinoic acid); and the hepatic drug-metabolizing CYP450 enzymes (e.g., CYP3A4), among many other CYP450 enzymes. Symptoms of severe forms of PORD include ambiguous genitalia in males and females, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, cortisol deficiency, and Antley–Bixler skeletal malformation syndrome (ABS), while symptoms of mild forms include polycystic ovary syndrome in women and hypogonadism in men. Maternal virilization also occurs in severe forms, due to aromatase deficiency in the placenta. The ABS component of severe forms of PORD is probably caused by CYP26B1 deficiency, which results in retinoic acid excess and defects during skeletal embryogenesis. All forms of PORD in humans are likely partial, as POR knockout in mice results in death during prenatal development.\n"}
{"id": "22676179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22676179", "title": "David Berry Hart", "text": "David Berry Hart\n\nDr David Berry Hart FRSE FRCPE (12 October 1851 – 10 June 1920) was a Scottish gynaecological surgeon and academic.\n\nDavid Berry Hart was born in Edinburgh on 12 October 1851.\n\nHe graduated M.B., C.M. from the University of Edinburgh in 1877. Specialising in obstetrics and gynaecology, he continued his studies and obtained his doctorate MD in 1880, with a gold medal and the Syme Surgical Fellowship on \"\"The Structural Anatomy of the female pelvic floor\".\n\nHe was Secretary of the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society between 1879 and 1883 and became President in 1890. He was also Librarian to the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh. In 1888 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Andrew Douglas Maclagan, Sir Alexander Russell Simpson, Sir William Turner, and Sir German Sims Woodhead.\n\nDr Hart lived in an exceptionally fine Georgian townhouse designed by Robert Adam at 29 Charlotte Square in Edinburgh's First New Town.\n\nHe was an examiner in midwifery in the universities of Edinburgh, Oxford, Birmingham and Liverpool.\n\nHe was devoted to Liberalism and the United Free Church of Scotland.\n\nIn later life he lived at 5 Randolph Cliff on the edge of the Moray Estate in Edinburgh's affluent West End.\n\nHe died in Edinburgh on 10 June 1920.\n\n\nHis maternal grandfather, David Berry, had been a builder in Edinburgh. \n\nHis wife was Jessie Smith Welsh Berry, a first cousin, and they had two daughters and two sons. His daughter, Elsa Margaret Berry Hart (d.1961) married the Hon Robert Hepburne-Scott (1873-1950).\n\nA granddaughter was Marian Lines, a writer and actress, and his grandson David Berry-Hart, painter and sculptor.\n\nHis great-granddaughter is Tess Berry-Hart, playwright and novelist. \n\nProfessor Hart wrote nine books and more than 70 papers. Among these were \"Manual of Gynaecology\", \"Guide to Midwifery\" and \"Some Phases of Evolution\". He contributed an article on \"Hermaphrodism in Man\" for \"Encyclopaedia Medica\"\".\n\nRegarded by others as a tour de force of dubious utility, he drew on Mendelian principles with singular vigour. The sides of the vulval vestibule are visible as Hart’s line on the inside of the inner lips. Hart's line is the outer edge of the area and marks the change from vulvar skin to the smoother transitional skin of the vulva.\n\n"}
{"id": "37451236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37451236", "title": "Digital health", "text": "Digital health\n\nDigital health is the convergence of digital technologies with health, healthcare, living, and society to enhance the efficiency of healthcare delivery and make medicines more personalized and precise. The discipline involves the use of information and communication technologies to help address the health problems and challenges faced by patients. These technologies include both hardware and software solutions and services, including telemedicine, web-based analysis, email, mobile phones and applications, text messages, wearable devices, and clinic or remote monitoring sensors. Generally, digital health is concerned about the development of interconnected health systems to improve the use of computational technologies, smart devices, computational analysis techniques and communication media to aid healthcare professionals and patients manage illnesses and health risks, as well as promote health and wellbeing.\n\nDigital health is a multi-disciplinary domain which involves many stakeholders, including clinicians, researchers and scientists with a wide range of expertise in healthcare, engineering, social sciences, public health, health economics and management.\n\nAs an outgrowth of the Digital Revolution characterized by \"the mass production and widespread use of digital logic circuits, and its derived technologies, including the computer, digital cellular phone, and the Internet,\" key elements of digital health include wireless devices, hardware sensors and software sensing technologies, microprocessors and integrated circuits, the Internet, social networking, mobile/cellular networks and body area networks, health information technology, genomics, and personal genetic information.\nVarious domains span digital health. These include Healthcare technology assessment and monitoring to prevent, diagnose or treat diseases, monitoring of patients, or for rehabilitation or long-term care. Such technologies include Assistive technologies and rehabilitation robotics for people with disabilities so as to aid in their independence to perform daily tasks, unobtrusive monitoring sensors and wearable devices. Clinical decision support aids clinicians at the point of care, including diagnosis, analysis and interpretation of patient-related data.Computational simulations, modeling and machine learning approaches can model health-related outcomes. E-health delivers health information and services to enable data transmition, storage and retrievial for clinical, educational and administrative purposes. Mobile health (or mhealth) is the practice of medicine and public health supported by mobile devices.\nHealth systems engineering applications in health care systems, includes knowledge discovery, decision making, optimization, human factors engineering, quality engineering, and information technology and communication.\nHuman-computer-environment interactions Human-computer interaction principles tend to be based around user-centered, experience-centered or activity-centered designs. Virtual reality, video gaming rehabilitation, and serious games to provide a social and interactive experience for healthcare student and patient education. Speech and hearing systems for natural language processing, speech recognition techniques, and medical devices can aid in speech and hearing (e.g. cochlear implants).Telehealth, telemedicine, telecare, telecoaching and telerehabilitation provide various forms of patient care remotely at a distance.\n\nNational digital programs exist to support healthcare, such as those of Canada Health Infoway built on core systems of patient and provider registries, clinical and diagnostic imaging systems, clinical reports and immunizations. By 2014, 75% of Canadian physicians were using electronic medical records.\n\nIn Uganda and Mozambique, partnerships between patients with cell phones, local and regional governments, technologists, non-governmental organizations, academia, and industry have enabled mHealth solutions.\n\nThe innovation process for digital health is an iterative cycle for technological solutions classified into five main activity processes beginning from the identification of the healthcare problem, research, digital solution, evaluating the solution to implementation in working clinical practices.\n"}
{"id": "8702151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8702151", "title": "European BioSafety Association", "text": "European BioSafety Association\n\nThe European BioSafety Association (EBSA) is a non-profit organization, founded in June 1996, which provides a forum to its members to discuss and debate issues of concern and to represent those working in the field of biosafety and associated activities. Its mission is to enhance knowledge and understanding of biological safety throughout Europe and the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25154338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25154338", "title": "Father Eugeniusz Dutkiewicz SAC Hospice", "text": "Father Eugeniusz Dutkiewicz SAC Hospice\n\nFather Eugeniusz Dutkiewicz SAC Hospice (formerly: Pallottinum Hospice) in Gdańsk is a charitable organisation founded by the Pallottine priest E. Dutkiewicz in 1983, which provides palliative care for the terminally ill.\n\nFather E. Dutkiewicz SAC Hospice (formerly: Pallottinum Hospice) was established in Gdańsk in 1983 on the initiative of the Catholic Church, local medical staff and groups of volunteers. The founding movement was led by the Pallottine priest Eugeniusz Dutkiewicz, one of the pioneers of the concept of hospice care in Poland. In 1987, the Polish Episcopate appointed Fr Dutkiewicz the National Chaplain of Hospices in Poland in recognition of his active service for the development of hospice movement.\n\nSince it was established, the Hospice in Gdańsk dynamically expanded its range of charitable activities. In 1991, The Regional Center of Palliative and Hospice Care (Wojewódzki Ośrodek Opieki Paliatywnej i Hospicyjnej) was founded, which is in charge of palliative care in Gdańsk. The Center also provides consultations in palliative medicine for the whole Pomeranian region. After Dutkiewicz's death in 2002, the Pallottine priest Piotr Krakowiak, PhD, became the new director of the Hospice and was appointed the National Chaplain of Hospices in Poland in the same year.\nIn 2003, the hospice house was created, which offers help to the most needy patients. June 2003 saw the opening of the hospice ward for terminally ill children, which is the first hospice ward for adolescent patients in Pomeranian region. In 2004, on the initiative of Fr Krakowiak, The Hospice Foundation (\"Fundacja Hospicyjna\") was established. The foundation conducts charitable and educational activities throughout Poland, raising funds for more than a hundred of Polish hospices.\nIn January 2004, the Hospice obtained a new statute and assumed a new name in honour of its founder – the present name of the Hospice is: Father Eugeniusz Dutkiewicz SAC Hospice (\"Hospicjum im. Ks. Eugeniusza Dutkiewicza SAC\").\nThe Hospice offers two models of palliative care ― stationary hospice at a residence and home hospice, providing specialised care at a patient’s home. Both approaches are meant not only for adults but also for children.\n\nThe first form of help is aimed at the terminally ill patients whose families are unable to deliver constant care. The hospice residence provides thirty beds in rooms with separate sanitary fittings. The patients are entitled to stay at the stationary hospice for a long time; however, it is also possible to admit a patient for a shorter period ― until 10 days.\n\nThe philosophy of the home hospice consists in the co-operation of an interdisciplinary health care team with a patient's family. This model of help comprises personnel's visits at a patient's place of residence and provides specialised medical equipment, medicines and dressings.\n\nIrrespective of the model of the care delivered, the hospice offers twenty-four-hour access to help ― also on Saturdays and Sundays. The hospice conducts necessary laboratory tests and tests with the use of specialised equipment. The palliative care team includes physicians, nurses, therapists, specialists carrying out rehabilitation, clergymen and charity workers. Apart from the standard services, the Pediatric Ward organises games for the youngest patients, with the help of the volunteers.\nWhat is more, next to the palliative care centre, functions the so-called Academy to Fight Against Cancer, which offers relaxation techniques workshop hosted by a trained professional. The main objective of creating such therapeutic classes is to provide psychological support to those who are wrestling with stress and suffering from recurring states of depression, the two disturbances often associated with the illness discussed.\nA Palliative Care and Pain Therapy Outpatient Clinic has been established in the hospice house so as to deal with patients in the final stage of their disease. The clinic is intended to be visited by patients from Gdańsk and its environs who had completed casual treatment in hospital.\n\nThere is also a new initiative that has been born among the hospice team – the bereavement support groups for grieving persons. The workshop is hosted by an experienced therapist and aims at helping to endure the loss of a loved person. The participants of the workshop share the experience of loss and honour their relationships with their loved ones in an atmosphere of trust and openness.\n\nIt is worth mentioning that during their patients' difficult days, the hospice team strive to be with them and their kin, helping to alleviate their suffering also through common prayer. One can attend a special mass held every day in the hospice chapel in the intention of the ill.\n\nThe primary purpose of Gdańsk hospice is to focus on the palliation of patients in the terminal phase of their illness. The professional medical team, i.e. doctors and nurses, additionally aided by both clergymen and volunteers, strive to improve quality of life for people facing this difficult period of their existence. Medical volunteers provide services to the ailing and their families not only in the stationary residence, but in patients' private homes as well. Some main examples of volunteers' duties are: providing assistance with personal care such as bathing, doing light housekeeping for the patients and their families, and being a comforting and supportive presence.\n\nIn addition to the medical voluntary service, Gdańsk Hospice is also the organiser of various campaigns, both local and national. The aim of those is to help the ill and dying, as well as to popularise the hospice idea in society.\n\nOne of such campaigns is the \"WHAT programme\" (full name: \"Hospice Voluntary Service as a Tool of Acceptance and Tolerance Learning Tool among Prisoners\"), whose pioneer is Father E. Dutkiewicz Hospice. In accordance with the programme's guiding principles, convicts and small offence criminals may join voluntary service. The programme was initiated in 2002, and since then has proved to be a success. The movie \"To Overcome Prejudice\" tells the story of this campaign.\n\n'Fields of Hope' (\"Pola Nadziei\") is an international campaign, first conducted in Scotland by the Marie Curie Cancer Care Foundation. In Poland, the first to organise this campaign was the Hospice in Kraków in 1998, and in 2003, Father Eugeniusz Dutkiewicz Hospice SAC in Gdańsk joined the action. Each year, around 4 October, thousands of people plant daffodils (at hospitals, schools, government buildings, etc.) as a symbol of solidarity with cancer patients. In spring, when the flowers are in bloom, begins the action aiming to gather funds for providing hospice care. The volunteers, dressed in yellow T-shirts, collect money for the hospice on streets, in parks, in front of churches and shopping malls. A daffodil flower – the symbol of hope – is given out in thanks for contributions. The fund-raising is accompanied by various artistic happenings (e.g. concerts). In addition to gaining monetary fundings for the hospices, Fields of Hope is also aimed at promoting the idea of hospice care, informing the society of its role and activity, as well as sensitising people to the needs of terminally ill patients.\n\nThe \"Package from the Heart\" campaign (\"Paczka od Serca\") is organised each year in December, with the aim of helping the youngest patients. Within the campaign, an auction of special packages is held. The contents of said packages are composed by media, movie, music and sports celebrities.\n\nThe \"Become a Gdańsk Angel\" campaign (\"Zostań Gdańskim Aniołem\") has taken place during the 749th Dominican Fair (Jarmark Św. Dominika). The volunteers, dressed as angels, took part in the opening parade, and organised an additional attraction for spectators and the ill from Gdańsk Hospice. The aim of this campaign was to help people realise the importance of helping others, and also to call attention to the suffering of another.\n\n"}
{"id": "33089187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33089187", "title": "Female copulatory vocalizations", "text": "Female copulatory vocalizations\n\nFemale copulatory vocalizations, also called female copulation calls or coital vocalizations, are produced by female primates, including human females, and female non-primates. Copulatory vocalizations usually occur during sexual intercourse and are hence related to sexual activity. Vocalizations that occur before intercourse, for the purpose of attracting mates, are known as mating calls.\n\nIn primates, copulation calling is typically observed at the end of mating and there are vast variations between species regarding its occurrence, frequency and form. It is agreed that coital vocalizations fulfill an evolutionary purpose and that they serve as adaptive solutions to problems that the females face, such as infanticide, as well as obtaining high quality sperm.\n\nIn non-primates, copulatory calling predominantly occurs before copulation in order to attract mates (mating call). Calls vary in frequency (14 Hz to 70,000 Hz) and function. One of the main purposes of females vocalizing is the induction of mate guarding behavior in males. Conversely, calls may also be used in order to attract high ranking mates who can prevent intercourse with the initial partner. This is done to incite male mate competition.\n\nIn humans, coital vocalizations are linked to orgasm, hence occurring during copulation and serving as an expression of sexual pleasure. Vocalizations can be used intentionally by women in order to boost the self-esteem of their partner and to cause quicker ejaculation.\n\nIn non-human primates, copulatory vocalizations begin towards the end of the copulatory act or even after copulation. The percentage of vocalizations after copulation varies dependent on the non-human primate species studied. In long-tail macaques, for instance, 80% of copulations are followed by copulation calls. In contrast, the percentage for chimpanzees and Tonkean macaques has been found to be 78.8% and 6%, respectively. There is little consensus on what causes these inter-specific differences, given the lack of consistent findings within the literature. The typical quantity of specimen that are tested in experimental settings is often too low in order to allow any general conclusions about the species as a whole.\nAnother aspect of coital vocalization that varies according to species is the form of the call: in macaques and baboons they manifest themselves as grunts, whereas other species such as talapoins and chimpanzees typically emit screaming sounds. The quality and structure of copulatory calls are analyzed by comparing their respective spectrograms in terms of their frequency. Accordingly, some species produce calls that are structurally more complex than that of others. This is linked to the amount of promiscuity exhibited, in a way that more promiscuous species emit more faceted calls in order to convey more information about themselves and hence render self-advertisement more efficient.\n\nCopulatory calls in primates serve an adaptive function and are sexually selected. Calling signals sexual receptivity of the female and therefore affects mate choice. There are many different hypotheses as to the exact adaptive function of female copulatory calls in primates and research on the subject is still in its early stages.\n\nThere is general agreement that copulatory calls are the adaptive solution to problems with reproductive success. In other words, copulatory vocalizations address issues that stand in the way of successfully producing offspring and guaranteeing its survival, such as the occurrence of infanticide. To prevent the killing of their offspring, female baboons employ copulatory calls in order to attract other males, allowing multiple mating acts and creating parental confusion among the males involved. The resulting uncertainty of who the father is hence reduces the occurrence of attacks, given the newly incited risk of potentially harming their own offspring. Additionally, mating in rapid successions also entails sperm competition, and therefore fulfills the additional function of obtaining high quality sperm. This is especially important in species that do not openly advertise good genes via honest signals.\n\nBy attracting other males through post-copulatory calls, the female might provoke mate guarding behavior in their initial mate. This 'parental concentration', has two outcomes. Firstly, the male might be of high quality, allowing him to fend off those that were attracted by the call. In that case the female has not only gained someone who can protect her and who prevents infanticide through other males, but this also means that she was inseminated by a specimen with potentially good genes. Secondly, if the male fails to successfully guard her, she will mate with the newly arrived males, hence inciting sperm competition and paternity confusion (again preventing attacks on her offspring, as well as increasing her likelihood of obtaining high quality sperm). The calls produced by the female also carries information about the status of the male with whom she was copulating, thus allowing her to influence the likelihood of other males approaching.\n\nAccordingly, copulatory calls serve more than a single adaptive function. There is no mutual exclusivity when it comes to addressing the two problems described, namely that of infanticide and receiving high quality sperm. However, by taking the female's cycle stage into account, sperm competition can be ruled out as the primary underlying cause of copulatory calling. More precisely, females produce coital vocalizations also when they mate during non-fertile periods, which is therefore primarily aimed at attracting as many males as possible and to create parental confusion rather than obtaining high quality sperm. Females have no interest in advertising their periods of fertility, given that males would pick up on these patterns, reducing paternal confusion and causing an increase in aggressive behavior towards her offspring from other males. Such hidden fertility has been coined concealed ovulation, and is part of extended female sexuality.\n\nIn addition to the incitement of parental confusion in order to avoid infanticide, female primates that exhibit promiscuous behavior also reap non-genetic material benefits. A female that uses vocalizations after copulating with her mate attracts other males, with whom she is also likely to engage in multiple acts of mating. As a consequence male mates provide non-genetic benefits, such as food, to the female they mated with. Such vocalization-facilitated promiscuity heightens the female's reproductive success. The strategy to mate with multiple partners in order to obtain material benefits can equally be observed in non-primates.\n\nIn addition to emitting copulatory vocalizations during and after copulation (as it is mostly seen in primates), non-primate species also vocalize before engaging in mating. Vocalizations that are made prior to copulation are named mating calls. They serve as a means to advertise sexual receptivity and are predominantly used by males to attract female mates. In general, non-primates emit more calls before copulating, as exemplified by the croaks of male frogs and the melodic tweeting of song sparrows.\n\nIn regard to the calling properties, frequency analysis is typically used in research to look at the complexity of the vocalization and to distinguish between calls, which is important in determining their function. Large frequency variations have been noted between species, ranging from 14 Hz to 70,000 Hz. Mice, for instance, use 70,000 Hz calls continuously prior to copulation. They then lower the frequency down to 40,000 Hz during the copulatory act, therefore two qualitatively different calls are used for attracting mates as compared to the actual act of mating. Most of the calling in mice is done by males. They use these ultrasonic calls (> 20,000 Hz and hence not discernible by the human ear) to attract females, with the quantity of calls being related to the male's mating success, making these vocalizations a sexually selected trait.\n\nOn the other end of the spectrum, female African elephants use very low frequency calls of 14–35 Hz prior to, as well as during, copulation. Due to their low frequency these calls can be heard for several kilometers and are therefore effective in signalling receptivity. The vocalizations of female elephants are also used in order to incite mate guarding behavior in the male, which manifests itself in the form of fighting off any newly arriving mates. Not only females make use of this, as male Columbian ground squirrels have been observed to use copulatory vocalizations in order to announce their post-copulatory mate guarding to others. In addition to being used to retain the mate via mate guarding induction, female copulatory vocalizations can also be employed to achieve his departure. Red junglefowls, for instance, utilize calls in order to prevent or end unwanted copulations by attracting another high-ranking male fowl. Further effects of female calling on male's behavior are illustrated by spiders that have been shown to stridulate before copulation to inform males of sexual receptivity as well as during intercourse in order to influence male genitalic movements.\n\nMoreover, attracting new mates by calling out during copulation can entail many benefits for the female. Female crickets which mate with multiple partners receive a greater number of nuptial gifts, causing them to lay a larger quantity of eggs, hence increasing their reproductive success.\n\nTheories are more diverse in regard to women’s sexual vocalizing. On the one hand, researchers have noted some apparently communicative patterns in women’s copulatory vocalizations that suggest some parallels with those of other primates (including an invitation to sperm competition, given that female sexual vocalizations, like those of other primates, serve as \"copulation calls\" noticeable to other men and exciting to them if overheard). One study, for instance, has noted that female sexual vocalizations tend to become more intense as she approaches orgasm; at orgasm her vocalization tends to become very rapid, with a regular rhythm that includes equal note lengths and intervals between notes, which male vocalization typically lacks. This is especially frequent when her orgasm occurs during penile-vaginal intercourse. By exciting her partner with her vocalizations and bringing about his orgasm at that point, she helps ensure that the seminal pool is available for her cervix to dip into as her vagina relaxes after her orgasm. Copulatory vocalizations may also be a type of mate retention behaviour. One study found that women who perceived a high risk of infidelity in their relationship were more likely to utilize copulatory vocalizations in order to fake an orgasm, along with other mate retention behaviours.\n\nOn the other hand, recent studies have indicated that most copulatory vocalizations in women do not accompany their own orgasm, but rather their partner’s ejaculation. The study showed that the man typically finds the woman’s vocalization arousing and highly exciting, and that the woman herself is aware of this. Most women in the study, furthermore, indicated that they vocalized during intercourse to make their man ejaculate more quickly, or to boost his enjoyment or self-esteem, or both. A correlation has been found between the frequency of vocalizations and sexual satisfaction for both men and women.\n\nThe reasons that women gave for wanting to force a quick ejaculation include the alleviation of the female's pain, fatigue, or even boredom, or simply to stay within some imposed time restriction for sexual activity. Reasons for wanting to boost the male self-esteem included reinforcing the pair bond that intercourse helps to strengthen, and thus reducing emotional and sexual infidelity and abandonment. The researchers note that all of these goals are apparently congruent with female copulatory vocalizations in non-human primates.\n\nIt is also possible that some vocalizations are due to hyperventilation. Both men and women can experience hyperventilation during sexual arousal, which can involve involuntary vocalizations.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2695704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2695704", "title": "Foramen ovale (heart)", "text": "Foramen ovale (heart)\n\nIn the fetal heart, the foramen ovale (), also foramen Botalli, ostium secundum of Born or falx septi, allows blood to enter the left atrium from the right atrium. It is one of two fetal cardiac shunts, the other being the ductus arteriosus (which allows blood that still escapes to the right ventricle to bypass the pulmonary circulation). Another similar adaptation in the fetus is the ductus venosus. In most individuals, the foramen ovale closes at birth. It later forms the fossa ovalis.\n\nThe foramen ovale () forms in the late fourth week of gestation, as a small passageway between the septum secundum the ostium secundum. Initially the atria are separated from one another by the septum primum except for a small opening below the septum, the ostium primum. As the septum primum grows, the ostium primum narrows and eventually closes. Before it does so, bloodflow from the inferior vena cava wears down a portion of the septum primum, forming the ostium secundum. Some embryologists postulate that the ostium secundum may be formed through programmed cell death.\n\nThe ostium secundum provides communication between the atria after the ostium primum closes completely. Subsequently, a second wall of tissue, the septum secundum, grows over the ostium secundum in the right atrium. Blood then only passes from the right to left atrium by way of a small passageway in the septum secundum and then through the ostium secundum. This passageway is called the foramen ovale\".\n\nThe foramen ovale normally closes at birth. At birth, when the lungs become functional, the pulmonary vascular pressure decreases and the left atrial pressure exceeds that of the right. This forces the septum primum against the septum secundum, functionally closing the foramen ovale. In time the septa eventually fuse, leaving a remnant of the foramen ovale, the fossa ovalis.\n\nA fetus receives oxygen not from its lungs, but from the mother's oxygen-rich blood via the placenta. Oxygenated blood from the placenta travels through the umbilical cord to the right atrium of the fetal heart. As the fetal lungs are non-functional at this time, it is more efficient for the blood to bypass them. This is accomplished through 2 cardiac shunts. The first is the foramen ovale which shunts blood from the right atrium to the left atrium. The second is the ductus arteriosus which shunts blood from the pulmonary artery (which, after birth, carries blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs) to the descending aorta.these oval are close after 3month of born baby and in another condition those oval does not close\n\nIn about 25% of adults the foramen ovale does not close completely, but remains as a small patent foramen ovale (\"PFO\"). In most of these individuals, the PFO causes no problems and remains undetected throughout life.\n\nPFO has long been studied because of its role in paradoxical embolism (an embolism that travels from the venous side to the arterial side). This may lead to a stroke or transient ischemic attack. Transesophageal echocardiography is considered the most accurate investigation to demonstrate a patent foramen ovale. A patent foramen ovale may also be an incidental finding.\n\n"}
{"id": "17051515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17051515", "title": "Grisel's syndrome", "text": "Grisel's syndrome\n\nGrisel’s syndrome is a non-traumatic subluxation of the atlanto-axial joint caused by inflammation of the adjacent tissues. This is a rare disease that usually affects children. Progressive throat and neck pain and neck stiffness can be followed by neurologic symptoms such as pain or numbness radiating to arms (radiculopathies). In extreme cases, the condition can lead to quadriplegia and even death from acute respiratory failure. The condition often follows soft tissue inflammation in the neck such as in cases of upper respiratory tract infections, peritonsillar or retropharyngeal abscesses. Post-operative inflammation after certain procedures such as adenoidectomy can also lead to this condition in susceptible individuals such as those with Down's syndrome.\n\nPathophysiology of this disease consists of relaxation of the transverse ligament of the atlanto-axial joint.\n\nDiagnosis can be established using plain film x-rays as well as CT scan of the neck/cervical spine. Children with Down's syndrome have inherently lax ligaments making them susceptible to this condition. In select cases, these children may require pre-operative imaging to assess the risk for complications after procedures such as adenoidectomy.\n\nTreatment includes anti-inflammatory medications and immobilization of the neck in addition to treatment of the offending infectious cause (if any) with appropriate antibiotics. Early treatment is crucial to prevent long-term sequelae. Surgical fusion may be required for residual instability of the joint.\n"}
{"id": "3906493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3906493", "title": "Gunasagaran Gounder", "text": "Gunasagaran Gounder\n\nOn 19 May 2000, he was among the 43 members of the People's Coalition Government, led by Mahendra Chaudhry, taken hostage by George Speight and his band of rebel Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF) soldiers from the Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit. He was released on 13 July 2000 after 56 days of captivity.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2006, he represented the Nadi Rural Indian Communal Constituency, one of 19 reserved for Indo-Fijians, which he held for the Fiji Labour Party (FLP) in the parliamentary elections of 2001 with almost 69 percent of the vote.\n\nIn 2003, Goundar was offered the portfolio of Minister for Health Promotion, together with 13 other FLP parliamentarians who were offered cabinet positions by the Prime Minister, Laisenia Qarase but the FLP refused to accept this offer.\n\nAt the 2006 general election, Gounder transferred to the neighbouring Nadi Urban Indian Communal Constituency and held it for the FLP with more than 76 percent of the vote. He was subsequently named as one of nine FLP Ministers in the multi-party Cabinet that was formed and served in the Cabinet as Minister for Curative Health Services.\n\nGounder's political career was ended by the military coup that took place on 5 December 2006.\n"}
{"id": "19028088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19028088", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Jordan", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Jordan\n\nJordan has low HIV/AIDS prevalence, but if preventive measures are not implemented, HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases could increase or re-emerge and have significant social and economic consequences.\n\nIn 2007, there were an estimated 380,000 people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in the region, according to UNAIDS. Although figures are low compared with southern Africa or Asia, they are still a cause for alarm, particularly since they are rising rapidly, especially among high-risk groups, such as injecting drug users (IDUs) and vulnerable youth. Systematic monitoring of the epidemic, however, is far from complete. Surveillance systems remain inadequate in their coverage of at-risk groups and thus fail to reflect risk behaviors or provide incidence and prevalence rates.\n\nIn addition to weak surveillance, the adoption of preventive practices is very limited, the participation of PLWHA and civil society in the HIV/AIDS response is still nascent, and despite some progress, general attitudes, institutions, and laws often do not facilitate implementation of an expanded response. The first step in addressing the spread of HIV/AIDS is recognizing the presence of the disease and the sociocultural, political, and economic patterns that fuel and bear the burden of its impact.\n\nAlthough the Ministry of Health (MOH) reported that 550 cases of HIV/AIDS were diagnosed in Jordan as of December 2007, the actual number is thought to be much higher due to under-reporting. For those cases diagnosed, the routes of transmission included 16.5 percent through blood and blood products, 60 percent through sexual transmission, and 3.3 percent through injection drug use. Perinatal HIV transmission accounted for 1.5 percent, and 18.2 percent of cases were of unknown transmission route. In addition, a significant number of diagnosed HIV/AIDS cases are from foreigners in Jordan (185 Jordanians and 365 non-Jordanians). Since the first case of HIV/AIDS in Jordan was diagnosed in 1986, 85 Jordanians have died of AIDS. Little is known about HIV prevalence rates in high-risk populations in Jordan.\n\nA 2003 assessment conducted of about 1,200 women presenting to obstetrics and gynecological clinics in urban centers in Amman, Zarka, and Rusaifah showed a prevalence of gonorrhea of 0.7 percent, chlamydial infection of 1.2 percent, trichomoniasis of 1.2 percent, bacterial vaginosis of 5.4 percent, and candidiasis of 19.1 percent. Regional variations indicate that rates are much higher in some sites than in others. No syphilis infection was identified.\n\nStigma and discrimination against PLWHA prevails, as 29 percent of ever-married women surveyed in the 2002 Demographic and Health Survey were unwilling to care for PLWHA at home, while 63.5 percent of young people responding to a knowledge, attitude, practice, and behavior study believed that AIDS patients should be isolated.\n\nJordan’s cultural sensitivities pose the greatest threat to the country’s low prevalence. Because of difficulties in discussing sexual matters, many Jordanians still harbor misconceptions about HIV/AIDS and PLWHA. A 2005 study of the general population (USAID/JHU/HCP: 2005 Communication Partnership for Family Health Baseline Survey, Key Results) found that talking about HIV/AIDS is still taboo and that PLWHA still face stigma and discrimination. For instance, 65 percent of women and men said people with the AIDS virus should not be allowed to work with others in shops, offices, or on farms, even if they are not feeling sick. Many people responding to the survey did not understand how to prevent HIV/AIDS and did not know that condoms can be used for this purpose.\n\nAt an estimated two new cases of tuberculosis (TB) per 100,000 people (WHO 2005), TB incidence in Jordan is relatively low. Currently, fewer than 1 percent of adult TB patients are HIV-positive. However, continued monitoring is necessary because an increase in the incidence of HIV-TB co-infection could add to the complexity of fighting both diseases in Jordan.\n\nJordan’s national response to HIV/AIDS is characterized by strong political commitment to addressing HIV. The response is managed through the MOH National AIDS Program (NAP) and includes the formation of a National AIDS Committee and the appointment of an AIDS program manager. The MOH\ncontinues to support the national blood transfusion service, mandatory HIV testing, strong control measures for foreigners who reside in Jordan, and provision of antiretroviral (ARV) drugs for Jordanians who test HIV-positive. There are currently 12 part-time focal point persons who are responsible for HIV/AIDS in all governorates of the country.\n\nIn 2005, Jordan launched the National HIV/AIDS Strategy (2005–2009), outlining the key goals, objectives, and initiatives for the response. The key goal is to maintain low HIV prevalence among the population and all vulnerable sub-populations of Jordan.\n\nJordan has received funding from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to strengthen and expand existing HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support activities since 2003. In July 2007, the MOH was granted $1.25 million from the Global Fund to maintain low HIV prevalence among its population.\n"}
{"id": "24987493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24987493", "title": "Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration", "text": "Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration\n\nThere were a number of different health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration. Key reforms address cost and coverage and include obesity, prevention and treatment of chronic conditions, defensive medicine or tort reform, incentives that reward more care instead of better care, redundant payment systems, tax policy, rationing, a shortage of doctors and nurses, intervention vs. hospice, fraud, and use of imaging technology, among others.\n\nThe first of these reform proposals to be passed by the United States Congress is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which originated in the Senate and was later passed by the House of Representatives in amended form on March 21, 2010 (with a vote of 219–212). President Obama signed the reforms into law on March 23, 2010. Reuters and CNN summarized the reforms and the year in which they take effect.\n\nA variety of specific types of reform have been suggested to improve the United States health care system. These range from increased use of health care technology through changing the anti-trust rules governing health insurance companies and tort-reform to rationing of care. Different overall strategies have been suggested as well.\n\nThe Institute of Medicine reported in September 2012 that approximately $750B per year in U.S. health care costs are avoidable or wasted. This included: unnecessary services ($210 billion annually); inefficient delivery of care ($130 billion); excess administrative costs ($190 billion); inflated prices ($105 billion); prevention failures ($55 billion), and fraud ($75 billion).\n\nDuring a June 2009 speech, President Barack Obama outlined his strategy for reform. He mentioned electronic record-keeping, preventing expensive conditions, reducing obesity, refocusing doctor incentives from quantity of care to quality, bundling payments for treatment of conditions rather than specific services, better identifying and communicating the most cost-effective treatments, and reducing defensive medicine.\n\nPresident Obama further described his plan in a September 2009 speech to a joint session of Congress. His plan mentions: deficit neutrality; not allowing insurance companies to discriminate based on pre-existing conditions; capping out of pocket expenses; creation of an insurance exchange for individuals and small businesses; tax credits for individuals and small companies; independent commissions to identify fraud, waste and abuse; and malpractice reform projects, among other topics.\n\nIn November 2009, then-OMB Director Peter Orszag described aspects of the Obama administration's strategy during an interview: \"In order to help contain [ Medicare and Medicaid ] cost growth over the long term, we need a new health care system that has digitized information...in which that information is used to assess what’s working and what’s not more intelligently, and in which we’re paying for quality rather than quantity while also encouraging prevention and wellness.\" He also argued for bundling payments and accountable care organizations, which reward doctors for teamwork and patient outcomes.\n\nMayo Clinic President and CEO Denis Cortese has advocated an overall strategy to guide reform efforts. He argued that the U.S. has an opportunity to redesign its healthcare system and that there is a wide consensus that reform is necessary. He articulated four \"pillars\" of such a strategy:\n\nWriting in \"The New Yorker\", surgeon Atul Gawande further distinguished between the delivery system, which refers to how medical services are provided to patients, and the payment system, which refers to how payments for services are processed. He argued that reform of the delivery system is critical to getting costs under control, but that payment system reform (e.g., whether the government or private insurers process payments) is considerably less important yet gathers a disproportionate share of attention. Gawande argued that dramatic improvements and savings in the delivery system will take \"at least a decade.\" He recommended changes that address the over-utilization of healthcare; the refocusing of incentives on value rather than profits; and comparative analysis of the cost of treatment across various healthcare providers to identify best practices. He argued this would be an iterative, empirical process and should be administered by a \"national institute for healthcare delivery\" to analyze and communicate improvement opportunities.\n\nA report published by the Commonwealth Fund in December 2007 examined 15 federal policy options and concluded that, taken together, they had the potential to reduce future increases in health care spending by $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years. These options included increased use of health information technology, research and incentives to improve medical decision making, reduced tobacco use and obesity, reforming the payment of providers to encourage efficiency, limiting the tax federal exemption for health insurance premiums, and reforming several market changes such as resetting the benchmark rates for Medicare Advantage plans and allowing the Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices. The authors based their modeling on the effect of combining these changes with the implementation of universal coverage. The authors concluded that there are no magic bullets for controlling health care costs, and that a multifaceted approach will be needed to achieve meaningful progress.\n\nDuring February 2010, President Obama updated his reform proposal, with modifications to the bills that had passed as of that time.\n\nHealth spending accounted for 17.6% of GDP in the United States in 2010, down slightly from 2009 (17.7%) and by far the highest share in the OECD, and a full eight percentage points higher than the OECD average of 9.5%. Following the United States were the Netherlands (at 12.0% of GDP), and France and Germany (both at 11.6% of GDP). The United States spent $8,233 on health per capita in 2010, two-and-a-half times more than the OECD average of $3,268 (adjusted for purchasing power parity). Following the United States were Norway and Switzerland which spent over $5,250 per capita. Americans spent more than twice as much as relatively rich European countries such as France, Sweden and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe annual rate of cost increases slowed during 2010 and 2011. The causes are disputed, ranging from recession-related delays in visiting doctors to more long-term trends in moderating insurance premiums and reduced spending on structures and equipment.\n\nThe Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reported in 2013 that the rate of increase in annual healthcare costs has fallen since 2002. However, costs per capita continue to rise. Per capita cost increases have averaged 5.4% annually since 2000. Costs relative to GDP have risen from 13.8% in 2000 to 17.9% by 2009, but remained at that level in 2010 and 2011.\n\nSeveral studies have attempted to explain the reduction in the rate of annual increase. Reasons include, among others: \n\nIncreasing healthcare costs also contribute to wage stagnation, as corporations pay for benefits rather than wages. Bloomberg reported in January 2013: \"If there’s a consensus among health economists about anything, it’s that employer-provided health benefits come out of wages. If health insurance were cheaper, or the marketplace were structured so that most people bought health coverage for themselves rather than getting it with their jobs, people would be paid more and raises would be higher.\"\n\nPresident Obama has proposed an \"Independent Medicare Advisory Panel\" (IMAC) to make recommendations on Medicare reimbursement policy and other reforms. Comparative effectiveness research would be one of many tools used by the IMAC. The IMAC concept was endorsed in a letter from several prominent healthcare policy experts, as summarized by OMB Director Peter Orszag:\n\nBoth Mayo Clinic CEO Dr. Denis Cortese and Surgeon/Author Atul Gawande have argued that such panel(s) will be critical to reform of the delivery system and improving value. Washington Post columnist David Ignatius has also recommended that President Obama engage someone like Cortese to have a more active role in driving reform efforts.\n\nOverutilization refers to when a patient overuses a doctor or to a doctor ordering more tests or services than may be required to address a particular condition effectively. Several treatment alternatives may be available for a given medical condition, with significantly different costs yet no statistical difference in outcome. Such scenarios offer the opportunity to maintain or improve the quality of care, while significantly reducing costs, through comparative effectiveness research. According to economist Peter A. Diamond and research cited by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the cost of healthcare per person in the U.S. also varies significantly by geography and medical center, with little or no statistical difference in outcome. Comparative effectiveness research has shown that significant cost reductions are possible. Former OMB Director Peter Orszag stated: \"Nearly thirty percent of Medicare's costs could be saved without negatively affecting health outcomes if spending in high- and medium-cost areas could be reduced to the level of low-cost areas.\"\n\nGawande wrote that Obamacare contains a variety of pilot programs that may have a significant impact on cost and quality over the long-run, although these have not been factored into CBO cost estimates. He stated these pilot programs cover nearly every idea healthcare experts advocate, except malpractice/tort reform. He described how the U.S. faced a cost problem with agriculture, with nearly 40% of household disposable income absorbed by food costs in 1900. With a central oversight panel (the U.S.D.A.) and many pilot programs, the U.S. was able to vastly improve the productivity of its food production and reduce these costs over time. He wrote:\n\nIncreased use of preventive care (e.g., regular doctor visits) is one way of reducing health care spending. Official budget scores of universal health care proposals state that most of its savings would be from providing preventative care to the uninsured. Canadian physicians, who provide universal health care including preventative care, found that they could lower their total health care expenditures by 40% simply by increasing appropriate and reducing inappropriate preventative care measures. A single uninsured cancer patient diagnosed at stage four can incur over half a million dollars in hospital bills in a few months, which must be borne by all other health care consumers, when the same diagnosis at stage one with preventative screening would cost much less. However, preventive care is typically provided to many people who would never become ill, and for those who would have become ill, it is partially offset by the health care costs during additional years of life.\n\nPreventing obesity and overweight conditions presents a significant opportunity to reduce costs. The Centers for Disease Control reported that approximately 9% of healthcare costs in 1998 were attributable to overweight and obesity, or as much as $92.6 billion in 2002 dollars. Nearly half of these costs were paid for by the government via Medicare or Medicaid. However, by 2008 the CDC estimated these costs had nearly doubled to $147 billion. The CDC identified a series of expensive conditions more likely to occur due to obesity. The CDC released a series of strategies to prevent obesity and overweight, including: making healthy foods and beverages more available; supporting healthy food choices; encouraging kids to be more active; and creating safe communities to support physical activity. An estimated 25.6% of U.S. adults in 2007 were obese, versus 23.9% in 2005. State obesity rates ranged from 18.7% to 30%. Obesity rates were roughly equal among men and women. Some have proposed a so-called \"fat tax\" to provide incentives for healthier behavior, either by levying the tax on products (such as soft drinks) that are thought to contribute to obesity, or to individuals based on body measures, as they do in Japan. A study released in October, 2010 had a similar cost estimate, of $168 billion, nearly 17% of U.S. medical costs. This is an estimated $2,400 per obese person. The study was performed by researchers at Cornell and Emory universities.\n\nHowever, in contrast to yearly costs, lifetime costs can be highest among healthy people, who live longer. One study in the Netherlands indicated that: \"Until the age of 56, yearly health costs were highest for obese people and lowest for healthy-living people. At older ages, the highest yearly costs were incurred by the smoking group. However, because of differences in life expectancy (life expectancy at age 20 was 5 years less for the obese group, and 8 years less for the smoking group, compared to the healthy-living group), total lifetime health spending was greatest for the healthy-living people, lowest for the smokers, and intermediate for the obese people.\"\n\nDuring April 2012, nine physician groups identified 45 tests that were commonly used but that provided no proven benefits to patients or could actually be harmful. This was done at the urging of a Dr. Howard Brody, who published this recommendation in a 2010 article. The nine groups (medical societies) developed the lists after months of analyses and reviews of the medical literature by expert committees. The \"New York Times\" editorial board wrote: \"Eliminating needless care is not rationing. It is sound medicine and sound economics.\"\n\nOne July 2012 proposal advocated that consumers of healthcare always have \"skin in the game\" such that their costs rise as more services are provided.\n\nThe CBO reported in May 2005: \"Medicare spending is highly concentrated, with a small number of beneficiaries accounting for a large proportion of the Medicare program's annual expenditures. In 2001, the costliest 5 percent of beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare's fee-for-service (FFS) sector accounted for 43 percent of total spending, while the costliest 25 percent...accounted for fully 85 percent of spending...These high-cost beneficiaries, compared with beneficiaries in the bottom 75 percent in terms of their spending, were slightly older, more likely to suffer from chronic conditions, such as coronary artery disease and diabetes, and more likely to die in a given year.\" \n\nRep. Paul Ryan (R) has proposed the \"Roadmap for America's Future\", which is a series of budgetary reforms. His January 2010 version of the plan includes the transition of Medicare to a voucher system, meaning individuals would receive a voucher which could be used to purchase health insurance in the private market. This would not affect those near retirement or currently enrolled in Medicare. A series of graphs and charts summarizing the impact of the plan are included. Economists have both praised and criticized particular features of the plan. The CBO also partially scored the bill.\n\nMedicaid recipients could also be provided with tax credits or subsidies to purchase their own private insurance, reducing incentives for them to remain in the program.\n\nSome conservatives advocate free market reforms such as breaking up state monopolies on insurance and licensing and allowing consumers to purchase health insurance licensed by other states.\n\nThe GAO reported in 2002 (using 2000 data) the following statistics regarding insurance competition in state markets: \"The median number of licensed carriers in the small group market per state was 28, with a range from 4 in Hawaii to 77 in Indiana. The median market share of the largest carrier was about 33 percent, with a range from about 14 percent in Texas to about 89 percent in North Dakota. The five largest carriers, when combined, represented three-quarters or more of the market in 19 of the 34 states supplying information, and they represented more than 90 percent in 7 of these states. Twenty-five of 37 states supplying information identified a Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) carrier as the largest carrier offering health insurance in the small group market, and in all but one of the remaining 12 states, a BCBS carrier was among the five largest. The median market share of all the BCBS carriers in the 34 states supplying information was about 34 percent, with a range from about 3 percent in Vermont to about 89 percent in North Dakota; in 9 of these states BCBS carriers combined for half or more of the market.\"\n\nThe GAO reported in 2008 (using 2007 data for the most part) the following statistics: \"The median number of licensed carriers in the small group market per state was 27. The median market share of the largest carrier in the small group market was about\n47 percent, with a range from about 21 percent in Arizona to about 96 percent in Alabama. In 31 of the 39 states supplying market share information, the top carrier had a market share of a third or more. The five largest carriers in the small group market, when combined, represented three quarters or more of the market in 34 of the 39 states supplying this information, and they\nrepresented 90 percent or more in 23 of these states. Thirty-six of the 44 states supplying information on the top carrier identified a Blue Cross and Blue Shield (BCBS) carrier as the largest carrier, and in all but 1 of the remaining 8 states, a BCBS carrier was among the five largest carriers. The median market share of all the BCBS carriers in the 38 states supplying this\ninformation was about 51 percent, with a range of less than 5 percent in Vermont and Wisconsin and more than 90 percent in Alabama and North Dakota...the median market share of all the BCBS carriers in 38 states reporting this information in 2008 was about 51 percent, compared to the 44 percent reported in 2005 and the 34 percent reported in 2002 for the 34 states supplying information in each of these years.\"\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman argued that allowing interstate competition would create a \"race to the bottom,\" in which \"[t]he states with the weakest regulations – for example, those that allow insurance companies to deny coverage to victims of domestic violence – would set the standards for the nation as a whole. The result would be to afflict the afflicted, to make the lives of Americans with pre-existing conditions even harder.\"\n\nCritics have argued that the healthcare system has several incentives that drive costly behavior. Two of these include:\n\nGawande argued: \"Our fee-for-service system, doling out separate payments for everything and everyone involved in a patient’s care, has all the wrong incentives: it rewards doing more over doing right, it increases paperwork and the duplication of efforts, and it discourages clinicians from working together for the best possible results.\"\n\nGawande quoted one surgeon who stated: \"We took a wrong turn when doctors stopped being doctors and became businessmen.\" Gawande identified various revenue-enhancing approaches and profit-based incentives that doctors were using in high-cost areas that may have caused the over-utilization of healthcare. He contrasted this with lower-cost areas that used salaried doctors and other techniques to reward value, referring to this as a \"battle for the soul of American medicine.\"\n\nOne option involves an integrated series of healthcare providers charging a premium or flat fee to patients to participate in the network, rather than a fee for each individual service. This modifies the doctor's incentive from ordering more services to solving the problem efficiently (i.e., more care to more cost-efficient care). The provider network would also purchase insurance for catastrophic (extremely high cost) cases.\n\nCritics have argued that medical malpractice costs (insurance and lawsuits, for example) are significant and should be addressed via tort reform.\n\nHow much these costs are is a matter of debate. Some have argued that malpractice lawsuits are a major driver of medical costs. A 2005 study estimated the cost around 0.2%, and in 2009 insurer WellPoint Inc. said \"liability wasn’t driving premiums.\" A 2006 study found neurologists in the United States ordered more tests in theoretical clinical situations posed than their German counterparts; U.S. clinicians are more likely to fear litigation which may be due to the teaching of defensive strategies which are reported more often in U.S. teaching programs. Counting both direct and indirect costs, other studies estimate the total cost of malpractice \"is linked to\" between 5% and 10% of total U.S. medical costs.\n\nA 2004 report by the Congressional Budget Office put medical malpractice costs at 2 percent of U.S. health spending and \"even significant reductions\" would do little to reduce the growth of health care expenses. A 2009 CBO report estimated that approximately $54 billion could be saved over ten years by limiting medical malpractice lawsuits. A tort reform package that includes caps on jury awards of $500,000 for punitive damages and $250,000 for \"pain and suffering\" damages would lower liability insurance premiums by about 10 percent.\n\nIn August 2009, physician and former Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean explained why tort reform was omitted from the Congressional health care reform bills then under consideration: \"When you go to pass a really enormous bill like that, the more stuff you put in it, the more enemies you make, right?...And the reason tort reform is not on the bill is because the people who wrote it did not want to take on the trial lawyers in addition to everybody else they were taking on. That is the plain and simple truth.\"\n\nOthers have argued that even successful tort reform might not lead to lower aggregate liability. For example, the current contingent fee system skews litigation towards high-value cases while ignoring meritorious small cases; aligning litigation more closely with merit might thus increase the number of small awards, offsetting any reduction in large awards. A New York study found that only 1.5% of hospital negligence led to claims; moreover, the CBO observed that \"health care providers are generally not exposed to the financial cost of their own malpractice risk because they carry liability insurance, and the premiums for that insurance do not reflect the records or practice styles of individual providers but more-general factors such as location and medical specialty.\" Given that total liability is small relative to the amount doctors pay in malpractice insurance premiums, alternative mechanisms have been proposed to reform malpractice insurance.\n\nIn 2004, the CBO studied restrictions on malpractice awards proposed by the George W. Bush Administration and members of Congress; CBO concluded that \"the evidence available to date does not make a strong case that restricting malpractice liability would have a significant effect, either positive or negative, on economic efficiency.\" Empirical data and reporting have since shown that some of the highest medical costs are now in states where tort reform had already caused malpractice premiums and lawsuits to drop substantially; unnecessary and injurious procedures are instead caused by a system \"often driven to maximize revenues over patient needs.\"\n\nOne option proposed includes specialized healthcare courts rather than the jury system. Such courts exist in other disciplines. In administrative health courts, an expert judge would decide cases based on best medical practice, writing an opinion that is subject to appeal to an appellate health court. There would also be a requirement of full disclosure by hospitals, and all facts would be fed back into the health care system so providers learn from their mistakes. Such an approach has been opposed by trial lawyer lobbyists.\n\nThe U.S. is facing shortages of doctors and nurses that are projected to grow worse as America ages, which may drive up the price of these services. Writing in the \"Washington Post\", cardiologist Arthur Feldman cited various studies that indicate the U.S. is facing a \"critical\" shortage of doctors, including an estimated 1,300 general surgeons by 2010.\n\nThe American Academy of Family Physicians predicts a shortage of 40,000 primary care doctors (including family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics and obstetrics/gynecology) by 2020. The number of medical students choosing the primary care specialty has dropped by 52% since 1997. Currently, only 2% of medical school graduates choose primary care as a career. An amendment to the Senate health bill includes $2 billion in funds over 10 years to create 2,000 new residency training slots geared toward primary care medicine and general surgery. Writing in Forbes, a physician argued that this is a \"tiny band-aid at best,\" advocating full loan repayments and guaranteed positions upon graduation.\n\nPhysicians wrote a NYT Op Ed in May 2011 stating that doctors typically graduate with an average of $155,000 in debt from Medical school, with over 80% owing debt of some type. This drives some doctors into higher paying specialties as opposed to primary care. As specialists, they prescribe more expensive treatments. About $2.5 billion/year would be required to make Medical school free, which the writers estimated at one-thousandth the total annual healthcare costs. Making medical school free would help address the shortage in their view.\n\nThe U.S. had 2.3 doctors per 1,000 people in 2002, ranking 52nd. Germany and France had approximately 3.4 and ranked in the top 25. The OECD average in 2008 was 3.1 doctors per 1,000 people, while the U.S. had 2.4.\n\nThe American Association of Colleges of Nurses cited studies estimating that a shortage of registered nurses would reach 230,000 by 2025 as America ages, with over 135,000 open positions during 2007. An additional 30% more nurses would have to graduate annually to keep up with demand. A study by Price Waterhouse advanced several strategies for addressing the nursing shortage, including developing more public-private partnerships, federal and state-level grants for nursing students and educators, creating healthy work environments, using technology as a training tool, and designing more flexible roles for advanced practice nurses given their increased use as primary care providers.\n\n\"Newsweek\" wrote: \"Lately, some policymakers have argued that instead of having a primary-care doctor, more people—especially young, healthy patients with simple medical needs—should see a nurse or physician assistant who administers routine care and kicks more complex problems up to a doctor when they arise. 'If you're just coming in to have your blood pressure checked and your pulse taken, you really don't need to see a doctor, and you might not need to see a nurse, either,' says David Barrett, president and CEO of the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass. \"There are three-stripe military sergeants with two-year degrees who can provide excellent primary care. There's absolutely no reason to force all primary-care providers to have an M.D.\"\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office has described how the tax treatment of insurance premiums may affect behavior:\nPeter Singer wrote in the \"New York Times\" that the current exclusion of insurance premiums from compensation represents a $200 billion subsidy for the private insurance industry and that it would likely not exist without it. In November 2009, The Economist estimated that taxing employer-provided health insurance (which is presently exempt from tax) would add $215 billion per year to federal tax revenue.\n\nEmployer-provided health insurance receives uncapped tax benefits. According to the OECD, it \"encourages the purchase of more generous insurance plans, notably plans with little cost sharing, thus exacerbating moral hazard\". Consumers want unfettered access to medical services; they also prefer to pay through insurance or tax rather than out of pocket. These two needs create cost-efficiency challenges for health care. Some studies have found no consistent and systematic relationship between the type of financing of health care and cost containment.\n\nSome have proposed an \"excise tax\" for high cost 'Cadillac' insurance plans. A study published in \"Health Affairs\" in December 2009 found that high-cost health plans do not provide unusually rich benefits to enrollees. The researchers found that only 3.7% of the variation in the cost of family coverage in employer-sponsored health plans is attributable to differences in the actuarial value of benefits. Only 6.1% of the variation is attributable to the combination of benefit design and plan type (e.g., PPO, HMO, etc.). The employer's industry and regional variations in health care cost explain part of the variation, but most is unexplained. The researchers conclude \". . . that analysts should not equate high-cost plans with Cadillac plans, . . . [w]ithout appropriate adjustments, a simple cap may exacerbate rather than ameliorate current inequities\"\n\nPremium tax subsidies to help individuals purchase their own health insurance have also been suggested as a way to increase coverage rates. Research confirms that consumers in the individual health insurance market are sensitive to price. It appears that price sensitivity varies among population subgroups and is generally higher for younger individuals and lower income individuals. However, research also suggests that subsidies alone are unlikely to solve the uninsured problem in the U.S.\n\nThe Government Accountability Office lists Medicare as a \"high-risk\" government program due to its vulnerability to improper payments. Estimates of Medicare fraud or \"improper payments\" vary. The Office of Management and Budget reported that $54 billion in \"improper payments\" were made to Medicare ($24B), Medicaid ($18B) and Medicaid Advantage ($12B) during FY2009. This was 9.4% of the $573 billion spent in these categories. GAO reported in 2000: \"The Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General has reported that $13.5 billion of processed Medicare fee-for-service claim payments for fiscal year 1999 may have been improperly paid for reasons that ranged from inadvertent error to outright fraud and abuse.\" Fewer than 5% of Medicare claims are audited. CBO reported in October 2014 that it is difficult to quantify healthcare fraud related to government programs. CBO reported that: \"According to HHS, since 2009 the HEAT Medicare task\nforce has filed criminal and civil charges against more than 1,700 defendants who falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $5.5 billion.\" However, false billing is a partial measure of fraud, as much of it is undetected.\n\nAccording to CBS News, Medicare fraud accounts for an estimated $60 billion in Medicare payments each year, and \"has become one of, if not the most profitable, crimes in America.\" Criminals set up phony companies, then invoice Medicare for fraudulent services provided to valid Medicare patients who never receive the services. These costs appear on the Medicare statements provided to Medicare card holders. The program pays out over $430 billion per year via over 1 billion claims, making enforcement challenging. Its enforcement budget is \"extremely limited\" according to one Medicare official. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in an interview: \"Clearly more auditing needs to be done and it needs to be done in real time.\" The Obama administration is providing Medicare with an additional $200 million to fight fraud as part of its stimulus package, and billions of dollars to computerize medical records and upgrade networks, which should assist Medicare in identifying fraudulent claims.\n\nDuring July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010, citing approximately $110 billion in unauthorized payments of all types, including Medicare and Medicaid. President Obama has directed his administration to reduce these payments by $50 million annually by 2012, less than 1%.\n\nReforming or restructuring the private health insurance market is often suggested as a means for achieving health care reform in the U.S. Insurance market reform has the potential to increase the number of Americans with insurance, but is unlikely to significantly reduce the rate of growth in health care spending. Careful consideration of basic insurance principles is important when considering insurance market reform, in order to avoid unanticipated consequences and ensure the long-term viability of the reformed system. According to one study conducted by the Urban Institute, if not implemented on a systematic basis with appropriate safeguards, market reform has the potential to cause more problems than it solves.\n\nSince most Americans with private coverage receive it through employer-sponsored plans, many have suggested employer \"pay or play\" requirements as a way to increase coverage levels (i.e., employers that do not provide insurance would have to pay a tax instead). However, research suggests that current pay or play proposals are limited in their ability to increase coverage among the working poor. These proposals generally exclude small firms, do not distinguish between individuals who have access to other forms of coverage and those who do not, and increase the overall compensation costs to employers.\n\nIn October 2009 the Wall Street Journal reported that while requirements to purchase health insurance were central to proposals in both the House and Senate, these coverage mandates were \"under fire from both ends of the political spectrum, with some liberals saying the penalties are too harsh for those who refuse and conservatives denouncing the whole concept.\" According to the article, however, \"[h]ealth-policy experts . . .say there is a good reason for the mandate.\" Proposed reforms would prohibit health insurers from denying coverage to individuals with pre-existing medical conditions. Insurers said that, to keep premiums from rising for everyone, it is necessary for healthier people to pay into the insurance pools to balance out the cost of these higher cost individuals.\n\nArguing against requiring individuals to buy coverage, the Cato Institute has asserted that the Massachusetts law forcing everyone to buy insurance has increased costs: \"Premiums are growing 21 to 46 percent faster than the national average, in part because Massachusetts' individual mandate has effectively outlawed affordable health plans.\" They say that \"the mandate gives politicians enormous power to dictate the content of every American's health plan – a power that health care providers inevitably capture and use to increase the required level of insurance\" and state that providers were successful in persuading legislators to include an additional 16 benefit mandates in the required benefit package during the first three years after the coverage mandate was enacted. They also say that by prohibiting the use of health status in pricing, the Massachusetts law \"further increase[s] premiums for the young and healthy\" and, as the result of adverse selection, drives more comprehensive health plans out of the market. The conclusion they draw is that \"[T]he most sweeping provision . . . is an 'individual mandate' that makes health insurance compulsory. Massachusetts shows that such a mandate would oust millions from their low-cost health plans and force them to pay higher premiums.\"\n\nWriting in the New York Times opinion blog \"Room for Debate\" the single-payer health care advocate Marcia Angell, former editor-in-chief of the New England Journal of Medicine, said that a coverage mandate would not be necessary within a single-payer system and that even within the context of current system she was \"troubled by the notion of an individual mandate.\" She described the Massachusetts mandates as \"a windfall for the insurance industry\" and wrote, \"Premiums are rising much faster than income, benefit packages are getting skimpier, and deductibles and co-payments are going up.\"\n\nIn April 2009 the Boston Globe reported that the number of people seeking emergency room care and the cost of emergency room visits increased after the 2006 mandates went into effect (comparing 2005 to 2007). The number of visits increased by 7% during that period, while costs rose by 17%. State officials cautioned that it was too early to determine if the state's new coverage mandate had failed to reduce the emergency room use, but several physicians and policymakers said that it was unlikely that a coverage mandate alone could solve the problems of emergency room crowding and overuse. In August 2009 the Boston Globe reported that Massachusetts had \"the most expensive family health insurance premiums in the country.\" Premiums in Massachusetts increased by 40 percent from 2003 to 2008, compared to a national average increase of 33%. The report did not break out the amount of the increase since 2006, but as the Massachusetts reforms are often taken as a model for national reform, \"advocates on various sides of the issue said the report underscores the urgency of including cost controls in any large-scale federal or state overhaul.\" Karen Davenport, director of health policy at the Center for American Progress, has argued that \"before making coverage mandatory, we need to reform the health insurance market, strengthen public health insurance programs, and finance premium subsidies for people who can’t afford coverage on their own.\"\n\nAddressing the issue when it was proposed in 1994, CBO wrote: \"A mandate requiring all individuals to purchase health insurance would be an unprecedented form of federal action. The government has never required people to buy any good or service as a condition of lawful residence in the United States.\" There is also disagreement as to whether federal mandates would be constitutional, and state initiatives opposing federal mandates may lead to litigation and delay.\n\nOn June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the individual mandate provision as Constitutional.\n\nPresident Barack Obama argues that U.S. healthcare is rationed, based on income, type of employment, and pre-existing medical conditions, with nearly 46 million uninsured. He argues that millions of Americans are denied coverage or face higher premiums as a result of pre-existing medical conditions.\n\nPeter Singer and David Leonhardt have each separately noted that health care rationing is not a choice, but an economic necessity. All health care resources are finite and have to be allocated in some way or other. The issue is which way is the most sensible way to do it.\n\nFormer Republican Secretary of Commerce Peter G. Peterson has also argued that some form of rationing is inevitable and desirable considering the state of U.S. finances and the trillions of dollars of unfunded Medicare liabilities. He estimated that 25–33% of healthcare services are provided to those in the last months or year of life and advocated restrictions in cases where quality of life cannot be improved. He also recommended that a budget be established for government healthcare expenses, through establishing spending caps and pay-as-you-go rules that require tax increases for any incremental spending. He has indicated that a combination of tax increases and spending cuts will be required. All of these issues would be addressed under the aegis of a fiscal reform commission.\n\nRationing by price means accepting that there is no triage according to need. Thus in the private sector it is accepted that some people get expensive surgeries such as liver transplants or non life-threatening ones such as cosmetic surgery, when others fail to get cheaper and much more cost effective care such as prenatal care, which could save the lives of many fetuses and newborn children. Some places, like Oregon for example, do explicitly ration Medicaid resources using medical priorities.\n\nPoliticians on the right tend to be fearful of democratically elected governments becoming involved in rationing decision. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-GA) argued that the reform plans supported by President Obama expand the control of government over healthcare decisions, which he referred to as a type of healthcare rationing. Senator Charles Grassley (R-IA) makes similar arguments claiming for example that people like the late Senator Edward Kennedy received health care in the U.S. that would have been denied in countries which have government controlled health care, a claim that \"The Economist\" magazine said was \"dangerous\" and went on to say that \"The reality is that America, like Britain, already makes extensive use of rationing.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office has concluded that increased use of health information technology has great potential to significantly reduce overall health care spending and realize large improvements in health care quality providing that the system is integrated. The use of health IT in an unintegrated setting will not realize all the projected savings.\n\nOne application of healthcare technology is the creation of registries or databases to relate treatments to outcomes. Useful treatments could be identified and those less useful could be avoided to reduce costs.\n\nThe payment system refers to the billing and payment for medical services, which is distinct from the delivery system through which the services are provided. The over 1,300 U.S. health insurance companies have different forms and processes for billing and reimbursement, requiring enormous costs on the part of service providers (mainly doctors and hospitals) to process payments. For example, the Cleveland Clinic, considered a low-cost, best-practices hospital system, has 1,400 billing clerks to support 2,000 doctors. Further, the insurance companies have their own overhead functions and profit margins, much of which could be eliminated with a single payer system. Economist Paul Krugman estimated in 2005 that converting from the current private insurance system to a single-payer system would enable $200 billion per year in cost savings, primarily via insurance company overhead. One advocacy group estimated savings as high as $400 billion annually for 2009 and beyond.\n\nProponents of health care reform argue that moving to a single-payer system would reallocate the money currently spent on the administrative overhead required to run the hundreds of insurance companies in the U.S. to provide universal care. An often-cited study by Harvard Medical School and the Canadian Institute for Health Information determined that some 31 percent of U.S. health care dollars, or more than $1,000 per person per year, went to health care administrative costs. Other estimates are lower. One study of the billing and insurance-related (BIR) costs borne not only by insurers but also by physicians and hospitals found that BIR among insurers, physicians, and hospitals in California represented 20–22% of privately insured spending in California acute care settings.\n\nAdvocates of \"single-payer\" argue that shifting the U.S. to a single-payer health care system would provide universal coverage, give patients free choice of providers and hospitals, and guarantee comprehensive coverage and equal access for all medically necessary procedures, without increasing overall spending. Shifting to a single-payer system, by this view, would also eliminate oversight by managed care reviewers, restoring the traditional doctor-patient relationship. Among the organizations in support of single-payer health care in the U.S. is Physicians for a National Health Program (PNHP), an organization of some 17,000 American physicians, medical students, and health professionals.\n\nDuring 2009, Medicare spent $11.7 billion for medical imaging, such as CT scans and MRI's. From 2005 to 2009, usage of scans grew at an annual rate of 14%, but may have slowed since due to a combination of changing incentives and saturation of usage. Initially, demanding patients insisted on scans; doctors feared malpractice suits if they refused; and doctors and hospitals wanted to maximize revenues. One study indicated that changing incentives may have reduced cost growth. From 2006 to 2010, the share of workers with deductibles exceeding $1,000 grew from 10 percent to 27 percent. Increased out-of-pocket expenses have made patients and physicians more cost conscious. Further, a combination of prior notification, higher patient co-payments and restrained reimbursements may have contributed to slowing cost growth.\n\nInternational comparisons of healthcare have found that the United States spends more per-capita than other similarly developed nations but falls below similar countries in various health metrics, suggesting inefficiency and waste. In addition, the United States has significant underinsurance and significant impending unfunded liabilities from its aging demographic and its social insurance programs Medicare and Medicaid (Medicaid provides free long-term care to the elderly poor). The fiscal and human impact of these issues have motivated reform proposals.\n\nAccording to 2009 World Bank statistics, the U.S. had the highest healthcare costs relative to the size of the economy (GDP) in the world, even though estimated 50.2 million citizens (approximately 15.6% of the September 2011 estimated population of 312 million) lacked insurance. In March 2010, billionaire Warren Buffett commented that the high costs paid by U.S. companies for their employees' health care put them at a competitive disadvantage.\nFurther, an estimated 77 million Baby Boomers are reaching retirement age, which combined with significant annual increases in healthcare costs per person will place enormous budgetary strain on U.S. state and federal governments, particularly through Medicare and Medicaid spending (Medicaid provides long-term care for the elderly poor). Maintaining the long-term fiscal health of the U.S. federal government is significantly dependent on healthcare costs being controlled.\n\nIn addition, the number of employers who offer health insurance has declined and costs for employer-paid health insurance are rising: from 2001 to 2007, premiums for family coverage increased 78%, while wages rose 19% and prices rose 17%, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Even for those who are employed, the private insurance in the US varies greatly in its coverage; one study by the Commonwealth Fund published in Health Affairs estimated that 16 million U.S. adults were underinsured in 2003. The underinsured were significantly more likely than those with adequate insurance to forgo health care, report financial stress because of medical bills, and experience coverage gaps for such items as prescription drugs. The study found that underinsurance disproportionately affects those with lower incomes — 73% of the underinsured in the study population had annual incomes below 200% of the federal poverty level. However, a study published by the Kaiser Family Foundation in 2008 found that the typical large employer preferred provider organization (PPO) plan in 2007 was more generous than either Medicare or the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program Standard Option. One indicator of the consequences of Americans' inconsistent health care coverage is a study in \"Health Affairs\" that concluded that half of personal bankruptcys involved medical bills, although other sources dispute this.\n\nThere are health losses from insufficient health insurance. A 2009 study found more than 44,800 excess deaths annually in the United States due to Americans lacking health insurance. More broadly, estimates of the total number of people in the United States, whether insured or uninsured, who die because of lack of medical care were estimated in a 1997 analysis to be nearly 100,000 per year. A study of the effects of the Massachusetts universal health care law (which took effect in 2006) found a 3% drop in mortality among people 20–64 years old - 1 death per 830 people with insurance. Other studies, just as those examining the randomized distribution of Medicaid insurance to low-income people in Oregon in 2008, found no change in death rate.\n\nThe cost of insurance has been a primary motivation in the reform of the US healthcare system, and many different explanations have been proposed in the reasons for high insurance costs and how to remedy them. One critique and motivation for healthcare reform has been the development of the medical–industrial complex. This relates to moral arguments for health care reform, framing healthcare as a social good, one that is fundamentally immoral to deny to people based on economic status. The motivation behind healthcare reform in response to the medical-industrial complex also stems from issues of social inequity, promotion of medicine over preventative care. The medical-industrial complex, defined as a network of health insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies, and the like, plays a role in the complexity of the US insurance market and a fine line between government and industry within it. Likewise, critiques of insurance markets being conducted under a capitalistic, free-market model also include that medical solutions, as opposed to preventative healthcare measures, are promoted to maintain this medical-industrial complex. Arguments for a market-based approach to health insurance include the Grossman model, which is based on an ideal competitive model, but others have critiqued this, arguing that fundamentally, this means that people in higher socioeconomic levels will receive a better quality of healthcare.\n\nUninsured rate\n\nAnother concern is the rate of uninsured people in the US. In June 2014, Gallup–Healthways Well–Being conducted a survey and found that the uninsured rate is going down. 13.4 percent of U.S. adults are uninsured in 2014. This is a decrease from the percentage at 17.1 percent in January 2014 and translates to roughly 10 million to 11 million individuals who gained coverage. The survey also looked at the major demographic groups and found each is making progress towards getting health insurance. However, Hispanics, who have the highest uninsured rate of any racial or ethnic group, are lagging in their progress. Under the new health care reform, Latinos were expected to be major beneficiaries of the new health care law. Gallup found that the biggest drop in the uninsured rate (2.8 percentage points) was among households making less than $36,000 a year.\n\nIn December 2011 the outgoing Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Donald Berwick, asserted that 20% to 30% of health care spending is waste. He listed five causes for the waste: (1) overtreatment of patients, (2) the failure to coordinate care, (3) the administrative complexity of the health care system, (4) burdensome rules and (5) fraud.\n\nAn estimated 3%–10% of all health care expenditures in the U.S. are fraudulent. In 2011, Medicare and Medicaid made $65 billion in improper payments (including both error and fraud). Government efforts to reduce fraud include $4.2 billion in fraudulent payments recovered by the Department of Justice and the FBI in 2012, longer jail sentences specified by the Affordable Care Act, and Senior Medicare Patrols—volunteers trained to identify and report fraud.\n\nThe \"International Federation of Health Plans\" provides a comparative annual survey of costs for drugs, devices and medical services across countries. According to their 2013 report, the U.S. pays considerably more than other countries in 22 of 23 categories. For example, the average cost of a hip replacement in the U.S. was $40,364, with other countries ranging from $3,365 (Argentina) to $27,810 (Australia). An MRI averaged $1,121 in the U.S. versus $280 in France. The reasons for these differences are driven by higher prices per unit of service, rather than a higher volume of usage. In other countries, governments intervene more forcefully in setting prices. In countries such as Canada and Britain, prices are set by the government. In others, such as Germany and Japan, they’re set by providers and insurers sitting in a room and coming to an agreement, with the government stepping in to set prices if they fail.\n\nCongressional proponents argue that drugs manufactured overseas by U.S. companies could be imported and purchased more cheaply in the U.S. Drug manufacturers argue that certain foreign countries have price controls, which they recoup by charging higher prices in the U.S. Whitehouse spokesman Robert Gibbs said President Obama is supportive of importing drugs, provided safety concerns related to the drugs can be addressed. This is because drugs manufactured outside the country may be held to different standards. According to Bloomberg News, drugmakers agreed in June 2009 to contribute $80 billion over 10 years, largely to help the elderly afford medicines, in return for staving off other profit-endangering proposals such as drug importation.\n\n"}
{"id": "38238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38238", "title": "Hepatitis", "text": "Hepatitis\n\nHepatitis is inflammation of the liver tissue. Some people have no symptoms whereas others develop yellow discoloration of the skin and whites of the eyes, poor appetite, vomiting, tiredness, abdominal pain, or diarrhea. Hepatitis may be temporary (acute) or long term (chronic) depending on whether it lasts for less than or more than six months. Acute hepatitis can sometimes resolve on its own, progress to chronic hepatitis, or rarely result in acute liver failure. Over time the chronic form may progress to scarring of the liver, liver failure, or liver cancer.\nThe most common cause of hepatitis worldwide is viruses. Other causes include heavy alcohol use, certain medications, toxins, other infections, autoimmune diseases, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). There are five main types of viral hepatitis: type A, B, C, D, and E. Hepatitis A and E are mainly spread by contaminated food and water. Hepatitis B is mainly sexually transmitted, but may also be passed from mother to baby during pregnancy or childbirth. Both hepatitis B and C are commonly spread through infected blood such as may occur during needle sharing by intravenous drug users. Hepatitis D can only infect people already infected with hepatitis B.\nHepatitis A, B, and D are preventable with immunization. Medications may be used to treat chronic cases of viral hepatitis. There is no specific treatment for NASH; however, a healthy lifestyle, including physical activity, a healthy diet, and weight loss, is important. Autoimmune hepatitis may be treated with medications to suppress the immune system. A liver transplant may also be an option in certain cases.\nWorldwide in 2015, hepatitis A occurred in about 114 million people, chronic hepatitis B affected about 343 million people and chronic hepatitis C about 142 million people. In the United States, NASH affects about 11 million people and alcoholic hepatitis affects about 5 million people. Hepatitis results in more than a million deaths a year, most of which occur indirectly from liver scarring or liver cancer. In the United States, hepatitis A is estimated to occur in about 2,500 people a year and results in about 75 deaths. The word is derived from the Greek \"hêpar\" (), meaning \"liver\", and \"-itis\" (), meaning \"inflammation\". \n\nHepatitis has a broad spectrum of presentations that range from a complete lack of symptoms to severe liver failure. The acute form of hepatitis, generally caused by viral infection, is characterized by constitutional symptoms that are typically self-limiting. Chronic hepatitis presents similarly, but can manifest signs and symptoms specific to liver dysfunction with long-standing inflammation and damage to the organ.\n\nAcute viral hepatitis follows three distinct phases:\nBoth drug-induced hepatitis and autoimmune hepatitis can present very similarly to acute viral hepatitis, with slight variations in symptoms depending on the cause. Cases of drug-induced hepatitis can manifest with systemic signs of an allergic reaction including rash, fever, serositis (inflammation of membranes lining certain organs), elevated eosinophils (a type of white blood cell), and suppression of bone marrow activity.\n\nFulminant hepatitis, or massive hepatic cell death, is a rare and life-threatening complication of acute hepatitis that can occur in cases of hepatitis B, D, and E, in addition to drug-induced and autoimmune hepatitis. The complication more frequently occurs in instances of hepatitis B and D co-infection at a rate of 2–20% and in pregnant women with hepatitis E at rate of 15–20% of cases. In addition to the signs of acute hepatitis, people can also demonstrate signs of coagulopathy (abnormal coagulation studies with easy bruising and bleeding) and encephalopathy (confusion, disorientation, and sleepiness). Mortality due to fulminant hepatitis is typically the result of various complications including cerebral edema, gastrointestinal bleeding, sepsis, respiratory failure, or kidney failure.\n\nAcute cases of hepatitis are seen to be resolved well within a six-month period. When hepatitis is continued for more than six months it is termed chronic hepatitis. Chronic hepatitis is often asymptomatic early in its course and is detected only by liver laboratory studies for screening purposes or to evaluate non-specific symptoms. As the inflammation progresses, patients can develop constitutional symptoms similar to acute hepatitis, including fatigue, nausea, vomiting, poor appetite, and joint pain. Jaundice can occur as well, but much later in the disease process and is typically a sign of advanced disease. Chronic hepatitis interferes with hormonal functions of the liver which can result in acne, hirsutism (abnormal hair growth), and amenorrhea (lack of menstrual period) in women. Extensive damage and scarring of the liver over time defines cirrhosis, a condition in which the liver's ability to function is permanently impeded. This results in jaundice, weight loss, coagulopathy, ascites (abdominal fluid collection), and peripheral edema (leg swelling). Cirrhosis can lead to other life-threatening complications such as hepatic encephalopathy, esophageal varices, hepatorenal syndrome, and liver cancer.\n\nCauses of hepatitis can be divided into the following major categories: infectious, metabolic, ischemic, autoimmune, genetic, and other. Infectious agents include viruses, bacteria, and parasites. Toxins, drugs, alcohol, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are metabolic causes of liver injury and inflammation. Autoimmune and genetic causes of hepatitis involve genetic predispositions and tend to affect characteristic populations.\n\nViral hepatitis is the most common type of hepatitis worldwide. Viral hepatitis is caused by five different viruses (hepatitis A, B, C, D, and E). Hepatitis A and hepatitis E behave similarly: they are both transmitted by the fecal–oral route, are more common in developing countries, and are self-limiting illnesses that do not lead to chronic hepatitis.\n\nHepatitis B, hepatitis C, and hepatitis D are transmitted when blood or mucous membranes are exposed to infected blood and body fluids, such as semen and vaginal secretions. Viral particles have also been found in saliva and breastmilk. However, kissing, sharing utensils, and breastfeeding do not lead to transmission unless these fluids are introduced into open sores or cuts.\n\nHepatitis B and C can present either acutely or chronically. Hepatitis D is a defective virus that requires hepatitis B to replicate and is only found with hepatitis B co-infection. In adults, hepatitis B infection is most commonly self-limiting, with less than 5% progressing to chronic state, and 20 to 30% of those chronically infected developing cirrhosis or liver cancer. However, infection in infants and children frequently leads to chronic infection.\n\nUnlike hepatitis B, most cases of hepatitis C lead to chronic infection. Hepatitis C is the second most common cause of cirrhosis in the US (second to alcoholic hepatitis). In the 1970s and 1980s, blood transfusions were a major factor in spreading hepatitis C virus. Since widespread screening of blood products for hepatitis C began in 1992, the risk of acquiring hepatitis C from a blood transfusion has decreased from approximately 10% in the 1970s to 1 in 2 million currently.\n\nParasites can also infect the liver and activate the immune response, resulting in symptoms of acute hepatitis with increased serum IgE (though chronic hepatitis is possible with chronic infections). Of the protozoans, Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania species, and the malaria-causing Plasmodium species all can cause liver inflammation. Another protozoan, Entamoeba histolytica, causes hepatitis with distinct liver abscesses.\n\nOf the worms, the cestode Echinococcus granulosus, also known as the dog tapeworm, infects the liver and forms characteristic hepatic hydatid cysts. The liver flukes Fasciola hepatica and Clonorchis sinensis live in the bile ducts and cause progressive hepatitis and liver fibrosis.\n\nBacterial infection of the liver commonly results in pyogenic liver abscesses, acute hepatitis, or granulomatous (or chronic) liver disease. Pyogenic abscesses commonly involve enteric bacteria such as \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\" and are composed of multiple bacteria up to 50% of the time. Acute hepatitis is caused by \"Neisseria meningitidis\", \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\", \"Bartonella henselae\", \"Borrelia burgdorferi\", salmonella species, brucella species and campylobacter species. Chronic or granulomatous hepatitis is seen with infection from mycobacteria species, \"Tropheryma whipplei\", \"Treponema pallidum\", \"Coxiella burnetii\", and rickettsia species.\n\nExcessive alcohol consumption is a significant cause of hepatitis and is the most common cause of cirrhosis in the U.S. Alcoholic hepatitis is within the spectrum of alcoholic liver disease. This ranges in order of severity and reversibility from alcoholic steatosis (least severe, most reversible), alcoholic hepatitis, cirrhosis, and liver cancer (most severe, least reversible). Hepatitis usually develops over years-long exposure to alcohol, occurring in 10 to 20% of alcoholics. The most important risk factors for the development of alcoholic hepatitis are quantity and duration of alcohol intake. Long-term alcohol intake in excess of 80 grams of alcohol a day in men and 40 grams a day in women is associated with development of alcoholic hepatitis (1 beer or 4 ounces of wine is equivalent to 12g of alcohol). Alcoholic hepatitis can vary from asymptomatic hepatomegaly (enlarged liver) to symptoms of acute or chronic hepatitis to liver failure.\n\nMany chemical agents, including medications, industrial toxins, and herbal and dietary supplements, can cause hepatitis. The spectrum of drug-induced liver injury varies from acute hepatitis to chronic hepatitis to acute liver failure. Toxins and medications can cause liver injury through a variety of mechanisms, including direct cell damage, disruption of cell metabolism, and causing structural changes. Some drugs such as paracetamol exhibit predictable dose-dependent liver damage while others such as isoniazid cause idiosyncratic and unpredictable reactions that vary among individuals. There are wide variations in the mechanisms of liver injury and latency period from exposure to development of clinical illness.\n\nMany types of drugs can cause liver injury, including the analgesic paracetamol; antibiotics such as isoniazid, nitrofurantoin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, erythromycin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole; anticonvulsants such as valproate and phenytoin; cholesterol-lowering statins; steroids such as oral contraceptives and anabolic steroids; and highly active anti-retroviral therapy used in the treatment of HIV/AIDS. Of these, amoxicillin-clavulanate is the most common cause of drug-induced liver injury, and paracetamol toxicity the most common cause of acute liver failure in the United States and Europe.\n\nHerbal remedies and dietary supplements are another important cause of hepatitis; these are the most common causes of drug-induced hepatitis in Korea. The United-States-based Drug Induced Liver Injury Network linked more than 16% of cases of hepatotoxicity to herbal and dietary supplements. In the United States, herbal and dietary supplements – unlike pharmaceutical drugs – are unregulated by the Food and Drug Administration. However, the National Institutes of Health maintains the LiverTox database for consumers to track all known prescription and non-prescription compounds associated with liver injury.\n\nExposure to other hepatotoxins can occur accidentally or intentionally through ingestion, inhalation, and skin absorption. The industrial toxin carbon tetrachloride and the wild mushroom Amanita phalloides are other known hepatotoxins.\n\nNon-alcoholic hepatitis is within the spectrum of non-alcoholic liver disease (NALD), which ranges in severity and reversibility from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) to cirrhosis to liver cancer, similar to the spectrum of alcoholic liver disease.\n\nNon-alcoholic liver disease occurs in people with little or no history of alcohol use, and is instead strongly associated with metabolic syndrome, obesity, insulin resistance and diabetes, and hypertriglyceridemia. Over time, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease can progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, which additionally involves liver cell death, liver inflammation and possible fibrosis. Factors accelerating progression from NAFLD to NASH are obesity, older age, non-African American ethnicity, female gender, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, higher ALT or AST level, higher AST/ALT ratio, low platelet count, and an ultrasound steatosis score.\n\nIn the early stages (as with NAFLD and early NASH), most patients are asymptomatic or have mild right upper quadrant pain, and diagnosis is suspected on the basis of abnormal liver function tests. As the disease progresses, symptoms typical of chronic hepatitis may develop. While imaging can show fatty liver, only liver biopsy can demonstrate inflammation and fibrosis characteristic of NASH. 9 to 25% of patients with NASH develop cirrhosis. NASH is recognized as the third most common cause of liver disease in the United States.\n\nAutoimmune hepatitis is a chronic disease caused by an abnormal immune response against liver cells. The disease is thought to have a genetic predisposition as it is associated with certain human leukocyte antigens involved in the immune response. As in other autoimmune diseases, circulating auto-antibodies may be present and are helpful in diagnosis. Auto-antibodies found in patients with autoimmune hepatitis include the sensitive but less specific anti-nuclear antibody (ANA), smooth muscle antibody (SMA), and atypical perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (p-ANCA). Other autoantibodies that are less common but more specific to autoimmune hepatitis are the antibodies against liver kidney microsome 1 (LKM1) and soluble liver antigen (SLA). Autoimmune hepatitis can also be triggered by drugs (such as nitrofurantoin, hydralazine, and methyldopa), after liver transplant, or by viruses (such as hepatitis A, Epstein-Barr virus, or measles).\n\nAutoimmune hepatitis can present anywhere within the spectrum from asymptomatic to acute or chronic hepatitis to fulminant liver failure. Patients are asymptomatic 25–34% of the time, and the diagnosis is suspected on the basis of abnormal liver function tests. Up to 40% of cases present with signs and symptoms of acute hepatitis. As with other autoimmune diseases, autoimmune hepatitis usually affects young women (though it can affect patients of either sex of any age), and patients can exhibit classic signs and symptoms of autoimmunity such as fatigue, anemia, anorexia, amenorrhea, acne, arthritis, pleurisy, thyroiditis, ulcerative colitis, nephritis, and maculopapular rash. Autoimmune hepatitis increases the risk for cirrhosis, and the risk for liver cancer is increased by about 1% for each year of the disease.\n\nMany people with autoimmune hepatitis have other autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune hepatitis is distinct from the other autoimmune diseases of the liver: primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis. However, all of these diseases can lead to scarring, fibrosis, and cirrhosis of the liver.\n\nGenetic causes of hepatitis include alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, hemochromatosis, and Wilson's disease. In alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, a co-dominant mutation in the gene for alpha-1-antitrypsin results in the abnormal accumulation of the protein within liver cells, leading to liver disease. Hemochromatosis and Wilson's disease are both autosomal recessive diseases involving abnormal storage of minerals. In hemochromatosis, excess amounts of iron accumulate in multiple body sites, including the liver, which can lead to cirrhosis. In Wilson's disease, excess amounts of copper accumulate in the liver and brain, causing cirrhosis and dementia.\n\nWhen the liver is involved, alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency and Wilson's disease tend to present as hepatitis in the neonatal period or in childhood. Hemochromatosis typically presents in adulthood, with the onset of clinical disease usually after age 50.\n\nIschemic hepatitis (also known as shock liver) results from reduced blood flow to the liver as in shock, heart failure, or vascular insufficiency. The condition is most often associated with heart failure but can also be caused by shock or sepsis. Blood testing of a person with ischemic hepatitis will show very high levels of transaminase enzymes (AST and ALT). The condition usually resolves if the underlying cause is treated successfully. Ischemic hepatitis rarely causes permanent liver damage.\n\nHepatitis can also occur in neonates and is attributable to a variety of causes, some of which are not typically seen in adults. Congenital or perinatal infection with the hepatitis viruses, toxoplasma, rubella, cytomegalovirus, and syphilis can cause neonatal hepatitis. Structural abnormalities such as biliary atresia and choledochal cysts can lead to cholestatic liver injury leading to neonatal hepatitis. Metabolic diseases such as glycogen storage disorders and lysosomal storage disorders are also implicated. Neonatal hepatitis can be idiopathic, and in such cases, biopsy often shows large multinucleated cells in the liver tissue. This disease is termed giant cell hepatitis and may be associated with viral infection, autoimmune disorders, and drug toxicity.\n\nThe specific mechanism varies and depends on the underlying cause of the hepatitis. Generally, there is an initial insult that causes liver injury and activation of an inflammatory response, which can become chronic, leading to progressive fibrosis and cirrhosis.\n\nThe pathway by which hepatic viruses cause viral hepatitis is best understood in the case of hepatitis B and C. The viruses do not directly cause apoptosis (cell death). Rather, infection of liver cells activates the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system leading to an inflammatory response which causes cellular damage and death. Depending on the strength of the immune response, the types of immune cells involved and the ability of the virus to evade the body's defense, infection can either lead to clearance (acute disease) or persistence (chronic disease) of the virus. The chronic presence of the virus within liver cells results in multiple waves of inflammation, injury and wound healing that over time lead to scarring or fibrosis and culminate in hepatocellular carcinoma. Individuals with an impaired immune response are at greater risk of developing chronic infection. Natural killer cells are the primary drivers of the initial innate response and create a cytokine environment that results in the recruitment of CD4 T-helper and CD8 cytotoxic T-cells. Type I interferons are the cytokines that drive the antiviral response. In chronic Hepatitis B and C, natural killer cell function is impaired.\n\nSteatohepatitis is seen in both alcoholic and non-alcoholic liver disease and is the culmination of a cascade of events that began with injury. In the case of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, this cascade is initiated by changes in metabolism associated with obesity, insulin resistance, and lipid dysregulation. In alcoholic hepatitis, chronic excess alcohol use is the culprit. Though the inciting event may differ, the progression of events is similar and begins with accumulation of free fatty acids (FFA) and their breakdown products in the liver cells in a process called steatosis. This initially reversible process overwhelms the hepatocyte's ability to maintain lipid homeostasis leading to a toxic effect as fat molecules accumulate and are broken down in the setting of an oxidative stress response. Over time, this abnormal lipid deposition triggers the immune system via toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) resulting in the production of inflammatory cytokines such as TNF that cause liver cell injury and death. These events mark the transition to steatohepatitis and in the setting of chronic injury, fibrosis eventually develops setting up events that lead to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Microscopically, changes that can be seen include steatosis with large and swollen hepatocytes (ballooning), evidence of cellular injury and cell death (apoptosis, necrosis), evidence of inflammation in particular in zone 3 of the liver, variable degrees of fibrosis and Mallory bodies.\n\nDiagnosis of hepatitis is made on the basis of some or all of the following: a patient's signs and symptoms, medical history including sexual and substance use history, blood tests, imaging, and liver biopsy. In general, for viral hepatitis and other acute causes of hepatitis, the patient's blood tests and clinical picture are sufficient for diagnosis. For other causes of hepatitis, especially chronic causes, blood tests may not be useful. In this case, liver biopsy is the gold standard for establishing the diagnosis as histopathologic analysis is able to reveal the precise extent and pattern of inflammation and fibrosis. However, liver biopsy is typically not the initial diagnostic test because it is invasive and is associated with a small but significant risk of bleeding that is increased in patients with liver injury and cirrhosis.\n\nBlood testing includes liver enzymes, serology (i.e. for autoantibodies), nucleic acid testing (i.e. for hepatitis virus DNA/RNA), blood chemistry, and complete blood count. Characteristic patterns of liver enzyme abnormalities can point to certain causes or stages of hepatitis. Generally, AST and ALT are elevated in most cases of hepatitis regardless of whether the patient shows any symptoms. However, the degree of elevation (i.e. levels in the hundreds vs. in the thousands), the predominance for AST vs. ALT elevation, and the ratio between AST and ALT are informative of the diagnosis.\n\nUltrasound, CT, and MRI can all identify steatosis (fatty changes) of the liver tissue and nodularity of the liver surface suggestive of cirrhosis. CT and especially MRI are able to provide a higher level of detail, allowing visualization and characterize such structures as vessels and tumors within the liver. Unlike steatosis and cirrhosis, no imaging test is able to detect liver inflammation (i.e. hepatitis) or fibrosis. Liver biopsy is the only definitive diagnostic test that is able to assess inflammation and fibrosis of the liver.\n\nViral hepatitis is primarily diagnosed through blood tests for levels of viral antigens (such as the hepatitis B surface or core antigen), anti-viral antibodies (such as the anti-hepatitis B surface antibody or anti-hepatitis A antibody), or viral DNA/RNA. In early infection (i.e. within 1 week), IgM antibodies are found in the blood. In late infection and after recovery, IgG antibodies are present and remain in the body for up to years. Therefore, when a patient is positive for IgG antibody but negative for IgM antibody, he is considered immune from the virus via either prior infection and recovery or prior vaccination.\n\nIn the case of hepatitis B, blood tests exist for multiple virus antigens (which are different components of the ) and antibodies. The combination of antigen and antibody positivity can provide information about the stage of infection (acute or chronic), the degree of viral replication, and the infectivity of the virus.\n\nThe most apparent distinguishing factor between alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a history of alcohol use or abuse. Thus, in patients who have no or negligible alcohol use, the diagnosis is unlikely to be alcoholic hepatitis. However, in those who use alcohol, the diagnosis may just as likely be alcoholic or nonalcoholic hepatitis especially if there is concurrent obesity, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome. In this case, alcoholic and nonalcoholic hepatitis can be distinguished by the pattern of liver enzyme abnormalities; specifically, in alcoholic steatohepatitis AST>ALT with ratio of AST:ALT>2:1 while in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ALT>AST with ratio of ALT:AST>1.5:1.\n\nOf note, liver biopsy shows identical findings in patients with ASH and NASH, specifically, the presence of polymorphonuclear infiltration, hepatocyte necrosis and apoptosis in the form of ballooning degeneration, Mallory bodies, and fibrosis around veins and sinuses.\n\nThe purpose of screening for viral hepatitis is to identify people infected with the disease as early as possible. This allows for early treatment, which can prevent disease progression, and decreases transmission to others.\n\nHepatitis A causes an acute illness that does not progress to chronic liver disease. Therefore, the role of screening is to assess immune status in people who are at high risk of contracting the virus, as well as in people with known liver disease for whom hepatitis A infection could lead to liver failure. People in these groups who are not already immune can receive the hepatitis A vaccine.\n\nThose at high risk and in need of screening include:\n\nThe presence of anti-hepatitis A IgG in the blood indicates past infection with the virus or prior vaccination.\n\nThe CDC, WHO, USPSTF, and ACOG recommend routine hepatitis B screening for certain high-risk populations. Specifically, these populations include people who are:\nScreening consists of a blood test that detects hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). If HBsAg is present, a second test – usually done on the same blood sample – that detects the antibody for the hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBcAg) can differentiate between acute and chronic infection. People who are high-risk whose blood tests negative for HBsAg can receive the hepatitis B vaccine to prevent future infection.\n\nThe CDC, WHO, USPSTF, AASLD, and ACOG recommend screening people at high risk for hepatitis C infection. These populations include people who are:\nFor people in the groups above whose exposure is ongoing, screening should be \"periodic,\" though according to the USPSTF, research has not defined the optimal screening interval. The AASLD recommends screening men who have sex with men who are HIV-positive annually. People born in the US between 1945-1965 should be screened once (unless they have other exposure risks).\n\nScreening consists of a blood test that detects anti-hepatitis C virus antibody. If anti-hepatitis C virus antibody is present, a confirmatory test to detect HCV RNA indicates chronic disease.\n\nThe CDC recommends the hepatitis A vaccine for all children beginning at age one, as well as for those who have not been previously immunized and are at high risk for contracting the disease.\n\nFor children 12 months of age or older, the vaccination is given as a shot into the muscle in two doses 6–18 months apart and should be started before the age 24 months.  The dosing is slightly different for adults depending on the type of the vaccine.  If the vaccine is for hepatitis A only, two doses are given 6–18 months apart depending on the manufacturer.  If the vaccine is combined hepatitis A and hepatitis B, up to 4 doses may be required.\n\nThe CDC recommends the routine vaccination of all children under the age of 19 with the hepatitis B vaccine. They also recommend it for those who desire it or are at high risk.\n\nRoutine vaccination for hepatitis B starts with the first dose administered as  a shot into the muscle before the newborn is discharged from the hospital. An additional two doses should be administered before the child is 18 months.\n\nFor babies born to a mother with hepatitis B surface antigen positivity, the first dose is unique – in addition to the vaccine, the hepatitis immune globulin should also be administered, both within 12 hours of birth.  These newborns should also be regularly tested for infection for at least the first year of life.\n\nThere is also a combination formulation that includes both hepatitis A and B vaccines.\n\nThere are currently no vaccines available in the United States for hepatitis C or E.\n\nBecause hepatitis A is transmitted primarily through the oral-fecal route, the mainstay of prevention aside from vaccination is good hygiene, access to clean water and proper handling of sewage.\n\nAs hepatitis B and C are transmitted through blood and multiple bodily fluids, prevention is aimed at screening blood prior to transfusion, abstaining from the use of injection drugs, safe needle and sharps practices in healthcare settings, and safe sex practices.\n\nThe hepatitis D virus requires that a person first be infected with hepatitis B virus, so prevention efforts should focus on limiting the spread of hepatitis B. In people who have chronic hepatitis B infection and are at risk for superinfection with the hepatitis D virus, the preventive strategies are the same as for hepatitis B.\n\nHepatitis E is spread primarily through the oral-fecal route but may also be spread by blood and from mother to fetus. The mainstay of hepatitis E prevention is similar to that for hepatitis A (namely, good hygiene and clean water practices).\n\nAs excessive alcohol consumption can lead to hepatitis and cirrhosis, the following are maximal recommendations for alcohol consumption:\n\nIn the United States, universal immunization has led to a two-thirds decrease in hospital admissions and medical expenses due to hepatitis A.\n\nIn the United States new cases of hepatitis B decreased 75% from 1990–2004.  The group that saw the greatest decrease was children and adolescents, likely reflecting the implementation of the 1999 guidelines.\n\nHepatitis C infections each year had been declining since the 1980s, but began to increase again in 2006. The data are unclear as to whether the decline can be attributed to needle exchange programmes.\n\nBecause people with alcoholic hepatitis may have no symptoms, it can be difficult to diagnose and the number of people with the disease is probably higher than many estimates. Programs such as Alcoholics Anonymous have been successful in decreasing death due to cirrhosis, but it is difficult to evaluate their success in decreasing the incidence of alcoholic hepatitis.\n\nTreatment of hepatitis varies based on the form (acute versus chronic), severity of disease, and cause. \n\nHepatitis A generally does not progress to a chronic state and rarely requires hospitalization. Treatment is supportive and includes such measures as providing intravenous (IV) hydration and maintaining adequate nutrition.\n\nRarely, people with the hepatitis A virus can rapidly develop liver failure, termed \"fulminant hepatic failure\", especially the elderly and those who had a pre-existing liver disease, especially hepatitis C. Mortality risk factors include greater age and chronic hepatitis C. In these cases, more aggressive supportive therapy and liver transplant may be necessary.\n\nIn healthy patients, 95–99% recover with no long-lasting effects, and antiviral treatment is not warranted. Age and comorbid conditions can result in a more prolonged and severe illness. Certain patients warrant hospitalization, especially those who present with clinical signs of ascites, peripheral edema, and hepatic encephalopathy, and laboratory signs of hypoglycemia, prolonged prothrombin time, low serum albumin, and very high serum bilirubin.\n\nIn these rare, more severe acute cases, patients have been successfully treated with antiviral therapy similar to that used in cases of chronic hepatitis B, with nucleoside analogues such as entecavir or tenofovir. As there is a dearth of clinical trial data and the drugs used to treat are prone to developing resistance, experts recommend reserving treatment for severe acute cases, not mild to moderate.\n\nChronic hepatitis B management aims to control viral replication, which is correlated with progression of disease. There have been 7 drug treatments approved to date in the United States:\nFirst-line treatments currently used include PEG IFN, entecavir, and tenofovir, subject to patient and physician preference. Treatment initiation is guided by recommendations issued by The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) and is based on detectable viral levels, HBeAg positive or negative status, ALT levels, and in certain cases, family history of HCC and liver biopsy. In patients with compensated cirrhosis, treatment is recommended regardless of HBeAg status or ALT level, but recommendations differ regarding HBV DNA levels; AASLD recommends treating at DNA levels detectable above 2x10 IU/mL; EASL and WHO recommend treating when HBV DNA levels are detectable at any level. In patients with decompensated cirrhosis, treatment and evaluation for liver transplantation are recommended in all cases if HBV DNA is detectable. Currently, multidrug treatment is not recommended in treatment of chronic HBV as it is no more effective in the long term than individual treatment with entecavir or tenofovir.\n\nIn contrast to hepatitis A and B, progression to chronic hepatitis C is much more common. The ultimate goal of hepatitis C treatment is prevention of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The best way to reduce the long-term risk of HCC is to achieve sustained virological response (SVR). SVR is defined as an undetectable viral load at 12 weeks after treatment completion and indicates a cure. Currently available treatments include indirect and direct acting antiviral drugs. The indirect acting antivirals include pegylated interferon (PEG IFN) and ribavirin (RBV), which in combination have historically been the basis of therapy for HCV. Duration of and response to these treatments varies based on genotype. These agents are poorly tolerated but are still used in some resource-poor areas. In high-resource countries, they have been supplanted by direct acting antiviral agents, which first appeared in 2011; these agents target proteins responsible for viral replication and include the following three classes:\nThese drugs are used in various combinations, sometimes combined with ribavirin, based on the patient's genotype (delineated as genotypes 1-6). Genotype 1 (GT1), which is the most prevalent genotype in the United States and around the world, can now be cured with a direct acting antiviral regimen. First-line therapy for GT1 is a combination of sofosbuvir and ledipasvir (SOF/LDV) for 12 weeks for most patients, including those with advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis. Certain patients with early disease need only 8 weeks of treatment while those with advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis who have not responded to prior treatment require 24 weeks. Cost remains a major factor limiting access to these drugs, particularly in low-resource nations; the cost of the 12-week GT1 regimen (SOF/LDV) has been estimated at US$94,500.\n\nThe American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (AASLD-IDSA) recommend antiviral treatment for all patients with chronic hepatitis C infection except for those with additional chronic medical conditions that limit their life expectancy.\n\nHepatitis D is difficult to treat, and effective treatments are lacking. Interferon alpha has proven effective at inhibiting viral activity but only on a temporary basis.\n\nSimilar to hepatitis A, treatment of hepatitis E is supportive and includes rest and ensuring adequate nutrition and hydration. Hospitalization may be required for particularly severe cases or for pregnant women.\n\nFirst-line treatment of alcoholic hepatitis is treatment of alcoholism. For those who abstain completely from alcohol, reversal of liver disease and a longer life are possible; patients at every disease stage have been shown to benefit by prevention of additional liver injury. In addition to referral to psychotherapy and other treatment programs, treatment should include nutritional and psychosocial evaluation and treatment. Patients should also be treated appropriately for related signs and symptoms, such as ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, and infection.\n\nSevere alcoholic hepatitis has a poor prognosis and is notoriously difficult to treat. Without any treatment, 20-50% of patients may die within a month, but evidence shows treatment may extend life beyond one month (i.e., reduce short-term mortality). Available treatment options include pentoxifylline (PTX), which is a nonspecific TNF inhibitor, corticosteroids, such as prednisone or prednisolone (CS), corticosteroids with \"N\"-acetylcysteine (CS with NAC), and corticosteroids with pentoxifylline (CS with PTX). Data suggest that CS alone or CS with NAC are most effective at reducing short-term mortality. Unfortunately, corticosteroids are contraindicated in some patients, such as those who have active gastrointestinal bleeding, infection, kidney failure, or pancreatitis. In these cases PTX may be considered on a case by case basis in lieu of CS; some evidence shows PTX is better than no treatment at all and may be comparable to CS while other data show no evidence of benefit over placebo. Unfortunately, there are currently no drug treatments that decrease these patients’ risk of dying in the longer term, at 3–12 months and beyond.\n\nWeak evidence suggests milk thistle extracts may improve survival in alcoholic liver disease and improve certain liver tests (serum bilirubin and GGT) without causing side effects, but a firm recommendation cannot be made for or against milk thistle without further study. \n\nMany people with hepatitis will prefer bed rest, though it is not necessary to avoid all physical activity while recovering. A high-calorie diet is recommended. Many people develop nausea and cannot tolerate food later in the day, so the bulk of intake may be concentrated in the earlier part of the day. In the acute phase of the disease, intravenous feeding may be needed if patients cannot tolerate food and have poor oral intake subsequent to nausea and vomiting.\n\nPeople with hepatitis should avoid taking drugs metabolized by the liver. Glucocorticoids are not recommended as a treatment option for acute viral hepatitis and may even cause harm, such as development of chronic hepatitis.\n\nUniversal precautions should be observed, but isolation is not strictly necessary; isolation may be needed in cases of fecal incontinence in hepatitis A and E and uncontrolled bleeding in hepatitis B and C.\n\nNearly all patients with hepatitis A infections recover completely without complications if they were healthy prior to the infection. Similarly, acute hepatitis B infections have a favorable course towards complete recovery in 95–99% of patients. However, certain factors may portend a poorer outcome, such as co-morbid medical conditions or initial presenting symptoms of ascites, edema, or encephalopathy. Overall, the mortality rate for acute hepatitis is low: ~0.1% in total for cases of hepatitis A and B, but rates can be higher in certain populations (super infection with both hepatitis B and D, pregnant women, etc.).\n\nIn contrast to hepatitis A & B, hepatitis C carries a much higher risk of progressing to chronic hepatitis, approaching 85–90%. Cirrhosis has been reported to develop in 20–50% of patients with chronic hepatitis C.\n\nOther rare complications of acute hepatitis include pancreatitis, aplastic anemia, peripheral neuropathy, and myocarditis.\n\nDespite the relatively benign course of most viral cases of hepatitis, fulminant hepatitis represents a rare but feared complication. Fulminant hepatitis most commonly occurs in hepatitis B, D, and E. About 1–2% of cases of hepatitis E can lead to fulminant hepatitis, but pregnant women are particularly susceptible, occurring in up to 20% of cases. Mortality rates in cases of fulminant hepatitis rise over 80%, but those patients that do survive often make a complete recovery. Liver transplantation can be life-saving in patients with fulminant liver failure.\n\nHepatitis D infections can transform benign cases of hepatitis B into severe, progressive hepatitis, a phenomenon known as superinfection.\n\nAcute hepatitis B infections become less likely to progress to chronic forms as the age of the patient increases, with rates of progression approaching 90% in vertically transmitted cases of infants compared to 1% risk in young adults. Overall, the 5-year survival rate for chronic hepatitis B ranges from 97% in mild cases to 55% in severe cases with cirrhosis.\n\nMost patients who acquire hepatitis D at the same time as hepatitis B (co-infection) recover without developing a chronic infection; however, in people with hepatitis B who later acquire hepatitis D (superinfection), chronic infection is much more common at 80-90%, and liver disease progression is accelerated.\n\nChronic hepatitis C progresses towards cirrhosis, with estimates of cirrhosis prevalence of 16% at 20 years after infection. While the major causes of mortality in hepatitis C is end stage liver disease, hepatocellular carcinoma is an important additional long term complication and cause of death in chronic hepatitis.\n\nRates of mortality increase with progression of the underlying liver disease. Series of patients with compensated cirrhosis due to HCV have shown 3,5, and 10-year survival rates of 96, 91, and 79% respectively. The 5-year survival rate drops to 50% upon if the cirrhosis becomes decompensated.\n\nHepatitis A is found throughout the world and manifests as large outbreaks and epidemics associated with fecal contamination of water and food sources. Hepatitis A viral infection is predominant in children ages 5–14 with rare infection of infants. Infected children have little to no apparent clinical illness, in contrast to adults in whom greater than 80% are symptomatic if infected. Infection rates are highest in low resource countries with inadequate public sanitation and large concentrated populations. In such regions, as much as 90% of children younger than 10 years old have been infected and are immune, corresponding both to lower rates of clinically symptomatic disease and outbreaks. The availability of a childhood vaccine has significantly reduced infections in the United States, with incidence declining by more than 95% as of 2013. Paradoxically, the highest rates of new infection now occur in young adults and adults who present with worse clinical illness. Specific populations at greatest risk include: travelers to endemic regions, men who have sex with men, those with occupational exposure to non-human primates, individuals with clotting disorders who have received clotting factors, individuals with a history of chronic liver disease where co-infection with hepatitis A can lead to fulminant hepatitis, and intravenous drug users (rare).\n\nHepatitis B is the most common cause of viral hepatitis in the world with more than 240 million chronic carriers of the virus, 1 million of whom are in the United States. In approximately two-thirds of patients who develop acute hepatitis B infection, no identifiable exposure is evident. Of those acutely infected, 25% become lifetime carriers of the virus. Risk of infection is highest among intravenous drug users, individuals with high-risk sexual behaviors, healthcare workers, individuals with a history of multiple transfusions, organ transplant patients, dialysis patients and newborns infected during the birthing process. Close to 780,000 deaths in the world are attributed to hepatitis B. The most endemic regions are in sub-Saharan Africa and East Asia where as much as 10% of adults are chronic carriers. Carrier rates in developed nations are significantly lower, encompassing less than 1% of the population. In endemic regions, transmission is thought to be associated with exposure during birth and close contact between young infants.\n\nChronic hepatitis C is a major cause of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. It is a common medical reason for liver transplantation due to its severe complications. It is estimated that 130–180 million people in the world are affected by this disease representing a little more than 3% of the world population. In the developing regions of Africa, Asia and South America, prevalence can be as high as 10% of the population. In Egypt, rates of hepatitis C infection as high as 20% have been documented and are associated with iatrogenic contamination related to schistosomiasis treatment in the 1950s–1980s. Currently in the United States, approximately 3.5 million adults are estimated to be infected. Hepatitis C is particularly prevalent among people born between 1945–1965, a group of about 800,000 people, with prevalence as high as 3.2% versus 1.6% in the general U.S. population. Most chronic carriers of hepatitis C are unaware of their infection status. The most common mode of transmission of hepatitis C virus is exposure to blood products via blood transfusions (prior to 1992) and intravenous drug injection. A history of intravenous drug injection is the most important risk factor for chronic hepatitis C. Other susceptible populations include individuals with high-risk sexual behavior, infants of infected mothers, and healthcare workers.\n\nThe hepatitis D virus causes chronic and fulminant hepatitis in the context of co-infection with the hepatitis B virus. It is primarily transmitted via non-sexual contact and via needles. Susceptibility to hepatitis D differs by geographic region. In the United States and Northern Europe, populations at risk are intravenous drug users and individuals who receive multiple transfusions. In the Mediterranean, hepatitis D is predominant among hepatitis B virus co-infected individuals.\n\nSimilar to Hepatitis A, hepatitis E manifests as large outbreaks and epidemics associated with fecal contamination of water sources. It accounts for more than 55,000 deaths annually with approximately 20 million people worldwide thought to be infected with the virus. It affects predominantly young adults, causing acute hepatitis. In infected pregnant women, Hepatitis E infection can lead to fulminant hepatitis with third trimester mortality rates as high as 30%. Individuals with weakened immune systems, such as organ transplant recipients, are also susceptible. Infection is rare in the United States but rates are high in the developing world (Africa, Asia, Central America, Middle East). Many genotypes exist and are differentially distributed around the world. There is some evidence of hepatitis E infection of animals, serving as a reservoir for human infection.\n\nAlcoholic hepatitis (AH) in its severe form has a one-month mortality as high as 50%. Most people who develop AH are men but women are at higher risk of developing AH and its complications likely secondary to high body fat and differences in alcohol metabolism. Other contributing factors include younger age <60, binge pattern drinking, poor nutritional status, obesity and hepatitis C co-infection. It is estimated that as much as 20% of people with AH are also infected with hepatitis C. In this population, the presence of hepatitis C virus leads to more severe disease with faster progression to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and increased mortality. Obesity increases the likelihood of progression to cirrhosis in individuals with alcoholic hepatitis. It is estimated that a high proportion of individuals (70%) who have AH will progress to cirrhosis.\n\nNon-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is projected to become the top reason for liver transplantation in the United States by the year 2020, supplanting chronic liver disease due to hepatitis C. About 20–45% of the U.S. population have NAFLD and 6% have NASH. The estimated prevalence of NASH in the world is 3–5%. Of NASH patients who develop cirrhosis, about 2% per year will likely progress to hepatocellular carcinoma. Worldwide, the estimated prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma related to NAFLD is 15–30%. NASH is thought to be the primary cause of cirrhosis in approximately 25% of patients in the United States, representing 1–2% of the general population.\n\nInitial accounts of a syndrome that we now think is likely to be hepatitis begin to occur around 3000 B.C. Clay tablets that served as medical handbooks for the ancient Sumerians described the first observations of jaundice. The Sumerians believed that the liver was the home of the soul, and attributed the findings of jaundice to the attack of one’s liver by a devil named Ahhazu. Around 400 B.C., Hippocrates recorded the first documentation of an epidemic jaundice, in particular noting the uniquely fulminant course of a cohort of patients who all died within two weeks. He wrote, “The bile contained in the liver is full of phlegm and blood, and erupts...After such an eruption, the patient soon raves, becomes angry, talks nonsense and barks like a dog.” His recommended treatment was a mixture of honey and water called \"melikraton\".\n\nGiven the poor sanitary conditions of war, infectious jaundice played a large role as a major cause of mortality among troops in the Napoleonic Wars, the American Revolutionary War, and both World Wars. During World War II, estimates of soldiers affected by hepatitis were upwards of 10 million. Soldiers received vaccines against diseases such as yellow fever, but these vaccines were stabilized with human serum and often created epidemics of hepatitis. Researchers from England, Findlay and MacCallum, suspected these epidemics to be due to a separate infectious agent and not due to the yellow fever virus itself after noting 89 cases of jaundice in the months after vaccination out of a total 3,100 patients that they vaccinated. After changing the seed virus strain, they observed no cases of jaundice in the subsequent 8,000 vaccinations.\n\nA New York University researcher named Saul Krugman continued this research into the 1950s and 1960s, most infamously with his experiments on mentally disabled children at the Willowbrook State School in New York, a crowded urban facility where hepatitis infections were highly endemic to the student body. Krugman injected students with gamma globulin, a type of antibody. After observing the temporary protection against infection this antibody provided, he then tried injected live hepatitis virus into students. Krugman also controversially took feces from infected students, blended it into milkshakes, and fed it to newly admitted children.\n\nHis research was received with much controversy, as people protested the questionable ethics surrounding the chosen target population. Henry Beecher was one of the foremost critics in an article in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" in 1966, arguing that parents were unaware to the risks of consent and that the research was done to benefit others at the expense of children. Moreover, he argued that poor families with mentally disabled children often felt pressured to join the research project to gain admission to the school, with all of the educational and support resources that would come along with it. Others in the medical community spoke out in support of Krugman's research in terms of its widespread benefits and understanding of the hepatitis virus, and Willowbrook continues to be a commonly cited example in debates about medical ethics.\n\nThe next leap forward in research was a serendipitous one by Dr. Baruch Blumberg, a researcher at the NIH who did not set out to research hepatitis, but rather studied lipoprotein genetics. He travelled across the globe collecting blood samples, investigating the interplay between disease, environment, and genetics with the goal of designing targeted interventions for at-risk individuals that could prevent them from getting sick. He noticed an unexpected interaction between the blood of a patient with hemophilia that had received multiple transfusions and a protein found in the blood of an Australian aborigine. He named the protein the \"Australia antigen\" and made it the focus of his research. He found a higher prevalence of the protein in the blood of patients from developing countries, compared to those from developed ones, and noted associations of the antigen with other diseases like leukemia and Down Syndrome. Eventually, he came to the unifying conclusion that the Australia antigen was associated with viral hepatitis. In 1970, David Dane first isolated the hepatitis B virion at London's Middlesex Hospital, and named the virion the 42-nm \"Dane particle\". Based on its association with the surface of the hepatitis B virus, the Australia antigen was renamed to \"hepatitis B surface antigen\" or HBsAg. Blumberg continued to study the antigen, and eventually developed the first hepatitis B vaccine using plasma rich in HBsAg, for which he received the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1976.\n\nOverall, hepatitis accounts for a significant portion of healthcare expenditures in both developing and developed nations, and is expected to rise in a several developing countries. While hepatitis A infections are self-limited events, they are associated with significant costs in the United States. It has been estimated that direct and indirect costs are approximately $1817 and $2459 respectively per case, and that an average of 27 work days is lost per infected adult. A 1997 report demonstrated that a single hospitalization related to hepatitis A cost an average of $6,900 and resulted in around $500 million in total annual healthcare costs. Cost effectiveness studies have found widespread vaccination of adults to not be feasible, but have stated that a combination hepatitis A and B vaccination of children and at risk groups (people from endemic areas, healthcare workers) may be.\n\nHepatitis B accounts for a much larger percentage of health care spending in endemic regions like Asia. In 1997 it accounted for 3.2% of South Korea's total health care expenditures and resulted in $696 million in direct costs. A large majority of that sum was spent on treating disease symptoms and complications. Chronic hepatitis B infections are not as endemic in the United States, but accounted for $357 million in hospitalization costs in the year 1990. That number grew to $1.5 billion in 2003, but remained stable as of 2006, which may be attributable to the introduction of effective drug therapies and vaccination campaigns.\n\nPeople infected with chronic hepatitis C tend to be frequent users of the health care system globally. It has been estimated that a person infected with hepatitis C in the United States will result in a monthly cost of $691. That number nearly doubles to $1,227 for people with compensated (stable) cirrhosis, while the monthly cost of people with decompensated (worsening) cirrhosis is almost five times as large at $3,682. The wide-ranging effects of hepatitis make it difficult to estimate indirect costs, but studies have speculated that the total cost is $6.5 billion annually in the United States. In Canada, 56% of HCV related costs are attributable to cirrhosis and total expenditures related to the virus are expected to peak at CAD$396 million in the year 2032.\n\nThe largest outbreak of hepatitis A virus in United States history occurred among people who ate at a now-defunct Mexican food restaurant located in Monaca, Pennsylvania in late 2003. Over 550 people who visited the restaurant between September and October 2003 were infected with the virus, three of whom died as a direct result. The outbreak was brought to the attention of health officials when local emergency medicine physicians noticed a significant increase in cases of hepatitis A in the county. After conducting its investigation, the CDC attributed the source of the outbreak to the use of contaminated raw green onion. The restaurant was purchasing its green onion stock from farms in Mexico at the time. It is believed that the green onions may have been contaminated through the use of contaminated water for crop irrigation, rinsing, or icing or by handling of the vegetables by infected individuals. Green onion had caused similar outbreaks of hepatitis A in the southern United States prior to this, but not to the same magnitude. The CDC believes that the restaurant's use of a large communal bucket for chopped raw green onion allowed non-contaminated plants to be mixed with contaminated ones, increasing the number of vectors of infection and amplifying the outbreak. The restaurant was closed once it was discovered to be the source, and over 9,000 people were given hepatitis A immune globulin because they had either eaten at the restaurant or had been in close contact with someone who had.\n\nA Canadian paper published in 2015 used a mouse model of chronic hepatitis B infection and showed that interfering with certain proteins can facilitate clearance of the virus which may have implications for human disease.\n\nIn March 2015, a group in China published an article regarding the development of a vaccine for hepatitis E. As of March 2016, the United States government was in the process of recruiting participants for the phase IV trial of the drug Hecolin.\n\nPersons infected with HIV have a particularly high burden of HIV-HCV co-infection. In a recent study by the WHO, the likelihood of being infected with hepatitis C virus was six times greater in individuals who also had HIV. The prevalence of HIV-HCV co-infection worldwide was estimated to be 6.2% representing more than 2.2 million people. Intravenous drug use was an independent risk factor for HCV infection. In the WHO study, the prevalence of HIV-HCV co-infection was markedly higher at 82.4% in those who injected drugs compared to the general population (2.4%). In a study of HIV-HCV co-infection among HIV positive men who have sex with men (MSM), the overall prevalence of anti-hepatitis C antibodies was estimated to be 8.1% and increased to 40% among HIV positive MSM who also injected drugs.\n\nVertical transmission is a significant contributor of new HBV cases each year, with 35–50% of transmission from mother to neonate in endemic countries. Vertical transmission occurs largely via a neonate's exposure to maternal blood and vaginal secretions during birth. While the risk of progression to chronic infection is approximately 5% among adults who contract the virus, it is as high as 95% among neonates subject to vertical transmission. The risk of viral transmission is approximately 10–20% when maternal blood is positive for HBsAg, and up to 90% when also positive for HBeAg.\n\nGiven the high risk of perinatal transmission, the CDC recommends screening all pregnant women for HBV at their first prenatal visit. It is safe for non-immune pregnant women to receive the HBV vaccine. Based on the limited available evidence, the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) recommends antiviral therapy in pregnant women whose viral load exceeds 200,000 IU/mL. A growing body of evidence shows that antiviral therapy initiated in the third trimester significantly reduces transmission to the neonate. A systematic review of the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry database found that there was no increased risk of congenital anomalies with Tenofovir; for this reason, along with its potency and low risk of resistance, the AASLD recommends this drug. A 2010 systematic review and meta-analysis found that Lamivudine initiated early in the third trimester also significantly reduced mother-to-child transmission of HBV, without any known adverse effects.\n\nThe ACOG states that the evidence available does not suggest any particular mode of delivery (i.e. vaginal vs. cesarean) is better at reducing vertical transmission in mothers with HBV.\n\nThe WHO and CDC recommend that neonates born to mothers with HBV should receive hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) as well as the HBV vaccine within 12 hours of birth. For infants who have received HBIG and the HBV vaccine, breastfeeding is safe.\n\nEstimates of the rate of HCV vertical transmission range from 2–8%; a 2014 systematic review and meta-analysis found the risk to be 5.8% in HCV-positive, HIV-negative women. The same study found the risk of vertical transmission to be 10.8% in HCV-positive, HIV-positive women. Other studies have found the risk of vertical transmission to be as high as 44% among HIV-positive women. The risk of vertical transmission is higher when the virus is detectable in the mother's blood.\n\nEvidence does not indicate that mode of delivery (i.e. vaginal vs. cesarean) has an effect on vertical transmission.\n\nFor women who are HCV-positive and HIV-negative, breastfeeding is safe; however, CDC guidelines suggest avoiding breastfeeding if a woman's nipples are \"cracked or bleeding\" to reduce the risk of transmission.\n\nPregnant women who contract HEV are at significant risk of developing fulminant hepatitis with maternal mortality rates as high as 20–30%, most commonly in the third trimester . A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis of 47 studies that included 3968 people found maternal case-fatality rates (CFR) of 20.8% and fetal CFR of 34.2%; among women who developed fulminant hepatic failure, CFR was 61.2%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1374627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374627", "title": "Hyperacusis", "text": "Hyperacusis\n\nHyperacusis (or hyperacousis) is a highly debilitating hearing disorder characterized by an increased sensitivity to certain frequencies and volume ranges of sound (a collapsed tolerance to usual environmental sound). A person with severe hyperacusis has difficulty tolerating everyday sounds, which become painful or loud.\n\n\"Hyperacusis\" is often coincident with tinnitus. Both conditions have a prevalence of about 10–15% and hearing loss as a major risk factor. However, there also appear to be important differences between the mechanisms involved in tinnitus and hyperacusis.\n\nIn hyperacusis, the symptoms are ear pain, annoyance, and general intolerance to many sounds that most people are unaffected by. Crying spells or panic attacks may result from the experience of hyperacusis. It may affect either or both ears. Hyperacusis can also be accompanied by tinnitus. Hyperacusis can result in anxiety, stress and phonophobia. Avoidant behaviour is often a response to prevent the effects of hyperacusis and this can include avoiding social situations.\n\nThe most common cause of hyperacusis is overexposure to excessively high decibel (sound pressure) levels.\n\nSome come down with hyperacusis suddenly as a result of taking ear sensitizing drugs, Lyme disease, Ménière's disease, head injury, or surgery. Others are born with sound sensitivity, develop superior canal dehiscence syndrome, have had a history of ear infections, or come from a family that has had hearing problems.\n\nSome psychoactive drugs such as LSD, methaqualone, or phencyclidine (\"angel-dust\") can cause hyperacusis. An antibiotic, ciprofloxacin has also been seen to be a cause, known as \"ciprofloxacin-related hyperacusis\".\n\nSome conditions that are associated with hyperacusis include: \nAs one important mechanism, adaptation processes in the auditory brain that influence the dynamic range of neural responses are assumed to be distorted by irregular input from the inner ear. This is mainly caused by hearing loss related damages in the inner ear.\n\nThe basic diagnostic test is similar to a normal audiogram. The difference is that additionally to the hearing threshold at each test frequency also the lowest uncomfortable sound level is measured. This level is called \"loudness discomfort level\" (LDL) or \"uncomfortable loudness level\" (ULL). In patients with hyperacusis this level is considerably lower than in normal subjects, and usually across most parts of the auditory spectrum.\n\nOne possible treatment for hyperacusis is retraining therapy which uses broadband noise. Tinnitus retraining therapy, a treatment originally used to treat tinnitus, uses broadband noise to treat hyperacusis. Pink noise can also be used to treat hyperacusis. By listening to broadband noise at soft levels for a disciplined period of time each day, patients can rebuild (i.e., re-establish) their tolerances to sound. Although patients might not always make a complete recovery, the use of broadband noise usually gives some of them a significant improvement in their symptoms, especially if this is combined with counseling.\n\nAnother possible treatment is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which may also be combined with retraining therapy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43751157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43751157", "title": "Legal death", "text": "Legal death\n\nLegal death is the recognition under the law of a particular jurisdiction that a person is no longer alive. In most cases, a doctor's declaration of death (variously called) or the identification of a corpse is a legal requirement for such recognition. A person who has been missing for a sufficiently long period of time (typically at least several years) may be presumed or declared legally dead, usually by a court. When a death has been registered in a civil registry, a death certificate may be issued. Such death certificate may be required in a number of legal situations, such as applying for probate, claiming some benefits or making an insurance claim, etc.\n\nMost legal determinations of death in the developed world are made by medical professionals who pronounce death when specific criteria are met. Two categories of legal death are death determined by irreversible cessation of heartbeat and breathing (cardiopulmonary death), and death determined by irreversible cessation of functions of the brain (brain death). In the United States, each state has laws for determining these two categories of death that are modeled after the Uniform Determination of Death Act.\n\nCardiopulmonary criteria for death are met when a physician determines that efforts to restart a stopped heart during cardiac arrest are futile, or that no attempt should be made to restart a stopped heart, such as when there is a Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) order. In the latter case, irreversible is understood to mean that heartbeat and breathing cannot return on their own and will not be restored by medical intervention.\n\nBrain death determinations are made in cases where breathing is supported by machines. Brain death is determined by there being no signs of brain function during neurological examination of a person with a beating heart. Confirmatory tests document either no blood flow to the brain, or no brain electrical activity in absence of factors known to produce reversible loss of brain function. Unlike cardiopulmonary death which sometimes involves a decision not to resuscitate the heart, brain death is a determination that the brain biologically cannot be resuscitated.\n\nIf a clinically dead person has suffered injuries so severe that resuscitation is obviously impossible, then in some jurisdictions first responders may make a legal determination of cardiopulmonary death. Such a person is said to be dead on arrival (DOA) or \"dead at the scene\".\n\nIn some cases, a person will be declared dead even without any remains or doctor's declaration. This is under one of two circumstances. First, if a person was known to be in mortal peril when last seen, they can often be declared dead shortly after. Examples would be the passengers of the \"Titanic\" that were not rescued after the ship sank. Second, if a person has not been seen for a certain period of time and there has been no evidence that they are alive. The amount of time that has passed varies by jurisdiction, from as little as four years in the US state of Georgia to twenty years in Italy.\n\nThere are three general categories where people may be falsely declared dead: by mistake, because of fraud, or as punishment for a crime.\n\nSometimes people who are declared dead return and are unable to be declared alive. One study estimated that every year, the U.S. Social Security Administration declares 12,200 alive citizens as dead.\n\n\nIn some cases, a legal declaration of death is fraudulent. Several people have faked their own deaths for various reasons. The most common reasons for this are to collect insurance money, to avoid capture by police or to avoid paying debts.\n\nAt times, people declare other people dead for some benefit to themselves. For example, Constantin Reliu, a Romanian man living in Turkey was declared dead by his wife so that she could remarry. In India, several people have been fraudulently declared dead by family members wishing to steal land and other property. The best known is Lal Bihari, who was fraudulently declared dead by family members, and was legally dead between 1975 and 1994. Bihari founded the Association of Dead People to help others in similar situations. Despite being victims of fraud, it often takes many years to reverse a fraudulent death declaration, and at times it never happens. Bihari didn't get his declaration of death reversed until 1994, 19 years later, and Reliu lost a court battle to be declared alive in 2018.\n\nHistorically, those who have committed crimes or other wrongs against the state have been declared legally dead despite being obviously alive. This is known as civil death. Such a person loses all rights normally granted a person. In jurisdictions that practiced civil death, it was legal to murder such a person, since they were not actually alive accordingly to the law, and therefore not actually killed.\n\nDetermining manner of death often has important legal implications. Governments elect a coroner or appoint a medical examiner, depending on jurisdiction, to both determine manner and cause of death, and if necessary, identify bodies when their identities are unknown. Manner of death is usually classified as natural, accidental, homicide, suicide, pending or undetermined. A soldier is often listed as killed in action if the death was during military service. There are legal implications to all of the classifications.\n\nIn nearly all jurisdictions, dead people do not have the right to own property. When a person dies, their property needs to be distributed to others in a process called probate. People can specify their wishes before they die by preparing a will and testament. If there is no will, the laws of their country determine how the property is distributed. In most cases, it would go to next of kin, such as a spouse or adult child. If the person who died is wealthy, often a portion of their property will be collected by an estate tax.\n\n"}
{"id": "9024384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9024384", "title": "List of UN numbers 0101 to 0200", "text": "List of UN numbers 0101 to 0200\n\nThe UN numbers from UN0101 to UN0200 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n"}
{"id": "13305713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305713", "title": "List of healthcare facilities in Brunei", "text": "List of healthcare facilities in Brunei\n\nThis is a list of healthcare facilities in Brunei. This list includes government and private hospitals, as well as community health centres in the country.\n"}
{"id": "37688324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37688324", "title": "List of orthotopic procedures", "text": "List of orthotopic procedures\n\nOrthotopic procedures (from Greek \"orthos\", straight + \"topos\", place) are those occurring at the normal place. Examples include:\n\nWhen organs are transplanted to a different anatomical location the procedure is said to be heterotopic (e.g. heterotopic heart transplantation).\n"}
{"id": "30750922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30750922", "title": "MaryAnn Lippert", "text": "MaryAnn Lippert\n\nMaryAnn T. Lippert (born December 21, 1953) is a Wisconsin health educator, health administrator, and Republican politician who served one term as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly. She is currently executive assistant to the Secretary of the Wisconsin Department of Children and Families.\n\nBorn in Marshfield, Wisconsin, Lippert graduated from Pittsville High School. She received a\nB.S. from the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse 1976, and an M.S. from the same university in 1980. She worked for many years as a health educator.\n\nIn 1998, she challenged fellow Pittsville resident and Democratic incumbent Donald W. Hasenohrl for the 70th Assembly District (portions of Portage and Wood counties) seat, coming close to defeating him (8,906 for Hasenohrl to 8,386 for Lippert) with $38,708 in campaign expenditures. Hasenohrl chose not to run for re-election in 2000, and Lippert defeated Democrat Amy Sue Vruwink by 104 votes (12,068 [50.2%] to 11,964 [49.8%]) in the 2000 general election, after spending $114,563.\n\nLippert served on the Assembly's Committees on Children and Families and Public Health (on both of which she served as Vice-Chair), as well as the Committees on Aging and Long-Term Care; Economic Development; Health; and Transportation.\n\nIn 2002, she chose not to run for re-election due to the health of her husband, Jerry, who was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which he atrributed to twenty years of smoking (he was a member of the state Tobacco Control Board). She was succeeded by Vruwink.\n\nAfter leaving the Assembly, Lippert went back to work in the health field. In February 2011, she was appointed as executive assistant to Eloise Anderson, the new Secretary of the Wisconsin Department of Children and Families, as part of the administration of incoming governor Scott Walker.\n\nLippert is a mother of three children, and is a long-term resident of Pittsville, Wisconsin, where she is a member of the Pittsville School District board of education.\n"}
{"id": "40993920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40993920", "title": "Metadoxine", "text": "Metadoxine\n\nMetadoxine, also known as pyridoxine-pyrrolidone carboxylate, is a drug used to treat chronic and acute alcohol intoxication. Metadoxine accelerates alcohol clearance from the blood.\n\nMetadoxine is an ion pair salt of pyridoxine and pyrrolidon carboxilate (PCA). Pyridoxine (vitamin B) is a precursor of coenzymes including pyridoxal 5’-phosphate (PLP), which accelerates the metabolic degradation of ethanol and prevents adenosine triphosphate (ATP) inactivation by acetaldehyde. Pyridoxal phosphate dependent enzymes also play a role in the biosynthesis of four important neurotransmitters: serotonin (5-HT), epinephrine, norepinephrine and GABA: see vitamin B functions. L-PGA is present in the diet and is produced endogenously by enzymatic conversion of gamma-glutamyl amino acids to L-PGA and free amino acids. In the central nervous system (CNS), L-PGA was found to have a role in composition of neuro-active molecules. Its production has been linked to hepatic gamma-glutamyl transferase activity and levels of reduced glutathione (GSH). Lastly, it was shown that L-PGA facilitates ATP synthesis by stimulating de novo synthesis of purines.\n\nAs a treatment for alcohol intoxication and liver disease, metadoxine is typically given intravenously as immediate release formulation.\n\nIn clinical studies, metadoxine has been reported to reduce half-life of ethanol in healthy volunteers and in acutely intoxicated patients; to accelerate the metabolism of alcohol and acetaldehyde into less toxic higher ketones and to improve their urinary clearance; to restore laboratory variables such as alcohol, ammonia, γ-GT, and alanine aminotransferase; and to improve clinical symptoms of alcohol intoxication, including psychomotor agitation, depression, aggressiveness, and equilibrium disorders. There is also evidence that metadoxine has an effect on reducing craving for alcohol. Data from clinical studies also support an effect of metadoxine on reducing indices of liver cell necrosis and fat accumulation in alcoholic fatty liver.\n\nMetadoxine may block the differentiation step of preadipocytes by inhibiting CREB phosphorylation and binding to the cAMP response element, thereby repressing CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein b during hormone-induced adipogenesis. Metadoxine, when given in an immediate release form in doses from 300 mg twice a day to 500 mg three times a day of up to 3 months, has been shown to improve biochemical indices of liver function as well as reduce ultrasonic evidence of fatty liver disease.\n\nMetadoxine is a selective antagonist of the serotonin receptor subtype 5-HT and displays high affinity to the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter. \"In vitro\" enzymatic assay revealed that metadoxine reduced the activity of the GABA transaminase enzyme, responsible for the degradation of GABA. Electrophysiological studies also showed that metadoxine increased inhibitory GABAergic synaptic transmission via a presynaptic effect. As it does not affect dopamine, norepinephrine or serotonin levels, metadoxine displays a novel mechanism of action as a monoamine-independent GABA modulator.\n\nIn animal studies, metadoxine increased the activity of acetaldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme, prevented the decrease in alcohol dehydrogenase activity in chronic ethanol-fed rats, accelerated plasma and urinary clearance of ethanol, inhibited the increase of fatty acid esters in the liver of ethanol-treated rats, prevented the formation of fatty liver in rats exposed to a dose of ethanol sufficient to induce fatty liver, increased glutathione levels in the hepatocytes of acutely and chronically alcohol-intoxicated rats, prevented glutathione depletion, lipid peroxidation damage, collagen deposition, and TNF-α secretions induced by alcohol and acetaldehyde in hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells.\n\nMetadoxine is predominantly used as metadoxine immediate release formulation in developing nations for acute alcohol intoxication and chronic alcoholic liver disease. Alternate names include:\n\nAttention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most common neurobehavioral disorders of childhood and is among the most prevalent chronic health conditions affecting school-aged children. The core symptoms of ADHD include inattention, difficulty staying focused, hyperactivity, and impulsivity.\n\nMetadoxine exhibited cognition enhancing effect in the rat social recognition animal model.\n\nAn extended release formulation of metadoxine (MDX), combining immediate and slow release formulations of metadoxine into a single oral dose, was developed to extend the half-life of the drug and to allow for the use of MDX in indications that require a longer therapeutic window, such as cognitive impairment-related disorders. MDX has demonstrated significant and clinically meaningful improvements in multiple measures of cognition, ADHD symptoms, and quality of life, across multiple studies of adults with ADHD.\n\nSeveral Phase II ADHD studies demonstrated a consistent signal of efficacy reaching statistical significance, as measured by neuropsychological testing (such as the computerized Test of Variables of Attention (TOVA) in acute settings) and clinical scales (in chronic administration studies), with no treatment-related serious adverse events or major differences in adverse events profiles between drug and placebo groups. The most common adverse events were nausea, fatigue, and headache. A phase 3 study in 300 adults with ADHD was completed in 2014.\n\nAlcobra Ltd., which was conducting the Phase III trial announced on January 17th 2017 that the drug had failed the trial. The failure announcement came a week after Alcobra won FDA agreement to review data collected to date in the MEASURE study and consider it in a future NDA submission of MDX for ADHD. The FDA also agreed to change a full clinical hold for the trial to a partial clinical hold pending review and approval of the company’s proposed protocol for a 6-month, Phase I study to assess the potential relevance of adverse findings observed in long-term animal studies of metadoxine in relation to human exposure, Alcobra said.\n\nFragile X syndrome (FXS) is a genetic disorder that is the most common single gene cause of intellectual disability and autism. Individuals with FXS often have a number of behavioral symptoms, including cognitive impairment, inattention, hyperactivity, impulsivity, autistic symptoms, shyness, aggression, anxiety, hand flapping, hand biting, and a high sensitivity to being touched. Autism spectrum disorder is seen in approximately 30% of males and 20% of females with FXS, and an additional 30% of FXS individuals display autistic symptoms without having the autism diagnosis. ADHD is commonly diagnosed in FXS and has been reported to occur in 59-80% of individuals with FXS.\n\nIn a FXS animal model (Fmr1 knockout mouse model), metadoxine treatment improved behavioral impairments of learning, memory, and social interaction and reversed the overactivation of the biomarkers Akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in blood and brain of juvenile and adult mice. Metadoxine also demonstrated restoration of abnormal neuronal morphology as well as reduced the exaggerated basal protein production, both implicated in the pathophysiology of FXS and presumed to be responsible for impaired learning and memory.\n\nThe safety and efficacy of MDX in adolescents and adults with FXS has been evaluated in a Phase II study, which was completed in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "27069314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27069314", "title": "Nursing in Germany", "text": "Nursing in Germany\n\nNursing in Germany is provided by different levels of professional and specialized practitioners. German-registered nurses are known as Gesundheits- und Krankenpfleger (\"health- and sickness carer\"). Previously, the official name for a nurse practicing in Germany was \"Krankenschwester\" (female) and \"Krankenpfleger\" (male).\n\nTo become registered as a nurse, an individual needs to take and pass an official state exam in nursing. Different departments (in [Baden-Württemberg] f.i. the \"Regierungspräsidium\") are responsible for registration in different locations of the country.\n\nIn most cases, nurses learn the profession in a special nursing school that is often connected to a hospital. Before matriculating, individuals are required to complete several weeks of practical training in a hospital setting. The nursing course is completed according to EU regulations, and is three years long, including around 2100 hours for theoretical knowledge and 2500 hours of practical training in different hospital settings.And then you can go to university to become a doctor if you want to.\n\nIn the first year of education, nurses are paid about 750-800 Euro per month. \nIn the second year of education, nurses are paid about 800-900Euro a month.\nIn the third and last year of education, nurses are paid about 930-1030 Euro a month.\n\nThere are some changes to be expected in the future as it is now possible to study nursing on a B.Sc. basis (mostly in universities of applied sciences). But individuals still need to pass the official state exam to become a registered nurse. Some universities offer a special program with local nursing schools wherein students earn the B.Sc. and accordant state registration. Some universities offer post-graduate studies leading to a master's degree and the possibility to continue studies for a Ph.D. degree.\n\nThere are also nursing helpers who attend a one-year program in nursing school. This may change again with the introduction of university nursing curricula.\n\nThere are different ways to specialize after the nursing schools, called \"Fachweiterbildung\". Salaries are typically higher with a \"Fachweiterbildung\". Specialization includes some 720–800 hours of theoretical education and practical training. In the end, there is a state exam or writing of a thesis. There are official two year specializations in:\n\nIt is possible for nurses to undergo a variety of shorter programs to continue learning and enhance their knowledge (e.g. wound management, oncology, palliative care, etc.).\n\nIn hospitals, there are mostly working registered nurses and nursing students. Registered nurses in Germany take care of the patients and there are different systems who and how the patients are treated: (a) taking care of a set of patients including all work that needs to be done or (b) taking care of the patients on a ward doing just one special function. Work includes \"planning\" based on the patients' needs and condition, \"documenting\", writing about the progress and current condition. \"Preparation of medication\" is in the hands of nurses and its \"application\": tablets, infusion etc. but not the i.v. application by syringe (except in the ICU). Blood samples and setup of venflos are not done by nurses (except in the ICU), but mostly done by students of medicine, even if it is in the curriculum. All basic care is done by registered nurses or coordinated and done by the nursing students. Special care like setting up urine catheters, nasogastric tubes, treatment of wounds and wound dressings are done by registered nurses or nurse students (under supervision).\n\nJob satisfaction is very low in Germany because of the heavy work-load, low salaries and a low appreciation of the nurse profession in the public. Even some politicians in the past claimed that \"everybody is able to nurse\". The nurse associations are working hard to achieve the acceptance for the installation of nursing chairs in universities but they are often undermined by politicians who are looking for the cheapest work force but not skilled and professional workers.\n\nIn Germany, all nurses who want to work in their nursing profession have to have their qualification recognized by applying for an \"Anerkennung\". This is through the official administrative body responsible for licensing health care professionals which varies from state to state. Requirements include: language proficiency of level B2 in German, registration with the Nursing Midwifery Council (NMC), evidence of nursing education (including an academic transcript and degree certificate which may need to be translated into German), evidence of current residence, evidence of allowance to work in the EU, and evidence that your Nursing education meets the \"EU Berufsanerkennungsrichtlinie/2005/36/EG\" standards.\n"}
{"id": "161856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161856", "title": "Ovulation", "text": "Ovulation\n\nOvulation is the release of eggs from the ovaries. In humans, this event occurs when the ovarian follicles rupture and release the secondary oocyte ovarian cells. After ovulation, during the luteal phase, the egg will be available to be fertilized by sperm. In addition, the uterine lining (endometrium) is thickened to be able to receive a fertilized egg. If no conception occurs, the uterine lining as well as blood will be shed during menstruation.\n\nIn humans, ovulation occurs about midway through the menstrual cycle, after the follicular phase. The few days surrounding ovulation (from approximately days 10 to 18 of a 28-day cycle), constitute the most fertile phase. The time from the beginning of the last menstrual period (LMP) until ovulation is, on average, 14.6 days, but with substantial variation between females and between cycles in any single female, with an overall 95% prediction interval of 8.2 to 20.5 days.\n\nThe process of ovulation is controlled by the hypothalamus of the brain and through the release of hormones secreted in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). In the preovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle, the ovarian follicle will undergo a series of transformations called cumulus expansion, which is stimulated by FSH. After this is done, a hole called the stigma will form in the follicle, and the secondary oocyte will leave the follicle through this hole. Ovulation is triggered by a spike in the amount of FSH and LH released from the pituitary gland. During the luteal (post-ovulatory) phase, the secondary oocyte will travel through the fallopian tubes toward the uterus. If fertilized by a sperm, the fertilized secondary oocyte or ovum may implant there 6–12 days later.\n\nThe follicular phase (or proliferative phase) is the phase of the menstrual cycle during which the ovarian follicles mature. The follicular phase lasts from the beginning of menstruation to the start of ovulation.\n\nFor ovulation to be successful, the ovum must be supported by the corona radiata and cumulus oophorous granulosa cells. The latter undergo a period of proliferation and mucification known as cumulus expansion. Mucification is the secretion of a hyaluronic acid-rich cocktail that disperses and gathers the cumulus cell network in a sticky matrix around the ovum. This network stays with the ovum after ovulation and has been shown to be necessary for fertilization.\n\nAn increase in cumulus cell number causes a concomitant increase in antrum fluid volume that can swell the follicle to over 20 mm in diameter. It forms a pronounced bulge at the surface of the ovary called the blister.\n\nEstrogen levels peak towards the end of the follicular phase. This causes a surge in levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). This lasts from 24 to 36 hours, and results in the rupture of the ovarian follicles, causing the oocyte to be released from the ovary.\n\nThrough a signal transduction cascade initiated by LH, proteolytic enzymes are secreted by the follicle that degrade the follicular tissue at the site of the blister, forming a hole called the \"stigma\". The secondary oocyte leaves the ruptured follicle and moves out into the peritoneal cavity through the stigma, where it is caught by the fimbriae at the end of the fallopian tube. After entering the fallopian tube, the oocyte is pushed along by cilia, beginning its journey toward the uterus.\n\nBy this time, the oocyte has completed meiosis I, yielding two cells: the larger secondary oocyte that contains all of the cytoplasmic material and a smaller, inactive first polar body. Meiosis II follows at once but will be arrested in the metaphase and will so remain until fertilization. The spindle apparatus of the second meiotic division appears at the time of ovulation. If no fertilization occurs, the oocyte will degenerate between 12 and 24 hours after ovulation. Approximately 1-2% of ovulations release more than one oocyte. This tendency increases with maternal age. Fertilization of two different oocytes by two different spermatozoa results in fraternal twins.\n\nThe mucous membrane of the uterus, termed the functionalis, has reached its maximum size, and so have the endometrial glands, although they are still non-secretory.\n\nThe follicle proper has met the end of its lifespan. Without the oocyte, the follicle folds inward on itself, transforming into the corpus luteum (pl. corpora lutea), a steroidogenic cluster of cells that produces estrogen and progesterone. These hormones induce the endometrial glands to begin production of the proliferative endometrium and later into secretory endometrium, the site of embryonic growth if implantation occurs. The action of progesterone increases basal body temperature by one-quarter to one-half degree Celsius (one-half to one degree Fahrenheit). The corpus luteum continues this paracrine action for the remainder of the menstrual cycle, maintaining the endometrium, before disintegrating into scar tissue during menses.\n\nThe start of ovulation can be detected by signs. Because the signs are not readily discernible by people other than the female, humans are said to have a concealed ovulation. In many animal species there are distinctive signals indicating the period when the female is fertile. Several explanations have been proposed to explain concealed ovulation in humans.\n\nFemales near ovulation experience changes in the cervical mucus, and in their basal body temperature. Furthermore, many females experience secondary fertility signs including Mittelschmerz (pain associated with ovulation) and a heightened sense of smell, and can sense the precise moment of ovulation.\n\nMany females experience heightened sexual desire in the several days immediately before ovulation. One study concluded that females subtly improve their facial attractiveness during ovulation.\nSymptoms related to the onset of ovulation, the moment of ovulation and the body's process of beginning and ending the menstrual cycle vary in intensity with each female but are fundamentally the same. The charting of such symptoms — primarily basal body temperature, mittelschmerz and cervical position — is referred to as the sympto-thermal method of fertility awareness, which allow auto-diagnosis by a female of her state of ovulation. Once training has been given by a suitable authority, fertility charts can be completed on a cycle-by-cycle basis to show ovulation. This gives the possibility of using the data to predict fertility for natural contraception and pregnancy planning.\n\nThe moment of ovulation has been photographed.\n\nDisorders of ovulation are classified as menstrual disorders and include oligoovulation and anovulation:\n\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) has developed the following classification of ovulatory disorders:\n\n\nOvulation induction is a promising assisted reproductive technology for patients with conditions such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and oligomenorrhea. It is also used in in vitro fertilization to make the follicles mature before egg retrieval. Usually, ovarian stimulation is used in conjunction with ovulation induction to stimulate the formation of multiple oocytes. Some sources include ovulation induction in the definition of \"ovarian stimulation\".\n\nA low dose of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) may be injected after completed ovarian stimulation. Ovulation will occur between 24–36 hours after the HCG injection.\n\nBy contrast, induced ovulation in some animal species occurs naturally, ovulation can be stimulated by coitus.\n\nContraception can be achieved by suppressing the ovulation.\n\nThe majority of hormonal contraceptives and conception boosters focus on the ovulatory phase of the menstrual cycle because it is the most important determinant of fertility. Hormone therapy can positively or negatively interfere with ovulation and can give a sense of cycle control to the female.\n\nEstradiol and progesterone, taken in various forms including combined oral contraceptive pills, mimics the hormonal levels of the menstrual cycle and engage in negative feedback of folliculogenesis and ovulation.\n\n\n\nOvulation Calculator== External links ==\n"}
{"id": "41917792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41917792", "title": "Patient navigators", "text": "Patient navigators\n\nPatient navigators educate and assist United States citizens in enrolling into health benefit plans stipulated in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). Patient navigators are also called \"insurance navigators\" or \"in-person assisters\" who have defined roles under the ACA. Although their roles might overlap, patient navigators are not community health workers or health advocates. \"Navigators\" work in states with Federally-Facilitated Exchanges (FFEs) or State Partnership Exchanges.\n\nUnder the ACA, a health insurance marketplace, or exchange, is required to develop and fund a patient navigator program. The patient navigator's primary role, as defined in section 1311, is to educate the public on information about health care plans, to facilitate enrollment into health plans, and provide information for tax credits and cost-sharing reductions. The education and information provided by patient navigators must be culturally and linguistically appropriate and provided in a fair and impartial manner. Patient navigators are required to meet standards and core proficiencies established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.\n\nPrior to certification and training, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) require that all navigator and non-navigator individuals or entities seeking to facilitate public enrollment in plans disclose information that may result in a conflict of interest to exchanges and consumers.\nThis information includes:\n\nIf a navigator or non-navigator does have a conflict of interest while serving in their respective roles, they are to provide a plan for mitigating these conflicts. Failure to submit a mitigation plan will result in the inability to serve as a navigator and promote ACA health plan benefits.\n\nThe ACA requires that all navigator and non-navigator personnel and entities be certified by the Federally-Facilitated Exchange or State Partnership Exchange through which they are funded. Certification is provided upon completion of a training program approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).\n\nNavigators and non-navigators must first register with their exchange prior to completing a training program and qualifying for certification. Certification entails:\nContinuing education and refresher trainings are also required to ensure that navigators and non-navigators remain appropriately trained and comply with their recertification requirements on at least an annual basis.\n\nTraining programs for navigators and non-navigators must be approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The Medicare Learning Network is the primary source of HHS-approved training materials. Other approved programs include the:\n\nState Exchanges may develop their own training programs, but they must also be approved by HHS. Training standards outlined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services include:\n\nTable 1. Summary of Training and Certification Required\nThe Affordable Care Act of 2010, Section 2703, created an optional Medicaid State Plan benefit for states to establish Health Homes to coordinate care for people with Medicaid who have chronic conditions by adding Section 1945 of the Social Security Act. CMS expects states health home providers to operate under a “whole-person” philosophy. Health Home providers will integrate and coordinate all primary, acute, behavioral health, and long-term services and supports to treat the whole person. \n\nA Health Home is a group of health and community agencies that have agreed to work together to help people with many health issues get what they need to keep them healthier and safer in the community. Each person who joins gets a “patient health navigator”. A patient health navigator will work closely with him/her to get the services he/she needs in his/her community. This service is being paid for through New York State Medicaid.\n\nThe Greater Buffalo United Accountable Healthcare Network (GBUAHN) was incorporated in 2009 by Raul Vazquez, M.D. as an Independent Physician Association (IPA) in Western New York. Many Medicaid beneficiaries suffer from multiple or severe chronic conditions and could potentially benefit from better coordination and management of the health and long-term services they receive, often in a costly disjointed and fragmented manner. The GBUAHN has adopted a strategy to achieve a more effective and efficient way to coordinate services to Medicaid participants. GBUAHN is a Lead Health Home with over 140 physician members located in Buffalo, Erie and other Western New York counties.\n\nThe GBUAHN is designed to be a person-centered system of care that facilitates access to and coordination of the full array of primary and acute physical health services, behavioral health care, and long-term community-based services and supports. Our Health Home model of service delivery expands on the traditional medical home models by building additional linkages and enhancing coordination and integration of medical and behavioral health care to meet the needs of people with multiple chronic illnesses. We emphasize comprehensive care in one setting, and we have the technology to diagnose a wide variety of medical conditions. \n\nThe goal of GBUAHN is to improve health care quality and clinical outcomes as well as the patient care experience, while also reducing per capita costs through more cost-effective care.\n\nGBUAHN was the first health home in the nation to receive NCQA accreditation in Case Management. Case management programs must prove they identify people in need of services, develop personalized care plans, monitor care goals to make adjustments when needed and manage communication among providers as people move between care settings. \n\nNCQA's mission is to improve health care for all Americans. \n\nSection 1311(i) of the Affordable Care Act requires that each exchange develop a grant program to fund Navigators, organizations or individuals who facilitate education and enrollment in qualified health plans. Exchanges and their grant programs must meet a minimum set of standards. There are two primary sources of funding for in-person outreach, education, and assistance for enrolling in exchange health plans.\n\nIn April 2013, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced a cooperative agreement to support navigators in Federally-Facilitated Exchanges or State-Partnership Exchanges. Up to $54 million from Prevention and Public Health Funds (PPHF) were initially set aside for funding navigators in all 34 states. Apportionment of funds were calculated based on the number of uninsured and non-elderly legal residents living in each state (with an FFE or State Partnership Exchange) divided by the total number of uninsured, non-elderly residents in all states with FFEs/State Partnership Exchanges. A minimum of $600,000 was available to all FFEs or State Partnership Exchanges to support navigation programs.\nApplicants eligible for this funding included entities, individuals, and consortia (any combination of two or more individuals, public organizations, or private organizations). Each applicant was eligible for one, non-renewable cooperative agreement award. Grant applications were reviewed based on the ranking of the application, scope of proposed activities, and total number and type of applications funded within each state. Each exchange must also have at least two different types of entities serve as navigators, \"one of which must be a community and consumer-focused non-profit group.\" (Affordable Care Act Section 1311(i), 45 C.F.R. § 155.210)\n\nOn August 15, 2013, HHS announced $67 million in grants to 105 groups that applied to provide navigation in Federally-Facilitated Exchanges and State Partnership Exchanges. An additional $13 million were transferred from the Prevention and Public Health Funds to boost the original $54 million dedicated to navigator funding earlier in the year. Navigator grantees included but were not limited to healthcare organizations and networks, non-profit organizations, universities, Indian tribes, faith-based institutions, and food banks.\n\n\nState Exchanges are prohibited from using section 1311(a) grant funds to fund navigator programs. However, State Exchanges and state partners in Consumer Partnership Exchanges can use section 1311(a) Exchange Establishment grants to fund non-navigator assistance programs such as in-person assistance programs. These non-navigator assistance programs \"help ensure that the Exchange is providing outreach, education, and assistance to as broad a range of consumers as possible so that all consumers can receive help when accessing health insurance coverage through an Exchange.\" \n\nA September 2013 Congressional Research Service report notes two key issues related to navigator and non-navigator funding.\n\nMany conservative states and members of Congress are demanding more oversight of patient navigator programs to protect consumers and their privacy. Others claim that passing laws to regulate navigators is an effort to hinder the implementation of the ACA. At least 16 states have enacted their own licensing and certification requirements in addition to federal requirements, which some suggest will reduce the availability of patient navigators. Some legislatures have also passed laws restricting the navigator's role, which can prevent navigators from performing some of their expected duties. States have passed various laws requiring navigator licenses, certifications, restrictions on offering advice, and burdensome financial requirements. As of September 2013, twelve states have required either a state license or certification, and eight states have restricted the type of advice navigators are able to offer to consumers.\n\nIn Texas, navigators are required to undergo a background check and fingerprinting, provide proof of identity, and 20 hours of state-specific training in addition to the 20 hours of online training required by federal rules. One navigator group estimated that the additional training could cost an additional $400 per navigator. Texas is among at least 17 Republican-controlled states that have restricted navigator groups awarded federal grants to assist consumers in obtaining insurance coverage in the Exchanges.\nIn Georgia, navigators must fulfill state licensure requirements and pass an insurance broker's test, despite clear distinctions between brokers and navigators under federal law. Unlike brokers and agents, navigators cannot receive compensation from insurance companies and are prohibited from promoting a specific insurance plan.\n\nOhio, Missouri, Georgia, and Tennessee have passed laws preventing navigators from offering information about the features of a specific health plan. These laws prevent navigators from clarifying distinctions between plans in order to help consumers make informed decisions on obtaining appropriate coverage.\n\nUtah, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Illinois require that navigators hold insurance or a surety bond against claims of wrongdoing or mistake. Federal regulations bar states from demanding navigators to maintain omissions or errors coverage.\n\nOn Jan 23, 2014, a federal judge ruled on a Missouri case saying that states that have Federally-Facilitated Exchanges cannot enact state regulations on top of the federal regulations.\n"}
{"id": "33441129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33441129", "title": "Pea protein", "text": "Pea protein\n\nPea protein is a food with a neutral taste that is used in dairy alternatives such as cheeses and yogurt. It is extracted from the yellow pea, \"Pisum sativum\", and has a typical legume amino acid profile. Pea protein isolates are used by meat-alternative manufacturers, such as Ben & Jerry's, Daiya, Gardein, Beyond Meat, Ripple Foods, and Just Mayo.\n\nThe genotype of the pea plants affects properties of the protein. Pea protein contains legumin, which has some similar properties to casein, and pea protein products are promoted as an alternative to whey protein. Some marketing of pea protein is based on consumer concerns around genetic modification of soy plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "238129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238129", "title": "Prostate massage", "text": "Prostate massage\n\nProstate massage is the massage or stimulation of the male prostate gland for medical purposes or sexual stimulation.\n\nThe prostate takes part in the sexual response cycle, and is essential for the production of semen. Due to its proximity to the anterior rectal wall, it can be stimulated from the anterior wall of the rectum or externally via the perineum.\n\nProstate massage is part of the digital rectal examination (DRE) routinely given to men by urologists in order to look for nodules of prostate cancer and to obtain an expressed prostatic secretion (EPS) specimen for microscopy and microbiological culture to screen for prostatitis.\n\nIn the late 1990s, a small number of doctors tried prostate massage in conjunction with antibiotics for the treatment of with uncertain results. In recent trials, however, prostate massage was not shown to improve outcomes compared to antibiotics alone. As a consequence of these findings, prostate massage is not officially sanctioned in western medicine for the treatment of any medical disorder today. Prostatic massage should \"never\" be performed on patients with , because the infection can spread elsewhere in the body if massage is performed.\n\nOnce the most popular therapeutic maneuver used to treat prostatitis, it was abandoned as primary therapy in the 1960s.\n\nIn the late 1990s the ineffectiveness of drug treatments for chronic prostatitis led to a brief resurgence of interest in prostate massage. In a recent trial, however, prostate massage was not shown to improve outcomes compared to antibiotics alone.\n\nThe practice is still used in some parts of China.\n\nVigorous prostate massage has been documented to have injurious consequences: periprostatic hemorrhage, cellulitis, septicaemia, possible disturbance and metastasis of prostate cancer to other parts of the body, and hemorrhoidal flare-up, and rectal fissures.\n\nElectroejaculation is a procedure in which nerves are stimulated via an electric probe, which is inserted into the rectum adjacent to the prostate. The stimulus voltage stimulates nearby nerves, resulting in contraction of the pelvic muscles and ejaculation. It is most commonly encountered in animal husbandry for the purpose of collecting semen samples for testing or breeding. Some devices are used under general anesthesia on humans who have certain types of anejaculation. Electroejaculation is a different procedure from manual prostate massage.\n\nProstate massage is also used for sexual stimulation, often in order to reach orgasm. It is possible for some men to achieve orgasms through prostate stimulation alone. The prostate is sometimes referred to as the \"male G-spot\" or P-spot. Some men can achieve orgasm through stimulation of the prostate gland, such as prostate massage or receptive anal intercourse, and men who report the sensation of prostate stimulation often give descriptions similar to females' accounts of G-spot stimulation. Prostate stimulation can produce a stronger, more powerful, and \"deeper\" orgasm than solely penile stimulation, described by some men as more widespread, intense, and enduring, and allowing for greater feelings of ecstasy than orgasm elicited by penile stimulation only. However, though the experiences are different, male orgasms by penile stimulation are also centered in the prostate gland.\n\nProstate massage may also be a sexual practice in couples' sexual lives, although not as common. The availability of equipment and products for prostate massage can encourage people to try it. Many couples, though, do not purchase such devices but use a finger for anal penetration and prostate stimulation to enhance the man's orgasm. The finger or the prostate massager is introduced into the rectum through the anus and the prostate gland is gently massaged. The main problem in using the finger is that it may be too short to reach the prostate gland. Prostate massage can be performed individually or with the help of a partner.\n\nThere are safety matters relating to prostate stimulation and anal penetration. It is strongly recommended that plenty of lubricant be used with prostate massagers to prevent rectal lining damage. A smaller instrument or finger may be introduced gradually to minimize the discomfort that some may feel. Massagers may be used with or without a condom; however, because of the bacteria found in the rectum, if a condom is not used, it is very important to clean the tool with soap before use in another orifice or by a partner. Receiving anal stimulation may cause feelings of having to evacuate. More often than not, this is just a sensation that the stimulation causes and may take some getting used to.\n\nA \"prostate massager\" is a device for massaging the prostate gland. The shape of a prostate massager is similar to a finger, since prostate massages are traditionally given digitally (for example, via fingering). They usually have a slightly curved head to effectively massage the prostate. Lubricant is necessary before inserting anything into the anus, so a lubricant is used. Caution should be exercised when a prostate massager is used because of the sensitivity of the prostate. Correct use involves a medium to light repetitive massage, or circular motion—the device being used to administer the massage should not thrust.\n\nProstate massage equipment ranges from dildos to butt plugs and G-Spot vibrators. When used in sexual practice, prostate massagers are commonly referred to as \"prostate toys\", \"prostate sex toys\", and \"anal toys\". These prostate massagers are inserted into the rectum through the anus and are intended to stimulate the prostate by simple massaging or vibrating. They are used during foreplay by many couples.\n\nProstate dildos are similar to vaginal dildos, but they tend to be more curved, slimmer and with a softer texture. Some of the new prostate dildos on the market are driven by batteries and offer vibration at the tip; the speed or intensity of which may be changed depending on the subject's personal preference. Unlike vaginal dildos, the anal prostate massager has a flared end to prevent it from being fully inserted and 'lost' inside the rectum.\n\nSome men prefer butt plugs, which are easy to use, can be inserted freely and left in place while the man's hands are free for other sexual activities such as masturbation. Anal plugs also come in various shapes, sizes and designs and are not commonly intended to stimulate the prostate. Newer, more angled models (second generation) of prostate massagers have been developed to provide a more direct and thorough massage of the prostate gland. These new devices feature a more curved shape and are slightly longer than the originals. They commonly have a narrow neck and a flared end to avoid losing them in the rectum. While many massagers rely upon the body's own natural muscular contractions of the anal sphincter and anal wall to stimulate the prostate, some of the newer models come with vibrators built into them to increase sexual pleasure.\n\nA G-spot vibrator can be used as a prostate massager as long as it is handled carefully and is provided with a safety base that will not allow it to be lost in the rectum. Vibrators for prostate stimulation usually have a pronounced curve at the end.\n"}
{"id": "4331263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4331263", "title": "R v Davidson", "text": "R v Davidson\n\nR v Davidson, also known (particularly among medical practitioners) as the Menhennitt ruling, was a significant ruling delivered in the Supreme Court of Victoria on 26 May 1969. It concerned the legality of abortion in the Australian state of Victoria. The ruling was not the end of the case, but rather answered certain questions of law about the admissibility of evidence, so as to allow the trial to proceed.\n\nIn the ruling, Justice Menhennitt ruled that abortion might be lawful if necessary to protect the physical or mental health of the woman, provided that the danger involved in the abortion did not outweigh the danger which the abortion was designed to prevent. It was the first ruling on the legality of abortion in any part of Australia. The principles put forward by Justice Menhennitt have since been drawn upon in other parts of the country.\n\nCharles Davidson, a medical doctor, was charged with four counts of unlawfully using an instrument to procure the miscarriage of a woman, and one count of conspiring to do the same, offences prohibited in the Victorian Crimes Act 1958. When Justice Menhennitt gave this ruling, the trial had been going for eight days. The prosecution was about to call expert medical testimony, and Menhennitt anticipated that the admissibility of that evidence might be challenged, so he decided to rule on certain questions of law in advance.\n\nThe relevant section of the Crimes Act, section 65, stated that:\nWhosoever... with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman whether she is or is not with child unlawfully administers to her or causes to be taken by her any poison or other noxious thing, or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means with the like intent, shall be guilty of a felony, and shall be liable to imprisonment for a term of not more than fifteen years.\n, the only subsequent change to this law is in the classification of the crime, from felony to indictable offence. The remainder of the wording remains the same. Menhennitt discussed the background of the section, saying that it was drawn from an 1861 English law, the Offences against the Person Act 1861, which in turn derived from English laws from 1837, 1828 and 1803.\n\nThe main issue to be considered was what the word \"unlawfully\" meant in this context. Justice Menhennitt noted that the inclusion of the word implied that some abortions might be lawful. The word \"unlawfully\" had also appeared in the earlier English legislation from which the Victorian law had derived, and the same word was also used in earlier common law indictments. The word was not defined in any of those statutes, although in the United Kingdom the Abortion Act 1967 had been passed in the meantime, which provided a definition of when abortions were lawful. That legislation had no equivalent in Victoria however, and \"unlawfully\" remained undefined.\n\nThe only case that had specifically considered what \"unlawfully\" meant in the context of abortion was a 1938 English case heard in the Courts of Assize, \"R v Bourne\". In that case, Dr Bourne was charged with the crime of abortion under section 58 of the Offences Against The Person Act 1861 (the same section on which the Victorian law drew). During his summing up, the trial judge instructed the jury that \"no person ought to be convicted [of the crime of abortion] unless the jury are satisfied the act was not done in good faith for the purpose only of preserving the life of the mother.\" The trial judge said that first this was the appropriate definition of abortion at common law, and secondly that although particular wording did not appear in the definition of the crime of abortion, it did appear in the definition of the crime of child destruction (which applies when a person kills a child during childbirth), and that the word \"unlawfully\" in the definition of abortion implied that the wording should also apply to abortion.\n\nThe trial judge continued, saying:\nI think those words ought to be construed in a reasonable sense, and, if the doctor is of opinion, on reasonable grounds and with adequate knowledge, that the probable consequence of the continuance of the pregnancy will be to make the woman a physical or mental wreck, the jury are quite entitled to take the view that the doctor who, under those circumstances and in that honest belief, operates, is operating for the purpose of preserving the life of the mother.\n\nJustice Menhennitt described why the proviso from the definition of child destruction in the English legislation should also apply to the definition of abortion, by pointing out that under another provision of the same law, abortion was an alternative charge to child destruction and vice versa (that is, the jury could choose to substitute one charge for the other). As such, there was a strong argument to say that the same proviso should apply to both.\n\nHowever, as Justice Menhennitt pointed out, the Victorian definition of child destruction (in section 10 of the Crimes Act) does not include the proviso in the English legislation; instead, it simply says \"unlawfully\". As such, that argument would not apply in Victoria, and \"what is lawful and what is unlawful must be determined by other legal principles.\"\n\nJustice Menhennitt then considered a discussion of \"R v Bourne\" by Glanville Williams, in his book \"The Sanctity of Life and the Criminal Law\", in which Williams said:\nThe judge's direction to the jury, which resulted in Mr. Bourne's acquittal, is a striking vindication of the legal view that the defence of necessity applies not only to common law but even to statutory crimes. It is true that the direction proceeded in some slight degree on the analogy of the child destruction statute, which contains an express exemption for the preservation of the life of the mother; but the exception in the one statute was not in itself a ground for reading a similar exception into the other.\nOn this basis, although there were differences in the Victorian legislation, the definition in \"R v Bourne\" of \"unlawfully\" in the context of abortion could indeed be useful in Victoria, if recognised as an expression of the common law defence of necessity.\n\nJustice Menhennitt discussed various definitions of necessity, noting that the concepts of necessity and proportion are usually present. He also quoted a test for necessity laid down by a previous decision of the Supreme Court of Victoria in \"R v MacKay\", a case about the killing of an escaping prisoner:\n...the test laid down by the law today for determining whether the homicide is justifiable or not is a twofold test which may be stated in this form: (1) Did the accused honestly believe on reasonable grounds that it was necessary to do what he did in order to prevent the completion of the felony or the escape of the felon? and (2) Would a reasonable man in his position have considered that what he did was not out of proportion to the mischief to be prevented?\nIn the context of abortion under Victorian law, this principle of necessity would mean that anyone performing a termination would have to have an honest and reasonable belief that conducting the termination was necessary to prevent some serious harm from occurring to the woman. Thus the test would be a subjective one, with the requirement that the beliefs be held reasonably.\n\nJustice Menhennitt decided in favour of using the principle of necessity to give substance to \"unlawfulness\" in this context. He expressed a test for deciding whether a termination would be unlawful or not in this way:\nFor the use of an instrument with intent to procure a miscarriage to be lawful the accused must have honestly believed on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was (a) necessary to preserve the woman from a serious danger to her life or her physical or mental health (not being merely the normal dangers of pregnancy and childbirth) which the continuance of the pregnancy would entail; and (b) in the circumstances not out of proportion to the danger to be averted.\n\nThe trial proceeded, and Davidson was found not guilty by the jury on all five charges, on 3 June 1969.\n\nThe primary significance of the decision was that it referred to both physical and mental health of the mother as a factor in a lawful abortion.\n\nThe principles in the ruling were largely adopted in the state of New South Wales by the District Court of New South Wales in 1971 in the case of \"R v Wald\", which also involved the prosecution of a doctor for performing a termination. That case expanded the definition slightly, by pointing out that \"it would be for the jury to decide whether there existed in the case of each woman any economic, social or medical ground or reason which in their view could constitute reasonable grounds upon which an accused could honestly and reasonably believe there would result a serious danger to her physical or mental health\". In the state of Queensland, the principles in the Menhennitt ruling were cited in the 1986 case of \"R v Bayliss & Cullen\". In the other states, and in the Northern Territory (but not the Australian Capital Territory), legislation has been adopted to define which abortions are legal and which are not.\n\nIn 1974, the Whitlam government provided that Medibank (now called Medicare) benefits could be paid to women who underwent a termination procedure. In 1979, however, there was a motion in the Australian House of Representatives from Stephen Lusher to end medical benefits for terminations, and the debate spilled over to the legality of abortion. Although the decisions in \"Davidson\" and \"Wald\" were fiercely criticised by some members of parliament, who insisted that abortion was still illegal, others defended the validity of the decisions. Former Prime Minister Billy McMahon said \"it has been stated rather foolishly, by a member not very closely attuned to the law - that there has been no appeals. But there could have been an appeal. There was no restriction in either State, Liberal Country Party or Labor government as to appeal.\"\n\nDespite some disquiet from the anti-abortion lobby, no appeals have been lodged against the Menhennitt ruling or the other decisions, and in most states there have been no successful prosecutions for consensual abortion since those decisions. Anti-abortion writers contend that most abortions remain illegal, and that the courts and the prosecutors are lax in protecting the rights of unborn children. Other commentators argue that calling abortion technically illegal is incorrect, or otherwise pointless, since that is \"a meaningless category in law.\"\n\nIn 2008, after a conscience vote in the Victorian parliament, legislation reforming abortion laws was passed. The new law legalizes abortion on request up to 24 weeks pregnancy; after that time, two doctors must certify that they \"reasonably believe that the abortion is appropriate in all the circumstances\", with those circumstances encompassing \"all relevant medical circumstances; and the woman's current and future physical, psychological and social circumstances.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43616736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43616736", "title": "Rangil water treatment plant", "text": "Rangil water treatment plant\n\nRangil water treatment plant is situated on rangil mountain of Ganderbal district about 21 km from commercial centre of Kashmir.\n\nThe project was completed by Economic Reconstruction Agency (ERA) and was handed over to Public Health Engineering department of Kashmir on the same day. The main aim of the project was to provide fresh drinking water to the people of Srinagar. The construction company under Rangil water supply project has liad 51.63 km long pipeline which has been tested for efficiency across the city.\n\nThe filtration plant has water storing capacity of 10 MGD (million gallons per day). The water in the plant comes from Sind River which runs through the heart of Ganderbal district. The water treatment plant is also installed with electromagnetic and mechanical flow meters at the control room of the plant and at bifurcation points to regulate water supply as per demand.\nThe water entering the plant at the first place undergoes screening and after that alum is added to aid sedimentation. The setter water enters 10 filtration units from where it is transported for disinfection using chlorine in disinfection unit. The water thus obtained is stored in storage reserviours for supply purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "3297506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3297506", "title": "Richard Warshak", "text": "Richard Warshak\n\nRichard A. Warshak (born December 18, 1949) is an American clinical and research psychologist and author. He is best known for his expertise on divorce, child custody, and parental alienation. Warshak has written three books, \"The Custody Revolution\", \"Divorce Poison: Protecting the Parent-Child Bond From a Vindictive Ex\", and the revised edition, \"Divorce Poison: How to Protect Your Family from Bad-mouthing and Brainwashing\". He appears in the PBS documentary \"Kids and Divorce\".\n\nWarshak graduated from Brooklyn's Midwood High School in 1966 and received his B.S. degree from Cornell University in 1971. Warshak received his Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (formerly the UT Health Science Center) in 1978. He is a past Clinical Professor of Psychology in the Department of Psychiatry at UT Southwestern.\n\nWarshak's doctoral dissertation, \"The Effects of Father Custody and Mother Custody on Children's Personality Development\", was the first study to directly compare children growing up in father-custody homes to children growing up in mother-custody homes. Warshak collaborated with John Santrock on the Texas Custody Research Project, a series of studies on the effects of different custody dispositions and stepfamilies, partially funded by the National Institute of Mental Health.\n\nWarshak's studies on father and mother custody, remarriage, relocation, parenting plans for young children, the American Law Institute's approximation rule, children's preferences in custody disputes and parental alienation appear in 13 books and more than 75 articles. Warshak's studies are cited often in the professional literature and in case law and legislatures throughout the world.\n\nIn 2014 the American Psychological Association published Warshak’s paper, \"Social Science and Parenting Plans for Young Children: A Consensus Report\", in the journal Psychology, Public Policy, and Law. The paper was endorsed by 110 researchers and practitioners who added their names to the paper, “a rare occurrence in social science.” The endorsers, from fifteen countries, include the world’s leading authorities in early child development, parent-child relationships, and divorce. The paper has been translated into more than eighteen languages and has informed parliamentary deliberations in several countries including the U.K., Canada, Israel, Finland, and Sweden.\n\nWarshak was a founding member and past president of the Dallas Society for Psychoanalytic Psychology and was the founding editor of the DSPP Bulletin.\n\nWarshak has several op-ed columns published in U.S. newspapers, and in 2010 he was one of the original team of authors invited to launch the Divorce section of the \"Huffington Post.\"\n\nHe was one of the four contributors selected to inaugurate the Child and Family Blog co-sponsored by Princeton University, Brookings Institution, University of Cambridge, and the Jacobs Foundation.\n\nWarshak's 2010 set of three articles on Family Bridges: A Workshop for Troubled and Alienated Parent-Child Relationships triggered a resurgence of interest among professionals in parental alienation and prompted the \"Family Court Review\" to devote a whole issue to the problem.\n\nWarshak analyses the controversy about whether a child's unreasonable alienation from a parent constitutes a syndrome and presents arguments both for and against the use of the term, parental alienation syndrome, in court.\n\nWarshak stresses the importance of understanding the multiple roots of parental alienation and the various factors, including the behavior of the rejected parent, that contribute to the origin and maintenance of a child’s unreasonable alienation or estrangement from a parent.\n\nBecause of the emotional and financial costs of severe irrational alienation, and the obstacles to its alleviation, Warshak emphasizes the importance of directing educational resources and judicial efforts to the goals of prevention and early identification of children at risk. The DVD he co-authored and co-produced, \"Welcome Back, Pluto: Understanding, Preventing, and Overcoming Parental Alienation\", is the first such program for children, teens, and young adults who are alienated or at risk for becoming alienated. In addition to education, Warshak stresses the importance of courts' rapid and effective enforcement of orders related to children's contact with both parents.\n\n\n\n\nAs an international media guest commentator Warshak has contributed to segments on more than 75 topics including celebrity divorces, custody disputes, parental alienation, child abuse, stepfamilies, child psychology and parenting, and helping children cope with fears and trauma. He has been interviewed by the major television networks in the U.S., and in Canada, England, and Germany, including ABC 20/20, NBC Today, Dateline NBC, CBS, CNN, BBC, CTV, Fox, Geraldo, and CourtTV. His work has been featured in international print media in the U.S., Australia, Canada, Columbia, England, Germany, Israel, Italy, New Zealand, and Scotland, including \"The New York Times\" (Sunday front page story), \"The Washington Post\" (cover story), \"USA Today\" (cover story), London Sunday Telegraph, \"Il Giornale\" (Italy), \"Toronto Star\", \"The Globe and Mail\" (editorial, front page, & Life section), \"Maclean's\" (Canada), \"The Age\" (Australia), and \"Time\" magazine (1980), 2004, and 2011.\n"}
{"id": "13072281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13072281", "title": "Seeing pink elephants", "text": "Seeing pink elephants\n\n\"Seeing pink elephants\" is a euphemism for drunken hallucination caused by alcoholic hallucinosis or delirium tremens. The term dates back to at least the early 20th century, emerging from earlier idioms about snakes and other creatures. An alcoholic character in Jack London's 1913 novel \"John Barleycorn\" is said to hallucinate \"blue mice and pink elephants\".\n\nFor many decades before \"pink elephant\" became the standard drunken hallucination, people were known to \"see snakes\" or \"see snakes in their boots.\" Beginning in about 1889, and throughout the 1890s, writers made increasingly elaborate modifications to the standard \"snakes\" idiom. They changed the animal to rats, monkeys, giraffes, hippopotamuses or elephants – or combinations thereof; and added color – blue, red, green, pink – and many combinations thereof. \n\nIn 1896, for example, in what may be the earliest recorded example of a (partially) pink elephant, one of Henry Wallace Phillips' \"Fables of our Times\" referred to a drunken man seeing a \"pink and green elephant and the feathered hippopotamus.\" In 1897, a humorous notice about a play entitled \"The Blue Monkey,\" noted that, \"We have seen it. Also the pink elephant with the orange trunk and the yellow giraffe with green trimmings. Also other things.\"\n\nAn early literary use of the term is by Jack London in 1913, who describes one kind of alcoholic, in the autobiographical \"John Barleycorn\":\nThere are, broadly speaking, two types of drinkers. There is the man whom we all know, stupid, unimaginative, whose brain is bitten numbly by numb maggots; who walks generously with wide-spread, tentative legs, falls frequently in the gutter, and who sees, in the extremity of his ecstasy, blue mice and pink elephants. He is the type that gives rise to the jokes in the funny papers.\n\n\"Pink elephants\" became the dominant animal of drunken-hallucination choice by about 1905, although other animals and other colors were still regularly invoked. \"Seeing snakes\" or \"seeing snakes in one's boots\" was in regular use into the 1920s.\n\nA well-known reference to pink elephants occurs in the 1941 Disney animated film \"Dumbo\". Having taken a drink of water from a bucket spiked with champagne, Dumbo and Timothy begin to hallucinate singing and dancing elephants in a segment known as \"Pink Elephants on Parade\".\n\nPink elephants do exist in nature, as it is possible for albino elephants to be pink, as well as white.\n\nThe association between pink elephants and alcohol is reflected in the name of various alcoholic drinks. There are various cocktails called \"Pink Elephant\", and The Huyghe Brewery put a pink elephant on the label of its Delirium Tremens beer.\n\nIn 2008, Republican vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin used the phrase \"pink elephants\" to refer to conservative women such as herself, Carly Fiorina, Sue Lowden and Jane Norton (referencing the elephant being the symbol of the Republican Party and pink being a stereotypical feminine color).\n"}
{"id": "57575543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57575543", "title": "Shahina Pardhan", "text": "Shahina Pardhan\n\nShahina Pardhan is the Director of the Vision and Eye Research Unit and the Anglia Ruskin University School of Medicine. She was the first woman to be appointed Professor of Optometry in the United Kingdom.\n\nPardhan was born in Tanzania and moved to Yorkshire when she was 18 years old. Pardhan graduated from the University of Bradford in 1984. She was awarded the Yorkshire Optical Society's \"Best Student Prize\". She received a scholarship from the College of Optometrists and began her graduate studies, earning a doctorate in 1989.\n\nPardhan joined the University of Bradford, where she was the only woman lecturer. On her first day she was told that she \"couldn’t go into the staff common room because secretaries weren’t allowed\". In 1993 she was the first woman to be appointed Professor of Optometry and first Asian woman to become Professor of any discipline in the UK. Pardhan joined Anglia Ruskin University as a Professor in 2001. She won the Asian Woman of Achievement Award in 2001, an award presented by Cherie Blair. In 2005 she was awarded the Asian Jewel Award. In 2009 Pardhan was appointed Director of the Vision and Eye Research Institute. Her research focuses on low vision and the difficulties that people suffering with low vision face, including mobility and recreational activities.\n\nIn 2015 Pardhan was awarded the Vice Chancellor's award for strategic leadership. She was an invited speaker at the Aspian Pacific Optometry Congree in Kuala Lumpur in 2015. She was the keynote speaker at the 2017 launch of Women in Vision, a networking group for women working on vision in the UK. She led a joint conference with Southern University of Science and Technology to discuss audio and visual impairment.\n"}
{"id": "38946504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38946504", "title": "Soil-transmitted helminthiasis", "text": "Soil-transmitted helminthiasis\n\nSoil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH) is a type of helminth infection (helminthiasis) caused by different species of roundworms. It is caused specifically by those worms which are transmitted through soil contaminated with faecal matter and are therefore called soil-transmitted helminths. Three types of soil-transmitted helminthiasis can be distinguished: ascariasis, hookworm infection and whipworm infection. These three types of infection are therefore caused by the large roundworm \"A. lumbricoides, \"the hookworms\" Necator americanus \"or\" Ancylostoma duodenale\" and by the whipworm \"Trichuris trichiura\".\n\nIt has become the most common parasitic disease of humans worldwide. Approximately two billion people (about a third of global population) are infected as of the latest estimate, and four billion at risk, surpassing even the all-time most prevalent parasitic disease, malaria. The largest numbers of cases occur in impoverished rural areas of Sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, Southeast Asia, and China. Its main cause, like for many types of helminth infections, is lack of sanitation, such as the practice of open defecation and lack of hygiene such as hand washing. It is regarded as one of the world's most important causes of intellectual and physical retardation.\n\nThe helminthic disease is so named because the infection is transmitted through ingestion of the nematode eggs in the soil, which is contaminated through excrements. Therefore, the disease is most prevalent in warm and moist climates where sanitation and hygiene are poor and waters are unsafe, including the temperate zones during warmer months. STH is categorised among neglected tropical diseases because it inflicts tremendous disability and suffering, which can be clinically treated and relatively easily be prevented (primarily through improved sanitation), yet negligible attention has been given for many years. It is now among the target diseases of \"London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases\" (launched on 30 January 2012) to be controlled/eradicated by 2020.\n\nSimple prevention and control strategies are access to improved sanitation, public awareness on personal hygiene and health education.\n\nSymptoms becomes evident only when the intensity of infection is relatively high. Thus the degree of negative outcomes is directly related to worm burden; more worms means greater severity of disease.\n\nMost conditions of STH have a light worm burden and usually have no discernible symptoms. Heavy infections however cause a range of health problems, including abdominal pain, diarrhoea, blood and protein loss, rectal prolapse, and physical and mental retardation.\n\nSevere ascariasis is typically a pneumonia, as the larvae invades lungs, producing fever, cough and dyspnoea during early stage of infection.\n\nHookworm infections insinuate a skin reaction (dermatitis), increased white blood cells (eosinophils), a pulmonary reaction (pneumonitis), and skin rash (urticarial).\n\nIron deficiency anaemia due to blood loss is a common symptom.\n\nSTH is often associated with malnutrition in children as it worsens their nutritional status in multiple ways. The worms can induce intestinal bleeding, competition for nutrients (malabsorption of nutrients), frequent anaemia and diarrhoea. Soil-transmitted helminths can also cause loss of appetite. These nutritional \"knock on\" effects of STH can have a significant impact on the mental and physical development of children. In endemic countries, communities remain suppressed due to malnourishment, cognitive disability and physical weaknesses as a result of heavy infections.\n\nSoil-transmitted helminths are essentially intestinal parasites and their eggs are liberated along the faeces of infected persons into the soil. \"Ascaris\" and hookworm eggs become infective as they develop into larvae in soil. Infection occurs when vegetables and fruits, contaminated with soil infested eggs, are consumed; or when hands or fingers have been contaminated with dirt carrying the eggs are put in the mouth. On the other hand, hookworm eggs are not directly infective. They hatch in soil, releasing mobile larvae that can penetrate the skin. Thus infection is acquired through accidental contact with contaminated soil.\n\nAscariasis of STH is caused by the large roundworm \"A. lumbricoides\". It is estimated to be the most widespread STH, affecting approximately 1 billion people. The victims constitute about half of the populations in tropical and subtropical areas. Most conditions are mild and often show little or no symptoms. Heavy infections however are debilitating, causing severe intestinal blockage and impair growth in children. Children, compounded with malnutrition, are most infected, with the most common age group being 3 to 8 year olds, with an annual death of about 20,000. Children are more susceptible due to their frequent exposure to contaminated environment such as during playing, eating raw vegetables and fruits, and drinking wastewater.\n\nHookworm infection of STH is caused by \"N. americanus\" and \"A. duodenale\". Mild infections produce diarrhoea and abdominal pain. More severe infections can create serious health problems for newborns, children, pregnant women, and malnourished adults. In fact it is the leading cause of anaemia and protein deficiency in developing nations, affected an estimated 740 million people. \"N. americanus\" is the more common hookworm, while \"A. duodenale\" is more geographically restricted. Unlike other STHs, in which school-age children are most affected, high-intensity hookworm infections are more frequent in adults, specifically women. Roughly, 44 million pregnant women are estimated to be infected. The disease causes severe adverse effects in both the mother and infant, such as low birth weight, impaired milk production, and increased risk of mortality.\n\nWhipworm (\"Trichuris trichiura\") is the third most common STH-causing nematode in humans. According to current estimate, nearly 800 million people are infected, and majority of the victims are children. Heavy infections could lead to acute symptoms such as diarrhoea and anaemia, and chronic symptoms such as growth retardation and impaired cognitive development. Medical conditions are more often serious since coinfection with protozoan parasites such as \"Giardia\" and \"Entamoeba histolytica\", and with other nematodes is common. Predominantly a tropical disease of developing countries, trichuriasis is quite common in the United States.\n\nFor basic diagnosis, specific helminths can be generally identified from the faeces, and their eggs microscopically examined and enumerated using fecal egg count method. However, there are certain limitations such as the inability to identify mixed infections, and on clinical practice, the technique is inaccurate and unreliable.\nA novel effective method for egg analysis is the Kato-Katz technique. It is a highly accurate and rapid method for \"A. lumbricoides\" and \"T. trichiura\"; however not so much for hookworm, which could be due to fast degeneration of the rather delicate hookworm eggs.\n\nPrevention and control measures to prevent soil-transmitted helminthiasis are the following: availability of clean water for personal and domestic uses, improved access to sanitation which includes the use of properly functioning and clean toilets by all community members, education on personal hygiene such as hand washing and hygienic and safe food preparation; eliminating the use of untreated human faeces as fertilizer.\n\nThe World Health Organizations recommended albendazole or mebendazole for treatment.\n\nOne strategy to control the disease in areas where it is common is the treatment of entire groups of people regardless of symptoms via mass drug administration. This is often done among school-age children and is known as mass deworming. While testing and treating children who are infected looks like it is effective, there is insufficient evidence to conclude that routine deworming, in the absence of a positive test, improves nutrition, haemoglobin, school attendance or school performance.\n\nFor this purpose, broad-spectrum benzimidazoles such as mebendazole and albendazole are the drugs of choice recommended by WHO. These anthelminthics are administered in a single dose are safe, relatively inexpensive, and effective for several months. Mebendazole can be given with a single dose twice a day for three consecutive days. Albendazole is given at a single dose. WHO recommends annual treatment in areas where between 20 and 50% of people are infected, and a twice a year treatment if it is over 50%; and in low risk situation (i.e. less than 20% prevalence) case-by-case treatment. In addition to these, pyrantel pamoate is also equally effective on ascaris. However, it has been reported that albendazole, mebendazole, and pyrantel pamoate are not entirely effective against \"T. trichiura\" with single oral doses in population-based control.\n\nIn cases of coinfection, combination therapy with ivermectin and diethylcarbamazine is advocated. However coinfection with malaria and HIV, especially among African women, does not respond well to the current combination therapies. It is more pressing for trichuriasis that the recommended drugs fail to provide positive results. A novel drug tribendimidine, which was approved in China by the CCDC for human use in 2004, has been subjected to clinical trials showing that they are highly effective against major human flukes, ascaris (>90% cure rate) and hookworm (>82%); however with low cure rate for whipworm (<37%).\n\nIn some severe cases of ascariasis the numbers of Ascaris worms can cause intestinal obstruction requiring emergency surgery. The obstruction may be due to a collected mass of worms or to a twisting of the intestine. During the surgery the worms may be manually removed.\n\nInfections are widely distributed in tropical and subtropical areas, with the greatest numbers occurring in sub-Saharan Africa, the Americas, China and east Asia.\n\nThe World Health Organization estimates that globally more than 1.5 billion people (24% of the total population) have a soil-transmitted helminth infection. Over 270 million preschool-age children and over 600 million school-age children live in areas where these parasites are intensively transmitted, and are in need of treatment and preventive interventions. Latest estimates indicate that more than 880 million children are in need of treatment from STH infections.\n\nBy type of parasitic worm the breakdown is:\n\nLatest estimates indicate that the total annual death toll which is directly attributable is as high as 135,000. The death toll due to the malnutrition link is likely to be much higher.\n\n"}
{"id": "52918874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52918874", "title": "Steven James Bartlett", "text": "Steven James Bartlett\n\nSteven James Bartlett (born 1945) is an American philosopher and psychologist notable for his studies in epistemology and the theory of reflexivity, and for his work on the psychology of human aggression and destructiveness, and the shortcomings of psychological normality. His findings challenge the assumption that psychological normality should serve as a standard for good mental health. He is the author or editor of more than 20 books and research monographs as well as many papers published in professional journals in the fields of epistemology, psychology, mathematical logic, and philosophy of science.\n\nBartlett was born in Mexico City. He is the son of American author and artist Paul Alexander Bartlett and his wife, American poet Elizabeth Bartlett. Steven James Bartlett received his B.A. in 1965 from Raymond College, an Oxford-style honors college of the University of the Pacific, his M.A. in philosophy in 1968 from the University of California, Santa Barbara, his Ph.D. in philosophy in 1971 from the Université de Paris, and later engaged in postdoctoral study in clinical psychology at Saint Louis University, 1975–77, and Washington University in St. Louis, 1983-84.\n\nPrior to high school, Bartlett attended schools both in the United States and in Mexico while his father undertook a study of some 350 haciendas throughout Mexico. Bartlett showed exceptional aptitude, skipping a grade in grammar school, attending college concomitantly while still in high school, and completing his undergraduate degree in three years, followed by a succession of scholarships and fellowships during undergraduate and graduate study.\n\nBartlett served as professor at the University of Florida, 1971–72, and at the University of Hartford, 1972–74; was appointed research fellow at the Max-Planck-Institut zur Erforschung der Lebensbedingungen der wissenschaftlich-technischen Welt in Starnberg, Germany, 1974–75; served as consultant for the RAND-National Science Foundation Project in Regional Analysis and Management of Environmental Systems, 1975–78; served as professor at Saint Louis University, 1975–84; was Associate Editor of \"The Modern Schoolman\", 1975–84, Member of the Advisory Board of the Dutch journal \"Methodology and Science\", 1976–95, Member of the Global Advisory Board of Human Dignity and Humiliation Studies, 2005- ; and has received honorary faculty appointments at Willamette University, 1988- , and at Oregon State University, 1988- . Bartlett is Trustee and Director of Publications for the international non-profit organization, Literary Olympics, Inc., 1994- .\n\nHe is married to Karen Margo Bartlett (Germanist, cellist, and viola da gambist), daughter of Shirley Love and physicist Allan W. Love, designer of the antenna line feed for the Arecibo Observatory's radio telescope.\n\nBartlett has received recognition in both disciplines of philosophy and psychology. He is the author or editor of more than 20 books and research monographs, and many papers published in professional journals. His research has been funded under grants by the National Science Foundation, the Max-Planck-Gesellschaft, the Alliance Française, the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Lilly Endowment, and others. His work in both disciplines has been supported by well-known authors and researchers including Paul Ricoeur, Robert Hutchins, Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, Thomas Szasz, M. Scott Peck, Irving Greenberg, and others. Bartlett's work has been translated into German, Portuguese, French, and Polish.\n\nBartlett has received awards and honors for his work throughout his life, beginning at an early age: Award winner in local San Jose, California and regional San Francisco Bay Area Science Fairs for his research in microbiology, \"Search for New Antibiotics,\" 1961; selected only student to appear on television's \"Science in Action\" with Nobel Laureate Melvin Calvin, San Francisco, California, 1961; awarded best student in chemistry in the school, Saratoga High School (California), 1961; National Science Foundation summer institute fellowship award, Santa Clara University, 1961; Santa Clara University scholarship award to attend university concomitantly while still in high school, 1961–62; award winner in local San Jose and regional Bay Area Science Fairs for reflector telescope and clock drive original design and construction, 1962; awarded four-year Presidential scholarship by Santa Clara University (tenure 1962-64, honors student, physics major); awarded Boyce Scholarship at Raymond College, University of the Pacific, 1964–65; Alliance Française Grunsfeld Fellow, Université de Paris, 1966–67; California State graduate fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara, 1967–68; Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, Santa Barbara, California, fellowship in philosophy and mathematics, 1969–70; Raymond College, honored alumnus, High Table address, 1969; Université de Paris, Ph.D. with commendation from the jury, 1971; Max-Planck-Gesellschaft postdoctoral research fellowship, Max-Planck-Institut, Starnberg, Germany, 1974–75; Lilly Endowment and Saint Louis University Project C.O.V.E. (Career Oriented Values Education) research and development grant for university-level curriculum development in problem-solving, Saint Louis University, 1975–77; American Association for the Advancement of Science grant and National Science Foundation Chautauqua fellow, University of Missouri-Kansas City, Kansas City, Missouri, 1976–77; Saint Louis University, Beaumont Faculty Research Award, 1977; Outstanding Young Man of America Award, 1978; Saint Louis University citation for research, 1978; Willamette University, honorary research faculty appointment in psychology and philosophy, 1988- ; Oregon State University, honorary faculty appointment, professor of philosophy, 1988- .\n\nAs described in further detail in the sections that follow, Bartlett's research and publications can be divided into two main groups: studies in philosophy and studies in clinical psychology. In philosophy, his research has focused on the theory of reflexivity, self-referential argumentation, and the metatheory of reference and identification. In clinical psychology, his research has focused on human pathology as it is expressed in genocide, the Holocaust, war, terrorism, obedience, hatred, human ecological destruction, and human conceptual pathology. In addition, Bartlett's research in clinical psychology has sought to develop our understanding of what he calls human \"moral intelligence\", as well as of the psychology of peer review and editorial bias, the phenomenology of hatred, the psychology of mediocrity, and the psychology of stupidity. He has challenged the conventional understanding and treatment of mental disorders as promoted by the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\". Bartlett's publishing record and biographical information show that his work developed during the following approximate periods:\n\nBeginning with Bartlett's doctoral dissertation, whose doctoral jury members were French philosopher Paul Ricoeur (dissertation director), Belgian mathematical logician Jean Ladrière, and Belgian philosopher Alphonse de Waehlens, Bartlett developed an approach to the study of philosophical problems by means of a \"therapy for concepts\". The approach took the form of a self-validating phenomenological epistemology whose purpose is the identification and correction of many conceptually self-undermining errors that Bartlett classified as \"conceptual pathologies\". He applied the resulting methodology to a number of traditionally understood epistemological problems, as well as to portions of everyday, conventional conceptual vocabulary, to show that many of these must be recognized to be self-referentially inconsistent. He characterized the resulting methodology as \"self-validating\" in the sense that it cannot \"not\" be accepted without self-referential inconsistency.\n\nBartlett first formulated his revisionary methodology within a phenomenological framework in which the concept of reference plays a logically primitive role; he later separated his approach to \"conceptual therapy\" from phenomenology. This took the form of a theoretically neutral \"metalogic of reference\". Bartlett applied the resulting methodology to a group of conceptually basic concepts (for example, space, time, causality, consciousness, etc.) that both are relied upon in much ordinary thinking and are used in the formulation of scientific theories. Such applications, Bartlett sought to show, bring to light that many basic concepts, which tend to be routinely employed unquestioningly, are self-referentially inconsistent and stand in need of meaningful substitutes, for which he developed self-referentially consistent replacement concepts.\n\nBartlett has contributed to the field of study \"the general theory of reflexivity,\" which investigates the properties of systems capable of self-reference. As Bartlett has described, there are many such systems, ranging from reflexive formal systems in mathematics and in mathematical logic, to self-referential systems in artificial intelligence and the theory of computation, to self-referential systems that are physiologically based — an advanced example being that of human self-awareness and the capacity to reflect on that awareness. Secondary applications arise in connection with breakdowns in reflexive functioning found in certain psychopathologies.\n\nBartlett's studies relating to clinical psychology have focused on the following areas:\n\nIn 2005, Bartlett's book \"The Pathology of Man: A Study of Human Evil\" was published. The 200,000-word study applies the science of pathology to the human species in order to identify and describe many dispositionally-based pathologies that afflict our species, often without our awareness. A central purpose of the book is to bring together and discuss the work of twentieth century psychologists, psychiatrists, ethologists, psychologically-focused historians, and others who have studied the underlying psychology of human aggression and destructiveness. The conclusions of the study emphasize that human pathology has many originating factors, that people obtain varied cognitive and emotional gratifications from such pathology, and that human pathology is a normal human condition and is therefore generally intractable, at least at this stage of human development. Bartlett describes how deficits in what he defines as \"moral intelligence\" combine with the psychology of stupidity, which together form major contributors to the psychological shortcomings that result in human pathology. In critical responses to the book, the study was commended by \"The Journal of Analytical Psychology\": \"Bartlett is a lucid, painstaking and illuminating writer. This is certainly a classic work of reference in the field.\" \"The Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic\" appraised the book as \"a challenging and thought provoking approach that makes a significant contribution to an aspect of human psychopathology that is rarely or so comprehensively addressed.\" About the book, M. Scott Peck commented: \"[T]he study of evil is just beginning and you are a pioneer.\" Eric Zillmer, Carl R. Pacifico Professor of Neuropsychology at Drexel University, commended the book: \"Steven James Bartlett's \"The Pathology of Man\" marks the most comprehensive examination of evil to date. Drawing from different fields of study, including psychology and epistemology, Bartlett sets out on a \"Tour de Force\" of delineating the parameters on human evil... The resulting text is a most welcome addition to the field and provides for fascinating reading. \"The Pathology of Man\" is a timely, scholarly, and important piece of work that should appeal to anyone who is interested in understanding human evil.\" Author and President of the Jewish Life Network Irving Greenberg commented: \"This book is stunning, upsetting, gripping... [T]he book is a moral act of the highest order. These...comments would be incomplete without mentioning the erudition, the intellectual insight and playfulness, the gallows humor and the self-restraint which deepen and lighten this book.\" Since the publication of \"The Pathology of Man,\" Bartlett has published a series of further books and papers related to the same and related subjects.\n\nIn 2011, Bartlett's book \"Normality Does Not Equal Mental Health: The Need to Look Elsewhere for Standards of Good Psychological Health\" was published. The book examines contemporary psychiatry's and clinical psychology's definition of mental health in terms of the baseline standard of psychological normality. Bartlett makes the case that this supposition has come to be accepted uncritically — even though that supposition is fundamental to current clinical theory and practice, and forms the core of the psychiatric classification system of the \"DSM\" (the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\"), which has become today’s diagnostic authority. \"Normality Does Not Equal Mental Health\" questions and rejects this central assumption. Among the author's objections to this assumption is the reification by the \"DSM\" of syndromes (i.e., equating mere syndromes with real disease entities) despite the absence of an organic basis for the majority of alleged medical disorders. Bartlett seeks to offer a constructive revision of what we should accept as a standard for good mental health. A critical assessment by \"PsychCRITIQUES\" combined a review of both \"The Pathology of Man\" and \"Normality Does Not Equal Mental Health\", evaluating the two books as follows: \"\"Pathology\" and \"Normality\" contain many altogether usefully reframed concepts. [T]he semiotic analysis of nosologies offered in Chapter 2 of \"Normality\" [is] a most promising organizing conceptual framework, helpful in understanding the problems with \"DSM\" classifications. It could not be more relevant in our times... I wish everyone would read Bartlett’s chapter in \"Normality\" on the abuses of peer review and editorial bias (Chapter 7) and adopt his proposed code of conduct for peer reviewers and editors (p. 172). And Bartlett’s treatment of relativism, the relativity of frameworks, and human evil in \"Pathology\" is absolutely limpid (Chapter 20). These and many other gems are scattered throughout the books. For this reason, and because the books present such an unusual stance that can provoke thoughtful consideration of the accepted truths in psychology, I highly recommend them... Both books are well written and clearly structured. Bartlett follows a regular expository pattern by explaining objectives, logically and systematically developing arguments and conclusions, and presenting frequent summaries. The premises and implications are intellectually easy to grasp, unforgettable, and alarming... Bartlett includes considerations and concepts that are seldom presented elsewhere.\"\n\nOver a period of decades, Bartlett has weighed the question whether psychotherapy is truly effective. In 1987, his book \"When You Don’t Know Where to Turn: A Self-Diagnosing Guide to Counseling and Therapy\" was published and subsequently adopted by the Psychology Today Book Club and the Psychotherapy Book Club. The book presents a self-diagnosing algorithm to help readers identify, based on effectiveness studies, potentially most promising forms of therapeutic care. The algorithm takes into account individual symptoms, circumstances, personality, and life goals. The book was followed by the publication of the author's summary appraisal of the effectiveness of psychotherapy, about which psychiatrist Thomas Szasz, a long-time critic of psychiatry, commented: \"It is one of the best, if not the best, that I have read on this subject.\" Similarly, psychologist Hans H. Strupp, who has extensively studied the effectiveness of psychotherapy, commented: \"I find myself in substantial agreement with [Bartlett's] major points which are well stated.\"\n\nBartlett studied these issues in a series of published papers that seek to explain faculty demoralization that can result from deteriorating conditions affecting the state of higher education in America.\n\nBartlett published a psychological and epistemological analysis of the blocks that prevent the majority of people from recognizing and respecting the sentience of members of other species. The study, \"Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks,\" was developed within a legal framework in order to make evident the ways in which human laws have reflected the underlying psychological and conceptual blocks to compassionate treatment of non-human animals. This work was subsequently translated into German and published online. Bartlett was later invited by Brazil's Ministry of Education to address the International Congress on Animal Rights, Salvador, Brazil, Oct. 8-11, 2008. For use at the Congress, \"Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights\" was translated into Portuguese and then published.\n\nBartlett's studies relating to the nosology of mental illness and his critique of the assumption that psychological normality should be equated with good mental health led him to examine the psychology of creative individuals. The psychology of artists and other highly creative people has been studied from the diagnostic perspective of \"DSM's\" psychiatric classification of mental disorders, with the result that some outstanding creative individuals may be considered to have various degrees of psychopathology. Bartlett has argued that this is not only short-sighted, but it questionably presumes that the psychology of normality should serve as arbiter for mentally healthy emotional, aesthetic, and cognitive characteristics and abilities. In a group of further publications, Bartlett has described in detail how it is possible to enrich and deepen our understanding of both the psychology of creativity and the psychology of normality.\n\nWith training and research in psychology and philosophy, Bartlett has undertaken a psychological examination both of philosophy as a discipline and of philosophers as a psychologically characterizable group. Related to this work, Bartlett has sought to identify and describe \"epistemological intelligence\" as a distinguishable variety of human intelligence, one which he explains is especially important to philosophers. In this context, he has sought to understand the challenges posed by the psychological profile of philosophers that can obstruct the development and implementation of the skills associated with epistemological intelligence.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51742987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51742987", "title": "Timeline of hospitals", "text": "Timeline of hospitals\n\nThis is a timeline of hospitals, attempting to describe major events in the evolution of the institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "22505590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22505590", "title": "Uncle Tom syndrome", "text": "Uncle Tom syndrome\n\nUncle Tom syndrome is a concept in psychology. It refers to a coping skill where individuals use passivity and submissiveness when confronted with a threat, leading to subservient behaviour and appeasement, while concealing their true thoughts and feelings. The term \"Uncle Tom\" comes from the title character of Harriet Beecher Stowe's novel \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", where the African American slave Tom is beaten to death by a cruel white master for refusing to betray the whereabouts of two other slaves.\n\nIn the American racial context, \"Uncle Tom\" is a pejorative term for blacks that give up or hide their ethnic or gender outlooks, traits, and practices, in order to be accepted into the mainstream. In African-American parlance this is also derogatorily known as an Oreo cookie: black on the outside, and white on the inside.\n\nIn race minority literature Uncle Tom syndrome refers to blacks that, as a necessary survival technique, opt to appear docile, non-assertive, and happy-go-lucky. Especially during slavery, blacks used passivity and servility for the avoidance of retaliation and for self-preservation. In contrast, the Aboriginal Australian Wurundjeri of Coranderrk are reported to have conformed to European ways while at the same time retaining group dignity and individual self-respect, avoiding the syndrome.\n\nIn a broader context, the term may refer to a minority's strategy of coping with oppression from socially, culturally or economically dominant groups involving suppression of aggressive feelings and even identification with the oppressor, leading to \"forced assimilation/acculturation\" of the cultural minority.\n\n"}
{"id": "2150796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2150796", "title": "Vulvitis", "text": "Vulvitis\n\nVulvitis is inflammation of the vulva, the external female mammalian genitalia that include the labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, and introitus (the entrance to the vagina). It may co-occur as vulvovaginitis with vaginitis, inflammation of the vagina, and may have infectious or non-infectious causes. The warm and moist conditions of the vulva make it easily affected. Vulvitis is prone to occur in any female especially those who have certain sensitivities, infections, allergies, or diseases that make them likely to have vulvitis. Postmenopausal women and prepubescent girls are more prone to be affected by it, as compared to women in their menstruation period. It is so because they have low estrogen levels which makes their vulvar tissue thin and dry. Women having diabetes are also prone to be affected by vulvitis due to the high sugar content in their cells, increasing their vulnerability. Vulvitis is not a disease , it is just an inflammation caused by an infection, allergy or injury. Vulvitis may also be symptom of any sexually transmitted disease or a fungal infection.\n\nVulvitis may be caused by the following reasons:\n\n\nThe symptoms of Vulvitis are:\n\n\nSymptoms of vulvitis may also be an indication of other diseases or disorders. A doctor should be consulted when one is having any of these symptoms. The symptoms may vary on depending on the cause and the time period it has been infected for.\n\nVulvitis can have many different causes which makes the diagnosis difficult. The diagnosis of vulvitis starts with examining the medical history and pelvic examination of the person affected by it. Other diagnostic tools like pap smears, urine tests, blood tests and tests for sexually transmitted diseases are also done. \n\nVulvitis, inflammation of the vulva, can have a variety of etiologies in children and adolescents, including allergic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, lichen sclerosus, and infections with bacteria, fungi, and parasites. Dermatitis in infants is commonly caused by a soiled diaper being left on for an extended period of time. Increasing the frequency of diaper changes and topical application of emollients are sufficient to resolve most cases. Dermatitis of the vulva in older children is usually caused by exposure to an irritant (e.g. scented products that come into contact with the vulva, laundry detergent, soaps, etc.) and is treated with preventing exposure and encouraging sitz baths with baking soda as the vulvar skin heals. Other treatment options for vulvar dermatitis include oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride or topical hydrocortisone.\n\nLichen sclerosus is another common cause of vulvitis in children, and it often affects an hourglass or figure eight-shaped area of skin around the anus and vulva. Symptoms of a mild case include skin fissures, loss of skin pigment (hypopigmentation), skin atrophy, a parchment-like texture to the skin, dysuria, itching, discomfort, and excoriation. In more severe cases, the vulva may become discolored, developing dark purple bruising (ecchymosis), bleeding, scarring, attenuation of the labia minora, and fissures and bleeding affecting the posterior fourchette. Its cause is unknown, but likely genetic or autoimmune, and it is unconnected to malignancy in children. If the skin changes are not obvious on visual inspection, a biopsy of the skin may be performed to acquire an exact diagnosis. Treatment for vulvar lichen sclerosus may consist of topical hydrocortisone in mild cases, or stronger topical steroids (e.g. clobetasol propionate). Preliminary studies show that 75% of cases do not resolve with puberty.\n\nOrganisms responsible for vulvitis in children include pinworms (\"Enterobius vermicularis\"), \"Candida\" yeast, and group A hemolytic \"Streptococcus\". Though pinworms mainly affect the perianal area, they can cause itching and irritation to the vulva as well. Pinworms are treated with albendazole. Vulvar \"Candida\" infections are uncommon in children, and generally occur in infants after antibiotic therapy, and in children with diabetes or immunodeficiency. \"Candida\" infections cause a red raised vulvar rash with satellite lesions and clear borders, and are diagnosed by microscopically examining a sample treated with potassium hydroxide for hyphae. They are treated with topical butoconazole, clotrimazole, or miconazole. \"Streptococcus\" infections are characterized by a dark red discoloration of the vulva and introitus, and cause pain, itching, bleeding, and dysuria. They are treated with antibiotics.\n"}
{"id": "37420579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37420579", "title": "Wagner-Murray-Dingell Bill", "text": "Wagner-Murray-Dingell Bill\n\nThe Wagner-Murray-Dingell Bill was a 1945 proposal to institute a national medical and hospitalization program. Senator Robert F. Wagner (D-New York), Senator James E. Murray (D-Montana), and Representative John D. Dingell, Sr. (D-Michigan) introduced it to the 79th United States Congress on May 24, 1945. The bill was not passed. It is notable as an effort for health care reform in the United States.\n\nA similar bill of the same name was introduced in 1943 but not enacted. The 1945 attempt was distinct.\n\nHenry Kraus' book, \"In the City was a Garden\", is about experiences of the resident's council of a World War II Garden Apartment (FHA) housing project for the war effort in San Pedro Ca. Chapter VI - Kaleidoscope of Change, gives an extended account of attempts to provide medical clinics in the projects and the California Medical Association response against what it called \"government medicine.\" From a historical perspective, it is an interesting read on that subject and others of the time period.\n\n"}
{"id": "42557742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42557742", "title": "Water supply in Cambodia", "text": "Water supply in Cambodia\n\nWater supply in Cambodia is characterized by a low level of access in rural areas compared to relatively high access to an improved water source in urban areas. In 2015, 76% of the population had access to \"improved\" water, 100% in urban areas and 76% in rural areas. Still, in 2015, around 9 million did not have access to \"improved\" water.\nWithin the government, urban water supply policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy. Service provision in urban areas is the responsibility of two water utilities in the largest cities, the Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA) and the Siem Reap Water Supply Authority (SRWSA), 11 Provincial Water Supply Authorities (known as PWWKs) as well as 147 smaller utilities. The Department of Rural Water Supply (DRWS) and Department of Rural Health Care (DRHC) of the Ministry of Rural Development are responsible for rural water supply for the smaller towns and villages with less than 1,000 households.\n\nThe performance of the Provincial Water Supply Authorities, measured in terms of access, cost recovery through tariff revenues and non-revenue water, lags behind the performance of PPWSA which has improved its performance significantly in the late 1990s and early 2000s. In 2012 the government of Cambodia launched a plan to bring the performance of the provincial utilities to levels comparable to those achieved by PPWSA by 2015, including their financial autonomy.\n\nIn 2012 the Asian Development Bank approved a grant to provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry, Mines and Energy to support this process. Many international NGOs provide support for drinking water supply in Cambodia through local NGOs, including Oxfam in Pursat Province or Water for Cambodia that installs biosand filters in rural areas, runs the only water-testing laboratory outside the capital and promotes water literacy.\n"}
{"id": "32557808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32557808", "title": "WeGrow Store", "text": "WeGrow Store\n\nweGrow, branded as the \"first honest hydro store\" and called the \"Wal-Mart of Weed\" by CNN, is a national hydroponics franchise that sells products and services to help patients cultivate medicinal marijuana. It is the first hydroponics store in the US that openly talks about cultivating cannabis for medical use.\n\nweGrow was founded in January 2010 by CEO Dhar Mann, a medical marijuana entrepreneur. He began franchising the brand in October of that year. weGrow currently has franchises in Sacramento, California and Phoenix, Arizona, with a non-retail distribution hub in Oakland, California.\n\nweGrow stores do not sell marijuana. They sell the supplies and services that cultivators need to grow marijuana. They also provide education and advice on all aspects of medical marijuana cultivation. Stores give indoor grow demonstrations using real (non-marijuana) plants and offer classes on how medical marijuana can be safely and responsibly cultivated. On-site medical doctors perform patient evaluations, and expert technicians advise customers on building professional grow rooms.\n\n\nLocations in Sacramento and Washington D.C. have since closed.\n\nAll locations are currently closed. The website now redirects to dispensarypermits.com.\n\nIn February 2011, Geraldo Rivera talked about the first marijuana superstore to hit California. The store was also featured in Time Magazine in February 2011. The grand opening of the Phoenix weGrow store was featured on numerous national media outlets: CNN aired a segment about the opening of the \"Walmart of Weed\" on May 31, 2011 and Reuters reporter David Schwartz wrote a story that was picked up by hundreds of online media outlets about the first medical marijuana superstore in Arizona on June 2, 2011. The Arizona grand opening event was also covered internationally by The Guardian on June 2, 2011).\n\nA fourth weGrow store opened in Washington D.C. on March 30, 2012, the same day that the six approved medical marijuana cultivators were announced in D.C. The weGrow D.C. store is owned and operated by Franchisee Alex Wong. The store is 2,500 square feet and is located at 1522 Rhode Island Avenue NE. The weGrow D.C. location grand opening was attended and covered by numerous media outlets, including Huffington Post, USA Today, the Washington Post and many others.\n\nweGrow has also been covered in multiple franchise publications including The Franchise Hound as well as The Franchise Times.\n\nIn 2011, \"National Geographic\" aired a documentary called \"Marijuana Gold Rush\" featuring the weGrow Store and owner Dhar Mann.\n"}
