{"id": "35801285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35801285", "title": "Arthur Carson", "text": "Arthur Carson\n\nArthur L. Carson (May 29, 1895 - April 11, 1985) was an American missionary and educator who served as president of Silliman University in Dumaguete City, Philippines from 1939 to 1953. Carson was born on May 29, 1895 in Tionesta, Pennsylvania. A graduate of Pennsylvania State College and Cornell University, Carson served as a missionary for the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. He was assigned in China from 1921 to 1939 where he was engaged in agricultural work from 1923 to 1926 in the locality of Weihsien, Shantung Province, and later on as director of the Rural Institute of Cheeloo University in Tsinan, Shantung Province from 1931 to 1939.\n\nAfter his tour in China, Carson was transferred by the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church to the Philippines, where he served as president of Silliman University from 1939 to 1953. When World War II broke out, he joined the Philippine resistance forces and continued his missionary work in the mountain \"barrio\" of Malabo, Municipality of Valencia, Province of Negros Oriental.\n\nAfter his stint in Silliman, he served as Director for the Church World Service in the Philippines from 1962-1963 and as President of Trinity College of Quezon City in the Philippines from 1963 to 1967. His published writings include \"Silliman University, 1901-1959\" and \"Higher Education in the Philippines\". Carson died on April 11, 1985 in the City of New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "47069434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47069434", "title": "Arun Kumar Basak", "text": "Arun Kumar Basak\n\nArun Kumar Basak (born October 17, 1941) is a Bangladeshi physicist. He is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Physics, University of Rajshahi.\n\nBasak was born in Radhanagor of Pabna town, Bengal Presidency, British India to parents Haripada Basak and Usha Rani Basak. Basak matriculated in 1957 securing First Division from R.M. Academy. He secured the second position in the merit list in the Intermediate Science Examination held under University of Rajshahi in 1959 from Edward College. He was placed in First Class with the first position in the B.Sc. (Hons) examination from Rajshahi College in 1961. In M.Sc. Examination (1963) from University of Rajshahi, he obtained the first position in first class and was awarded an RU Gold medal.\n\nIn December 1963, Basak joined the University of Rajshahi as a lecturer in the Department of Physics. In 1978, Basak was appointed as an Associate Professor by the University of Dhaka, but he preferred to stay in Rajshahi where he became Associate Professor in the later part of 1978.\nHe was awarded a merit scholarship for securing the highest marks in the Faculty of Science and got admission at Imperial College, London. Owing to the 1965 Indo-Pak war, he could not avail the opportunity. In 1972, he went to the University of Birmingham with a Commonwealth Scholarship. He worked with the tensor polarized deuteron and the polarized He beams, the latter being the only one of its kind in the world. He earned his Ph.D. degree in 1975.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3691832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691832", "title": "Bachelor of Business", "text": "Bachelor of Business\n\nA Bachelor of Business (BBus, BBus (Major)) is a three-year undergraduate business degree offered by traditional and newer universities from the post-Dawkins era in Australia, New Zealand and Ireland. It is similar in format and structure to a Bachelor of Commerce (BCom).\n\nIn Australia, it was traditionally awarded by former non-university tertiary institutions which include institutes of technologies, such as Queensland University of Technology, RMIT University and the University of Technology, Sydney. Some former Institute of Technologies and Colleges such as Ballarat College of Advanced Education (University of Ballarat), Swinburne Institute of Technology (Swinburne University) the South Australia Institute of Technology (University of South Australia) and the Western Australia Institute of Technology (Curtin University of Technology) have renamed their Bachelor of Business programs to Bachelor of Commerce after achieving university status.\n\nMany universities such as Monash University and the University of Queensland are offering Bachelor of Business degrees as a way to further specialise students study needs while other universities such as University of New England, University of Tasmania, James Cook University, Griffith University and La Trobe University have replaced many of their traditional general Commerce programs with Business programs. Within Australia, Bachelor of Business degrees are as common as Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Economics degrees.\n\nIn Ireland this award can also be offered as an honours degree B Business (Hons) with a further one year study than the ordinary level Bachelor degree.\n\nExamples of such include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42679021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42679021", "title": "Bimal N. Patel", "text": "Bimal N. Patel\n\nBimal N. Patel is a professor of public international law and the current director of the Gujarat National Law University, Gandhinagar. He was appointed by a high-level committee headed by the then Chief Justice of India, K G Balakrishnan, at the Supreme Court of India premises. The Government of India has also recently appointed him as a member of the 21st Law Commission of India along with Justice Balbir Singh Chauhan, retired judge of the Supreme Court of India as its chairperson. Patel is a former international civil servant, scholar and academician of international law and diplomacy. An international law jurist, he has extensively studied, researched, commented and published works on the administrative, procedural and substantive jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice (ICJ), International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), International Criminal Tribunal for former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and International Labour Organization Administrative Tribunal (Geneva). His publications on India and International Law and Responsibility of International Organisations are reviewed and referred by international law scholars and journals. He has published, edited several books, research papers/articles/surveys in leading academic and international law journals. He has been involved in drafting several national and state primary and secondary legislations, regulations, rules and holds the distinction as one of the first Indians to serve at the International Labour Organization Administrative Tribunal (Geneva). He has delivered numerous lectures, including one at Cambridge University, UK, and has received several honours. He has served at the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, Hague, Netherlands. However, at times his administration at GNLU has also been controversial and attracted adverse comments from the Gujarat High Court.\n\nPatel, was awarded the first Doctorate of Philosophy in International Law and Governance by the Jaipur National University, Jaipur India under the guidance of Professor V. S. Mani and the second PhD in International law from the prestigious Leiden University. He acquired LLM in International Law from Leiden University and Master of Arts in International Relations from the University of Amsterdam. \nHe also obtained Post master's degree Graduate Diploma in International Relations \nfrom the University of Amsterdam and Post Graduate Diploma in International Relations and Development from the Institute of Social Studies, the Hague, The Netherlands. He received Post Graduate Summer School Certificate in International Relations, Foreign Policy and Government from the University of Oslo, Norway. He completed his undergraduate studies in Agriculture Science from the Gujarat Agriculture University, Anand (Gujarat) India.\n\nPatel served the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), the Hague between 1995 and 2009. Patel has researched on the jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice, ITLOS, ICTY and ILOAT. He has published and edited several books, research papers/articles/surveys in leading academic and international law journals. He has experience in designing and implementing international and national development and research programmes and projects and networking and coordination with governmental agencies, UN bodies and academic/research institutions in various parts of the world. \nAt GNLU he teaches courses and supervises thesis and seminar papers in Public International Law, Peaceful Settlement of International Disputes and Law of the Sea and Maritime Law at undergraduate and post-graduate level. He has published, edited several books, research papers/articles/surveys in leading academic and international law journals. He possesses practical experience in dealing with international administrative law (international civil service laws) and organisational staff-management bodies. He has delivered lectures at Cambridge University, UK, Hague Academy of International Law, the Netherlands, Institute of Social Studies, The Hague, the Netherlands, Erasmus University of Rotterdam School of Law, the Netherlands, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway, University of Rome, La Sapienza, Rome, Italy, University of Auckland, New Zealand, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. He was also specially invited to address the World Ocean Science Congress.He was also appointed as a member of the search panel for the selection of Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and as a member of the six-member panel headed by cabinet secretary PK Sinha to recommend the Chairman of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Patel is also member of the high level National Security Advisory Board of India. \n\nPatel was appointed director of GNLU in 2008. Under the leadership of Patel, GNLU has had a steady growth. Since 2011, GNLU has started receiving USD 2 million grants from the UGC under its five-year plan for general and overall development. He is credited to have played a pioneering role and responsibility in creating world class campus of GNLU spread across 50 acres of land given by the State Government of Gujarat and further generous assistance of nearly 40 million USD by the Gujarat Government. He has been instrumental in starting many new courses and programmes and has transformed the academic system of GNLU by adopting the Research Based Teaching University curriculum. He also brought two prestigious global level conferences in India the Prestigious External Program of the Academy in collaboration with The Hague Academy of International Law, one of the most prestigious international law academies and the Global Maritime Conference where the Under Secretary-General of the United Nations delivered the keynote. Diplomats and administrators of more than 10 countries were present. Judges of the International Court of Justice and International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea were among the participants. Ambassadors and diplomats of different nations took part in this conference along with senior officers of the Indian Government. He was also designated as the Resource Person, UN Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), Geneva. He has successfully initiated and implemented LLM, PhD, diploma and certificate programmes, including on-line programmes in law and interdisciplinary fields. He has pioneered in initiating several executive training programmes for members of executive, judiciary, government departments, defence forces, NGOs, among others. He has been instrumental in the public-private partnership model through establishing various chairs and fellowships in the areas of Law of the Sea, Intellectual Property Rights, Mergers and Acquisitions, Labour Laws, Real Estate, Energy Law, Environment and Sustainable Development, International Contracts among others. He has contributed to the creation of a Research-based Teaching University and Research-based Administrative University model, respectively.\n\nIn 2016, Patel and other faculty members of Gujarat National Law University were criticised by the Gujarat High Court in its order of \"Jaymin Rajendra Brahmbhatt v. Gujarat National Law University and 5 Others\". The order had described GNLU as an epitome of injustice and set aside the order of a committee established by Patel to cancel a student's examination. GNLU filed a letters patent appeal (appeal to a bench of two judges of the same high court) along with an application for urgent hearing of the matter. The application for urgent hearing was dismissed by the Gujarat High Court. The Gujarat High Court finally disposed off the appeal by ordering in independent enquiry as agreed between the parties.\n\nIn September 2017, then Chief Justice of India, Justice T.S. Thakur, constituted a committee to look into allegations of opaque hiring practices by Patel. In early 2017, a financial officer filed a petition against GNLU alleging that his oral termination was illegal. In April 2017, Justice Sonia Gokani of the Gujarat High Court ordered that the employee be allowed to continue in service. GNLU appealed the High Court order but was asked by the court to ensure reinstatement of the employee. After taking the employee back into service, GNLU put him on leave. In February 2018, Gujarat High Court ordered Patel and the registrar of GNLU to comply with its earlier order in ‘true spirit’.\n\nThe United Nations, Government of India and Government of Gujarat have engaged Patel to act as Adviser to many Ministries and Departments and has been deputed to draft both international, national and state level legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5325356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325356", "title": "Bob McLeod (comics)", "text": "Bob McLeod (comics)\n\nBob McLeod (born August 9, 1951) is an American comics artist best known for co-creating the \"New Mutants\" with writer Chris Claremont.\n\nMcLeod was born in Tampa, Florida. He was educated at Auburn University and the Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale.\n\nBob McLeod began his career working in the production department of Marvel Comics in 1973 on a recommendation from Neal Adams. He began penciling and inking for Marvel's \"Crazy Magazine\", doing several movie satires and the \"Teen Hulk\" strip. He was a member of The Crusty Bunkers inkers while working at Adams' Continuity Studios, and became an inker at Marvel and DC Comics on many series, including \"The Incredible Hulk\", \"Conan the Barbarian\", \"Legion of Super Heroes\", \"Detective Comics\", \"Wonder Woman\", and \"The New Titans\", as well as penciling \"Star Wars\" and several \"Spider-Man\" fill-ins for Marvel.\nMcLeod drew the graphic novel and the first three issues of \"New Mutants\" and inked a number of subsequent issues. The graphic novel's production overlapped with his honeymoon, and ended up missing its shipping slot because editor Louise Simonson choose to keep her promise to McLeod that he could ink it himself. In a 2008 interview, McLeod looked back on \"The New Mutants\" as \"one of the most frustrating experiences of my career\", recounting having to ink the graphic novel while on his honeymoon and later give up doing pencils on the regular series because he could not keep up with the monthly pace at the time and felt he was producing substandard work. In 1987, he inked Mike Zeck's pencils on the \"Kraven's Last Hunt\" storyline in the \"Spider-Man\" titles. At DC Comics, he was the artist on Superman in \"Action Comics\" in the early 1990s including the \"Dark Knight Over Metropolis\" storyarc. McLeod helped writer Louise Simonson and artist Jon Bogdanove launch a new Superman title, \"\" in July 1991. With writer Roger Stern, McLeod contributed to such Superman tales as the 1991 story wherein Clark Kent finally revealed his identity as Superman to Lois Lane and the \"Panic in the Sky\" crossover in 1992.\n\nThere were several issues of \"The Phantom\" comic book drawn by McLeod for the Swedish publisher Egmont. He has written and illustrated a children's book, \"Superhero ABC\", which was published by HarperCollins in 2006 and received starred reviews from \"School Library Journal\" and \"ABA Booklist\". He also edited TwoMorrows Publishing's \"Rough Stuff\" magazine which featured interviews and art by top creators in the comics field. McLeod currently teaches part-time at the Pennsylvania College of Art and Design in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and works on various commercial projects.\n\nMcLeod was the keynote speaker for the 2012 Inkwell Awards Awards Ceremony at HeroesCon. In 2018, McLeod was award the Inkwell Awards Joe Sinnott Hall of Fame Award for his many years of inking.\n\n"}
{"id": "1504565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1504565", "title": "Budapest University of Technology and Economics", "text": "Budapest University of Technology and Economics\n\nThe Budapest University of Technology and Economics ( or in short ), official abbreviation BME, is the most significant University of Technology in Hungary and is considered the world's oldest Institute of Technology which has university rank and structure. It was the first institute in Europe to train engineers at university level. It was founded in 1782.\n\nMore than 110 departments and institutes operate within the structure of eight faculties. About 1100 lecturers, 400 researchers and other degree holders and numerous invited lecturers and practising expert specialists participate in education and research at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics. Approximately 1381 of the university's 21.171 students are from 50 countries abroad. The Budapest University of Technology and Economics issues about 70% of Hungary's engineering degrees. 34 professors/researchers of the university are members of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nTraining courses are provided in five languages: Hungarian, English, German, French and Russian.\n\nThe ECTS credit system was introduced in 1995. This helps students to enroll in the student exchange program of the European Union, the Socrates (also known as Erasmus), and earn a double degree through the Top Industrial Managers for Europe network.\n\n\nAt present the university has eight Faculties (founding date in parentheses):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Budapest University of Technology and Economics (BME) is a public higher education institute operating as a central budgetary institution. Its founding regulation has been issued by the Minister of Human Resources. Its Organizational and operational conditions are summarized in its own regulation in accordance with laws.\n\nThe steering body of the University is the Senate. BME is divided into faculties.\n\nThe faculties in the order of their founding:\n\n\nEducation, research, innovation and direct additional services are proceeded by the faculties. Work-sharing between the faculties are subject oriented both in the fields of education and that of technology. The organogram of BME is available here. The faculties consist of departments, institutes, research centres that are supported by deans offices and other units.\nGoverning is assisted by the Rectors Office and the Chancellors Office. There is a highly independent Group of integrated internal control.\n\nFaculties and Students organizations are supported by service units.\n\nThe core and ancillary activities are supported\n\n\nThere are other organizations like companies established or owned by the University, welfare institutions, student or teacher activity groups and other organizations associated to the University.\n\nThe Rector is the top manager and representative of the University. The Chancellor ensures the technical conditions, the administration, the financial management in order to complete the functions of the University. The Rector and the Chancellor regularly calls Executive Board meetings to prepare strategic decisions. Employment relations between are regulated in the Annex of the Human Resource Policy.\n\nAll Hungarians who pass the Hungarian secondary school matura with enough points are eligible for admission, as well as for anyone else in possession of an International Baccalaureate (again, with enough points).\n\nAs with all Hungarian universities, a tuition fee of around $1000 has to be paid each semester for the Hungarian program. No extra fee is required for Hungarians for whom it is their first university, unless they spend more than 13 semesters there.\n\nThe university offers extensive English language programs on all its faculties, at all levels of study (Preparatory Year, Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Arts, Master of Science, Doctor of Philosophy). The Tuition fees vary from €2000 - €4500 per semester.\n6% of all students come from different countries of the world representing over fifty different countries; the majority of the students in the English Program are from US, England and Germany.\n\nThe university is located on the right side of the Danube between Szabadság Bridge and Petőfi Bridge and towards Rákóczi Bridge. This makes the university campus especially long and narrow: walking from one side of the university to the other can take as much as 20 minutes.\n\nThe Inner City of Budapest (Pest) is just across the river, about 10 minutes' walk by either of the bridges.\n\n\n\nThe University has one sports club, the Műegyetemi AFC, which played in the first 1901 Hungarian League season. The University hosted the IFIUS 2008 World Interuniversity Games in October.\n\nThe National Technical Information Centre and Library at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics (BME OMIKK) is the successor of two major libraries in Hungary.\n\nThe library of the Budapest University of Technology and Economics (then Joseph Polytechnics) was formally founded in 1848 when Baron József Eötvös, Minister of Religion and Public Education donated a book in five volumes that become the first item in the inventory of the library.\n\nSince its foundation it moved with the University from Pest to the Buda Castle in 1854 and back to Pest in 1872. In 1882 it moved again, to the campus near the National Museum, now the campus of Faculty of Humanities of Eötvös Loránd University. In 1909 the Library was moved to a separated cathedral like building in the new Campus of BME. The building was designed by Samu Pécz, professor of architecture at the University. The central Aula connects the spacious, 16.5 meter wide reading room to the north, the multi floor storage facility to the west and the workrooms of library procedures to the south. The eastern facade is connected to the central building of the University with the 'Bridge of Sighs'. The architectural concept has been proven timeless.\n\nLater on the storage capacity was enlarged with the introduction of compact storage technology, and adding a large capacity underground storage facility under the garden of the Campus.\n\nToday a remote storage building near Budapest is also used.\n\nIn the beginning the library was directed by university professors. The first full-time director was appointed in 1936.\n\nIn the early years the library served only professors. It was opened for students in 1869, and for the general public in 1884.\n\nIn 1884 the first classification system of the library was elaborated and the first printed catalogue of the library was published by Vince Wartha, who was by the way professor of urban chemical technologies, dealing with construction materials, with gas production and water supply, and rector of university two times. In the following years extended editions of the printed catalogue were published and distributed to the departments and to other major libraries in the country. In 1936 the library introduced the index card system of catalogue.\nTransition to electronic cataloguing began in the 1980s, and the integrated library system was introduced in the 1990s. With the spreading of internet and widening the bandwidth the catalogue has become available from anywhere.\n\nThe library collection was extended by acquisitions, and with donations of professors. There were two major additions by receiving the heritage of baron József Eötvös in 1872, and of Károly Hieronymi engineer and politician in 1912.\n\nDuring the Second World War both the building and the collection were damaged. Nevertheless, it continued its work in 1945, and the main reading room was reopened during the academic year of 1949-1950.\n\nSince 1952, increasing amount of the collection has been placed on open shelves for direct access of the readers. In the beginning only fiction, later on handbooks, and nowadays textbooks and current literature can be found on the shelves in the reading rooms.\nIn 1953 the library started publishing serials (Methodical papers of the Central Library of Budapest Technical University, publications on history of science and engineering, Scientific Technical Bibliographies) and some other serials in the 1960s.\n\nSince the mid sixties the library takes part in the instruction of first year students with training on using the library and in teaching literature search skills.\n\nIn 1991 the library opened the Study of Natural Sciences with mostly chemistry-regarded literature open shelves.\n\nThe library is the centre of the library network of the University, and the thematic library in mathematics and physics.\n\nIn 1883 Ágoston Trefort, minister of education opened the Technological Museum including a library consisting the “basic Hungarian and international literature dealing with industry”.\nIn 1889 the library was moved and merged with the library of Public Polytechnics. In 1921 the Institute of Technological and Material Testing was established, merging two institutions. With the integration, the Library of Technological Institute was formed. From 1923 the library was intensively developed by the direction of Géza Káplány. In 1949 the Library of Technology was formally merged with the Technical Documentation Centre. Since then the library started establishing liaison libraries in the country. In 1952 the name changed to National Technical Library. In 1956 the Library was moved into a representative building near the National Museum.\nIn 1982 with the introduction of electronic technologies and with the development of information exchange of cooperating libraries on multinational level the library took the name of National Technical Information Centre and Library. After several changes in the organization and supervision, in 2001, with the decision of the minister of education, most of the tasks, the staff and the whole collection of the National Technical Information Centre and Library were integrated into the Library of Budapest University of Technology and Economics.\n\nAfter the integration of the two libraries the Main Reading Room were renovated and under it the Reading Room of Technical and Natural Sciences was created, three reading rooms in the central university building were formed, and a service tunnel connecting the library building with the underground storage facility and with the new reading rooms was constructed.\nIn 2011, following the erection of new university buildings in the new southern (Lágymányos) campus, a new service point of BME OMIKK was opened in building “I”.\n\nThe Budapest University of Technology and Economics ranked 250th in mechanical engineering by QS 2017 world ranking.\n\nIt takes the 322nd place among the world’s top 400 universities for engineering and technology, being the only university from Hungary that is listed in Quacquarelli Symonds ranking.\n\n"}
{"id": "7918493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7918493", "title": "Chicago Humanities Festival", "text": "Chicago Humanities Festival\n\nThe Chicago Humanities Festival is a foundation which organizes an annual series of lectures, concerts, and films in Chicago. The main festival takes place in the first and second weeks of November. The festival was started in 1990 by the Illinois Humanities Council and became an independent foundation in 1997. The annual Festival is generally built around a theme. For example, in 2012, the Festival theme was \"America\". Scheduled events included David Brooks, Russ Feingold, Adam Hochschild, Nathan Gunn, Grant Achatz, Philip Kotler, Tricia Rose, and Adam Gopnik. The Foundation also presents other shows and lectures during the remainder of the year. In 2012, past year-round events included Marina Abramović, Nancy Pelosi, and Etgar Keret. The theme for 2018 is Graphic.\n\nThe Chicago Humanities Festival is designed to create opportunities for people to explore the humanities. In addition to its annual Festival of the Humanities, it presents programs throughout the year on the study and enjoyment of the humanities.\n\nUnder the aegis of the Illinois Humanities Council and its then-chairman Richard J. Franke, the notion of a \"humanities day\" was proposed, and then expanded into a \"festival\". Eileen Mackevich created the first Chicago Humanities Festival, a one-day affair, held on November 11, 1990 at the Art Institute of Chicago and Orchestra Hall, before an audience of 3,500 people. Eight programs addressed the theme Expressions of Freedom, including a keynote address by playwright Arthur Miller. Founding co-sponsor institutions included the Art Institute of Chicago, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Lyric Opera of Chicago, and the University of Chicago.\n\nIn 1997, the Festival formally separated from the Illinois Humanities Council and established itself as an independent, nonprofit organization. Under Eileen Mackevich's leadership, by 2006, the independent Festival had expanded to nearly 150 programs over 16 days, in more than 30 venues, involving nearly 40 partner institutions and several hundred site volunteers, and attracting a combined audience of nearly 50,000.\n\nA Children's Humanities Festival was introduced in 2000. In addition, a year-round slate of education programs is devoted to supporting classroom teachers and students. The Festival also expanded its presence year-round, offering public lectures, readings, concerts, and special events that anticipate and build interest in the November Festival.\n\nIn 2006, Lawrence Weschler was appointed as the first artistic director of CHF, and in 2007 Stuart Flack joined as Executive Director.\n\nIn January 2010, Matti Bunzl was appointed as associate artistic director. In the fall, after four years with the festival, Lawrence Weschler became emeritus artistic director and Matti Bunzl assumed the role of artistic director. Bunzl left in 2014 for Vienna's Wien Museum.\n\nAlison Cuddy has been the artistic director since 2017.\n\nIn 2009, the Children's Humanities Festival was renamed to Stages, Sights & Sounds to better reflect the full breadth of the spring festival. Stages, Sights & Sounds is now in its third year. The spring festival's emphasis on performance provides contrast\nto the fall festival's adult-centered programming, which includes more lectures and\ndiscussions in exploration of a central theme that changes each year.\n\nCHF I: Expressions of Freedom (1990)\nNotable Presenters: Arthur Miller, Ed Paschke, Philip Gossett\n\nCHF II: Culture Contact (1991)\nNotable Presenters: Toni Morrison, John Edgar Wideman, Michael Ondaatje, Sandra Cisneros\n\nCHF III: From Freedom to Equality (1992)\nNotable Presenters: John Updike, Czesław Miłosz\n\nCHF IV: From Communication to Understanding (1993)\nNotable Presenters: William Safire, David McCullough, Marlo Thomas\n\nCHF V: Crime and Punishment (1994)\nNotable Presenters: Tom Wolfe, Scott Turow, Sherman Alexie\n\nCHF VI: Love and Marriage (1995)\nNotable Presenters: Stephen Sondheim, Stevie Wonder, Diane Ackerman, Betty Friedan\n\nCHF VII: Birth and Death (1996)\nNotable Presenters: Edward Albee, Jane Urquhart, Stephen Ambrose\n\nCHF VIII: Work & Play (1997)\nNotable Presenters: Peter O'Toole, Amartya Sen, Michael Moore\n\nCHF IX: He/She (1998)\nNotable Presenters: Wendy Wasserstein, Edward Hirsch, Galway Kinnell\n\nCHF X: New & Old (1999)\nNotable Presenters: Yusef Komunyakaa, Mordecai Richler\n\nCHF XI: NOW! (2000)\nNotable Presenters: Alan Lightman, Harold Ramis, Alison Lurie\n\nCHF XII: Words & Pictures (2001)\nNotable Presenters: Leonard Nimoy, Jonathan Franzen, Witold Rybczynski, Junot Diaz, Art Spiegelman\n\nCHF XIII: Brains & Beauty (2002)\nNotable Presenters: Francis Fukuyama, Joyce Carol Oates, Jeffrey Eugenides, Francine Prose, Mira Nair\n\nCHF XIV: Saving + Spending (2003)\nNotable Presenters: Roberto Benigni, Oscar Hijuelos, Tom Wolfe\n\nCHF XV: Time (2004)\nNotable Presenters: August Wilson, Maxine Hong Kingston, Clive Barker\n\nCHF XVI: Home and Away (2005)\nNotable Presenters: Margaret Atwood, Salman Rushdie, Annie Proulx, Susan Orlean\n\nCHF XVII: Peace and War (2006)\nNotable Presenters: Paul Krugman, Azar Nafisi, Joel Meyerowitz, Frank McCourt, Joan Baez, Errol Morris, Wesley Clark, Garry Trudeau\n\nCHF XVIII: The Climate of Concern (2007)\nNotable presenters: Wangari Maathai, E.L. Doctorow, Philip Pullman, Majora Carter, Peter Singer, Roger Payne, Terry Tempest Williams, W.S. Merwin, Edward Burtynsky, Maya Lin, Dave Eggers, Colin Quinn, Cat Chow, Greil Marcus, Amartya Sen, and the head writers of The Onion\n\nCHF XIX: Thinking Big! (2008)\nNotable presenters: David McCullough, Jeffrey Sachs, Robert Darnton, Wendy Kopp, Erika Doss, Robert Irwin, Naomi Klein, Lawrence Lessig, Amitav Ghosh, Colonel Eileen Collins, Jonathan Alter, Ronald Mallett, and Laurence Tribe\n\nCHF XX: Laughter (2009)\nNotable presenters: Matt Groening, John Hodgman, Bob Sabiston, Lynda Barry, Jules Feiffer, Robert Mankoff, Barbara Ehrenreich, Paul Farmer, Claire McCaskill, Robert Reich, Billy Collins, Ronald K.L. Collins, Kay Ryan, Tim Reid, Tom Dreesen, Ian Frazier, John Adams (composer)\n\nCHFXXI: The Body (2010) \nNotable presenters: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Sam Shepard, Dan Savage, Sarah Jones (stage actress), Sherwin B. Nuland, Laura Kipnis, Frank Shorter, Alpana Singh\n\nCHF XXII: tech•knowledgē (2011) \nNotable presenters: Stephen Sondheim, Jonathan Franzen, Jeanne Gang, William Gibson, Michael Taussig, Cathy Davidson, Yuri Lane, Claudia Rankine, Jared Diamond\n\nCHF XXIII: America (2012)\nNotable presenters: Camille Paglia, Mark Helprin, Charles C. Mann, John Lewis Gaddis, Yves Béhar, Austan Goolsbee, Neil MacGregor, Nate Silver, Ian Frazier, Russ Feingold, David Brooks, Elie Wiesel, Richard Ford\n\nCHF: Animal - What Makes Us Human (2013)\nNotable presenters: David Axelrod, Rick Bayless, Jonathan Safran Foer, Kimberly Peirce, Martina Navratilova, Sherman Alexie\n\nCHF: Journeys (2014)\nNotable presenters: Anne Rice, Andrew Ross Sorkin, Cheryl Strayed, eighth blackbird\n\nCHF: Citizens (2015)\nNotable presenters: Ta-Nehisi Coates, Elvis Costello, Lawrence Lessig, Bob Mankoff\n\nCHF: Speed (2016)\nNotable presenters: Gloria Steinem, Trevor Noah, Thomas Friedman\n\nCHF: Belief (2017)\nNotable presenters: Al Gore, Reza Aslan, Samantha Power\n\nCHF: Graphic (2018)\n\n"}
{"id": "16945076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16945076", "title": "Directed individual study", "text": "Directed individual study\n\nDirected Individual Study or DIS is a college, university or college preparatory school level class providing a more in-depth and comprehensive study of a specific topic than is available in the classroom. \n\nCourses may be taken as electives. In some cases, a Directed Individual Study may be: \n\nIn general, a student should have or may have to acquire: \n\nA student identifies an area in which he or she wishes to undertake research and approaches a faculty member with expertise in that field to request a Directed Individual Study.\n\nThe student and instructor complete DIS Form and submit it to the Academic Coordinator who establishes the course in the registration system. The student often titles his/her own subject area.\n\nThe content and requirements of the course are worked out between each instructor and student. Generally, students should not expect a faculty member to agree to a Directed Individual Study unless they have had the student in a regular class and are familiar with that student. The faculty member develops a related syllabus, for review and approval by the department chair and in some cases the Dean (education) of the college.\n\n"}
{"id": "11985291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11985291", "title": "E-Pro (certification)", "text": "E-Pro (certification)\n\ne-Pro (styled e-PRO) is an Internet professional certification program approved by the National Association of Realtors (NAR) for its members. Members of the Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) may also pursue the e-Pro certification and use the logo by completing the online learning program.\n\nThe four core areas of study (arranged in modules) are:\n\nThe course material prior to 2010 was based on the \"Real Estate Technology Guide\".\n\nIn 2010 the entire e-Pro course was re-written by Bill Lublin and his team at the Social Media Marketing Institute. The new course was the winner of the 2011 Award for best educational offering from the Real Estate Educators Association (REEA).\n\n"}
{"id": "4410484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4410484", "title": "Education Act 1918", "text": "Education Act 1918\n\nEducation Act 1918 (8 & 9 Geo. V c. 39), often known as the Fisher Act, is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was drawn up by H. A. L. Fisher. Note that the \"Education Act 1918\" applied to England and Wales, whereas a separate \"Education (Scotland) Act 1918\" applied for Scotland.\n\nThis raised the school leaving age to fourteen and planned to expand tertiary education. Other features of the 1918 Education Act included the provision of ancillary services (medical inspection, nursery schools, centres for pupils with special needs, etc.).\n\nBy the 1920s, the education of young children was of growing interest and concern to politicians, as well as to educationalists. As a result of this rising level of public debate, the Government of the day referred a number of topics for enquiry to the Consultative Committee of the Board of Education, then chaired by Sir William Henry Hadow. Altogether the Hadow Committee published three very important reports – 1926, 1931 and 1933.\n\nThese reports led to major changes in the structure of primary education. In particular, they resulted in separate and distinctive educational practice for children aged 5–7 (infants) and those aged 7–11 (juniors).\n\nThe Reports recommended child centred approaches and class sizes of no more than thirty. These recommendations marked a triumph of 'progressive' educational thought and practice over the more 'traditional' ideas and proved to be popular with many policy makers and teachers alike.\n"}
{"id": "22120631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22120631", "title": "Education controversies in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Education controversies in the Republic of Ireland\n\nThere have been several educational controversies in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nIn 1982 Eileen Flynn, a teacher, was sacked from her teaching post for being pregnant while unmarried.\n\nIn 2002, Tomás Ó Dulaing, the headmaster of Gaelscoil Thúlach na nÓg in Dunboyne, County Meath was dismissed after a controversy over religious education in the school. The school is interdenominational, with education in both Catholic and Church of Ireland faiths. Tomás Ó Dulaing arranged for religious education classes to take place outside regular school hours after consulting with parents and management, but the schools patron body objected and the board of management sacked him. He was sacked for mis-conduct following his un authorised letter sent to parents of the children, this dismissal was upheld by the labour court after he withdrew his appeal.\n\nIn 2007, controversy broke when a school in Balbriggan was reported to have only black pupils, all Irish-born, leading to accusations of de facto segregation in the school system. Some claimed it was an unintended consequence of the school enrolment policies, others blamed the state failing to plan for growth in the area. Because of the shortage of school places, an Educate Together school that was scheduled to open in 2008 was opened a year ahead of schedule.\n\nDuring the 2009 Leaving Certificate examination, a school in Drogheda Co. Louth handed out English Paper Two instead of English Paper One. As a result, the original date for English Paper Two was reset to the following Saturday with a different, contingency paper.\n\nSee Protestant Schools grant controversy.\n\nIn June 2010 a student alleged on boards.ie that cheating in the Leaving Certificate exams was happening in her school. The State Examinations Commission confirmed that it was investigating the allegations.\n\nOn the 13th June 2017 it was confirmed that someone somehow took a picture of Irish Paper 2 and was sent to a Facebook group of about 3000 teachers. The State Examinations Commission is now ongoing the investigation.\n\nAt the start of the 2010–2011 term there was controversy over an announcement that a number of Catholic run second level schools in Ireland have imposed a ban on Muslim girls covering their faces with a full veil, although head scarfs are allowed. Sikhs who attend Catholic run boys schools are allowed wear a Turban.\nThe opposition Labour party education spokesperson (later minister of education Ruairi Quinn) had earlier called for a head scarf ban.\n"}
{"id": "6742599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6742599", "title": "Edward C. Hayes", "text": "Edward C. Hayes\n\nEdward Cary Hayes (1868–1928) was a pioneer in American sociology and was a founder and president of the American Sociological Association.\n\nEdward Cary Hayes was born on February 10, 1868 in Lewiston, Maine to Professor Benjamin Francis Hayes. He received a bachelor's degree from Bates College and then studied at the Cobb Divinity School. He then became a pastor in Augusta, Maine until 1896 (his views clashed with the congregation) when he became a Dean at Keuka College. In 1899 he enrolled at the University of Chicago to study philosophy but soon began to study sociology. He studied under Albion Small and alongside George Herbert Mead, John Dewey and James Tufts. Hayes then spent a year in Germany at the University of Berlin, where he studied with Georg Schmoller, Adolph Wagner, Friedrich Paulsen, Alfred Vierkandt and Georg Simmel. Hayes was one of the pioneers promoting in bringing sociology into the American educational system. He received his doctorate in 1902. Colby-Bates-Bowdoin Chase Regatta \n\nHayes went on to teach at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio and the University of Illinois. He wrote many books and articles including, \"Introduction to the Study of Sociology\" (1915) and \"Sociology and Ethics\" (1921). Hayes attended the first meeting of the American Sociological Association in 1905 and became one of its most influential founding members. He served on the Society’s Committee of Ten, selected to create a universal model for schools’ undergraduate introductory sociology courses. Hayes was elected Second Vice President of the American Sociological Association in 1919, First Vice President in 1920, and became its eleventh President in 1921. He died in Urbana, Illinois in 1928.\n\n"}
{"id": "2427237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2427237", "title": "Els Goulmy", "text": "Els Goulmy\n\nEls Goulmy (born 27 November 1946, The Hague) is an eminent professor of transplantation biology, especially regarding minor histocompatibility antigen, at Leiden University. Goulmy is an expert in the area of tissue typing and belongs internationally to the absolute top of her discipline. She was awarded the Spinozaprice in 2002.\n\nGoulmy did groundbreaking research on the role of antigens in organ and stem cell transplantation. She is the pioneer of the so-called Minor Transplantation Antigens in men. Minor antigens can induce strong immune reactions. She discovered the H-Y minor antigen encoded by the Y-chromosome (1976) and the autosomally encoded HA-1 antigen (1983). She then described the polymorphism and the population frequencies of several autosomal minor antigens. Crucial was her work on the differential expression of minor antigens showing either overall expression on all body cells, such as the male specific H-Y antigens, or restricted expression on solely blood and blood cancer cells, such as HA-1. Goulmy was the first to describe the chemical structure of the human minor antigens (1995). In 1996 she demonstrated the crucial role of minor antigens in the outcome of organ and stem cell transplantation. In 1997 she launched new concepts for immunotherapy of blood cancer applying the blood and cancer cell specific minor antigens, such as HA-1, for tumor specific treatment. The basis for the translation ‘from the lab to the clinic’ of these cancer and patient specific treatment was laid in her laboratory. Hereby minor antigens, such as HA-1, are used as ‘vaccin’ to boost the anti-blood cancer reaction in the patients' body.\n\nEls Goulmy has a remarkable career. After secondary school and an education for laboratory technician, she worked as a clinical-chemical technician in Nijmegen, Switzerland and Norway. In 1972 she started as research technician at the University Hospital in Leiden in the department of Jon van Rood. Goulmy has a \"Master en Immunology\" (cum laude 1984) and a \"Doctorat d’Etat es Sciences Naturelles\" (summa cum laude 1985) of the Paris University ‘Paris VI Pierre et Marie Curie'. In 1990 she worked as visiting scientist in the Department of Cell Biology of the Stanford University School of Medicine (USA). Goulmy wrote over 250 scientific articles among which several in Nature and Science. For her scientific pioneering work, she received nationally and internationally more than a dozen prices and awards among which the Spinoza Prize of the Netherlands Organization of Scientific Research. \nGoulmy was active in many national and international scientific advisory committees, among which the KNAW, the European Research Council and Institut Pasteur. Goulmy was one of the founders of the Dutch Network of Women Professors (2001) and their president from 2001-2012. (Landelijk Netwerk Vrouwelijke Hoogleraren). She is a member of the Royal Holland Society of Sciences and Humanities (KHMW)\n\nSince November 11, 2011 Goulmy is an emeritus professor. Following her farewell speech, she was honoured with the distinction 'Knight in the order of the Netherlands Lion'.\n\n"}
{"id": "52991568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52991568", "title": "Ewart Farvis", "text": "Ewart Farvis\n\nWilliam Ewart John Farvis (12 December 1911 – 12 October 2005) was a pioneering electronics engineer and educator. His war-time service was in electronic countermeasures. In his subsequent career at the University of Edinburgh he initiated the Department of Electrical Engineering, establishing its capabilities in silicon device processing and enhancing industrial interactions through Wolfson Microelectronics.\n\nEwart Farvis was born in Bristol and schooled there. He then studied at the University of Bristol, graduating BSc (Eng) in 1936 with First Class Honours in Electrical Engineering.\n\nIn 1937, he was appointed Lecturer in Electrical Engineering at University College, Swansea until called away to war service in the scientific civil service. Here he first extended the chain-home radars to detect low flying targets. He subsequently met with Churchill's scientific adviser, R V Jones, and assisted in detecting the signals from the enemy navigator aids used to direct bombers on to target. Farvis led the interception group, with Martin Ryle in charge of the associated radio jamming group, all coordinated by Robert Cockburn.\n\nOne of Farvis’ major wartime achievements was to counteract a sophisticated new German navigation aid, \"Benito\", with Alex Harley Reeves, the later inventor of pulse code modulation telephony. Farvis went to London with the new radio jammer and, on listening to the German bombers’ radio telephone traffic, he noted that they suspected equipment malfunction, rather than intentional jamming. After the war, Farvis debriefed these German equipment designers.\n\nAcademic appointments at The University of Edinburgh followed in 1948 as a lecturer in Applied Electricity. Here his research focussed on the then fashionable topic of gaseous electronics. He was closely associated in ionospheric research with Edward Appleton when he was University Principal. In 1961, Farvis became the first Professor and Head of the new Department of Electrical Engineering. Following this, his interests moved into the rapidly expanding field of solid-state electronics. In 1964 he took the bold move to construct a centre for solid-state devices and materials science research at Edinburgh and constructed the first university cleanrooms for silicon semiconductor device fabrication. he was an early pioneer in identifying the significance of semiconductor transistors for application in future electronic systems.\n\nIn 1969 Farvis set up of the Wolfson Microelectronics Liaison Unit (WMLU), coinciding with the first appointment of part-time paid visiting Professors in a UK university. WMLU later expanded into an independent company, Wolfson Microelectronics, under Professor David Milne before being acquired by Cirrus Logic.\n\nMany of his post-war innovations in the undergraduate curriculum were tried out at Edinburgh before catching on elsewhere, including: open book examinations; individual experimental project work and in-depth dissertation writing. He was innovative in moving the final honours’ examinations from June to January, to improve the student focus on project work.\n\nEwart Farvis had a record of service in national policy-forming via: the Electrical Industries' Training Board, the Science Research Council and the Institution of Electrical Engineers. Farvis served on numerous committees: the Council of Engineering Institutions Board of Moderators; UNESCO International Working Group on Continuing Education; and as President of the Education & Training Committee of the Fédération Européenne d‘Associations Nationales d’Ingénieurs FEANI from 1974- 1977.\n\nHe retired in 1977 after 29 years of University service. He was elected to Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1958 and RefReded a CBE in 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "7535552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7535552", "title": "Foster Business Library", "text": "Foster Business Library\n\nThe Foster Business Library is the business library at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington. As part of the university system of libraries, it serves the 3,500 students, faculty, and staff of the Foster School of Business. The 21,500 square-foot facility, which opened in 1997, is located under a garden, beneath an skylight, on two floors, connected with PACCAR Hall and adjacent to Dempsey Hall and the Bank of America Executive Education Center.\n\nThe library is located below-ground among the complex of buildings that comprise the Foster School of Business. The main entrance is located on the first floor of PACCAR Hall with an accessible entrance on the lower (basement) level. Previous to a 2009 renovation, the library's main entrance had been through the Bank of America Executive Education Center.\n\nThe library is named in honor of Albert O. and Evelyn W. Foster. A 1928 graduate of the University of Washington Business School, Albert Foster founded Seattle-based investment banking firm Foster & Marshall in 1938. Evelyn Foster was a 1932 graduate of the University of Washington. Albert and Evelyn were the parents of Michael G. Foster, for whom the Foster School of Business is named. Together, the Fosters established the Foster Foundation in 1984\n\nMade possible by a $3 million gift from the Foster Foundation in 1990, construction began in March 1995 with the library opening on June 23, 1997. A major renovation from 2009 to 2012 reoriented the library entrance through PACCAR Hall and increased seating and group study space.\n\nDuring the fall, winter, and spring quarters, the library is open Mondays through Thursdays from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m., on Fridays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., 12 noon to 5 p.m. on Saturdays, and 1 to 5 p.m. on Sundays. Hours are extended during exam weeks and shortened during the summer quarter, university holidays, and between quarters.\n\nFoster Library provides computers, printers, scanners, study tables, and reservable group study rooms equipped with flat-panel displays.\n\nThe Foster Library collection supports the study and practice of business management with books, periodicals, and research databases. The collection primarily includes material that supports professional practice and research in accounting, finance, management, marketing, information systems management, international business, operations management, and entrepreneurship. Complementary and similar materials are housed in other UW libraries, including Suzzallo-Allen Libraries, Odegaard Undergraduate Library, and the libraries at University of Washington Bothell and University of Washington Tacoma.\n\n"}
{"id": "41941544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41941544", "title": "Framhaldsskólinn í Austur-Skaftafellssýslu", "text": "Framhaldsskólinn í Austur-Skaftafellssýslu\n\nFramhaldsskólinn í Austur-Skaftafellssýslu (often abbreviated FAS) is a secondary school located in Höfn, southeast Iceland. It was founded in 1987 by the Icelandic government and municipalities in Austur-Skaftafellssýsla. The first 15 years, it was located in Nesjaskóli, in Nes, a nearby rural area, but was moved to a new building, Nýheimar, in 2002. The school has about 200 students, mostly locals, but distance education is also quite common. Current principal is Eyjólfur Guðmundsson.\n\n"}
{"id": "52849403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52849403", "title": "Frances M. Hill", "text": "Frances M. Hill\n\nFrances M. Hill (July 10, 1799—August 5, 1884) was an American missionary and educator who moved to Greece during the Greek War of Independence and established the first educational facilities for girls in Greece. She and her husband were the first foreign missionaries sent by the Episcopal Church in the United States to serve abroad. While her husband worked to establish their mission, Hill supervised the girls' educational facilities and ran the mission during his absences. After her retirement from the mission, she founded a teacher training academy and continued to administer the school until her death.\n\nFrancis Maria Mulligan was born on July 10, 1799 in New York City, New York to Elizabeth (née Winter) and John W. Mulligan. She was the eldest of nine children, three boys and six girls, in the family. Her father was a prominent attorney in New York City and her grandfather Hercules Mulligan was an Irish immigrant who had served in the Revolutionary War. He was a familiar of both George Washington and Alexander Hamilton. Educated at home with her siblings in the family mansion on Cedar Street across the street from the Old Dutch Church, Mulligan was trained as was typical for cultured and refined young women in the period. On April 26, 1821, she married John Henry Hill, a local banker. Hill was a Sunday school teacher at St. George's Episcopal Church (Manhattan) and her husband was the superintendent of the Sunday school. In 1829, John retired from banking to enter the Virginia Theological Seminary. When he was ordained in 1830, the couple were posted to Greece, the first foreign mission undertaken by the Episcopal Church.\n\nOn October 1, 1830, the couple set sail along with Mr. Bingham, a printer and the Rev. John Jacob Robertson and his wife Julia. They arrived in Malta on November 16. Robertson had been the minister who had originally proposed a foreign mission to the church. From Malta, they proceeded that same day to Smyrna making their way to Tenos, where they would remain until spring due to the ongoing conflict in Athens during the Greek struggle against the Ottoman Empire. On May 26, 1831 the group left the island and made their way to Athens, their original destination. By July 18, they had found suitable accommodations for Hill to establish a school for girls, as Athens was in ruins due to the war. She began with twenty pupils, who studied in the basement of the house she and her husband occupied in Plaka, near the Ancient Agora of Athens. Within two months enrollment at the school had increased to 167 pupils, ranging in age from three to eighteen years old. It was the only school in Greece offering education to women at that time and from the beginning, the girls' schools were under the direction of Hill, while her husband supervised the boys' education.\n\nWhile the two husbands returned to Smyrna on missionary business, in September, Hill and Mrs. Robertson remained in Athens and taught at the school. Robertson was in charge of teaching needle skills to the girls, while Hill attended to their recitation and reading skills, using the Bible as their main text book. The girls also studied geography, spelling, writing and mathematics. The girls were divided into three groups, the elementary school, a trade school to teach those students who would need to earn a living industrial skills and a teacher training school. Within eighteen months, Mrs. Robertson withdrew from active participation because of her growing family, leaving Hill, as the only teacher for girls at the facility. Hill's goal was to use local girls to serve as under-teachers to assist with instruction; however, as there were only two schools teaching girls in Greece, the other being on the island of Syros, she found she had to train the teachers before she could employ them. By 1834, Hill had received the approval of the Greek government for the normal school, the only such facility in operation. Three assistant teachers, Elizabeth and Frederica Mulligan and Mary B. Baldwin had been sent by the Missionary Board and were assisting with teaching the school in 1836.\n\nIn 1837, Hill founded a boarding school for paying students of wealthy Greek families. The students were housed in a wing of the mission house and had 70 enrollees. Continuing her supervision of all the female students, Hill also oversaw the boys' education during 1841, when her husband took an extended trip to the United States. During that time, she also maintained all the mission duties. In 1842, an attack against the mission and Rev. Hill was launched by an editor of \"The Age\", a newspaper in Athens. Investigation by an ecclesiastical commission appointed by the Synod of the Kingdom, cleared the Hills of any anti-Greek actions, as were alleged by the paper. The editor then attacked the Synod, as well as the Archbishop of Argos, for support of the missionaries and its editor was prosecuted by the government. The strain of managing the mission and the subsequent allegations of wrongdoing caused Hill to suspend the school for girls for the remainder of the year, retiring to the countryside to regain her health. She was sent an official communique from the Secretary of State, of the government's satisfaction with her efforts to educate Greek girls and returned to the school in November with a class of 500 students. These students were the pupils of the kindergarten, elementary school for girls and the industrial training classes for girls. The boarding school, normal school, and boys' schools were not reopened.\n\nIn late 1843, the Mission Board determined that they would suspend the mission in Athens, but an onslaught of support from organizations and individuals reversed their decision, allowing the girls' school to continue. Hill continued to manage the school until her husband retired from mission work in 1869. Rather than stop teaching, she then organized the Hill Institute, a private normal school. She continued to assist Marian Muir, who had taken over operation of the mission schools.\n\nHill died on August 5, 1884 in Athens, two years after her husband's death. They were both buried in the Protestant Cemetery of Athens and marble monument to them was erected at the grave site by the City of Athens. Her niece, Bessie Masson, took over the administration of the Hill Memorial School which was still in operation in 2015 as the oldest continuously-operating school founded by missionaries in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "17889329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17889329", "title": "Gireogi appa", "text": "Gireogi appa\n\nA gireogi appa (Korean: 기러기 아빠, literally \"goose dad\") is a South Korean man who works in Korea while his wife and children stay in an English-speaking country for the sake of the children's education. The term is inspired by the fact that geese are a species that migrate, just as the \"gireogi appa\" father must travel a great distance to see his family. Estimates of the number of \"gireogi appa\" in South Korea range as high as 200,000 men.\n\nIf the \"gireogi appa\" has the finances to pay for frequent visits to see his family, he is called an \"eagle dad\" (독수리 아빠) but if finances constrict his ability to travel abroad, he is known as a \"penguin dad\" (펭귄 아빠) because he cannot fly and may go without seeing his family for years at a time.\nIf the man cannot afford to send his children abroad, he rents a small studio for his wife and children in Gangnam, an area dense with hagwon. That father is called a \"sparrow dad\"(참새 아빠). And if the man sends his children to elementary school in Daechi, he hires lodgings and is called a \"Daejeondong dad\"(대전동아빠).\n\nMore than 40,000 South Korean schoolchildren are believed to be living in United States, England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Malaysia expressly to increase English-speaking ability. As of 2009, over 100,000 Korean students were studying abroad. In at least some of the cases, a South Korean mother will choose to live abroad with her children with the additional reason of avoiding her mother-in-law, with whom a historically stressful relationship may exist due to Korean Confucianism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53503471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53503471", "title": "Glasgow Industrial School for Girls", "text": "Glasgow Industrial School for Girls\n\nGlasgow Industrial School for Girls was formed in 1881 when the mixed industrial school was split into a new location in Maryhill, Glasgow.\n\nIt was a residential workhouse that provided education for girls from families that could not support them. It reached notoriety in 1882 when the assistant superintendent resigned following public outcry over a flogging she administered.\n\nThe girls were taught sewing, knitting, house work, helping in the kitchen and laundry, and machine work. They made uniforms for the boys in the associated industrial school. On moving to Maryhill there were two hundred girls.\n"}
{"id": "2684956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684956", "title": "Goal theory", "text": "Goal theory\n\nGoal theory is the label used in educational psychology to discuss research into motivation to learn. Goals of learning are thought to be a key factor influencing the level of a student's intrinsic motivation.\n\nResearch in goal theory has identified the following dichotomies:\n\nA student is described as task-involved when he is interested in the task for its own qualities. This is associated with higher intrinsic motivation. Task-involved students are less threatened by failure because their own ego is not tied up in the success of the task.\n\nA student who is ego-involved will be seeking to perform the task to boost their own ego, for the praise that completing the task might attract, or because completing the task confirms their own self-concept (e.g. clever, strong, funny etc...). Ego-involved students can become very anxious or discouraged in the face of failure, because such failure challenges their self-concept.\n\nNot all goals are directed towards \"approaching\" a desirable outcome (e.g., demonstrating competence). Goals can also be directed towards \"avoiding\" an undesirable outcome (e.g., avoiding the demonstration of incompetence to others).\n\nIt is thought that approach goals contribute positively to intrinsic motivation whereas avoidance goals do not.\n\nA performance goal is a goal focused on gaining favorable judgement or avoiding unfavorable judgements by others. Performance goals focuses on ensuring that one's performance is noticeably superior to others. This motivation to outperform others is what enables the person to strive for more achievement in and outside of school and work as well.\n\nPerformance goals can heavily impact adolescents in the classroom. This deep desire to out-do those around oneself can alter classroom ideologies in each student; some for the better and sometimes for the worse. For the betterment of performance in class, performance goals lead students to place a greater importance on GPA and class rankings. This in turn, leads to better academic performance. Along with a focus on grades, students see exams as a competitive competition that also allows them to enhance their performance.\n\nThere is a significant advantage in academic performance in students who possess performance goals in the classroom. It also generates a healthy form of competition between peers enhancing peer relationships and grades among all of those particular students.\n\nPerformance goals lead to a strong sense of commitment that can appear in the classroom and also outside of the classroom as well. The student exemplifies a strong relationship with the goal of doing better than others, and this leads to a longterm commitment to achieving that goal. On the other hand, there can be extensive downsides that can come along with focusing entirely on out-performing others. Students can feel accomplished when they receive a better grade on the test than everyone else, but that can simply be linked to memorization and not full comprehension. There comes a conflict when the student attempts to fully comprehend new information on top of trying to focus on doing better than those around them. The student may not be able to handle the combined pressure of learning and constant competition; one of those two variables must alter. Other concerns involve stress on the student to try to keep up with those around them, tension in the classroom as a student struggles with asking questions for fear of seeming incapable to others, and anxiety and frustration with all of those variables on top of each other.\n\nOther researchers have adopted a more complex perspective on goals, arguing that there are many different kinds of goals individuals can have in achievement settings. For instance, Ford and Nichols (1987) extended this point of view into within-person goals and person-environment goals, which lays equal significance on learners per se and learning environment.\n\nNevertheless, all the theories are devoted to studying the types of goals as well as their impact on multiple facets of learning. In other words, research that takes goals as a dependent variable remains scarce. Such a strategy to take goals for granted could be defended on the grounds that one cannot deal with all aspects of so complex an issue and that the theorists possibly feel the question of how goals originate was not relevant to the models they developed.\n\nOn the other hand, young children are frequently ignored within this area, based on the assumption that they might not have a clear pattern of setting a goal or they even do not own a goal when starting a task. Klahr argued that although there are large adult-child differences in overall problem-solving performance, even preschoolers have rudimentary forms of strategies such as means-ends analysis that rely on the use of goals. Thus, expanding the subject selection range and focusing on the process of goal-setting are expected to be the two main tasks in future research direction.\n"}
{"id": "54939102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54939102", "title": "Grace Gemberling", "text": "Grace Gemberling\n\nGrace Thorp Gemberling (July 31, 1903 – December 26, 1997) was an American artist known for the broad range of her subjects in paintings having a pronounced psychological as well as aesthetic impact. One critic said they conveyed a mood that was \"ethereal, bold and engaged.\" Another said her work showed \"a disciplined hand and a romantic eye\" together with \"a magical color sense.\" Known for her control of detail and successful handling of line and blocks of color, she was said to paint in a modernist style that stayed clear of abstraction and was remembered by a teacher and fellow artist as \"the finest woman painter in Philadelphia during the 20s and 30s.\"\nBorn in Philadelphia, Gemberling grew up in that city and at a farm her family owned in Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania. She developed an interest in art while a student at Friends' Central School. With the encouragement of her parents, she enrolled in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 1920 and for the next three years she studied under Daniel Garber, Hugh Breckenridge, and Arthur Carles. Showing great promise as a student, she received the valuable Cresson Traveling Scholarship in both 1923 and 1924.\n\nGemberling's career as a professional artist began after she returned from European travel in 1924 and decided not to continue attending classes at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. When in 1926 she exhibited with the Philadelphia Water Color Club, a reviewer said her painting, \"Marine\" was \"gorgeous,\" and later that year when she exhibited at the Plastic Club, the same reviewer praised a portrait of hers, \"Anna Ruth,\" as \"nicely spontaneous.\" Thereafter, her paintings appeared frequently in Philadelphia exhibitions and quite often received favorable notice. From 1930 onwards, she showed in other East Coast locations including the Corcoran Biennials of 1930 and 1935 in Washington, D.C.; the Salons of America and National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors exhibitions of 1932 in New York; and exhibitions held by the North Shore Art Association of Gloucester, Massachusetts, in 1932 and 1933.\n\nDuring the course of her career critics frequently noticed Gemberling's competent handling of color and her skill in design and execution.\nCritics singled out specific paintings for discussion. Regarding \"Otakar Sevcik\" C. H. Bonte of the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" wrote: \"Her so called 'sketch' of Professor Otakar Sevcik (1852-1936) is a creation of so much life, charm and dignity of coloring as to constitute a finished portrait.\" Of her \"Amusement Park\" Edward Alden Jewell of the \"New York Times\" wrote: \"Grace Thorp Gemberling's \"Amusement Park\" young ladies look quite as indisposed as ever. Those who pin their admiration exclusively to subject will doubtless turn away from protagonists so depressing, but the judicious can hardly fail to admire this painter's astuteness in constructing a picture.\"\n\nIn reviewing an untitled landscape Scott Chalfont wrote in an exhibition catalog: \"So characteristic of Gemberling's finest talent, in this landscape she takes a scene and makes it her own. From the wispy trees, to the dark skies and vibrant houses, the contrasts create a compelling painting.\" In 1938 a critic wrote:\n\nAs personal as are the creations of Grace Gemberling, there is extraordinary variety in her canvasses. The artist's delineation of well-worn houses is unique as her interpretation of them in color, and there is nothing we like more than the simple but fruitful wedding of line and color mass. Control of detail is, in this case, an additional gift. Canvases may be flooded with subsidiary graphic or pigmental themes, but there is never confusion. Grace Gemberling is one of Philadelphia's most promising painters.\n\nConcerning the painting \"Colonial Stairway\" Chalfont wrote: \"One of the more realistically interpreted compositions by Gemberling, this is clearly the \"Montmorenci\" Stair Hall at Winterthur Museum. Wonder- fully rendered, this painting invites the viewer into the opulence of the interior and demonstrates her deep ap- preciation for the Winterthur Museum and the impressive collection within.\"\n\nThe exhibitions in which Gemberling participated were mostly non-commercial. The two organizations that showed her work more than any others were both ones where she had been a student: She contributed paintings, watercolors, and drawings to nearly all the annual exhibitions held by the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts between 1927 and 1943 and to many of the annual exhibitions held at Friends' Central School between 1934 and 1955. Other non-commercial organizations that showed her work on multiple occasions included the Plastic Club of Philadelphia, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the North Shore Art Association, and the National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors. Non-commercial organizations that showed her a single time included the City Art Museum of St. Louis (1930), Salons of America (New York, 1932), Philadelphia Water Color Club (1926), National Academy of Design (New York, 1932), Whitney Museum of American Art (New York, 1934), Society of Independent Artists (New York, 1934), Studio House (Washington, D.C., 1936), Women's University Club (Philadelphia, 1938), Federal Art Project show at the Philadelphia Museum of Art (1938), and Everyman's Gallery (Art Alliance, Philadelphia, 1953).\n\nHer relatively few exhibitions in private galleries included a solo exhibition at the Mellon Galleries in Philadelphia (1933), Gimbel Galleries in Philadelphia (1935) and group shows at the Boyer Gallery's two locations, Philadelphia, and New York (both in 1936). \n\nGemberling was known for the number of important awards she had won. Most came from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, which honored her twice with its highly valued student award, the Cresson Traveling Scholarship, in 1923 and 1924, and twice with its Fellowship Prize, given by members of the Academy to one of its own (1931, 1940). It also awarded her the Lambert Purchase Prize and the Mary Smith Prize for best painting by a Philadelphia woman artist, both in 1930, and a Gold Medal for her painting \"Landscape.\" She also won the Oliver Beck Figure Composition Prize from the National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors in 1933.\n\nDuring the 1930s Gemberling gave art instruction in her studio in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania. One of her students, Jane Piper, later became a well-known artist.\n\nGemberling was born on July 31, 1903. Her parents were Joseph Burton Gemberling and Lulu Sarah Thorp Gemberling who married December 28, 1898, and whose home was in \"Ivy Cottage,\" Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania. Her father was born in Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania in 1867 and died in 1943. He was a successful construction manager for a company that built bridges. Her mother was born in 1880.\nGemberling had an older sister named Josephine who performed in concert on the violin in the years prior to her marriage in 1927 to Donald Robb Cochran. The family spent summer vacations on the Gemberling farm in Selinsgrove. Gemberling was educated at Friends Central School in Philadelphia before enrolling in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts.\n\nIn the late 1930s Gemberling married a well known Philadelphia architect, W. R. Morton Keast, and remained married to him until his death. Keast had two daughters by a prior marriage. He and Gemberling had no children. Keast was the chief designer for the architectural firm run by John T. Windrim. In the 1920s and 1930s he designed a number of major buildings in Philadelphia including the Franklin Institute, the Municipal Court Building, the Wannamaker's Men's Store (now known as One South Broad, and the Fidelity Bank Building. He was born in Germantown in 1888 and died Bala Cynwyd in 1873.\n\nFrom the late 1940s through the 1960s Gemberling was active in Philadelphia society. The great-granddaughter of a Revolutionary War veteran (Johann Jacob Gemberling), she joined and became leader (Regent) of the Thomas Leiper chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. She was also an active member of the Pennsylvania Chapter of the National Society of Daughters of Founders and Patriots of America, the National Society of the Colonial Dames of America, and the Pennsylvania Society of New England Women. Gemberling was an avid gardener and member of the Philadelphia Society of Little Gardens. She died on December 26, 1997, and was buried in the West Laurel Hill Cemetery, Bala Cynwyd.\n\nOther names used\n\nGemberling's full name was Grace Thorp Gemberling. Thorp was her mother's maiden name; it is sometimes given as Thorpe. She commonly used Grace Gemberling prior to her marriage although sometimes she would use Grace T. Gemberling. The \"New York Times\" usually referred to her as Grace Thorp Gemberling. In addition to these name usages, following her marriage she was also called Grace Gemberling Keast, Grace Keast, Grace G. Keast, or Mrs. W. R. Morton Keast.\n\n\"Grace Thorpe Gemberling Keast; Sanely Modern; a Special Exhibition of One of Philadelphia's First and Finest Women Modernist Painters\" [exhibition catalog] by Scott Chalfant (2011, H. L. Chalfont)\n"}
{"id": "50394725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50394725", "title": "Grae Fernandez", "text": "Grae Fernandez\n\nGrae Cameron García Fernández (born November 7, 2001) is a Filipino film and television teen actor, host and recording artist, known as one the vocalists of Star Magic's teen boy-group Gimme 5.\n\nFernandez was born on November 7, 2001 in Manila, Philippines. He is the elder of two sons to actor Mark Anthony Fernandez and wife Melissa Garcia Fernandez. His younger brother is Rudolf Venedictos Garcia Fernandez.\n\nHe belongs to one of the most prominent clans in showbiz. He is the grandson of action icon, the late Rudy Fernandez and actress-politician, Alma Moreno. He is also the half-nephew of Vandolph Quizon, Renz Fernandez and Winwyn Marquez.\n\nGrae is the nephew of Rommel Padilla's sons (Daniel and RJ Padilla), Robin Padilla's daughters (his 3 daughters and 1 son to former wife Liezl Sicangco) which are Kylie, Queenie, Zhen-Zhen, and Ali Padilla, and to actress-reporter Erika Padilla.\n\nFernandez first appeared on TV in a 2013 Jollibee Summer Bucket Treats commercial. He made his television debut on the ABS-CBN game show \"Minute To Win It - Junior Edition\" which was then hosted by Luis Manzano.\n\nIn December 2013, Fernandez joined the boy-group Gimme 5 - a band formed by ABS-CBN's Star Magic along with teenstar Nash Aguas as leader, Joaquin Lucas Reyes, Brace Henry Arquiza and John Emmanuel Bermundo. They were introduced on \"ASAP\" wherein the band performed The Wanted's, Glad You Came.\n\nGimme 5 released their self-titled debut album in November 2014 under Star Music. The track list of the all-original, pop-rock album includes \"Pagkasama Ka\", \"Aking Prinsesa\" , \"Hey Girl\", \"Growing Up\", \"Ikaw Na Na\" and its carrier single \"Hatid Sundo\". The following year, the group held a series of TV guestings and mall shows to promote their album. The group kicked off their \"Gimme5 Best Summer Ever\" album tour a few weeks ago.\n\nIn August 2014, Fernandez started his acting career as a cast member of \"Perfecto\" an episode in fantasy-drama, comedy anthology \"Wansapanataym\" which is produced and aired by ABS-CBN every Saturdays and Sundays. He was later on cast as supporting character in the teen drama TV series, \"Bagito\".\n\nFernandez was then cast in a special participation as one of the young characters in the 2015 Primetime TV series \"Bridges of Love\". He played Manuel \"JR\" Nakpil JR/Carlos Antonio (later portrayed by Paulo Avelino) a hopeful high school student who sells cigarettes at night. Fernandez stirred everyone's curiosity about the boy who rose from the slums when Baron Geisler's character adopted him. He was subsequently cast as a supporting character in the remake version of Primetime TV series \"Pangako Sa 'Yo\" as Jonathan \"Egoy\" Mobido originally by Patrick Garcia. He appeared in Book 1 as the love interest of Lia Buenavista played by Andrea Brillantes.\n\nIn August 2015, Fernandez made his film debut as one of the supporting cast in a certified box-office hit movie \"The Love Affair\" top-billed by Richard Gomez, Dawn Zulueta and Bea Alonzo. In the film, he played the role of Timmy the youngest child of Vince and Trisha.\n"}
{"id": "53187725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53187725", "title": "Helen Elise Smith Dett", "text": "Helen Elise Smith Dett\n\nHelen Elise Smith Dett (born about 1892 – died after 1948) was an American pianist and music educator, the wife of composer Robert Nathaniel Dett. She was the first black graduate of the Damrosch Institute of Musical Art, a precursor of the Juilliard School.\n\nHelen Elise Smith was born in New York City. She graduated from the Damrosch Institute of Musical Art in 1907, the school's first black graduate.\n\nBeginning in 1912, Smith was co-founder and co-director of the Martin-Smith Music School in New York City., with violinist David I. Martin. After marrying in 1916, she moved to Hampton Institute in Virginia, where she taught piano and was frequently featured as an accompanist at concerts and recitals. Later she taught piano at Bennett College.\n\nHelen Elise Smith married composer and educator R. Nathaniel Dett in 1916. They had two daughters, Helen Dett Noyes and Josephine Dett Gregory. She was widowed when Dett died in 1943.\n"}
{"id": "10937123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10937123", "title": "Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education", "text": "Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education\n\nThe Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education (IMPACT-SE), formerly known as the Center for Monitoring the Impact of Peace (CMIP), is a non-profit organization that monitors the content of school textbooks. It examines school curricula worldwide, especially throughout the Middle East, to determine whether the material conforms to international standards and is teaching recognition and acceptance of the 'Other'. The organization believes that education should be utilized to encourage tolerance, pluralism and democracy, and promote peaceful means of solving conflicts.\n\nIn October 2011, IMPACT-SE opposed the recognition of Palestine at UNESCO, arguing that the Palestinian Authority does not meet the organization's recommendations for becoming a full member.\n\nThe organization analyzes Israeli, Palestinian, Saudi Arabian, Syrian, Egyptian, Tunisian, and Iranian textbooks. The organization has published reports relating to the understanding of terror, the role of religion in schools, as well as on the \"indoctrination\" of children in Iran.\n\nThe organization analyzes textbooks according to the following criteria:\n\nAccording to the organization's website, criteria one through eight were recommended by UNESCO experts.\n\nPublications by the Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2534275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2534275", "title": "International School of Tanganyika", "text": "International School of Tanganyika\n\nThe International School of Tanganyika (IST), founded in 1963, is an international school in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The school is an IB World School that hosts the Primary Years, Middle Years, and Diploma programmes. IST operates on two campuses in desirable suburbs of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. IST Elementary serves children from age 3 to Grade 5 while IST Secondary, 5 kilometers away, serves Grades 6 – 12. IST is fully accredited by the Council of International Schools (CIS) and the Middle States Association (MSA).\n\nIST is a diverse international school currently serving about 1000 students from across the globe - 22% of the students are Tanzanians, 15% American, 10% British, 8% Indian, and the remainder from approximately 60 other nationalities. The Elementary Campus offers programmes for students from age 3 to Grade 5 and the Secondary Campus offers programmes from Grade 6 to 12. IST families are a mix of long-term residents, Tanzanian citizens, expatriates in a growing private sector, and NGO and diplomatic workers from numerous donor countries. To be admitted to the pre-Kindergarten a child must be 3 years of age before September 1.\n\nScholars from IST have gone to universities such as Georgia Institute of Technology, Berkeley, McGill, MIT, Harvard, Oxford, Cambridge, Yale, Brown, LSE, UCL, Princeton, Columbia, Cornell and Stanford.\n\nIST is open to anyone and everyone from all over the world. The school offers preschool for children aged 3–6, Primary school for children aged 6–11 and Secondary school for children aged 11–18. In addition to their academic studies, all students from Grade 6 and up engage in the community service-learning aspect of the IB CAS programme.\n\nIn the 2017-18 school year, IST has about 120 teachers, including from the US, the UK, Tanzania, Canada and about 14 other countries. IST commits considerable resources to staff development and has a strong, collaborative professional culture.\n\nThe average points score for IST students in the Class of 2017 was 34 (out of the maximum possible 45), compared with the worldwide average of 29.95 points. Students in the Class of 2017 earned 7 points (the maximum score possible) in the following higher level subjects: physics, biology, economics, geography, psychology and theatre. Two students earned bilingual (Swahili-English) diplomas.\n\nStudents and teachers take part in a range of adventure activities including annual treks up Mt. Kilimanjaro and Mt. Meru, trips to outstanding wildlife areas, camping, snorkeling, and sailing activities and beach peer-bonding days. Elementary students partake in overnight trips beginning in Grade 4. All Secondary students in Grades 6-11 annually participate in Extended Study Program week that includes trips around Dar, to Zanzibar and throughout Tanzania. They also have an opportunity to travel outside the country with the Model United Nations program, taking part in The Hague International Model United Nations as well as other MUN trips.\n\nIST performs in regional ISSEA (International Schools of Southern and Eastern Africa) tournaments in which International Schools from Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, Zambia, Zimbabwe and South Africa compete in basketball, volleyball, cricket, and football.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20789644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20789644", "title": "John Renton", "text": "John Renton\n\nJohn J. \"Jack\" Renton (born 1933) is a professor of geology at West Virginia University, known for the quality of the teaching in his introductory geology courses and in the video version of the course, Nature of Earth. In 2001 he received the WVU Eberly College of Arts & Sciences Outstanding Teacher Award, the WVU Foundation Outstanding Teaching Award, and was named “West Virginia Professor of the Year” by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education. In 2002, he was named an Eberly Family Professor for Distinguished Teaching, one of only four at the University.\n\nRenton earned a B.S. in Chemistry from Waynesburg College in 1956, and his M.S. in Geology from West Virginia University in 1959. From 1960 to 1963 he served as an R&D Officer in the U.S. Air Force Solid State Physics Group at Wright Patterson AFB, before returning to WVU to complete his Ph.D. in 1965.\n\nHe taught at WVU from 1965 until his retirement in May 2015, reaching approximately 35,000 students during 100 semesters prior. His research specializations are coal geology and geochemistry. His scholarly contributions have been in geochemistry, coal geology, X-Ray diffractometry, and clay mineralogy. Throughout his career he published ~70 papers and managed almost $5 million in research funding. Many of his scientific contributions came while he headed the West Virginia Geological & Economic Survey Analytical Section concurrent with his WVU appointment from 1965 to 1992.\n\nRenton has created a 36 part lecture series on DVD called Nature of Earth. Bill Gates has this program as example of the sorts of educational innovation that the Gates Foundation intends to support, calling the course \"phenomenal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "628054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628054", "title": "Katimavik", "text": "Katimavik\n\nKatimavik (Inuktitut: \"meeting place\") is a registered charity which educates Canadian youth through volunteer work. Katimavik provides opportunities for young Canadians to participate in intensive six-month periods of volunteer service through the following themed programs: \"Cultural Discovery and Civic Engagement\", \"Eco-citizenship and Active Living\", \"Second Language and Cultural Identity\", \"Eco-internship\" (Éco-stage), and \"Katimavik Horizon\". In each program, volunteers live in groups of 11 young people in one or two different regions of the country, work full-time for not-for-profit organizations, and engage in an educational curriculum in which volunteers improve their second official language, learn about environmental stewardship and Canadian cultures, and develop a healthy lifestyle and leadership skills. During the 2011-12 program year, approximately 1,150 young Canadians volunteered in a Katimavik program and lived at one of 53 Katimavik houses located across the country while contributing to the work of one of 545 partner organizations. The organization is currently headed by Daniel Lapointe.\n\nSince 1977, more than 30,000 Canadians have participated in the program, staged in more than 2000 communities.\n\nEach Katimavik program consists of groups of 11 youth aged 17 to 21 who are drawn from across Canada. They travel together to one or two different places in Canada for a period of six months. During the 2007-2008 program year there were 99 such groups spread across Canada. Each participant volunteers for about 40 hours per week and completes a learning program that focuses on Canada's official languages, protecting the environment, leadership, cultural diversity, and leading a healthy lifestyle. Each year, more than 500 community non-profit organizations are assisted by Katimavik volunteers doing full-time work for them. Katimavik has volunteer projects in all 10 Canadian provinces and three territories. Katimavik has signed partnerships with a number of post-secondary institutions in Canada, including Vancouver Island University, Capilano University, Quebec's public community colleges (CEGEP), and George Brown College in order for Katimavik participants to receive post-secondary credit for their experiences.\n\nKatimavik has its national headquarters in Montréal, Quebec, which also serves as regional office for the Atlantic and Quebec region. For the Central region, the regional office is located in Ottawa, Ontario. For the North, Pacific and Prairies regions, the organization's regional office is located in Calgary, Alberta.\n\nKatimavik was started by Pierre Trudeau's government and then Senator Jacques Hébert as well as then Minister of National Defence Barney Danson. Legally, it was incorporated as OPCAN, a non-profit corporation created by letters patent dated January 26, 1977 pursuant to Part II of the Canada Corporations Act. Much of Katimavik's structure was taken from Canadian Cadet Organizations and the defunct Company of Young Canadians.\n\nIn the 1980s Katimavik offered a military option, an opportunity to spend three months on an Army or Navy base learning fundamental skills such as first aid and map reading, as well as basic military skills, such as drills and rifle handling.\n\nThe overall program grew quickly in its initial years to its peak in 1985-86, when there were more than 5,000 participants. The program was cancelled that year by Brian Mulroney's new government.\n\nThe cancellation prompted founder Jacques Hébert to undertake on a 21-day hunger strike in protest, to no avail. He subsequently worked with Quebec region director Claude Raiche to continue Katimavik as an outdoor recreation training centre at Notre-Dame-de-l'Île-Perrot.\n\nIt continued in this form until 1994 when Youth Service Canada helped Katimavik to form a pilot program involving six projects and 66 participants. The next year, the Government of Canada's Department of Heritage provided the program with ongoing funding and the number of projects and participants tripled. The size of the program then continued to increase; during the 2005-2006 program year there were 1,155 participants in 105 communities across Canada. In 2008 Katimavik was granted consultative status at the United Nations Economic and Social Council which has allowed Katimavik to liaise with similar organizations in other countries and represent Canada internationally.\n\nIn 2006, Katimavik was told by the government that its funding was under review and that it was to cease recruitment activities. A letter-writing campaign was organized by Katimavik and funding levels were maintained until October 2010 when the government announced three-year funding in the sum of $15 million per year, a reduction from its previous funding levels ($19.7 million).\n\nIn recent years, Katimavik diversified its program offerings. Katimavik launched a program called Katimavik North which focused upon pairing groups of youth between the ages of 18 and 25 that were half-composed of young Canadians from the territories and half-composed of young Canadians from the southern provinces; the groups then lived in both Canada's north and south in order to learn from each culture.\n\nKatimavik expanded beyond youth service when it launched an Eco-stage program in conjunction with the Government of Quebec; the program allowed Quebecers between the ages of 18 and 35 to gain experience in an environmentally-related career while drawing upon the educational expertise that Katimavik has built.\n\nKatimavik's current program offerings relate to the themes of \"Cultural Discovery and Civic Engagement\", \"Eco-citizenship and Active Living\", \"Second Language and Cultural Identity\", and the program \"Katimavik Horizon\" which combines all of the program elements into a less focused but more diverse experience. About these programs:\n\nThis six-month program provides an opportunity to live and volunteer in two different Canadian communities. The volunteers can shape the program based on the particular aptitudes and interests of the\ngroup.\n\nFor six months youth volunteer in two distinct Canadian communities, one of which has a significant aboriginal population. This program is designed for youth who are interested in discovering the diversity of\nCanada while engaging in meaningful volunteer service activities. Volunteers will explore the geography, history, economy and socio-cultural makeup of their host communities.\n\nThis program gives youth the opportunity to develop a healthy lifestyle and to thoroughly acquire an understanding of the important ecological challenges in a Canadian community where they will be located\nwhile participating in volunteer initiatives that promote environmental stewardship. Over the course of six months, volunteers obtain an in-depth knowledge and fully integrate in one Canadian community outside\nthe volunteer’s home province where they apply the principles of eco-citizenship.\n\nFor six months youth volunteer in two Canadian communities: one Anglophone community in Western Canada and one Francophone community in Québec. It gives participants intense immersion in an linguistic and cultural experience while engaging in meaningful volunteer service.\n\nÉco-stage is a three-month program for young Québécois between the ages of 18 and 35 who want to engage in periods of work experience related to getting professional experience in the environmental sector. Interns in this program receive a $3000 allowance to cover travel and accommodation expenses.\n\nIn conjunction with the British Columbia Ministry of Children and Family Development and the Francophone Secretariat of British Columbia, Katimavik has a program in which British Columbia youth are paired with youth from Quebec in non-profit programs, including World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms, with the aim of developing knowledge of sustainable agriculture and increasing employability.\n\nKatimavik had a funding agreement with the Department of Canadian Heritage that ran until March 31, 2013. $15 million per year was contributed to the program under this agreement. Katimavik also has the organization the Katimavik Fund which receives donations on behalf of Katimavik, including those donations made via the Katimavik website. The Eco-Internship program is currently supported by a funding agreement with the government of Quebec.\n\nYouth who apply to the program are randomly selected though groups are based on demographic factors such as mother tongue, sex and province of origin. Selected applicants must submit a completed doctor's examination and criminal record check. The programs run for six-month periods from January to June and from July to December.\n\nA selected group of eleven participants might include, for example, one from British Columbia/Yukon, two from the Prairie provinces, Nunavut and the Northwest Territories, four from Ontario, three from Quebec and one from the Atlantic provinces. These eleven youth will be between the ages of 17 and 21 (inclusive).\n\nThe Katimavik program receives financial support from the Citizen Participation Branch of the Department of Canadian Heritage. Because of this there is no cost for travel, food, or accommodation. Additionally, participants are paid an allowance of $3 a day to cover incidental living expenses. All activities planned by the group are arranged under various learning budgets. Since there is rarely time for any extracurricular activities outside of the program, any sort of group activity expenses are paid for out of the group budget and have to be agreed upon by the group and the Project Leader, i.e. hiking, visiting cultural centers, theater and media presentations, etc. There is a $300 non-refundable participation fee, payable once volunteers are officially accepted to Katimavik. This fee covers accident insurance and other administrative costs. There is also a $350 transportation deposit that is paid by volunteers upon departure and refunded upon completion of the program; if a volunteer leaves the program early this deposit is sacrificed in order to cover the increased costs associated with unplanned transportation home.\n\nParticipants volunteer 35–40 hours a week and participate in workshops and activities with their fellow group members and Project Leader. Three groups in close communities form a \"cluster\" that may often meet up together for certain activities. Each cluster of four projects is monitored by a Project Coordinator.\n\nDuring the program participants can expect to abide by certain standards of behaviour which fall into four main categories: participation, health and safety, and respect. Participants are monitored by their project leader, one who lives with them during each phase to lead the project. Project leaders can issue verbal warnings, commitments to improve, final warnings, and expulsions if the behavioural standards are not followed.\n\nKatimavik builds participants' skills during the course of the program by implementing five learning programs, comprising various essential activities and workshops. Katimavik also implements a learning plan, which uses an AARR educational model (Anticipation, Action, Reflection, Recognition) and follows participants through each community. Participants receive six letters of appraisal (3 from the project leaders, and 3 from work supervisors), as well as a certificate of completion upon completion of the program.\n\nWhile participants are in the program, they will spend a week of their time in each community living with a \"host family\". This is a family living in the community that has agreed to take on a participant (or two). This allows the participant to take some time off from group life, while living with members of the community, and learning what it's like to be a local.\n\nEvery group, every three months, is given budgets of varying amounts in each the following categories: Cultural Discovery, Environment, Healthy Life Style, Second Languages and Leadership. This money is spent in ways that correspond to program's learning objectives. The goal of the program's educational component is to build the capacities of participants in the following key areas:\n\nIn the 2012 Canadian federal budget, Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced that the program will be eliminated. The stated reason was the comparatively high per-person cost of the program when compared to other government youth initiatives.\n\nA Nationwide day of protest was held on July 21, 2012. Prominent politicians such as Elizabeth May, leader of the Green Party, and NDP MP Charmaine Borg supported the rally.\n\nThe Conservative party encountered protest from politicians and supporters of the program after the budget was announced. An Ontarian mother, Colleen Cleve attempted to lodge a Class-Action lawsuit on behalf of the 600 Canadian youths who were selected but retroactively denied, her own two children among them. She states that the Federal government prematurely revoked and reneged on the contract with the youths, as government funding was not scheduled to expire until a year later in March 2013.\n\nNDP MP Charmaine Borg embarked on a cross-country tour to raise awareness and rally support in 2012. She has also introduced Bill 352 to restore $15M CAD Federal funding to the program.\n\nLiberal party leader Justin Trudeau called for restoring funding to the program. His father Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau established the program. The Katimavik online petition was one of the many launched by the Liberal Party in 2012. Justin Trudeau claimed that the reasons the program was cancelled were ideological differences, comparing the $14M for the community-oriented Katimavik program with $207M for the military-oriented Cadet program.\n\nThere was a cross-country movement of Katimavik activists to relay packages to Stephen Harper, including a journal signed by supporters along the way, a Katimavik T-shirt and signed petitions requesting reversal of the decision. The relay was routed through 50 communities served by Katimavik.\n\nOlympic gold medalist kayaker Adam van Koeverden claims that he owes his own existence to an encounter between his parents who worked as Katimavik team leaders upon university graduation and for five years later. Van Koeverden describes Canadian youths as suffering from a crisis of identity as they try to define their relevance in life, and that Katimavik would be ideal to help them discover themselves.\n\nIn 2012, the University of Ottawa chapter of the Young Liberals of Canada devised a 'Pennies 4 Katimavik' penny drive inspired by the budget's announcement of the Canadian penny's obsolescence and of termination of government funding. The event was intended to raise $5K CAD and to inform the public of the merit of Katimavik and of the fate of its funding. Similar drives were conducted through the country and announced by the project's Facebook page.\n\nA Katimavik-affiliated program, 'Volunteering to Independence Program', where youths from Ontario were dispatched to Peterborough began in September 2013. The program varies from the old Katimavik program in that the program has no rotations and participants are from Ontario rather than across Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10105402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10105402", "title": "Lawrence Beesley", "text": "Lawrence Beesley\n\nLawrence Beesley (31 December 1877 – 14 February 1967) was an English science teacher, journalist and author who was a survivor of the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\".\n\nBeesley was educated at Derby School, where he was a scholar, and afterwards at Caius College, Cambridge, again as a scholar. He took a First Class degree in the Natural Science tripos in 1903.\n\nBeginning as a schoolmaster at Wirksworth Grammar School, he moved to Dulwich College, where he was a science master. In 1957 he was still teaching as Principal of the Northwood School of Coaching, Northwood, Middlesex.\n\nOne of the survivors of the sinking of the \"Titanic\" in April 1912, Beesley wrote a successful book about his experience, \"The Loss of the SS Titanic\" (June 1912), published just nine weeks after the disaster. He saw two second class women who tried to get on a lifeboat being instructed to go back to their own deck, and that their lifeboats were waiting there.\n\nAs Lifeboat No. 13 was being launched on the Boat Deck, no women or children were in immediate sight, but it seemed there was room for more. As a result, Beesley was instructed to jump into the lifeboat just before it launched. He managed to survive a subsequent incident where Lifeboat No. 15 nearly landed on top of No. 13. The leading stoker of boiler room No.6, Fred Barrett, managed to cut the ropes connecting the boat to the falls at the last minute, and those in both boats emerged unharmed. Beesley and the rest of the survivors were picked up by the RMS \"Carpathia\" in the early morning of 15 April.\n\nDuring the filming of \"A Night to Remember\" in 1958, Beesley famously gatecrashed the set during the sinking scene, hoping to 'go down with the ship'. But he was spotted by the director, Roy Ward Baker, who vetoed this unscheduled appearance due to actors' union rules. These events are parodied in Julian Barnes' novel \"A History of the World in 10.5 Chapters\", where Beesley makes a brief appearance as a fictional character.\n\nBeesley was portrayed by actor David Warner (who later played fictional character Lovejoy in James Cameron's 1997 Titanic film) in the 1979 dramatisation of the voyage and sinking, \"S.O.S. Titanic\". He is the grandfather of New York Times science editor Nicholas Wade. Beesley was also portrayed by Lawrence Bennett in 1999 musical stage adaptation \"Titanic\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54515455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54515455", "title": "Linda Woodaman Ostrander", "text": "Linda Woodaman Ostrander\n\nLinda Woodaman Ostrander (born February 17, 1937) is an American composer and writer.\n\nOstrander lived on Long Island as a child and her family supported her creativity. Her father taught her watercolor painting and music, while her mother encouraged her to write. She received a Bachelor of Music degree at Oberlin College in 1958, a Master of Arts degree from Smith College in 1960, and a Doctor of Musical Arts degree from Boston University in 1972. She was a lecturer at Adelphi University from 1961 to 1963, a faculty member at Southampton College from 1963 to 1964, a music consultant at Lesley College from 1972 to 1973, and an assistant professor at Bunker Hill Community College. \n\nOstrander received the Settie Lehman Fatman Prize in 1960. She has a listing in \"International Who's who in Music and Musicians' Directory\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32561841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32561841", "title": "List of World Book Day books", "text": "List of World Book Day books\n\nThis is a list of books released for the UK World Book Day. In 1998 and 1999 a specially created WBD anthology priced at £1 (€1.50 in Ireland) was published. In 2000, instead of a single £1 special anthology, four separate £1 books were published, covering a wider age-range. Since then, each year has seen a new set of special £1 books published.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2011 flip books were published containing stories by two different authors one starting at each end of the book. 2012 saw the return of single story books and the first E-books published simultaneously.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVia the free \"The World Book Day App\" released for iPhone and iPad six exclusive short stories were published.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4134966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4134966", "title": "List of libraries in the ancient world", "text": "List of libraries in the ancient world\n\nThe great libraries of the ancient world served as archives for empires, sanctuaries for sacred writings, and depositories of literature and chronicles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe great seats of learning in the ancient Indian subcontinent include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1891198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1891198", "title": "Mary Hesse", "text": "Mary Hesse\n\nMary Brenda Hesse (15 October 1924 – 2 October 2016) was an English philosopher of science and Professor Emeritus of Philosophy of Science at the University of Cambridge, known for her work on the relevance of analogies and models in science. Her book \"Models and Analogies in Science\" (1963/66) is considered a seminal work in the field and among the most influential works of the 20th century in her field.\n\nBorn in Reigate in Surrey, England, Hesse studied at the Imperial College London, where she received her doctorate in 1948. She further acquired a Master of Science in 1949 from University College London.\n\nAfter graduation Hesse started her academic career as lecturer in Mathematics at the University of Leeds. From 1955 to 1959 she taught Philosophy of Science and History at the University of London. In 1960 she joined Wolfson College, Cambridge, where from 1975 to her retirement in the 1990s she was Professor of Philosophy of Science. Among her PhD students was Paul Cilliers (PhD, 1994).\n\nOver the years Hesse was Visiting Professor at several Universities in Europe and the United States. She was elected a Fellow of the British Academy and in 1979 chosen as president of the Philosophy of Science Association. (SA)\n\nHesse's work has focussed on the philosophical interpretation of logic and scientific methods, as well as to the principles of the natural and social sciences. She suggested a scientific methodology based on an analogical modelling approach. She distinguishes those models in formal and material, as well as positive, negative and neutral analog properties.\n\nHer publication \"Models and Analogies in Science\" is a widely cited and accessible introduction to the topic. Hesse argues, contra Duhem, that models and analogies are integral to understanding scientific practice in general and scientific advancement in particular, especially how the domain of a scientific theory is extended and how theories generate genuinely novel predictions. Examples of such models include the famous billiard ball model of the dynamical theory of gases and models of light based on analogies to sound and water waves.\n\nHesse thought that, in order help us understand a new system or phenomenon, we will often create an analogical model that compares this new system or phenomenon with a more familiar system or phenomenon. In her book, Hesse makes a distinction between three types of analogues in scientific models: \nPositive analogies are those features which are known or thought to be shared by both systems, negative analogies are those features which are known or thought to be present in one system but absent in the other, and neutral analogies are those features whose status as positive or negative analogies is uncertain at present.\n\nNeutral analogies are by far the most interesting of the three types of analogies, for they suggest ways to test the limits of our models, guiding the way for scientific advancement. In the late 19th century, for example, the idea that light-waves have a physical medium called the luminiferous ether would have been best thought of as a neutral analogy with water and sound waves. Eventually, due to a null result in the Michelson–Morley and Trouton–Noble experiments, as well as other similar experiments, this analogy came to be accepted as a negative analogy - we now accept that light has no physical medium, unlike sound and water waves. The discovery of this negative analogy led to further advances, including the unification of electromagnetic theory with optics, and the eventual creation of new and more informative models of light.\n\nBooks, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "23786289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23786289", "title": "MusicLearningLive", "text": "MusicLearningLive\n\nMusicLearningLive! was a series of national music education conferences taking place in the UK. The most recent conference, musiclearninglive!2012, took place at the Institute of Education in London on 12 & 13 March 2012. The first musiclearninglive event took place in January 2008 at The Sage Gateshead, with musiclearninglive!2009 (March 2009) and musiclearninglive!2010 (February 2010) held at the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester.\n"}
{"id": "23349505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23349505", "title": "Pat Roberts Intelligence Scholars Program", "text": "Pat Roberts Intelligence Scholars Program\n\nThe Pat Roberts Intelligence Scholars Program (PRISP) is a program which \"links undergraduate and graduate students with US security and intelligence agencies\" by providing funding to selected US students entering university, in return for a commitment to join the agency for at least 18 months on graduation. PRISP is a decentralized program which funds students through various intelligence agencies. The program was established by the US Congress in 2004. In 2010 it became a permanent, authorized funded IC program. By 2011 most IC agencies participate in this program which is designated to recruit and train analysts and linguists. PRISP funding can be used to pay hiring incentives, such as a recruitment bonus or reimburse previous educational expenses for individuals who already possess the necessary skills (language, specialized scientific or geographical area expertise), or to provide additional education or training for those selected for the program. There is a service obligation of 18 months. IC agencies' websites should be consulted for specifics on any particular agency's PRISP program participation.\n\nThe brainchild of University of Kansas anthropologist Felix Moos, who was advocating it as early as 1995, PRISP was originally a $4m pilot project funded under section 318 of the 2004 Intelligence Authorization Act. In the pilot phase, between 100 and 150 students received funding. In June 2009 it was reported that Barack Obama's administration was planning to make PRISP a permanent program.\n\nStudents are required not to reveal their funding, and must attend \"summer military intelligence camps.\" There have been fears raised by academics in the US and UK that the program might put anthropology students at risk when they do overseas fieldwork in dangerous locations, by creating the possibility that students on fieldwork are linked with US intelligence agencies. The secrecy is \"a reminder for some of the bad old days of the 1960s, when the FBI and CIA kept tabs on the political views of U.S. professors.\"\n\nPRISP is named after Senator Pat Roberts (the then Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence). In April 2009, Citizens Against Government Waste gave PRISP a \"Narcissist Award\".\n\nIn 2005, following PRISP, an additional, similar program (Intelligence Community Scholars Program, ICSP) was approved. \"ICSP participants owe two years of intelligence agency work for every year of funded education.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7684624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7684624", "title": "Peace Mala", "text": "Peace Mala\n\nPeace Mala (The Peace Mala Project for World Peace), is an organisation based in Morriston in Swansea, Wales dedicated to fostering inter-cultural and inter-faith tolerance through the manufacture, distribution and wearing of a symbolic mala (bracelet) whose beads represent various faiths.\n\nThe organisation's stated aims are \"promotion of understanding, respect, friendship, tolerance and peace between all communities, cultures and enlightened, compassionate faiths\".\n\nA Peace Mala is a symbolic bracelet used to promote the message of the Golden Rule of mutual respect recognised by many spiritual paths. It consists of 16 beads, forming a double rainbow, which represent Christianity, Buddhism, Sikhism, Islam, Judaism, Bahá'í, ISKCON, Zoroastrianism, Tribal and Native Religions, Jainism, Earth religions, Taoism, Hinduism and Yungdrung Bön. The central white bead represents the wearer and whatever path they follow, with two knots on the elastic thread: one symbolising the wearer's uniqueness, the other a reminder of causality and the path of peace and friendship to follow.\n\nPeace Mala was founded in 2002 by Pam Evans, former Head of the Department of Religious Studies at Coedcae Comprehensive School in Llanelli, Carmarthenshire, Wales. The idea arose from class discussions about the contribution of the \"9/11\" attacks in New York to Islamophobia, racism, religious intolerance and fundamentalism worldwide, as well as local effects exemplified by the experience of the student Imran Sheikh: \"I suffered from racist taunts and our local mosque was attacked following September 11 and that is when the Peace Mala all started.\" In 2005 Evans gave up her position as Head of Department at Coedcae School to focus on her work with Peace Mala. On 16 November 2006, (25th Shawwal 1427 AH), Evans was awarded the \"Noble Soul\" Award 2006 in recognition of her outstanding contribution to challenging Islamophobia in schools. The award was presented by RAHMA (Racial Attacks and Harassment Monitoring Association) on the \"International Day of Peace.\"\n\nPeace Mala was officially launched in the UNA Temple of Peace in Cardiff on Wednesday 27 November 2002 by Archbishop of Wales Rowan Williams (later Archbishop of Canterbury). He was joined by members of the fourteen faiths represented on the Peace Mala bracelet, whose procession opened the ceremony, along with NGOs, students and teachers of schools from across Wales, lecturers from the University of Wales, and pupils and staff of Coedcae Comprehensive School.\n\nThrough the promotion of peace, tolerance and respect, Peace Mala has received numerous awards for their work, notably The Prince's Trust Millennium Award in 2003, the Co-op Community Dividend Award in 2003, the ChildLine Cymru CHIPS Friendship and Respect Award in 2003 (1st Prize), and the Carmarthenshire Police Community Challenge Award in 2004. In 2004 Peace Mala was also awarded First Prize in the CEWC-Cymru \"Right-On\" National Competition to promote Human Rights in Welsh schools. In 2006 Peace Mala was awarded a grant by Awards for All (Wales) in support of the Peace Mala Awards for Youth.\n\nOn 21 February 2007, Peace Mala, already a company limited by guarantee and not having a share capital, was entered in the Central Register of Charities as Registered Charity No. 1118053.\n\nRowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury, was patron of Peace Mala from 2003 until 2008, and was succeeded by Lama Khemsar Rinpoche, Spiritual Director of the \"Yundrung Bön Study Centre\".\n\nWilliams and Evans first met when he visited Coedcae School to give talks to the pupils about his work as Archbishop of Wales, a position now held by Barry Morgan. Williams was one of the first persons to be contacted by Evans when she came up with the idea of the Peace Mala. One of Williams's final acts as Archbishop of Wales was to join 14 other religious dignitaries in the launch of the Peace Mala in November 2002.\n\nIn 2003 Evans invited Williams to be a patron; he held the position until 2008.\n\nLama Khemsar Rinpoche also visited Coedcae School prior to his involvement with Peace Mala. Rinpoche left Tibet in 1959, and is the first resident Lama of the Yungdrung Bön tradition in Europe. He also teaches widely in the US.\n\nEvans invited Lama Khemsar Rinpoche to be a patron of the organisation, and he accepted.\n\nSince then, Lama Khemsar Rinpoche's students have made use of the main room in the Peace Mala Registered Office for their weekly Bön Zogchen Ngöndro prayers and meditations. The Tibetan room at the centre is often used by Rinpoche when he visits Wales.\n\nThe Peace Mala website was created in 2002 using money granted by the Princes Trust Millennium Award. It was designed and published using 100% solar power by the web publishing company Arcania. The website includes news articles relating to Peace Mala activities and endorsements from prominent religious leaders, political dignitaries and celebrities including the Pope John Paul II, the 14th Dalai Lama, Jillian Evans MEP, Sir Mark Tully Beth Nielsen Chapman, Bonnie Tyler and Barbara Dickson.\n\nOn Wednesday 18 August 2004, the Peace Mala Registered Office was officially opened during a ceremony attended by the Lord Mayor and Consort of the City of Swansea.\n\nThe registered office is used as a base for Peace Mala activities including workshops and public talks. Yungdrung Bön practitioners in Wales also use the centre for their weekly \"Bon Zogchen Ngon-Dro\" prayers and meditations. Yungdrung Bön (meaning \"Eternal Light\" or \"Enlightened Teaching\") is the pre-Buddhist Bön faith of Tibet.\n\nAttached to the registered office is a peace garden with many features including a shrine to Saint Francis of Assisi, Buddhist statues and prayer flags, a miniature Zen-style stone garden, water features, and a tree area which has been blessed in a ceremony led by Witches, and Druids. There is also a tranquil area facing Mecca, which is dedicated to the Muslim faith.\n\nPeace Mala outlined its \"Main Aims\" as:\n\nPeace Mala works to engages with schools to educate youths into becoming \"global citizens through the promotion of respect, friendship, tolerance and peace between all communities and faiths\".\n\nIn 2006 Peace Mala launched the \"Peace Mala Awards for Youth\". The awards and competition encourage young people \"... to become aware of and involved with issues of peace, justice, tolerance and friendship.\". The competition focuses in issues of equality, human rights and global citizenship.\n\nThe Youth Awards allows entrants from educational institutions, youth groups and faith groups. Two prizes are awarded: one for juniors (5–11) and the other for seniors (12–18). The awards were accompanied by cash prizes, and occasionally donated gifts such as commemorative framed posters signed by Gary Marlon Suson from the Ground Zero Museum Workshop.\n\nIn 2007 the Peace Mala Awards for Youth became an international competition with youth groups in the USA taking part in the project. In 2009 the Awards were superseded by the Peace Mala Accreditation.\n\nIn September 2009 Peace Mala celebrated the last Youth Awards ceremony, where the Awards were replaced an accreditation for schools, youth groups and community groups. As the Awards had focused on competitive engagement by schools and some youth groups, the accreditation would be more cooperative and inclusive. Schools and groups are encouraged to include the vision and objectives of Peace Mala within their ethos via the seven criteria and accreditation is awarded when the seven criteria have been successfully fulfilled as outlined in the self-assessment form available to applicants. These seven areas are intended to fit into the school, youth group or community group's values system and are in line with the objectives and vision of Peace Mala.\n\nApplicants for accreditation are judged against seven key criteria:\n\n\nAlong with education and youth engagement, with the religious nature of its founding, Peace Mala engages regularly with interfaith and diversity engagement and occasions. Awareness events and fundraisers are regular occurrences.\n\nPilgrimages have been used by Peace Mala as a means of promotion, but also as a means to engage communities in interfaith involvement and raise awareness of local areas of interest and community diversity.\n\nIn May 2011, volunteers discovered a route map which may have been a pilgrimage path linking the Celtic churches of the Gower Peninsula, as well pre-Christian sites such as holy wells and cromlech stones. A pilgrimage was organised, therefore, the next year to celebrate Peace Mala's first decennial year. The pilgrimage included one pilgrim who was joined at different legs of the pilgrimage culminating in a ceremony at St. Rhidian's Church in Llanrhidian. For the pilgrimage, Pam Evans travelled to Kildare to receive the flame of Brigid of the Brigidine Sisters of the Solas Bhríde hermitage; she then received the World Peace Flame at the Dru International Training Centre for Education and Wellbeing in Snowdonia National Park; finally, various faith representatives attended a ceremony where a flame was blessed at the shrine of St David at St David's Cathedral by The Very Revd Jonathan Lean. These three flames were used during the start of the pilgrimage, where the lights were blessed by The Rt Revd John Davies, Bishop of Swansea and Brecon; as well as at the end, where the flames were blessed by numerous faith representatives including Muslim, Druid and Buddhists, as well as ISKCON sannyasa who greeted the pilgrims with kirtan.\n\nAt each of the sites visited, the main pilgrim lit votive candles and recited a prayer composed for the pilgrimage. She was joined on various days by school children as well as fellow pilgrims.\n\nOn Thursday 9 May 2013, Ascension Day, Peace Mala led a one-day pilgrimage as means of a revival of a postulated pilgrimage route to a now-defunct early Celtic monastery founded by St David on the site of the current parish Church of St David and St Cyfelach in Llangyfelach.\n\nThe participants in the pilgrimage included pupil from St John Lloyd Catholic School in Llanelli, Hafod Primary School in Swansea and Catwg Primary School. Also in procession were dignitaries from numerous faith, including The Rt Rev'd John Davies, Bishop of Swansea and Brecon, as well as representatives from the Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University, the Catholic Church, Anglican Communion and Kagyu Tibetan Buddhism among many others.\n\nPeace Mala released 14 small symbolic doves made from wood painted in the Peace Mala colours and each carrying a Peace Mala bracelet (along with other items) during a ceremony that took place in the Peace Mala peace garden on 30th April 2015. The Deputy Lord Mayor of the City and County of Swansea, the Mayor and Mayoress of Neath Port Talbot, Regional Chief of Police, Bishop Tom Burns of Menevia, representatives of several faith communities and pupils and teachers from some of Peace Mala Accredited schools were all in attendance.\n\nThe founder aims that as the Doves of Peace (also known as 'Peace Doves') travel the UK and across the world, they will raise awareness of the work of Peace Mala with schools, youth groups and community groups. Within the first few months after the launch, three of the doves travelled to the USA, Ireland, Holland, Italy, Cyprus, Israel, Africa, Hong Kong and Japan. The journeys of the 14 doves are being tracked to provide a geography project for schools and youth groups. This information is published on Facebook, Twitter and our interactive world maps for people to follow online.\n\nEach dove is being sponsored on its travels, thereby also bringing financial support and security for the future work of the Peace Mala educational charity. One doves in particular, number 13, is known as the Inter-Faith Dove of Peace. Information on how to sponsor the doves is available on the Peace Mala website.\n\nThe Peace Mala Festival of Inter-Faith and Culture for Education was held at the award-winning, beautifully restored setting of The Monastery Manchester in Gorton on 4 October 2010. The festival was organised by Laura Daniels, Head Teacher of Woodheys Primary School in Sale Greater Manchester, one of the first accredited schools in the UK. Daniels came on board as an educational ambassador for Peace Mala in 2008.\n\nThe festival brought together Peace Mala with the Greater Manchester Authorities and representatives of local Faith and Peace groups to celebrate humanity, unity and diversity. Messages of support came from the First Minister of the Welsh Assembly Government, the Archbishop of Wales and the former Bishop of Jerusalem and the Middle East. Other support was shown by organisations including One World Week, The Interfaith Foundation, Spiritual England, Trafford CYPS and Redeeming Our Communities Manchester.\n\nMany schools, cultural communities and representatives of faith communities took part. Guest of honour and main speaker was Terry Waite CBE.\n\nOn 10 June 2010 the founder of Peace Mala was honoured with the Recognising Achievement for Service to Wales. This award was first introduced by the Welsh Assembly Government in 2009. The 2010 Award for Promoting Tolerance was carefully selected to mark the 65th anniversary of the end of World War II and the liberation of the death camps in Auschwitz and elsewhere. Evans received this honour from the First Minister Carwyn Jones AM in recognition of her work with Peace Mala and her positive stand against all forms of inequality and intolerance.\n\nPeace Mala units at Primary and Secondary level included in the new Religious Education Agreed Syllabus for Trafford Education Authority UK\n\nOn Wednesday 9 February 2011, the founder was invited to take part in a full day of meetings with Trafford Education Authority to discuss the inclusion of Peace Mala units at primary and secondary level for the new RE Agreed Syllabus. This proved highly successful with ideas being shared between teachers and RE advisors including Steve Illingworth (Independent Educational Consultant and Education Link Officer to Salford SACRE) and Erica Pounce, School Improvement Partner and Link Advisor for Primary Education. Pounce reported that they had worked as a Collaborative with other Greater Manchester SACREs but had also developed a distinctive local flavour, which is where the Peace Mala Units would sit as an optional unit and as an example of a compelling learning experience.\nThe New RE syllabus for Trafford Education Authority, including units on Peace Mala, was launched on 24 March 2011.\n\nIn July 2017 the Peace Mala International Interfaith Liturgy for World Peace took place at Llandaff Cathedral Wales. This major event took almost two years to organise and plan. The idea came to the founder after the Paris terrorist attacks on Friday 13 the November 2015. The founder felt urged to bring the Peace Mala community together and Llandaff Cathedral immediately sprang to mind as a venue for this. She also felt it was time to put the spotlight on the work being achieved by the children and young people in Peace Mala schools. The purpose would be to send out a message of love, friendship and peace to all people in our world. Representatives from sixteen religions, including three Christian Bishops, and supporters from across the UK and beyond attended and took part. These included dignitaries from Cardiff, Swansea, Neath Port Talbot and Greater Manchester and Peace Mala schools from across Wales, Greater Manchester and Yorkshire. The cathedral was filled to capacity and turned out to be the largest interfaith gathering for world peace that Wales had hosted.\n\nOn September 21st 2017, Peace Mala celebrated the UN International Day of Peace at St Joseph’s Catholic Cathedral in Swansea Wales UK. This was thanks to the invitation of Bishop Tom Burns of Menevia and the support of the Dean, Rev. Fr. Benedict Koledoye. Seven schools attended and took part in the Peace Mala Youth Liturgy for World Peace. Peace Mala linked up with One Day one Choir, a global peace initiative which uses the harmonious power of singing together to unite people around the world on Peace Day.\n\nPeace Mala schools that could not be present at the event sang the Peace Mala Anthem, ‘One Light’ in their school assemblies across the UK. Lee Michael Walton, composer of the anthem, drove from London and back to accompany the children’s singing on St Joseph’s Cathedral organ. When it came to the final prayer and blessing from Bishop Tom, he susprised the congregation with an Apostolic Blessing from Pope Francis,\n\n\"His Holiness Pope Francis presents his good wishes to Pam Evans and to all those persons involved in Peace Mala and imparts to them the requested Apostolic Blessing upon their work for world peace and encourages them with his prayers.\"\n\nThis message and blessing which has a seal signed by the Apostolic Nuncio, is now on the office wall of Peace Mala HQ in Swansea.\n\nOn September 21st 2018 Peace Mala will be working with St David's Church in Neath to host a Youth Liturgy for World Peace on the UN International Day of Peace. Peace Mala accredited schools and those working towards accreditation will be joined by local dignitaries and 21 representatives from eleven different faiths.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "752465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752465", "title": "Philosophical Gourmet Report", "text": "Philosophical Gourmet Report\n\nThe Philosophical Gourmet Report (also known as the Leiter Report or PGR), founded by philosophy and law professor Brian Leiter and now edited by philosophy professors Berit Brogaard and Christopher Pynes, is a ranking of graduate programs in philosophy in the English-speaking world.\n\nThe \"Gourmet\" Report ranking was created in response to the Gourman Report, and is based on a survey of philosophers who are nominated as evaluators by the Report's Advisory Board. Its purpose is to provide guidance to prospective Ph.D students, particularly those students who intend to pursue a professional career in academic philosophy. The Report first appeared on the web in 1996; it has been distributed by Blackwell since 1997.\n\nIn 1989, while he was a graduate student, Leiter made a subjective list of what he believed to be the top 25 graduate philosophy programs in the United States, which came to be the PGR. The PGR was described by David L. Kirp in a 2003 \"New York Times\" op-ed as \"the bible for prospective [philosophy] graduate students.\" George Yancy, in \"Reframing the Practice of Philosophy: Bodies of Color, Bodies of Knowledge\" (SUNY Press, 2012), opined that Philosophical Gourmet Report ranking: \"is, of course, very controversial. However, as is often pointed out, there is no real alternative.\" Carlin Romano, in \"America the Philosophical\" (Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2013), referred to the PGR rankings as \"often-criticized\" and \"biased towards mainstream analytic departments\".\n\nIn 2002, 175 philosophers signed an open letter calling on Leiter to stop producing the PGR. In fall 2014, over 600 philosophers signed a petition to boycott the PGR. The petition was organized by some philosophers at University of British Columbia to protest what they called a \"derogatory and intimidating\" e-mail sent by Leiter to one of their colleagues. Leiter claimed the recipient had threatened him. 24 of the 56 members of the Advisory Board of the PGR recommended he relinquish control over the Report's management. In response, Leiter appointed Berit Brogaard, a philosophy professor at the University of Miami, as co-editor for the 2014 report and agreed to step down as editor of subsequent editions. Leiter subsequently appointed Christopher Pynes of Western Illinois University as co-editor of future editions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13330130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13330130", "title": "Private University of Science and Arts", "text": "Private University of Science and Arts\n\nThe Private University of Science and Arts was a private university in Aleppo, Syria, established in 2003. It has two faculties: Architecture and Fine Arts. The owner of the university Farid Jwala. The university were the first private university open up in Syria. The university were in the middle of Aleppo\n\n"}
{"id": "1077130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077130", "title": "Puerto Rico Education Council", "text": "Puerto Rico Education Council\n\nThe Council of Education of Puerto Rico (CEPR) is an agency of the executive branch of the government of Puerto Rico and the governing body that administers public policy on education standards in Puerto Rico, as well as issuing licenses to establish and operate educational institutions in Puerto Rico. The Council also ensures access to quality education for all citizens and legal residents in Puerto Rico at the level and modality they require and where they demand it.\n\nThe Council was formed by consolidating the Council on General Education and the Council on Higher Education on July 26, 2010 as part of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "7264170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7264170", "title": "SAHANZ", "text": "SAHANZ\n\nSAHANZ (\"Society of Architectural Historians, Australia and New Zealand\") was founded in South Australia in 1984. It is a scholarly society for the advancement of research into the history of architecture, with a focus on New Zealand, Australia and the South Pacific. It holds an annual conference and produces a journal, \"Fabrications\".\n\nTo provide standards of excellence in architectural history through the following means:\n\nSAHANZ was established in 1984 by Professor David Saunders, at the University of Adelaide, South Australia. Throughout its history the society has promoted collegiality amongst its members, however, as Julia Gatley has written, this history has not been without its tensions, particularly between the \"empiricist historians and those with a commitment to theory.\" (Gatley, J. 'SAHANZ: the first 50 years', in \"Fabrications\" 13, 2, May 2004, pp. 63–77.) The society is a partner organisation of the Society of Architectural Historians (USA).\n\nSAHANZ produces two main publications: the \"Fabrications\" journal, and proceedings of the annual Society conference.\n\nA listing of the conferences back to 1984 is available on the society’s website.\n\n\"Fabrications\" is the refereed journal of the Society of Architectural Historians, Australia and New Zealand and is available through Taylor & Francis. Established in 1989, it is devoted to scholarly publication in the field of architectural history. While one need not be a member of SAHANZ to publish in \" Fabrications, \" the Journal's contents reflect the wide interests of the Society's diverse membership. It particularly welcomes papers on the architectural, urban and landscape history of Australia, New Zealand, the South Pacific and South-East Asian regions, while casting its net much further afield. The journal thus publishes refereed, academic essays and book reviews (by invitation or application) that are both purely concerned with the region, and which take a wider view of international questions, or issues beyond the Society's obvious frame of reference.\n\nTwo issues are published each year: usually one is open and the other themed. The Books Received and Book Reviews sections account for new publications in architectural history concerned with Australia, New Zealand, the South Pacific and South-East Asian regions. \"Fabrications\" is indexed in the Avery Index of Architecture Periodicals. [ISSN 1033-1867]. Listings of the contents of all back issues of \"Fabrications\" are available on the society’s website.\n\nSAHANZ invites professional, academic and student members who have an interest in the field of architectural history and theory in Australasia, Asia and the Pacific. Membership is renewed annually at the end of June. Members receive copies of \"Fabrications\", and discounted attendance at the annual conference of the Society. There is currently a membership of around 170, consisting primarily of academics from universities in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nSAHANZ offers an annual grant in memory of the founder of the Society, David Saunders. \"The David Saunders Founders Grant\" is intended to support research by beginning researchers who are members of SAHANZ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2539726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2539726", "title": "Sex columnist", "text": "Sex columnist\n\nA sex columnist is a writer of a newspaper or magazine column about sex. Sex advice columns may take the form of essays or, more frequently, answers to questions posed by readers. Sex advice columns can usually be found in alt weekly newspapers, women's magazines, health or fitness magazines, and student newspapers. While some are written by trained sexologists, many are penned by people lacking credentials in human sexuality and relationships, yet willing to divulge their opinions or personal bedroom antics.\n\nThe television series \"Sex and the City\" protagonist Carrie Bradshaw was a sex columnist, which author Candace Bushnell modeled after herself in her original non-fiction book based on a column of the same name. The show, which first aired in 1998, is credited with the increase of sex columnists found in college campus newspapers and blogs, such as at Ivy League colleges and many other schools. One such columnist, Meghan Bainum, at the University of Kansas, Lawrence, placed in the 42nd annual William Randolph Hearst Foundation Journalism Awards Program (2001–2002) for her column.\n\nAnka Radakovich was the first of a new breed of sex columnists for whom \"every detail of the writer's psyche is splayed across the page ... confessional journalism at its most intimate\". Radakovich had written for the old \"Details\" magazine when it was a chronicle of downtown fashion and night life. After James Truman became editor-in-chief and transformed \"Details\" into a men's magazine, he offered Radakovich a column in September 1990. She became the first modern-day magazine sex columnist working for a mainstream men's publication.\n\n\nSelected university newspaper columnists, past and present\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "471791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471791", "title": "Snopes.com", "text": "Snopes.com\n\nSnopes.com , formally known as the Urban Legends Reference Pages, is one of the first online fact-checking websites. It has been termed a \"well-regarded source for sorting out myths and rumors\" on the internet. It has also been seen as a source for validating and debunking urban legends and similar stories in American popular culture.\n\nIn 1994, David and Barbara Mikkelson created an urban folklore web site that would become Snopes.com. Snopes was an early online encyclopedia focused on urban legends, that mainly presented search results of user discussions. The site grew to encompass a wide range of subjects and became a resource to which Internet users began submitting pictures and stories of questionable veracity. According to the Mikkelsons, Snopes antedated the search engine concept where people could go to check facts by searches. David Mikkelson had originally adopted the username \"Snopes\" (the name of a family of often unpleasant people in the works of William Faulkner) as a username in the Usenet newsgroup alt.folklore.urban.\n\nIn 2002, the site had become well known enough that a television pilot called \"Snopes: Urban Legends\" was completed with American actor Jim Davidson as host. However, it did not air on major networks. Christopher Richmond and Drew Schoentrup later became owners with Mikkelson through a partnership with the founders of a company called Proper Media. By mid-2014, Barbara had not written for the site \"in several years\" and David hired employees to assist him from Snopes.com's message board. The Mikkelsons divorced around that time, and Barbara no longer has an ownership stake in Snopes.com.\n\nOn March 9, 2017, David Mikkelson terminated a brokering agreement with Proper Media, the company that provides Snopes with web development, hosting, and advertising support. This prompted Proper Media to stop remitting advertising revenue and to file a lawsuit in May. In late June, Bardav—the company founded by David and Barbara Mikkelson in 2003 to own and operate snopes.com—started a GoFundMe campaign to raise money to continue operations. They raised $500,000 in 24 hours. Later, in August, a judge ordered Proper Media to disburse advertising revenues to Bardav while the case was pending.\n\nSnopes aims to debunk or confirm widely spread urban legends. The site has been referenced by news media and other sites, including CNN, MSNBC, \"Fortune\", \"Forbes\", and \"The New York Times\". By March 2009, the site had more than 6 million visitors per month. Mikkelson runs the website out of his home in Tacoma, Washington. \n\nMikkelson has stressed the \"reference\" portion of the name \"Urban Legends Reference Pages\", indicating that their intention is not merely to dismiss or confirm misconceptions and rumors but to provide evidence for such debunkings and confirmation as well. Where appropriate, pages are generally marked \"undetermined\" or \"unverifiable\" when there is not enough evidence to either support or disprove a given claim.\n\nIn an attempt to demonstrate the perils of over-reliance on the internet as authority, Snopes assembled a series of fabricated urban folklore tales that it terms \"The Repository of Lost Legends\". The name was chosen for its acronym, T.R.O.L.L., a reference to the early 1990s definition of the word \"troll\", meaning an Internet prank, of which David Mikkelson was a prominent practitioner.\n\nJan Harold Brunvand, a folklorist who has written a number of books on urban legends and modern folklore, considered the site so comprehensive in 2004 that he decided not to launch one of his own to similarly discuss the accuracy or various legends and rumors.\n\nIn 2012, FactCheck.org reviewed a sample of Snopes' responses to political rumors regarding George W. Bush, Sarah Palin, and Barack Obama, and found them to be free from bias in all cases. In 2012, \"The Florida Times-Union\" reported that About.com's urban legends researcher found a \"consistent effort to provide even-handed analyses\" and that Snopes' cited sources and numerous reputable analyses of its content confirm its accuracy. Mikkelson has said that the site receives more complaints of liberal bias than conservative bias, but added that the same debunking standards are applied to all political urban legends.\n\nCritics of the site have falsely asserted that it is funded by businessman and philanthropist George Soros, or linked sites. Snopes declared in 2016 that its revenue was derived from advertising. In 2016, it also received an award of $75,000 from the James Randi Educational Foundation, an organization formed to debunk paranormal claims. In 2017, it raised approximately $700,000 from a crowd-sourced GoFundMe effort and received $100,000 from Facebook as a part of a fact-checking partnership.\n\nAs of December 2017, Snopes.com's web traffic rank in the world stood at 3,798 with approximately 72% originating from the U.S. with web traffic declining from previous months. , Snopes.com's Alexa rating was 1,794. Approximately 80% of its visitors originate from within the United States. In 2017, the site attracted 20 million unique visitors in one month.\n\n"}
{"id": "32707477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32707477", "title": "Soviet training ship Dunay", "text": "Soviet training ship Dunay\n\nThe Dunay was a tall ship serving with the Soviet Navy, first launched as the Cristoforo Colombo, laid at the Castellammare yards on April 15, 1926. It was destroyed in a fire in 1963.\n\nIn 1925, the Regia Marina ordered two school ships to a design by General Lieutenant Francesco Rotundi of the Italian Navy Engineering Corps, inspired by the style of large late 18th century 74-cannon ships of the line. The first, the \"Cristoforo Colombo\", was put into service in 1928 and was used by the Italian Navy until 1943. After World War II, the ship was handed over to the Soviet Union as part of the war reparations demanded by the 1947 Paris Peace Treaty, and was decommissioned in 1959.\n\nThe second ship was the \"Amerigo Vespucci\", launched in 1931 and is still in service.\n\n"}
{"id": "40246034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40246034", "title": "Sri Madhukarnath", "text": "Sri Madhukarnath\n\nSri M (born Mumtaz Ali Khan) is a living Yogi and disciple of Sri Maheshwarnath Babaji who in turn was the disciple of Mahavatar Babaji. Sri M is also known as Sri Madhukarnath ji. Sri M lives at Madanapalle, Andhra Pradesh, India. He should not be confused with M or Mahendranath Gupta, a disciple of Ramakrishna.\n\nSri M or Mumtaz Ali Khan was born on 6 November 1948 into an affluent and liberal Muslim family in Trivandrum, Kerala. Sri M's maternal grandmother had Sufi connections and told him many Sufi stories in his childhood. In chapter 2 of his autobiography \"Apprenticed to a Himalayan Master,\" Sri M describes meeting his Guru Sri Maheshwarnath Babaji, who appeared in the garden of M's home in Trivandrum. M saw a distinguished and youthful-looking stranger with matted hair standing near a jackfruit tree. After a brief conversation, the stranger disappeared. This was a turning point in Sri M's life, who was nine years old at the time. Sri M says of this meeting: \"After the jackfruit tree incident, although outwardly I looked like any other boy of that age, my personality had undergone a profound change. A secret life went on within, side by side with the ordinary activities of day to day existence. The inner journey had begun and the first sign of this was that I began to meditate without even knowing the word meditation.\" Following this awakening, he made contact with a series of South Indian saints, including Bhagawan Nityananda of Ganeshpuri, Yogi Gopala Saami, Kaladi Mastan, Swami Abhedananda, Chempazhanti Swami, Swami Tapasyananda and Mai Ma.\n\nAccording to his autobiography, Sri M left his home at the age of nineteen to find his master in Himalayas. After getting exhausted by the endless search, he finally met Sri Maheshwarnath Babaji—the same person he had met when he was nine—at the Vyasa Cave, beyond Badrinath. He lived with his master for three and a half years and learnt many things. According to the book, he got initiated into the Nath tradition and got awakening of his Kundalini fire. He, along with his master took arduous journey to Tholingmutt in Tibet. His desire to meet the Grand Master – Sri Guru (Mahavatar Babaji) was also fulfilled at NeelaKanth hill with the grace of his master.\n\nThe author claims that Mahavatar Babaji, referred as Sri Guru in this book, was his master in a previous life. Sri M's guru Maheshwarnath Babaji is said to have the power to materialize and dematerialize, and assume any form on earth and beyond.\n\nAfter spending three years in the Himalayas as a wandering yogi with his master, Sri M was asked by his master to go back and prepare for his life mission. He returned from the Himalayas and travelled all over India, meeting many spiritual gurus such as Neem Karoli Baba, Lakshman Joo and J. Krishnamurti. He also spent a considerable amount of time in the Ramakrishna Mission and the Krishnamurti Foundation. While he was associated with the Krishnamurti Foundation, he met his future wife Sunanda Sanadi, with whom he now has two grown-up children. He started his teaching phase some years after his Master died.\n\nHe now heads the Satsang Foundation, which runs two schools in Andhra Pradesh: the Peepal Grove School and the Satsang Vidyalaya. The Peepal Grove School, which is a boarding school, was inaugurated by the former President of India A.P.J. Abdul Kalam in 2006. Satsang Vidyalaya is a free school meant for children in the Madanapalle area where Sri M himself lives. He also writes in Speaking Tree, a spiritual forum run by The Times of India.\n\nA documentary film called \"The Modern Mystic: Sri M of Madnapalle\" was made by director Raja Choudhury in 2011.\n\nIn 2015, Sri M undertook a long journey on foot (padayatra) called \"Walk of Hope\" from Kanyakumari to Kashmir, covering 7500 kilometres. The walk began on 12 January 2015, marking the birth anniversary of the saint Swami Vivekananda, who had himself undertaken a similar journey more than a century ago. With a group of dedicated fellow travellers, Sri M walked through 11 Indian states. He considered the Walk of Hope an exercise to restore the innate spirituality of the nation. The padayatra ended in Srinagar, Kashmir on 29 April 2016.\n\nIn April 2017, Sri M published the second part of his autobiography. \"The Journey Continues\" surpasses the earlier volume in apparently miraculous incidents (in the introduction Sri M speculates that his readers might believe he \"had finally gone bonkers\"); here Sri M recounts in detail many of his previous lives over a period that spans more than 2000 years, during which he (or she, since in several lives M apparently was a woman) was associated with numerous saints of India.\n\n\"Wisdom of the Rishis: The Three Upanishads (Ishavasya, Keno, Mandukya)\". Trans. Kamal Aswami. Satsang Communications, 2002.\n\n\"Apprenticed to a Himalayan Master.\" Magenta Press, 2010.\n\n\"Jewel in the Lotus: Deeper Aspects of Hinduism.\" Magenta Press, 2011.\n\n\"The Journey Continues.\" Magenta Press, 2017.\n\nShunya (2018) westland by amazon\n\n"}
{"id": "20978184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20978184", "title": "Standing wheelchair", "text": "Standing wheelchair\n\nA standing wheelchair (also known as a standing chair) is assistive technology, similar to a standing frame, that allows a wheelchair user to raise the chair from a seated to a standing position. The standing wheelchair supports the person in a standing position and enables interaction with people and objects at eye level.\n\nStanding wheelchairs can be either manually operated, have power-operated wheels but manual lifting mechanisms or be fully powered with, for example, hydraulic lifting mechanisms. They are used both to achieve regular mobility and to stand the person up using hydraulics or other power sources. Some standing wheelchairs may be driven from the standing position, however there is some medical concern of an increased risk of long bone fractures while driving due to the legs being under a heavy load.\n\nStanding wheelchairs are used by people with mild to severe disabilities including: spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, cerebral palsy, spina bifida, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, stroke, rett syndrome, post-polio syndrome and more.\n\nSpinal cord injury – Standing chairs are used by people with both paraplegia and quadriplegia since a variety of standing options are available to accommodate for mild to severe disabilities.\n\nNumerous studies have shown evidence that standing wheelchairs may provide specific health benefits. Some of these health benefits include improved circulation, urinary health, bowel function and bone density. Standing wheelchairs may also improve over all quality of life and independence among users.\n\nMedicare may help fund some portion of a standing wheelchair, while Medicaid funding varies from state-to-state in the U.S. Many insurance companies, vocational rehabilitation organizations, and medical case managers are increasingly funding standing wheelchairs because of the long-term health and quality of life benefits that come from passive standing.\n\nFunding (government funding or insurance) for standing equipment is achievable, but usually requires medical justification and a letter of medical necessity (a detailed prescription) written by a physical therapist or medical professional.\n\nIn the U.S. there are various funding options for purchasing durable medical equipment (DME) such as standing wheelchairs:\nMost states have resources such as PAAT (Protection Advocacy for Assistive Technology) and State Technology Assistance Projects that are resources for consumers seeking funding or going through the appeals process.\n"}
{"id": "21210154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21210154", "title": "Tajikistan Humanitarian International University", "text": "Tajikistan Humanitarian International University\n\nTajikistan Humanitarian International University is a university in Tajikistan. It is located in Dushanbe.\n"}
{"id": "21171928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21171928", "title": "Telesensory Systems", "text": "Telesensory Systems\n\nTelesensory Systems, Inc. (TSI) (later\" TeleSensory Corporation\") was an American corporation that invented, designed, manufactured, and distributed technological aids for blind and low vision persons. TSI's products helped visually impaired people work independently with computers and with ordinary printed materials.\n\nThe Optacon, TSI's first product, was conceived by Electrical Engineering Professor John G. Linvill as a means for his blind daughter, Candy, to read ordinary print. The Optacon development, led by James C. Bliss, involved dozens of engineers and scientists at Stanford University and at Stanford Research Institute (now SRI International) starting in 1962. Following the successful demonstration of a functional prototype in 1969, TSI was founded in 1970 in Palo Alto, California, USA. TSI developed a line of products for blind people during the 1970s, and expanded into the low vision field in 1984.\n\nTSI's products for blind people employed either tactile or auditory means of conveying information; its low vision products increased the size and contrast of printed material or computer screen images. Some TSI products consisted of software only, but most also needed custom electronics hardware.\n\nFor thirty-five years TSI provided electronic assistive devices to visually impaired persons worldwide. Concurrently computer technology improved and computer operating systems began to incorporate accessibility options such as speech screen readers or magnification for no cost. Having changed its name to \"TeleSensory\", the company shifted its focus to low visions products and stopped manufacturing blindness products in the early 1990s.\n\nIn March, 2005, TeleSensory, the former TSI, abruptly declared Chapter 7 bankruptcy and all its employees were escorted from the building.\n\nIn August, 2005, InSiPhil (S) Pte Ltd. of Singapore purchased TeleSensory's intellectual property and remaining assets and resumed production of some of the low vision products under the name and logo of TeleSensory. As of early 2010, these products are available in 50 countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10454654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10454654", "title": "UNESCO Artist for Peace", "text": "UNESCO Artist for Peace\n\nUNESCO Artists for Peace are international celebrity advocates for the United Nations agency UNESCO. This category of advocate is intended to heighten public awareness in addition to the categories UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador, UNESCO Special Envoy and UNESCO Champion for Sport. The programme started in 1995.\n\nThe following is a list of current UNESCO Artists for Peace:\n\n"}
{"id": "2043296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043296", "title": "United Nations Convention against Corruption", "text": "United Nations Convention against Corruption\n\nThe United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) is a multilateral treaty negotiated by member states of the and promoted by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). It is one of several legally binding international anti-corruption agreements. UNCAC requires state parties to the treaty to implement several anti-corruption measures that focus on five main areas: prevention, law enforcement, international cooperation, asset recovery, and technical assistance and information exchange.\n\nUNCAC's goal is to reduce various types of corruption that can occur across country borders, such as trading in influence and abuse of power, as well as corruption in the private sector, such as embezzlement and money laundering. Another goal of the UNCAC is to strengthen international law enforcement and judicial cooperation between countries by providing effective legal mechanisms for international asset recovery. The Conference of the States Parties to the UNCAC provides participating countries with resources and assistance to improve implementation of the obligations set forth by the Convention.\n\nUNCAC was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 31 October 2003 by Resolution 58/4. It was opened for signature in Mérida, Yucatán, Mexico, from 9–11 December 2003 and thereafter at UN headquarters in New York City. It was signed by 140 countries. As of August 2018, there are 186 parties, which includes 181 UN member states, the Cook Islands, Niue, the Holy See, the State of Palestine, and the European Union.\n\nAs of August 2018, the 12 UN member states that have not ratified the convention are (asterisk indicates that the state has signed the convention):\n\nUNCAC is the most recent of a long series of developments in which experts and politicians have recognized the far-reaching impact of corruption and economic crime that undermine the value of democracy, sustainable development, and rule of law. They have also recognized the need to develop effective measures against corruption at both the domestic and international levels. International action against corruption has progressed from general consideration and declarative statements to legally binding agreements. While at the beginning of the discussion measures were focused relatively narrowly on specific crimes, above all bribery, the understanding of corruption has become broader and so have the measures against it. UNCAC's comprehensive approach and the mandatory character of many of its provisions give proof of this development. UNCAC deals with forms of corruption that had not been covered by many of the earlier international instruments, such as trading in influence, abuse of function, and various types of corruption in the private sector. A further significant development was the inclusion of a specific chapter dealing with the recovery of stolen assets, a major concern for countries that pursue the assets of former leaders and other officials accused or found to have engaged in corruption.\n\nOther major anti-corruption conventions, such as the Inter-American Convention against Corruption, the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, and the African Union Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption, are restricted to either certain regions of the world or certain manifestations of corruption.!\n\nPursuant to article 63 of UNCAC, a Conference of the States Parties (CoSP) to UNCAC was established to improve the capacity of and cooperation between States Parties to achieve the objectives set forth in UNCAC, and to promote and review its implementation. UNODC acts as the secretariat to the CoSP.\n\nAt its different sessions, besides regularly calling States Parties and signatories to adapt their laws and regulations to bring them into conformity with the provisions of UNCAC\n\nThe CoSP has established a number of subsidiary bodies to further the implementation of specific aspects of UNCAC. The Implementation Review Group, which focuses on the implementation review mechanism and technical assistance, the Working Group on Asset Recovery, the Working Group on Prevention, as well as expert group meetings on international cooperation meet regularly in the intersessional period.\n\nThe first session of the CoSP took place on 10–14 December 2006 at the Dead Sea, Jordan. In its resolution 1/1, States Parties agreed that it was necessary to establish an appropriate and effective mechanism to assist in the review of the implementation of UNCAC. An inter-governmental working group was established to start working on the design of such a mechanism. Two other working groups were set up to promote coordination of activities related to technical assistance and asset recovery, respectively.\n\nThe second CoSP was held in Bali, Indonesia, from 28 January to 1 February 2008. As to the mechanism for the review of implementation, the States Parties decided to take into account a balanced geographical approach, to avoid any adversarial or punitive elements, to establish clear guidelines for every aspect of the mechanism and to promote universal adherence to UNCAC and the constructive collaboration in preventive measures, asset recovery, international cooperation and other areas. The CoSP also requested donors and receiving countries to strengthen coordination and enhance technical assistance for the implementation of UNCAC, and dealt with the issue of bribery of officials of public international organizations.\n\nThe third session of the CoSP took place in Doha, Qatar, from 9 to 13 November 2009. The CoSP adopted the landmark Resolution 3/1 on the review of the implementation of UNCAC, containing the terms of reference of the Implementation Review Mechanism(IRM). In view of the establishment of the IRM, and considering that the identification of needs and the delivery of technical assistance to facilitate the successful and consistent implementation of UNCAC are at the core of the mechanism, the CoSP decided to abolish the Working Group on Technical Assistance and to fold its mandate into the work of the Implementation Review Group. At its third session, for the first time, the CoSP also adopted a resolution on preventive measures, in which it established the Open-Ended Intergovernmental Working Group on Prevention to further explore good practices in this field. The CoSP was preceded and accompanied by numerous side events, such as the last Global Forum for Fighting Corruption and Safeguarding Integrity (in cooperation with businesses) and a Youth Forum.\n\nThe fourth session of the CoSP took place in Marrakech, Morocco, from 24 to 28 October 2011. The Conference considered the progress made in the IRM and recognized the importance of addressing technical assistance needs in the Review Mechanism. It also reiterated its support for the Working Groups on Asset Recovery and Prevention and established Open-Ended Intergovernmental Expert Group Meetings on International Cooperation to advise and assist the CoSP with respect to extradition and mutual legal assistance. In addition to its main agenda, the CoSP hosted 19 side events, bringing together governments and different parts of society, such as the private sector, parliamentarians, anti-corruption authorities and civil society organizations.\n\nThe next sessions of the CoSP will take place in Panama in 2013, the Russian Federation in 2015 and Austria in 2017.\n\nUNCAC covers five main areas: preventive measures, criminalization and law enforcement, international cooperation, asset recovery, and technical assistance and information exchange. It includes both mandatory and non-mandatory provisions.\n\nThe opening Articles of UNCAC include a statement of purpose (Article1), which covers both the promotion of integrity and accountability within each country and the support of international cooperation and technical assistance between States Parties.!\nThey also include definitions of critical terms used in the instrument. Some of these are similar to those used in other instruments, and in particular the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC), but those defining \"public official\", \"foreign public official\", and \" official of a public international organization\" are new and are important for determining the scope of application of UNCAC in these areas. UNCAC does not provide a definition of corruption.\nIn accordance with Article 2 of the UN Charter, Article 4 of UNCAC provides for the protection of national sovereignty of the States Parties.,\n\nUNCAC recognizes the importance of the prevention in both the public and private sectors. Chapter II includes preventive policies, such as the establishment of anti-corruption bodies and enhanced transparency in the financing of election campaigns and political parties. Anti-corruption bodies should implement anti-corruption policies, disseminate knowledge and must be independent, adequately resourced and have properly trained staff.\n\nCountries that sign the convention must assure safeguards their public services are subject to safeguards that promote efficiency, transparency and recruitment based on merit. Once recruited, public servants should be bound by codes of conduct, requirements for financial and other disclosures, and appropriate disciplinary measures. Transparency and accountability in the management of public finances must also be promoted, and specific requirements are established for the prevention of corruption in the particularly critical areas of the public sector, such as the judiciary and public procurement. Preventing corruption also requires an effort from all members of society at large. For these reasons, UNCAC calls on countries to promote actively the involvement of civil society, and to raise public awareness of corruption and what can be done about it. The requirements made for the public sector also apply to the private sector – it too is expected to adopt transparent procedures and codes of conduct.\n\nChapter III calls for parties to establish or maintain a series of specific criminal offences including not only long-established crimes such as bribery and embezzlement, but also conducts not previously criminalized in many states, such as trading in influence and other abuses of official functions. The broad range of ways in which corruption has manifested itself in different countries and the novelty of some of the offences pose serious legislative and constitutional challenges, a fact reflected in the decision of the Ad Hoc Committee to make some of the provisions either optional (\"…shall consider adopting…\") or subject to domestic constitutional or other fundamental requirements (\"…subject to its constitution and the fundamental principles of its legal system…\"). Specific acts that parties must criminalize include \nOther mandatory crimes include obstruction of justice, and the concealment, conversion or transfer of criminal proceeds (money laundering). Sanctions extend to those who participate in and may extend to those who attempt to commit corruption offences. UNCAC thus goes beyond previous instruments of this kind that request parties to criminalize only basic forms of corruption. Parties are encouraged – but not required – to criminalize, \"inter alia\", passive bribery of foreign and international public officials, trading in influence, abuse of function, illicit enrichment, private sector bribery and embezzlement, and the concealment of illicit assets.\n\nFurthermore, parties are required to simplify rules pertaining to evidence of corrupt behavior by, inter alia, ensuring that obstacles that may arise from the application of bank secrecy laws are overcome. This is especially important, as corrupt acts are frequently very difficult to prove in court. Particularly important is also the introduction of the liability of legal persons. In the area of law enforcement, UNCAC calls for better cooperation between national and international bodies and with civil society. There is a provision for the protection of witnesses, victims, expert witnesses and whistle blowers to ensure that law enforcement is truly effective.\n\nRussia ratified the convention in 2006, but failed to include article 20, which criminalizes \"illicit enrichment.\" In March 2013, the Communist Party of the Russian Federation submitted a petition with 115,000 signatures to the State Duma in favour of doing so. In 2015, however, no such law was yet in effect in Russia.\n\nUnder Chapter IV of UNCAC, States Parties are obliged to assist one another in every aspect of the fight against corruption, including prevention, investigation, and the prosecution of offenders. Cooperation takes the form of extradition, mutual legal assistance, transfer of sentences persons and criminal proceedings, and law enforcement cooperation. Cooperation in civil and administrative matters is also encouraged. Based on Chapter IV, UNCAC itself can be used as a basis for extradition, mutual legal assistance and law enforcement with respect to corruption-related offences. \"Dual criminality\", which is a requirement that the relevant offence shall be criminalized in both the requesting and requested country, is considered fulfilled irrespective of whether the same terminology or category of offense is used in both jurisdictions. In case of a request for assistance involving non-coercive measures, States Parties are required to provide assistance even when dual criminality is absent subject only to the basic concepts of their legal systems. Chapter IV also contains other innovative provisions designed to facilitate international cooperation. For example, States Parties that use UNCAC as a basis for extradition shall not consider corruption-related offences as political ones; assistance can also be provided in relation to offences for which legal persons can be held responsible; and bank secrecy cannot be cited as a ground to refuse a request for assistance. In order to ensure speedy and efficient cooperation, each State Party is required to designate a central authority responsible for receiving MLA requests. Overall, Chapter IV provides a broad and flexible platform for international cooperation. However, its provisions do not exhaust all international cooperation issues covered by UNCAC, thus the purposes of UNCAC and provisions of other chapters also need to be taken into consideration.\n\nThe agreement on asset recovery is considered a major breakthrough and many observers claim that it is one of the reasons why so many developing countries have signed UNCAC. Asset recovery is indeed a very important issue for many developing countries where high-level corruption has plundered the national wealth. Reaching an agreement on this Chapter involved intensive negotiations, as the legitimate interests of countries wishing to recover illicit assets had to be reconciled with the legal and procedural safeguards of the countries from which assistance will be sought. Generally, in the course of the negotiations, countries seeking to recover assets sought to establish presumptions that would make clear their ownership of the assets and give priority for return over other means of disposal. Countries from which the return was likely to be sought, on the other hand, had concerns about the language that might have compromised basic human rights and procedural protections associated with criminal liability and the freezing, seizure, forfeiture and return of such assets.\n\nChapter V of UNCAC establishes asset recovery as a \"fundamental principle\" of the Convention. The provisions on asset recovery lay a framework, in both civil and criminal law, for tracing, freezing, forfeiting and returning funds obtained through corrupt activities. The requesting state will in most cases receive the recovered funds as long as it can prove ownership. In some cases, the funds may be returned directly to individual victims.\n\nIf no other arrangement is in place, States Parties may use the Convention itself as a legal basis. Article 54(1)(a) of UNCAC provides that: \"Each State Party (shall)... take such measures as may be necessary to permit its competent authorities to give effect to an order of confiscation issued by a court of another state party\" Indeed, Article 54(2)(a) of UNCAC also provides for the provisional freezing or seizing of property where there are sufficient grounds for taking such actions in advance of a formal request being received.\n\nRecognizing that recovering assets once transferred and concealed is an exceedingly costly, complex and an all-too-often unsuccessful process, this Chapter also incorporates elements intended to prevent illicit transfers and generate records that can be used where illicit transfers eventually have to be traced, frozen, seized and confiscated (Article 52). The identification of experts who can assist developing countries in this process is also included as a form of technical assistance (Article 60(5)).\n\nChapter VI of UNCAC is dedicated to technical assistance, meaning support offered to developing and transition countries in the implementation of UNCAC. The provisions cover training, material and human resources, research, and information sharing. UNCAC also calls for cooperation through international and regional organizations (many of which already have established anti-corruption programmes), research efforts, and the contribution of financial resources both directly to developing countries and countries with economies in transition, and to the UNODC.\n\nChapter VII deals with international implementation through the CoSP and the UN Secretariat.\n\nThe final provisions are similar to those found in other UN treaties. Key provisions ensure that UNCAC requirements are to be interpreted as minimum standards, which States Parties are free to exceed with measures \"more strict or severe\" than those set out in specific provisions; and the two Articles governing signature, ratification and the coming into force of the Convention.\n\nIn accordance with Article 63(7) of UNCAC, \"the Conference shall establish, if it deems necessary, any appropriate mechanism or body to assist in the effective implementation of the Convention\". At its first session, the CoSP established an open-ended intergovernmental expert group to make recommendations to the Conference on the appropriate mechanism. A voluntary \"Pilot Review Programme\", which was limited in scope, was initiated to offer adequate opportunity to test possible methods to review the implementation of UNCAC, with the overall objective to evaluate efficiency and effectiveness of the tested mechanism(s) and to provide to the CoSP information on lessons learnt and experience acquired, thus enabling the CoSP to make informed decisions on the establishment of an appropriate mechanism for reviewing the implementation of UNCAC. \nThe CoSP at its third session, held in Doha in November 2009, adopted Resolution 3/1 on the review of the implementation of the Convention, containing the terms of reference of an Implementation Review Mechanism (IRM). It established a review mechanism aimed at assisting countries to meet the objectives of UNCAC through a peer review process. The IRM is intended to further enhance the potential of the UNCAC, by providing the means for countries to assess their level of implementation through the use of a comprehensive self-assessment checklist, the identification of potential gaps and the development of action plans to strengthen the implementation of UNCAC domestically. UNODC serves as the secretariat to the review mechanism.\n\nThe Terms of Reference of the IRM specify that each review phase is composed of two review cycles of five years. The first review cycle covers chapters III (criminalization and law enforcement) and IV (international cooperation) of UNCAC. The second review cycle, which will start in 2015, covers chapters II (preventive measures) and V (asset recovery). All States parties must undergo the review within each cycle. The selection of the reviewing States parties is carried out by drawing of lots. Each State party is reviewed by two other States parties, with the active involvement of the State Party under review. At least one of the reviewing States is from the regional group of the State party under review.\n\nAn initial desk review is based on the responses of each State to the IT-based comprehensive self-assessment checklist. States parties under review are encouraged to conduct broad consultations including all relevant stakeholders when preparing their responses. Active dialogue between the country under review and the reviewers is a key component of the process. Country visits or joint meetings are held when agreed by the State party under review. A country review report is prepared and agreed to by the country under review and may be made public. The executive summary of this report is an official document of the United Nations.\nAs of 4 October 2012, 157 countries are involved in the Review Mechanism either as countries under review or as reviewing countries.\n\nThe UNCAC Coalition, established in 2006, is a network of some 310 civil society organizations (CSOs) in over 100 countries, committed to promoting the ratification, implementation and monitoring of UNCAC. It aims to mobilize broad civil society support for UNCAC and to facilitate strong civil society action at national, regional and international levels in support of UNCAC. The Coalition is open to all organizations and individuals committed to these goals. The breadth of UNCAC means that its framework is relevant for a wide range of CSOs, including groups working in the areas of human rights, labour rights, governance, economic development, environment and private sector accountability.\n\nRatification of UNCAC, while essential, is only the first step. Fully implementing its provisions presents significant challenges for the international community as well as individual States parties, particularly in relation to the innovative areas of UNCAC. For this reason, countries have often needed policy guidance and technical assistance to ensure the effective implementation of UNCAC. The results of the first years of IRM have shown that many developing countries have identified technical assistance needs. The provision of technical assistance, as foreseen in UNCAC, is crucial to ensure the full and effective incorporation of the provisions of UNCAC into domestic legal systems and, above all, into the reality of daily life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44647924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44647924", "title": "Vaktruttvottejak Sabha", "text": "Vaktruttvottejak Sabha\n\nVaktrutvottejak Sabha is an organization best known for hosting the Vasant Vyakhyanmala (the traditional annual spring lecture series) every year since 1875 in Pune, India. Justice Mahadeo Govind Ranade founded Vaktrutvottejak Sabha. Currently, Dr. Deepak Jayantrao Tilak is President of Vaktrutvottejak Sabha.\n\nThe idea behind the series was to present a variety of lectures, across various topics to the people. In the later half of 19th century newspapers were primitive and live lectures were the most effective medium for knowledge transfer. Subjects from diverse fields like cultural, social,science, health, literature, finance, law, education, youth and history are covered in the lecture series usually organized at Tilak Smarak Mandir. For many years, the Vasant Vyankhyanmala was held at Hirabag and Belbag. It has been held at its present venue – Tilak Smarak Mandir, for many decades. The Vyakhanmala is held every year in the month of April or May i.e. Spring (\"Vasant\" Rutu/Season).\n\nEminent speakers are chosen from a diverse range of fields like doctors, entrepreneurs, writers, politicians and scholars who consider contemporary issues at the intersection of social issues, culture, science, health, literature, law, education, economy from a critical perspective.\n"}
{"id": "16122960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16122960", "title": "Victory lap (academia)", "text": "Victory lap (academia)\n\nA victory lap is a term used in American and Canadian academics to describe one or more extra years of study needed beyond the traditional four years of undergraduate studies. These added years are generally the result of switching midstream to a different major or program. In certain cases such as engineering and teaching and life science degrees, the victory lap is instead attributed to increased course load and stress.\n\nOther slang terms used to represent this same idea include \"jewel degree\", \"5th year senior\", \"5th year scum\", \"super senior\", and \"Van Wilder\" (in reference to the 2002 film \"National Lampoon's Van Wilder\").\n\nThe term may also be used to refer to additional years in high school, particularly in Ontario after the elimination of Ontario Academic Credit (Grade 13). Patrick Brady and Philip Allingham of Lakehead University, has argued that the provincial government's attempt to bring Ontario in line with the rest of the continent's 12 grades system has only been partially successful. Both have noted that the fifth year in secondary schools is still a norm in Ontario, with students in Ontario still opting to take a fifth year in secondary school, colloquially known as the victory lap. In the 2007-2008 year, students over the age of 19 made up 3.7 percent of all secondary day school enrolment in Ontario.\n"}
