{"id": "21786013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21786013", "title": "2009 attack on the Sri Lanka national cricket team", "text": "2009 attack on the Sri Lanka national cricket team\n\nThe 2009 attack on the Sri Lanka national cricket team occurred on 3 March 2009, when a bus carrying Sri Lankan cricketers, part of a larger convoy, was fired upon by 12 gunmen near Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore, Pakistan. The cricketers were on their way to play the third day of the second Test against the Pakistani cricket team. Six members of the Sri Lanka national cricket team were wounded. Six Pakistani policemen and two civilians were killed.\n\nThe attack was believed to have been carried out by Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. In August 2016, three of the terrorists involved in the attack were killed during a police raid in Lahore. In October, the attack's mastermind was killed in eastern Afghanistan during a military operation, while hiding there.\n\nThe safety of touring cricket teams in Pakistan had long been an issue. In May 2002, New Zealand abandoned their Test series in Pakistan after a suicide bomb attack outside their hotel. However, they returned in the 2003/2004 season to fulfill their commitments. Australia had recently refused to tour on safety grounds. The Sri Lankan cricket team was in Pakistan as a replacement for the Indian team, who had pulled out after the Mumbai attacks. In order to persuade the Sri Lankan team to visit, the Pakistan government offered to give them presidential-style security.\nThe series was the first Test tour of Pakistan since South Africa visited in October 2007.\n\nAccording to the officials, 12 gunmen were hiding near Liberty Square, in the centre of Lahore, waiting for the Sri Lankan team to pass on their way to the Gaddafi stadium. They started firing at the bus when it crossed the road. The Pakistan police escorting the team returned fire; in the ensuing fighting, six policemen and two civilians died. After about 20 minutes, the militants fled, leaving behind rocket launchers and grenades.\n\nThe gunmen first shot at the wheels of the bus, and then fired at the bus itself and its occupants. The attackers had fired a rocket at the bus, which missed and hit a nearby electric pole. The driver of the bus, Mehar Mohammad Khalil, had then kept on driving a distance of about until they reached the stadium. Khalil was hailed as a hero for his bravery. The attackers had also thrown a grenade under the bus, which exploded after the bus had passed over it.\n\nA minivan following the team bus carrying the match referee and umpires was also fired upon and the driver was killed. Simon Taufel, Steve Davis, Nadeem Ghauri, Ahsan Raza, umpires performance manager Peter Manuel, liaison officer Abdul Sami and ICC match referee Chris Broad were in this minivan. The minivan was subsequently allegedly abandoned by security personnel and no bullets were fired by the security forces for twenty minutes. Chris Broad threw himself over and kept his hand on the chest of Ahsan Raza to slow down the profuse bleeding from a bullet injury. A police officer who climbed into the minivan to seek cover drove the minivan to safety.\n\nSecurity cameras captured footage of several gunmen carrying automatic weapons and backpacks, firing on the convoy from the Liberty Square roundabout. They were later seen jogging up the street and escaping on motorcycles. The video was broadcast around the world presenting pictures of the attacks.\nCCTV footage has been made public. They arrived at 8:39 am local time and left at 8:46 am. The attackers were armed with AK-47 assault rifles, hand grenades, RPG launchers, claymores and explosive charges.\n\nThe Sri Lankan team were then taken to the stadium and airlifted from the pitch via Pakistan Air Force Mil Mi-17 helicopters, and immediate arrangements were made for the Sri Lankan team to return to Colombo on the next available flight. The second Test, which was the last scheduled fixture of the tour, was abandoned as a draw.\n\nSeveral team members sustained minor wounds, including:\nSix Pakistani policemen and two civilians were killed in the attack.\nSamaraweera and Paranavitana were hospitalised following the incident. The others had sustained minor injuries and shrapnel wounds. Samaraweera sustained shrapnel wounds to his thigh, and Paranavitana to his chest. The team's Assistant Coach Paul Farbrace was also injured. Although it was reported that Coach Trevor Bayliss also sustained minor injuries, it was later announced that this was incorrect.\n\nReserve umpire Ahsan Raza, who was travelling in a van for the umpires that was following the Sri Lankan team bus, was shot twice and taken to hospital. The driver of the minibus was killed in the attack.\n\nImmediately following the attacks, unnamed Pakistani authorities blamed the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a militant organisation banned in both Pakistan and India. Pakistani officials said that the attacks were similar to the Mumbai attacks. Most of the Pakistani press blamed Pakistani Islamist militants and Al-Qaeda for the attacks. Police said that kidnapping was a possible motive, but police officials refused to comment on this.\n\nSri Lankan Foreign Minister Rohitha Bogollagama said on 4 March that he could not rule out involvement of the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in the Lahore attacks. Some European intelligence sources supported this suspicion. Sri Lankan military officials, on the other hand, were skeptical of LTTE involvement, and an LTTE spokesperson labelled reports of LTTE connection as 'not true'. A junior Pakistani cabinet minister said that the government had evidence that the attackers came from India, but Information Minister Sherry Rehman denied any government knowledge of Indian involvement. On 6 March 2009, government officials had ruled out the involvement of Indian intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing and LTTE and were zeroing in on Lashkar-e-Taiba. Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Rohitha Bogollagama was quoted as saying From our point of view, there is no Indian involvement. India has helped us in our counter-terrorist efforts. I don't see a need for India to target the Sri Lankan cricket team.\n\nOn the morning of the attack, the Sri Lankan and Pakistani cricket teams did not depart from the hotel together, as they had done on previous days, and the Pakistani team's schedule was delayed by 5 minutes. Statements by Australian umpire Simon Taufel, match referee Chris Broad, and spin bowler Muttiah Muralitharan, referencing this delay sparked conspiracy theories that the militants were acting on inside information. Later, Muralitharan expressed alarm at such interpretations of his comments and explained that he only suspected the gunmen to be monitoring the team movements.\n\nFederal Bureau of Investigation director Robert Mueller arrived in Pakistan the day after these attacks and met with Pakistani officials to discuss security issues and the Mumbai attacks.\n\nInterior Adviser Rehman Malik, told the National Assembly Standing Committee on the Interior that no evidence of LeT's involvement has been found so far, and that sufficient evidence has been surfaced pointing to involvement of a foreign hand.\n\nThe Investigation committee found three Superintendents of police (SPs) to have neglected the initial warning. by Intelligence agencies The Chief Minister of Punjab had also tipped off the authorities about a possible threat to the Sri Lankan team a month before.\n\nOn 5 March, Salmaan Taseer, the governor of Punjab province, said the individuals responsible for the attack had been identified, but would not be revealed until the investigation was complete. The province offered a reward of 10 million rupees ($125,000 USD) for information leading to the capture of the militants responsible for the attack.\n\nPolice in Punjab arrested over 250 suspects, including 4 who were said to be 'prime suspects'. Police called Muhammad Aqeel, who ran a sports bikes business in Islampura, the mastermind behind the attack, and said that he had received a call from one of the militants at 9:05 am on the morning of the attacks asking for instructions. Though Aqeel was still absconding, his brother, Muhammad Faisal, had been arrested. Police also arrested Shahzad Babar of Rahim Yar Khan after a Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card registered in his name was used in the attack along with eight others.\n\nSecurity officials in Pakistan told The Times that most of the two dozen people arrested in connection with the attacks belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, outlawed militant groups with close links to Al-Qaeda. Aqeel, who is an activist of Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, escaped a police raid on his home in Kahuta on 9 March 2009.\n\nAlso another gunman Zubair, aka Naik Mohammad, of Zubair, was arrested from Madina Colony, Walton Road in Lahore. He was a waiter at a hotel in Rawalpindi, when he was recruited by Sifullah. He went to Miram Shah and was trained in the use of different weapons.\n\nOther accused including Samiullah, alias Ejaz of Nankana district, Adnan, alias Sajjad, Ajmal alias Ahsaan, Farooq, Ameer of Punjab Taliban, and Umer, alias Abdul Wahab of D. I. Khan, were still at large.\n\nThe attack was planned at Tauheed Hotel, and a house rented for this purpose in Madina Colony, Walton Road. The auto rickshaws used in the attack were purchased by Samiullah.\n\nA secret investigative report has surfaced later prepared by the Additional Inspector General of the Crime Investigation Division, Punjab on 22 January 2009 outlining the potential threat to the Sri Lankan team.\n\n – The attack has been condemned by the Pakistani president, Asif Ali Zardari, and prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gillani. Governor Salmaan Taseer stated that the same people who executed the 2008 Mumbai attacks were responsible for this attack. Following the attack Pakistan's interior minister Rehman Malik declared that Pakistan is \"in a state of war\". Pakistani officials were also quick to blame one of its neighbours, India, of covert involvement, citing long standing enmity between the two South Asian countries. These claims were largely seen as an exercise in diverting attention away from the crisis.\n\nChief Minister of Punjab (Pakistan) Shahbaz Sharif, criticised the current government and said that he has already tipped authorities of a possible attack.\n\n\"DAWN (newspaper)\" condemned the attack and cited security loopholes.\n\nThe \"Daily Times\", blamed Al Qaeda and Lashkar-e Jhangvi in an editorial, stating, \"International cricket is no longer possible in Pakistan; therefore we should stop accusing foreign teams of discriminating against Pakistan vis-à-vis India. The question here is of the survival of Pakistan, not of cricket.\" The \"Daily Jang\", responding on Chris Broad, Simon Taufel and Steve Davis's comments, said that their \"vivid description of the terrifying attack gives us an insight into how people everywhere will see the events of the morning of March 3.\" It went on to say the \"men appeared genuinely shocked over the sight of Pakistani security men running for cover\". The paper goes on to say that \"their candid comments will seal the fate of Pakistan cricket for some time to come\". It also said that Pakistan \"must give up complaining\" and that \"ways to liven up the game at the domestic level need to be reconsidered with renewed urgency\".\n\n – Secretary General Ban Ki Moon strongly condemned the attacks according to UN spokesman Marie Okabe. She also added that \"Any attack targeting civilians, in this case athletes, is despicable and unjustifiable, and we urge authorities in Pakistan to do all in their power to find the culprits and bring them to justice.\"\n\nThe International Cricket Council – Chief Executive Haroon Lorgat said:\n\nWe note with dismay and regret the events of this morning in Lahore and we condemn this attack without reservation. It is a source of great sadness that there have been a number of fatalities in this attack and it is also very upsetting for the wider cricket family that some of the Sri Lanka players and one match official have been injured in this attack. At this time our thoughts and prayers are with the injured people and also the families of those who have died.\n\nThe West Indies Cricket Board made a statement through president Julian Hunte and said \"It was a sad day for International Cricket\", and gave their full sympathy to the Sri Lankan players and the umpires.\n\nIndian and New Zealand players wore black armbands while playing their next One Day International as a show of solidarity towards the Sri Lankan players injured in the attack, as did Australia and South Africa while playing their next test.\n\n – Prime Minister Kevin Rudd also condemned the attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team, calling it \"shameful and cowardly\". He demanded answers from Pakistan after claims that police left Australians travelling with Sri Lanka's cricket team in the lurch as the bus was attacked. \"I am sufficiently concerned about what has been said by the Australians that we need an explanation and we intend to get one.\" Foreign Minister Stephen Smith said the attack demonstrates that there is a persistent threat to Pakistan's very existence and showed the need for a tougher war against extremists.\n\nPolitician and ex-Pakistan cricket captain Imran Khan criticised the security arrangements and said that the security provided was 10 times less than what is provided to government officials such as Rehman Malik.\n\nMatch referee Chris Broad was also critical of the security provided. He stated that he and his colleagues were left like 'sitting ducks' in the trailing minivan during the attack. He also accused the security personnel of fleeing the scene. He questioned why the Pakistan team which usually travelled with the Sri Lankan team was delayed by seven minutes that day and avoided being attacked. Javed Miandad was critical of Broad's comments and demanded that International Cricket Council ban him for life. Pakistan Cricket Board lodged a formal complaint against Chris Broad with the International Cricket Council on 9 March 2009. Ijaz Butt, the head of Pakistan Cricket Board accused Broad of lying. Umpire Simon Taufel also said that the umpire's minibus was abandoned while the players' bus was moved to the ground to evacuate the players. Criticising the security entourage for abandoning them and inability of the police to arrest the attackers Simon said, \"You tell me why no one was caught. You tell me why. Supposedly 25 armed commandos were in our convoy, and when the team bus got going again, we were left on our own.\" Co-umpire Steve Davis said \"he felt let down\" by the security. International Cricket Council umpires performance manager for East Asia, Sri Lanka and Pakistan, Peter Manuel told \"Dawn\" that the minivan carrying the umpires was basically abandoned by the security personnel: \"It was unbelievable. Bullets were raining on us and not a shot was fired in our defense by the Pakistan security officials.\" Sri Lanka coach Trevor Bayliss backed the comments made by Simon Taufel, Chris Broad and Steve Davis criticising the security. Intikhab Alab, Pakistan cricket team's coach, asked Chris Broad to apologise to his country and team due to the remarks he made against Pakistani police security. English cricketer Dominic Cork who was commentating in Pakistan on the series and who himself was caught in the attack later criticised the security and Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Ijaz Butt.\n\nSri Lankan bowler Muttiah Muralitharan said the security arrangement was the worst he had ever seen, and vastly inferior to that provided in Sri Lanka. He said \"The security people we had didn't even seem to fight back. Were they professionals with enough training? They didn't seem to know what to do. I was surprised the terrorists were able to just reload the magazines and keep firing, and they never got caught. It was shameful. If this had happened in Colombo they would never have got away.\"\n\nEye witness Habib Akram, bureau chief of SAMAA TV news channel, said that the gunmen were very calm as they moved and fired by turns and that there was hardly any fire returned by the police. His office overlooks the traffic circle where the incident took place. Closed-circuit television footage of the event reported by Geo TV showed four of the attackers walking or jogging away unchallenged from the site, into a marketplace while no policemen are seen.\n\nFormer president and former army chief Pervez Musharraf criticised the police commandos inability to kill any of the gunmen, saying \"If this was the elite force I would expect them to have shot down those people who attacked them, the reaction, their training should be on a level that if anyone shoots toward the company they are guarding, in less than three seconds they should shoot the man down.\" Governor of Punjab province where the attack took place in Pakistan, gave medals and awards to honour valour and bravery of police officials for fighting the terrorists during the attack.\n\nInsurance costs for cricket matches in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka rose.\n\nThe New Zealand team cancelled its December 2009 tour of Pakistan. Bangladesh also put off a scheduled tour by Pakistan to Bangladesh.\n\nThe Union Home Minister of India, P. Chidambaram, said that the Indian Premier League should consider postponing the forthcoming T20 league matches due to be held over 45 days from 10 April to 24 May 2009 in 9 Indian cities, since in the light of these attacks, security forces would be stretched too thin between the league matches and the five phases of the forthcoming general elections in India. The elections were slated to be held between 16 April and 13 May and it was impossible to reschedule them while IPL organizers appeared to be unwilling to postpone the tournament. Former England coach Duncan Fletcher said that English players contracted to the IPL would now be more concerned for their safety. The 2009 Indian Premier League was hosted by South Africa between 18 April and 24 May 2009. Former Indian captain Sourav Ganguly said after these attacks Pakistan not a safe venue to play cricket.\n\nThe 2011 Cricket World Cup was to be co-hosted by Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, but in the wake of this attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team the International Cricket Council (ICC) stripped Pakistan of its hosting rights due to security concerns. The headquarters of the organising committee were originally situated in Lahore, but was then shifted to Mumbai. Pakistan was supposed to hold 14 matches, including one semi-final. Eight of Pakistan's matches were awarded to India, four to Sri Lanka and two to Bangladesh.\n\nThe Sri Lankan Foreign minister has said the Sri Lankan cricket team \"will give highest consideration to the invitation extended to it to undertake visit again. Sri Lanka will not allow Pakistan's isolation in cricket.\" In October 2017, the Sri Lankan cricket team returned to Pakistan for the first time since the attack to play a Twenty20 International match at the Gaddafi Stadium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37083038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37083038", "title": "2012 Boca del Río murder of journalists", "text": "2012 Boca del Río murder of journalists\n\nThe 2012 Veracruz murder of journalists is about the disappearance, murder and dismemberment of three journalists and a woman who worked in public relations whose bodies were discovered in Boca del Río, Veracruz, Mexico. Their bodies were recovered from a canal on World Press Freedom Day, or 3 May 2012, and showed signs of torture and mutilation, which prompted calls for investigations into links with organized crime. The gruesome murder followed other murders of members of the press in the Veracruz area and during the Mexican Drug War, and highlighted the danger for working journalists.\n\nEl Programa de Agravios a Periodistas y Defensores Civiles reported 580 incidents affecting the media from 2005 to May 2012, including 79 homicides, 14 missing journalists, and 26 recorded threats. The number of reported incidents in Mexico has steadily increased over past years, reaching number eight in the Committee to Protect Journalists'(CPJ) impunity index. Veracruz is well known for the Sinaloa and Zetas drug cartels. These two cartels fight for control of Boca del Río, Veracruz, making it one of the most dangerous Mexican states for the press. In a year and a half, six journalists were reported dead from this area. The murders of Luna, Huge, Rodríguez, and Becerra brought the total to ten reported deaths.\n\nOn World Press Freedom Day, the bodies of Guillermo Luna Varela, Gabriel Huge Córdova, and Esteban Rodríguez, three photojournalists, were recovered from La Zamorana canal in Boca del Río. After not returning from covering a road incident, the families of Guillermo Luna and Gabriel Huge reported them missing. Police found the dismembered bodies of Luna and Huge in a black plastic bag. They also recovered the bodies of Rodríguez and Irasema Becerra. Becerra and Luna were in a relationship, and she worked for a local newspaper firm.\n\nLuna was a photographer who worked for \"Notiver\" and covered police-related stories. Six months prior to his death, he worked for the website \"Veracruznews\", Voz del Sureste, and El Díario de Cardel. His police beat was in Xalapa and Boca del Río in Veracruz. His body was found in Boca del Río alongside his uncle, Huge, and also showed signs of torture. Luna was reported missing a day earlier by his family after not returning from covering a road accident.\n\nHuge's body displayed signs of torture and was found in a black bag with Luna, his nephew. He worked at \"Notiver\" as a photographer and he also worked for a radio station in Poza Rica. After three journalists of \"The Notiver\" were murdered the previous year, Huge fled from the city. When he returned, he worked as a freelancer. He disappeared on a Wednesday with Luna while covering a traffic incident.\n\nRodríguez was a retired photojournalist and reporter who worked for the \"Diario AZ\". He became a welder after his retirement. After the murder of fellow journalists at \"The Notiver\", Rodríguez temporarily fled the state and retired, returning to Veracruz to work as a welder.\n\nA fourth body was later identified as Becerra, Luna's companion. While she was not a journalist, she worked for a local paper in public relations.\n\nOn Monday, 13 August, the Mexican Navy began to crack the case. \"The Mexican Navy announced Monday that a man suspected of being a member of a drug gang had been captured while carrying the identification cards of a recently slain newspaper employee in the state of Veracruz. The authorities link the suspect, Juan Carlos Hernández Pulido, whom they captured Friday, to the killing of the newspaper employee, Irasema Becerra. Her dismembered remains were found in May along with those of three photojournalists.\"\n\nAuthorities searched the vehicle of Hernández, also known as \"Bertha\", when a suspicious individual was reported in a parking lot. In his vehicle, they found more than 150 bags of cocaine and marijuana, which he sold alongside illegal firearms. They also found documents and an ID belonging to Becerra, linking him to the Boca Del Rio homicide. He is accused of working for the Jalisco drug cartel as a hired murderer. Hernández was not working alone.\n\nVeracruz authorities closed the case 15 August and claimed members of a drug gang confessed to the murders. Some uncertainty about the finality of the case was presented. \"But as soon as the arrests were announced on Wednesday, questions began to surface, beginning with the most obvious one. Why would the seven suspects, picked up on drug and weapons charges, spontaneously admit to far more serious crimes, in this case four brutal killings?\" Nine journalists in the last 18 months have focused attention on the investigations in Veracruz.\n\nFurther investigation, along with coincidence, linked several other cases of homicide among journalists and their families. These linked cases are not linked to the Veracruz murder by perpetrator, but by similarities in the brutality of the homicides. The following are related homicide cases:\n\n\nThe murders of Luna, Huge, Rodríguez and Becerra heightened awareness of the dangers for journalists in the Veracruz area. Officials and organizations recognize the need to combat the violence of growing drug cartels. Efforts are made to further increase awareness, especially with outrage from UNESCO, Article 19, and other groups focused on the rights and safety of journalists.\n\nIrina Bokova, director-general of UNESCO, expressed her concerned about the deaths of journalists in the Veracruz area. \"News of the murders of Gabriel Huge and Guillermo Luna Varela – tortured and killed less than one week after the assassination of Regina Martínez Pérez – is deeply disturbing, and reflects an alarming state of affairs in the state of Veracruz,\" she said.\n\nThe bodies of the Boca Del Rio journalists were found nearing World Press Freedom Day. Bokova said, “That these gruesome crimes have been committed on the eve of World Press Freedom Day – a day on which we honour the vital role played by journalists in upholding democratic values, protecting citizens’ rights to be informed and calling those in power to account – makes the situation all the more intolerable.\"\n\nBokova continued in the statement to say, “I condemn these three murders in the strongest possible terms and urge the Mexican authorities to act quickly and decisively to find those responsible. Impunity is not an option.\"\n\nArticle 19, a group focused on the freedom of expression and information, expressed their outrage of the Boca del Rio incident, \"--the Mexican authorities have consistently failed to fulfill their international obligations to guarantee the free exercise of freedom of expression and the mechanisms currently in place do not address the central problem, which is the impunity that follows these crimes.\" They also said the authorities of Veracruz did not take the necessary steps in resolving the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "41853255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41853255", "title": "Adrian, Count of Orléans", "text": "Adrian, Count of Orléans\n\nAdrian of Orléans (c. 755-d. before November 821) was a Frankish count. His sister Hildegard of Vinzgouw married Charlemagne; therefore, he was the emperor's brother-in-law and uncle to the next emperor, Louis the Pious.\n\nHe was the son of Gerold of Vinzgau and Emma of Alemannia.\n\nHe married Waldrada, who may have been a daughter of Wilhelmid Adalhelm of Autun, and had issue:\n\n"}
{"id": "42275645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42275645", "title": "Agonal heart rhythm", "text": "Agonal heart rhythm\n\nIn medicine, an agonal heart rhythm is a variant of asystole. Agonal heart rhythm is usually ventricular in origin. Occasional P waves and QRS complexes can be seen on the electrocardiogram. The complexes tend to be wide and bizarre in morphological appearance. Clinically, an agonal rhythm is regarded as asystole and should be treated equivalently, with cardiopulmonary resuscitation and administration of intravenous adrenaline. As in asystole, the prognosis for a patient presenting with this rhythm is very poor. Sometimes this appears after asystole or after a failed resurrection attempt.\n\n"}
{"id": "23232264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23232264", "title": "Assassination of Haim Arlosoroff", "text": "Assassination of Haim Arlosoroff\n\nHaim Arlosoroff was assassinated on the night of Friday, June 16, 1933, as the left-wing Zionist leader was walking with his wife on the beach in Tel Aviv. Initially believed to be carried out by his right-wing political enemies, the subsequent court case ended in acquittal for the two accused of the crime. A third man was acquitted early on of advising the two to commit the act. The case has never been definitively solved.\n\nAt the time of the murder, the two primary opposing Zionist political parties in Palestine were the mainstream Mapai, the left-wing Socialist party, and the opposing Revisionists, the right-wing nationalist party. The rift between the two sects evolved with the end of World War I and the ensuing British colonization of Palestine. Globally represented by the World Zionist Organization and by the Jewish Yishuv within domestic Palestine, Mapai, led by David Ben-Gurion, encouraged mass Jewish immigration and continuous settling of the land. Its leadership found it essential to cooperate with the ruling British Mandate of Palestine. Adhering to a code of practical Zionism, the official position of the Zionist leadership found it vital to develop the physical land in order to stake a claim over it. The Revisionists, led by Vladimir (Ze’ev) Jabotinsky, relied on the principles of political Zionism. They saw it imperative to gain total control over the country before devoting power toward its material improvement. It promoted procurement of independence from the British Mandate as the sole means for reestablishing a Jewish homeland.\n\nCharging Mapai leaders with prejudices against non-adherents, the dissonance between the two groups sounded louder and more pronounced. The rift reached a climax when Mapai showed interest in negotiations with the Nazi government over German Jews' expedited immigration to Palestine. These negotiations were spearheaded by Arlosoroff, and he was in Germany regarding this matter the week before his murder. The Revisionists, especially its secret radical branch, Brit Habiryonim, expressed extreme criticism in Mapai's willingness to confer with the Nazi government over German Jews' expedited emigration to Palestine.\n\nZionist ideologue and activist. Born in 1899 in Romny, Ukraine, he felt a deep Jewish identification at an early age, despite his family's assimilated views. A Socialist Zionist, he was a leader in the German branch of Hapoel Hatzair, and edited its print periodical. In 1924, he moved to Palestine; two years later, he was a Jewish Palestinian representative at the League of Nations conference. In 1930, he helped merge his own Hapoel Hatzair party with the Poale Zion party, thus forming a new Labor party called Mapai. At the time of his murder, he was the head of the political department of the Jewish Agency in Palestine. Throughout his lifetime, he wrote several treatises and essays on the topics of socialist Zionism and Jewish presence in Palestine.\n\nSuspect number 1, he was believed to have shined a flashlight into the eyes of Arlosoroff seconds before suspect number 2 fatally shot him. Born in Brisk, Poland in 1906, in 1927 he joined Beitar, the youth branch of the political Zionist Revisionist movement. In the fall of 1932, he heard Abba Ahimeir, one of the leaders of the violent faction Brit Habiryonim, speak in Warsaw. When he moved to Palestine in March 1933, Ahimeir took him under his wing.\n\nSuspect number 2, he was believed to have fatally shot Arlosoroff. Born in Chernivtsi, Bukovina in 1911, he was the local Beitar officer. When he moved to Palestine in the 1920s, he became a member of the secretariat of the Kfar Saba branch of Beitar.\n\nSuspected with aiding and abetting the murder. Born in 1897 in White Russia, he emigrated to Palestine in 1912. He was first a member of HaPoel Hatzair, Arlosoroff's own Labor Zionist movement. He later became disillusioned, and in 1928 co-formed the rival Fascia-nationalist Revisionist faction with Uri Zvi Greenberg and Dr. Yehoshua Heschel Yaivin. He was the editor-in-chief of the party's newspaper, Hazit HaAm. In 1932, he co-founded Brit Habiryonim, a secret Revisionist branch devoted to taking more violent methods against the British.\n\nWife of Arlosoroff. Was walking on the beach with him when he was killed. She was the only witness to his murder, and it was on her testimony that the case was built.\n\nAn Arab mechanic from Jaffa. In January 1934, while incarcerated in the Jerusalem Municipal jail on a murder charge, he admitted to the killing of Arlosoroff, with an accomplice. He later confessed that his first admission was a ruse, and that Stavsky and Rosenblatt had offered him money for assuming responsibility.\n\nOn June 14, 1933, two days before his murder, Arlosoroff returned home from a weeks-long work-related trip to Europe. The most important part was his meeting with Nazi officials in an effort to negotiate details of German Jews' property transfer to Palestine. While viewed by Mapai as a valuable measure to insure the assets of these Jews, this negotiation was hotly contested by the Revisionists, who believed that under no circumstances should deals be made with the Nazis.\n\nOn the morning of the day of his murder, June 16, Arlosoroff was in Jerusalem on business. He spent the morning at the offices of the Jewish Agency. Sima was meant to meet him there in the early afternoon, upon which they would return home to Tel Aviv. Sima was supposed to make plans as to their weekend activity; the couple wanted to get away from the city for a few days. When she arrived at the Agency, Arlosoroff told her that he would return home by himself later in the afternoon.\n\nWhen Arlosoroff came home at 5:15 pm, the couple decided to stay in Tel Aviv for that night. At 8:30 pm they ate dinner at the beachfront Kaete Dan hotel. At 9:30 pm they finished dinner and went for a walk on the beach.\n\nThey walked North, towards the Yarkon River. According to Sima, at a certain point she felt that they were being followed by two men. Arlosoroff brushed off her worry, and they continued walking. When they got to the end of the shoreline, they turned back. They saw the two men whom Sima had been afraid of earlier, and let them pass by in front of them. Sima was closer to the sea; Arlosoroff was closer to the city.\n\nAt 10 pm, the couple approached the two men. The bigger of the two suddenly shone a flashlight in Arlosoroff's face, and asked him for the time. Arlosoroff responded that they had no right to bother them; the man asked again. In the meantime, the smaller man made what was later described by Sima as an \"Oriental gesture\" and took out a gun. The larger man turned off his flashlight. The smaller man aimed the gun at Arlosoroff, and fired. He fell to the ground. The two men ran from the scene as Sima called for help.\n\nThree bystanders who heard her cries rushed Arlosoroff to the hospital. After drifting in and out of consciousness for three hours, he died at 12:45 am on Saturday morning, June 17.\n\nThe official suspect police blotter appeared in newspapers around the country on Saturday afternoon. It was based on Sima's eyewitness account:\n\nThe one who held the flashlight: \"Suspect Number 1:\" Male, taller than average, large build, age 30–40, clean-shaven, full face, light-skinned, tough expression, brownish-reddish hair, stands with legs apart, has a duck-like walk. Wearing a dark suit in a European style – black or dark blue – and the stitching may be in a 'double-breasted' style. Collar or long tie. Wearing shoes, speaks without accent.\n\nThe one who shot the gun: \"Suspect Number 2:\" Male, short, thin, fit body, age 30, dark Oriental type, long nose, unshaven, tough expression, dark hair, wearing a dark suit in a European style with irregular stripes. We think that he is wearing a gray hat and shoes. He makes Oriental movements with his hands.\n\nThe police offered 500 liras, and the Jewish Agency offered 1000, to anyone with information on the suspects.\n\nAs Suspect Number 1: He was arrested in the early morning of Monday, June 19 at his home in Tel Aviv. He denied all charges, claiming that he was in Jerusalem at the night of the murder.\n\nHe was suspected by Yitzchak Halutz, a clerk in the Immigration Department in Jerusalem. The week before, Stavsky had applied for an exit visa to return to Poland and recruit more people for the Revisionist party. His petition was denied. On the morning of June 16, he went to the immigration offices in Jerusalem, and spoke with Halutz to ask for his application fee back. The next day, June 17, Halutz saw the police blotter with the description of the two men. Number 1 reminded him of Stavsky, and he immediately contacted the police. He gave them Stavsky's photo which was attached to the exit visa petition. A warrant was put out for Stavsky's arrest.\n\nAs Suspect Number 2: He was arrested 37 days after the murder, on July 23, at the Beitar camp in Kfar Saba. He denied all charges, claiming that he was at a party meeting in Kfar Saba the night of the murder.\n\nHe was suspected by Rivka Feigin, a member of the Rosenblatt's Beitar group. She told Mapai authorities that she had heard an editor at Hazit Ha'am say with certainty that Number 2 was Rosenblatt. The Mapai leadership went to the police.\n\nAs aiding and abetting the murder suspects: He was arrested during the week following the assassination. He was linked to the murder primarily because of his association with Brit Habiryonim. He was eventually acquitted because there was not enough evidence to take him with which to try him.\n\nImmediately after the murder, Mapai created its own inquiry committee, to help the police in the official investigation. The three primary suspected groups were the Revisionists, the Communists and Arabs. However, many within Mapai – including Ben-Gurion – believed that members of the Revisionists had committed the crime.\n\nAt first, the Revisionists fully denied any involvement. When Stavsky was arrested, instead of defending him, they actually believed his guilt. They tried to distance Stavsky's relationship to them, claiming that he was a Communist at heart, and had committed the murder of his own accord. Their official position changed when Jabotinsky defended Stavsky in a party newspaper on July 22. He further denounced Mapai as creating a blood libel against the Revisionists. He said that the party was using the murder as a political stepping stool. Some Revisionists later said that Mapai committed the murder itself, in order to blame the opposition.\n\nIn January 1934, an Arab prisoner from Jaffa, who was being held in the Jerusalem jail for a revenge murder, confessed to the Arlosoroff murder. He claimed that he was Number 1 and that a man named Issa Ibn Darwish was Number 2. He explained that on the night of the murder, he and Issa had gone for a walk on the beach. He had no intention of killing anyone; he did not even know who Arlosoroff was. The third time they passed by the couple Abdul Majud approached Arlosoroff and asked him for the time. When Arlosoroff responded that it was too dark for him to tell, Abdul Majud replied that he had a flashlight, and turned it on. He saw that Arlosoroff was suddenly looking straight ahead; when he turned around, he saw Issa aiming a gun at Arlosoroff. Issa shot Arlosoroff and ran away. Abdul Majud was surprised, and not knowing what to do, ran after him. He asked Issa why he shot the man; he replied that he wanted to scare him so that he would leave and Issa would be able to assault his wife. At the last second, he grew afraid, and shot Arlosoroff.\n\nIssa denied all involvement.\n\nSoon after his confession, Sima came to another suspect line-up. She did not recognize either Abdul Majud or Issa.\n\nIn February 1934, Abdul Majud recanted his original confession, saying that he had met Stavsky and Rosenblatt in the Jaffa prison before he was transferred to Jerusalem. They had bribed him to take responsibility for the murder, saying that because he had confessed to the first murder, he could confess to another, and would receive the same punishment. With the help of a Hebrew-speaking Arab prisoner, they taught Abdul Majud exactly what happened and what he should tell the police.\n\nThis twist in the trial was inconsequential. Abdul Majud never testified in court. The prosecution used the story as another piece of evidence against Stavsky and Rosenblatt, especially in that Sima only recognized them. The defense dismissed it as a way for Abdul Majud to seek a personal revenge on Issa.\n\nThe Arlosoroff murder trial began in May 1934, and ended a week before the first anniversary of his assassination.\n\nMostly dependent on Sima's eyewitness testimony.\n\nPhoto Identification: the day that the police got Stavsky's photo from Halutz, the police brought it and a number of other photographs to Sima for identification. She identified Stavsky as Number 1.\n\nSuspect Line-up: Sima walked with a police officer down a line of suspects the day that Stavsky was arrested. She stopped when she reached Stavsky. She physically identified him as Number 1.\n\nStavsky claimed that he was at the Sharon Restaurant in Jerusalem at 10 pm, the time of the murder. This was not proven. Witnesses testified that he was in Jerusalem before and after, but no one said that he was there at the exact window of time. The reliability of the witnesses was under question. Two policemen who were in the restaurant between 7:30–8:30 testified that they did not see Stavsky. Also, Stavsky's landlords testified for the prosecution that he was home in Tel Aviv in the early evening.\n\nStavsky also said that he slept in a Jerusalem hotel that night. Just because Stavsky slept in Jerusalem that Friday night does not mean that he could not have been in Tel Aviv earlier. There was no testimony as to when he arrived at the Jerusalem hotel and went to bed.\n\nAlso, Stavsky had planned to leave the country the following week – this fit in with his need to escape after his crime.\n\nSima didn't recognize Rosenblatt from a photograph, but she did recognize him in a line-up, a more reliable identification.\n\nJacket Identification: Sima was given nine jackets to identify, one of which belonged to Rosenblatt. She picked out Rosenblatt's jacket as the one worn by Number 2, explaining that she recognized it from its zig-zag pattern and red color.\n\nRosenblatt originally said that he was at a party. He later recanted and said he was at a Beitar meeting in Kfar Saba. Witnesses who were at the meeting were called and their stories did not always match. Also, the minutes of the meeting were presented, but it just so happened that night that a temporary secretary was taking notes, in a different fashion than what was normally done. Their authenticity was called into question.\n\nRosenblatt's girlfriend was in their tent when he came in that night. Only she would have known his exact whereabouts then, but she was not called to give testimony.\n\nThe defense insisted there was no premeditated motive for the crime, political or otherwise. The political parties act within the social confines of the Palestinian Jewish community and their functions do not warrant a murder, it said.\n\nThe defense attorneys said Arlosoroff had been in Europe until June 14, and his return was unexpected. If his own wife did not know when he would be returning, his political opponents certainly did not. Even if they began to plot after he returned, they had no way of knowing that he would be on the beach on Friday night. Until Friday afternoon, the Arlosoroffs themselves had assumed that they wouldn't be in Tel Aviv for the weekend. There is no way that a pre-meditated murder could be planned out in five hours, taking into consideration that Stavsky was in Jerusalem and Rosenblatt was in Kfar Saba all day Friday.\n\nRather, the defense contended that the crime was actually an 'impromptu sexual attack' by two other men. The men did not cover their faces and the shooter did not shoot right away. The murder was not his goal. The goal was to sexually attack Sima. They walked by the couple a few times, trying to draw attention to themselves. At one point, Number 1 urinated into the sea – 'display of exhibitionism'. In fact, Number 2's 'Oriental gesture' before he fired the gun was a sexual one.\n\nPhoto Identification: the police procedure was irregular. It was done after a warrant was put out for Stavsky's arrest, but before he was apprehended. Stavsky's profile looked distinct from the rest of the nine, in both his physical appearance and his clothing, thereby drawing more attention to him.\n\nSuspect Line-up: it was done a day after Sima had identified Stavsky in the photo – his image was still in her memory. According to a police officer on duty, his arm was around her back – he could have unconsciously stopped her when they reached Stavsky. Also, as opposed to the rest of the men in the line-up, Stavsky was unshaven, hatless and hefty, thus making him stand out more.\n\nFour people testified that they saw Stavsky in the Sharon Restaurant in Jerusalem that night, and that he was still there by 8:45 pm. This would not have given him enough time to get to Tel Aviv by the time of the murder. The Arlosoroffs only decided to go to the beach at 9:30 – there is no way that Stavsky could have known that in time to commit the crime.\n\nJacket Identification: The zig-zag pattern is a common design. Even more so, there is no way that Sima would have been able to see the color red at that time of night. Therefore, the color is inconsequential.\n\nIt is highly improbable that the minutes were counterfeited just for the defense of the accused. The point is that Rosenblatt was at the meeting for its entirety (until 10 pm), as can be shown by both the witnesses and the fact that his words were recorded twice in the minutes. There would have been no way for him to get to Tel Aviv to commit the murder by then. Also, the minutes were taken by a temporary secretary because the permanent secretary was religious and didn't write from Friday night until Saturday night.\n\nThe presiding judges declared the following majority ruling:\n\n\"The Court, by majority, finds that at Tel Aviv, on the night of the June 16/17, 1933, with premeditated intent to kill, the accused Abraham Stavsky, did take part in the premeditated killing of Dr. Haim Arlosoroff by following him, waiting for him, stopping him and directing the light of an electric torch upon him and being close by during the commission of the offense.\" Stavsky was sentenced to punishment by death.\n\n\"As regards the accused, Zvi Rosenblatt, the Court does not find the other material evidence required by Section 5 of the Law of Evidence Amendment Ordinance, 1924, to corroborate his identification by Mrs. Arlosoroff. The accused, Zvi Rosenblatt, is therefore acquitted of the offense of which he stands charged.\"\n\nThe single dissenting judge ruled the following:\n\n\"That the crime was committed at such time and such a place when and where persons are known to and in fact do resort for immoral purposes...That the alibi of the accused is insufficiently established...The crime was not a political one but was most probably a common attack for sexual purposes...That none of the accused had any connection with the murder...I therefore find them not guilty of the charge and acquit them.\"\n\nStavsky was acquitted at the Court of Criminal Appeal because there not enough material evidence, as required by law. \"The Appeal Court even went so far as to state that had the case been heard in England itself, or in most of the territories of the British Empire, the conviction would rightly have been upheld.\"\n\nThe perpetrators were never convicted.\n\nIn 1982, Israeli historian Shabtai Teveth re-introduced the event to the Israeli population with an investigative account of the murder and the trial proceedings. In response to the newly piqued public interest, the government, under the leadership of then-Prime Minister Menachem Begin, himself a member of the right-wing party, commissioned a state-administered investigative committee. In 1985, the Bechor Committee published its results: fifty years after the murder, it had found no new evidence, and maintained the accepted ruling that Stavsky and Rosenblatt were not guilty.\n\nThe trial proceedings of the murder of Arlosoroff highlighted the external and internal dynamics between the ruling British Mandate, the dominant Mapai party, and the opposing Revisionist party. This event was an important climax point in the internal relations of the Jews in Palestine, and its resonance continued even after the State of Israel was established in 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "38406308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38406308", "title": "Atlas (1811 ship)", "text": "Atlas (1811 ship)\n\nAtlas was a 501-ton sailing ship that was built at Whitby and launched in 1811. In 1814 she successfully defended herself in a single-ship action with an American privateer. In 1816 she transported convicts to New South Wales, and afterwards disappeared off the coast of India in 1817.\n\n\"Atlas\" entered \"Lloyd's Register\" in 1812 with W. Parker, master, changing to Fairclough, T. Barrick, owner, and trade London transport.\n\nOn 9 January 1813 \"Atlas\" was at Lisbon when she lost an anchor in a gale. A number of other transports were either lost or seriously damaged in the same gale. The number of transports involved suggests that they were their in connection with the Peninsular War.\n\nThe transport \"Atlas\", Fairclough, master, arrived at Cork on 19 August 1814. She had on 17 August repelled an attack by the American privateer \"York\", of 14 guns and 150 men. \"Atlas\" had only 10 guns and 27 men and boys on board, including three passengers.\n\nConvict voyage (1816): Under the command of Walter Meriton, she sailed from Portsmouth, England on 23 January 1816, and arrived at Port Jackson on 22 July. She embarked 194 male convicts, seven of whom died on the voyage. A detachment of 34 men of the 89th Regiment of Foot provided the guard. \n\n\"Atlas\" left Port Jackson on 12 September bound for Batavia.\n\nOn 29 July 1817, \"Atlas\" dropped the pilot at Sandheads, at the mouth of the River Ganges, as she sailed from Calcutta to London. She was not heard from again.\n\n\"Lloyd's Register\" continued to carry \"Atlas\", with Meriton, master, and trade London—Botany Bay, to the 1821 volume. The \"Register of Shipping\" carried the same information to the 1822 volume.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "34214923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34214923", "title": "Ben Breedlove", "text": "Ben Breedlove\n\nBenjamin Daniel Breedlove (August 8, 1993 – December 25, 2011) was an American Internet personality from Austin, Texas, known for his vlogs on YouTube. On the night of December 25, 2011, he died of cardiac arrest at the age of 18.\n\nBen Breedlove grew up in Austin, Texas, where he was a senior at Westlake High School. Ben lived with his parents along with his older sister Ally and younger brother Jake. In 2010, he began making video blogs on YouTube, in which he dealt out relationship advice to his peers.\n\nBreedlove created the \"OurAdvice4You\" channel on YouTube in November 2010 with friends, Justin Miller and Megan Parken. On May 23, 2011, he launched his second channel, \"BreedloveTV\", where he would answer questions about dating, relationships and advice.\n\nAt an early age, Breedlove had been diagnosed with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM).\n\nOn December 18, 2011, Breedlove released a two-part video on YouTube, titled \"This is my story.\" Breedlove opens up about his heart condition as well as the impact it had on his life, using note cards. He also mentioned three near-death experiences.\nOn May 5, 2009, Breedlove underwent surgery to insert a pacemaker. The pacemaker helped regulate his heart rhythm. In the video he shows a red scar on his chest, where the pacemaker had been inserted.\n\nBreedlove died due to cardiac arrest on the evening of Christmas, 2011.\n\nNews of his death made world coverage on December 27 three days after his death, his story first appearing on Australia's \"Ninemsn\" before coverage spread out through the world on other major media outlets, including the \"Los Angeles Times\", ABC, CBS News, MSNBC, Fox News, MTV, \"The Independent\", \"Herald Sun\", \"Washington Post\", \"People Magazine\", and \"The Wall Street Journal\".\n\nOn December 29, Breedlove's funeral was held at the Gateway Church, in Austin, Texas. More than 1,400 people attended the service, and another 11,000 watched online. He was interred at Austin Memorial Park Cemetery in Austin, Travis County, Texas, USA. \n\nOn January 5, 2012, the HCMA announced that they mourn the death of Breedlove and are encouraging their members to \"tell their stories the same way as Ben.\" Lisa Salberg, founder and CEO of HCMA, along with New Jersey Congressman Frank Pallone Jr. had worked together in drafting the Cardiomyopathy Health Education, Awareness, Risk Assessment, and Training in the Schools (HEARTs) act. The Bill was introduced in January 2012 to Congress.\n\nThe Westlake High School Student Council and Friday Night Fan Stand collected donations for the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Association during the Ben Breedlove Memorial Football Game which took place at the Westlake football stadium on September 21, 2012. Fans wore white as a show of support and a moment of silence was observed. Funds collected were used for educational efforts relating to the disease that claimed Breedlove's life.\n\nOn December 27, 2011, the Ben Breedlove Memorial Fund was created at Africa New Life Ministries.\n\nOn January 1, 2013, Ben Breedlove was honored in a florograph on the Donate Life float, titled \"Journeys of the Heart\". Family members and friends contributed to the florograph which was then placed on the float.\n\nOn October 29, 2013, the book, \"When Will The Heaven Begin?\" was released by Penguin Publishers. The book was listed on the New York Times Best Seller List beginning the first week of the release date. The memoir of Ben's life is written by his sister Ally Breedlove with Ken Abraham. The title of the book is taken from the lyric of the song \"Mr. Rager\", written and performed by Kid Cudi. Ben stated that during his second cardiac arrest, he had a vision of being in a peaceful, white room, in which his favorite rapper Kid Cudi, appeared alongside him as the lyrics to the song \"Mr. Rager\", began playing.\n\nOn December 1, 2013, CNN aired an Anderson Cooper special highlighting the near-death stories of Dr. Mary Neal, Anita Moorjani and Benjamin Breedlove.\n\nBreedlove's life story has been chronicled in several other publications, including \"Imagine Heaven: Near Death Experiences, God's Promises and the Exhilarating Future that Awaits You\" by John Burke, \"Soul Models: Transformative Stories of Courage and Compassion That Will Change Your Life\" by Elizabeth Bryan and Angela Daffron and \"Echoes of a Life Well Lived\" by Richard M. O'Bryan.\n\nBreedlove's story has been honored in several musical pieces, including Kid Cudi's dedication of his album, \"INDICUD\". The Chicago group, Empire, includes their song, \"Journey Kid\" on their most recent album titled \"Orphan\". Journey Kid can also be viewed on YouTube. Australian composer Phillip Wilcher composed a 4-string quartet piece titled \"Remembered upon Waking\", performed by the Linden Quartet. David LaCroix wrote and dedicated his piece, \"In A Little While\" to Breedlove and all the people that have \"gone on to a better place than here\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5260111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5260111", "title": "Beware! The Blob", "text": "Beware! The Blob\n\nBeware! The Blob (a.k.a. Beware the Blob, Son of Blob, Son of the Blob or The Blob Returns) is a 1972 American independent comedy science-fiction horror film. It is a sequel to The Blob. The film was directed by Larry Hagman. The screenplay was penned by Anthony Harris and Jack Woods III, based on a story by Jack H. Harris and Richard Clair. The film originally earned a GP rating from the MPAA, though it is now unrated.\n\nPicking up fifteen years after the events of the first movie \"The Blob\", an oil pipeline lawyer named Chester (Godfrey Cambridge) returns to his suburban Los Angeles home from the North Pole, bringing with him a small sample of a mysterious frozen substance uncovered by a bulldozer on a job site. Prior to taking the substance to a lab to be analyzed, he places the storage container with the substance in his freezer, but he and his wife (Marlene Clark) accidentally let it thaw, creating a second Blob. It starts by eating a fly, then a kitten, then Chester's wife, and then Chester himself (while, in an intentional anachronism by the film makers, he is watching a television broadcast of the film \"The Blob\").\n\nLisa (Gwynne Gilford), a friend, walks in to see Chester being consumed by the Blob. She escapes, but cannot get anyone to believe her, not even her boyfriend Bobby (Robert Walker Jr.). Meanwhile, the rapidly growing creature quietly preys upon the town. Some of its victims include a police officer and two hippies (Cindy Williams and Randy Stonehill) in a storm drain, a barber (Shelley Berman) and his client, transients (played by director Hagman, Burgess Meredith and Del Close), a Scoutmaster (Dick Van Patten), a farm full of chickens and horses, people in a gas station, and various townspeople who turn up \"missing\".\n\nAt one point, Lisa and Bobby find themselves trapped in Bobby's truck with the creature attempting to find a way inside. While panicking, the truck's air conditioning is accidentally switched on and the Blob retreats because of its vulnerability to cold.\n\nThe now-massive Blob then invades a bowling alley and a skating rink (consuming dozens more people in the process). It is finally stopped when Bobby activates the rink's ice mechanism, freezing it. While the frozen Blob is being filmed by a television crew, one of the crew's bright lights is positioned on the ground, melting a small portion of it, which oozes toward the sheriff and envelops his feet as he is speaking on camera to a nationwide television audience.\n\nLarry Hagman previously directed episodes of \"I Dream of Jeannie\" and \"The Good Life\" and went on to do the same for several episodes of \"Dallas\" and \"In the Heat of the Night\" (the only series he directed for that he never acted on). This would be his only feature film as a director. To cast the film, Hagman recruited friends from the motion picture industry, (some of whom were literally neighbors of his in Malibu, California, including Burgess Meredith and Carol Lynley) who were asked if they would like to be \"blobbed\". Gwynne Gilford was cast as the lead via the traditional auditioning process, while Robert Walker Jr. was an early hire by Jack H. Harris himself.\n\nBudgeted at slightly more than the 1958 version at $150,000, filming began in the spring of 1971, primarily on the property of a horse stable and ranch home in Diamond Bar, California, as well as in Pomona, California, both 30 miles east of Los Angeles. The climactic finale at the bowling alley and ice skating rink was filmed at two separate locations. The former Grand Central Bowl in Glendale, California stood in for the bowling alley (the building still stands as part of the Disney Imagineering complex), while the ice skating rink scenes were filmed at the former Rollerdrome in Culver City, California (immediately prior to the building being torn down in August, 1971 to make way for Tellefson Park). The party scene was filmed in a loft in Venice, California. In an interview in \"Fangoria\" magazine, screenwriter and first time producer Anthony Harris stated that a good portion of the filmed material was improvised on the set, and that his script was ignored. While in production, Harris was also in the process of preparing a second sequel, \"Curse of the Blob,\" but these plans were never implemented.\n\nContrary to the original 1958 film, in which the Blob was largely portrayed by gallons of dyed red silicone (which repeatedly needed to be stirred to maintain the consistent red color), the Blob in \"Beware! the Blob\" was mostly created from a red-dyed powder blended with water to form the desired consistency. The Blob was alternately created from other materials as well, including a large red plastic balloon, semi-transparent red plastic sheeting illuminated with a backlight, and a large rotating red drum of hard red silicone placed in front of the camera lens. \n\nRenowned cinematographer Dean Cundey, who would later go on to be a cinematographer on such films as \"Halloween\", \"The Thing\", the \"Back to the Future\" series and \"Jurassic Park\", worked on \"Beware! The Blob\" as one of the three special effects technicians (alongside supervisor Tim Baar and Conrad Rothmann) responsible for creating the Blob effects. Cundey was also the camera operator on second unit shots of the Blob eating the fly, the kitten, etc.\n\n\"Beware! The Blob\" was intended as a December, 1971 release, but was held off until June, 1972 to capitalize on the lucrative summer movie and drive in audience. An exceptional film marketer, Harris later paired the movie with other films he held the rights to (notably \"Equinox\"), and renamed the film \"Son of Blob\" in some markets as a test title. The film premiered on television in 1974.\n\nIn 1982, the film was re-issued with the tagline \"The film that J.R. shot!\" in an attempt to capitalize on the success of Hagman's television series \"Dallas\", using a twist on the show's popular meme, \"Who shot J.R.?\"\n\nAs \"Son of Blob\" together with \"The Blob\", the film was released on DVD by Umbrella Entertainment in September 2011. The DVD is compatible with all region codes. \"Beware! The Blob\" was transferred to HD in its correct 1.85 ratio and released on Blu-ray by Kino Lorber on September 20, 2016.\n\nFilm historians Kim R. Holston and Tom Winchester considered the film was: \"Now viewed as a relic of mid- to late-hippiedom ... overall, there's some tension, and some nods to the predecessor.\"\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "850454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850454", "title": "Bruce Ames", "text": "Bruce Ames\n\nBruce Nathan Ames (born December 16, 1928) is an American biochemist. He is a professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, and a senior scientist at Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute (CHORI). He is the inventor of the Ames test, a system for easily and cheaply testing the mutagenicity of compounds.\n\nAmes, raised in New York City, is a graduate of the Bronx High School of Science. His undergraduate studies were at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, and his graduate studies were completed at the California Institute of Technology.\n\nAmes was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1970.\n\nHe is a recipient of the Bolton S. Corson Medal in 1980, Tyler Prize for Environmental Achievement in 1985, the Japan Prize in 1997, the National Medal of Science in 1998 and the Thomas Hunt Morgan Medal in 2004, among many others.\n\nHis research focuses on cancer and aging and he has authored over 550 scientific publications. He is among the few hundred most-cited scientists in all fields.\n\nAmes' current research includes identifying agents that delay the mitochondrial decay of aging, understanding the role of mitochondrial decay in aging, particularly in the brain, optimizing micronutrient intakes in the population to prevent disease, malnutrition, and obesity. He is also interested in mutagens as they relate to cancer prevention and aging.\n\nDr. Ames received more than $650,000 in support from the National Foundation for Cancer Research between 1998 and 2007.\n\nIn the 1970s, Bruce Ames developed the Ames test which is a cheap and convenient assay for mutagens and therefore potential carcinogens. Previous carcinogenic testing used live animals, and the procedures are expensive and time-consuming. This made animal testing impractical for use in screening on a wide scale, and reduced the number of compounds that could be tested. The Ames test on the other hand uses the bacteria \"Salmonella typhimurium\" to test for mutagens, and is considerably cheaper and faster. The Ames test became widely used as an initial screen for possible carcinogens and has been used to identify potential carcinogens previously used in commercial products. Their identification led to some of those formulations, such as chemicals used in hair dye, being withdrawn from commercial use. The ease with which Ames test allows widely used chemicals to be identified as possible carcinogens made him an early hero of environmentalism.\n\nSubsequent work in Ames' lab involved looking at an overview of what was mutagenic or carcinogenic, and to what degree. Previously, scientists tended to only look for positive or negative results without considering the magnitude of the effect, which meant that as more and more items were shown to be potentially mutagenic, there was no system for evaluating the relative dangers. He also continued to test various natural and man-made compounds, and discovered that, despite what he and others had assumed, naturally occurring compounds were not turning out to be benign as compared to man-made ones. His continued work eventually led to his falling out of favor with many environmentalists. As natural chemicals turned out to also be frequently mutagenic, he argued that environmental exposure to manufactured chemicals may be of limited relevance to human cancer, even when such chemicals are mutagenic in an Ames test and carcinogenic in rodent assays. He contended that most human genetic damage arises from essential micronutrients lacking in poor diets and the oxidation of DNA during normal metabolism, and that the most important environmental carcinogens may include some whose chief effect is to cause the chronic division of stem cells whereby the normal protective mechanisms of a cell become less effective.\n\nHe argued against the banning of synthetic pesticides and other chemicals such as Alar which have been shown to be carcinogenic. Ames published results showing that many ordinary food products would be found carcinogenic according to the same criteria. Ames was concerned that overzealous attention to the relatively minor health effects of trace quantities of carcinogens may divert scarce financial resources away from major health risks, and cause public confusion about the relative importance of different hazards. Ames considered himself a leading “contrarian in the hysteria over tiny traces of chemicals that may or may not cause cancer\", and said that \"if you have thousands of hypothetical risks that you are supposed to pay attention to, that completely drives out the major risks you should be aware of.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1139494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139494", "title": "Burton K. Wheeler", "text": "Burton K. Wheeler\n\nBurton Kendall Wheeler (February 27, 1882January 6, 1975) was an attorney and an American politician of the Democratic Party in Montana; he served as a United States Senator from 1923 until 1947. He returned to his law practice and lived in Washington, D.C. for his remaining years.\n\nWheeler was an independent Democrat who initially represented the left wing of the party, receiving support from Montana's labor unions. He ran for vice president in 1924 on the Progressive Party ticket headed by Wisconsin Republican Robert La Follette, Sr.. An ardent New Deal liberal until 1937, he broke with President Franklin D. Roosevelt on the issue of packing the United States Supreme Court. In foreign policy from 1938–41 he became a leader of the non-interventionist wing of the party, fighting against entry into World War II until the attack on Pearl Harbor.\n\nWheeler was born in Hudson, Massachusetts, to Mary Elizabeth Rice (née Tyler) and Asa Leonard Wheeler. He grew up in Massachusetts, attending the public schools. He first worked as a stenographer in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nHe traveled west to attend University of Michigan Law School, where he graduated in 1905. He initially intended to settle in Seattle, but after getting off the train in Butte, Montana, he lost his belongings in a poker game. The new attorney settled there and began practicing law.\n\nWheeler married Lulu M. White. They had six children: John, Elizabeth, Edward, Frances, Richard and Marion. Frances helped her father with his research for his autobiography, \"Yankee from the West: The Candid, Turbulent Life Story of the Yankee-born U. S. Senator from Montana\", which he published in 1962 and dedicated to her and his wife.\n\nWheeler was elected as a Montana state legislator in 1910, and in that position, he gained a reputation as a champion of labor against the Anaconda Copper Mining Company, which dominated the state's economy and politics. He was appointed as a United States Attorney. During his tenure, he was notable for not issuing a single sedition indictment during World War I, especially significant as Montana was a large stronghold of the Industrial Workers of the World. In other parts of the country, IWW membership was suppressed under the new sedition law. \n\nIn 1920, Wheeler ran for Governor of Montana, easily winning the Democratic primary, and he won the support of the Non-Partisan League in the general election. The ticket included a multi-racial set of candidates, unusual for 1920, including an African American and a Blackfoot Indian. Wheeler was defeated by Republican former U.S. Senator Joseph M. Dixon.\n\nWheeler ran as a Democrat for the Senate in 1922, and was elected over Congressman Carl W. Riddick, the Republican nominee, with 55% of the vote. He broke with the Democratic Party in 1924 to run for Vice President of the United States on the Progressive Party ticket led by La Follette. They carried one state—La Follette's Wisconsin—and ran well in union areas and railroad towns. He returned to the Democratic Party after the election, which Republican Calvin Coolidge won in an Electoral College landslide. He served a total of four terms and was re-elected in 1928, 1934, and 1940.\n\nIn 1930, Wheeler gained national attention when he successfully campaigned for the reelection to the U.S. Senate of his friend and Democratic colleague Thomas Gore, the colorful \"Blind Cowboy\" of Oklahoma. Wheeler supported President Franklin D. Roosevelt's election, and many of his New Deal policies. He broke with Roosevelt over his opposition to the Judicial Procedures Reform Bill of 1937, and also opposed much of Roosevelt's foreign policy before World War II. In the 1940 presidential election, there was a large movement to \"Draft Wheeler\" into the presidential race, possibly as a third party candidate, led primarily by John L. Lewis. \n\nIn 1938, Wheeler introduced Senate Resolution 294, a \"sense of the senate\" statement that, in order to insure fair competition, AM radio stations in the United States should be limited to a transmitter power of 50,000 watts.\nNow commonly known as the Wheeler resolution, it was approved on June 13, 1938 and the next year the Federal Communications Commission implemented a 50,000 watt cap, which still remains in force.\n\nWheeler, an outspoken non-interventionist, opposed the U.S. entry into World War II.\n\nAs tensions mounted in Europe, he supported the anti-war America First Committee. As chair of the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee, Wheeler announced in August 1941 he would investigate “interventionists” in the motion picture industry. He questioned why so many foreign-born men were allowed to shape American opinion. \"Critics charged that the Committee was motivated by animus to Jewish studio heads.\" Representing the studios was 1940 Republican Presidential candidate Wendell Willkie who charged that Wheeler and other critics sought to impose the same kind of censorship that Nazi Germany was enacting all over Europe. Wheeler also led the attack on Roosevelt's Lend Lease Bill charging that if passed \"it would plow under every fourth American boy\". Roosevelt in response charged that Wheeler's statement was \"the damnedest thing said in a generation\".\n\nAfter the start of World War II in Europe, Wheeler opposed aid to Britain or the other Allies, already fighting in the war. On October 17, 1941, Wheeler said: \"I can't conceive of Japan being crazy enough to want to go to war with us.\" One month later, he added: \"If we go to war with Japan, the only reason will be to help England.\" The United States Army secret Victory Program was leaked on 4 December 1941 to Wheeler, who passed this information on to three newspapers.\n\nFollowing Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor, Wheeler supported a declaration of war saying, \"The only thing now is to do our best to lick hell out of them.\"\n\nWheeler sought renomination in 1946 but was defeated in the Democratic primary by Leif Erickson, who attacked Wheeler as insufficiently liberal and for his \"pre-war isolationist\" views. Erickson in turn was defeated by Republican state representative Zales Ecton.\n\nOn September 15, 1950, Wheeler served as counsel to fellow Democrat from Minnesota Max Lowenthal during the latter's testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee.\n\nWheeler did not return to politics, nor full-time to Montana, but took up his law practice in Washington, D.C. Aided by research by his daughter, Frances (died 1957), Wheeler wrote his autobiography, with Paul F. Healy, \"Yankee from the West\", published in 1962 by Doubleday & Company. He dedicated the book to his wife and daughter. He died in Washington, D.C., aged 92, and is interred in the District of Columbia's Rock Creek Cemetery. His Butte home is a National Historic Landmark in recognition of his national political role.\n\nIn 2004, journalist Bill Kauffman described Wheeler as having been notable as an \"anti-draft, anti-war, anti-big business defender of civil liberties\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42220395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42220395", "title": "Charles Dryden (English writer)", "text": "Charles Dryden (English writer)\n\nCharles Dryden (1666–1704), was chamberlain to Pope Innocent XII, He was the eldest son of John Dryden the poet. He was educated at Westminster and Trinity College, Oxford: translated Juvenal's seventh satire for his father's version, 1692. He drowned in the Thames.\n\nCharles Dryden, born at Charlton in 1666, was the first son of John Dryden the poet, and his wife Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas Howard, 1st Earl of Berkshire. He was educated at Westminster, elected to Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nIn 1683, Dryden wrote some poems, one of which, in Latin, appeared in the second \"Miscellany\". He executed the seventh satire for his father's translation of Juvenal in 1692. About that time he went to Italy and was appointed chamberlain to Pope Innocent XII. Here he wrote an English poem which appeared in the fourth \"Miscellany\". He returned to England about 1697 or 1698; administered to his father's effects; was drowned in the Thames near Datchet, and buried at Windsor 20 August 1704. It should be noted that Sir Walter Scott records in his \"Life of John Dryden\" (1834) that Charles was attempting to swim across the Thames on August 20.\n\nDryden, who was a believer in astrology, calculated his son's horoscope, and on the strength of it prophesied in 1697 that he will soon recover his health, injured by a fall at Rome. Corinna constructed an elaborate fiction upon this basis, showing that Dryden had foretold three periods of danger to his son; at one of which Charles fell from a (non-existent) tower of the Vatican five stories high and was \"mashed to a mummy\" for the time. Malone reprints this narrative, which is only worth notice from the use made of it in Sir Walter Scott's \"Guy Mannering\".\n"}
{"id": "12739625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12739625", "title": "Chorea gravidarum", "text": "Chorea gravidarum\n\nChorea gravidarum is a rare type of chorea which presents with involuntary abnormal movement, characterized by abrupt, brief, nonrhythmic, nonrepetitive movement of any limb, often associated with nonpatterned facial grimaces. It is a complication of pregnancy which can be associated with eclampsia and its effects upon the basal ganglia. It is not an causal or pathologically distinct entity but a generic term for chorea of any cause starting during pregnancy. It is associated with history of Sydenham's chorea. It mostly occurs in young patients; the average age is 22 years.\n\nRecently there has been a decline in incidence which is probably the result of a decline in rheumatic fever (RF), which was a major cause of chorea gravidarum before the use of antibiotics for streptococcal pharyngitis.\n\nSeveral pathogenetic mechanisms for chorea gravidarum have been offered, but none have been proven.\nHistory of either rheumatic fever or chorea is suspected: the suggestion is that estrogens and progesterone may sensitize dopamine receptors (presumably at a striatal level) and induce chorea in individuals who are vulnerable to this complication by virtue of preexisting pathology in the basal ganglia.\nThe relation to rheumatic fever was strengthened by many studies that showed that women with normal pregnancies before rheumatic fever developed chorea in subsequent pregnancies. At least 35% of patients have a definite history of acute rheumatic fever and Sydenham chorea; 4% of those with chorea gravidarum had acute rheumatic fever.\n\nIt has been suggested that use of oral contraceptives is an infrequent cause of chorea. A patient developed this chorea with no definite evidence of previous Sydenham's chorea or recent streptoccocal infections, but had anti-basal ganglia antibodies, suggesting immunological basis for the pathophysiology of this chorea.\n\n\nChorea can also be a manifestation of drug toxicity (for example, anticonvulsants, antiparkinson agents, neuroleptics, steroids, and estrogen), or a result of an infectious disease such as meningovascular syphilis, Lyme disease, viral encephalitis, and many others.\n\nDrug treatment is indicated for patients with severe disabling chorea. It is treated with haloperidol, chlorpromazine alone or in combination with diazepam, and also pimozide, which is another neuroleptic drug which may have fewer adverse effects than haloperidol. Valproic acid, chloral hydrate, risperidone, or phenobarbital can also be used.\n\n"}
{"id": "48709903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48709903", "title": "David Bird (journalist)", "text": "David Bird (journalist)\n\nDavid Christopher Bird (c. 1959–2014) was an American journalist who covered energy markets for \"The Wall Street Journal\" and was deputy managing editor for Dow Jones Energy Service. He was known for his ability to detect emerging market trends, particularly the decline in oil prices that began in 2014, before they otherwise became apparent, through close analysis of data. Before working at the \"Journal\" he had worked for Dow Jones overseas, based in its London office.\n\nIn early 2014 he left his Millington, New Jersey, home for a short walk and never returned. Local search efforts, hampered by that year's severe winter weather, failed to find any trace of him. Conspiracy theories surfaced, especially after an erroneous report that his credit card had been used overseas, suggesting his disappearance was part of a pattern of suspicious deaths in the financial sector. However, when his body was finally found in a nearby river 14 months later, the coroner ruled his death an accidental drowning and said there were no signs of foul play.\n\nA native of the Trenton area, Bird was a graduate of Rider University. In addition to his journalistic work he was an outdoor enthusiast who led Boy Scout hiking trips and ran marathons. He did the latter to raise awareness for organ donation, since his life had been saved by a liver transplant following a hepatitis infection he suffered in the early 2000s.\n\nBird was born in Trenton, New Jersey, and was the youngest of six children. After attending a Catholic elementary school in Hamilton Township, south of Trenton, where the family lived, he went to Notre Dame High School in nearby Lawrenceville. He graduated from Rider College in 1980.\n\nBird worked at the \"News-Press\" of Fort Myers, Florida before joining Dow Jones Newswires, and subsequently transferring to Dow Jones's London office. Five years into his career, Bird traveled extensively through Europe and the Middle East, returning to the U.S. in 1988.\n\nBird worked for Dow Jones & Company (the publisher of the \"Wall Street Journal\"), for more than twenty years, rising to become deputy managing editor of the Dow Jones Energy Service. He was a key reporter on energy markets.\n\nAfter his death, \"Journal\" editor-in-chief Gerard Baker praised Bird's reportorial zeal. \"His ability to navigate the vast troves of public oil data was unmatched,\" Baker wrote in a memo to staff. \"At 10:30 a.m. on Wednesdays, he could often be seen hunched over his computer, sifting through spreadsheets and crunching numbers just released by the Energy Information Administration. He was often the first to gain insight into important energy-market trends.\"\n\nLate in the afternoon of January 11, 2014, Bird, who was recovering from a brief stomach illness, left his home in the Millington section of Long Hill Township, New Jersey. He told his wife that he planned to go for a brief walk around nearby wooded trails, clad in a distinctive red raincoat with yellow zippers, jeans and sneakers. After his return, he said, he intended to take down the family's Christmas lights. He left his cell phone to recharge in his absence.\n\nBy the evening, however, he had not returned. His wife called the police and reported him missing. Finding him alive was of great importance to the family, since he was required to take anti-rejection drugs due to his liver transplant. Those had been left at the house as well.\n\n\"This wasn't right,\" his wife said later. \"Something was wrong.\" A fellow Boy Scout leader noted that Bird \"was stuck somewhere, he knows how to shelter himself enough out of the elements. He knows how to signal if he can.\"\n\nA few days after Bird disappeared, NBC News reported that his credit card had been used in Mexico. His family, the network claimed, believed his disappearance was not an accident and somehow related to his work. The family, through a friend, said those were not serious investigative leads, just theories being floated by those looking for answers. Later they learned that the card had not, in fact, been used in Mexico after he disappeared; it had instead just been hacked. Later, his wife Nancy called that report \"a distraction, honestly.\"\n\nEarly efforts to search included helicopter patrols by New Jersey State Police, with Morris County park police following up on horseback and all-terrain vehicle while divers searched the nearby Passaic River. Searchers suffered a setback when the winter weather turned colder than usual two weeks later followed by heavy snow throughout the region throughout the next two months; they continued their efforts by retracing their steps along the sides of local roadways, looking for signs of an unreported motor vehicle accident or personal items. In March, when the snow melted, the search resumed, focusing on areas nearby where Bird had been known to hike and retracing earlier routes. In May local police said their goal was to have the entire area within a radius of the Bird home thoroughly searched.\n\nDow Jones offered a $10,000 reward for information on Bird's whereabouts, and colleagues and others raised $35,000 in contributions for Bird's family. Dow Jones also kept paying Bird's salary through the end of July 2014, changing his status to unpaid leave of absence after that point. After Bird was taken off the payroll, the Independent Association of Publishers' Employees 1096, the trade union representing \"Journal\" reporters, donated $10,000 to the family and matched members' contributions up to another $10,000. Although no new leads had surfaced, on the first anniversary of Bird's disappearance his family and friends led a candlelight vigil and walk through a nearby park where he had often walked, ending in a bonfire, to keep attention on the case.\n\nOn March 18, 2015, a family website asking for assistance in the search went online. That day, two canoeists on the Passaic, its waters high after another winter of heavy snow and bitter cold, found Bird's red jacket entangled in branches on the Morris County side of a stretch of the river near King George Road in neighboring Somerset County's Warren Township, roughly one mile (1.6 km) from Bird's home. They notified authorities, who found the body about off the shoreline, under of water, an area that had been searched before several times. The remains were identified through dental records. A subsequent investigation determined that the cause of death was accidental drowning. His wife believed it was possible that Bird \"slipped and fell into the water while hurrying home ahead of an incoming storm.\"\n\nBird met Nancy Fleming around 1988, and they wed in 1991. The couple had two children, a son born in 1998 and a daughter born in 2001.\n\nBird contracted a rare form of hepatitis about nine years before his disappearance and death and received a lifesaving liver transplant in 2004, which Bird discussed on his blog and which was reported in local newspapers. Bird was an advocate for organ donation.\n\nBird was described in his \"Wall Street Journal\" obituary as \"an avid hiker, lover of reggae music, a Boston Red Sox fan, cyclist, camper, marathoner and a scout-troop leader\" who had traveled to more than 35 countries.\n\nIn the last years of his life he had started running marathons. In 2012 he finished the Harrisburg Marathon, followed by the New York City Marathon the next year. He also competed in the New York City Triathlon twice and was a member of Team Liberty at the National Transplant Games. Through his athletic activities he hoped to draw support for organ donation and be an example for other transplant recipients.\n\nRunning the marathon had particular significance for Bird since he had first learned he would need a transplant to live on the day of the 2004 marathon. He ran the race with a note thanking his donor pinned to him. \"I met my goal of hitting the finish line in less time than I was in surgery,\" he said later.\n\nAlthough no signs of foul play were reported in his death, Bird's fate inspired theories that what happened was somehow the result of a conspiracy of some nature that had also claimed other lives in the financial industry during the same period. According to the theory, his disappearance and death were related to a string of suicides and other untimely deaths of present and former JPMorganChase employees in late 2013 and early 2014, supposedly after two of them had uncovered evidence of major wrongdoing on the company's part. In his final column for \"Bloomberg View\", several months after Bird was reported missing, William D. Cohan, a former Chase employee himself who had some admitted disputes with the company, looked into the rumors and found that Chase had indeed experienced an unusual number of deaths of employees in their 30s during that period, especially when compared to similarly-sized investment banks. But, since several of those deaths were indisputably suicides, he concluded that it was just as likely that those deaths were simply the result of working in an already stressful industry during a stressful period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30625300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30625300", "title": "Egyptian revolution of 2011", "text": "Egyptian revolution of 2011\n\nThe Egyptian revolution of 2011, locally known as the January 25 Revolution (; ), and as the Egyptian Revolution of Dignity began on 25 January 2011 and took place across all of Egypt. The date was set by various youth groups to coincide with the annual Egyptian \"police day\" as a statement against increasing police brutality during the last few years of Mubarak's presidency. It consisted of demonstrations, marches, occupations of plazas, non-violent civil resistance, acts of civil disobedience and strikes. Millions of protesters from a range of socio-economic and religious backgrounds demanded the overthrow of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. The revolution started by calls for protests from online youth groups. Initially these included liberal, anti-capitalist, nationalist, and feminist elements, but they finally included Islamist elements as well. Violent clashes between security forces and protesters resulted in at least 846 people killed and over 6,000 injured. Protesters retaliated by burning over 90 police stations across the country. The protests took place in Cairo, Alexandria, and in all major cities across the nation.\n\nThe Egyptian protesters' grievances focused on legal and political issues, including police brutality, state-of-emergency laws, lack of free elections and freedom of speech, corruption, and economic issues including high unemployment, food-price inflation and low wages. The protesters' primary demands were the end of the Mubarak regime and emergency law, freedom, justice, a responsive non-military government and a voice in managing Egypt's resources. Strikes by labour unions added to the pressure on government officials.\n\nDuring the uprising, the capital Cairo was described as \"a war zone\" and the port city of Suez saw frequent violent clashes. Protesters defied a government-imposed curfew, which was impossible to enforce by the police and military. Egypt's Central Security Forces, loyal to Mubarak, were gradually replaced by military troops. In the chaos, there was some looting by gangs which was instigated (according to opposition sources) by plainclothes police officers. In response, watch groups were organized by civilians to protect neighbourhoods.\n\nInternational reaction has varied, with most Western nations condoning peaceful protests but concerned about the stability of Egypt and the region. The Egyptian and Tunisian revolutions have influenced demonstrations in other Arab countries, including Yemen, Bahrain, Jordan, Syria and Libya.\n\nMubarak dissolved his government, appointing former head of the Egyptian General Intelligence Directorate Omar Suleiman vice-president in an attempt to quell dissent. Mubarak asked aviation minister and former chief of Egypt's air force Ahmed Shafik (who ran for presidency later) to form a new government. Mohamed ElBaradei became a major opposition figure, with all major opposition groups supporting his role as negotiator for a transitional unity government. In response to mounting pressure, Mubarak, in another attempt to contain the crisis, announced he did not intend to seek re-election in September.\n\nOn 11 February 2011, Vice President Omar Suleiman announced that Mubarak would resign as president, turning power over to the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF). The military junta, headed by effective head of state Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, announced on 13 February that the constitution would be suspended, both houses of parliament dissolved and the military would rule for six months (until elections could be held). The previous cabinet, including Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik, would serve as a caretaker government until a new one was formed. Shafik, seen by the masses as another Mubarak figure, resigned on 3 March, a day before major protests to force him to step down were planned, and was replaced by former transport minister Essam Sharaf. On 24 May 2011, Mubarak was ordered to stand trial on charges of premeditated murder of peaceful protesters and, if convicted, could have faced the death penalty. On 2 June 2012, Mubarak was found guilty of complicity in the murder of protesters and sentenced to life imprisonment, but the sentence was overturned on appeal and a retrial ordered. A number of protesters, upset that others tried with Mubarak (including his two sons) were acquitted, took to the streets. Mubarak was eventually cleared of all charges on 29 November 2014, although Egypt's prosecutor general announced he would appeal the verdict.\n\nAfter the revolution against Mubarak and a period of rule by the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, the Muslim Brotherhood took power in Egypt through a series of popular elections, with Egyptians electing Islamist Mohamed Morsi to the presidency in June 2012. However, Morsi's government encountered fierce opposition after his attempt to pass an Islamic-leaning constitution. Morsi also issued a temporary presidential decree that raised his decisions over judicial review to enable the passing of the constitution. It sparked general outrage from secularists and members of the military, and mass protests broke out against his rule on 28 June 2013. On 3 July 2013, Morsi was deposed by a coup d'état led by the minister of defense, General Abdel Fattah El-Sisi as millions of Egyptians took to the streets in support of early elections. El-Sisi went on to become Egypt's president by popular election in 2014.\n\nIn Egypt and other parts of the Arab world, the protests and governmental changes are also known as the ( \"Thawrat 25 Yanāyir\"), ( \"Thawrat Horeya\") or ( \"Thawrat al-Ġaḍab\"), and (less frequently) the ( \"Thawrat al-Shabāb\"), () or ( \"al-Thawrah al-bayḍāʾ\").\n\nHosni Mubarak became President of Egypt after the assassination of Anwar Sadat in 1981. Mubarak's National Democratic Party (NDS) maintained one-party rule under a continual state of emergency. His government received support from the West and aid from the United States by its suppression of Islamic militants and peace with Israel. Mubarak was often compared to an Egyptian pharaoh by the media and some critics, due to his authoritarian rule. He was in the 30th year of his reign when the Revolution of 2011 began.\n\nMubarak's younger son, was expected to succeed his father as the next president of Egypt in 2000. Gamal began receiving attention from the Egyptian media, since there were apparently no other heirs to the presidency. Bashar al-Assad's rise to power in Syria in June 2000, hours after Hafez al-Assad's death, sparked debate in the Egyptian press about the prospects for a similar scenario in Cairo.\n\nDuring the years after Mubarak's 2005 re-election, several left- and right-wing (primarily unofficial) political groups expressed opposition to the inheritance of power, demanded reforms and asked for a multi-candidate election. In 2006, with opposition increasing, \"Daily News Egypt\" reported an online campaign initiative (the National Initiative against Power Inheritance) demanding that Gamal reduce his power. The campaign said, \"President Mubarak and his son constantly denied even the possibility of [succession]. However, in reality they did the opposite, including amending the constitution to make sure that Gamal will be the only unchallenged candidate.\"\n\nDuring the decade, public perception grew that Gamal would succeed his father. He wielded increasing power as NDP deputy secretary general and chair of the party's policy committee. Analysts described Mubarak's last decade in power as \"the age of Gamal Mubarak\". With his father's health declining and no appointed vice-president, Gamal was considered Egypt's \"de facto\" president by some. Although Gamal and Hosni Mubarak denied an inheritance of power, Gamal could be elected; with Hosni Mubarak's presidential term set to expire in 2010, speculation existed that Gamal would run as the NDP candidate in 2011. However, after the January–February 2011 protest Gamal Mubarak said that he would not run for president in the 2011 elections.\n\nEmergency law (Law No. 162 of 1958) was enacted in the country after the 1967 Six-Day War. Although it was suspended for 18 months during the early 1980s, it has otherwise continuously been in effect since Anwar Sadat's 1981 assassination. Emergency law extended police powers, suspended constitutional rights, legalised censorship and abolished \"habeas corpus\". It limits non-governmental political activity, including demonstrations, unapproved political organizations and unregistered financial donations. The Mubarak government has cited the threat of terrorism in extending emergency law, claiming that opposition groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood could gain power in Egypt if the government did not forgo parliamentary elections and suppress the group through emergency law. This has led to the imprisonment of activists without trial, illegal, undocumented and hidden detention facilities and the rejection of university, mosque and newspaper staff based on their political affiliation. A December 2010 parliamentary election was preceded by a media crackdown, arrests, candidate bans (particularly Muslim Brotherhood candidates) and allegations of fraud due to the near-unanimous victory by the NDP in parliament. Human-rights organizations estimate that in 2010, between 5,000 and 10,000 people were in long-term detention without charge or trial.\n\nAccording to a U.S. Embassy report, police brutality has been widespread in Egypt. In the five years before the revolution, the Mubarak regime denied the existence of torture or abuse by police. However, claims by domestic and international groups provided cellphone videos or first-hand accounts of hundreds of cases of police brutality. According to the 2009 Human Rights Report from the U.S. State Department, \"Domestic and international human rights groups reported that the Ministry of Interior (MOI) State Security Investigative Service (SSIS), police, and other government entities continued to employ torture to extract information or force confessions. The Egyptian Organization for Human Rights documented 30 cases of torture during the year 2009. In numerous trials defendants alleged that police tortured them during questioning. During the year activists and observers circulated some amateur cellphone videos documenting the alleged abuse of citizens by security officials. For example, on 8 February, a blogger posted a video of two police officers, identified by their first names and last initials, sodomizing a bound naked man named Ahmed Abdel Fattah Ali with a bottle. On 12 August, the same blogger posted two videos of alleged police torture of a man in a Port Said police station by the head of investigations, Mohammed Abu Ghazala. There was no indication that the government investigated either case.\"\n\nThe deployment of Baltageya ()—plainclothes police—by the NDP has been a hallmark of the Mubarak government. The Egyptian Organisation for Human Rights has documented 567 cases of torture, including 167 deaths, by police from 1993 to 2007. Excessive force was often used by law-enforcement agencies against popular uprisings. On 6 June 2010 Khaled Mohamed Saeed died under disputed circumstances in the Sidi Gaber area of Alexandria, with witnesses testifying that he was beaten to death by police - an event which galvanized Egyptians around the issue of police brutality. Authorities stated that Khaled died choking on hashish while being chased by police officers. However, pictures of Khaled's disfigured corpse from the morgue showed signs of torture. A Facebook page, \"We are all Khaled Said\", helped attract nationwide attention to the case. Mohamed ElBaradei, former head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, led a 2010 rally in Alexandria against police abuse, and visited Saeed's family to offer condolences.\n\nDuring the January–February 2011 protests, police brutality was common. Jack Shenker, a reporter for \"The Guardian\", was arrested during the Cairo protests on 26 January. He witnessed fellow Egyptian protesters being tortured, assaulted, and taken to undisclosed locations by police officers. Shenker and other detainees were released after covert intervention by Ayman Nour, the father of a fellow detainee.\n\nCorruption, coercion not to vote and manipulation of election results occurred during many elections over Mubarak's 30-year rule. Until 2005, Mubarak was the only presidential candidate (with a yes-or-no vote). Mubarak won five consecutive presidential elections with a sweeping majority. Although opposition groups and international election-monitoring agencies charged that the elections were rigged, those agencies were not allowed to monitor elections. The only opposition presidential candidate in recent Egyptian history, Ayman Nour, was imprisoned before the 2005 elections. According to a 2007 UN survey, voter turnout was extremely low (about 25 percent) because of a lack of trust in the political system.\n\nThe population of Egypt grew from 30,083,419 in 1966 to roughly 79,000,000 by 2008. The vast majority of Egyptians live near the banks of the Nile, in an area of about where the only arable land is found. In late 2010, about 40 percent of Egypt's population lived on the equivalent of roughly USD$2 per day, with a large portion relying on subsidized goods.\n\nAccording to the Peterson Institute for International Economics and other proponents of demographic structural approach (cliodynamics), a basic problem in Egypt is unemployment driven by a demographic youth bulge; with the number of new people entering the workforce at about four percent a year, unemployment in Egypt is almost 10 times as high for college graduates as for those who finished elementary school (particularly educated urban youth—the people who were in the streets during the revolution).\nEgypt's economy was highly centralised during the presidency of Gamal Abdel Nasser, becoming more market-driven under Anwar Sadat and Mubarak. From 2004 to 2008 the Mubarak government pursued economic reform to attract foreign investment and increase GDP, later postponing further reforms because of the Great Recession. The international economic downturn slowed Egypt's GDP growth to 4.5 percent in 2009. In 2010, analysts said that the government of Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif would need to resume economic reform to attract foreign investment, increase growth and improve economic conditions. Despite recent high national economic growth, living conditions for the average Egyptian remained relatively poor (albeit better than other African nations with no significant social upheavals).\n\nPolitical corruption in the Mubarak administration's Interior Ministry rose dramatically, due to increased control of the system necessary to sustain his presidency. The rise to power of powerful businessmen in the NDP, the government and the House of Representatives led to public anger during the Ahmed Nazif government. Ahmed Ezz monopolised the steel industry, with more than 60 percent of market share. Aladdin Elaasar, an Egyptian biographer and American professor, estimated that the Mubarak family was worth from $50 to $70 billion.\n\nThe wealth of former NDP secretary Ezz was estimated at 18 billion Egyptian pounds; the wealth of former housing minister Ahmed al-Maghraby was estimated at more than 11 billion Egyptian pounds; that of former tourism minister Zuhair Garrana is estimated at 13 billion Egyptian pounds; former minister of trade and industry Rashid Mohamed Rashid is estimated to be worth 12 billion Egyptian pounds, and former interior minister Habib al-Adly was estimated to be worth eight billion Egyptian pounds. The perception among Egyptians was that the only people benefiting from the nation's wealth were businessmen with ties to the National Democratic Party: \"Wealth fuels political power and political power buys wealth.\"\n\nDuring the 2010 elections, opposition groups complained about government harassment and fraud. Opposition and citizen activists called for changes to a number of legal and constitutional provisions affecting elections. In 2010, Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) gave Egypt a score of 3.1 based on perceptions by business people and analysts of the degree of corruption (with 10 being clean, and 0 totally corrupt).\n\nTo prepare for the possible overthrow of Mubarak, opposition groups studied Gene Sharp's work on nonviolent action and worked with leaders of Otpor!, the student-led Serbian organisation. Copies of Sharp's list of 198 non-violent \"weapons\", translated into Arabic and not always attributed to him, were circulated in Tahrir Square during its occupation.\n\nFollowing the ousting of Tunisian president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali after mass protests, many analysts (including former European Commission President Romano Prodi) saw Egypt as the next country where such a revolution might occur. According to \"The Washington Post\", \"The Jasmine Revolution [...] should serve as a stark warning to Arab leaders – beginning with Egypt's 83-year-old Hosni Mubarak – that their refusal to allow more economic and political opportunity is dangerous and untenable.\" Others believed that Egypt was not ready for revolution, citing little aspiration by the Egyptian people, low educational levels and a strong government with military support. The BBC said, \"The simple fact is that most Egyptians do not see any way that they can change their country or their lives through political action, be it voting, activism, or going out on the streets to demonstrate.\"\n\nAfter the self-immolation of Mohamed Bouazizi in Tunisia on 17 December, a man set himself afire on 18 January in front of the Egyptian parliament and five more attempts followed. On 17 January, Abdou Abdel Monaam, a baker, also set himself on fire to protest a law that prevented restaurant owners from buying subsidized bread, leading him to buy bread at the regular price - which is five times higher than the subsidized. Mohammed Farouq Mohammed, who is a lawyer, also set himself afire in front of the parliament to protest his ex-wife, who did not allow him to see his daughters. In Alexandria, an unemployed man by the name of Ahmed Hashem Sayed was also a victim of self-immolation.\n\nOpposition groups planned a day of revolt for 25 January, coinciding with National Police Day, to protest police brutality in front of the Ministry of Interior. Protesters also demanded the resignation of the Minister of Interior, an end to State corruption, the end of emergency law and presidential term limits for the president.\n\nMany political movements, opposition parties and public figures supported the day of revolt, including Youth for Justice and Freedom, the Coalition of the Youth of the Revolution, the Popular Democratic Movement for Change, the Revolutionary Socialists and the National Association for Change. The April 6 Youth Movement was a major supporter of the protest, distributing 20,000 leaflets saying \"I will protest on 25 January for my rights\". The Ghad El-Thawra Party, Karama, Wafd and Democratic Front supported the protests. The Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's largest opposition group, confirmed on 23 January that it would participate. Public figures, including novelist Alaa Al Aswany, writer Belal Fadl and actors Amr Waked and Khaled Aboul Naga, announced that they would participate. The leftist National Progressive Unionist Party (the \"Tagammu\") said that it would not participate, and the Coptic Church urged Christians not to participate in the protests.\n\nTwenty-six-year-old Asmaa Mahfouz was instrumental in sparking the protests. In a video blog posted a week before National Police Day, she urged the Egyptian people to join her on 25 January in Tahrir Square to bring down the Mubarak regime. Mahfouz's use of video blogging and social media went viral and urged people not to be afraid. The Facebook group for the event attracted 80,000 people.\n\nMost causes of the 2011 Egyptian revolution against Mubarak also existed in 1952, when the Free Officers ousted King Farouk: inherited power, corruption, under-development, unemployment, unfair distribution of wealth and the presence of Israel. A new cause of the Arab Spring is the increase in population, which increased unemployment. The first sign along the road to Mubarak was the 1967 war between Egypt and Israel.\nGamal Abdel Nasser's defeat brought Anwar Sadat to power after Nasser's death in 1970. Sadat undid Nasser's social reforms and dependence on the Soviet Union, predicting its collapse nearly two decades before it occurred.\n\nSadat neglected the modernization of Egypt, and his cronyism cost the country infrastructure industries which could generate new jobs. He was succeeded by Hosni Mubarak after Sadat's 1981 death. With no academic or governmental experience, Mubarak implemented emergency rule throughout his 30 years in office, not appointing a vice president until he was pressured to resign. Communications media such as the internet, cell phones and satellite TV channels augmented mosques and Friday prayers, traditional means of mass communications. The mosques brought the Muslim Brotherhood to power, and the Brotherhood has pressured all governments from 1928 through 2011 (as it also does in neighboring countries).\n\nTens of thousands of demonstrators filled Tahrir Square, in addition to demonstrations in Alexandria, Suez, Ismailia and Gharbeya, in the largest demonstrations since the ouster of the Mubarak regime. Protestors demanded no military trials for civilians, restoration of the Egyptian Constitution before parliament elections and for all members of the old regime (and those who killed protestors in January and February) to stand trial.\n\nthe Justice Ministry issued a decree giving military officers authority to arrest civilians and try them in military courts. The provision remains in effect until a new constitution is introduced, and could mean those detained could remain in jail for that long according to state-run Egy News.\n\nFor a chronological summary of the major events which took place \"after\" the 2011–2012 Egyptian revolution under President Mohamed Morsi, see Timeline of the 2011–2012 Egyptian revolution (Post-revolution timeline).\n\nOn 22 November 2012, Morsi issued a declaration immunizing his decrees from challenge and attempting to protect the work of the constituent assembly drafting the new constitution. The declaration required a retrial of those acquitted of killing protesters, and extended the constituent assembly's mandate by two months. The declaration also authorized Morsi to take any measures necessary to protect the revolution. Liberal and secular groups walked out of the constituent assembly because they believed that it would impose strict Islamism, while the Muslim Brotherhood supported Morsi.\n\nMorsi's declaration was criticized by Constitution Party leader Mohamed ElBaradei (who said that he had \"usurped all state powers and appointed himself Egypt's new pharaoh\"), and led to violent protests throughout the country. Protesters again erected tents in Tahrir Square, demanding a reversal of the declaration and the dissolving of the constituent assembly. A \"huge protest\" was planned for Tuesday, 27 November, with clashes reported between protesters and police. The declaration was also condemned by Amnesty International UK.\n\nIn April 2013 a youth group was created opposing Morsi and attempting to collect 22 million signatures by 30 June 2013 (the first anniversary of his presidency) on a petition demanding early presidential elections. This triggered the June 2013 protests.\nAlthough protests were scheduled for 30 June, opponents began gathering on the 28th. Morsi supporters (primarily from Islamic parties) also protested that day.\nOn 30 June the group organized large protests in Tahrir Square and the presidential palace demanding early presidential elections, which later spread to other governorates.\n\nOn 30 June 2013, marking the one-year anniversary of Morsi's inauguration as president, millions of Egyptians protested against him, demanding he step down from office. Morsi refused to resign. A 48-hour ultimatum was issued to him, demanding that he respond to the demands of the Egyptians, and on 3 July 2013, the President of Egypt was overthrown. Unlike the imposition of martial law which followed the 2011 resignation of Hosni Mubarak, on 4 July 2013, a civilian senior jurist Adly Mansour was appointed interim president and was sworn in over the new government following Morsi's removal. Mansour had the right to issue constitutional declarations and vested executive power in the Supreme Constitutional Court, giving him executive, judicial and constitutional power. Morsi refused to accept his removal from office, and many supporters vowed to reinstate him. They originally intended their sit-ins to celebrate Morsi's one-year anniversary, but they quickly became opposed to the new authorities. Their sit-ins were dispersed on August 14 that year by security forces, leading to 638 deaths, including 43 police officers.\n\nOn 18 January 2014, the interim government institutionalised a new constitution following a referendum in which 98.2% of voters were supportive. Participation was low with only 38.6% of registered voters participating although this was higher than the 33% who voted in a referendum during Morsi's tenure. On 26 March 2014 Abdel Fattah el-Sisi the head of the Egyptian Armed Forces, who at this time was in control of the country, resigned from the military, announcing he would stand as a candidate in the 2014 presidential election. The poll, which had a 47% turnout, and was held between 26 and 28 May 2014, resulted in a resounding victory for el-Sisi. Sisi sworn into office as President of Egypt on 8 June 2014.\n\nCairo has been at the epicentre of the revolution; the largest protests were held in downtown Tahrir Square, considered the \"protest movement's beating heart and most effective symbol\". During the first three days of the protests there were clashes between the central security police and demonstrators, but on 28 January the police withdrew from all of Cairo. Citizens formed neighbourhood-watch groups to maintain order, and widespread looting was reported. Traffic police were reintroduced to Cairo the morning of 31 January. An estimated two million people protested at Tahrir Square. During the protests, reporters Natasha Smith, Lara Logan and Mona Eltahawy were sexually assaulted while covering the events.\n\nAlexandria, home of Khaled Saeed, experienced major protests and clashes with police. There were few confrontations between demonstrators, since there were few Mubarak supporters (except for a few police-escorted convoys). The breakdown of law and order, including the general absence of police from the streets, continued until the evening of 3 February. Alexandria's protests were notable for the joint presence of Christians and Muslims in the events following the church bombing on 1 January, which sparked protests against the Mubarak regime.\n\nIn the northern city of Mansoura, there were daily protests against the Mubarak regime beginning on 25 January; two days later, the city was called a \"war zone\". On 28 January, 13 were reported dead in violent clashes; on 9 February, 18 more protesters died. One protest, on 1 February, had an estimated attendance of one million. The remote city of Siwa had been relatively calm, but local sheikhs reportedly in control put the community under lockdown after a nearby town was burned.\n\nSuez also saw violent protests. Eyewitness reports suggested that the death toll was high, although confirmation was difficult due to a ban on media coverage in the area. Some online activists called Suez Egypt's Sidi Bouzid (the Tunisian city where protests began). On 3 February, 4,000 protesters took to the streets to demand Mubarak's resignation. A labour strike took place on 8 February, and large protests were held on 11 February. The MENA news agency reported the death of two protestors and one police officers on January 26.\n\nThere were protests in Luxor. On 11 February police opened fire on protesters in Dairut, tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets of Shebin el-Kom, thousands protested in El-Arish on the Sinai Peninsula, large protests took place in the southern cities of Sohag and Minya and nearly 100,000 people protested in and around local-government headquarters in Ismaïlia. Over 100,000 protesters gathered on 27 January in front of the city council in Zagazig. Bedouins in the Sinai Peninsula fought security forces for several weeks. As a result of the decreased military border presence, Bedouin groups protected the borders and pledged their support of the revolution. However, despite mounting tension among tourists no protests or civil unrest occurred in Sharm-El-Sheikh.\n\nBefore the protests six cases of self-immolation were reported, including a man arrested while trying to set himself afire in downtown Cairo. The cases were inspired by (and began one month after) the acts of self-immolation in Tunisia which triggered the Tunisian revolution. The self-immolators included Abdou Abdel-Moneim Jaafar, Mohammed Farouk Hassan, Mohammed Ashour Sorour and Ahmed Hashim al-Sayyed, who later died from his injuries.\n\nAs of 30 January, \"Al Jazeera\" reported as many as 150 deaths in the protests. \"The Sun\" reported that the dead included at least ten policemen, three of whom were killed in Rafah by \"an enraged mob\".\n\nBy 29 January, 2,000 people were confirmed injured. That day, an employee of the Azerbaijani embassy in Cairo was killed on their way home from work; the following day, Azerbaijan sent a plane to evacuate citizens and opened a criminal investigation into the killing.\n\nFunerals for those killed during the \"Friday of Anger\" were held on 30 January. Hundreds of mourners gathered, calling for Mubarak's removal. By 1 February the protests left at least 125 people dead, although Human Rights Watch said that UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay claimed that as many as 300 might have died in the unrest. The unconfirmed tally included 80 Human-Rights-Watch-verified deaths at two Cairo hospitals, 36 in Alexandria and 13 in Suez; over 3,000 people were reported injured.\n\nAn Egyptian governmental fact-finding commission about the revolution announced on 19 April that at least 846 Egyptians died in the nearly three-week-long uprising. One prominent Egyptian who was killed was Emad Effat, a senior cleric at the Dar al-Ifta al-Misriyyah school of Al-Azhar University. He died 16 December 2011, after he was shot in front of the cabinet building. At Effat's funeral the following day, hundreds of mourners chanted \"Down with military rule\".\n\nInternational response to the protests was initially mixed, although most governments called for peaceful action on both sides and a move towards reform. Most Western nations expressed concern about the situation, and many governments issued travel advisories and attempted to evacuate their citizens from Egypt.\n\nThe European Union Foreign Affairs Chief said, \"I also reiterate my call upon the Egyptian authorities to urgently establish a constructive and peaceful way to respond to the legitimate aspirations of Egyptian citizens for democratic and socioeconomic reforms.\" The United States, the United Kingdom, France and Germany issued similar statements calling for reform and an end to violence against peaceful protesters. Many states in the region expressed concern and supported Mubarak; Saudi Arabia issued a statement \"strongly condemn[ing]\" the protests, while Tunisia and Iran supported them. Israel was cautious, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu asking his government ministers to maintain silence and urging Israel's allies to curb their criticism of President Mubarak; however, an Arab-Israeli parliamentarian supported the protests. Solidarity demonstrations for the protesters were held worldwide.\n\nNon-governmental organizations expressed concern about the protests and the heavy-handed state response, with Amnesty International describing attempts to discourage the protests as \"unacceptable\". Many countries (including the U.S., Israel, the UK and Japan) issued travel warnings or began evacuating their citizens, and multinational corporations began evacuating expatriate employees. Many university students were also evacuated.\n\nMany nations, leaders and organizations hailed the end of the Mubarak regime, and celebrations were held in Tunisia and Lebanon. World leaders, including German Chancellor Angela Merkel and UK Prime Minister David Cameron, joined in praising the revolution. U.S. President Barack Obama praised the achievement of the Egyptian people and encouraged other activists, saying \"Let's look at Egypt's example\". Amid growing concern for the country, David Cameron was the first world leader to visit Egypt (10 days after Mubarak's resignation). A news blackout was lifted as the prime minister landed in Cairo for a brief five-hour stopover, hastily added to the beginning of a planned tour of the Middle East. On 15 March, United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visited Egypt; she was the highest-ranking U.S. official to visit the country since the handover of power from Mubarak to the military. Clinton urged military leaders to begin the process of a democratic transition, offering support to protesters and reaffirming ties between the two nations.\n\nOn 29 January Mubarak indicated that he would change the government because, despite the crossing of a \"point of no return\", national stability and law and order must prevail. He asked the government, formed only months ago, to step down and promised that a new government would be formed. Mubarak appointed Omar Suleiman, head of Egyptian Intelligence, vice president and Ahmed Shafik prime minister. On 1 February, he said he would stay in office until the next election in September, and then leave. Mubarak promised political reform, but made no offer to resign.\n\nThe Muslim Brotherhood joined the revolution on 30 January, calling on the military to intervene and all opposition groups to unite against Mubarak. It joined other opposition groups in electing Mohamed el Baradei to lead an interim government.\n\nMany of the Al-Azhar imams joined protesters throughout the country on 30 January. Christian leaders asked their congregations not to participate in the demonstrations, although a number of young Christian activists joined protests led by New Wafd Party member Raymond Lakah.\n\nOn 31 January, Mubarak swore in his new cabinet in the hope that the unrest would fade. Protesters in Tahrir Square continued demanding his ouster, since a vice-president and prime minister were already appointed. He told the new government to preserve subsidies, control inflation and provide more jobs.\n\nOn 1 February Mubarak said that although his candidacy had been announced by high-ranking members of his National Democratic Party, he never intended to run for reelection in September. He asked parliament for reforms:\nOpposition groups, including the Muslim Brotherhood (MB), repeated their demand that Mubarak resign; after the protests turned violent, the MB said that it was time for military intervention. Mohamed ElBaradei, who said he was ready to lead a transitional government, was a consensus candidate from a unified opposition, which included the 6 April Youth Movement, the We Are All Khaled Said Movement, the National Association for Change, the 25 January Movement, Kefaya and the Muslim Brotherhood. ElBaradei formed a \"steering committee\". On 5 February, talks began between the government and opposition groups for a transitional period before elections.\n\nThe government cracked down on the media, halting internet access (a primary means of opposition communication) with the help of London-based Vodafone. Journalists were harassed by supporters of the regime, eliciting condemnation from the Committee to Protect Journalists, European countries and the United States. Narus, a subsidiary of Boeing, sold the Mubarak government surveillance equipment to help identify dissidents.\n\nThe revolution's primary demands, chanted at every protest, were bread (jobs), freedom, social justice and human dignity. The fulfillment of these demands has been uneven and debatable.\nDemands stemming from the main four include the following:\n\nOn 17 February, an Egyptian prosecutor ordered the detention of three former ministers (interior minister Habib el-Adli, tourism minister Zuhair Garana and housing minister Ahmed el-Maghrabi) and steel magnate Ahmed Ezz pending trial for wasting public funds. The public prosecutor froze the bank accounts of Adli and his family following accusations that over 4 million Egyptian pounds ($680,000) were transferred to his personal account by a businessman. The foreign minister was requested to contact European countries to freeze the other defendants' accounts.\n\nThat day, the United States announced that it would give Egypt $150 million in aid to help it transition towards democracy. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that William Burns (undersecretary of state for political affairs) and David Lipton (a senior White House adviser on international economics) would travel to Egypt the following week.\n\nOn 19 February a moderate Islamic party which had been banned for 15 years, Al-Wasat Al-Jadid (, New Center Party), was finally recognised by an Egyptian court. The party was founded in 1996 by activists who split from the Muslim Brotherhood and sought to create a tolerant, liberal Islamic movement, but its four attempts to register as an official party were rejected. That day, Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq also said that 222 political prisoners would be released. Shafiq said that only a few were detained during the uprising; he put the number of remaining political prisoners at 487, but did not say when they would be released. On 20 February , an activist and law professor, accepted on television the position of deputy prime minister. The next day, the Muslim Brotherhood announced that it would form a political party, the Freedom and Justice Party led by Saad Ketatni, for the upcoming parliamentary election. A spokesperson said, \"When we talk about the slogans of the revolution – freedom, social justice, equality – all of these are in the Sharia (Islamic law).\"\n\nOn 3 March, Prime Minister Shafiq submitted his resignation to the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces. The SCAF appointed Essam Sharaf, a former transportation minister and a vocal critic of the regime following his resignation after the 2006 Qalyoub rail accident, to replace Shafik and form a new government. Sharaf's appointment was seen as a concession to protesters, since he was actively involved in the events in Tahrir Square. Sharaf appointed former International Court of Justice judge Nabil Elaraby foreign minister and Mansour El Essawi as interior minister.\n\nOn 16 April the Higher Administrative Court dissolved the former ruling National Democratic Party (NDP), ordering its funds and property to be transferred to the government. On 24 May it was announced that Hosni Mubarak and his sons, Gamal and Alaa, would be for over the deaths of anti-government protesters during the revolution.\n\nMubarak's resignation was followed by a series of arrests of, and travel bans on, high-profile figures on charges of causing the deaths of 300–500 demonstrators, injuring 5,000 more, embezzlement, profiteering, money laundering and human rights abuses. Among those charged were Mubarak, his wife Suzanne, his sons Gamal and Alaa, former interior minister Habib el-Adly, former housing minister Ahmed El-Maghrabi, former tourism minister Zoheir Garana and former secretary for organizational affairs of the National Democratic Party Ahmed Ezz. Mubarak's ouster was followed by allegations of corruption against other government officials and senior politicians. On 28 February 2011, Egypt's top prosecutor ordered an assets freeze on Mubarak and his family. This was followed by arrest warrants, travel bans and asset freezes for other public figures, including former parliament speaker Fathi Sorour and former Shura Council speaker Safwat El Sherif. Arrest warrants were issued for financial misappropriations by public figures who left the country at the outbreak of the revolution, including former trade and industry minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid and businessman Hussein Salem; Salem was believed to have fled to Dubai. Trials of the accused officials began on 5 March 2011, when former interior minister Habib el-Adli appeared at the Giza Criminal Court in Cairo.\n\nIn March 2011 Abbud al-Zumar, one of Egypt's best-known political prisoners, was freed after 30 years. Founder and first emir of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, he was implicated in the 6 October 1981 assassination of Anwar Sadat.\n\nOn 24 May, Mubarak was ordered to stand trial on charges of premeditated murder of peaceful protestors during the revolution; if convicted, he could face the death penalty. The list of charges, released by the public prosecutor, was \"intentional murder, attempted killing of some demonstrators ... misuse of influence and deliberately wasting public funds and unlawfully making private financial gains and profits\".\n\nThe Egyptian and Tunisian revolutions sparked a wave of uprisings, with demonstrations spreading across the Middle East and North Africa. Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Yemen and Syria witnessed major protests, and minor demonstrations occurred in Iraq, Kuwait, Mauritania, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia and Sudan.\n\nThe Egyptian protests in Egypt were not centred around religion-based politics, but nationalism and social consciousness. Before the uprising, the best-organised and most-prominent opposition movements in the Arab world usually came from Islamist organisations with members who were motivated and ready to sacrifice. However, secular forces emerged from the revolution espousing principles shared with religious groups: freedom, social justice and dignity. Islamist organisations emerged with a greater freedom to operate. Although the cooperative, inter-faith revolution was no guarantee that partisan politics would not re-emerge in its wake, its success represented a change from the intellectual stagnation (created by decades of repression) which pitted modernity and Islamism against one another. Islamists and secularists are faced with new opportunities for dialogue on subjects such as the role of Islam and Sharia in society, freedom of speech and the impact of secularism on a predominantly-Muslim population.\n\nDespite the optimism surrounding the revolution, commentators expressed concern about the risk of increased power and influence for Islamist forces in the country and region and the difficulty of integrating different groups, ideologies and visions for the country. Journalist Caroline Glick wrote that the Egyptian revolution foreshadowed a rise in religious radicalism and support for terrorism, citing a 2010 Pew Opinion poll which found that Egyptians supported Islamists over modernizers by an over two-to-one margin. Another journalist, Shlomo Ben-Ami, said that Egypt's most formidable task was to refute the old paradigm of the Arab world which sees the only choices for regimes repressive, secular dictatorships or repressive theocracies. Ben-Ami noted that with Islam a central part of the society, any emergent regime was bound to be attuned to religion. In his view, a democracy which excluded all religion from public life (as in France) could succeed in Egypt but no genuine Arab democracy could disallow the participation of political Islam.\n\nSince the revolution Islamist parties (such as the Muslim Brotherhood) have strengthened in the democratic landscape, leading constitutional change, voter mobilization and protests. This was a concern of the secular and youth movements, who wanted elections to be held later so they could catch up to the already-well-organized groups. Elections were held in September 2011, with Liberty and Justice (the Muslim Brotherhood party) winning 48.5 percent of the vote. In 2014 in Upper Egypt, several newspapers reported that Upper Egypt wanted to secede from the rest of the country to improve its standard of living.\n\nEarly on New Year's Day 2011 a bomb exploded in front of an Alexandria church, killing 23 Coptic Christians. Egyptian officials said that \"foreign elements\" were behind the attack. Other sources claim that the bomb killed 21 people only and injured more than 70. Some Copts accused the Egyptian government of negligence; after the attack, many Christians protested in the streets (with Muslims joining later). After clashing with police, protesters in Alexandria and Cairo shouted slogans denouncing Mubarak's rule in support of unity between Christians and Muslims. Their sense of being let down by national security forces was cited as one of the first grievances sparking the 25 January uprising.\nOn 7 February a complaint was filed against Habib al-Adly (interior minister until Mubarak dissolved the government during the protests' early days), accusing him of directing the attack.\n\nEgyptian women have been participating actively in the revolution, in the same way that they played an active role in the strike movement in the few last years, in several cases pressurizing the men to join the strikes. In earlier protests in Egypt, women only accounted for about 10 per cent of the protesters, but on Tahrir Square they accounted for about 40 to 50 per cent in the days leading up to the fall of Mubarak. Women, with and without veils, participated in the defence of the square, set up barricades, led debates, shouted slogans and, together with the men, risked their lives. Some participated in the protests, were present in news clips and on Facebook forums and were part of the revolution's leadership during the Egyptian revolution. In Tahrir Square, female protesters (some with children) supported the protests. The diversity of the protesters in Tahrir Square was visible in the women who participated; many wore head scarves and other signs of religious conservatism, while others felt free to kiss a friend or smoke a cigarette in public. Women organised protests and reported events; female bloggers, such as Leil Zahra Mortada, risked abuse or imprisonment by keeping the world informed of events in Tahrir Square and elsewhere. Among those who died was Sally Zahran, who was beaten to death during one of the demonstrations. NASA reportedly planned to name one of its Mars exploration spacecraft in Zahran's honour.\n\nThe participation and contributions by Egyptian women to the protests were attributed to the fact that many (especially younger women) were better educated than previous generations and represent more than half of Egyptian university students. This is an empowering factor for women, who have become more present and active publicly. The advent of social media also provided a tool for women to become protest leaders.\n\nThe Egyptian Armed Forces initially enjoyed a better public reputation than the police did; the former was seen as a professional body protecting the country, and the latter was accused of systemic corruption and lawless violence. However, when the SCAF cracked down on protesters after becoming the \"de facto\" ruler of Egypt the military's popularity decreased. All four Egyptian presidents since the 1950s have a military background. Key Egyptian military personnel include defense minister Mohamed Hussein Tantawi and armed forces chief of staff Sami Hafez Enan. The Egyptian military numbers about 468,500 active personnel, plus a reserve of 479,000.\n\nAs head of Egypt's armed forces, Tantawi has been described as \"aged and change-resistant\" and is attached to the old regime. He has used his position as defense minister to oppose economic and political reform he saw as weakening central authority. Other key figures (Sami Hafez Anan chief among them) are younger, with closer connections to the U.S. and the Muslim Brotherhood. An important aspect of the relationship between the Egyptian and American military establishments is the $1.3 billion in annual military aid provided to Egypt, which pays for American-made military equipment and allows Egyptian officers to train in the U.S. Guaranteed this aid package, the ruling SCAF is resistant to reform. One analyst, conceding the military's conservatism, says it has no option but to facilitate democratisation. It will have to limit its political role to continue good relations with the West, and cannot restrict Islamist participation in a genuine democracy.\n\nThe military has led a violent crackdown on the Egyptian revolution since the fall of Mubarak. On 9 March 2011 military police violently dispersed a sit-in in Tahrir Square, arresting and torturing protesters. Seven female protesters were forcibly subjected to virginity tests. During the night of 8 April 2011 military police attacked a sit-in in Tahrir Square by protesters and sympathetic military officers, killing at least one. On 9 October the Egyptian military crushed protesters under armed personnel carriers and shot live ammunition at a demonstration in front of the Maspero television building, killing at least 24. On 19 November the military and police engaged in a continuous six-day battle with protestors in the streets of downtown Cairo and Alexandria, killing nearly 40 and injuring over 2,000. On 16 December 2011 military forces dispersed a sit-in at the Cabinet of Ministers building, killing 17. Soldiers fired live ammunition and attacked from the rooftop with Molotov cocktails, rocks and other missiles.\n\nForeign governments in the West (including the U.S.) regarded Mubarak as an important ally and supporter in the Israeli–Palestinian peace negotiations. After wars with Israel in 1948, 1956, 1967 and 1973, Egypt signed a peace treaty in 1979 (provoking controversy in the Arab world). According to the 1978 Camp David Accords (which led to the peace treaty), Israel and Egypt receive billions of dollars in aid annually from the United States; Egypt received over US$1.3 billion in military aid each year, in addition to economic and development assistance. According to Juan Cole many Egyptian youth felt ignored by Mubarak, feeling that he put the interests of the West ahead of theirs. The cooperation of the Egyptian regime in enforcing the blockade of the Gaza Strip was deeply unpopular with the Egyptian public.\n\nThe 6 April Youth Movement (Arabic: حركة شباب 6 أبريل) is an Egyptian Facebook group begun in spring 2008 to support workers in El-Mahalla El-Kubra, an industrial town, who were planning to strike on 6 April.\nActivists called on participants to wear black and stay home the day of the strike. Bloggers and citizen journalists used Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, blogs and other media tools to report on the strike, alert their networks about police activity, organize legal protection and draw attention to their efforts. \"The New York Times\" has called it the political Facebook group in Egypt with the most dynamic debates. In March 2012 it had 325,000 predominantly young and members, most previously inactive politically, whose concerns included free speech, nepotism in government and the country's stagnant economy. Their Facebook forum features intense and heated discussions, and is frequently updated.\n\nWe are all Khaled Said is a Facebook group which formed in the aftermath of Said's beating and death. The group attracted hundreds of thousands of members worldwide, playing a prominent role in spreading (and drawing attention to) the growing discontent. As the protests began, Google executive Wael Ghonim revealed that he was behind the account. He was later detained for a few days until the government was able to get a hold of certain information that they needed. Many questions were left around that subject, no one really understood what had actually happened or what has had been said. In a TV interview with SCAF members after the revolution, Abdul Rahman Mansour (an underground activist and media expert) was disclosed as sharing the account with Ghonim. Another online contribution was made by Asmaa Mahfouz, an activist who posted a video challenging people to publicly protest. Facebook had previously suspended the group because some administrators were using pseudonyms, a violation of the company's terms of service.\n\nSocial media has been used extensively. As one Egyptian activist tweeted during the protests, \"We use Facebook to schedule the protests, Twitter to coordinate, and YouTube to tell the world.\" Internet censorship has also been extensive, in some cases to the extent of taking entire nations virtually offline.\n\nFacebook, Twitter and blogging helped spread the uprising. Egyptian businessman Khaled Said was beaten to death by police in June 2010, reportedly in retaliation for a video he posted showing Egyptian police sharing the spoils of a drug bust. Wael Ghonim's memorial Facebook page to Said grew to over 400,000 followers, creating an online arena where protestors and those discontented with the government could gather and organise. The page called for protests on 25 January, later known as the \"Day of Wrath\". Hundreds of thousands of protestors flooded the streets to show their discontent with murder and corruption in their country. Ghonim was jailed on 28 January, and released 12 days later.\n\nEgyptian activist and 6 April Youth Movement member Asmaa Mahfouz posted a video urging the Egyptian people to meet her at Tahrir Square, rise up against the government and demand democracy. In the video, she spoke about four protesters who had immolated themselves in protest of 30 years of poverty and degradation. On 24 January Mahfouz posted another video relating efforts made in support of the protest, from printing posters to creating flyers. The videos were posted on Facebook and then YouTube. The day after her last video post, hundreds of thousands of Egyptians poured into the streets in protest.\n\nSince 25 January 2011, videos (including those of a badly-beaten Khaled Said, disproving police claims that he had choked to death), tweets and Facebook comments have kept the world abreast of the situation in Egypt. Amir Ali documents the ways in which social media was used by Egyptian activists, Egyptian celebrities and political figures abroad to fan the protests.\n\nDemocracy Now! journalist Sharif Abdel Kouddous provided live coverage and tweets from Tahrir Square during the protests, and was credited with using social media to increase awareness of the protests. The role of social media in the Egyptian uprising was debated in the first edition of the Dubai Debates: \"Mark Zuckerberg – the new hero of the Arab people?\" Amir Ali has argued that, based in part on the Egyptian revolution, social media may be an effective tool in developing nations.\n\nCritics who downplay the influence of social networking on the Arab Spring cite several points:\n\nSome protesters discouraged the use of social media. A widely circulated pamphlet by an anonymous activist group titled \"How to Protest Intelligently\" (Arabic: كيف للاحتجاج بذكاء؟), asked readers \"not to use Twitter or Facebook or other websites because they are all being monitored by the Ministry of the Interior\".\n\nTelevision, particularly live coverage by \"Al Jazeera English\" and BBC News, was important to the revolution; the cameras provided exposure, preventing mass violence by the government in Tahir Square (in contrast to the lack of live coverage and more-widespread violence in Libya). Its use was important in order to portray the violence of the Egyptian government, as well as, building support for the revolution through several different mediums. On one front was social media giving minute by minute updates via YouTube, Facebook and Twitter, and in the other hand was the use of the mainstream media to report to a wider audience about the overall developments occurring in Egypt. The ability of protesters to focus their demonstrations on a single area (with live coverage) was fundamental in Egypt but impossible in Libya, Bahrain and Syria, irrespective of social-media use. A social-media expert launched a network of messages with the hashtag #jan25 on 11 February 2011, when Mubarak's resignation was announced.\n\nSocial media helped secure solidarity for the revolutionaries from people outside of Egypt. This is evident through movements like the \"March of Millions\", \"Voice of Egypt Abroad\", \"Egyptians Abroad in Support of Egypt\" and \"New United Arab States\", who had their inception during the revolution inside the realms of Twitter and Facebook.\n\nJournalism scholar Heather Ford studied the use of infoboxes and cleanup templates in the Wikipedia article regarding the revolution. Ford claims that infoboxes and cleanup tags were used as objects of \"bespoken-code\" by Wikipedia editors. By using these elements, editors shaped the news narrative in the first 18 days of the revolution. Ford used the discussion page and the history of edits to the page. She shows how political cartoons were removed, and how the number of casualties became a source of heated debate. Her research exemplifies how editors coordinated and prioritized work on the article, but also how political events are represented through collaborative journalism.\n\nDuring the early morning hours of 28 January the Mubarak regime shut down internet and cell phone networks in the whole country. This media shutdown was likely one of the reasons why the numbers of protestors exploded on 28 January. \n\nWhile the regime disrupted the media, people needed to engage in face-to-face communication on a local level, which the regime could not monitor or control. In such a situation it is more likely that radicals will influence their neighbors, who are not able to see the public opinion displayed in social media, therefore these people are then more likely to also engage in civil unrest. \n\nThis vicious circle can be explained through a threshold model of collective behavior, which states that people are more likely to engage in risky actions if other people inside their networks (neighbors, friends, etc.) have taken action. Radicals have a small threshold and are more likely to form new networks during an information blackout, influencing the people.\n\nDisrupting the media and communication had 2 main results: it increased the local mobilization of people and empowered radicals who influenced their surroundings, which resulted in an increase in protests. \n\nDuring 28 January the increased local mobilization pushed a large amount of apolitical Egyptians into action, either to look after their friends and family in the absence of mobile communication or to complain about the shutdown, resulting in large protests not only in Cairo. Meanwhile the Mubarak regime was unable to communicate a possible threat to the protestors via social media and was therefore unable to dissuade the crowds through this mean, which spread the protests further.\n\nThe 25 January Revolution and the fall of Hosni Mubarak the following month ushered in a new artistic era reflecting a changed social and political environment; \"the revolution triggered a new public culture\". Since its beginning, artists played a significant role in the protests; street art and music (\"electro\" or \"techno sha'bi\") were used to craft a public culture. Artists documented and captured the essence of the revolution, distributing their art through online and face-to-face social networks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142534", "title": "Electron hole", "text": "Electron hole\n\nIn physics, chemistry, and electronic engineering, an electron hole (often simply called a hole) is the lack of an electron at a position where one could exist in an atom or atomic lattice. Since in a normal atom or crystal lattice the negative charge of the electrons is balanced by the positive charge of the atomic nuclei, the absence of an electron leaves a net positive charge at the hole's location. Holes are not actually particles, but rather quasiparticles; they are different from the positron, which is the antiparticle of the electron. (See also Dirac Sea.) Werner Heisenberg developed the concept of a hole in 1931.\n\nHoles in a metal or semiconductor crystal lattice can move through the lattice as electrons can, and act similarly to positively-charged particles. They play an important role in the operation of semiconductor devices such as transistors, diodes and integrated circuits. If an electron is excited into a higher state it leaves a hole in its old state. This meaning is used in Auger electron spectroscopy (and other x-ray techniques), in computational chemistry, and to explain the low electron-electron scattering-rate in crystals (metals, semiconductors).\n\nIn crystals, electronic band structure calculations lead to an effective mass for the electrons, which is typically negative at the top of a band. The negative mass is an unintuitive concept, and in these situations a more familiar picture is found by considering a positive charge with a positive mass.\n\nIn solid-state physics, an electron hole (usually referred to simply as a hole) is the absence of an electron from a full valence band. A hole is essentially a way to conceptualize the interactions of the electrons within a nearly \"full\" valence band of a crystal lattice, which is \"missing\" just a few electrons. In some ways, the behavior of a hole within a semiconductor crystal lattice is comparable to that of the bubble in a full bottle of water.\n\nHole conduction in a valence band can be explained by the following analogy. Imagine a row of people seated in an auditorium, where there are no spare chairs. Someone in the middle of the row wants to leave, so he jumps over the back of the seat into an empty row, and walks out. The empty row is analogous to the conduction band, and the person walking out is analogous to a free electron.\n\nNow imagine someone else comes along and wants to sit down. The empty row has a poor view; so he does not want to sit there. Instead, a person in the crowded row moves into the empty seat the first person left behind. The empty seat moves one spot closer to the edge and the person waiting to sit down. The next person follows, and the next, et cetera. One could say that the empty seat moves towards the edge of the row. Once the empty seat reaches the edge, the new person can sit down.\n\nIn the process everyone in the row has moved along. If those people were negatively charged (like electrons), this movement would constitute conduction. If the seats themselves were positively charged, then only the vacant seat would be positive. This is a very simple model of how hole conduction works.\n\nInstead of analyzing the movement of an empty state in the valence band as the movement of many separate electrons, a single equivalent imaginary particle called a \"hole\" is considered. In an applied electric field, the electrons move in one direction, corresponding to the hole moving in the other. If a hole associates itself with a neutral atom, that atom loses an electron and becomes positive. Therefore, the hole is taken to have positive charge of +e, precisely the opposite of the electron charge.\n\nIn reality, due to the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics, combined with the energy levels available in the crystal, the hole is not localizable to a single position as described in the previous example. Rather, the positive charge which represents the hole spans an area in the crystal lattice covering many hundreds of unit cells. This is equivalent to being unable to tell which broken bond corresponds to the \"missing\" electron. Conduction band electrons are similarly delocalized.\n\nThe analogy above is quite simplified, and cannot explain why holes create an opposite effect to electrons in the Hall effect and Seebeck effect. A more precise and detailed explanation follows.\n\n\nA dispersion relation is the relationship between wavevector (k-vector) and energy in a band, part of the electronic band structure. In quantum mechanics, the electrons are waves, and energy is the wave frequency. A localized electron is a wavepacket, and the motion of an electron is given by the formula for the group velocity of a wave. An electric field affects an electron by gradually shifting all the wavevectors in the wavepacket, and the electron moves because its wave group velocity changes. Therefore, again, the way an electron responds to forces is entirely determined by its dispersion relation. An electron floating in space has the dispersion relation \"E\"=ℏ\"k\"/(2\"m\"), where \"m\" is the (real) electron mass and ℏ is reduced Planck constant. Near the bottom of the conduction band of a semiconductor, the dispersion relation is instead \"E\"=ℏ\"k\"/(2\"m\") (\"m\" is the \"effective mass\"), so a conduction-band electron responds to forces \"as if\" it had the mass \"m\".\n\n\nThe dispersion relation near the top of the valence band is \"E\"=ℏk/(2\"m\") with \"negative\" effective mass. So electrons near the top of the valence band behave like they have negative mass. When a force pulls the electrons to the right, these electrons actually move left. This is solely due to the shape of the valence band, and is unrelated to whether the band is full or empty. If you could somehow empty out the valence band and just put one electron near the valence band maximum (an unstable situation), this electron would move the \"wrong way\" in response to forces.\n\n\nA perfectly full band always has zero current. One way to think about this fact is that the electron states near the top of the band have negative effective mass, and those near the bottom of the band have positive effective mass, so the net motion is exactly zero. If an otherwise-almost-full valence band has a state \"without\" an electron in it, we say that this state is occupied by a hole. There is a mathematical shortcut for calculating the current due to every electron in the whole valence band: Start with zero current (the total if the band were full), and \"subtract\" the current due to the electrons that \"would\" be in each hole state if it wasn't a hole. Since \"subtracting\" the current caused by a \"negative\" charge in motion is the same as \"adding\" the current caused by a \"positive\" charge moving on the same path, the mathematical shortcut is to pretend that each hole state is carrying a positive charge, while ignoring every other electron state in the valence band.\n\n\nThis fact follows from the discussion and definition above. This is an example where the auditorium analogy above is misleading. When a person moves left in a full auditorium, an empty seat moves right. But in this section we are imagining how electrons move through k-space, not real space, and the effect of a force is to move all the electrons through k-space in the same direction at the same time. In this context, a better analogy is a bubble underwater in a river: The bubble moves the same direction as the water, not opposite.\n\nSince force = mass × acceleration, a negative-effective-mass electron near the top of the valence band would move the opposite direction as a positive-effective-mass electron near the bottom of the conduction band, in response to a given electric or magnetic force. Therefore, a hole moves this way as well.\n\n\nFrom the above, a hole (1) carries a positive charge, and (2) responds to electric and magnetic fields as if it had a positive charge and positive mass. (The latter is because a particle with positive charge and positive mass responds to electric and magnetic fields in the same way as a particle with negative charge and negative mass.) That explains why holes can be treated in all situations as ordinary positively charged quasiparticles.\n\nIn some semiconductors, such as silicon, the hole's effective mass is dependent on direction (anisotropic), however a value averaged over all directions can be used for some macroscopic calculations.\n\nIn most semiconductors, the effective mass of a hole is much larger than that of an electron. This results in lower mobility for holes under the influence of an electric field and this may slow down the speed of the electronic device made of that semiconductor. This is one major reason for adopting electrons as the primary charge carriers, whenever possible in semiconductor devices, rather than holes. Also, why NMOS logic is faster than PMOS logic.\n\nHowever, in many semiconductor devices, both electrons \"and\" holes play an essential role. Examples include p–n diodes, bipolar transistors, and CMOS logic.\n\nAn alternate meaning for the term electron hole is used in computational chemistry. In coupled cluster methods, the ground (or lowest energy) state of a molecule is interpreted as the \"vacuum state\"—conceptually, in this state there are no electrons. In this scheme, the absence of an electron from a normally filled state is called a \"hole\" and is treated as a particle, and the presence of an electron in a normally empty state is simply called an \"electron\". This terminology is almost identical to that used in solid-state physics.\n\n"}
{"id": "44669727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44669727", "title": "Embryokine", "text": "Embryokine\n\nEmbryokines (Greek: \"embryuon\" \"embryo\" + \"kinōs\" \"movement\") are regulatory molecules produced by the reproductive tract that modulate embryonic development.\n\nAmong the molecules that function as embryokines are insulin-like growth factor-1, cytokines (e.g., colony stimulating factor 2), WNT regulatory proteins (i.e., DKK1 and members of the transforming growth factor family (e.g., activin).\n"}
{"id": "3241134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3241134", "title": "Emma Livry", "text": "Emma Livry\n\nEmma Livry (born as Jeanne Emma Emarot or Emma Marie Emarot; 24 September 1842 – 26 July 1863) was one of the last ballerinas of the Romantic ballet era and a protégée of Marie Taglioni. She died from complications after burn injuries sustained when her costume caught fire during a rehearsal.\n\nLivry was the illegitimate daughter of Célestine Emarot, a ballet dancer, and Baron Charles de Chassiron, which prompted the following rhyming verse:\n\nShe studied dancing under Madame Dominique and attended the Paris Opera School. Her career was promoted by her mother's lover at the time, Vicomte Ferdinand de Montguyon. On 19 October 1858, at the age of sixteen, she made her debut with the Paris Opera Ballet at the Salle Le Peletier as the sylph in \"La Sylphide\". Her talent brought her fame and she became a widely respected ballerina.\n\nMontguyon prevailed upon the director of the Opera to change the programme so that Marie Taglioni (who originated the role) would see Livry in \"La Sylphide\" when she visited. Taglioni decided to stay on in Paris to teach the girl, who reminded her of herself as a young woman. She choreographed for Livry the title-role of Farfalla (Butterfly) in \"Le Papillon\", the only full-length ballet composed by Jacques Offenbach. The sculptor Jean-Auguste Barre created a figurine of Livry in this role in bronze and bisque versions.\n\nPaul Smith wrote in \"\":\n\nOn 15 November 1862, Livry was rehearsing the title role of Fenella, a mime part and the title role in Auber's opera \"La muette de Portici\". Making her second-act entrance, she shook out her skirts, which caught fire on a gaslight. The accident was avoidable: a method of fire-proofing costumes was available in this period, but Livry and most female performers of the period were opposed to it because it discolored and stiffened fabrics.\n\nIn flames, she ran across the stage three times before she was caught and the fire extinguished with the help of firemen and other dancers. Her burns were more extensive than deep. She had clasped the burning fabric to her torso out of modesty. Her face and breasts were undamaged. According to the doctor in attendance, her thighs, waist, back, shoulders and arms were burned, and her stays were burned on. She tried to pray. Taglioni, who was watching the rehearsal, rubbed make-up grease into her wounds in the mistaken belief that it would act as ointment. She suffered for months, yet remained opposed to fire-proofed skirts: \"Yes, they are, as you say, less dangerous, but should I ever return to the stage, I would never think of wearing them – they are so ugly.\"\n\nIn 1863, she was moved from her home in Paris to Neuilly-sur-Seine. \nHowever, her wounds re-opened and she succumbed to septicæmia. Montguyon was with her when she died. She was only 20 years old. After a funeral at Notre Dame de Lorette in Paris, she was buried in the Cimetière de Montmartre. The surviving scraps of her costume can be seen in the Musée de l'Opéra in Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22092879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22092879", "title": "Ending Aging", "text": "Ending Aging\n\nEnding Aging: The Rejuvenation Breakthroughs that Could Reverse Human Aging in Our Lifetime is a 2007 book written by Aubrey de Grey, a biomedical gerontologist, with his research assistant Michael Rae. \"Ending Aging\" describes de Grey's proposal for eliminating aging as a cause of debilitation and death in humans, and restoring the body to an indefinitely youthful state, a project plan that he calls the \"Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence\", or \"SENS\". De Grey argues that defeating aging is feasible, possibly within a few decades, and he outlines steps that can be taken to hasten the development of regenerative medicine treatments that will save lives.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7326801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7326801", "title": "Equivalence group", "text": "Equivalence group\n\nAn equivalence group is a set of unspecified cells that have the same developmental potential or ability to adopt various fates. Our current understanding suggests that equivalence groups are limited to cells of the same ancestry, also known as sibling cells. Often, cells of an equivalence group adopt different fates from one another.\n\nEquivalence groups assume various potential fates in two general, non-mutually exclusive ways. One mechanism, induction, occurs when a signal originating from outside of the equivalence group specifies a subset of the naïve cells. Another mode, known as lateral inhibition, arises when a signal within an equivalence group causes one cell to adopt a dominant fate while others in the group are inhibited from doing so. In many examples of equivalence groups, both induction and lateral inhibition are used to define patterns of distinct cell types. \n\nCells of an equivalence group that do not receive a signal adopt a default fate. Alternatively, cells that receive a signal take on different fates. At a certain point, the fates of cells within an equivalence group become irreversibly determined, thus they lose their multipotent potential. The following provides examples of equivalence groups studied in nematodes and ascidians.\n\nA classic example of an equivalence group is the vulva precursor cells (VPCs) of nematodes. In \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" self-fertilized eggs exit the body through the vulva. This organ develops from a subset of cell of an equivalence group consisting of six VPCs, P3.p-P8.p, which lie ventrally along the anterior-posterior axis. In this example a single overlying somatic cells, the anchor cell, induces nearby VPCs to take on vulva fates 1° (P6.p) and 2° (P5.p and P7.p). VPCs that are not induced form the 3° lineage (P3.p, P4.p and P8.p), which make epidermal cells that fuse to a large syncytial epidermis (see image).\n\nThe six VPCs form an equivalence group because all of the six cells are competent to take on any of the available fates (1°, 2°, and 3°) dependent on their proximity to the anchor cell. Ablation experiments indicate that all VPCs are able to adopt vulva fates. For example, if the P6.p cell that normally becomes 1° is ablated then the VPC closest to the anchor cell, either P5.p or P7.p, assumes the 1° fate. Furthermore, if all VPCs are destroyed except the most anterior P3.p cell then the anchor cell designates this cell the 1° fate. However, if the anchor cell is killed, in the absence of an inductive signal, then all of the VPCs assume the default 3° lineage.\n\nThe anchor cell directly induces the vulva fates by secreting the epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like ligand LIN-3. The P6.p cell receives the LIN-3 signal via the receptor tyrosine kinase LET-23 (P5.p and P7.p also receive LIN-3 but to a lesser extent). Activation of LET-23 in P6.p results in the activation of LIN-12 (Notch) in P5.p and P7.p. Experimental evidence shows that LIN-12 is necessary and sufficient for the formation of the 2° fate. Through lateral inhibition LIN-12 prevents the P5.p and P7.p cells from adopting the 1° lineage. Thus, in this example both inductive EGF signaling and lateral Notch activation patterns the VPC equivalence group.\n\nThe larvae of ascidians (sea squirts) contain a pair of sensory pigment cells known as the otolith and ocellus. The otolith is used to sense gravity, whereas the ocellus responds to light. During embryogenesis the otolith and ocellus develop from two bilateral equivalent precursors. Either the left or right pigment precursor cell has equal probability of developing into the otolith or ocellus. The decision to adopt either fate is determined after neural tube closure during the early tailbud stage (see image), via a poorly defined mechanism of induction. \n\nDuring normal development, after neural tube closure, the pigment precursors align dorsally along the anterior-posterior axis of the neural tube. Whichever cell aligns anteriorly will become the otolith, while the posterior cell will form the ocellus. In the absence of cell-cell interactions both cells develop into ocelli, which is the default fate.\n\nTo elucidate whether the fates of the otolith and ocellus are determined in the early embryo or after the precursors align during neural tube closure, ablation and drug treatment techniques were used in the ascidian species \"Halocythia roretzi\". \n\nCells that are labeled with fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran (FDX) can be selectively photoablated by fluorescent excitation. When one FDX labeled pigment precursor cells is photoablated during the mid-neurula stage (15 hrs) the other will almost always develop into an ocellus. However, if the ablations are performed during the late tailbud stage (22.5 hrs) then the remaining cell has an equal likelihood of becoming an otolith or ocellus. \n\nInhibiting cell division and morphogenesis with cytochalasin B is another method used to determine when the pigment precursor equivalence group is specified. Cytochalasin treatment of early tailbud stage embryos (17 hrs), while the two bilateral cells are still separated, results in both cells becoming ocelli. When the drug was used after the two cells aligned at the dorsal midline, the anterior cell developed into the otolith and the posterior cell became the ocellus without exception. Both experiments suggest that fates of the pigment precursor cells are irreversibly determined by approximately the mid-tailbud stage (21 hrs).\n\nEquivalence groups have also been described in the ganglion mother cells in grasshopper and the O/P teloblasts in the leech. Like other instances of equivalence groups, progeny cells are born equivalent and become specified through cell interactions. Equivalence groups are a common theme in the development of many organisms from diverse phyla.\n\n"}
{"id": "9737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9737", "title": "Eugenics", "text": "Eugenics\n\nEugenics (; from Greek εὐγενής \"eugenes\" 'well-born' from εὖ \"eu\", 'good, well' and γένος \"genos\", 'race, stock, kin') is a set of beliefs and practices that aims at improving the genetic quality of a human population. The exact definition of \"eugenics\" has been a matter of debate since the term was coined by Francis Galton in 1883. The concept predates this coinage, with Plato suggesting applying the principles of selective breeding to humans around 400 BCE.\n\nFrederick Osborn's 1937 journal article \"Development of a Eugenic Philosophy\" framed it as a social philosophy—that is, a philosophy with implications for social order. That definition is not universally accepted. Osborn advocated for higher rates of sexual reproduction among people with desired traits (positive eugenics), or reduced rates of sexual reproduction and sterilization of people with less-desired or undesired traits (negative eugenics).\n\nAlternatively, gene selection rather than \"people selection\" has recently been made possible through advances in genome editing, leading to what is sometimes called new eugenics, also known as neo-eugenics, consumer eugenics, or liberal eugenics.\n\nWhile eugenic principles have been practiced as far back in world history as ancient Greece, the modern history of eugenics began in the early 20th century when a popular eugenics movement emerged in the United Kingdom and spread to many countries including the United States, Canada and most European countries. In this period, eugenic ideas were espoused across the political spectrum. Consequently, many countries adopted eugenic policies with the intent to improve the quality of their populations' genetic stock. Such programs included both \"positive\" measures, such as encouraging individuals deemed particularly \"fit\" to reproduce, and \"negative\" measures such as marriage prohibitions and forced sterilization of people deemed unfit for reproduction. People deemed unfit to reproduce often included people with mental or physical disabilities, people who scored in the low ranges of different IQ tests, criminals and deviants, and members of disfavored minority groups. The eugenics movement became negatively associated with Nazi Germany and the Holocaust when many of the defendants at the Nuremberg trials attempted to justify their human rights abuses by claiming there was little difference between the Nazi eugenics programs and the U.S. eugenics programs. In the decades following World War II, with the institution of human rights, many countries gradually began to abandon eugenics policies, although some Western countries, among them the United States and Sweden, continued to carry out forced sterilizations.\n\nSince the 1980s and 1990s, when new assisted reproductive technology procedures became available such as gestational surrogacy (available since 1985), preimplantation genetic diagnosis (available since 1989), and cytoplasmic transfer (first performed in 1996), fear has emerged about a possible revival of eugenics.\n\nA major criticism of eugenics policies is that, regardless of whether \"negative\" or \"positive\" policies are used, they are susceptible to abuse because the criteria of selection are determined by whichever group is in political power at the time. Furthermore, negative eugenics in particular is considered by many to be a violation of basic human rights, which include the right to reproduction. Another criticism is that eugenic policies eventually lead to a loss of genetic diversity, resulting in inbreeding depression due to lower genetic variation.\n\nThe concept of positive eugenics to produce better human beings has existed at least since Plato suggested selective mating to produce a guardian class. In Sparta, every Spartan child was inspected by the council of elders, the Gerousia, which determined if the child was fit to live or not. In the early years of ancient Rome, a Roman father was obliged by law to immediately kill his child if they were physically disabled. Among the ancient Germanic tribes, people who were cowardly, unwarlike or \"stained with abominable vices\" were put to death, usually by being drowned in swamps.\nThe first formal negative eugenics, that is a legal provision against the birth of allegedly inferior human beings, was promulgated in Western European culture by the Christian Council of Agde in 506, which forbade marriage between cousins.\n\nThis idea was also promoted by William Goodell (1829–1894) who advocated the castration and spaying of the insane.\n\nThe idea of a modern project of improving the human population through a statistical understanding of heredity used to encourage good breeding was originally developed by Francis Galton and, initially, was closely linked to Darwinism and his theory of natural selection. Galton had read his half-cousin Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, which sought to explain the development of plant and animal species, and desired to apply it to humans. Based on his biographical studies, Galton believed that desirable human qualities were hereditary traits, though Darwin strongly disagreed with this elaboration of his theory. In 1883, one year after Darwin's death, Galton gave his research a name: \"eugenics\". With the introduction of genetics, eugenics became associated with genetic determinism, the belief that human character is entirely or in the majority caused by genes, unaffected by education or living conditions. Many of the early geneticists were not Darwinians, and evolution theory was not needed for eugenics policies based on genetic determinism. Throughout its recent history, eugenics has remained controversial.\n\nEugenics became an academic discipline at many colleges and universities and received funding from many sources. Organizations were formed to win public support and sway opinion towards responsible eugenic values in parenthood, including the British Eugenics Education Society of 1907 and the American Eugenics Society of 1921. Both sought support from leading clergymen and modified their message to meet religious ideals. In 1909 the Anglican clergymen William Inge and James Peile both wrote for the British Eugenics Education Society. Inge was an invited speaker at the 1921 International Eugenics Conference, which was also endorsed by the Roman Catholic Archbishop of New York Patrick Joseph Hayes.\n\nThree International Eugenics Conferences presented a global venue for eugenists with meetings in 1912 in London, and in 1921 and 1932 in New York City. Eugenic policies were first implemented in the early 1900s in the United States. It also took root in France, Germany, and Great Britain. Later, in the 1920s and 1930s, the eugenic policy of sterilizing certain mental patients was implemented in other countries including Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Japan and Sweden.\n\nIn addition to being practiced in a number of countries, eugenics was internationally organized through the International Federation of Eugenics Organizations. Its scientific aspects were carried on through research bodies such as the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Anthropology, Human Heredity, and Eugenics, the Cold Spring Harbour Carnegie Institution for Experimental Evolution, and the Eugenics Record Office. Politically, the movement advocated measures such as sterilization laws. In its moral dimension, eugenics rejected the doctrine that all human beings are born equal and redefined moral worth purely in terms of genetic fitness. Its racist elements included pursuit of a pure \"Nordic race\" or \"Aryan\" genetic pool and the eventual elimination of \"unfit\" races.\n\nEarly critics of the philosophy of eugenics included the American sociologist Lester Frank Ward, the English writer G. K. Chesterton, the German-American anthropologist Franz Boas, who argued that advocates of eugenics greatly over-estimate the influence of biology, and Scottish tuberculosis pioneer and author Halliday Sutherland. Ward's 1913 article \"Eugenics, Euthenics, and Eudemics\", Chesterton's 1917 book \"\", and Boas' 1916 article \"\" (published in \"The Scientific Monthly\") were all harshly critical of the rapidly growing movement. Sutherland identified eugenists as a major obstacle to the eradication and cure of tuberculosis in his 1917 address \"Consumption: Its Cause and Cure\", and criticism of eugenists and Neo-Malthusians in his 1921 book \"Birth Control\" led to a writ for libel from the eugenist Marie Stopes. Several biologists were also antagonistic to the eugenics movement, including Lancelot Hogben. Other biologists such as J. B. S. Haldane and R. A. Fisher expressed skepticism in the belief that sterilization of \"defectives\" would lead to the disappearance of undesirable genetic traits.\n\nAmong institutions, the Catholic Church was an opponent of state-enforced sterilizations. Attempts by the Eugenics Education Society to persuade the British government to legalize voluntary sterilization were opposed by Catholics and by the Labour Party. The American Eugenics Society initially gained some Catholic supporters, but Catholic support declined following the 1930 papal encyclical \"Casti connubii\". In this, Pope Pius XI explicitly condemned sterilization laws: \"Public magistrates have no direct power over the bodies of their subjects; therefore, where no crime has taken place and there is no cause present for grave punishment, they can never directly harm, or tamper with the integrity of the body, either for the reasons of eugenics or for any other reason.\"\n\nAs a social movement, eugenics reached its greatest popularity in the early decades of the 20th century, when it was practiced around the world and promoted by governments, institutions, and influential individuals. Many countries enacted various eugenics policies, including: genetic screenings, birth control, promoting differential birth rates, marriage restrictions, segregation (both racial segregation and sequestering the mentally ill), compulsory sterilization, forced abortions or forced pregnancies, ultimately culminating in genocide.\n\nThe scientific reputation of eugenics started to decline in the 1930s, a time when Ernst Rüdin used eugenics as a justification for the racial policies of Nazi Germany. Adolf Hitler had praised and incorporated eugenic ideas in \"Mein Kampf\" in 1925 and emulated eugenic legislation for the sterilization of \"defectives\" that had been pioneered in the United States once he took power. Some common early 20th century eugenics methods involved identifying and classifying individuals and their families, including the poor, mentally ill, blind, deaf, developmentally disabled, promiscuous women, homosexuals, and racial groups (such as the Roma and Jews in Nazi Germany) as \"degenerate\" or \"unfit\", and therefore led to segregation, institutionalization, sterilization, euthanasia, and even mass murder. The Nazi practice of euthanasia was carried out on hospital patients in the Aktion T4 centers such as Hartheim Castle.\n\nBy the end of World War II, many discriminatory eugenics laws were abandoned, having become associated with Nazi Germany. H. G. Wells, who had called for \"the sterilization of failures\" in 1904, stated in his 1940 book \"The Rights of Man: Or What are we fighting for?\" that among the human rights, which he believed should be available to all people, was \"a prohibition on mutilation, sterilization, torture, and any bodily punishment\". After World War II, the practice of \"imposing measures intended to prevent births within [a national, ethnical, racial or religious] group\" fell within the definition of the new international crime of genocide, set out in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union also proclaims \"the prohibition of eugenic practices, in particular those aiming at selection of persons\". In spite of the decline in discriminatory eugenics laws, some government mandated sterilizations continued into the 21st century. During the ten years President Alberto Fujimori led Peru from 1990 to 2000, 2,000 persons were allegedly involuntarily sterilized. China maintained its one-child policy until 2015 as well as a suite of other eugenics based legislation to reduce population size and manage fertility rates of different populations. In 2007 the United Nations reported coercive sterilizations and hysterectomies in Uzbekistan. During the years 2005 to 2013, nearly one-third of the 144 California prison inmates who were sterilized did not give lawful consent to the operation.\n\nDevelopments in genetic, genomic, and reproductive technologies at the end of the 20th century have raised numerous questions regarding the ethical status of eugenics, effectively creating a resurgence of interest in the subject.\nSome, such as UC Berkeley sociologist Troy Duster, claim that modern genetics is a back door to eugenics. This view is shared by White House Assistant Director for Forensic Sciences, Tania Simoncelli, who stated in a 2003 publication by the Population and Development Program at Hampshire College that advances in pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) are moving society to a \"new era of eugenics\", and that, unlike the Nazi eugenics, modern eugenics is consumer driven and market based, \"where children are increasingly regarded as made-to-order consumer products\". In a 2006 newspaper article, Richard Dawkins said that discussion regarding eugenics was inhibited by the shadow of Nazi misuse, to the extent that some scientists would not admit that breeding humans for certain abilities is at all possible. He believes that it is not physically different from breeding domestic animals for traits such as speed or herding skill. Dawkins felt that enough time had elapsed to at least ask just what the ethical differences were between breeding for ability versus training athletes or forcing children to take music lessons, though he could think of persuasive reasons to draw the distinction.\n\nLee Kuan Yew, the Founding Father of Singapore, started promoting eugenics as early as 1983.\n\nIn October 2015, the United Nations' International Bioethics Committee wrote that the ethical problems of human genetic engineering should not be confused with the ethical problems of the 20th century eugenics movements. However, it is still problematic because it challenges the idea of human equality and opens up new forms of discrimination and stigmatization for those who do not want, or cannot afford, the technology.\n\nTranshumanism is often associated with eugenics, although most transhumanists holding similar views nonetheless distance themselves from the term \"eugenics\" (preferring \"germinal choice\" or \"reprogenetics\") to avoid having their position confused with the discredited theories and practices of early-20th-century eugenic movements.\n\nPrenatal screening can be considered a form of contemporary eugenics because it may lead to abortions of children with undesirable traits.\n\nThe term eugenics and its modern field of study were first formulated by Francis Galton in 1883, drawing on the recent work of his half-cousin Charles Darwin. Galton published his observations and conclusions in his book \"Inquiries into Human Faculty and Its Development\".\n\nThe origins of the concept began with certain interpretations of Mendelian inheritance and the theories of August Weismann. The word \"eugenics\" is derived from the Greek word \"eu\" (\"good\" or \"well\") and the suffix \"-genēs\" (\"born\"), and was coined by Galton in 1883 to replace the word \"stirpiculture\", which he had used previously but which had come to be mocked due to its perceived sexual overtones. Galton defined eugenics as \"the study of all agencies under human control which can improve or impair the racial quality of future generations\".\n\nHistorically, the term eugenics has referred to everything from prenatal care for mothers to forced sterilization and euthanasia. To population geneticists, the term has included the avoidance of inbreeding without altering allele frequencies; for example, J. B. S. Haldane wrote that \"the motor bus, by breaking up inbred village communities, was a powerful eugenic agent.\" Debate as to what exactly counts as eugenics continues today.\n\nEdwin Black, journalist and author of \"War Against the Weak\", claims eugenics is often deemed a pseudoscience because what is defined as a genetic improvement of a desired trait is often deemed a cultural choice rather than a matter that can be determined through objective scientific inquiry. The most disputed aspect of eugenics has been the definition of \"improvement\" of the human gene pool, such as what is a beneficial characteristic and what is a defect. Historically, this aspect of eugenics was tainted with scientific racism and pseudoscience.\n\nEarly eugenists were mostly concerned with factors of perceived intelligence that often correlated strongly with social class. Some of these early eugenists include Karl Pearson and Walter Weldon, who worked on this at the University College London.\n\nEugenics also had a place in medicine. In his lecture \"Darwinism, Medical Progress and Eugenics\", Karl Pearson said that everything concerning eugenics fell into the field of medicine. He basically placed the two words as equivalents. He was supported in part by the fact that Francis Galton, the father of eugenics, also had medical training.\n\nEugenic policies have been conceptually divided into two categories. Positive eugenics is aimed at encouraging reproduction among the genetically advantaged; for example, the reproduction of the intelligent, the healthy, and the successful. Possible approaches include financial and political stimuli, targeted demographic analyses, \"in vitro\" fertilization, egg transplants, and cloning. The movie Gattaca provides a fictional example of a dystopian society that uses eugenics to decided what you are capable of and your place in the world. Negative eugenics aimed to eliminate, through sterilization or segregation, those deemed physically, mentally, or morally \"undesirable\". This includes abortions, sterilization, and other methods of family planning. Both positive and negative eugenics can be coercive; abortion for fit women, for example, was illegal in Nazi Germany.\n\nJon Entine claims that eugenics simply means \"good genes\" and using it as synonym for genocide is an \"all-too-common distortion of the social history of genetics policy in the United States.\" According to Entine, eugenics developed out of the Progressive Era and not \"Hitler's twisted Final Solution\".\n\nAccording to Richard Lynn, eugenics may be divided into two main categories based on the ways in which the methods of eugenics can be applied.\n\nThe first major challenge to conventional eugenics based upon genetic inheritance was made in 1915 by Thomas Hunt Morgan. He demonstrated the event of genetic mutation occurring outside of inheritance involving the discovery of the hatching of a fruit fly (\"Drosophila melanogaster\") with white eyes from a family with red eyes. Morgan claimed that this demonstrated that major genetic changes occurred outside of inheritance and that the concept of eugenics based upon genetic inheritance was not completely scientifically accurate. Additionally, Morgan criticized the view that subjective traits, such as intelligence and criminality, were caused by heredity because he believed that the definitions of these traits varied and that accurate work in genetics could only be done when the traits being studied were accurately defined. Despite Morgan's public rejection of eugenics, much of his genetic research was absorbed by eugenics.\n\nThe heterozygote test is used for the early detection of recessive hereditary diseases, allowing for couples to determine if they are at risk of passing genetic defects to a future child. The goal of the test is to estimate the likelihood of passing the hereditary disease to future descendants.\n\nRecessive traits can be severely reduced, but never eliminated unless the complete genetic makeup of all members of the pool was known, as aforementioned. As only very few undesirable traits, such as Huntington's disease, are dominant, it could be argued from certain perspectives that the practicality of \"eliminating\" traits is quite low.\n\nThere are examples of eugenic acts that managed to lower the prevalence of recessive diseases, although not influencing the prevalence of heterozygote carriers of those diseases. The elevated prevalence of certain genetically transmitted diseases among the Ashkenazi Jewish population (Tay–Sachs, cystic fibrosis, Canavan's disease, and Gaucher's disease), has been decreased in current populations by the application of genetic screening.\n\nPleiotropy occurs when one gene influences multiple, seemingly unrelated phenotypic traits, an example being phenylketonuria, which is a human disease that affects multiple systems but is caused by one gene defect. Andrzej Pękalski, from the University of Wrocław, argues that eugenics can cause harmful loss of genetic diversity if a eugenics program selects a pleiotropic gene that could possibly be associated with a positive trait. Pekalski uses the example of a coercive government eugenics program that prohibits people with myopia from breeding but has the unintended consequence of also selecting against high intelligence since the two go together.\n\nEugenic policies could also lead to loss of genetic diversity, in which case a culturally accepted \"improvement\" of the gene pool could very likely—as evidenced in numerous instances in isolated island populations —result in extinction due to increased vulnerability to disease, reduced ability to adapt to environmental change, and other factors both known and unknown. A long-term, species-wide eugenics plan might lead to a scenario similar to this because the elimination of traits deemed undesirable would reduce genetic diversity by definition.\n\nEdward M. Miller claims that, in any one generation, any realistic program should make only minor changes in a fraction of the gene pool, giving plenty of time to reverse direction if unintended consequences emerge, reducing the likelihood of the elimination of desirable genes. Miller also argues that any appreciable reduction in diversity is so far in the future that little concern is needed for now.\n\nWhile the science of genetics has increasingly provided means by which certain characteristics and conditions can be identified and understood, given the complexity of human genetics, culture, and psychology, at this point no agreed objective means of determining which traits might be ultimately desirable or undesirable. Some diseases such as sickle-cell disease and cystic fibrosis respectively confer immunity to malaria and resistance to cholera when a single copy of the recessive allele is contained within the genotype of the individual. Reducing the instance of sickle-cell disease genes in Africa where malaria is a common and deadly disease could indeed have extremely negative net consequences.\n\nHowever, some genetic diseases cause people to consider some elements of eugenics.\n\nSocietal and political consequences of eugenics call for a place in the discussion on the ethics behind the eugenics movement. Many of the ethical concerns regarding eugenics arise from its controversial past, prompting a discussion on what place, if any, it should have in the future. Advances in science have changed eugenics. In the past, eugenics had more to do with sterilization and enforced reproduction laws. Now, in the age of a progressively mapped genome, embryos can be tested for susceptibility to disease, gender, and genetic defects, and alternative methods of reproduction such as in vitro fertilization are becoming more common. Therefore, eugenics is no longer \"ex post facto\" regulation of the living but instead preemptive action on the unborn.\n\nWith this change, however, there are ethical concerns which lack adequate attention, and which must be addressed before eugenic policies can be properly implemented in the future. Sterilized individuals, for example, could volunteer for the procedure, albeit under incentive or duress, or at least voice their opinion. The unborn fetus on which these new eugenic procedures are performed cannot speak out, as the fetus lacks the voice to consent or to express his or her opinion. Philosophers disagree about the proper framework for reasoning about such actions, which change the very identity and existence of future persons.\n\nA common criticism of eugenics is that \"it inevitably leads to measures that are unethical\". Some fear future \"eugenics wars\" as the worst-case scenario: the return of coercive state-sponsored genetic discrimination and human rights violations such as compulsory sterilization of persons with genetic defects, the killing of the institutionalized and, specifically, segregation and genocide of \"races\"\" \"perceived as inferior. Health law professor George Annas and technology law professor Lori Andrews are prominent advocates of the position that the use of these technologies could lead to such human-posthuman caste warfare.\n\nIn his 2003 book \"Enough: Staying Human in an Engineered Age\", environmental ethicist Bill McKibben argued at length against germinal choice technology and other advanced biotechnological strategies for human enhancement. He writes that it would be morally wrong for humans to tamper with fundamental aspects of themselves (or their children) in an attempt to overcome universal human limitations, such as vulnerability to aging, maximum life span and biological constraints on physical and cognitive ability. Attempts to \"improve\" themselves through such manipulation would remove limitations that provide a necessary context for the experience of meaningful human choice. He claims that human lives would no longer seem meaningful in a world where such limitations could be overcome with technology. Even the goal of using germinal choice technology for clearly therapeutic purposes should be relinquished, since it would inevitably produce temptations to tamper with such things as cognitive capacities. He argues that it is possible for societies to benefit from renouncing particular technologies, using as examples Ming China, Tokugawa Japan and the contemporary Amish.\n\nSome, for example Nathaniel C. Comfort from Johns Hopkins University, claim that the change from state-led reproductive-genetic decision-making to individual choice has moderated the worst abuses of eugenics by transferring the decision-making from the state to the patient and their family. Comfort suggests that \"the eugenic impulse drives us to eliminate disease, live longer and healthier, with greater intelligence, and a better adjustment to the conditions of society; and the health benefits, the intellectual thrill and the profits of genetic bio-medicine are too great for us to do otherwise.\" Others, such as bioethicist Stephen Wilkinson of Keele University and Honorary Research Fellow Eve Garrard at the University of Manchester, claim that some aspects of modern genetics can be classified as eugenics, but that this classification does not inherently make modern genetics immoral. In a co-authored publication by Keele University, they stated that \"[e]ugenics doesn't seem always to be immoral, and so the fact that PGD, and other forms of selective reproduction, might sometimes technically be eugenic, isn't sufficient to show that they're wrong.\"\n\nIn their book published in 2000, \"From Chance to Choice: Genetics and Justice\", bioethicists Allen Buchanan, Dan Brock, Norman Daniels and Daniel Wikler argued that liberal societies have an obligation to encourage as wide an adoption of eugenic enhancement technologies as possible (so long as such policies do not infringe on individuals' reproductive rights or exert undue pressures on prospective parents to use these technologies) in order to maximize public health and minimize the inequalities that may result from both natural genetic endowments and unequal access to genetic enhancements.\n\nOriginal position, a hypothetical situation developed by American philosopher John Rawls, has been used as an argument for \"negative eugenics\".\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47378228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47378228", "title": "Extreme learning machine", "text": "Extreme learning machine\n\nExtreme learning machines are feedforward neural networks for classification, regression, clustering, sparse approximation, compression and feature learning with a single layer or multiple layers of hidden nodes, where the parameters of hidden nodes (not just the weights connecting inputs to hidden nodes) need not be tuned. These hidden nodes can be randomly assigned and never updated (i.e. they are random projection but with nonlinear transforms), or can be inherited from their ancestors without being changed. In most cases, the output weights of hidden nodes are usually learned in a single step, which essentially amounts to learning a linear model. The name \"extreme learning machine\" (ELM) was given to such models by its main inventor Guang-Bin Huang.\n\nAccording to their creators, these models are able to produce good generalization performance and learn thousands of times faster than networks trained using backpropagation. In literature, it also shows that these models can outperform support vector machines (SVM) and SVM provides suboptimal solutions in both classification and regression applications.\n\nFrom 2001-2010, ELM research mainly focused on the unified learning framework for \"generalized\" single-hidden layer feedforward neural networks (SLFNs), including but not limited to sigmoid networks, RBF networks, threshold networks, trigonometric networks, fuzzy inference systems, Fourier series, Laplacian transform, wavelet networks, etc. One significant achievements made in those years is to successfully prove the universal approximation and classification capabilities of ELM in theory.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2015, ELM research extended to the unified learning framework for kernel learning, SVM and a few typical feature learning methods such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF). It is shown that SVM actually provides suboptimal solutions compared to ELM, and ELM can provide the whitebox kernel mapping, which is implemented by ELM random feature mapping, instead of the blackbox kernel used in SVM. PCA and NMF can be considered as special cases where linear hidden nodes are used in ELM.\n\nFrom 2015 onwards, an increased focus has been placed on hierarchical implementations of ELM. Additionally since 2011, significant biological studies have been made that support certain ELM theories.\n\nIn a recent announcement from Google Scholar: \"Classic Papers: Articles That Have Stood The Test of Time\", two ELM papers have been listed in the \"Top 10 in Artificial Intelligence for 2006,\" taking positions 2 and 7.\n\nGiven a single hidden layer of ELM, suppose that the output function of the formula_1-th hidden node is formula_2, where formula_3 and formula_4 are the parameters of the formula_1-th hidden node. The output function of the ELM for SLFNs with formula_6 hidden nodes is:\n\nformula_7, where formula_8 is the output weight of the formula_1-th hidden node.\n\nformula_10 is the hidden layer output mapping of ELM. Given formula_11 training samples, the hidden layer output matrix formula_12 of ELM is given as: formula_13\n\nand formula_14 is the training data target matrix: formula_15\n\nGenerally speaking, ELM is a kind of regularization neural networks but with non-tuned hidden layer mappings (formed by either random hidden nodes, kernels or other implementations), its objective function is:\n\nformula_16\n\nwhere formula_17. \n\nDifferent combinations of formula_18, formula_19, formula_20 and formula_21 can be used and result in different learning algorithms for regression, classification, sparse coding, compression, feature learning and clustering.\n\nAs a special case, a simplest ELM training algorithm learns a model of the form (for single hidden layer sigmoid neural networks):\n\nwhere is the matrix of input-to-hidden-layer weights, formula_23 is an activation function, and is the matrix of hidden-to-output-layer weights. The algorithm proceeds as follows:\n\n\nIn most cases, ELM is used as a single hidden layer feedforward network (SLFN) including but not limited to sigmoid networks, RBF networks, threshold networks, fuzzy inference networks, complex neural networks, wavelet networks, Fourier transform, Laplacian transform, etc. Due to its different learning algorithm implementations for regression, classification, spare coding, compression, feature learning and clustering, multi ELMs have been used to form multi hidden layer networks, deep learning or hierarchical networks.\n\nA hidden node in ELM is a computational elements, which need not be considered as classical neuron. A hidden node in ELM can be classical artificial neurons, basis functions, or a subnetwork formed by some hidden nodes..\n\nBoth universal approximation and classification capabilities have been proved for ELM in literature. Especially, Guang-Bin Huang and his team spent almost seven years (2001-2008) on the rigorous proofs of ELM's universal approximation capability. \n\nIn theory, any nonconstant piecewise continuous function can be used as activation function in ELM hidden nodes, such an activation function need not be differential. If tuning the parameters of hidden nodes could make SLFNs approximate any target function formula_25, then hidden node parameters can be randomly generated according to any continuous distribution probability, and formula_26 holds with probability one with appropriate output weights formula_27.\n\nGiven any nonconstant piecewise continuous function as the activation function in SLFNs, if tuning the parameters of hidden nodes can make SLFNs approximate any target function formula_25, then SLFNs with random hidden layer mapping formula_29 can separate arbitrary disjoint regions of any shapes.\n\nWide type of nonlinear piecewise continuous functions formula_30 can be used in hidden neurons of ELM, for example:\n\nSigmoid function: formula_31\n\nFourier function: formula_32\n\nHardlimit function: formula_33\n\nGaussian function: formula_34\n\nMultiquadrics function: formula_35\n\nWavelet: formula_36 where formula_37 is a single mother wavelet function.\n\nCircular functions:\n\nformula_38\n\nformula_39\n\nInverse circular functions:\n\nformula_40\n\nformula_41\n\nHyperbolic functions:\n\nformula_42\n\nformula_43\n\nInverse hyperbolic functions:\n\nformula_44\n\nformula_45\n\nThe black-box character of neural networks in general and extreme learning machines (ELM) in particular is one of the major concerns that repels engineers from application in unsafe automation tasks. This particular issue was approached by means of several different techniques. One approach is to reduce the dependence on the random input. Another approach focuses on the incorporation of continuous constraints into the learning process of ELMs which are derived from prior knowledge about the specific task. This is reasonable, because machine learning solutions have to guarantee a safe operation in many application domains. The mentioned studies revealed that the special form of ELMs, with its functional separation and the linear read-out weights, is particularly well suited for the efficient incorporation of continuous constraints in predefined regions of the input space.\n\nThere are two main complaints from academic community concerning this work, the first one is about \"reinventing and ignoring previous ideas\", the second one is about \"improper naming\", as shown in some debates in 2008 and 2015. In particular, it was pointed out in a letter to the editor of \"IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks\" that the idea of using a hidden layer connected to the inputs by random untrained weights was already suggested in the original papers on RBF networks in the late 1980s; Guang-Bin Huang replied by pointing out subtle differences. In a 2015 paper, Huang responded to complaints about his invention of the name ELM for already-existing methods, complaining of \"very negative and unhelpful comments on ELM in neither academic nor professional manner due to various reasons and intentions\" and an \"irresponsible anonymous attack which intends to destroy harmony research environment\", arguing that his work \"provides a unifying learning platform\" for various types of neural nets, including hierarchical structured ELM. In 2015, Huang also gave a formal rebuttal to what he considered as \"malign and attack.\" Recent research replaces the random weights with constrained random weights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12985344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12985344", "title": "Grand Duchess Elizabeth Mikhailovna of Russia", "text": "Grand Duchess Elizabeth Mikhailovna of Russia\n\nGrand Duchess Elizabeth Mikhailovna of Russia (Moscow, 26 May 1826 – Wiesbaden, 28 January 1845) was the second child and daughter of Grand Duke Mikhail Pavlovich of Russia and Princess Charlotte of Württemberg who took the name \"Elena Pavlovna\" upon her conversion to the Orthodox faith. Through her father, Elizabeth was a granddaughter of Tsar Paul I of Russia, and a niece of both Russian emperors Alexander I and Nicholas I.\n\nElizabeth, nicknamed \"Lili\", was born in the Kremlin in Moscow and she was named after her aunt who had died earlier that month, the Empress Elizabeth, wife of Emperor Alexander I and a close friend of her mother. She grew up with her other siblings in the Mikhailovsky Palace in Saint Petersburg. Elizabeth was said to be the prettiest among her sisters, and like her mother, Elena Pavlovna, she was graceful in manners and well-educated. By the end of 1843, Adolf, Duke of Nassau was visiting St. Petersburg and met Elizabeth for the first time. Adolf's stepmother was Princess Pauline of Württemberg, Elizabeth's maternal aunt, and so he was related to the Russians in some way. Adolf and Elizabeth fell in love and they eventually got married on 31 January 1844 in St. Petersburg. Elizabeth was 17 years old and Adolf was 26.\n\nAfter the wedding, the couple stayed in Russia for some time until they moved to Germany and took up residence in Castle Biebrich in Wiesbaden. Elizabeth, now Duchess of Nassau, was popular among the people.\nShe and Adolf were happily married and the news that she was already pregnant with their first child brought great happiness to the couple. After only a year, Elizabeth died giving birth to a daughter, who also did not survive. The grief-stricken Adolf ordered the construction of a Russian Orthodox church - the St. Elizabeth's Church in Neroberg Park, Wiesbaden - to house her remains The location of the church on the hill was chosen by Adolf himself so that he could always have a view of the church from his residence. Elizabeth's sarcophagus can still be seen today inside the church.\n\n"}
{"id": "4974870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4974870", "title": "International Coalition for the Decade", "text": "International Coalition for the Decade\n\nOn 10 November 1998, the United Nations General Assembly proclaimed the first decade of the 21st century and the third millennium, the years 2001 to 2010, as the International Decade for the Promotion of a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World.\n\nSince 2001, some national NGOs coalitions promoting the Decade have been established in several countries, including Austria, France, Italy and the Netherlands. \nThese national coalitions along with international organizations decided to found the International Coalition for the Decade for the Culture of Peace and Nonviolence in June 2003.\n\nIts office is based in Paris and its president is Christian Renoux (France).\n\nNational Coalitions (11) :\n\nInternational Associations (15) :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12961622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12961622", "title": "Jane Cazneau", "text": "Jane Cazneau\n\nJane Maria Eliza Cazneau (née McManus, widowed Storm; April 6, 1807 – December 12, 1878) was an American journalist, lobbyist, and publicist who advocated the annexation of all of Mexico during the Mexican-American War.\n\nShe was born on April 6, 1807, in Brunswick, Rensselaer County, New York, the daughter of Congressman William McManus and Catharine (Coons) McManus. She attended Troy Female Seminary, one of the earliest colleges for women, but did not graduate. On August 22, 1825, she married Allen B. Storm. They separated in 1831, and Allen Storm died 1838 in New York City. Their son, William Mont Storm (b. August 2, 1826), became an inventor whose first invention was patented on Feb. 4, 1851 for an \"Improved method of obtaining motive power\". He had at least 33 patents to his name, with most in firearms, but many other devices as well.\n\nIn 1832, Jane's father ventured into land speculation, and was one of the founders of the Galveston Bay and Texas Land Company, and Jane and her brother Robert traveled to Texas, which was then still part of Mexico, to buy land. The next year, Jane, her father, her brother Robert and a company of German settlers set out to take possession of the land, but the scheme failed when the German settlers refused to go beyond Matagorda. She returned home with her father to Brunswick, NY. Her brother Robert remained in Texas and eventually became a wealthy planter.\n\nAlso at this time, Eliza Jumel named her as co-respondent in her divorce suit with Aaron Burr, alleging an affair in addition to his ruinous attempt at land speculation.\n\nThen she turned to journalism, working for Horace Greeley's \"New-York Tribune\", and Moses Yale Beach's \"New York Sun\" and the \"Democratic Review\", strongly advocating manifest destiny. Storm embraced this with enthusiasm, and was to go on to be a firm believer, northerner though she was, in the expansion of the South, and of slavery, its 'peculiar institution', into Central America and the Caribbean. In \"Mistress of Manifest Destiny\" (2001), Linda S. Hudson argued that it was Storm who actually wrote the \"Annexation\" editorial, and thus coined the phrase \"Manifest Destiny\". Since many editorials in John L. O'Sullivan's publications were unsigned, Hudson used computer-aided \"textual analysis\" to support her argument. O'Sullivan biographer Robert D. Sampson disputes Hudson's claim for a variety of reasons.\n\nCazneau was sent by President Polk on a secret peace mission to Mexico in 1845; she rode there on horseback. With the outbreak of the Mexican-American War, she went to the front, where she witnessed Winfield Scott's capture of the fortress of Vera Cruz in March 1847, the first female war correspondent in American history, using the name of \"Cora Montgomery.\" She helped negotiate the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo (1848), which included guarantees of property rights to both male and female nonresident landowners. While in Mexico, she worked on canal-building expeditions and banking projects. At the end of the Mexican-American War she turned her attention to Cuba, and the potential it represented, advocating its annexation, and denouncing its Spanish colonial overlords. She later settled at Eagle Pass, a frontier village three hundred miles up the Rio Grande from the Gulf of Mexico, getting to know many of the local Indian chiefs.\n\nIn 1849, she married William Leslie Cazneau. They moved to the Dominican Republic in 1855. Despite her earlier sympathies for southern expansionism she disapproved of secession, and was hired by William H. Seward, Lincoln's Secretary of State, to write denunciations of the Confederacy. It was a matter of simple principle for her: the war was a serious interruption to further prospects of American expansion in the Caribbean.\n\nIn 1878, she was drowned on her way to Santo Domingo, after the steamer \"Emily B. Souder\" on which she was travelling was caught in a huge storm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3018472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3018472", "title": "Japanese cruiser Agano", "text": "Japanese cruiser Agano\n\n\"Agano\" was the first of the four vessels completed in the \"Agano\" class of light cruisers, which were intended to replace increasingly obsolete light cruisers in the Imperial Japanese Navy. Funding was authorized in the 4th Naval Armaments Supplement Programme of 1939, although construction was delayed due to lack of capacity in Japanese shipyards. Like other vessels of her class, \"Agano\" was intended for use as the flagship of a destroyer flotilla.\n\nThe design for the \"Agano\" class was based on technologies developed by the experimental cruiser , resulting in a graceful and uncluttered deck line and single smokestack.\n\n\"Agano\" was armed with six 152 mm Type 41 guns in three gun turrets. Secondary armament included four 8 cm/60 Type 98 naval guns designed specifically for the class, in two twin turrets amidships. Anti-aircraft weapons included two triple 25 mm AA guns in front of the bridge, and two twin 13 mm mounts near the mast. \"Agano\" also had two quadruple torpedo launchers for Type 93 torpedoes located below the flight deck, with eight reserve torpedoes. The torpedo tubes were mounted on the centerline, as was more common with destroyers, and had a rapid reload system with eight spare torpedoes. Being mounted on the centerline allowed the twin launchers to fire to either port or starboard, meaning that a full eight-torpedo broadside could be fired, whereas a ship with separate port and starboard launchers can only fire half of its torpedoes at a time. Two depth charge rails and 18 depth charges were also installed aft. \"Agano\" was also equipped with two Aichi E13A aircraft and had a flight deck with a 26-foot catapult.\n\nThe engines were a quadruple-shaft geared turbine arrangement with six boilers in five boiler rooms, developing for a maximum speed of .\n\nBuilt at Sasebo Naval Arsenal, \"Agano\" was laid down on 18 June 1940, launched on 22 October 1941 and completed on 31 October 1942. On completion, she was assigned as flagship of Destroyer Squadron 10 of the IJN 3rd Fleet. On 16 December 1942, \"Agano\" began her first combat operation, joining the aircraft carrier and other ships to escort troops to Wewak and Madang in New Guinea, and later patrolling in the Bismarck Sea and covering landings of Japanese forces at Hollandia. \"Agano\" was next involved in the evacuation of Japanese troops from Guadalcanal, which was completed in February 1943, with about 12,000 Japanese soldiers evacuated.\n\nIn May 1943, \"Agano\" returned to Kure Naval District and was assigned to the powerful fleet intended to counterstrike against American forces which had landed on Attu Island in the Aleutians. However, by the time the force was assembled, the Americans had completed their capture of the island, and the strike was called off.\nIn June 1943, \"Agano\" put in at Kure Naval Arsenal for refit, including the addition of air search radar Type 21 and an additional ten 25 mm Type 96 antiaircraft guns in two twin and two triple mounts, adding to the original two triple mounts for a total of sixteen guns.\n\nAfter refitting and dry dock, \"Agano\" departed for Truk in the Caroline Islands with a large Japanese force. Despite numerous sightings by American submarines and an attack on the aircraft carrier , \"Agano\" made it safely to Truk where she began ferrying troops and supplies to Rabaul from July to October 1943.\n\n\"Agano\" sortied with the fleet to attempt to intercept American raiding forces near Eniwetok in September 1943, but failed to make contact. Another attempt to intercept the Americans in October was a failure as well. However, on 2 November 1943, while part of the fleet supporting the defense of Rabaul, \"Agano\" participated in a major action (the Battle of Empress Augusta Bay) against American units in which the cruiser and destroyer were both sunk. Three days later, back in port at Rabaul, \"Agano\" was barely missed by an American air strike launched by the aircraft carriers and , sustaining slight damage and with one crewman killed. The fleet put to sea to engage American forces but this was cancelled and the fleet returned to Rabaul by 7 November 1943.\n\nIn harbor at Rabaul on 11 November, a Mark 13 torpedo launched by a Grumman TBF Avenger aircraft hit \"Agano\" in the stern, bending one of her shafts and flooding four compartments. Rear Admiral Morikazu Osugi was also injured in the attack. The next day, \"Agano\" was taken under tow by her sister ship, together with four destroyers, for repairs at Truk. However, a few hours after departure, the ships were sighted by the American submarine , which launched four torpedoes. \"Agano\" was struck again in the stern, damaging a second screw shaft and severely buckling several plates. Later that day, the accompanying destroyers fought off an attack by the submarine using a four-hour-long depth charge barrage. \"Agano\" finally reached Truk on 16 November.\n\nAfter three months of emergency field repairs, from November 1943 until mid-February 1944, \"Agano\" was finally able to leave Truk, albeit on only two of her four screws. In the course of repairs, 19 of her bulkheads had to be removed. She departed Truk on 15 February 1944, escorted by the destroyer and submarine hunter \"CH-28\", for the Japanese home islands where she was to be properly repaired, but could make only . On the afternoon of 16 February north of Truk the three vessels were spotted by the American submarine , which launched four torpedoes. Two struck \"Agano\" on the starboard side, flooding boiler rooms 3 and 5, and setting the ship ablaze. She remained afloat until the early morning of 17 February, allowing \"Oite\" to rescue 523 survivors from her crew of 726 men. \"Agano\" sank at at 05:17 on 17 February. \"Agano\" was removed from the navy list on 31 March 1944.\n\nHowever, as \"Oite\" attempted to return to Truk that afternoon, the destroyer was sunk by torpedoes launched by Grumman TBF Avengers in the course of Operation Hailstone, and sank within minutes at the north entrance to the atoll, taking all but twenty of her own crew down with her. All of the \"Agano\" crewmembers originally rescued were lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3995202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3995202", "title": "Katie King (spirit)", "text": "Katie King (spirit)\n\nKatie King was the name given by Spiritualists in the 1870s to what they believed to be a materialized spirit. The question of whether the spirit was real or a fraud was a notable public controversy of the mid-1870s.\n\nThe spirit was said to have appeared first between 1871 and 1874 in séances conducted by Florence Cook in London, and later in 1874-1875 in New York in séances held by the mediums Jennie Holmes and her husband Nelson Holmes.\n\nKatie King was believed by Spiritualists to be the daughter of John King, a \"spirit control\" of the 1850s through the 1870s that appeared in many séances involving materialized spirits.\n\nFlorence Cook (ca 1856 – 1904) was a teenage girl who started to claim mediumistic abilities in 1870 and in 1871-2 she developed her abilities under the established mediums Frank Herne and Charles Williams. Herne was associated with the spirit \"John King\", and Florence became associated with \"Katie King\", stated to be John King's daughter. Herne was exposed as a fraud in 1875. Katie King developed from appearing as a disembodied face to a fully physical materialisation.\n\nAt Hackney on 9 December 1873, lawyer William Volckman attended a séance held by Florence Cook, during which Katie King materialized and, as was customary, held the hands of participants. Suspicious of the spirit's similarity with Cook, Volckman seized the spirit's hand and waist, accusing it of being the medium masquerading as her ghost. The spirit was wrestled from Volckman's grasp by other participants and returned to a cabinet from which Cook emerged some minutes later. Volckman published his opinion that the spirit was a masquerade by Cook. Supporters of Miss Cook denounced Volckman on the grounds that he had broken his agreement to proper etiquette required in the séance, thus negating his credibility as an investigator: Volckman was associated with another medium, Mrs Guppy, who might have wished to denigrate her rival. Moreover, it was argued that since spirits borrowed energy and matter from their medium, it was not surprising that Katie King resembled Cook. Despite the defence of their position, Cook and her supporters were hurt by this incident — newspapers were referring to it as an \"exposure\" — and sought further support for their position. To this end, they turned to Crookes, who was a prominent and respected scientist (Noakes, 130-1).\n\nBetween 1871 and 1874, Sir William Crookes investigated the preternatural phenomena produced by Spiritualist mediums. He described the conditions he imposed on mediums as follows: \"It must be at my own house, and my own selection of friends and spectators, under my own conditions, and I may do whatever I like as regards apparatus\" (Doyle 1926: volume 1, 177).\n\nA 15-year-old Cook, alone in Crookes' house with Crookes' friends and family as witnesses, was said to have materialized the spirit of Katie King, who walked about, talked, allowed herself to be weighed and measured, and even held the family's baby (Doyle 1926: volume 1, 241). On one occasion, at a joint seance in Crookes's home in March 1874, Katie King was seen in company with \"Florence Maple\", a spirit materialised by the medium Mary Showers who was exposed as a fraud shortly thereafter. The sessions were held with the medium secluded in the dark, because Spiritualists believe that materialization requires very dim surroundings to succeed, though occasionally the spirits materialised in the light and some photographs were taken. As is apparently typical of materialized spirits, Katie's exact height and weight varied, though Katie was always taller than Florence Cook, with a larger face, and different hair and skin. According to those present, the two were both visible at the same moments, so that Florence could not have assumed the role of the spirit (Doyle 1926: volume 1, 235-240).\n\nThe final appearances of Katie King in connection with Florence Cook took place in April and May 1874 at the Cook family home in Hackney. The audiences were invited to sit in a parlour opening onto a bedroom, in which Florence would start her trance. After some time Katie King would emerge. At some point the audience would be shown a figure, apparently Florence, lying on the floor of the bedroom with her head covered by a shawl while Katie King was still visible in the parlour. A number of the witnesses, such as Edward W. Cox, recorded their doubts about the proceedings, while others claimed that they had seen the two clearly, such as Crookes and Florence Marryat, who claimed that she had seen Katie naked in Florence's company.\n\nCrookes' report, published in 1874, contained his assertion that Florence Cook, as well as the mediums Kate Fox and Daniel Dunglas Home, were producing genuine preternatural phenomena (Crookes 1874). The publication caused an uproar, and his testimony about Katie King was considered the most outrageous and sensational part of the report.\n\nHer story was told in season 21, episode 8 of \"Mysteries at the Museum\".\n\nAfter news of Katie King had spread abroad, the American mediums Jennie and Nelson Holmes also claimed to have materialized her. Robert Dale Owen, the politician and avowed Spiritualist, had experienced this materialization and wrote about it in an article for the \"Atlantic Monthly\" in January 1875.\n\nJust as the article was going to press, however, a woman named Eliza White stepped forward and claimed to have masqueraded as Katie. White's face matched that of \"Katie King\" in photographs sold by the Holmeses and their agents. Both the \"Atlantic Monthly\" and Owen admitted in public to being duped. Arthur Conan Doyle maintains that this \"exposure\" did more damage to Spiritualism than any other exposure of the period (Doyle 1926: volume 1, 269-277).\n\nInvestigations conducted by leading Spiritualist Henry Steel Olcott in 1875 re-established the credibility of the Holmeses in the eyes of many Spiritualists. The story eventually accepted by most Spiritualists was that Eliza White had been hired to pose as Katie King for a photograph to sell to the public. The Holmeses had not wanted to photograph the real Katie King, since bright light would have ruined the materialization. Once involved, Eliza White first extorted money from the Holmeses, and then sold the story to the press. (Doyle 1926: volume 1, 269-277).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1245556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245556", "title": "King Kong", "text": "King Kong\n\nKing Kong is a giant movie monster, resembling an enormous gorilla, that has appeared in various media since 1933. The character first appeared in the 1933 film \"King Kong\" from RKO Pictures, which received universal acclaim upon its initial release and re-releases. A sequel quickly followed that same year with \"The Son of Kong\", featuring Little Kong. In the 1960s, Toho produced \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\" (1962), pitting a larger Kong against Toho's own Godzilla, and \"King Kong Escapes\" (1967), based on \"The King Kong Show\" (1966–1969) from Rankin/Bass Productions. In 1976, Dino De Laurentiis produced a modern remake of the original film directed by John Guillermin. A sequel, \"King Kong Lives\", followed a decade later featuring a Lady Kong. Another remake of the original, this time set in 1933, was released in 2005 from filmmaker Peter Jackson.\n\nThe most recent film, \"\" (2017), set in 1973, is part of Legendary Entertainment's MonsterVerse, which began with Legendary's reboot of \"Godzilla\" in 2014. A crossover sequel, \"Godzilla vs. Kong\", once again pitting the characters against one another, is currently planned for 2020.\n\nThe character King Kong has become one of the world's most famous movie icons, having inspired a number of sequels, remakes, spin-offs, imitators, parodies, cartoons, books, comics, video games, theme park rides, and a stage play. His role in the different narratives varies, ranging from a rampaging monster to a tragic antihero.\n\nThe King Kong character was conceived and created by American filmmaker Merian C. Cooper. In the original film, the character's name is Kong, a name given to him by the inhabitants of \"Skull Island\" in the Indian Ocean, where Kong lives along with other oversized animals such as a plesiosaur, pterosaurs and various dinosaurs. An American film crew, led by Carl Denham, captures Kong and takes him to New York City to be exhibited as the \"Eighth Wonder of the World\".\n\nKong escapes and climbs the Empire State Building, only to fall from the skyscraper after being attacked by airplanes with guns. Denham comments \"it wasn't the airplanes, It was beauty killed the beast,\" for he climbs the building in the first place only in an attempt to protect Ann Darrow, an actress originally offered up to Kong on Skull Island as a sacrifice (in the 1976 remake, her character is named \"Dwan\").\n\nA documentary about Skull Island that appears on the DVD for the 2005 remake (originally seen on the Sci-Fi Channel at the time of its theatrical release) gives Kong's scientific name as \"Megaprimatus kong\" (\"Megaprimatus\", deriving from the prefix \"mega-\" and the Latin words \"primate\" and \"primatus\", means \"big primate\" or \"big supreme being\") and states that his species may be related to \"Gigantopithecus\", though that genus of giant ape is more closely related to orangutans than to gorillas.\n\nMerian C. Cooper became fascinated by gorillas at the age of 6. In 1899, he was given a book from his uncle called \"Explorations and Adventures in Equatorial Africa\". The book (written in 1861), chronicled the adventures of Paul Du Chaillu in Africa and his various encounters with the natives and wildlife there. Cooper became fascinated with the stories involving the gorillas, in particular, Du Chaillu's depiction of a particular gorilla known for its \"extraordinary size\", that the natives described as \"invincible\" and the \"King of the African Forest\". When Du Chaillu and some natives encountered a gorilla later in the book he described it as a \"hellish dream creature\" that was \"half man, half beast\". These stories planted the seed of adventure in young Merian's mind.\n\nDecades later in his adult years, Cooper became involved in the motion picture industry. While filming \"The Four Feathers\" in Africa, he came into contact with a family of baboons. This gave him the idea to make a picture about primates. A year later when he got to RKO, Cooper wanted to film a \"terror gorilla picture\". As the story was being fleshed out, Cooper decided to make his gorilla giant sized. Cooper stated that the idea of Kong fighting warplanes on top of a building came from him seeing a plane flying over the New York Insurance Building, then the tallest building in the world. He came up with the ending before the rest of the story as he stated, \"Without any conscious effort of thought I immediately saw in my mind's eye a giant gorilla on top of the building\". Cooper also was influenced by Douglas Burden's accounts of the Komodo Dragon, and wanted to pit his terror gorilla against dinosaur-sized versions of these reptiles, stating to Burden, \"I also had firmly in mind to giantize both the gorilla and your dragons to make them really huge. However I always believed in personalizing and focusing attention on one main character and from the very beginning I intended to make it the gigantic gorilla, no matter what else I surrounded him with\". Around this time, Cooper began to refer to his project as a \"giant terror gorilla picture\" featuring \"a gigantic semi-humanoid gorilla pitted against modern civilization.\n\nOnce the film got green-lit and it came time to design King Kong, Cooper wanted him to be a nightmarish gorilla monster. As he described him in a 1930 memo, \"His hands and feet have the size and strength of steam shovels; his girth is that of a steam boiler. This is a monster with the strength of a hundred men. But more terrifying is the head—a nightmare head with bloodshot eyes and jagged teeth set under a thick mat of hair, a face half-beast half-human\". Willis O'Brien created an oil painting depicting the giant gorilla menacing a jungle heroine and hunter for Cooper. However, when it came time for O'Brien and Marcel Delgado to sculpt the animation model, Cooper decided to backpedal on the half-human look for the creature and became adamant that Kong be a gorilla. O'Brien on the other hand, wanted him to be almost human-like to gain audience empathy, and told Delgado to \"make that ape almost human\". Cooper laughed at the end result saying that it looked like a cross between a monkey and a man with very long hair. For the second model, O'Brien again asked Delgado to add human features but to tone it down somewhat. The end result (which was rejected) was described as looking like a missing link. Disappointed, Cooper stated, \"I want Kong to be the fiercest, most brutal, monstrous damned thing that has ever been seen!\" On December 22, 1931, Cooper got the dimensions of a bull gorilla from the American Museum of Natural History telling O'Brien, \"Now that's what I want!\" When the final model was created (one that Cooper ultimately approved of), it had the basic overall look of a gorilla but managed to retain some humanesque qualities, such as a streamlined body and a removed paunch and rump, distinctive aspects of the gorilla's anatomy that Delgado purposefully removed. O'Brien would incorporate some characteristics and nuances of an earlier creature he had created in 1915 for the silent short \"The Dinosaur and the Missing Link\" into the general look and personality of Kong, even going as far as to refer to the creature as \"Kong's ancestor\". When it came time to film, Cooper agreed that Kong should walk upright at times (mostly in the New York sequences) in order to appear more intimidating.\n\nMerian C. Cooper was very fond of strong, hard-sounding words that started with the letter \"K\". Some of his favorite words were \"Komodo\", \"Kodiak\" and \"Kodak\". When Cooper was envisioning his giant terror gorilla idea, he wanted to capture a real gorilla from the Congo and have it fight a real Komodo dragon on Komodo island. (This scenario would eventually evolve into Kong's battle with the tyrannosaur on Skull Island when the film was produced a few years later at RKO.) Cooper's friend Douglas Burden's trip to the island of Komodo and his encounter with the Komodo dragons was a big influence on the Kong story. Cooper was fascinated by Burden's adventures as chronicled in his book \"Dragon Lizards of Komodo\" where he referred to the animal as the \"King of Komodo\". It was this phrase along with \"Komodo\" and \"Kongo\" (and his overall love for hard sounding \"K\"-words) that gave him the idea to name the giant ape \"Kong\". He loved the name, as it had a \"mystery sound\" to it.\n\nWhen Cooper got to RKO and wrote the first draft of the story, it was simply referred to as \"The Beast\". RKO executives were unimpressed with the bland title. David O. Selznick suggested \"Jungle Beast\" as the film's new title, but Cooper was unimpressed and wanted to name the film after the main character. He stated he liked the \"mystery word\" aspect of Kong's name and that the film should carry \"the name of the leading mysterious, romantic, savage creature of the story\" such as with Dracula and Frankenstein. RKO sent a memo to Cooper suggesting the titles \"Kong: King of Beasts\", \"Kong: The Jungle King\", and \"Kong: The Jungle Beast\", which combined his and Selznick's proposed titles. As time went on, Cooper would eventually name the story simply \"Kong\" while Ruth Rose was writing the final version of the screenplay. Because David O. Selznick thought that audiences would think that the film, with the one word title of \"Kong\", would be mistaken as a docudrama like \"Grass\" and \"Chang\", which were one-word titled films that Cooper had earlier produced, he added the \"King\" to Kong's name to differentiate it.\n\nIn mid-2012, it was announced that a musical adaptation of the story (endorsed by Merian C. Cooper's estate) was going to be staged in Melbourne at the Regent Theatre. The show premiered on June 15, 2013, with music by Marius De Vries. The musical premiered on Broadway in November 8 of 2018 at the Broadway Theatre. The creative team included book writer Jack Thorne, director-choreographer Drew McOnie, and Australian songwriter Eddie Perfect, who replace the former creatives.\n\nThe huge King Kong puppet was created by Global Creature Technology. The puppet stands 20 feet tall and weighs 2,400 pounds. It was operated by 10 puppeteers. According to Sonny Tilders, who designed the Fiberglas and steel puppet for Global Creatures Company, \"It’s the most sophisticated marionette puppet ever made”. Tilders also stated that Kong is built in layers, and is “quite similar to genuine anatomy.” Over the steel skeleton, the body shell is a mixture of hard Fiberglas, enforced inflatables, high-pressure inflatables, and bags full of styrene beans that stretch and contort like muscles. “We really wanted to create the sense that he’s a moving sculpture,” stated Tilders \n\nIn December 1932, as the film \"King Kong\" was finishing production, Merian C. Cooper asked his friend Delos W. Lovelace to adapt the film's screenplay into a novelization. Published by Grosset & Dunlap, the book was released later that month on December 27, 1932, a few months before the film opened in the Spring of 1933. This was a part of the film's advance marketing campaign. The novelization was credited as being based on the \"Screenplay by James A. Creelman and Ruth Rose. Novelized from the Radio Picture\". The byline written under the title was \"Conceived by Edgar Wallace and Merian C Cooper\". However, despite the credit, Wallace had very little to do with the story or the character. In an interview, author-artist Joe DeVito explains:\n\nThis conclusion about Wallace's contribution was verified in the book \"The Making of King Kong\", by Orville Goldner and George E. Turner (1975). Wallace died of pneumonia complicated by diabetes on February 10, 1932, and Cooper later said, \"Actually, Edgar Wallace didn't write any of \"Kong\", not one bloody word...I'd promised him credit and so I gave it to him\" (p. 59).\n\nCooper issued a reprint of the novelization in 1965 that was published by Bantam Books. Some time later the copyright expired and the publishing rights to the book fell into the public domain. Since then a myriad of publishers have reprinted the novelization numerous times. Blackstone Audio produced an audio recording of the book in 2005 narrated by Stefan Rudnicki, while StarWarp Concepts released an Ebook version complete with 6 new illustrations from pulp-comic artist Paul Tuma in 2017.\n\nOutside of the novelization, the film was serialized in a pulp magazine. In 1933, \"Mystery\" magazine published a \"King Kong\" serial under the byline of Edgar Wallace, and written by Walter F. Ripperger. This serialization was published into two parts in the February and March issues of the magazine.\n\nIn the U.K, the film was serialized in 2 different pulps both on October 28, 1933. In the juvenile \"Boys Magazine\" (Vol 23. No. 608). where the serialization was uncredited, and in that month's issue of \"Cinema Weekly\" where it was credited to Edgar Wallace and written by Draycott Montagu Dell (1888–1940). This short story adaptation would later appear in the Peter Haining book called \"Movie Monsters\" in 1988, published by Severn House in the UK.\n\nIn 1977, a novelization of the 1976 remake of \"King Kong\" was published by Ace Books. This novelization was called \"The Dino De Laurentiis Production of King Kong\" and was simply the 1976 Lorenzo Semple Jr. script published in book form. The cover was done by Frank Frazetta.\n\nIn 1994 Anthony Browne wrote and illustrated a book called \"Anthony Browne's King Kong\". Credited as \"From the Story Conceived by Edgar Wallace & Merian C. Cooper\", the book was published by the Turner Publishing Company. It was re-released as a paperback in the U.K in 2005 by Picture Corgi.\n\nTo coincide with the 2005 remake of \"King Kong\", various books were released to tie into the film. A novelization was written by Christopher Golden based on the screenplay by Fran Walsh, Philippa Boyens, and Peter Jackson. Matt Costello wrote an official prequel to the film called \"King Kong: The Island of the Skull\". These books were published by Pocket Books. Various illustrated juvenile books were published, as well, by Harper Books: \"Kong's Kingdom\" was written by Julia Simon-Kerr; \"Meet Kong and Ann\" and \"Journey to Skull Island\" were written by Jennifer Franz; \"Escape from Skull Island\" and \"Kong: The Eighth Wonder of the World—Junior Novel\" were written by Laura J. Burns; \"The Search for Kong\" was written by Catherine Hapka; and finally, a Deluxe Sound Storybook of \"Kong: The Eighth Wonder of the World\" was written by Don Curry. Weta Workshop released a collection of concept art from the film entitled \"The World of Kong: A Natural History of Skull Island\" that was published by Pocket Books. The book was written and designed to resemble and read like an actual nature guide and historical record.\n\nIn 2005, Ibooks, Inc., published an unofficial book featuring King Kong called \"Kong Reborn\" by Russell Blackford.\n\nStarting in 2004, artist/writer Joe Devito began working with the Merian C. Cooper estate to write and/or illustrate various books based on the King Kong character. The first of these was an origin story labeled as an authorized sequel/prequel to the 1932 novelization of \"King Kong\" called \"Kong: King of Skull Island\". This illustrated hardcover novel was published in 2004 by DH Press and featured a story Devito co-wrote with Brad Strickland and John Michlig. It also included an introduction by Ray Harryhausen. A large-paperback edition was then released in 2005, with extra pages at the end of the book. As well, a CD audiobook narrated by Joey D'Auria was released by RadioArchives, and an interactive two-part app was released in 2011 and 2013 respectively by Copyright 1957 LLC. In 2005, DeVito and Strickland co-wrote another book together called \"Merian C. Cooper's King Kong\" for the Merian C. Cooper Estate. This book was published by St. Martin's Press. It was a full rewrite of the original 1932 novelization, which updates the language and paleontology and adds five new chapters. Some additional elements and characters tie into \"Kong: King of Skull Island\" enabling the two separate books to form a continuous storyline.\nIn 2013, the first of two books featuring crossovers with pulp heroes was published. To coincide with the 80th anniversary of both King Kong and Doc Savage, Altus Press published \"Doc Savage: Skull Island\" in both softcover and hardcover editions. This officially sanctioned book was written by Will Murray and based on concepts by DeVito. In 2016, Altus Press published the other crossover book, this time featuring a meeting between King Kong and Tarzan. The novel, called \"King Kong vs. Tarzan\", was once again written by Will Murray and featured artwork by Devito. In 2018, a new book featuring another origin story written and illustrated by Devito was released called \"King Kong of Skull Island\".\n\nIn March 2017, to coincide with the release of \"\", Titan Books released a novelization of the film written by Tim Lebbon and a hardcover book \"The Art and Making of Kong: Skull Island\" by Simon Ward.\n\nOver the decades, there have been numerous comic books based on King Kong by various comic-book publishers. For details on this aspect of the character's print media appearances see King Kong (comics).\n\nIn his first appearance in \"King Kong\" (1933), Kong was a gigantic prehistoric ape, or as RKO's publicity materials described him, \"\"A prehistoric type of ape\".\" While gorilla-like in appearance, he had a vaguely humanoid look and at times walked upright in an anthropomorphic manner. Indeed, Carl Denham describes him as being \"\"neither beast nor man\".\n\nLike most simians, Kong possesses semi-human intelligence and great physical strength. Kong's size changes drastically throughout the course of the film. While creator Merian C. Cooper envisioned Kong as being \" tall\"\", animator Willis O'Brien and his crew built the models and sets scaling Kong to be only tall on Skull Island, and rescaled to be tall in New York.\n\nThis did not stop Cooper from playing around with Kong's size as he directed the special effect sequences; by manipulating the sizes of the miniatures and the camera angles, he made Kong appear a lot larger than O'Brien wanted, even as large as in some scenes.\n\nAs Cooper stated in an interview:\n\nIn the 1960s, Toho Studios from Japan licensed the character for the films \"King Kong vs Godzilla\" and \"King Kong Escapes\". For more details on these versions of the character see below.\n\nIn 1975, Italian producer Dino De Laurentiis paid RKO for the remake rights to \"King Kong\". This resulted in \"King Kong\" (1976). This Kong was an upright walking anthropomorphic ape, appearing even more human-like than the original. Also like the original, this Kong had semi-human intelligence and vast strength. In the 1976 film, Kong was scaled to be tall on Skull island and rescaled to be tall in New York. Ten years later, Dino De Laurentiis got the approval from Universal to do a sequel called \"King Kong Lives\". This Kong had more or less the same appearance and abilities, but tended to walk on his knuckles more often and was enlarged, scaled to .\n\nUniversal Studios had planned to do a King Kong remake as far back as 1976. They finally followed through almost 30 years later, with a three-hour film directed by Peter Jackson. Jackson opted to make Kong a gigantic silverback gorilla without any anthropomorphic features. This Kong looked and behaved more like a real gorilla: he had a large herbivore's belly, walked on his knuckles without any upright posture, and even beat his chest with his palms as opposed to clenched fists. In order to ground his Kong in realism, Jackson and the Weta Digital crew gave a name to his fictitious species \"Megaprimatus kong\" and suggested it to have evolved from the \"Gigantopithecus\". Kong was the last of his kind. He was portrayed in the film as being quite old, with graying fur and battle-worn with scars, wounds, and a crooked jaw from his many fights against rival creatures. He is the dominant being on the island, the king of his world. But, like his film predecessors, he possesses considerable intelligence and great physical strength; he also appears far more nimble and agile. This Kong was scaled to a consistent height of tall on both Skull Island and in New York. Jackson describes his central character: \n\nIn the 2017 film \"\", Kong is scaled to be tall, making it the biggest incarnation in the series. Director Jordan Vogt-Roberts stated in regards to Kong's immense stature: He also stated that the original 1933 look was the inspiration for the design, saying: Co-producer Mary Parent also stated that Kong is still young and not fully grown as she explains, \"Kong is an adolescent when we meet him in the film; he's still growing into his role as alpha\".\n\nWhile one of the most famous movie icons in history, King Kong's intellectual property status has been questioned since his creation, featuring in numerous allegations and court battles. The rights to the character have always been split up with no single exclusive rights holder. Different parties have also contested that various aspects are public domain material and therefore ineligible for copyright status.\n\nWhen Merian C. Cooper created King Kong, he assumed that he owned the character, which he had conceived in 1929, outright. Cooper maintained that he had only licensed the character to RKO for the initial film and sequel but had otherwise owned his own creation. In 1935, Cooper began to feel something was amiss when he was trying to get a \"Tarzan vs. King Kong\" project off the ground for Pioneer Pictures (where he had assumed management of the company). After David O. Selznick suggested the project to Cooper, the flurry of legal activity over using the Kong character that followed—Pioneer had become a completely independent company by this time and access to properties that RKO felt were theirs was no longer automatic—gave Cooper pause as he came to realize that he might not have full control over this product of his own imagination.\n\nYears later in 1962, Cooper found out that RKO was licensing the character through John Beck to Toho studios in Japan for a film project called \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\". Cooper had assumed his rights were unassailable and was bitterly opposed to the project. In 1963 he filed a lawsuit to enjoin distribution of the movie against John Beck as well as Toho and Universal (the film's U.S. copyright holder). Cooper discovered that RKO had also profited from licensed products featuring the King Kong character such as model kits produced by Aurora Plastics Corporation. Cooper's executive assistant, Charles B FitzSimons, stated that these companies should be negotiating through him and Cooper for such licensed products and not RKO. In a letter to Robert Bendick, Cooper stated:\nCooper and his legal team offered up various documents to bolster the case that Cooper owned King Kong and had only licensed the character to RKO for two films, rather than selling him outright. Many people vouched for Cooper's claims including David O. Selznick, who had written a letter to Mr. A. Loewenthal of the Famous Artists Syndicate in Chicago in 1932 stating (in regard to Kong), \"The rights of this are owned by Mr. Merian C. Cooper.\" But Cooper had lost key documents through the years (he discovered these papers were missing after he returned from his World War II military service) such as a key informal yet binding letter from Mr. Ayelsworth (then president of the RKO Studio Corp.) and a formal binding letter from Mr. B. B. Kahane (the current president of RKO Studio Corp.) confirming that Cooper had only licensed the rights to the character for the two RKO pictures and nothing more.\n\nWithout these letters it seemed Cooper's rights were relegated to the Lovelace novelization that he had copyrighted (he was able to make a deal for a Bantam Books paperback reprint and a Gold Key comic adaptation of the novel, but that was all he could do). Cooper's lawyer had received a letter from John Beck's lawyer, Gordon E Youngman, that stated:\n\nIn a letter addressed to Douglas Burden, Cooper lamented:\n\nThe rights over the character did not flare up again until 1975, when Universal Studios and Dino De Laurentiis were fighting over who would be able to do a \"King Kong\" remake for release the following year. De Laurentiis came up with $200,000 to buy the remake rights from RKO. When Universal got wind of this, they filed a lawsuit against RKO claiming that they had a verbal agreement from them regarding the remake. During the legal battles that followed, which eventually included RKO countersuing Universal, as well as De Laurentiis filing a lawsuit claiming interference, Colonel Richard Cooper (Merian's son and now head of the Cooper estate) jumped into the fray.\n\nDuring the battles, Universal discovered that the copyright of the Lovelace novelization had expired without renewal, thus making the \"King Kong\" story a public domain one. Universal argued that they should be able to make a movie based on the novel without infringing on anyone's copyright because the characters in the story were in the public domain within the context of the public domain story. Richard Cooper then filed a cross-claim against RKO claiming while the publishing rights to the novel had not been renewed, his estate still had control over the plot/story of King Kong.\n\nIn a four-day bench trial in Los Angeles, Judge Manuel Real made the final decision and gave his verdict on November 24, 1976, affirming that the \"King Kong\" novelization and serialization were indeed in the public domain, and Universal could make its movie as long as it did not infringe on original elements in the 1933 RKO film, which had \"not\" passed into public domain. (Universal postponed their plans to film a King Kong movie, called \"The Legend of King Kong\", for at least 18 months, after cutting a deal with Dino De Laurentiis that included a percentage of box office profits from his remake.)\n\nHowever, on December 6, 1976, Judge Real made a subsequent ruling, which held that all the rights in the name, character, and story of King Kong (outside of the original film and its sequel) belonged to Merian C. Cooper's estate. This ruling, which became known as the \"Cooper Judgment,\" expressly stated that it would not change the previous ruling that publishing rights of the novel and serialization were in the public domain. It was a huge victory that affirmed the position Merian C. Cooper had maintained for years. Shortly thereafter, Richard Cooper sold all his rights (excluding worldwide book and periodical publishing rights) to Universal in December 1976. In 1980 Judge Real dismissed the claims that were brought forth by RKO and Universal four years earlier and reinstated the Cooper judgement.\n\nIn 1982 Universal filed a lawsuit against Nintendo, which had created an impish ape character called Donkey Kong in 1981 and was reaping huge profits over the video game machines. Universal claimed that Nintendo was infringing on its copyright because Donkey Kong was a blatant rip-off of King Kong. During the court battle and subsequent appeal, the courts ruled that Universal did not have exclusive trademark rights to the King Kong character. The courts ruled that trademark was not among the rights Cooper had sold to Universal, indicating that \"Cooper plainly did not obtain any trademark rights in his judgment against RKO, since the California district court specifically found that King Kong had no secondary meaning.\" While they had a majority of the rights, they did not outright own the King Kong name and character. The courts ruling noted that the name, title, and character of Kong no longer signified a single source of origin so exclusive trademark rights were impossible. The courts also pointed out that Kong rights were held by three parties:\n\nThe judge then ruled that \"Universal thus owns only those rights in the King Kong name and character that RKO, Cooper, or DDL do not own.\"\n\nThe court of appeals would also note:\nBecause Universal misrepresented their degree of ownership of King Kong (claiming they had exclusive trademark rights when they knew they did not) and tried to have it both ways in court regarding the \"public domain\" claims, the courts ruled that Universal acted in bad faith (see \"Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Nintendo Co., Ltd.\"). They were ordered to pay fines and all of Nintendo's legal costs from the lawsuit. That, along with the fact that the courts ruled that there was simply no likelihood of people confusing Donkey Kong with King Kong, caused Universal to lose the case and the subsequent appeal.\n\nSince the court case, Universal still retains the majority of the character rights. In 1986 they opened a King Kong ride called \"King Kong Encounter\" at their Universal Studios Tour theme park in Hollywood (which was destroyed in 2008 by a backlot fire), and followed it up with the Kongfrontation ride at their Orlando park in 1990 (which was closed down in 2002 due to maintenance issues). They also finally made a King Kong film of their own, \"King Kong\" (2005). In the summer of 2010, Universal opened a new 3D King Kong ride called at their Hollywood park replacing the destroyed \"King Kong Encounter\". On July 13, 2016, Universal opened a new King Kong attraction called \"\" at Islands of Adventure in Orlando. In July 2013, Legendary Pictures reached an agreement with Universal in which it will market, co-finance, and distribute Legendary's films for five years starting in 2014, the year that Legendary's similar agreement with Warner Bros. was set to expire. Later, in July 2014 at the San Diego Comic-Con, Legendary announced (product of its partnership with Universal), a King Kong origin story, initially titled \"Skull Island\", with Universal distributing. On December 12, 2014, the studio announced they had re-titled the film \"\". On September 10, 2015, it was announced that Universal would let Legendary Pictures move \"Kong: Skull Island\" to Warner Bros., so they could do a King Kong and Godzilla crossover film (in the continuity of the Godzilla movie of 2014), since Legendary Pictures still had the rights to do the two Godzilla sequels with Warner Bros.\n\nThe Cooper estate (Richard M. Cooper LLC) retains publishing rights for the content they claim. In 1990 they licensed a six-issue comic book adaptation of the story to Monster Comics, and commissioned an illustrated novel in 1994 called \"Anthony Browne's King Kong\". In 2013 they became involved with a musical stage play based on the story, called \"King Kong The Eighth Wonder of the World\" which premiered on June 2013 in Australia and will come to Broadway in November 2018. The production is involved with Global Creatures, the company behind the \"Walking with Dinosaurs\" arena show. Starting in 2004, artist/writer Joe Devito began working with the Merian C. Cooper estate to write and/or illustrate various books and comics based on the King Kong character with his company Devito Artworks. These included a pair of origin novels, an origin themed comic series with Boom! Studios, a rewrite of the original Lovelace novelization (the original novelization's publishing rights are still in the public domain), as well as various crossovers with other franchises such as Doc Savage, Tarzan and The Planet of the Apes. Also the company licensed a soft drink with RocketFizz called \"King Kong Cola\" and have plans for a live action TV show to be co-produced between MarVista Entertainment and IM Global. In April 2016, Joe DeVito sued Legendary Pictures and Warner Bros, producers of the film \"\", for using elements of his Skull Island universe, which he claimed that he created and the producers used without his permission.\n\nRKO (whose rights consisted of only the original film and its sequel) had its film library acquired by Ted Turner in 1986 via his company Turner Entertainment. Turner merged his company into Time Warner in 1996, which is how they own the rights to those two films today, although the copyright over the entire RKO films library (including King Kong and The Son Of Kong) is still held by RKO Pictures LLC. In 2017, Warner Brothers co-produced the film \"\" and in 2020 will co-produce the film \"Godzilla vs. Kong\", after Legendary Pictures brought the projects from Universal to their company to build a shared cinematic universe.\n\nDDL (whose rights were limited to only their 1976 remake) did a sequel in 1986 called \"King Kong Lives\" (but they still needed Universal's permission to do so). Today most of DDL's film library is owned by Studio Canal, which includes the rights to those two films. The domestic (North American) rights to the 1976 \"King Kong\" film still remain with the film's original distributor Paramount Pictures, with Trifecta Entertainment & Media handling television rights to the film via their license with Paramount.\n\nIn the 1960s, Japanese studio Toho licensed the character from RKO and produced two films that featured the character, \"King Kong vs Godzilla\" (1962) and \"King Kong Escapes\" (1967). Toho's interpretation differed greatly from the original in size and abilities.\n\nAmong kaiju, King Kong was suggested to be among the most powerful in terms of raw physical force, possessing strength and durability that rivaled that of Godzilla. As one of the few mammal-based kaiju, Kong's most distinctive feature was his intelligence. He demonstrated the ability to learn and adapt to an opponent's fighting style, identify and exploit weaknesses in an enemy, and utilize his environment to stage ambushes and traps.\n\nIn \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\", Kong was scaled to be tall. This version of Kong was given the ability to harvest electricity as a weapon. In \"King Kong Escapes\", Kong was scaled to be tall. This version was more similar to the original, where he relied on strength and intelligence to fight and survive. Rather than residing on Skull Island, Toho's version resided on Faro Island in \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\" and on Mondo Island in \"King Kong Escapes\".\n\nIn 1966, Toho planned to produce \"Operation Robinson Crusoe: King Kong vs. Ebirah\" as a co-production with Rankin/Bass Productions however, Ishirō Honda was unavailable at the time to direct the film and Rankin/Bass backed out of the project, along with the King Kong license. Toho still proceeded with the production, replacing King Kong with Godzilla at the last minute and shot the film as \"Ebirah, Horror of the Deep\". Elements of King Kong's character remained in the film, reflected in Godzilla's uncharacteristic behavior and attraction to the female character Dayo. Toho and Rankin/Bass later negotiated their differences and co-produced \"King Kong Escapes\" in 1967, loosely based on Rankin/Bass' animated show.\n\nToho Studios wanted to remake \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\", which was the most successful of the entire Godzilla series of films, in 1991 to celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the film as well as to celebrate Godzilla's upcoming fortieth anniversary. However they were unable to obtain the rights to use Kong, and inititially intended to use Mechani-Kong as Godzilla's next adversary. But it was soon learned that even using a mechanical creature who \"resembled\" Kong would be just as problematic legally and financially for them. As a result, the film became \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\", with no further attempts to use Kong in any way.\n\n\n\n\nThere were other movies to have borne the \"King Kong\" name that have nothing to do with the character.\n\n\nVarious electronic games featuring King Kong have been released through the years by numerous companies. These range from handheld LCD games, to video games, to pinball machines.\n\nTiger Electronics released various King Kong games in the early 1980s. These include\n\nEpoch Co. released two LCD games in 1982. One was \"King Kong: New York\", and the other was \"King Kong: Jungle\"\n\nKonami released 2 games based on the film \"King Kong Lives\" in 1986. The first game was \"\" for the Famicom, and the second was \"\", for the MSX computer. In 1988, Konami featured the character in the crossover game \"Konami Wai Wai World\". All these games were only released in Japan.\n\nData East released a pinball game called \"King Kong-The Eighth Wonder of the World\" in 1990.\n\nIn 1992, Nintendo produced an educational game called \"Mario is Missing\" that features a treasure hunt level involving King Kong in New York City. The character is represented by images of his arm grabbing the Empire State Building in the NES version and a full body statue in the SNES version.\n\nBam! Entertainment released a Game Boy Advance game based on \"\" in 2002.\n\nMGA Entertainment released an electronic handheld King Kong game (packaged with a small figurine) in 2003.\n\nMajesco Entertainment released a Game Boy Advance game based on the straight to video animated film \"Kong: King of Atlantis\" in 2005.\n\nIn 2005, Ubisoft released 2 video games based on the film \"King Kong\". \"\" was released on all video game platforms, while \"\" was released for the Game Boy Advance. Also to tie into the film, Gameloft released \"King Kong: The Official Mobile Game of the Movie\" for mobile phones, while Radio Shack released a miniature pinball game.\n\nTaiyo Elec Co released a \"King Kong\" Pachinko game in 2007.\n\nKing Kong has been featured in various online casino games. NYX gaming developed a King Kong online video slot casino game in 2016. In 2017, Ainsworth Game Technology developed 2 licensed King Kong casino games. King Kong and Kong of Skull Island, while in 2018, NExtGen Gaming released a game called King Kong Fury.\n\nKing Kong appears in the Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment game \"Lego Dimensions\". He appears as a boss in \"The Lego Batman Movie\" pack.\n\nBesides starring in his own games, King Kong was the obvious influence behind other gigantic city destroying apes, such as George from the \"Rampage\" series, Woo from \"King of the Monsters\" (who was modeled after the Toho version of the character), and Congar from \"War of the Monsters\". As well as giant apes worshiped as deities like Chaos and Blizzard from \"Primal Rage\".\n\nKing Kong, as well as the series of films featuring him, have been featured many times in popular culture outside of the films themselves, in forms ranging from straight copies to parodies and joke references, and in media from comics to video games.\nThe Beatles' 1968 animated film \"Yellow Submarine\" includes a scene of the characters opening a door to reveal King Kong abducting a woman from her bed.\n\n\"The Simpsons\" episode \"Treehouse of Horror III\" features a segment called \"King Homer\" which parodies the plot of the original film, with Homer as Kong and Marge in the Ann Darrow role. It ends with King Homer marrying Marge and eating her father.\n\nThe British comedy TV series \"The Goodies\" made an episode called \"Kitten Kong\", in which a giant cat called Twinkle roams the streets of London, knocking over the British Telecom Tower.\n\nThe controversial World War II Dutch resistance fighter Christiaan Lindemans — eventually arrested on suspicion of having betrayed secrets to the Nazis — was nicknamed \"King Kong\" due to his being exceptionally tall.\n\nFrank Zappa and The Mothers of Invention recorded an instrumental about \"King Kong\" in 1967 and featured it on the album \"Uncle Meat\". Zappa went on to make many other versions of the song on albums such as \"Make a Jazz Noise Here\", \"You Can't Do That on Stage Anymore, Vol. 3\", \"Ahead of Their Time\", and \"Beat the Boots\".\n\nThe Kinks recorded a song called \"King Kong\" as the B-side to their 1969 \"Plastic Man\" single.\n\nIn 1972, a fiberglass statue of King Kong was erected in Birmingham, England.\n\nThe second track of The Jimmy Castor Bunch album \"Supersound\" from 1975 is titled \"King Kong\".\n\nFilk Music artists Ookla the Mok's \"Song of Kong\", which explores the reasons why King Kong and Godzilla should not be roommates, appears on their 2001 album \"Smell No Evil\".\n\nDaniel Johnston wrote and recorded a song called \"King Kong\" on his fifth self-released music cassette, \"Yip/Jump Music\" in 1983, rereleased on CD and double LP by Homestead Records in 1988. The song is an a cappella narrative of the original movie's story line. Tom Waits recorded a cover version of the song with various sound effects on the 2004 release, \"\".\n\nABBA recorded \"King Kong Song\" for their 1974 album \"Waterloo\". Although later singled out by ABBA songwriters Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus as one of their weakest tracks., it was released as a single in 1977 to coincide with the 1976 film playing in theatres.\n\nUniversal Studios has had popular King Kong attractions at Universal Studios Hollywood in Universal City, California and Universal Orlando Resort in Orlando, Florida.\n\nThe first King Kong attraction was called King Kong Encounter and was a part of the Studio Tour at Universal Studios Hollywood. Based upon the 1976 film \"King Kong\", the tour took the guests in the world of 1976 New York City, where Kong was seen wreaking havoc on the city. It was opened on June 14, 1986 and was destroyed on June 1, 2008 in a major fire. Universal opened a replacement 3D King Kong ride called \"\" that opened on July 1, 2010, based upon Peter Jackson's 2005 film \"King Kong\".\n\nA second more elaborate ride was constructed at Universal Studios Florida on June 7, 1990, called Kongfrontation. The ride featured a stand-alone extended version of King Kong Encounter and pinned guests escaping on the Roosevelt Island Tramway from Kong who was rampaging across New York City. The ride was closed down on September 8, 2002, and was replaced with Revenge of the Mummy on May 21, 2004.\n\nOn May 6, 2015, Universal Orlando announced that a new King Kong attraction titled \"\" will open at Islands of Adventure in the summer of 2016, making it the first King Kong themed ride in Orlando since Kongfrontation closed down 14 years earlier at Universal Studios Florida. It officially opened on July 13, 2016.\n\nA man-eating giant gorilla is featured in Henry Rider Haggard's \"The Holy Flower\", a 1915 novel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6039598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6039598", "title": "Looting of the Eastern Mausoleum", "text": "Looting of the Eastern Mausoleum\n\nThe Looting of the Eastern Mausoleum was an incident in which some of the major mausoleums of the Chinese Qing dynasty in the Eastern Qing Tombs were looted by troops under the command of the warlord Sun Dianying.\n\nIn the early hours of June 8, 1928, warlord Sun Dianying led his army into the Eastern Mausoleums of the Qing dynasty in Malanyu, northwest of Zunhua, Hebei. This was the final resting place of the Qing emperors and empresses, and was about 120 kilometers (75 miles) from the Forbidden City of Peking. The 78-square-kilometer (30.1-square-mile) burial site was for five emperors, 15 empresses and 136 imperial concubines within 15 tombs, including the Shunzhi Emperor (1638–61), the Kangxi Emperor (1654–1722), the Qianlong Emperor (1711–99) and Empress Dowager Cixi (1835–1908).\n\nOn June 12, 1928, Sun Dianying ordered a large-scale graverobbing operation that removed almost all the underground funeral objects of the Huifeiling and Yuling Mausoleums and the underground palace of Puxiangyu East Dingling. Ma Futian, Regimental Commander in the 28th Army of Zhang Zuolin, had quietly occupied Malanyu. Sun Dianying ordered Tan Wenjiang, one of his division commanders, to capture the tomb area. At dawn on July 2, Ma Futian was driven away and Tan's army looted the mausoleums in Malanyu. After that, Sun's army went straight to the area of the Eastern Qing Tombs, pretending to engage in war exercises in the area. Tan Wenjiang placed policemen all around, denying access to the area and signs declared the army was \"protecting the Tombs\" to prevent interference.\n\nThe looting operation was directed by Sun Dianying from his car. Trucks were on hand to speed away with the loot as soon as they were loaded. At midnight the engineering corps blew up the entrance, opening the passage leading to the underground palace. The stone door was pried open to give access to the rear room of the grave. Sun gave first priority to officers above battalion commander level to collect treasure for themselves. Ordinary soldiers were eventually allowed to take the leftovers.\n\nThe robbers first took the large treasure objects placed around the remains of Empress Dowager Cixi, such as jadeite watermelons, grasshoppers and vegetables, jade lotus and coral. They snatched objects found beneath the body and ravaged the corpse itself, taking her imperial robe; tearing off her undergarments, shoes and socks, and taking all the pearls and jewels on her body. The looters even pried open her jaws and took the rare pearl from her mouth. Ultimately, they looted the objects under the coffin that had been favorites of Cixi when she was alive.\n\nWhile Tan Wenjiang was robbing Cixi's tomb, Han Dabao, a brigade commander under Sun Dianying, led another group to the Yuling Mausoleum and declared his intention to conduct a war exercise. They blew the entrance and doorways of the underground palace and rushed into the tomb. The coffins of the Qianlong Emperor and his two empresses and three concubines were pried open, all the valuables looted and the skeletons thrown into the mud. The soldiers then rushed to the Yuling Mausoleum and the underground palace of Puxiangyu East Dingling and looted what they could.\n\nNewspapers reported the graverobbing and the news spread throughout China and around the world. People were outraged. China's dethroned last emperor Puyi, who had dismissed Sun from his post, sent telegrams to Chiang Kai-shek; Yan Xishan, Commander of Garrison Force in Beijing; the Central Committee of Kuomintang and local newspapers asking them to punish Sun Dianying severely. Many others also called for punishment. However, Sun Dianying bribed those who were in a position to discipline him and nothing was done.\n\nAfter removing the treasures from the graves, Sun and his army sealed the empty chambers with stones. They carted off some of China's greatest treasures, but some things could not be easily removed and the imposing buildings of the mausoleum still survive.\n"}
{"id": "12758025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12758025", "title": "MUX (The Hardy Boys)", "text": "MUX (The Hardy Boys)\n\nMUX, Incorporated is a company in the fictional, The Hardy Boys Casefiles book series. The word mux is an abbreviation of the word multiplexer, which is a communications switching device. \n\nAt the time of Casefiles #21 \"Street Spies\", MUX was a multinational front for a band of technology pirates, in New York City, that were stealing new product ideas from world leaders in miniaturized transmitters and receivers (like \"World-Wide Technologies\") after the products were out of the expensive design and development stage. Then they would tap the enormous Third-World labor pool and sell the products much cheaper than companies like \"World-Wide Technologies\" could. The Hardys ended up catching the MUX agent in charge of that particular operation, Louise Trent and her strong-arm man, Chung Lei. The rest of MUX stayed intact and left the USA. Later, at the time of Casefile #37, they came back to the country to steal a highly advanced computer chip created by \"Prometheus Computing\". But the Hardys again managed to foil MUX’s plan and catch the agents involved, even so the group is still a large.\n\nIn Casefile #21 the company’s finances were funneled through off-shore banks in the Caribbean and in Panama. Its products were shipped through Taiwan from other countries on the Pacific Rim. \n\nThe Hardys have never been able to find out who the mastermind behind MUX is — the mastermind who has covered himself (or herself) with layers upon layers of umbrella organizations.\n"}
{"id": "1514566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1514566", "title": "Mating pool", "text": "Mating pool\n\nA mating pool is a concept used in evolutionary computation. More specifically, it is one of the four steps in genetic algorithm operations that places value on the fitness of individuals in a population. \n\nTypically, the population of candidate solutions for a genetic algorithm is treated as a single entity. An alternative approach is to separate only individuals who will produce offspring from the remainder of the current population. These are placed into a \"mating pool\".\n\nSelection operators are applied to the entire population in order to determine the fittest individuals of the current population, which are then placed into the mating pool. Genetic operations, such as crossover and mutation, are then applied to the mating pool to create the next generation.\n\nThere are multiple ways to create a mating pool, including selecting the best individuals based on certain criteria, known as truncation selection, and choosing individuals randomly with the probability of being chosen based on fitness level, known as fitness proportionate selection. Additionally, a random sub-group can be selected from the population and then the individuals with the highest fitness are selected for the mating pool, known as tournament selection.\n"}
{"id": "691322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691322", "title": "Norm Cash", "text": "Norm Cash\n\nNorman Dalton Cash (November 10, 1934 – October 11, 1986) was an American Major League Baseball first baseman who spent almost his entire career with the Detroit Tigers. An outstanding power hitter, his 377 career home runs were the fourth most by an American League left-handed hitter when he retired, behind Babe Ruth, Ted Williams and Lou Gehrig; his 373 home runs with the Tigers rank second in franchise history behind his teammate Al Kaline (399). He also led the AL in assists three times and fielding percentage twice; he ranked among the all-time leaders in assists (4th, 1317) and double plays (10th, 1347) upon his retirement, and was fifth in AL history in games at first base (1943). He was known to fans and teammates during his playing days as \"Stormin' Norman.\"\n\nCash was born in Justiceburg, Garza County, Texas, and attended (what was then) Sul Ross State Teachers College, where he was All-Lone Star Conference in football as well as playing baseball; he was drafted by the Chicago Bears as a running back in 1955, but declined to play pro football. After signing with the Chicago White Sox in 1955, he spent 1957 in the military and made his debut with the team in , seeing limited play as an outfielder and pinch hitter. He appeared in 58 games for the AL pennant-winners; the August 25 acquisition of Ted Kluszewski left him on the White Sox bench. He was hitless in four pinch-hitting appearances in the World Series. In December of that year, he was traded to the Cleveland Indians in an eight-player deal that brought Minnie Miñoso back to Chicago, but the Indians general manager Frank Lane traded Cash to Detroit for Steve Demeter, who would play only four more games; both Chicago and Cleveland were haunted by Cash for the next 15 years, as he won a batting title in 1961 and a World Series ring in 1968 wearing a Detroit uniform.\n\nCash filled the middle of the Tigers lineup for 15 seasons as part of one of the sport's top offenses.\n\nIn 1960, Cash grounded into no double plays, the first American League player to accomplish that since league records on this stat were started in 1940.\n\nHe enjoyed his breakout season in . He led the AL with a .361 average, and had 41 home runs (sixth in the AL), 132 runs batted in (fourth), 119 runs scored (fourth), 124 walks (second) for a .488 on-base percentage (first), and 354 total bases (second) for a .662 slugging average (second); but his season was overshadowed by the 61 home runs of Roger Maris, and teammate Rocky Colavito finished with more home runs and RBI. Still, his .361 average would be the highest by any major league player in the 1960s. The Tigers finished 101–61 for their best regular season record since 1934, and scored the most runs in baseball, though they finished second in the AL, eight games behind the New York Yankees; Cash was fourth in the MVP voting. In addition, Cash later admitted to using an illegal corked bat during the 1961 season, demonstrating how he had drilled a hole in his bats and filled it with a mixture of sawdust, cork and glue. His 1961 statistics turned out to be career highs which he rarely approached again – in later years, he never reached 100 runs or 100 RBI, and never batted above .283. His 118-point drop to a .243 average in was the largest ever by a batting champion.\n\nCash later said of the 1961 season: \"It was a freak. Even at the time, I realized that. Everything I hit seemed to drop in, even when I didn't make good contact. I never thought I'd do it again.\"\n\nPitcher Mickey Lolich once asked Cash why he never hit for a high average after that season. \"He told me, `Jim Campbell pays me to hit home runs,'\" said Lolich, referring to the team's general manager in those years. \"Norm then said, `I can get hits if I want to, just watch tomorrow.' The next day he went 3-for-4.\"\n\nOn June 11, 1961, Cash became the first Detroit Tiger to hit a home run ball out of Tiger Stadium. Cash hit the ball over Tiger Stadium's right field roof four times in his career.\n\nOn June 27, 1963, he played an entire game at first base without a chance, as the Minnesota Twins won 10–6.\n\nEven on his own team, Cash was overshadowed by his future Hall-of-Fame roommate Kaline. But while his batting average fell off sharply after 1961, Cash hit 30 or more homers four more times, and at least 20 in ten of the next eleven seasons; he also finished second in the league in home runs three times (behind Harmon Killebrew in 1962, Tony Conigliaro in 1965, and Bill Melton in 1971), with the Tigers finishing among the AL's top three scoring teams every year from 1961 through 1968.\n\nCash was also considered one of the better defensive first basemen of the 1960s, leading the league in putouts (1961), fielding percentage (1964, 1967) and assists (1965–67).\n\nIn the 1968 World Series, Cash hit .385 (10-26) with one home run. With two out in the seventh inning of Game 7, Cash singled to start a three-run rally that broke a scoreless tie and propelled the team to its first title since 1945. He later hit a home run to give Detroit a 1–0 lead in Game 1 of the 1972 American League Championship Series, though the Tigers went on to lose the game and the series.\n\nHe was released by the Tigers in August after hitting .228 in 53 games.\n\nCash was a career .271 hitter with 377 home runs, 1104 RBI, 1046 runs, 1820 hits, 241 doubles, 41 triples, 43 stolen bases, a .374 on-base percentage, and a .488 slugging average in 2089 games. He holds Tigers career defensive records at first base in games (1912), putouts (14,926), assists (1303), and double plays (1328), having broken the marks set by Hank Greenberg and Rudy York. He had a .992 fielding percentage at first base in his career.\n\nCash summed up his success as follows: \"I owe my success to expansion pitching, a short right-field fence, and my hollow bats.\" Later in his career, Cash claimed he used a corked bat in 1961, even showing \"Sports Illustrated\" how he made one.\n\nApart from his batting accomplishments, Cash was a favorite with his teammates, the media, and Tiger fans. He was known for his hard living and his sense of humor.\n\nOn July 15, 1973, as Nolan Ryan was working on his second career no-hitter, Cash went to the plate with two outs in the bottom of the ninth (after striking out his previous three at-bats), holding a table leg from the clubhouse instead of a regulation bat. The stunt drew immediate action by the umpire, who ordered Cash to use a legal bat. Cash popped out using a regulation bat to end the game. \n\nTeammate Jim Northrup told the story as follows: \"In his last at-bat, Norm walked up to the plate with a table leg from the locker room. The plate umpire, Ron Luciano, says, `You can't use that up here.' Cash says, `Why not, I won't hit him anyway.' He then gets a bat, then hit a popup to shortstop to end the game. As he was walking away he says to Luciano, `See, I told ya.'\"\n\n\"When you mention Norm Cash, I just smile\", said Al Kaline, who had a locker adjacent to Cash's for years. \"He was just a fun guy to be around and a great teammate. He always came ready to play.\"\n\nOnce Cash was trapped between first and second base about to be tagged out. He stopped in his tracks and formed a \"T\" with his hands to call time-out. There was also a time when Cash missed a foul ball in the stands, turned a little boy's cap around, stuck his hand into the young fan's popcorn box and said, \"Thanks, kid\", as the boy looked up in bewilderment.\n\nOne trick Cash frequently tried, occurred when play resumed after a rain delay, Northrup recalled. \"If Norman was on second before the rain delay, he would go to third\", Northrup said. \"If he was on first, he would go to second.\" Northrup said: \"Norm had more fun than anybody.\"\n\nCash was also noted for not ever wearing a batting helmet during his major league career, being one of the few veteran players who was permitted not to do so after helmets were mandated in . Protective liners, however, were required to be worn inside their caps.\n\nAfter retiring from baseball, Cash signed with the Detroit Caesars, a professional softball team, and played two seasons (1977–1978). The Caesars played in the American Professional Slow Pitch Softball League (APSPL), winning league titles in both seasons with Cash. The team was owned by Mike Ilitch, who would later become the owner of the Detroit Tigers. The Caesars had extensive talent from the amateur softball leagues, and both Cash and fellow former Tiger Jim Northrup played part-time roles.\n\nCash was a color commentator for ABC's \"Monday Night Baseball\" in 1976, and for Tiger telecasts on ONTV pay-cable from 1981-83.\n\nIn October 1986, Cash drowned in an accident off Beaver Island in northern Lake Michigan when he slipped off a dock and struck his head. His body was discovered about 11 a.m. in 15 feet of water at Beaver Island. An autopsy later revealed that Cash had a blood alcohol content of 0.18 percent at the time of his death. He is buried in Pine Lake Cemetery, West Bloomfield, Michigan.\n\nOn April 23, 2005, the high school and Little League baseball field in Post, Texas were dedicated to Cash. He was inducted into the Texas Sports Hall of Fame in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48712402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48712402", "title": "Parthanatos", "text": "Parthanatos\n\nParthanatos (derived from the Greek Θάνατος, \"Death\") is a form of programmed cell death that is distinct from other cell death processes such as necrosis and apoptosis. While necrosis is caused by acute cell injury resulting in traumatic cell death and apoptosis is a highly controlled process signalled by apoptotic intracellular signals, parthanatos is caused by the accumulation of PAR and the nuclear translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria. Parthanatos is also known as PARP-1 dependent cell death. PARP-1 mediates parthanatos when it is over-activated in response to extreme genomic stress and synthesizes PAR which causes nuclear translocation of AIF. Parthanatos is involved in diseases that afflict hundreds of millions of people worldwide. Well known diseases involving parthanatos include Parkinson's disease, stroke, heart attack, and diabetes. It also has potential use as a treatment for ameliorating disease and various medical conditions such as diabetes and obesity.\n\nThe term parthanatos was not coined until a review in 2009. The word parthanatos is derived from Thanatos, the personification of death in Greek mythology.\n\nParthanatos was first discovered in a 2006 paper by Yu et al. studying the increased production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) by hyperglycemia. This phenomenon is linked with negative effects arising from clinical complications of diabetes and obesity.\n\nResearchers noticed that high glucose-induced overproduction of reactive oxygen species led mitochondria to undergo rapid fragmentation while exposed. Inhibition of mitochondrial pyruvate uptake that blocked ROS increase did not prevent mitochondrial fragmentation. Neither reactive oxygen species increase nor mitochondrial fragmentation were observed after incubating cells with non-metabolizable stereoisomer L-glucose.\n\nWhen mitochondrial pyruvate uptake that blocked ROS increase was inhibited, there was no prevention of mitochondrial fragmentation in high glucose conditions. Ultimately, the researchers found that mitochondrial fragmentation mediated by the fission process is a necessary component for high glucose-induced respiration increase and ROS overproduction. \nExtended exposure to high glucose conditions are similar to untreated diabetic conditions, and so the effects mirror each other. In this condition, the exposure creates a periodic and prolonged increase in ROS production along with mitochondrial morphology change. If mitochondrial fission was inhibited, the periodic fluctuation of ROS production in a high glucose environment was prevented. This research shows that when cell damage to the ROS is too great, PARP-1 will initiate cell death.\n\nPoly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is a nuclear enzyme that is found universally in all eukaryotes and is encoded by the PARP-1 gene. It belongs to the PARP family, which is a group of catalysts that transfer ADP-ribose units from NAD (nicotinamide dinucleotide) to protein targets, thus creating branched or linear polymers. The major domains of PARP-1 impart the ability to fulfill its functions. These protein sections include the DNA-binding domain on the N-terminus (allows PARP-1 to detect DNA breaks), the automodification domain (has a BRCA1 C terminus motif which is key for protein-protein interactions), and a catalytic site with the NAD+-fold (characteristic of mono-ADP ribosylating toxins).\n\nNormally, PARP-1 is involved in a variety of functions that are important for cell homeostasis such as mitosis. Another of these roles is DNA repair, including the repair of base lesions and single-strand breaks. PARP-1 interacts with a wide variety of substrates including histones, DNA helicases, high mobility group proteins, topoisomerases I and II, single-strand break repair factors, base-excision repair factors, and several transcription factors.\n\nPARP-1 accomplishes many of its roles through regulating poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR). PAR is a polymer that varies in length and can be either linear or branched. It is negatively charged which allows it to alter the function of the proteins it binds to either covalently or non-covalently. PAR binding affinity is strongest for branched polymers, weaker for long linear polymers and weakest for short linear polymers. PAR also binds selectively with differing strengths to the different histones. It is suspected that PARP-1 modulates processes (such as DNA repair, DNA transcription, and mitosis) through the binding of PAR to its target proteins.\n\nThe parthanatos pathway is activated by DNA damage caused by genotoxic stress or excitotoxicity. This damage is recognized by the PARP-1 enzyme which causes an upregulation in PAR. PAR causes translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from the mitochondria to the nucleus where it induces DNA fragmentation and ultimately cell death. This general pathway has been outlined now for almost a decade. While considerable success has been made in understanding the molecular events in parthanatos, efforts are still ongoing to completely identify all of the major players within the pathway, as well how spatial and temporal relationships between mediators affect them.\n\nExtreme damage of DNA causing breaks and changes in chromatin structure have been shown to induce the parthanatos pathway. Stimuli that causes the DNA damage can come from a variety of different sources. Methylnitronitrosoguanidine, an alkylating agent, has been widely used in several studies to induce the parthanatos pathway. A noted number of other stimuli or toxic conditions have also been used to cause DNA damage such as H2O2, NO, and ONOO- generation (oxygenglucose deprivation).\nThe magnitude, length of exposure, type of cell used, and purity of the culture, are all factors that can influence the activation of the pathway. The damage must be extreme enough for the chromatin structure to be altered. This change in structure is recognized by the N-terminal zinc-finger domain on the PARP-1 protein. The protein can recognize both single and double DNA breaks.\n\nOnce the PARP-1 protein recognizes the DNA damage, it catalyzes post-transcriptional modification of PAR. PAR will be formed either as a branched or linear molecule. Branching and long-chain polymers will be more toxic to the cell than simple short polymers. The more extreme the DNA damage, the more PAR accumulates in the nucleus. Once enough PAR has accumulated, it will translocate from the nucleus into the cytosol. One study has suggested that PAR can translocate as a free polymer, however translocation of a protein-conjugated PAR cannot be ruled out and is in fact a topic of active research. PAR moves through the cytosol and enters the mitochondria through depolarization. Within the mitochondria, PAR binds directly to the AIF which has a PAR polymer binding site, causing the AIF to dissociate from the mitochondria. AIF is then translocated to the nucleus where it induces chromatin condensation and large scale (50Kb) DNA fragmentation. How AIF induces these effects is still unknown. It is thought that an AIF associated nuclease (PAAN) that is currently unidentified may be present. Human AIF have a DNA binding site that would indicate that AIF binds directly to the DNA in the nucleus directly causing the changes. However, as mice AIF do not have this binding domain and are still able to undergo parthanatos, it is evident that there must be another mechanism involved.\n\nPAR, which is responsible for the activation of AIF, is regulated in the cell by the enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG). After PAR is synthesized by PAR-1, it is degraded through a process catalyzed by PARG. PARG has been found to protect against PAR-mediated cell death while its deletion has increased toxicity through the accumulation of PAR.\n\nBefore the discovery of the PAR and AIF pathway, it was thought that the overactivation of PARP-1 lead to over consumption of NAD+. As a result of NAD+ depletion, a decrease of ATP production would occur, and the resulting loss of energy would kill the cell. However it is now known that this loss of energy would not be enough to account for cell death. In cells lacking PARG, activation of PARP-1 leads to cell death in the presence of ample NAD+.\n\nParthanatos is defined as a unique cell death pathway from apoptosis for a few key reasons. Primarily, apoptosis is dependent on the caspase pathway activated by cytochrome c release, while the parthanatos pathway is able to act independently of caspase. Furthermore, unlike apoptosis, parthanatos causes large scale DNA fragmentation (apoptosis only produces small scale fragmentation) and does not form apoptotic bodies.\nWhile parthanatos does share similarities with necrosis, is also has several differences. Necrosis is not a regulated pathway and does not undergo any controlled nuclear fragmentation. While parthanatos does involve loss of cell membrane integrity like necrosis, it is not accompanied by cell swelling.\n\nThe PAR enzyme was originally connected to neural degradation pathways in 1993. Elevated levels of nitric oxide (NO) have been shown to cause neurotoxicity in samples of rat hippocampal neurons. A deeper look into the effects of NO on neurons showed that nitric oxides cause damage to DNA strands; the damage in turn elicits PAR enzyme activity that leads to further degradation and neuronal death. PAR- blockers halted the cell death mechanisms in the presence of elevated NO levels.\n\nPARP activity has also been linked to the neurodegenerative properties of toxin induced Parkinsonism. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is a neurotoxin that has been linked to neurodegeneration and development of Parkinson Disease-like symptoms in patients since 1983. The MPTP toxin’s effects were discovered when four people were intravenously injecting the toxin that they produced inadvertently when trying to street-synthesise the merpyridine (MPPP) drug. The link between MPTP and PARP was found later when research showed that the MPTP effects on neurons were reduced in mutated cells lacking the PARP gene. The same research also showed highly increased PARP activation in dopamine producing cells in the presence of MPTP.\n\nParthanatos, as a cell death pathway, is being increasingly linked to several syndromes connected with specific tissue damage outside of the nervous system. This is highlighted in the mechanism of streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetes. STZ is a chemical that is naturally produced by the human body. However, in high doses, STZ has been shown to produce diabetic symptoms by damaging pancreatic β cells, which are insulin-producing. The degradation of β cells by STZ was linked to PARP in 1980 when studies showed that a PAR synthesis inhibitor reduced STZ’s effects on insulin synthesis. Inhibition of PARP causes pancreatic tissue to sustain insulin synthesis levels, and reduce β cell degradation even with elevated STZ toxin levels.\n\nPARP activation has also been preliminarily connected with arthritis, colitis, and liver toxicity.\n\nThe multi-step nature of the parthanatos pathway allows for chemical manipulation of its activation and inhibition for use in therapy. This rapidly developing field seems to be currently focused on the use of PARP blockers as treatments for chronically degenerative illnesses. This culminated in 3rd generation inhibitors such as midazoquinolinone and isoquinolindione currently going to clinical trials.\n\nAnother path for treatments is to recruit the parthanatos pathway to induce cancer cells into apoptosis, however no treatments have passed the theoretical stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "41022512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41022512", "title": "Peter To Rot", "text": "Peter To Rot\n\nBlessed Peter To Rot (; 5 March 1912 - 7 July 1945) was a Papuan Roman Catholic. He served as a well-noted and beloved catechist in his village and was entrusted with the local parish during World War II when the Japanese occupied the region. He stood up for religious values in the face of Japanese oppression and continued to hold secret services when the Japanese restricted him from active pastoral service. To Rot valued marriage - he himself had been married since 1936 - and he was an outspoken critic of Japanese views on taking multiple wives.\n\nHis beatification was celebrated in Papua New Guinea in 1995.\n\nPeter To Rot was born on 5 March 1912 on the New Pomerania island in the then-German New Guinea as the third of six children to Angelo Tu Puia (the well-respected village chief) and Maria Ia Tumul who had both converted to Roman Catholicism in 1898.\n\nHis father taught him the basics of catechism and sent him to the local mission school in 1919 despite the fact that education was not an obligation at the time. He was quite agile in climbing coconut trees and he was more than willing to do this to acquire coconuts for older villages. It was rare for him to be mischievous at school but he was honest and quick to help those in need. In 1930 the parish priest of Rakunai - Father Laufer - asked his father if he would allow To Rot to start his studies for the priesthood. His father said that the time was not right for that but it would be more than appropriate if his son studied to become a catechist. In 1930 he began his studies at Saint Paul's College of the Missionaries of the Sacred Heart in Taliligap after which he was commissioned as a catechist for the parish of Rakunai in 1933 when the local bishop gave him the catechist's cross. To Rot then returned to his village where he would go on to aid Father Laufer. He was an excellent teacher and an organizer of classes for people and he had a Bible on his person at all times.\n\nOn 11 November 1936 he married Paula Ia Varpit and the couple went on to have three children; one died as an infant and another died soon after the war. His final child lived into old age and was born after To Rot's death. The pair were married in a church though some of the local and traditional customs were observed.\n\nOnce the Japanese forces occupied the nation in March 1942 (forcing an Australian garrison out) their soldiers interned all of the foreign missionaries though remained indifferent to religion on the whole. The parish priest left To Rot in charge of his parish and he became its active leader as a result of this. In this role he cared for those who were ill and poor while also aiming to better educate converts. Towards late 1943 the Japanese authorities restricted religious services and a few months later forbade them in full. But To Rot continued to hold them in secret and did not fear the implications on his own life despite the fear of those around him. The destruction of the church a short while later saw him build a \"bush church\" outside the village to hold secret services; he kept records of baptisms and weddings there.\n\nMetepa was married Christian and a policeman who worked for the Japanese; he lusted after a Protestant's wife named Ia Mentil. To Rot and Mentil's father prevented Metepa from kidnapping Mentil as his second wife and the furious officer reported him to his superior Kueka who summoned To Rot. It should be noted that the Japanese authorities had legalised taking a second wife but To Rot opposed this as being the opposite to doctrine. To Rot met Kueka who ordered that he cease his pastoral activities while meanwhile Metepa and another seized Mentil and beat up her husband. But To Rot and the village chief managed to find Mentil and get her back to Rakunai. This event served to augment To Rot's defense of traditional marriage with spies monitoring him to catch him in the act of piousness so as to arrest him. One couple reported him and the police arrested him after finding religious objects in a house search. He was planting vegetables to give to the Japanese when he was arrested on Christmas 1944.\n\nTo Rot was taken to the police headquarters where the chief of the police Meshida asked if he was preaching to which the catechist affirmed. Meshida beat him on the face and the back of his neck and ordered him to be imprisoned. The Methodist chief of Navunaram and the Christian Rakunai chief failed to secure his release even though he told them not to fret over it. He confided to his mother that he would die but assured her that he was more than prepared to die for Jesus Christ if that was the case; he was locked in a small and windowless cell. To Rot was sentenced to two months' imprisonment in the Vunaiara concentration camp. On one occasion his wife and two children came to visit him and she begged him to give up being a catechist so he would remain safe. But To Rot was adamant he would not relinquish his responsibilities to the people. On the date of his death he said to his mother: \"the police told me that, this evening, a Japanese doctor will come to give me some medicine. Surprising since I'm not sick. I suspect this is a trick\". He told his wife to bring his cross and good clothes so he could go to God dressed in proper attire.\n\nHe was given lethal injection in 1945 and then given something to drink. But the guards saw that the poison was slow so made him lie down while the doctor covered his mouth; he was stricken with convulsions and was held down as he died while being struck on the back of his neck with a beam.Upon his death a policeman went to Rakunai and said: \"Your catechist is dead\". The incredulous chief of the village demanded to know what the officers did to To Rot but the officer said: \"He fell ill and died\". His uncle Taura was sent to the prison with Commander Meshida to view To Rot's remains and to take them for burial.His remains were found warm and still curled up with cotton stuffed in his ears and nose with blood and a red scarf wrapped around his neck. The back of his neck was swollen and bore wounds and a clear needle mark was present on his right arm. To Rot's remains were soon buried in Rakunai.\n\nPope Benedict XVI - in 2012 - encouraged all married couples to look to To Rot's \"example of courage\" and he later dispatched Cardinal Joseph Zen Ze-kium to participate in the celebrations at Rabaul to mark the centennial of the late catechist's birth. The pope had discussed To Rot in his \"ad limina\" meeting with the Papuan bishops on 9 June 2012 while the Archbishop of Rabaul Francesco Panfilo issued a pastoral letter around that time addressing the life and example of To Rot.\n\nOn 5 March 2012 the Papuan government issued a series of postage stamps in honor of the centennial of his birth.\n\nThe beatification process began on 14 January 1986 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued the official \"nihil obstat\" to the cause and titled him as a Servant of God; the formal diocesan phase collecting documentation occurred in the Rabaul archdiocese from 21 January 1987 until 30 March 1989 when all documents were sealed in boxes and sent to Rome for the C.C.S. to review. The C.C.S. validated this inquest on 2 June 1989 and after received the Positio dossier from the postulation of the cause in 1991. Theologians approved the dossier's contents on 26 June 1992 as did the C.C.S. members on 1 December 1992. His beatification received approval from Pope John Paul II on 2 April 1993 after the pope confirmed that To Rot had been killed \"in odium fidei\" (in hatred of the faith). John Paul II beatified To Rot on 17 January 1995 while on his visit to Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe current postulator for this cause is Fr. Lucio De Stefano.\n\nHis liturgical feast is affixed to the date of his death as is the norm. He is included in the Roman Rite liturgical calendar in his native Papua New Guinea as well as in the Solomon Islands and in Australia as well as for the Missionaries of the Sacred Heart.\n\n"}
{"id": "24842092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24842092", "title": "Petter Moen", "text": "Petter Moen\n\nPetter Moen (14 February 1901 – 8 September 1944) was a Norwegian resistance member later known for his diaries.\n\nDuring the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany he edited the underground newspaper \"London-Nytt\". He was arrested in February 1944 when the German occupiers discovered several undercover newspapers. Moen spent time imprisoned at Møllergata 19, and he perished during transport to Germany with the ship SS \"Westfalen\" in September 1944. He is particularly known for his diary written with a pin on toilet paper during imprisonment. The manuscript was found after the war and published in 1949 as \"Petter Moens dagbok\"; it has been translated into several languages.\n"}
{"id": "19800736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19800736", "title": "Pokémon Tales", "text": "Pokémon Tales\n\nBooks published in English include:\n\nBoth Shogakukan and Viz published Pokémon Gold and Silver Tales storybooks. Books published in English include:\n\n"}
{"id": "7098952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7098952", "title": "Polong", "text": "Polong\n\nPolong is Malay for a spirit enslaved by a man (most of the time) for personal use. Like the Hantu Raya and Toyol, it has a master. It is an unseen ghost that can be used by a black magic practitioner to harm someone. It is particularly meant to harm other people, especially when the owner has wicked intentions towards these people.\n\nPolong is one of the ghosts mentioned in \"Hikayat Abdullah\", written by Abdullah bin Abdul Kadir, much to the amusement of Sir Thomas Stamford Bingley Raffles, his employer.\n\nPolong is said to have been created from the blood of a murdered person and this blood is put into a bottle for one to two weeks before the spirit is invoked with incantations and magic spells.\n\nAfter two weeks, the owner will start to hear sounds coming out of the bottle. It is the sound of crying. By then he should cut his finger and drain the blood into the bottle to feed the demon. This is the sign of allegiance and of loyalty to serve the master. The blood which feeds the demon is said to have tied both parties together: one as Master and the other as the servant.\n\nNo one has ever illustrated the figure of the demon but all agree that it is evil and hideous. In East Malaysian Malays (Malays of Sarawak, Borneo Island, Malaysia) belief, polong is described as an egg-shaped flying fiery ball when it is sent to victims or when it is left out of the bottle.\n\nPolong has almost a similar role as the grasshopper-like Pelesit, furious when not fed and will start to harm society. Per some sources, such as Judy Sierra's \"Gruesome Guide to World Monsters\", the Polong and Pelesit work in cooperation, with the latter serving as the former's steed.\n\nNormally the owner will keep the Polong inside the bottle but unleashes it when needed. People who have been attacked by Polong are left with bruises, a few markings and almost always have blood coming out of their mouths.\n\nDuring possession, a Polong will not listen to anyone except its owner. The owner will come and pretentiously exorcise the demon in order to get money from people. But in some cases a polong which is \"sent out\" by its owner refuses to free the body that it has attacked. In fact it goes a step further by causing more suffering to the victim. At this stage a \"Bomoh\" (witch-doctor) or spiritual leader such as an Imam is called to cast out the polong.\n\nMany of them know that the polong is easily weakened by black pepper seeds (mix with oil and few cloves of garlic). Normally, the shaman will place the seeds on certain parts of the body to cast off the polong. If he is a Muslim, this may be followed by Quranic recitations. The tormented polong will cry and plead, asking for the recitations to cease. It will then confess to the shaman the name of its master. However, it is not uncommon for the polong to name some other person to misguide the \"pawang\" (shaman). Hence, the admission must be taken cautiously.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5835474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5835474", "title": "Pongsaklek Wonjongkam", "text": "Pongsaklek Wonjongkam\n\nPongsaklek Wonjongkam (; born: August 11, 1977) is a Thai former professional boxer and current boxing trainer. He is a two-time former lineal flyweight champion.\n\nWonjongkam had a record of 9-2 early in his career. Both losses were to Filipino journeyman Jerry Pahayahay, whom Wonjongkam would defeat by 10-round decision in February, 1998. Since his second loss on July 11, 1996 to July 18, 2007, Wonjongkam won 55 consecutive bouts, the longest continuous win streak in boxing at the time.\n\nOn March 28, 1997 Wonjongkam knocked out Mzukisi Sikali of South Africa in 48 seconds to win the WBU Light Flyweight Championship. Sikali would go on to hold both the IBO Flyweight and WBU Super Flyweight titles.\n\nOn March 2, 2001, Wonjongkam fought Malcolm Tuñacao for the WBC and Lineal Flyweight Championships. Tuñacao won the Flyweight Lineage Championship from Medgoen Singsurat, who won the title by knocking out Manny Pacquiao. Pacquiao would later become the number one pound for pound fighter in the world. Wonjongkam won by first-round TKO after knocking Tuñacao down three times.\n\nIn his fourth Lineal and WBC Flyweight title defense, on April 19, 2002, Wonjongkam knocked out Japanese flyweight titleholder Daisuke Naito in 34 seconds. This knockout set the record for fastest knockout in division history.\n\nOn November 17, 2006, Wonjongkam defeated South African boxer Monelisi Mhikiza Myekeni by unanimous decision. Wonjongkam set the flyweight division record for consecutive title defenses, 16, with this victory.\n\nWonjongkam was ranked number ten in \"Ring\" magazine's pound-for-pound rankings, but Jermain Taylor bumped him off the list on June 18, 2006. Wonjongkam was ranked as \"The Ring\"'s number one flyweight until his loss to Daisuke Naito in 2007.\n\nWonjongkam suffered a shocking upset decision loss to Daisuke Naito in July, 2007, ending his long run as champion. Wonjongkam had defeated Naito twice in previous titles defenses. On March 8, 2008, Wonjongkam faced Naito in a rematch which ended in a draw.\n\nWonjongkam won the vacant Interim WBC Flyweight Championship in a bout against Mexican Julio César Miranda on April 24, 2009. The 12 round bout ended by a unanimous decision. Wonjongkam defended his interim title against Takahisa Masuda by knockout, setting the stage for a bout against Lineal WBC Flyweight Champion Koki Kameda, who had recently defeated Naito to win the title.\n\nOn March 27, 2010, Wonjongkam fought Lineal Champion, Koki Kameda, to unify the WBC Flyweight Championship and Interim WBC Flyweight Championship. The winner would also claim the vacant \"The Ring\" Flyweight Championship. Wonjongkam defeated Kameda by a 12-round majority decision to become the WBC and Ring Flyweight Champion.\n\nOn March 2, 2012, Wonjongkam lost his Lineal, \"The Ring\" and WBC Flyweight Titles in an upset technical knockout stoppage to Sonny Boy Jaro of Philippines. He was knocked down five times before the fight was stopped in the sixth round.\n\nWonjongkam won the vacant WBC International flyweight title against Hyobu Nakagama on August 31, 2012. However, he lost the title to Rey Migreno on November 1, 2012, by a third-round TKO, marking Wonjongkam's fifth defeat. Even more disappointingly for Wonjongkam, Migreno had a losing record of 17-20-3 going into this fight, and had been beaten twice before by Wonjongkam, first by ten-round UD in October 2007, and a first round stoppage in July 2010.\n\nMajor World Titles:\n\nMinor World Titles:\n\nLineal Championship Titles:\n\nThe Ring magazine Titles:\n\nRegional/International Titles:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "706885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706885", "title": "Prokop the Great", "text": "Prokop the Great\n\nProkop the Great (, ) or Prokop the Bald or the Shaven (Czech: \"Prokop Holý\", Latin: \"Procopius Rasus\") (c. 1380 – 30 May 1434) was a Czech Hussite general and a prominent Taborite military leader during the Hussite Wars.\n\nInitially, Prokop was a member of the Utraquists (the moderate wing of the Hussites) and was a married priest (having received the tonsure early in life) who belonged to an eminent family from Prague. He studied in Prague, and then traveled for several years in foreign countries. On his return to Bohemia, though a priest and continuing to officiate as such, he became the most prominent leader of the advanced Hussite or Taborite forces during the latter part of the Hussite wars. He was not the immediate successor of Jan Žižka as leader of the Taborites, as has been frequently stated, but he commanded the forces of Tabor when they obtained their great victories over the Germans and Catholics at Ústí nad Labem in 1426 and Domažlice in 1431. The crushing defeat that he inflicted on the crusaders of the Holy Roman Empire at Domažlice led to peace negotiations (1432) at Cheb between the Hussites and representatives of the Council of Basel.\n\nHe also acted as leader of the Taborites during their frequent incursions into Hungary and Germany, particularly when in 1429 a vast Bohemian army invaded Saxony and the territory of Nuremberg. The Hussites, however, made no attempt permanently to conquer German territory, and on 6 February 1430 Prokop concluded a treaty at Kulmbach with Frederick I, burgrave of Nuremberg, by which the Hussites engaged themselves to leave Germany. When the Bohemians entered into negotiations with Sigismund and the Council of Basel and, after prolonged discussions, resolved to send an embassy to the council, Prokop the Great was its most prominent member, reaching Basel on 4 January 1433. When the negotiations there for a time proved fruitless, Prokop with the other envoys returned to Bohemia, where new internal troubles broke out.\n\nA Taborite army led by Prokop the Great besieged Plzeň, which was then in the hands of the Catholics. The discipline in the Hussite camp had, however, slackened in the course of prolonged warfare, and the Taborites encamped before Plzeň revolted against Prokop, who therefore returned to Prague.\nProbably encouraged by these dissensions among the men of Tabor, the Bohemian nobility, both Catholic and Utraquist, formed a league for the purpose of opposing radicalism, which through the victories of Tabor had acquired great strength in the Bohemian towns. The struggle began at Prague. Aided by the nobles, the citizens of the Old Town took possession of the more radical New Town, Prague, which Prokop unsuccessfully attempted to defend. Prokop now called to his aid Prokop the Lesser, who had succeeded him in the command of the Taborite army before Plzeň. They jointly retreated eastward from Prague, and their forces, known as the army of the towns, met the army of the nobles between Kourim and Kolín in the Battle of Lipany (30 May 1434). The Taborites were decisively defeated, and both Prokops, Great and Lesser, perished in the battle.\n"}
{"id": "23856404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23856404", "title": "Robert Broadbridge", "text": "Robert Broadbridge\n\nRobert Broadbridge (christened 22 June 1797 at Duncton, Sussex; details of death unknown) was an English professional cricketer who played first-class cricket from 1822 to 1824. He was mainly associated with Sussex and made 4 known appearances in first-class matches, including 1 for The Bs.\n\n"}
{"id": "17643062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17643062", "title": "Rolf Mützelburg", "text": "Rolf Mützelburg\n\nRolf Mützelburg (23 June 1913 – 11 September 1942) was a German U-boat commander during World War II and a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves of Nazi Germany. Mützelburg died on active service on 11 September 1942 following an accident at sea.\n\nMützelburg joined the \"Reichsmarine\" of the Weimar Republic on 1 April 1932 as member of \"Crew 32\" (the incoming class of 1932). After spending two years on minesweepers, in October 1939 he joined the U-boat arm. He spent five months commanding the school boat from June to November 1940 as part of \"21st U-boat Flotilla\", receiving his first combat experience aboard under Joachim Schepke. He commissioned into \"1st U-boat Flotilla\" in February 1941. On his eight patrols in the Atlantic, the US east coast, and the Caribbean Sea, he sank 19 ships for a total of , and damaged three more ().\n\nMützelburg died on 11 September 1942 in a freak accident. He was swimming in the Atlantic south-west of the Azores, and dove from the conning tower, but struck the deck head-first when the U-boat suddenly lurched in the swell. The supply U-boat arrived the next day with a doctor on board, but too late, and Mützelburg was buried at sea on 12 September 1942.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52884036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52884036", "title": "Satan Panonski", "text": "Satan Panonski\n\nIvica Čuljak (4 June 1960 – 27 January 1992), better known as Satan Panonski, was a Yugoslavian and Croatian punk musician, poet, artist and freak performer from Vinkovci.\n\nČuljak was the subject of a 33-minute documentary film, the graduate thesis of Serbian director Milorad Milinković. Named \"Satan Panonski\" and filmed in 1990, it is the only film about Čuljak made during his lifetime. It portrays his performance in Belgrade, at the Studentski kulturni centar and on air with Fleka on Radio B92.\n\nČuljak died in 1992 as a Croatian soldier during the Croatian War of Independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "29330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29330", "title": "Social dynamics", "text": "Social dynamics\n\nSocial dynamics (or sociodynamics) can refer to the behavior of groups that results from the interactions of individual group members as well to the study of the relationship between individual interactions and group level behaviors. The field of social dynamics brings together ideas from Economics, Sociology, Social Psychology, and other disciplines, and is a sub-field of complex adaptive systems or complexity science. The fundamental assumption of the field is that individuals are influenced by one another's behavior. The field is closely related to system dynamics. Like system dynamics, social dynamics is concerned with changes over time and emphasizes the role of feedbacks. However, in social dynamics individual choices and interactions are typically viewed as the source of aggregate level behavior, while system dynamics posits that the structure of feedbacks and accumulations are responsible for system level dynamics. Research in the field typically takes a behavioral approach, assuming that individuals are boundedly rational and act on local information. Mathematical and computational modeling are important tools for studying social dynamics. Because social dynamics focuses on individual level behavior, and recognizes the importance of heterogeneity across individuals, strict analytic results are often impossible. Instead, approximation techniques, such as mean field approximations from statistical physics, or computer simulations are used to understand the behaviors of the system. In contrast to more traditional approaches in economics, scholars of social dynamics are often interested in non-equilibrium, or dynamic, behavior. That is, behavior that changes over time.\n\n\nAvailable online: http://www.hindawi.com/GetArticle.aspx?doi=10.1155/S1026022697000101.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12669578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12669578", "title": "Southpaw stance", "text": "Southpaw stance\n\nIn boxing, a southpaw stance is where the boxer has their right hand and right foot forward, leading with right jabs, and following with a left cross right hook. It is the normal stance for a left-handed boxer. The corresponding designation for a right-handed boxer is orthodox and is generally a mirror-image of the southpaw stance.\n\nLeft-handed boxers are usually taught to fight in a southpaw stance, but right-handed fighters also fight in the southpaw stance. Fighting in a southpaw stance is believed to give the fighter a strategic advantage because of the tactical and cognitive difficulties of coping with a fighter who moves in a mirror-reverse of the norm. This is why left-handed fighters are brought up fighting in this orthodox stance. Another reason some left-handed fighters are brought up fighting in the orthodox stance is due to the (real or perceived) limited number of trainers who specialize in training the southpaw stance.\n\nA skilled right-hander, such as Roy Jones Jr., Terence Crawford or Marvin Hagler may switch to the left-handed (southpaw) stance to take advantage of the fact that most fighters lack experience against lefties. In addition, a right-hander in southpaw with a powerful left cross obtains an explosively different combination. The converted southpaw may use a right jab followed by a left cross, with the intention of making the opponent slip to the outside of their left side. Then the converted right-hander can simply turn their body left and face their opponent, placing them in orthodox, and follow up with an unexpected right cross. If the southpaw fighter is right-hand dominant with a strong left cross, this puts the opponent in danger of knockout from each punch in the combination, as jabs with the power hand can stun or knock out (KO) in heavier weight classes.\nWhile rare, the reverse is also true for left-handers; left-hand dominant fighters like Oscar De La Hoya and Miguel Cotto who fight from an orthodox stance give up the so-called \"southpaw advantage\" strategically, but are gifted with heavier lead hands. Consequently, in MMA if one stands in a southpaw stance (strongside forward), one must train one's cross and left low kick to make it fast, hard and dangerous.\n\nThough many claim that the term originated due to the orientation of baseball playing fields in order to keep the sun out of the players' eyes and the resulting alignment of a left-handed pitcher's throwing arm, the term had been used decades prior to that to indicate \"not-usual\".\n\nBoxing: Manny Pacquiao, Marvin Hagler, Hector Camacho, Pernell Whitaker, Joe Calzaghe, Vicente Saldivar, Tiger Flowers, Young Corbett III, Gabriel Elorde, Sergio Martínez, Ivan Calderon, Freddie Miller Victor Ortiz, Sultan Ibragimov, Naseem Hamed, Lucian Bute, \n\nMuay Thai/Kickboxing/K-1: Mirko Filipovic, Saenchai, Giorgio Petrosyan, Raymond Daniels\n\nMMA: Conor McGregor, Stephen Thompson, Luke Rockhold, Anthony Pettis, Darren Till, Nick Diaz, Nate Diaz, Anderson Silva, Holly Holm, Robbie Lawler, Matt Mitrione, Vitor Belfort, Benson Henderson\n\n"}
{"id": "44693413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44693413", "title": "Spiritual self-schema therapy", "text": "Spiritual self-schema therapy\n\nSpiritual self-schema therapy, sometimes referred to as 3-S Therapy, was developed at Yale University School of Medicine by S. Kelly Avants, Ph.D., and Arthur Margolin, Ph.D. It is a therapy for addicted individuals who have contracted HIV or are at risk for contracting HIV, whose goals are to reduce illicit drug use as well as drug- and sex-related risk behaviors. In general, it aims to promote living a spiritual life aiding in their recovery . Spiritual self-schema therapy has a non-theistic foundation based on Buddhist practices, which are very similar to contemporary cognitive-behavioral techniques, and incorporates the client's spiritual beliefs, which do not need to be specifically or conventionally religious. . 3-S therapy does not \"convert\" clients to Buddhism or any other spiritual or religious belief system, but always works within the client's pre-existing set of beliefs. \n\nThe term self-schema describes a mental process to aim in understanding and organizing incoming information (stimuli). An example would include looking in your rearview mirror while driving and seeing flashing lights - typically an individual has an automatic response and prepares to pull over with out having to think. This illustrates a well-organized schema on \"flashing lights\". The connection between self-schema and spiritual self-schema therapy is shown in the automatic beliefs about oneself. An individual doesn't have to stop and think \"Who am I? How would somebody like that respond to this situation?\" If an individual is shy and believes they are ugly, they may see somebody looking in their direction and assume the person is staring at how ugly they are, when in reality they could be finding the person quite attractive or even not looking at them at all.\n\nYale School of Medicine has started a program called 3-S Thearpy, signifying Spiritual Self-Schema. Self-schemas can be helpful, but they can also be problematic. Stereotypes are an example. Additionally, people who believe that they are \"bad, worthless, or unlovable\" do significant amounts of mental damage to themselves. Yale School of Medicine's 3-S program promotes spirituality as a strong resource for coping with life's troubles. The goal of its program is to create a path to enhance one's spiritual nature. The therapy manuals for 3-S Therapy, in English, as well as translated into Spanish and Russian, are available at the Yale University website: https://medicine.yale.edu/spiritualselfschema/training/manuals/therapy.aspx\n\nThere is a growing trend in attempting to integrate spiritual and religious beliefs into HIV prevention and addiction treatment. Spiritual self-schema therapy is one such attempt. Spiritual self-schema therapy enables a cognitive shift from the habitual \"addict\" self-schema to the \"spiritual\" self-schema. This new schema carries various harm reduction beliefs and behaviors. This switch has been illustrated, according to a study conducted by Margolin, et al., to provide \"greater decreases in impulsivity and intoxicant use\" as well as an increase in \"spiritual practices and motivation for abstinence, HIV prevention and medication adherence.\"\n"}
{"id": "2459580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2459580", "title": "Suriyothai", "text": "Suriyothai\n\nSuriyothai (, ) or Mahathewi () was a royal queen consort during the 16th century Ayutthaya period of Siam (now Thailand). She is famous for having given up her life in the defense of her husband, King Maha Chakkraphat, in a battle during the Burmese–Siamese War (1548–49).\n\nSomdet Phra () and Sri (), pronounced and often transcribed Si, are her honorifics. Her given name Suriyothai means \"dawn\". It is a compound of \"Suriya\", from Sanskrit \"surya\" सूर्य \"sun\"; plus \"Uthai\" from \"udaya\" उदय \"rising\", a cognate of Aurora and Ushas.\n\nSuriyothai was married to Prince Tien when he was regent under King Yodfa's rule. Wishing to remain faithful to Suriothai, Prince Tien entered a monastery to avoid the advances of Sudachan, the Queen Mother.\n\nSuriyothai was queen during the early part of the reign of King Maha Chakkraphat (2091 to 2106 Buddhist Era, with another reign from 2111 to 2112 B.E.). In 1548 CE, barely six months into King Maha Chakkraphat's reign, the King of Burma invaded Siam with the intent of sacking the main capital, Ayutthaya.\n\nThe invasion initially met little resistance, as the Burmese force was too large for the small guard posts on the border. Upon hearing of the Burmese invasion, Maha Chakkraphat mobilized his kingdom, then gathered his forces at Suphanburi, a town just west of Ayutthaya. When Tabinshwehti and his Burmese army arrived at the walled town of Kanchanaburi, they found it deserted. The King of Burma then continued his march eastward, capturing the villages of Ban Thuan, Kaphan Tru and Chorakhe Sam Phan. Tabinshwehti divided his army into three columns, the first commanded by Bayinnaung, the second by the Viceroy of Prome, and the third by Yong, the Governor of Bassein. The Burmese continued their advance and captured the ancient town of Uthong as well as the villages of Don Rakhang and Nong Sarai and closed on Suphanburi. When the Burmese attacked the town, the Siamese defenders could not withstand the onslaught and retreated towards Ayutthaya. Tabinshwehti ordered his army southeast along two canals, and crossed the Chao Phraya River near Phong Phaeng. From here he encamped his army directly north of the Siamese capital of Ayutthaya on a field called the Lumpli Plain.\n\nMaha Chakkraphat left the capital with his forces to engage Tabinshwehti and test Burmese strength. On this occasion, he mounted his chief war elephant. Accompanying him were his Chief Queen, Sri Suriyothai, and one of their young daughters, Princess Boromdhilok, the two riding together on a smaller war elephant. Both royal ladies were dressed in male military attire (helmet and armour), with the queen wearing the uniform of an Uparaja. Also accompanying their father on elephant mounts were two sons, the Uparaja and heir apparent, Prince Ramesuan, and his brother Prince Mahin.\n\nThe Siamese army under Maha Chakkraphat soon met the advance column commanded by the Viceroy of Prome, and the two armies engaged in battle. The commanders of the two forces engaged in single elephant-combat, as was the custom of the time. Maha Chakkraphat's elephant panicked and gave flight, charging away from the enemy, the viceroy giving chase. Fearing for the life of her husband, Queen Sri Suriyothai charged ahead to put her elephant between the king and the viceroy, thereby blocking his pursuit. The viceroy then engaged the queen in single combat, fatally cleaving her from shoulder to heart with his spear, also mortally wounding her daughter. Both mother and child met their deaths on the back of the same elephant. It was said that the viceroy did not know he was fighting a woman until his blow struck. As she fell dying, her helmet came off, exposing her long hair. Burmese chronicles do not mention any instance of single combat (on elephant-back or otherwise) by the Viceroy of Prome.\n\nPrince Ramesuan and Prince Mahin then urged their elephants forward to fight the viceroy, and drove him and his remaining forces from the field, then carried the bodies of their mother and sister back to Ayutthaya. The Siamese king meanwhile rallied his army, and retreated in good order back towards the capital.\n\n\nA memorial chedi to Queen Suriyothai, Phra Chedi Sisuriyothai, was built by King Maha Chakkraphat in her honor. The chedi is at Wat Suanluang Sopsawan on the banks of the Chao Phraya, southwest of the Wang Luang (royal palace). There is also a memorial park to her outside of Ayutthaya, featuring a large statue of the queen riding a war elephant.\n\nIn 2001, a Thai movie about her life, \"The Legend of Suriyothai\", was released. The film was directed by M.C. Chatrichalerm Yukol of the Thai Royal Family and financed by Queen Sirikit.\n\nIn 2013 Opera Siam International premiered S. P. Somtow's ballet-opera called \"Suriyothai\" in honour of the birthday of Queen Sirikit. It starred Stacey Tappan and Winita Lohitkul, and was conducted by Trisdee na Patalung.\n\n"}
{"id": "539078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539078", "title": "Tab Hunter", "text": "Tab Hunter\n\nTab Hunter (born Arthur Andrew Kelm; July 11, 1931 – July 8, 2018) was an American actor, singer, film producer and author. He appeared in over forty films and was a well-known Hollywood star and heartthrob of the 1950s and 1960s, known for his blond, clean-cut good looks.\n\nHunter was born in Manhattan, New York City, the son of Gertrude () and Charles Kelm. His father was Jewish and his mother was a German Catholic immigrant, from Hamburg. He had an older brother, Walter.\nHunter’s father was reportedly abusive, and within a few years of his birth, his parents divorced. He was raised in California living with his mother, brother, and maternal grandparents, John Henry and Ida (née Sonnenfleth) Gelien, living in San Francisco, Long Beach and Los Angeles.<ref name=nyt2003/09/09></ref> His mother reassumed her maiden surname, Gelien, and changed her sons’ surnames, as well. As a teenager, Arthur Gelien, as he was then known, was a figure skater, competing in both singles and pairs. Hunter was sent to Catholic school by his religious mother.\n\nHe joined the United States Coast Guard aged 15, lying about his age to enlist. While in the Coast Guard, he gained the nickname “Hollywood” for his penchant for watching movies rather than going to bars while on liberty. When his age was discovered, he was discharged by the Coast Guard. He met actor Dick Clayton socially; Clayton suggested that Hunter become an actor.\n\nClayton introduced Hunter to agent Henry Willson, who specialized in \"pretty boy\" stars such as Guy Madison and Robert Wagner. It was Willson who named him \"Tab Hunter\".\n\nHunter's first film role was a minor part in a film noir, \"The Lawless\" (1950). He was friends with character actor Paul Guilfoyle, who suggested him to director Stuart Heisler, who was looking for an unknown to play the lead in \"Island of Desire\" (1952) opposite Linda Darnell. The film, essentially a two-hander between Hunter and Darnell, was a hit.\n\nHunter supported George Montgomery in \"Gun Belt\" (1953), a Western produced by Edward Small. Small used him again for a war film, \"The Steel Lady\", (1953) supporting Rod Cameron, and as the lead in an adventure tale, \"Return to Treasure Island\" (1954). He began acting on stage, appearing in a production of \"Our Town\". \n\nHe was then offered a contract at Warner Bros.\n\nOne of Hunter's first films for Warners was \"The Sea Chase\" (1955), supporting John Wayne and Lana Turner. It was a big hit, but Hunter's part was relatively small. Rushes were seen by William A. Wellman, who cast Hunter to play the younger brother of Robert Mitchum in \"Track of the Cat\" (1955). It was a solid hit and Hunter began to get more notice.\n\nHis breakthrough role came when he was cast as the young Marine Danny in 1955's World War II drama \"Battle Cry\". His character has an affair with an older woman, but ends up marrying the girl next door. It was based on a bestseller by Leon Uris and became Warner Bros.' largest grossing film of that year, cementing Hunter's position as one of Hollywood's top young romantic leads. He was in the third (\"Battle Cry\") and tenth (\"The Sea Chase\") most popular films of the year.\n\nIn September 1955 the tabloid magazine \"Confidential\" reported Hunter's 1950 arrest for disorderly conduct. The innuendo-laced article, and a second one focusing on Rory Calhoun's prison record, were the result of a deal Henry Willson had brokered with the scandal rag in exchange for not revealing his more prominent client Rock Hudson's sexual orientation to the public. \n\nNot only did this have no negative effect on Hunter's career, a few months later he was named Most Promising New Personality in a nationwide poll sponsored by the Council of Motion Picture Organizations. In 1956, he received 62,000 valentines. Hunter, James Dean and Natalie Wood were the last actors to be placed under an exclusive studio contract at Warner Bros. Warners decided to promote him to star status, teaming him with Natalie Wood in two films, a Western, \"The Burning Hills\" (1956), directed by Heisler, and \"The Girl He Left Behind\" (1956), a service comedy. These films also proved to be hits with audiences and Warners planned a third teaming of Hunter and Wood. Hunter rejected the third picture, thus ending Warners' attempt to make Hunter and Wood the William Powell and Myrna Loy of the 1950s. Hunter was Warner Bros.' most popular male star from 1955 until 1959.\n\nHunter received strong critical acclaim for a performance he gave on TV in \"Forbidden Area\", the debut show of \"Playhouse 90\", written by Rod Serling and directed by John Frankenheimer.\n\nHunter had a 1957 hit record with the song \"Young Love,\" which was No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart for six weeks (seven weeks on the UK Chart) and became one of the larger hits of the Rock 'n' Roll era. It sold over one million copies, and was awarded a gold disc by the RIAA. \n\nHe had another hit single, \"Ninety-Nine Ways\", which peaked at No. 11 in the United States and No. 5 in the United Kingdom. His success prompted Jack L. Warner to enforce the actor's contract with the Warner Bros. studio by banning Dot Records, the label for which Hunter had recorded the single (and which was owned by rival Paramount Pictures), from releasing a follow-up album he had recorded for them. He established Warner Bros. Records specifically for Hunter.\n\nHunter's acting career was also at its zenith. William Wellman used him again in a war film, \"Lafayette Escadrille\" (1958). Columbia Pictures borrowed him for a Western, \"Gunman's Walk\" (1958), a film which Hunter considered his favorite role.\n\nHunter starred in the 1958 musical film \"Damn Yankees\", in which he played Joe Hardy of Washington, D.C.'s American League baseball club. The film had originally been a Broadway show, but Hunter was the only one in the film version who had not appeared in the original cast. The show was based on the 1954 best-selling book \"The Year the Yankees Lost the Pennant\" by Douglass Wallop. Hunter later said the filming was hellish because director George Abbott was only interested in recreating the stage version word for word. In 1959, he starred in the films, \"They Came to Cordura\" with Gary Cooper and Rita Hayworth and \"That Kind of Woman\" opposite Sophia Loren.\n\nHunter's failure to win the role of Tony in the film adaptation of \"West Side Story\" (1961) prompted him to agree to star in a weekly television sitcom.\n\n\"The Tab Hunter Show\" had moderate ratings (due to being scheduled opposite \"The Ed Sullivan Show\") and lasted only one season (36 episodes) but was a huge hit in the United Kingdom, where it ranked as one of the top situation comedies of the year.\n\nHunter had a starring role as Debbie Reynolds's love interest in \"The Pleasure of His Company\" (1961). He played the lead in a swashbuckler shot in Italy, \"The Golden Arrow\" (1962) and was in a war movie for American International Pictures, \"Operation Bikini\" (1963).\n\nIn 1964, he starred on Broadway opposite Tallulah Bankhead in Tennessee Williams' \"The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore\". \n\n\"Ride the Wild Surf\" (1964) was a surf film for Columbia, followed by a movie in Britain, \"Troubled Waters\" (1964). He stayed in England to make another picture for AIP, \"War Gods Of The Deep\" (1965). Back in Hollywood he had a supporting role in \"The Loved One\" (1965) and \"Birds Do It\" (1966). He made a film with Richard Rush, \"The Fickle Finger of Fate\" (1967).\n\nFor a short time in the late 1960s, after several seasons of starring in summer stock and dinner theater in shows such as \"Bye Bye Birdie\", \"The Tender Trap\", \"Under the Yum Yum Tree\" and \"West Side Story\" with some of the New York cast, Hunter settled in the south of France, where he acted in Spaghetti Westerns, including \"Vengeance Is My Forgiveness\" (1968), \"The Last Chance\" (1968) and \"Bridge over the Elbe\" (1969).\n\nHunter had the lead role in \"Sweet Kill\" (1973), the first movie from director Curtis Hanson. He won a co-starring role in the successful fiim \"The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean\" (1972) with Paul Newman. He had small roles in \"Won Ton Ton, the Dog Who Saved Hollywood\" (1976) and \"\" (1978).\n\nHunter's career was revived in the 1980s, when he starred opposite actor Divine in John Waters' \"Polyester\" (1981) and Paul Bartel's \"Lust in the Dust\" (1985). He played Mr. Stuart, the substitute teacher in \"Grease 2\" (1982), who sang \"Reproduction\". Hunter had a major role in the 1988 horror film \"Cameron's Closet\". He also wrote the story for, and starred in, \"Dark Horse\" (1992), his last film.\n\nAn award-winning 2015 documentary about his life, \"Tab Hunter Confidential\", was directed by Jeffrey Schwarz and produced by Hunter's husband Allan Glaser. A feature film is currently in development at Paramount Pictures to be produced by Glaser, J. J. Abrams and Zachary Quinto. Pulitzer Prize- and Tony Award-winning writer Doug Wright is attached to create the screenplay.\n\nHunter's autobiography, \"Tab Hunter Confidential: The Making of a Movie Star\" (2005), co-written with Eddie Muller, became a \"New York Times\" best-seller as did the paperback edition in 2007. The book was nominated for several writing awards. It re-entered \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list for a third time on June 28, 2015, during the release of the documentary film based on the book.\n\nIn the book, Hunter acknowledged that he was gay, confirming rumors that had circulated since the height of his fame. According to William L. Hamilton of \"The New York Times\", detailed reports about Hunter's alleged romances with close friends Debbie Reynolds and Natalie Wood were strictly the fodder of studio publicity departments. As Wood and Hunter embarked on a well-publicized but fictitious romance, promoting his apparent heterosexuality while promoting their films, insiders developed their own headline for the item: \"Natalie Wood and Tab Wouldn't.\"\n\nDuring Hollywood's studio era, Hunter said, \" [life] was difficult for me, because I was living two lives at that time. A private life of my own, which I never discussed, never talked about to anyone. And then my Hollywood life, which was just trying to learn my craft and succeed ...\" The star emphasized that the word \"'gay' ... wasn't even around in those days, and if anyone ever confronted me with it, I'd just kinda freak out. I was in total denial. I was just not comfortable in that Hollywood scene, other than the work process.\" \"There was a lot written about my sexuality, and the press was pretty darn cruel,\" the actor said, but what \"moviegoers wanted to hold in their hearts were the boy-next-door marines, cowboys and swoon-bait sweethearts I portrayed.\"\nHunter had long-term relationships with actor Anthony Perkins and champion figure skater Ronnie Robertson, before settling down and marrying his partner/spouse of over 35 years, film producer Allan Glaser.\n\nHunter was raised in his mother's Catholic faith which he practiced, except for a breach in his youth, for the rest of his life. Hunter was a Republican and supported the campaign of Dwight Eisenhower during the 1952 presidential election.\n\nHunter has a star for his contributions to the music industry on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6320 Hollywood Blvd. In 2007, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs Walk of Stars was dedicated to him.\n\nHunter died from a cardiac arrest from complications related to deep vein thrombosis, three days before his 87th birthday. According to Glaser, Hunter's death was \"sudden and unexpected.\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "156559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156559", "title": "The Passersby", "text": "The Passersby\n\n\"The Passersby\" is the 69th episode of the American television anthology series \"The Twilight Zone\".\n\nAs the episode starts, a group of Civil War soldiers are walking down a road as Rod Serling does his narration:\n\nAfter some dialogue is exchanged by the Sergeant and Lavinia Godwin, Rod Serling resumes his opening narration:\n\nAt the end of the Civil War, a Confederate Army Sergeant (James Gregory), apparently wounded in battle, walks down a road aided by a wooden crutch. He carries with him a dirty bed roll and a homemade guitar. As the Sergeant limps along he sees a house. Once beautiful, the house and yard show obvious signs of the war; there is debris in the yard, and a large, dead tree stands in front of the house. It had once provided shade for its owners; now it stands there as evidence of the former beauty of the property. This is the house of Lavinia Godwin (Joanne Linville), whose husband had gone off to fight in the war and whose bitterness towards the Union still survives.\n\nThe Sergeant, seeking water and a place to rest, receives permission from Lavinia to refresh himself at the well, and then to sit on a bench under the dead tree. The Sergeant plays his guitar, singing a song that Lavinia identifies as one that her husband used to sing. They talk while he plays the guitar, and watch as a steady stream of soldiers, both Union and Confederate, passes by the house and continue on down the road. The Sergeant learns that Lavinia has been very ill, and that Lavinia's husband was killed in the war. The Sergeant and Lavinia interact with others who are traveling on the road, both Confederate and Union soldiers whose conversation and behavior imply that they are more than just wounded men.\n\nThe Sergeant begins to realize that this is not a normal road, and these are not just wounded soldiers. He tells Lavinia that there is something down at the end of the road, and that he has to find out what it is. As the Sergeant turns to leave, Lavinia moves in front of him and tries to persuade him to stay. Suddenly they hear a man's voice singing a familiar song. The man is Lavinia's husband, Jud.\n\nJud tells her that everyone on that road is indeed dead—including her. The Sergeant, understanding now, moves off down the road, but Lavinia refuses to believe that it is true. Jud tells her that there is nothing left for him in that house. Insisting that she is alive, Lavinia pleads with Jud to stay. Jud refuses and continues down the road, disregarding her pleas. As he leaves, Jud tells Lavinia that he will be waiting for her at the end of the road. Lavinia cries out to her husband, imploring him to stay. Dropping to her knees on the now deserted road, she begs Jud to come back.\n\nThen she hears a soft voice speaking to her and trying to comfort her. It is a lone passerby who turns out to be Abraham Lincoln. He tells her that he is the last man on that road. Frightened, Lavinia backs away from him, but finally she accepts her fate and runs to join her husband, who can now be seen waiting for her at the end of the road, shrouded in fog. Lavinia joins her husband there and they walk into the fog. They are followed by Lincoln, who walks slowly toward the end of the road. The entire stream of soldiers was every single casualty of the war, and Lincoln was the last casualty of the war itself.\n\n\nThe traditional folk song \"Black Is the Color (Of My True Love's Hair)\" is featured prominently throughout this episode.\n\nElements of the episode are re-made in an episode of the 2002 revival named, \"Homecoming\". In this episode, a soldier returns from Iraq to repair his relationship with his son. We find out that the soldier is dead.\n\nThe closing titles image is of the road upon which the eponymous passersby walk.\n\nThe radio adaptation of this episode starred Morgan Brittany as Lavinia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528543", "title": "Therapeutic touch", "text": "Therapeutic touch\n\nTherapeutic touch (commonly shortened to \"TT\"), known by some as \"non-contact therapeutic touch\" (NCTT), is a pseudoscientific energy therapy which practitioners claim promotes healing and reduces pain and anxiety. \"Therapeutic Touch\" is a registered trademark in Canada for the \"[s]tructured and standardized healing practice performed by practitioners trained to be sensitive to the receiver's energy field that surrounds the body;...no touching is required.\"\n\nPractitioners of therapeutic touch state that by placing their hands on, or near, a patient, they are able to detect and manipulate what they say is the patient's energy field. One highly cited study, designed by the then-nine-year-old Emily Rosa and published in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" in 1998, found that practitioners of therapeutic touch could not detect the presence or absence of a hand placed a few inches above theirs when their vision was obstructed. Simon Singh and Edzard Ernst concluded in their 2008 book \"Trick or Treatment\" that \"the energy field was probably nothing more than a figment in the imaginations of the healers\". The American Cancer Society has noted, \"Available scientific evidence does not support any claims that TT can cure cancer or other diseases.\" A 2014 Cochrane review found no good evidence that it helped with wound healing.\n\nDora Kunz, a theosophy promoter and one-time president (1975–1987) of the Theosophical Society in America, and Dolores Krieger, now Professor Emerita of Nursing Science, New York University, developed therapeutic touch in the 1970s. According to Krieger, therapeutic touch has roots in ancient healing practices, such as the laying on of hands, although it has no connection with religion or with faith healing. Krieger states that, \"in the final analysis, it is the healee (client) who heals himself. The healer or therapist, in this view, acts as a human energy support system until the healee's own immunological system is robust enough to take over\".\n\nJustification for TT has been sought in two fields: Martha E. Rogers' contemporal \"Science of Unitary Human Beings\", and quantum mechanics, in particular Fritjof Capra's mystical interpretation of the latter. A 2002 review found that neither justification was tenable: Rogers' theories were found to be inconsistent with the tenets of TT, while the overlap in terminology between the two could be ascribed to a lack of precision in Rogers' works, making them multi-interpretable. The quantum physics justification holds that the possibility to heal at a distance is possible due to a \"global interconnectivity\" of the universe, which is connected by TT adherents to an interpretation of Bell's theorem and the possibility of quantum nonlocality; this interpretation is not supported by experimental evidence. The 2002 study concluded that \"the theory TT possesses is deprived of explanatory power\" and \"evidence that supports the current picture of physical energy should be regarded as evidence against the theory of TT\".\n\nThe healing in TT takes place via a supposed physical process called \"electron transfer resonance\", which physicist Alan Sokal describes as \"nonsense\".\n\nOver the decades, many studies have been performed to investigate TT's efficacy, as well as various meta-analyses and at least one systematic review, yielding varying results and conclusions. O'Mathúna \"et al.\", in discussing these studies, note several problems, such as failure to exclude methodologically flawed studies and a susceptibility to the publication bias of complementary medicine journals, which carry a \"preponderance of studies with positive results\"; they argue that\n\nEmily Rosa, at 9 years of age, conceived and executed a study on therapeutic touch. With the help of Stephen Barrett from Quackwatch, and with the assistance of her mother, Linda Rosa, RN, Emily became the youngest research team member to have a paper accepted by the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" (JAMA) for her part in a study of therapeutic touch, which debunked the claims of therapeutic touch practitioners. Twenty-one practitioners of therapeutic touch participated in her study, and they attempted to detect her aura. The practitioners stood on one side of a cardboard screen, while Emily stood on the other. The practitioners then placed their hands through holes in the screen. Emily flipped a coin to determine which of the practitioner's hands she would place hers near (without, of course, touching the hand). The practitioners then were to indicate if they could sense her biofield, and where her hand was. Although all of the participants had asserted that they would be able to do this, the actual results did not support their assertions. After repeated trials the practitioners had succeeded in locating her hand at a rate not significantly different from chance. JAMA editor George D. Lundberg, M.D, recommended that patients and insurance companies alike refuse to pay for therapeutic touch or at least question whether or not payment is appropriate \"until or unless additional honest experimentation demonstrates an actual effect.\"\n\nThere is no good medical evidence for the effectiveness of therapeutic touch. A Cochrane systematic review found \"[t]here is no robust evidence that TT promotes healing of acute wounds\" and the American Cancer Society has noted, \"Available scientific evidence does not support any claims that TT can cure cancer or other diseases.\"\n\nSokal, in 2006, reported generally accepted estimates of over 80 colleges and universities spread over 70 countries where therapeutic touch is taught, as well as some 80 hospitals in North America where it is practiced. He added that \"these figures should be taken with a grain of salt, inasmuch as both advocates and detractors [...] have an interest in exaggerating its incidence\".\n\nOwen Hammer and James Underdown from the \"Independent Investigations Group\" examined nursing standards in California, where the California Board of Registered Nursing (CBRN) can award registered nurses taking classes in therapeutic touch with continuing education units (CEUs) required for licensure renewal. In 2006 Hammer and Underdown presented the Board with the scientific evidence refuting the validity of therapeutic touch as a legitimate treatment, but the Board did not change its policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54972969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54972969", "title": "Vasudeva Krishnamurthy", "text": "Vasudeva Krishnamurthy\n\nVasudeva Krishnamurthy, nicknamed Prof. V.K., was an Indian algologist. He established Krishnamurthy Institute of Algology at Chennai to promote the study of algology. Krishnamurthy, son of Sanskrit professor R. Vasudeva Sharma, was born on August14, 1921 at Valavanur, Viluppuram district. He died in Tamil Nadu on May9 2014.\n\nKrishnamurthy acquired a B.A. (1940, at St. Joseph's college, affiliated to Madras University) and a B.Sc. (Hons.) degree (1942, Presidency College, Madras University) at the University of Madras. University of Madras awarded him with the Pulny Gold Medal. He also gained an M.A. (1947, University of Madras), an M.Sc. (1952, Presidency College, Madras University) and a Ph.D. (1957, University of Manchester, U.K.). At the age of 21 Krishnamurthy became a research scholar at the botany laboratory of the University of Madras and worked under the father of Indian algology, Prof. M.O.P. Iyengar.\n\nKrishnamurthy was the reader in botany from 1943 to 1960. In 1960 he joined Thanjavur Medical College as a professor of biology, and as professor of microbiology and bacteriology in the Department of Public Health Engineering in the college of Engineering. In 1961 he joined Central Salts and Marine Chemicals Research Institute (CSIR), Bhavnagar, Gujarat as a scientist. After working in CSIR's laboratories for a decade (1961–1971) he returned to Tamil Nadu and served as professor of botany in various colleges. When he retired in 1979, he was principal at Arignar Anna Government Arts College for Men Namakkal.\n\nHe started the Seaweed Research and Utilization Association to encourage research on seaweed in India. On behalf of this association he published the journal \"Seaweed Research Utilization\". He was the founding president of the association and he served as president until he died. He founded Krishnamurthy Institute of Algology (KIA), Chennai, India. KIA has the largest library in Tamil Nadu on algal studies, and it is fully equipped for algal research. Prof. V. K. worked in this laboratory until his death.\n\n"}
