{"id": "3590911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3590911", "title": "Alejandro Rossi", "text": "Alejandro Rossi\n\nAlejandro Rossi (Alessandro Rossi, September 22, 1932 - June 5, 2009) was born in Florence, Italy of Venezuelan mother and Italian father) was an Italian-Venezuelan writer.\n\nAlejandro Rossi wrote philosophical essays, short stories and the following books: \"Lenguaje y significado\" (Language and Meaning) (Siglo XXI, 1968, FCE, 1995, 7th edition); \"Manual del Distraído\" Manual of the Absent-minded (J. Mortiz, 1978, Anagrama, 1980, Monte Avila, 1987, FCE, 1992, 6th edition); \"Sueños de Occam\" (Occam's Dreams) (UNAM, 1982); \"La fábula de Las Regiones\" (the Fable of The Regions) (El Equilibrista, 1989), \"Edén: Vida imaginada\" (FCE, 2006). \"Ortega y Gasset\" in collaboration (FCE, 1984); he edited José Gaos' Anthology: \"Filosofía de la Filosofía\" (Philosophy of Philosophy) (Crítica, 1989). Rossi won the Premio Nacional de Lingüística y Literatura (National Literary and Linguistics Prize) in 1999.\n\nRossi's writing is marked by a rich language that plays with generic definitions.\n\nRossi was co-founder and co-director of the Hispanic-American magazine \"Crítica\" (\"Critic\")\".\" He was also a member of the editing board for the magazine \"Plural\" and acted as the interim director for the magazine \"Vuelta.\" In 1983, Rossi was invited to attend St. Anthony's College in University of Oxford in Great Britain. Then in 1989, Rossi edited and wrote the foreword for the anthology José Gaos: \"Filosofía de la Filosofía\" (\"José Gaos: The Philosophy of Philosophy\") (Crítica) and also collaborated with various foreign others in books like \"Philosophie und Rechtstheorie in Mexiko\" (Duncker & Humblot, Berlín, 1989) and \"Philosophical Analysis in Latin America\" (Jorge J. E. Gracia et al., 1984). Some of his other well-known works include \"Manual del Distraído\" (\"Manual of the Distracted\") (1978), \"La Fábula de las Regiones\" (\"The Legend of the Regions\") (1997), and \"Lenguaje y significado\" (\"Language and Meaning\") (1968). On the same note, in a volume written in collaboration with other authors (FCE, 1984, 1996), Rossi paid homage to one of mainstays of his form of thought, José Ortega and Gasset.\n\nIn addition to his work for \"Plural\", Rossi also wrote supplemental articles on culture for the newspaper \"Excélsior\" which, at the time, was headed by the poet Octavio Paz and under the editorship of Julio Scherer García. In 1976, the newspaper was subdued by members of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) led by Luis Echeverría Álvarez (1970-1976) -- due to the newspaper's views against his administration—leaving Rossi to follow Paz and his coworkers in founding the literary review \"Vuelta\" of which Rossi served as the interim director for a few months. From there, Rossi became part of the review's editing board until the very last day of publication. \"Vuelta\" later came to receive the Prince of Asturias Award (Spanish: \"Premio Príncipe de Asturias de Comunicación y Humanidades\") in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "39867144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39867144", "title": "Ancestral sequence reconstruction", "text": "Ancestral sequence reconstruction\n\nAncestral sequence reconstruction (ASR) – also known as ancestral gene/sequence reconstruction/resurrection – is a technique used in the study of molecular evolution. The method consists of the synthesis of an ancestral gene and expression of the corresponding ancestral protein. The idea of protein 'resurrection' was suggested in 1963 by Pauling and Zuckerkandl. Some early efforts were made in the eighties-nineties, led by the laboratory of Steven A. Benner, showing the potential of this technique – one that only started to be fulfilled in the post-genomic era. Thanks to the improvement of algorithms and of better sequencing and synthesis techniques, the method was developed further in the early 2000s to allow the resurrection of a greater variety of and much more ancient genes. Over the last decade, ancestral protein resurrection has developed as a strategy to reveal the mechanisms and dynamics of protein evolution.\n\nUnlike conventional evolutionary and biochemical approaches to studying proteins, i.e. the so-called \"horizontal\" comparison of related protein homologues from different branch ends of the tree of life; ASR probes the statistically inferred ancestral proteins within the nodes of the tree – in a \"vertical\" manner (see diagram, right). This approach gives access to protein properties that may have transiently arisen over evolutionary time and has recently been used as a way to infer the potential selection pressures that resulted in the present day sequences seen today. ASR has been used to probe the causative mutation that resulted in a protein's neofunctionalization after duplication by first determining that said mutation was located between ancestors '5' and '4' on the diagram (illustratively) using functional assays. In the field of protein biophysics, ASR has also been used to study the development of a protein's thermodynamic and kinetic landscapes over evolutionary time as well as protein folding pathways by combining many modern day analytical techniques such as HX/MS. These sort of insights are typically inferred from several ancestors reconstructed along a phylogeny – referring to the previous analogy, by studying nodes \"higher and higher\" (further and further back in evolutionary time) within the tree of life.\n\nMost ASR studies are conducted \"in vitro\", and have revealed ancestral protein properties that seem to be evolutionarily desirable traits – such as increased thermostability, catalytic activity and catalytic promiscuity. These data have been accredited to artifacts of the ASR algorithms, as well as indicative illustrations of ancient Earth's environment – often, ASR research must be complemented with extensive controls (usually alternate ASR experiments) to mitigate algorithmic error. It should also be noted that not all studied ASR proteins exhibit this so-called 'ancestral superiority'. The nascent field of 'evolutionary biochemistry' has been bolstered by the recent increase in ASR studies using the ancestors as ways to probe organismal fitness within certain cellular contexts – effectively testing ancestral proteins \"in vivo\". Due to inherent limitations in these sorts of studies – primarily being the lack of suitably ancient genomes to fit these ancestors in to, the small repertoire of well categorised laboratory model systems, and the inability to mimic ancient cellular environments; very few ASR studies \"in vivo\" have been conducted. Despite the above mentioned obstacles, preliminary insights into this avenue of research from a 2015 paper, have revealed that observed 'ancestral superiority' \"in vitro\" were not recapitulated \"in vivo\" of a given protein. ASR presents one of a few mechanisms to study biochemistry of the Precambrian era of life (>541Ma) and is hence often used in 'paleogenetics'; indeed Zuckerandl and Pauling originally intended ASR to be the starting point of a field they termed 'Paleobiochemistry'.\n\nSeveral related homologues of the protein of interest are selected and aligned in a multiple sequence alignment (MSA), a 'phylogenetic tree' is constructed with statistically inferred sequences at the nodes of the branches. It is these sequences that are the so-called 'ancestors' – the process of synthesising the corresponding DNA, transforming it into a cell and producing a protein is the so-called 'reconstruction'. Ancestral sequences are typically calculated by maximum likelihood, however Bayesian methods are also implemented. Because the ancestors are inferred from a phylogeny, the topology and composition of the phylogeny plays a major role in the output ASR sequences. Given that there is much discourse and debate over how to construct phylogenies – for example whether or not thermophilic bacteria are basal or derivative in bacterial evolution – many ASR papers construct several phylogenies with differing topologies and hence differing ASR sequences. These sequences are then compared and often several (~10) are expressed and studied per phylogenetic node. It should be noted that ASR does not claim to recreate the actual sequence of the ancient protein/DNA, but rather a sequence that is likely to be similar to the one that was indeed at the node. This is not considered a shortcoming of ASR as it fits into the 'neutral network' model of protein evolution, whereby at evolutionary junctions (nodes) a population of genotypically different but phenotypically similar protein sequences existed in the extant organismal population. Hence, it is possible that ASR would generate one of the sequences of a node's neutral network and while it may not represent the genotype of the last common ancestor of the modern day sequences, it does likely represent the phenotype. This is supported by the modern day observation that many mutations in a protein's non-catalytic/functional site cause minor changes in biophysical properties. Hence, ASR allows one to probe the biophysical properties of past proteins and is indicative of ancient genetics.\n\nMaximum likelihood (ML) methods work by generating a sequence where the residue at each position is predicted to be the most likely to occupy said position by the method of inference used – typically this is a scoring matrix (similar to those used in BLASTs or MSAs) calculated from extant sequences. Alternate methods include maximum parsimony (MP) that construct a sequence based on a model of sequence evolution – usually the idea that the minimum number of nucleotidal sequence changes represents the most efficient route for evolution to take and by Occam's razor is the most likely. MP is often considered the least reliable method for reconstruction as it arguably oversimplifies evolution to a degree that is not applicable on the billion year scale. Another method involves the consideration of residue uncertainty – so-called Bayesian methods – this form of ASR is sometimes used to compliment ML methods but typically produces more ambiguous sequences. In ASR, the term 'ambiguity' refers to residue positions where no clear substitution can be predicted – often in these cases, several ASR sequences are produced, encompassing most of the ambiguities and compared to one-another. ML ASR often needs complimenting experiments to indicate that the derived sequences are more than just consensuses of the input sequences. This is particularly necessary in the observation of 'Ancestral Superiority'. In the trend of increasing thermostability, one explanation is that ML ASR creates a consensus sequence of several different, parallel mechanisms evolved to confer minor protein thermostability throughout the phylogeny – leading to an additive effect resulting in 'superior' ancestral thermostability. The expression of consensus sequences and parallel ASR via non-ML methods are often required to disband this theory per experiment. One other concern raised by ML methods is that the scoring matrices are derived from modern sequences and particular amino acid frequencies seen today may not be the same as in Precambrian biology, resulting in skewed sequence inference. Several studies have attempted to construct ancient scoring matrices via various methodologies and have compared the resultant sequences and their protein's biophysical properties. While these modified sequences result in somewhat different ASR sequences, the observed biophysical properties did not seem to vary outside from experimental error. Because of the 'holistic' nature of ASR and the intense complexity that arises when one considers all the possible sources of experimental error – the experimental community considers the ultimate measurement of ASR reliability to be the comparison of several alternate ASR reconstructions of the same node and the identification of similar biophysical properties. While this method does not offer a robust statistical, mathematical measure of reliability it does build off of the fundamental idea used in ASR that individual amino acid substitutions do not cause significant biophysical property changes in a protein – a tenant that must be held true in order to be able to overcome the effect of inference ambiguity.\n\nCandidates used for ASR are often selected based on the particular property of interest being studied – e.g. thermostability. By selecting sequences from either end of a property's range (e.g., psychrophilic proteins and thermophilic proteins) but \"within\" a protein family, ASR can be used to probe the specific sequence changes that conferred the observed biophysical effect – such as stabilising interactions. Consider in the diagram, if sequence 'A' encoded a protein that was optimally functional at neutral pHs and 'D' in acidic conditions, sequence changes between '5' and '2' may illustrate the precise biophysical explanation for this difference. It should be noted that as ASR experiments can extract ancestors that are likely billions of years old, there are often tens if not hundreds of sequence changes between ancestors themselves and ancestors and extant sequences – because of this, such sequence-function evolutionary studies can take a lot of work and rational direction.\n\nThere are many examples of ancestral proteins that have been computationally reconstructed, expressed in living cell lines, and – in many cases – purified and biochemically studied. The Thornton lab notably resurrected several ancestral hormone receptors (from about 500Ma) and collaborated with the Stevens lab to resurrect ancient V-ATPase subunits from yeast (800Ma). The Marqusee lab has recently published several studies concerning the evolutionary biophysical history of \"E. coli\" Ribonuclease H1. Some other examples are ancestral visual pigments in vertebrates, enzymes in yeast that break down sugars (800Ma); enzymes in bacteria that provide resistance to antibiotics (2 – 3Ga); the ribonucleases involved in ruminant digestion; and the alcohol dehydrogenases (Adhs) involved in yeast fermentation(~85Ma).\n\nIt should be noted that the 'age' of a reconstructed sequence is determined using a molecular clock model, and often several are employed. This dating technique is often calibrated using geological time-points (such as ancient ocean constituents or BIFs) and while these clocks offer the only method of inferring a very ancient protein's age, they have sweeping error margins and are diffuclt to defend against contrary data. To this end, ASR 'age' should really be only used as an indicative feature and is often surpassed altogether for a measurement of the number of substitutions between the ancestral and the modern sequences (the fundiment on which the clock is calculated). That being said, the use of a clock allows one to compare observed biophysical data of an ASR protein to the geological or ecological environment at the time. For example, ASR studies on bacterial EF-Tus (proteins involved in translation, that are likely rarely subject to HGT and typically exhibit Tms ~2C greater than Tenv) indicate a hotter Precambrian earth which fits very closely with geological data on ancient earth ocean temperatures based on Oxygen-18 isotopic levels. ASR studies of yeast Adhs reveal that the emergence of subfunctionalized Adhs for ethanol metabolism (not just waste excretion) arose at a time similar to the dawn of fleshy fruit in the Cambrian era and that before this emergence, Adh served to excrete ethanol as a byproduct of excess pyruvate. The use of a clock also perhaps indicates that the origin of life occurred before the earliest molecular fossils indicate (>4.1Ga), but given the debatable reliability of molecular clocks, such observations should be taken with caution.\n\nThese experiments address various important questions in evolutionary biology: does evolution proceed in small steps or in large leaps; is evolution reversible; how does complexity evolve? It has been shown that slight mutations in the amino acid sequence of hormone receptors determine an important change in their preferences for hormones. These changes mean huge steps in the evolution of the endocrine system. Thus very small changes at the molecular level may have enormous consequences. The Thornton lab has also been able to show that evolution is irreversible studying the glucocorticoid receptor. This receptor was changed by seven mutations in a cortisol receptor, but reversing these mutations didn't give the original receptor back. Indicating that epistasis plays a major role in protein evolution – an observation that in combination with the observations of several examples of parallel evolution, support the neutral network model mentioned above. Other earlier neutral mutations acted as a ratchet and made the changes to the receptor irreversible. These different experiments on receptors show that, during their evolution, proteins are greatly differentiated and this explains how complexity may evolve. A closer look at the different ancestral hormone receptors and the various hormones shows that at the level of interaction between single amino acid residues and chemical groups of the hormones arise by very small but specific changes. Knowledge about these changes may for example lead to the synthesis of hormonal equivalents capable of mimicking or inhibiting the action of a hormone, which might open possibilities for new therapies.\n\nGiven that ASR has revealed a tendency towards ancient thermostability and enzymatic promiscuity, ASR poses as a valuable tool for protein engineers who often desire these traits (producing effects sometimes greater than current, rationally lead tools). ASR also promises to 'resurrect' phenotipically similar 'ancient organisms' which in turn would allow evolutionary biochemists to probe the story of life. Proponents of ASR such as Benner state that through these and other experiments, the end of the current century will see a level of understanding in biology analogous to the one that arose in classical chemistry in the last century.\n\n"}
{"id": "11823996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11823996", "title": "Chantal Maillard", "text": "Chantal Maillard\n\nChantal Maillard (born 1951) is a contemporary Spanish poet and philosopher.\n\nWith a long repertoire behind her, she has received various literary prizes for her poetry. She was awarded the Premio Nacional de Poesía in Spain in 2004 for her work \"Matar a Platón\" and the Premio de la Crítica for Spanish Poetry in 2007, as well as the Premio Andalucía de la Crítica for her work \"Hilos\". Her prose is particularly characterized for merging and transgressing literary genres. Her essays mainly concern philosophy and sometimes focus on María Zambrano.\n\nAfter receiving her doctorate in Philosophy from the University of Málaga, she spent long periods traveling and living in India, specializing in Philosophy and Religions from India at the Banaras Hindu University. Until 2000, she was a professor of Aesthetics and Art Theory at the University of Málaga, where was instrumental in the creation of the Department of Comparative Philosophy and Aesthetics.\n\nSince 1998, she has written articles on philosophy, aesthetics and Eastern Thought for several publications such as \"ABC\" and \"El País\". She has translated and edited the work of Henri Michaux, and is also known for her efforts to promote philosophy from India in many of her works.\n\nChantal Maillard has also worked on stage and adapted her works to various interdisciplinary projects, in collaboration with visual and stage artists, musicians and filmmakers from Spain and around the world.\n\n\n\n\n\nAvailable in Braille through the ONCE: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9728362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9728362", "title": "Charity (practice)", "text": "Charity (practice)\n\nThe practice of charity means the voluntary giving of help to those in need, as a humanitarian act.\n\nThe word \"charity\" originated in late Old English to mean a \"Christian love of one's fellows,\" and up until at least the beginning of the 20th century, this meaning remained synonymous with \"charity\". Aside from this original meaning, \"charity\" is etymologically linked to Christianity, with the word originally entering into the English language through the Old French word \"\"charité\", which was derived from the Latin \"caritas\", a word commonly used in the Vulgate New Testament to translate the Greek word \"agape\" (), a distinct form of \"love\"\" (see the article: Charity (virtue)).\n\nOver time, the meaning of \"charity\" has shifted from one of \"Christian love\" to that of \"providing for those in need; generosity and giving,\" a transition which began with the Old French word \"charité\". Thus, while the older Douay-Rheims and King James versions of the Bible translate instances of \"\"agape\" (such as those that appear in 1 Corinthians 13) as \"charity\", modern English versions of the Bible typically translate \"agape\" as \"love.\"\"\n\nCharitable giving is the act of giving money, goods or time to the unfortunate, either directly or by means of a charitable trust or other worthy cause. Charitable giving as a religious act or duty is referred to as almsgiving or alms. The name stems from the most obvious expression of the virtue of charity; giving the recipients of it the means they need to survive. The impoverished, particularly those widowed or orphaned, and the ailing or injured, are generally regarded as the proper recipients of charity. The people who cannot support themselves and lack outside means of support sometimes become \"beggars\", directly soliciting aid from strangers encountered in public.\n\nSome groups regard charity as being distributed towards other members from within their particular group. Although giving to those nearly connected to oneself is sometimes called charity—as in the saying \"Charity begins at home\"—normally charity denotes giving to those not related, with filial piety and like terms for supporting one's family and friends. Indeed, treating those related to the giver as if they were strangers in need of charity has led to the figure of speech \"as cold as charity\"—providing for one's relatives as if they were strangers, without affection.\n\nMost forms of charity are concerned with providing basic necessities such as food, water, clothing, healthcare and shelter, but other actions may be performed as charity: visiting the imprisoned or the homebound, ransoming captives, educating orphans, even social movements. Donations to causes that benefit the unfortunate indirectly, such as donations to fund cancer research, are also charity.\n\nWith regards to religious aspects, the recipient of charity may offer to pray for the benefactor. In medieval Europe, it was customary to feast the poor at the funeral in return for their prayers for the deceased. Institutions may commemorate benefactors by displaying their names, up to naming buildings or even the institution itself after the benefactors. If the recipient makes material return of more than a token value, the transaction is normally not called charity.\n\nIn the past century, many charitable organizations have created a \"charitable model\" in which donators give to conglomerates give to recipients. Examples of this include the Make a Wish Foundation (John Cena holds the title for most wishes granted by a single individual, with over 450 wishes) and the World Wildlife Fund. Today some charities have modernized, and allow people to donate online, through websites such as JustGiving. Originally charity entailed the benefactor directly giving the goods to the receiver. This practice was continued by some individuals, for example, \"CNN Hero\" Sal Dimiceli, and service organizations, such as the Jaycees. With the rise of more social peer-to-peer processes, many charities are moving away from the charitable model and starting to adopt this more direct donator to recipient approach. Examples of this include Global Giving (direct funding of community development projects in developing countries), DonorsChoose (for US-based projects), PureCharity, Kiva (funding loans administered by microfinance organizations in developing countries) and Zidisha (funding individual microfinance borrowers directly).\n\nInstitutions evolved to carry out the labor of assisting the poor, and these institutions, called charities, provide the bulk of charitable giving today, in terms of monetary value. These include orphanages, food banks, religious institutes dedicated to care of the poor, hospitals, organizations that visit the homebound and imprisoned, and many others. Such institutions allow those whose time or inclination does not lend themselves to directly care for the poor to enable others to do so, both by providing money for the work and supporting them while they do the work. Institutions can also attempt to more effectively sort out the actually needy from those who fraudulently claim charity. Early Christians particularly recommended the care of the unfortunate to the charge of the local bishop.\n\nThere have been examinations of who gives more to charity. One study conducted in the United States found that as a percentage of income, charitable giving increased as income decreased. The poorest fifth of Americans, for example, gave away 4.3% of their income, while the wealthiest fifth gave away 2.1%. In absolute terms, this was an average of $453 on an average income of $10,531, compared to $3,326 on an income of $158,388.\n\nCritics of charitable giving contend that simply transferring gifts or money to disadvantaged people has negative long-term effects. The online microlending organization Zidisha published a blog post which contended that providing handouts can actually cause harm by incentivizing lack of progress out of poverty, and by creating a dependence mentality among recipients. According to Zidisha, microfinance lending is a better alternative than donations, because it incentivizes successful investment of the funds and creates a can-do mentality on the part of recipients.\n\nA philosophical critique of charity can be found in Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man\", where he calls it \"a ridiculously inadequate mode of partial restitution . . . usually accompanied by some impertinent attempt on the part of the sentimentalist to tyrannise over [the poor's] private lives\", as well as a remedy that prolongs the \"disease\" of poverty, rather than curing it.\nWilde's thoughts are cited with approval by Slavoj Žižek, and the Slovenian thinker adds his description of the effect of charity on the charitable:\n\nFriedrich Engels, in his 1845 treatise on the condition of the working class in England, points out that charitable giving, whether by governments or individuals, is often seen by the givers as a means to conceal suffering that is unpleasant to see. Engels quotes from a letter to the editor of an English newspaper who complains that\n\nThe English bourgeoisie, Engels concludes,\n\nThe Institute of Economic Affairs published a report in 2012 called \"Sock Puppets: How the government lobbies itself and why\", which criticised the phenomenon of governments funding charities which then lobby the government for changes which the government wanted all along.\n\nIn medieval Europe during the 12th and 13th centuries, Latin Christendom underwent a charitable revolution. Rich patrons founded many leprosaria and hospitals for the sick and poor. New confraternities and religious orders emerged with the primary mission of engaging in intensive charitable work. Historians debate the causes. Some argue that this movement was spurred by economic and material forces, as well as a burgeoning urban culture. Other scholars argue that developments in spirituality and devotional culture were central. For still other scholars, medieval charity was primarily a way to elevate one's social status and affirm existing hierarchies of power.\n\nIn Judaism, \"tzedakah\"—a Hebrew term literally meaning righteousness but commonly used to signify \"charity\"—refers to the religious obligation to do what is right and just. Because it is commanded by the Torah and not voluntary, the practice is not technically an act of charity; such a concept is virtually nonexistent in Jewish tradition. Jews give tzedakah, which can take the form of money, time and resources to the needy, out of \"righteousness\" and \"justice\" rather than benevolence, generosity, or charitableness. The Torah requires that 10 percent of a Jew's income be allotted to righteous deeds or causes, regardless if the receiving party is rich or poor.\n\nIn Islam there are two methods of charity.\n\nOne called Zakat, the other is called Sadaqa.\n\nZakat is one of the five pillars upon which the Muslim religion is based, where 2.5% of one's saving is compulsory to be given as Zakat per Islamic calendar year, provided that the saving is beyond the threshold limit, called Nisab, usually determined by the religious authority.\n\nSadaqa is voluntary charity or contribution. Sadaqa can be given using money, personal items, time or other resources. There is no minimum or maximum requirement for Sadaqa. Even smiling to other people is considered a Sadaqa.\n\nThe practice of charity is called \"Dāna\" or \"Daana\" in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. It is the virtue of generosity or giving. Dāna has been defined in traditional texts, state Krishnan and Manoj, as “any action of relinquishing the ownership of what one considered or identified as one's own, and investing the same in a recipient without expecting anything in return”. Karna, Mahabali and Harishchandra are heroes also known for giving charity.\n\nThe earliest known discussion of charity as a virtuous practice, in Indian texts, is in Rigveda. According to other ancient texts of Hinduism, dāna can take the form of feeding or giving to an individual in distress or need. It can also take the form of philanthropic public projects that empower and help many.\n\nDāna leads to one of the perfections (\"pāramitā\"). This can be characterized by unattached and unconditional generosity, giving and letting go.\n\nHistorical records, such as those by the Persian historian Abū Rayḥān al-Bīrūnī who visited India in early 11th century, suggest \"dāna\" has been an ancient and medieval era practice among Indian religions.\n\n"}
{"id": "4435315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4435315", "title": "Christian realism (international relations)", "text": "Christian realism (international relations)\n\nChristian realism is a political theology in the Christian tradition. It is built on three biblical presumptions: the sinfulness of man, the freedom of man, and the validity and seriousness of the Great Commandment. The key political concepts of Christian realism are balance of power and political responsibility. This political-theological perspective is most closely associated with the work of the 20th-century American theologian and public intellectual Reinhold Niebuhr. Niebuhr argued that the Kingdom of God cannot be realized on earth because of the innately corrupt tendencies of society. Due to the injustices that arise among men, a person is therefore forced to compromise the ideal of Kingdom of Heaven on earth. Niebuhr argued that human perfectibility was an illusion, highlighting the sinfulness of humanity at a time when the world was confronted by the horrors of the Second World War, the Communist and Fascist totalitarian regimes, and the Holocaust. Christian realism was in part a reaction to the 20th century Social Gospel movement that was favorable to the revolutionary Marxist ideology. Numerous American political figures have been influenced by Christian realism, among them Barack Obama, Martin Luther King Jr., and Jimmy Carter. \n\nChristian realism exerted a strong influence on American foreign and domestic policy in the Cold War era. Many members of the neoconservative movement have claimed allegiance to Niebuhr's philosophy, however, some critics argued that neoconservatism neglected Niebuhr's strong commitment to social justice.\n\nGary Dorrien wrote:\nThe \"New York Times\" obituary for Niebuhr, written by Arthur Schlesinger Jr., read,\nIn the post-9/11 era, a number of scholars have been questioning the overly secular character of political realism, especially in the light of post-modern critique. Charles Jones of the University of Cambridge has suggested that international law and normative theory presuppose Christian ethics in the international relations theory. Despite the Christian realist underpinnings of scholars, originally associated with the English school, the revival of the interest towards religion in International Relations is a relatively recent phenomenon.\n\n"}
{"id": "29156349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29156349", "title": "Citizen grand jury", "text": "Citizen grand jury\n\nIn the United States, a citizen grand jury is a non-actionable, non-governmental organization that assumes a responsibility upon itself to accuse an individual or groups of individuals of having committed actionable crimes, in a similar aim as that of official grand juries. Such organizations have been organized by those who espouse conspiracy theories regarding certain events or the individuals who are accused by the citizen grand jury, and most citizen grand jury applications to official judiciary systems at the federal, state, or local and municipal level tend to be thrown out for lack of evidence.\n\nModern citizen grand juries were organized in the 2000s to accuse government officials of complicity in the September 11 attacks, and others were organized in the late 2000s and early 2010s regarding the accuracy of President Barack Obama's \"natural birth\" as a U.S. citizen.\n\nThe earliest so-called 9/11 citizen grand jury, the 23-member \"Los Angeles Citizens' Grand Jury on the Crimes of 9/11/01,\" was organized in 2004 by activist Lynne Pentz. By October of that year it had launched an \"indictment\" accusing George W. Bush and other administration officials of complicity and foreknowledge of the attacks. Among those offering testimony at the event were Webster Tarpley, Barbara Honegger, Don Paul, Jim Hoffman and Christopher Bollyn. Similar citizen grand juries were organized in San Diego later in the 2000s.\n\nSome campaigners, led by Georgia activist Carl Swensson, have sought to, \"finally expose the conspiracy behind President Obama's birth certificate,\" by forming what they term \"citizen grand juries\" to indict Obama.\nThe \"citizen grand juries\" are based on the Fifth Amendment's premise that \"no person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury.\"\n\nAlthough the activists managed to hand out copies of \"indictments\" to Congressional staff, the courts have not regarded the \"citizen grand juries\" favorably. In June 2009, a group of 172 campaigners declared themselves to be a \"Super American Grand Jury\" and voted to charge Obama with treason and accused him of not being a U.S. citizen.\nChief Judge Royce C. Lamberth of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia dismissed the \"indictment\" on July 2, 2009 and declared \"[T]here is no authority under the Rules of Procedure or in the statutes of the United States for this court to accept [a presentment]... The individuals who have made this presentment were not convened by this court to sit as a grand jury nor have they been selected at random from a fair cross section of this district. Any self-styled indictment or presentment issued by such a group has no force under the Constitution or laws of the United States.\"\n\nIn 2013, a citizen grand jury formed by Larry Klayman \"convicted\" Obama of fraud.\n\nIn 2011 there was an influx of white supremacists to Montana's Flathead Valley region. Karl Gharst, a white supremacist active in the Flathead area, publicly announced plans to form a citizen grand jury in Kalispell to indict the Montana Human Rights Network, a local anti-racism organization. Gharst, previously active in the Aryan Nations and currently founder of a group called Kalispell Pioneer Little Europe, claimed that the MHRN was a \"Jewish Defamation Organization\" and part of a \"Jewish terrorist network\".\n\nMembers of Ammon Bundy's group calling themselves \"Citizens for Constitutional Freedom\" attempted to create citizen grand juries and threatened indictments against a number of officials, both federal and local, for \"multiple constitutional crimes.\" The tactics included bringing in self-proclaimed \"judges\" who did not have legal authority under the court system. One of the self-proclaimed 'judges' threatened newsmedia with \"the crime of felony\" for attempting to report on the proceedings.\n\nIn 2018, Klayman stated his intention to convene a citizen grand jury against special counsel Robert Mueller regarding the Justice Department’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.\n"}
{"id": "28729943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28729943", "title": "Daniel Nettelbladt", "text": "Daniel Nettelbladt\n\nDaniel Nettelbladt (14 January 1719 in Rostock – 4 September 1791 in Halle) was a German jurist and philosopher.\n\nNettelbladt studied theology and law at the universities of Rostock, Marburg and Halle, where he became a doctor of law in 1744. In 1746 he became a full professor of jurisprudence in Halle, and a royal Prussian privy aulic councillor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "860860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=860860", "title": "Doping in sport", "text": "Doping in sport\n\nIn competitive sports, doping is the use of banned athletic performance-enhancing drugs by athletic competitors. The term \"doping\" is widely used by organizations that regulate sporting competitions. The use of drugs to enhance performance is considered unethical, and therefore prohibited, by most international sports organizations, including the International Olympic Committee. Furthermore, athletes (or athletic programs) taking explicit measures to evade detection exacerbates the ethical violation with overt deception and cheating.\n\nHistorically speaking, the origins of doping in sports go back to the very creation of sport itself. From ancient usage of substances in chariot racing to more recent controversies in baseball and cycling, popular views among athletes have varied widely from country to country over the years. The general trend among authorities and sporting organizations over the past several decades has been to strictly regulate the use of drugs in sport. The reasons for the ban are mainly the health risks of performance-enhancing drugs, the equality of opportunity for athletes, and the exemplary effect of drug-free sport for the public. Anti-doping authorities state that using performance-enhancing drugs goes against the \"spirit of sport\".\nThe use of drugs in sports goes back centuries, about all the way back to the very invention of the concept of sports. In ancient times, when the fittest of a nation were selected as athletes or combatants, they were fed diets and given treatments considered beneficial to help increase muscle. For instance, Scandinavian mythology says Berserkers could drink a mixture called \"butotens\", to greatly increase their physical power at the risk of insanity. One theory is that the mixture was prepared from the \"Amanita muscaria\" mushroom, though this has been disputed.\n\nThe ancient Olympics in Greece have been alleged to have had forms of doping. In ancient Rome, where chariot racing had become a huge part of their culture, athletes drank herbal infusions to strengthen them before chariot races.\n\nMore recently, a participant in an endurance walking race in Britain, Abraham Wood, said in 1807 that he had used laudanum (which contains opiates) to keep him awake for 24 hours while competing against Robert Barclay Allardyce. By April 1877, walking races had stretched to 500 miles and the following year, also at the Agricultural Hall in Islington, London, to 520 miles. The \"Illustrated London News\" chided:\n\nThe event proved popular, however, with 20,000 spectators attending each day. Encouraged, the promoters developed the idea and soon held similar races for cyclists.\n\nThe fascination with six-day bicycle races spread across the Atlantic and the same appeal brought in the crowds in America as well. And the more spectators paid at the gate, the higher the prizes could be and the greater was the incentive of riders to stay awake—or be kept awake—to ride the greatest distance. Their exhaustion was countered by soigneurs (the French word for \"carers\"), helpers akin to seconds in boxing. Among the treatments they supplied was nitroglycerine, a drug used to stimulate the heart after cardiac attacks and which was credited with improving riders' breathing. Riders suffered hallucinations from the exhaustion and perhaps the drugs. The American champion Major Taylor refused to continue the New York race, saying: \"I cannot go on with safety, for there is a man chasing me around the ring with a knife in his hand.\"\n\nPublic reaction turned against such trials, whether individual races or in teams of two. One report said:\n\nThe father of anabolic steroids in the United States was John Ziegler (1917–1983), a physician for the U.S. weightlifting team in the mid-20th century. In 1954, on his tour to Vienna with his team for the world championship, Ziegler learned from his Russian colleague that the Soviet weightlifting team's success was due to their use of testosterone as a performance-enhancing drug. Deciding that U.S. athletes needed chemical assistance to remain competitive, Ziegler worked with the CIBA Pharmaceutical Company to develop an oral anabolic steroid. This resulted in the creation of methandrostenolone, which appeared on the market in 1960. During the Olympics that year, the Danish cyclist Knud Enemark Jensen collapsed and died while competing in the 100-kilometer (62-mile) race. An autopsy later revealed the presence of amphetamines and a drug called nicotinyl tartrate in his system.\n\nThe American specialist in doping, Max M. Novich, wrote: \"Trainers of the old school who supplied treatments which had cocaine as their base declared with assurance that a rider tired by a six-day race would get his second breath after absorbing these mixtures.\" John Hoberman, a professor at the University of Texas in Austin, Texas, said six-day races were \"de facto experiments investigating the physiology of stress as well as the substances that might alleviate exhaustion.\"\n\nOver 30% of athletes participating in 2011 World Championships admitted having used banned substances during their careers. According to a study commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), actually 44% of them had used them. Nevertheless, only 0.5% of those tested were caught.\n\nThe whole Russian track and field team was banned from the 2016 Olympic Games, because the Russian State had sponsored their doping program.\n\nGoldman's dilemma, or the Goldman dilemma, is a question that was posed to elite athletes by physician, osteopath and publicist Bob Goldman, asking whether they would take a drug that would guarantee them success in sport, but cause them to die after five years. In his research, as in previous research by Mirkin, approximately half the athletes responded that they would take the drug, but modern research by James Connor and co-workers has yielded much lower numbers, with athletes having levels of acceptance of the dilemma that were similar to the general population of Australia.\n\nOver the last 20 years the appearance of steroids in sports has been seen as an epidemic. Research and limited tests have been conducted only to find short-term, reversible effects on athletes that are both physical and mental. These side effects would be alleviated if athletes were allowed the use of controlled substances under proper medical supervision. These side-effects include Intramuscular abscesses and other microbial bacteria that can cause infections, from counterfeited products the user decides to purchase on the black market, high blood pressure and cholesterol, as well as infertility, and dermatological conditions like severe acne. Mental effects include increased aggression and depression, and in rare cases suicide has been seen as well. Most studies on the effects of steroids have shown to be improper and lacking credible tests as well as performing studies in a skewed fashion to predetermine the world's view on the use of steroids in sports. Long-term effects have not been able to be pinpointed just yet due to the recency of testing these substances but would start show up as early steroid users reach the age of 50 and older.\n\nThese \"de facto experiments investigating the physiology of stress as well as the substances that might alleviate exhaustion\" were not unknown outside cycling.\n\nThomas Hicks, an American born in England on 7 January 1875, won the Olympic marathon in 1904. He crossed the line behind a fellow American Fred Lorz, who had been transported for 11 miles of the course by his trainer, leading to his disqualification. However, Hicks's trainer Charles Lucas, pulled out a syringe and came to his aid as his runner began to struggle.\n\nThe use of strychnine, at the time, was thought necessary to survive demanding races, according to sports historians Alain Lunzenfichter and historian of sports doping, Dr Jean-Pierre de Mondenard, who said:\n\nHicks was, in the phrase of the time, \"between life and death\" but recovered, collected his gold medal a few days later, and lived until 1952. Nonetheless, he never again took part in athletics.\n\nStimulants are drugs that usually act on the central nervous system to modulate mental function and behavior, increasing an individual's sense of excitement and decreasing the sensation of fatigue. In the World Anti-Doping Agency list of prohibited substances, stimulants are the second largest class after the anabolic steroids. Examples of well known stimulants include caffeine, cocaine, amphetamine, modafinil, and ephedrine. Caffeine, although a stimulant, has not been banned by the International Olympic Committee or the World Anti Doping Agency since 2004.\n\nBenzedrine is a trade name for amphetamine. The Council of Europe says it first appeared in sport at the Berlin Olympics in 1936. It was produced in 1887 and the derivative, Benzedrine, was isolated in the U.S. in 1934 by Gordon Alles. Its perceived effects gave it the street name \"speed\". British troops used 72 million amphetamine tablets in the Second World War and the RAF got through so many that \"Methedrine won the Battle of Britain\" according to one report. The problem was that amphetamine leads to a lack of judgement and a willingness to take risks, which in sport could lead to better performances but in fighters and bombers led to more crash landings than the RAF could tolerate. The drug was withdrawn but large stocks remained on the black market. Amphetamine was also used legally as an aid to slimming and also as a thymoleptic before being phased out by the appearance of newer agents in the 1950s.\n\nEverton, one of the top clubs in the English football league, were champions of the 1962–63 season. And it was done, according to a national newspaper investigation, with the help of Benzedrine. Word spread after Everton's win that the drug had been involved. The newspaper investigated, cited where the reporter believed it had come from, and quoted the goalkeeper, Albert Dunlop, as saying:\n\nThe club agreed that drugs had been used but that they \"could not possibly have had any harmful effect.\" Dunlop, however, said he had become an addict.\n\nIn November 1942, the Italian cyclist Fausto Coppi took \"seven packets of amphetamine\" to beat the world hour record on the track. In 1960, the Danish rider Knud Enemark Jensen collapsed during the 100 km team time trial at the Olympic Games in Rome and died later in hospital. The autopsy showed he had taken amphetamine and another drug, Ronicol, which dilates the blood vessels. The chairman of the Dutch cycling federation, Piet van Dijk, said of Rome that \"dope – whole cartloads – [were] used in such royal quantities.\"\n\nThe 1950s British cycling professional Jock Andrews would joke: \"You need never go off-course chasing the peloton in a big race – just follow the trail of empty syringes and dope wrappers.\"\n\nThe Dutch cycling team manager Kees Pellenaars told of a rider in his care:\n\nCurrently modafinil is being used throughout the sporting world, with many high-profile cases attracting press coverage as prominent United States athletes have failed tests for this substance. Some athletes who were found to have used modafinil protested as the drug was not on the prohibited list at the time of their offence, however, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) maintains it is a substance related to those already banned, so the decisions stand. Modafinil was added to the list of prohibited substances on 3 August 2004, ten days before the start of the 2004 Summer Olympics.\n\nOne approach of athletes to get around regulations on stimulants is to use new designer stimulants, which have not previously been officially prohibited, but have similar chemical structures or biological effects. Designer stimulants that attracted media attention in 2010 included mephendrone, ephendrome, and fluoroamphetamines; which have chemical structures and effects similar to ephedrine and amphetamine.\n\nAnabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) were first isolated, identified and synthesized in the 1930s, and are now used therapeutically in medicine to induce bone growth, stimulate appetite, induce male puberty, and treat chronic wasting conditions, such as cancer and AIDS. Anabolic steroids also increase muscle mass and physical strength, and are therefore used in sports and bodybuilding to enhance strength or physique. Known side effects include harmful changes in cholesterol levels (increased Low density lipoprotein and decreased High density lipoprotein), acne, high blood pressure, and liver damage. Some of these effects can be mitigated by taking supplemental drugs.\n\nAAS use in sports began in October 1954 when John Ziegler, a doctor who treated American athletes, went to Vienna with the American weightlifting team. There he met a Russian physician who, over \"a few drinks\", repeatedly asked \"What are you giving your boys?\" When Ziegler returned the question, the Russian said that his own athletes were being given testosterone. Returning to America, Ziegler tried low doses of testosterone on himself, on the American trainer Bob Hoffman and on two lifters, Jim Park and Yaz Kuzahara. All gained more weight and strength than any training programme would produce but there were side-effects. Ziegler sought a drug without after-effects and hit on an anabolic steroid, methandrostenolone, (Dianabol, DBOL), made in the US in 1958 by Ciba.\n\nThe results were so impressive that lifters began taking more, and steroids spread to other sports. Paul Lowe, a former running back with the San Diego Chargers American football team, told a California legislative committee on drug abuse in 1970: \"We had to take them [steroids] at lunchtime. He [an official] would put them on a little saucer and prescribed them for us to take them and if not he would suggest there might be a fine.\"\n\nOlympic statistics show the weight of shot putters increased 14 percent between 1956 and 1972, whereas steeplechasers weight increased 7.6 per cent. The gold medalist pentathlete Mary Peters said: \"A medical research team in the United States attempted to set up extensive research into the effects of steroids on weightlifters and throwers, only to discover that there were so few who weren't taking them that they couldn't establish any worthwhile comparisons.\" In 1984, Jay Silvester, a former four-time Olympian and 1972 silver medalist in the discus, who was then with the physical education department of Brigham Young University in the U.S., questioned competitors at that year's Olympics. The range of steroid use he found ranged from 10 mg a day to 100 mg.\n\nA number of studies measuring anabolic steroid use in high school athletes found that out of all 12th grade students, 6.6 percent of them had used anabolic steroids at some point in their high school careers or were approached and counseled to use them. Of those students who acknowledged doping with anabolic–androgenic steroids, well over half participated in school-sponsored athletics, including football, wrestling, track and field, and baseball. A second study showed 6.3 percent of high school student Football players admitted to current or former AAS use. At the collegiate level, surveys show that AAS use among athletes range from 5 percent to 20 percent and continues to rise. The study found that skin changes were an early marker of steroid use in young athletes, and underscored the important role that dermatologists could play in the early detection and intervention in these athletes.\n\nA famous case of AAS use in a competition was Canadian Ben Johnson's victory in the 100 m at the 1988 Summer Olympics. He subsequently failed the drug test when stanozolol was found in his urine. He later admitted to using the steroid as well as Dianabol, testosterone, Furazabol, and human growth hormone amongst other things. Johnson was stripped of his gold medal as well as his world-record performance. Carl Lewis was then promoted one place to take the Olympic gold title. Lewis had also run under the current world record time and was therefore recognized as the new record holder. In 2003, however, Wade Exum, the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) director of drug control administration from 1991 to 2000, gave copies of documents to \"Sports Illustrated\" which revealed that some 100 American athletes who failed drug tests and should have been prevented from competing in the Olympics were nevertheless cleared to compete; among those athletes was Carl Lewis.\n\nLewis broke his silence on allegations that he was the beneficiary of a drugs cover-up, admitting he had failed tests for banned substances, but claiming he was just one of \"hundreds\" of American athletes who were allowed to escape bans, concealed by the USOC. Lewis has now acknowledged that he failed three tests during the 1988 US Olympic trials, which under international rules at the time should have prevented him from competing in the Seoul games. Former athletes and officials came out against the USOC cover-up. \"For so many years I lived it. I knew this was going on, but there's absolutely nothing you can do as an athlete. You have to believe governing bodies are doing what they are supposed to do. And it is obvious they did not,\" said former American sprinter and 1984 Olympic champion, Evelyn Ashford.\n\nIn 1977, one of East Germany's best sprinters, Renate Neufeld, fled to the West with the Bulgarian she later married. A year later she said that she had been told to take drugs supplied by coaches while training to represent East Germany in the 1980 Olympic Games.\n\nShe brought with her to the West grey tablets and green powder she said had been given to her, to members of her club, and to other athletes. The West German doping analyst Manfred Donike reportedly identified them as anabolic steroids. She said she stayed quiet for a year for the sake of her family. But when her father then lost his job and her sister was expelled from her handball club, she decided to tell her story.\nEast Germany closed itself to the sporting world in May 1965. In 1977, the shot-putter Ilona Slupianek, who weighed 93 kg, failed a test for anabolic steroids at the European Cup meeting in Helsinki and thereafter athletes were tested before they left the country. At the same time, the Kreischa testing laboratory near Dresden passed into government control, which was reputed to make around 12,000 tests a year on East German athletes but without any being penalised.\n\nThe International Amateur Athletics Federation suspended Slupianek for 12 months, a penalty that ended two days before the European championships in Prague. In the reverse of what the IAAF hoped, sending her home to East Germany meant she was free to train unchecked with anabolic steroids, if she wanted to, and then compete for another gold medal, which she won.\n\nAfter that, almost nothing emerged from the East German sports schools and laboratories. A rare exception was the visit by the sports writer and former athlete, Doug Gilbert of the \"Edmonton Sun\", who said:\n\nOther reports came from the occasional athlete who fled to the West. There were 15 between 1976 and 1979. One, the ski-jumper Hans-Georg Aschenbach, said: \"Long-distance skiers start having injections to their knees from the age 14 because of their intensive training.\" He said: \"For every Olympic champion, there at least 350 invalids. There are gymnasts among the girls who have to wear corsets from the age of 18 because their spine and their ligaments have become so worn... There are young people so worn out by the intensive training that they come out of it mentally blank [\"lessivés\" – washed out], which is even more painful than a deformed spine.\"\n\nAfter German reunification, on 26 August 1993 the records were opened and the evidence was there that the Stasi, the state secret police, supervised systematic doping of East German athletes from 1971 until reunification in 1990. Doping existed in other countries, says the expert Jean-Pierre de Mondenard, both communist and capitalist, but the difference with East Germany was that it was a state policy. The \"Sportvereinigung Dynamo\" (English:\"Dynamo Sports Club\") was especially singled out as a center for doping in the former East Germany. Many former club officials and some athletes found themselves charged after the dissolution of the country. A special page on the internet was created by doping victims trying to gain justice and compensation, listing people involved in doping in the GDR.\n\nState-endorsed doping began with the Cold War when every eastern bloc gold was an ideological victory. From 1974, Manfred Ewald, the head of the GDR's sports federation, imposed blanket doping. At the 1968 Mexico City Olympics, the country of 17 million collected nine gold medals. Four years later the total was 20 and in 1976 it doubled again to 40. Ewald was quoted as having told coaches, \"They're still so young and don't have to know everything.\" He was given a 22-month suspended sentence, to the outrage of his victims. Often, doping was carried out without the knowledge of the athletes, some of them as young as ten years of age. It is estimated that around 10,000 former athletes bear the physical and mental scars of years of drug abuse, one of them is Rica Reinisch, a triple Olympic champion and world record-setter at the Moscow Games in 1980, has since suffered numerous miscarriages and recurring ovarian cysts.\n\nTwo former Dynamo Berlin club doctors, Dieter Binus, chief of the national women's team from 1976 to 80, and Bernd Pansold, in charge of the sports medicine center in East-Berlin, were committed for trial for allegedly supplying 19 teenagers with illegal substances. Binus was sentenced in August, Pansold in December 1998 after both being found guilty of administering hormones to underage female athletes from 1975 to 1984.\n\nVirtually no East German athlete ever failed an official drugs test, though Stasi files show that many did produce failed tests at Kreischa, the Saxon laboratory (German:\"Zentrales Dopingkontroll-Labor des Sportmedizinischen Dienstes\") that was at the time approved by the International Olympic Committee, now called the \"Institute of Doping Analysis and Sports Biochemistry\" (IDAS). In 2005, 15 years after the end of the \"GDR\", the manufacturer of the drugs in former East Germany, Jenapharm, still finds itself involved in numerous lawsuits from doping victims, being sued by almost 200 former athletes.\n\nFormer Sport Club Dynamo athletes who publicly admitted to doping, accusing their coaches:\n\n\nFormer Sport Club Dynamo athletes disqualified for doping:\n\n\nBased on the admission by Pollack, the United States Olympic Committee asked for the redistribution of gold medals won in the 1976 Summer Olympics. Despite court rulings in Germany that substantiate claims of systematic doping by some East German swimmers, the IOC executive board announced that it has no intention of revising the Olympic record books. In rejecting the American petition on behalf of its women's medley relay team in Montreal and a similar petition from the British Olympic Association on behalf of Sharron Davies, the IOC made it clear that it wanted to discourage any such appeals in the future.\n\nAccording to British journalist Andrew Jennings, a KGB colonel stated that the agency's officers had posed as anti-doping authorities from the International Olympic Committee to undermine doping tests and that Soviet athletes were \"rescued with [these] tremendous efforts\". On the topic of the 1980 Summer Olympics, a 1989 Australian study said \"There is hardly a medal winner at the Moscow Games, certainly not a gold medal winner, who is not on one sort of drug or another: usually several kinds. The Moscow Games might as well have been called the Chemists' Games.\"\n\nA member of the IOC Medical Commission, Manfred Donike, privately ran additional tests with a new technique for identifying abnormal levels of testosterone by measuring its ratio to epitestosterone in urine. Twenty percent of the specimens he tested, including those from sixteen gold medalists would have resulted in disciplinary proceedings had the tests been official. The results of Donike's unofficial tests later convinced the IOC to add his new technique to their testing protocols. The first documented case of \"blood doping\" occurred at the 1980 Summer Olympics as a runner was transfused with two pints of blood before winning medals in the 5000 m and 10,000 m.\n\nDocuments obtained in 2016 revealed the Soviet Union's plans for a statewide doping system in track and field in preparation for the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. Dated prior to the country's decision to boycott the Games, the document detailed the existing steroids operations of the program, along with suggestions for further enhancements. The communication, directed to the Soviet Union's head of track and field, was prepared by Dr. Sergei Portugalov of the Institute for Physical Culture. Portugalov was also one of the main figures involved in the implementation of the Russian doping program prior to the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nThere have been few incidents of doping in football, mainly due to FIFA's belief that education and prevention with constant in and out-of-competition controls play a key role in making high-profile competitions free of performance-enhancing drugs. The FIFA administration work alongside team physicians to fight for dope free competitions, having them sign a joint declaration that states they agree with having routine blood testing to check for blood doping before any FIFA World Cup.\n\nIn 2014, the biological passport was introduced in the 2014 FIFA World Cup; blood and urine samples from all players before the competition and from two players per team and per match are analysed by the Swiss Laboratory for Doping Analyses.\n\nIn December 2013, the UFC began a campaign to drug test their entire roster randomly all year-round. Random testing, however, became problematic for the promotion as it began to affect revenue, as fighters who had tested positive would need to be taken out of fights, which adversely affected fight cards, and therefore pay-per-view sales. If the UFC were not able to find a replacement fighter fights would have to be cancelled. According to Steven Marrocco of MMAjunkie.com, about 31% of UFC fighters subjected to random testing since the program first started have failed due to using performance-enhancing drugs. That is approximately five failed tests for every sixteen random screenings.\n\nFrom July 2015, the UFC has advocated to all commissions that every fighter be tested in competition for every card. Lorenzo Feritta, who at the time was one of the presidents of the UFC, said, \"We want 100 percent of the fighters tested the night they compete\". Also, in addition to the drug testing protocols in place for competitors on fight night, the UFC conducts additional testing for main event fighters or any fighters that are due to compete in championship matches. This includes enhanced, random 'out of competition' testing for performance-enhancing drugs, with both urine and blood samples being taken. The UFC also announced that all potential UFC signees would be subject to mandatory pre-contract screening for performance-enhancing drugs prior to being offered a contract with the promotion.\n\nThe use of performance-enhancing drugs in sport has become an increasing problem across a wide range of sports. It is defined as any substance or drug that, when taken, gives an athlete an unfair advantage relative to a \"clean\" athlete. The banning of these drugs promotes a level playing field and equality among athletes. The use of 'the suit' in swimming, which gives athletes an advantage in the way of hydrodynamics, has been banned from international competition due to the unfair advantage it delivered. The drugs taken by athletes differ widely based on the performance needs of the sport.\n\nErythropoietin (EPO) is largely taken by endurance athletes who seek a higher level of red blood cells, which leads to more oxygenated blood, and a higher VO2 max. An athlete's VO2 max is highly correlated with success within endurance sports such as swimming, long-distance running, cycling, rowing, and cross-country skiing. EPO has recently become prevalent amongst endurance athletes due to its potentcy and low degree of detectability when compared to other methods of doping such as blood transfusion. While EPO is believed to have been widely used by athletes in the 1990s, there was not a way to directly test for the drug until 2002 as there was no specific screening process to test athletes . Athletes at the Olympic Games are tested for EPO through blood and urine tests. Stringent guidelines and regulations can lessen the danger of doping that has existed within some endurance sports.\n\nIn 1924 the journalist Albert Londres followed the Tour de France for the French newspaper \"Le Petit Parisien\". At Coutances he heard that the previous year's winner, Henri Pélissier, his brother Francis and a third rider, Maurice Ville, had resigned from the competition after an argument with the organiser Henri Desgrange. Pélissier explained the problem—whether or not he had the right to take off a jersey—and went on to talk of drugs, reported in Londres' race diary, in which he invented the phrase \"Les Forçats de la Route\" (\"The Convicts of the Road\"):\n\nHenri spoke of being as white as shrouds once the dirt of the day had been washed off, then of their bodies being drained by diarrhea, before continuing:\n\nFrancis Pélissier said much later: \"Londres was a famous reporter but he didn't know about cycling. We kidded him a bit with our cocaine and our pills. Even so, the Tour de France in 1924 was no picnic.\" The acceptance of drug-taking in the Tour de France was so complete by 1930, when the race changed to national teams that were to be paid for by the organisers, that the rule book distributed to riders by the organiser, Henri Desgrange, reminded them that drugs were not among items with which they would be provided. The use of Pot Belge by road cyclists in continental Europe exemplifies a cross-over between recreational and performance-enhancing abuse of drugs by sportsman.\n\nIn 1998, the entire Festina team were excluded from the Tour de France following the discovery of a team car containing large amounts of various performance-enhancing drugs. The team director later admitted that some of the cyclists were routinely given banned substances. Six other teams pulled out in protest including Dutch team TVM who left the tour still being questioned by the police. The Festina scandal overshadowed cyclist Marco Pantani's tour win, but he himself later failed a test. The infamous \"pot belge\" or \"Belgian mix\" has a decades-long history in pro cycling, among both riders and support staff. David Millar, the 2003 World-Time Trial Champion, admitted using EPO, and was stripped of his title and suspended for two years. Roberto Heras was stripped of his victory in the 2005 Vuelta a España and suspended for two years after testing positive for EPO.\n\nFloyd Landis was the initial winner of the 2006 Tour de France. However, a urine sample taken from Landis immediately after his Stage 17 win has twice tested positive for banned synthetic testosterone as well as a ratio of testosterone to epitestosterone nearly three times the limit allowed by World Anti-Doping Agency rules. The International Cycling Union stripped him of his 2006 Tour de France title. Second place finisher Óscar Pereiro was officially declared the winner.\n\nLance Armstrong was world number one in 1996. In the same year he recovered from severe testicular cancer and continued to break records and win his seventh Tour de France in 2005. After beating cancer and breaking records he was accused of doping. Teammates of Lance had been caught taking EPO (Erythropoietin) which made the accusations against Armstrong stronger.\n\nOn 22 October 2012 Lance Armstrong was stripped of his Tour de France titles since 1998. As a response to the decisions of the USADA and UCI, Armstrong resigned from the Lance Armstrong Foundation On 14 January 2013, Armstrong confessed to doping in an interview with Oprah Winfrey which was aired on 17 January on the Oprah Winfrey Network.\n\nIn triathlon, 2004 Hawaii Ironman winner Nina Kraft, was disqualified for a positive test to EPO. She remains the only Hawaii Ironman winner to be disqualified for doping offences. Sports lawyer Michelle Gallen has said that the pursuit of doping athletes has turned into a modern-day witch-hunt.\n\nIn sports where physical strength is favored, athletes have used anabolic steroids, known for their ability to increase physical strength and muscle mass. The drug mimics the effect of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone in the body. They were developed after Eastern Bloc countries demonstrated success in weightlifting during the 1940s. At the time they were using testosterone, which carried with it negative effects, anabolic steroids were developed as a solution. The drug has been used across a wide range of sports from football and basketball to weightlifting and track and field. While not as life-threatening as the drugs used in endurance sports, anabolic steroids have negative side effects, including:\n\n\nSide effects in women include:\n\nIn countries where the use of these drugs is controlled, there is often a black market trade of smuggled or counterfeit drugs. The quality of these drugs may be poor and can cause health risks. In countries where anabolic steroids are strictly regulated, some have called for a regulatory relief. Steroids are available over-the-counter in some countries such as Thailand and Mexico.\n\nMany sports organizations have banned the use of performance-enhancing drugs and have very strict rules and penalties for people who are caught using them. The International Amateur Athletic Federation, now the International Association of Athletics Federations, were the first international governing body of sport to take the situation seriously. In 1928 they banned participants from doping, but with little in the way of testing available they had to rely on the word of the athlete that they were clean.\nIt was not until 1966 that FIFA and Union Cycliste Internationale (cycling) joined the IAAF in the fight against drugs, followed by the International Olympic Committee the following year. Progression in pharmacology has always outstripped the ability of sports federations to implement rigorous testing procedures but since the creation of the World Anti-Doping Agency in 1999, it has become more effective to catch athletes who use drugs. The first tests for athletes were at the 1966 European Championships and two years later the IOC implemented their first drug tests at both the Summer and Winter Olympics. Anabolic steroids became prevalent during the 1970s and after a method of detection was found they were added to the IOC's prohibited substances list in 1975.\n\nOver the years, different sporting bodies have evolved differently in the struggle against doping. Some, such as athletics and cycling, are becoming increasingly vigilant against doping. However, there has been criticism that sports such as football (soccer) and baseball are doing nothing about the issue, and letting athletes implicated in doping away unpunished.\n\nSome commentators maintain that, as outright prevention of doping is an impossibility, all doping should be legalised. However, most disagree with this, pointing out the claimed harmful long-term effects of many doping agents. Opponents claim that with doping legal, all competitive athletes would be compelled to use drugs, and the net effect would be a level playing field but with widespread health consequences. A common rebuttal to this argument asserts that anti-doping efforts have been largely ineffective due to both testing limitations and lack of enforcement, and so sanctioned steroid use would not be markedly different from the situation already in existence.\n\nAnother point of view is that doping could be legalized to some extent using a drug whitelist and medical counseling, such that medical safety is ensured, with all usage published. Under such a system, it is likely that athletes would attempt to cheat by exceeding official limits to try to gain an advantage; this could be considered conjecture as drug amounts do not always correlate linearly with performance gains.\n\nSocial pressure is one of the factors that leads to doping in sport.The media and society work together to construct a view of what masculinity and femininity should look like. Adolescent athletes are constantly influenced by what they see on the media, and some go to extreme measures to achieve the ideal image since society channels Judith Butler’s definition of gender as a performative act. Examples of social pressures were given in a study done on an online bodybuilding community where bodybuilders doped because they felt like it was a rite of passage to be accepted into the community, and to feel validated. Both men and women are being materialized in the context of doping in sport; in an interview involving 140 men, it was concluded that “bodily practices are essential for masculine identity,\" and it was determined that the media highly publicizes female athletes who were strong, and thin. This leads to the issue of the consumption of performance enhancement drugs to achieve muscular or thin figures, and the assumption that the opponents are also taking performance enhancing drugs, deeming it as an acceptable behavior to conform to. In addition, society's embracement of the “winning is everything” spirit leads many athletes to participate in doping, hoping that they will not be caught. \n\nElite athletes have financial competitive motivations that cause them to dope and these motivations differ from that of recreational athletes. The common theme among these motivations is the pressure to physically perform. In a study of 101 individuals, 86% responded that their use of performance enhancement drugs were influenced by the potential athletic success, 74% by the economic aspect, and 30% by self-confidence and social recognition related reasons. In another study of 40 people, it was concluded that athletes used performance enhancement drugs for for healing purposes so that they were an able competitor for the economic rewards involved with elite sports. Physical pressures often overlap with social pressures to have a certain body build. This is the case with muscle dysmorphia, where an athlete wants a more muscular physique for functionality and self- image purposes. The most popular motive for for athletes to take supplements is to prevent any nutrient deficiencies and to strengthen the immune system.These factors all focus on improving the body for performance.\n\nPsychology is another factor to take into consideration in doping in sport. It becomes a behavioral issue when the athlete acknowledges the health risks associated with doping, yet participates in it anyways. This has to do with the psychological thinking that the drug will make one feel invincible. The individuals are very egotistic in their way of thinking and their motivation is dependent on the performance enhancement drug since they believe that it delivers the results. On a study on health psychology, Quirk points out three different psychological aspects that lead one to dope: social cognition, stress and strain, and addiction. The social and physically pressures can alter an athlete’s way of thinking, leading them to believe that they must take performance enhancement drugs since everyone else is doing it, known as “the doping dilemma.”\n\n\nUnder established doping control protocols, the participant will be asked to provide a urine sample, which will be divided into two, each portion to be preserved within sealed containers bearing the same unique identifying number and designation respectively as A- and B-samples. WADA's Executive Committee and Foundation Board clarified at a meeting on 19–20 November, that an athlete whose A-sample has revealed the presence of a prohibited substance or method to request the analysis of his or her B-sample:\n\n\"see also:\" blood doping\n\nThe blood test detects illegal performance enhancement drugs through the measurement of indicators that change with the use of recombinant human erythropoietin:\n\n\nThe gas chromatography-combustion-IRMS is a way to detect any variations in the isotopic composition of an organic compound from the standard. This test is used to detect whether or not synthetic testosterone was consumed, leading to an increased abnormal testosterone/epitestosterone (T/E) level. \n\nAssumptions:\n\n\nThe lower the 13C/12C ratio, the more likely that synthetic testosterone was used.\n\nThe athlete biological passport is a program that tracks the location an athlete to combat doping in sports. This means that the athlete can be monitored and drug tested wherever they are and this data can be compared to the history of their doping test results. There is an ongoing discussion about how this measure can be seen as a violation of an individual's privacy.\n\nAccording to Article 6.5 in the World Anti-Doping Code samples may be re-tested later. Samples from high-profile events, such as the Olympic Games, are now re-tested up to eight years later to take advantage of new techniques for detecting banned substances.\n\nAthletes seeking to avoid testing positive use various methods. The most common methods include:\n\nDonald Berry, writing in the journal \"Nature\", has called attention to potential problems with the validity of ways in which many of the standardised tests are performed; in his article, as described in an accompanying editorial, Berry The editorial closes, saying \"Nature believes that accepting 'legal limits' of specific metabolites without such rigorous verification goes against the foundational standards of modern science, and results in an arbitrary test for which the rate of false positives and false negatives can never be known.\"\n\nG. Pascal Zachary argues in a \"Wired\" essay that legalizing performance-enhancing substances, as well as genetic enhancements once they became available, would satisfy society's need for übermenschen and reverse the decline in public interest in sports.\n\nSports scholar Verner Moller argues that society is hypocritical when it holds athletes to moral standards, but do not conform to those morals themselves. Fox Sports writer Jen Floyd Engel stated in an article, \"We live in a pharmacological society. We live in a society of short cuts, of fake this and enhanced that, and somehow we keep trying to sell the line that sports has become this evil empire of cheating. The reality is athletes are merely doing what so many of us do and celebrate and watch every single day of our lives.\"\n\nSociologist Ellis Cashmore argues that what is considered doping is too arbitrary: transfusing blood cells is not allowed, but other methods of boosting blood cell count, such as hypobaric chambers, are allowed. Other scholars have advanced similar arguments.\n\nAnti-doping policies instituted by individual sporting governing bodies may conflict with local laws. A notable case includes the National Football League (NFL)'s inability to suspend players found with banned substances, after it was ruled by a federal court that local labor laws superseded the NFL's anti-doping regime. The challenge was supported by the National Football League Players Association.\n\nAthletes caught doping may be subject to penalties from their local, as well from the individual sporting, governing body. The legal status of anabolic steroids varies from country to country. Fighters found using performance-enhancing drugs in mixed martial arts competitions (e.g. the UFC) could face civil and/or criminal charges once Bill S-209 passes.\n\nUnder certain circumstances, when athletes need to take a prohibited substance to treat a medical condition, a therapeutic use exemption may be granted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15327084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15327084", "title": "Eigen-ji", "text": "Eigen-ji\n\nEigen-ji's first abbot was the famous poet and roshi Jakushitsu Genko. It was a popular destination for members of the 'Five Mountain Schools of Zen' during the Onin War of the 15th century. After a series of fires that burned the place down during the late 15th and first half of the 16th century, a newly installed abbot named Isshi Bunshu restored the temple. He is commonly referred to as its second founder.\n\nToday it is the head temple of the Eigen-ji branch of Rinzai Zen and governs more than 120 temples and one monastery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7912930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7912930", "title": "Eternal return (Eliade)", "text": "Eternal return (Eliade)\n\nThe \"eternal return\" is an idea for interpreting religious behavior proposed by the historian Mircea Eliade; it is a belief expressed through behavior (sometimes implicitly, but often explicitly) that one is able to become contemporary with or return to the \"mythical age\"—the time when the events described in one's myths occurred. It should be distinguished from the philosophical concept of \"eternal return\".\n\nAccording to Eliade,\nThis concept had already been extensively formulated by the French sociologist Émile Durkheim in 1912, Scholars such as Jack Goody gave evidence that it may not be universal.\n\nThis sharp distinction between the sacred and the profane is Eliade's trademark theory. According to Eliade, traditional man distinguishes two levels of existence: (1) the Sacred, and (2) the profane world. (Here \"the Sacred\" can be God, gods, mythical ancestors, or any other beings who established the world's structure.) To traditional man, things \"acquire their reality, their identity, only to the extent of their participation in a transcendent reality\". Something in our world is only \"real\" to the extent that it conforms to the Sacred or the patterns established by the Sacred.\n\nHence, there is profane space, and there is sacred space. Sacred space is space where the Sacred manifests itself; unlike profane space, sacred space has a sense of direction:\nWhere the Sacred intersects our world, it appears in the form of ideal models (e.g., the actions and commandments of gods or mythical heroes). All things become truly \"real\" by imitating these models. Eliade claims: \"For archaic man, reality is a function of the imitation of a celestial archetype.\" As evidence for this view, in \"The Myth of the Eternal Return\", he cites a belief of the Iranian Zurvanites. The Zurvanites believed that each thing on Earth corresponds to a sacred, celestial counterpart: for the physical sky, there is a sacred sky; for the physical Earth, there is a sacred Earth; actions are virtuous by conforming to a sacred pattern. These are some other examples Eliade gives:\nAccording to Mesopotamian beliefs, the Tigris has its model in the star Anunit and the Euphrates in the star of the Swallow. A Sumerian text tells of the \"place of the creation of the gods,\" where \"the [divinity of] the flocks and grains\" is to be found. For the Ural–Altaic peoples the mountains, in the same way, have an ideal archetype in the sky. In Egypt, places and nomes were named after the celestial \"fields\": first the celestial fields were known, then they were identified in terrestrial geography.\n\nFurther, there is profane time, and there is sacred time. According to Eliade, myths describe a time that is fundamentally different from historical time (what modern man would consider \"normal\" time). \"In short,\" says Eliade, \"myths describe ... breakthroughs of the sacred (or the 'supernatural') into the World\". The mythical age is the time when the Sacred entered our world, giving it form and meaning: \"The manifestation of the sacred ontologically founds the world\". Thus, the mythical age is sacred time, the only time that has value for traditional man.\n\nAccording to Eliade, in the archaic worldview, the power of a thing resides in its origin, so that \"knowing the origin of an object, an animal, a plant, and so on is equivalent to acquiring a magical power over them\". The way a thing was created establishes that thing's nature, the pattern to which it should conform. By gaining control over the origin of a thing, one also gains control over the thing itself.\n\nEliade concluded that, if origin and power are to be the same, \"it is the first manifestation of a thing that is significant and valid\". The Sacred first manifested itself in the events of the mythical age; hence, traditional man sees the mythical age as the foundation of value.\n\nEliade's theory implies that as the power of a thing lies in its origin, the entire world's power lies in the cosmogony. If the Sacred established all valid patterns in the beginning, during the time recorded in myth, then the mythical age is sacred time—the only time that contains any value. Man's life only has value to the extent that it conforms to the patterns of the mythical age.\n\nThe religion of the Australian Aboriginals is supposed to contain many examples of the veneration paid to the mythical age. Just before the dawn of the first day, the Bagadjimbiri brothers emerged from the Earth in the form of dingos, and then turned into human giants whose heads touched the sky. Before the Bagadjimbiri came, nothing had existed. But when the sun rose, and the brothers began naming things, the \"plants and animals began really to exist\". The brothers met a group of people and organized them into a civilized society. The people of this tribe—the Karadjeri of Australia—still imitate the two brothers in many ways:\nOne of the Bagadjimbiri stopped to urinate [...] That is the reason why the Australian Karadjeri stop and take up a special position in order to urinate. [...] The brothers stopped and ate a certain grain raw; but they immediately burst into laughter, because they knew that one ought not eat it so [...] and since then men imitate them whenever they have this grain cooked. The Bagadjimbiri threw a primal (a kind of large baton) at an animal and killed it—and this is how men have done it ever since. A great many myths describe the manner in which the brothers Bagadjimbiri founded all the customs of the Karadjeri, and even their behavior.\n\nThe mythical age was the time when the Sacred appeared and established reality. For traditional man, Eliade argues, (1) only the first appearance of something has value; (2) only the Sacred has value; and, therefore, (3) only the first appearance of the Sacred has value. Because the Sacred first appeared in the mythical age, only the mythical age has value. According to Eliade's hypothesis, \"primitive man was interested only in the beginnings ... to him it mattered little what had happened to himself, or to others like him, in more or less distant times\". Hence, traditional societies express a \"nostalgia for the origins\", a yearning to return to the mythical age. To traditional man, life only has value in sacred time.\n\nEliade also explained how traditional man could find value for his own life (in a vision of where all events occurring after the mythical age cannot have value or reality); he indicated that, if the Sacred's essence lies only in its first appearance, then any later appearance must actually be the first appearance. Thus, an imitation of a mythical event is actually the mythical event itself, happening again—myths and rituals carry one back to the mythical age:\n\"In imitating the exemplary acts of a god or of a mythic hero, or simply by recounting their adventures, the man of an archaic society detaches himself from profane time and magically re-enters the Great Time, the sacred time.\"\nMyth and ritual are vehicles of \"eternal return\" to the mythical age. Traditional man's myth- and ritual-filled life constantly unites him with sacred time, giving his existence value. As an example of this phenomenon, Eliade cites church services, by which churchgoers \"return\" to the sacred time of Scripture:\n\"Just as a church constitutes a break in plane in the profane space of a modern city, [so] the service celebrated inside [the church] marks a break in profane temporal duration. It is no longer today's historical time that is present—the time that is experienced, for example, in the adjacent streets—but the time in which the historical existence of Jesus Christ occurred, the time sanctified by his preaching, by his passion, death, and resurrection.\n\nEliade attributes the well-known \"cyclic\" view of time in ancient thought to the eternal return. In many religions, a ritual cycle correlates certain parts of the year with mythical events, making each year a repetition of the mythical age. For instance, Australian Aboriginal peoples annually reenact the events of the \"Dreamtime\":\n\"The animals and plants created \"in illo tempore\" by the Supernatural Beings are ritually re-created. In Kimberley the rock paintings, which are believed to have been painted by the Ancestors, are repainted in order to reactivate their creative force, as it was first manifested in the mythical times, at the beginning of the World.\" \nEvery New Year, the people of Mesopotamia reenacted the \"Enuma Elish\", a creation myth, in which the god Marduk slays Tiamat, the primordial monster, and creates the world from her body. They correlated the birth of the year with the mythical birth of the world.\n\nBy periodically bringing man back to the mythical age, these liturgical cycles turn time itself into a circle. Those who perform an annual ritual return to the same point in time every 365 days: \"With each periodical [ritual] festival, the participants find the same sacred time—the same that had been manifested in the festival of the previous year or in the festival of a century earlier.\"\n\nAccording to Eliade, some traditional societies express their cyclic experience of time by equating the world with the year:\n\"In a number of North American Indian languages the term world (= Cosmos) is also used in the sense of year. The Yokuts says 'the world has passed,' meaning 'a year has gone by.' For the Yuki, the year is expressed by the words for earth or world. [...] The cosmos is conceived [of] as a living unity that is born, develops, and dies on the last day of the year, to be reborn on New Year's Day. [...] At every New Year, time begins \"ab initio\".\"\nThe New Year ritual reenacts the mythical beginning of the cosmos. Therefore, by the logic of the eternal return, each New Year \"is\" the beginning of the cosmos. Thus, time flows in a closed circle, always returning to the sacred time celebrated during the New Year: the cosmos's entire duration is limited to one year, which repeats itself indefinitely.\n\nThese ritual cycles do more than give humans a sense of value. Because traditional man identifies reality with the Sacred, he believes that the world can endure only if it remains in sacred time. He periodically revives sacred time through myths and rituals in order to keep the universe in existence. In many cultures, this belief appears to be consciously held and clearly stated. From the perspective of these societies, the world\n\"must be periodically renewed or it may perish. The idea that the Cosmos is threatened with ruin if not annually re-created provides the inspiration for the chief festival of the California Karok, Hupa, and Yurok tribes. In the respective languages the ceremony is called 'repair' or 'fixing' of the world, and, in English, 'New Year'. Its purpose is to re-establish or strengthen the Earth for the following year or two years.\"\n\nTo some, the theory of the eternal return may suggest a view of traditional societies as stagnant and unimaginative, afraid to try anything new. However, Eliade argues that the eternal return does not lead to \"a total cultural immobility\". If it did, traditional societies would never have changed or evolved, and \"ethnology knows of no single people that has not changed in the course of time\". The mere fact that traditional societies have colonized new lands and invented new technologies proves that the eternal return hasn't suppressed their sense of initiative.\n\nFar from suppressing creativity, Eliade argues, the eternal return promotes it:\n\"There is no reason to hesitate before setting out on a sea voyage, because the mythical Hero has already made [such a voyage] in the fabulous Time. All that is needed is to follow his example. Similarly, there is no reason to fear settling an unknown, wild territory, because one knows what to do. One has merely to repeat the cosmogonic ritual, whereupon the unknown territory (= 'Chaos') is transformed into 'Cosmos'.\"\nAccording to Eliade, traditional man has endless creative possibilities because \"the possibilities for applying the mythical model are endless\".\n\nAccording to Eliade, this yearning to remain in the mythical age causes a \"terror of history\". Traditional man desires to escape the linear march of events, empty of any inherent value or sacrality. In Chapter 4 of \"The Myth of the Eternal Return\" (entitled \"The Terror of History\") and in the appendix to \"Myths, Dreams and Mysteries\", Eliade suggests that the abandonment of mythical thought and the full acceptance of linear, historical time, with its \"terror\", is one of the reasons for modern man's anxieties. Traditional societies escape this anxiety to an extent, as they refuse to completely acknowledge historical time. Eliade describes the difference between ancient and modern man's reactions to history, as well as modern man's impotence before the terror of history, as follows:\n\"In our day, when historical pressure no longer allows any escape, how can man tolerate the catastrophes and horrors of history—from collective deportations and massacres to atomic bombings—if beyond them he can glimpse no sign, no transhistorical meaning; if they are only the blind play of economic, social, or political forces, or, even worse, only the result of the 'liberties' that a minority takes and exercises directly on the stage of universal history?\n\n\"We know how, in the past, humanity has been able to endure the sufferings we have enumerated: they were regarded as a punishment inflicted by God, the syndrome of the decline of the 'age,' and so on. And it was possible to accept them precisely because they had a metahistorical meaning [...] Every war rehearsed the struggle between good and evil, every fresh social injustice was identified with the sufferings of the Saviour (or, for example, in the pre-Christian world, with the passion of a divine messenger or vegetation god), each new massacre repeated the glorious end of the martyrs. [...] By virtue of this view, tens of millions of men were able, for century after century, to endure great historical pressures without despairing, without committing suicide or falling into that spiritual aridity that always brings with it a relativistic or nihilistic view of history\"\n\nIn general, according to Eliade, traditional man sees the eternal return as something positive, even necessary. However, in some religions, such as Buddhism and certain forms of Hinduism, the traditional cyclic view of time becomes a source of terror:\n\nWhen the world becomes desacralized, the traditional cyclic view of time is too firmly entrenched to simply vanish. It survives, but in a profane form (such as the myth of reincarnation). Time is no longer static, as for the Karadjeri, for whom almost every action imitates a mythical model, keeping the world constantly in the mythical age. Nor is time cyclical but sacred, as for the ancient Mesopotamians, whose ritual calendar periodically returned the world to the mythical age. Rather, for some Dharmic religions, \"time was homologized to the cosmic illusion (\"māyā\")\".\n\nFor most of traditional humanity, linear history is profane, and sacredness lies in cyclic time. But, in Buddhism, Jainism, and some forms of Hinduism, even cyclic time has become profane. The Sacred cannot be found in the mythical age; it exists outside all ages. Thus, human fulfilment does not lie in returning to a sacred time, but in escaping from time altogether, in \"a transcendence of the cosmos.\" In these religions, the \"eternal return\" is less like the eternal return in most traditional societies (for whom time has an objective beginning, to which one should return) and more like the philosophical concept of eternal return—an endless cosmic cycle, with no beginning and, thus, no inherently sacred time.\n\nAlthough immensely influential in religious studies, the ideas behind Eliade's hypothesis of the eternal return are less well accepted in anthropology and sociology. According to the classicist G. S. Kirk, this is because Eliade overextends the application of his ideas: for example, Eliade claims that the modern myth of the \"noble savage\" results from the religious tendency to idealize the primordial, mythical age. Kirk claims that Eliade's relative unpopularity among anthropologists and sociologists also results from Eliade's assumption—essential for belief in the eternal return as Eliade formulates it—that primitive and archaic cultures had concepts such as \"being\" and \"real\", although they lacked words for them.\n\nKirk thinks Eliade's theory of eternal return applies to some cultures. Specifically, he agrees that Australian Aborigines used myths and rituals \"to bring the Dreamtime\" (the Australian mythical age) \"into the present with potent and fruitful results\". However, Kirk argues, Eliade takes this Australian phenomenon and applies it to other cultures uncritically. In short, Kirk sees Eliade's theory of eternal return as a universalization of the Australian Dreamtime concept.\n\nAs two counterexamples to the eternal return, Kirk cites Native American mythology and Greek mythology. The eternal return is nostalgic: by retelling and reenacting mythical events, Australian Aborigines aim to evoke and relive the Dreamtime. However, Kirk believes that Native American myths \"are not evocative or nostalgic in tone, but tend to be detailed and severely practical\". In many Native American mythologies, animals once acted like humans, during the mythical age; but they don't any longer: the division between animals and men is now a firm one, and according to Kirk, \"that in itself reduces the effectiveness of myth-telling as a reconstitution\" of the mythical age. As for Greek myths, many of them fall outside any sacred age of origins: this challenges Eliade's claim that almost all myths are about origins, and that people retell and reenact myths to return to the time of origins. (Note that the classicist Kirk uses a much broader definition of \"myth\" than many professional folklorists. According to the classical definition used by folklorists, many Greek stories conventionally called \"myths\" are not myths, precisely \"because\" they fall outside a sacred age of origins.)\n\nEven Wendy Doniger, a religious-studies scholar and Eliade's successor at the University of Chicago, claims (in the Introduction to Eliade's own \"Shamanism\") that the eternal return does not apply to all myths and rituals, although it may apply to many of them.\n\nIn T. A. Barron's \"The Lost Years of Merlin\" (the \"Sacred Time\" chapter), Merlin's mother says that \"stories\"—specifically, myths—are \"real enough to help [her] live. And work. And find the meaning hidden in every dream, every leaf, every drop of dew.\" She states that \"they dwell in sacred time, which flows in a circle. Not historical time, which runs in a line.\"\n\nJean Cocteau's screenplay for \"L'Éternel retour\" portrays the timeless nature of the myth of Tristan and Isolde.\n\nThe Heavy Metal band Therion released \"Eternal Return\" on their 2000 album \"Deggail.\" The song is thematically in line with Eliade's concept of the eternal return and would seem to be inspired by it.\n"}
{"id": "27156060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27156060", "title": "European Society for Analytic Philosophy", "text": "European Society for Analytic Philosophy\n\nThe European Society for Analytic Philosophy (ESAP) is a philosophical organization founded by Kevin Mulligan, Barry Smith, Peter Simons, Pierre Jacob, Marco Santambrogio, Andreas Kemmerling and Pascal Engel in 1991.\n\nThe founders of ESAP felt that after the long interruption due to World War II and the North American exile of many European philosophers, analytic philosophy was finally flourishing again in Europe. But even though more and more people were doing analytic philosophy in Continental Europe, they were often not even aware of each other’s existence. Both in their writings and in their personal interactions, European analytic philosophers were looking rather exclusively towards North America and Britain. But now, it seemed the time was ripe for bringing together analytic philosophers from all over Europe in one society furthering inter-European contacts, connections, and collaboration. Thus, ESAP was born. Today, analytic philosophy on the whole is flourishing more than ever in Europe. European analytic philosophers are also far more connected to one another and have far more of a voice to be reckoned with in the international publishing landscape. Especially in times of growing economic and political pressures on higher education and research, ESAP sees its mission in furthering and facilitating these connections, collaborations, and the conditions for research in analytic philosophy across Europe.\n\nESAP’s first president was Francois Recanati. He organized the first European Congress for Analytic Philosophy (ECAP) in 1993 in Aix-en-Provence. The ECAP has become the big get-together for analytic philosophers at any level of their careers in Europe. Organizing it every third year is one of the main tasks of the ESAP presidents. ESAP can by now look back on a long list of illustrious presidents who have devoted much time and labor to organizing a long list of vibrant events in many of the great cities of Europe: Peter Simons organized ECAP2 in Leeds (1996), Nenad Miscevic ECAP3 in Maribor (1999), Wlodek Rabinowicz ECAP4 in Lund (2002), João Branquino ECAP5 in Lisbon (2005), Jan Wolenski ECAP6 in Cracow (2008), Michele di Francesco ECAP7 in Milan (2011), Mircea Dumitru ECAP8 in Bucharest (2013). In 2017, ECAP9 will be held at LMU Munich, organized by ESAP’s current president, Stephan Hartmann. During the presidency of Peter Simons, the journal Dialectica became the official journal of ESAP. As early as in 1997, the first website of ESAP was set up by Božidar Kante. It was renewed by Carlo Penco in 1999 and maintained by him till 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "23107187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23107187", "title": "Genetic memory (biology)", "text": "Genetic memory (biology)\n\nIn biology, memory is present if the state of a biological system depends on its history in addition to present conditions. If this memory is recorded in the genetic material and stably inherited through cell division (mitosis or meiosis), it is genetic memory.\n\n\"Somatic memory\" is limited to the organism and not passed on to subsequent generations. However, its mechanism may involve mitotically stable genetic memory. The term applies for cellular memory, animals' memory, and plants' memory, as described in the following paragraphs.\n\nAll cells in multicellular organisms are derived from a pluripotent zygote and contain the same genetic material (with a few exceptions). However, they are capable of recording a history of their development within the organism leading to their specialized functions and limitations. Cells often employ epigenetic processes that affect DNA-protein interactions to record this \"cellular memory\" in the form of mitotically stable changes of the genetic material without a change in the DNA sequence itself. This is typically achieved via changes of the chromatin structure. Examples are methylation patterns of the DNA molecule itself and proteins involved in packaging DNA, such as histones (also referred to as \"histone code\").\n\nA case of somatic genetic memory is the \"immunological memory\" of the adaptive immune response in vertebrates. The immune system is capable of learning to recognize pathogens and keeping a memory of this learning process, which is the basis of the success of vaccinations. Antibody genes in B and T lymphocytes are assembled from separate gene segments, giving each lymphocyte a unique antibody coding sequence leading to the vast diversity of antibodies in the immune system. If stimulated by an antigen (e.g. following vaccination or an infection with a pathogen), these antibodies are further fine-tuned via hypermutation. Memory B cells capable of producing these antibodies form the basis for acquired immunological memory. Each individual therefore carries a unique genetic memory of its immune system's close encounters with pathogens. As a somatic memory, this is not passed on to the next generation.\n\nPlants that undergo vernalization (promotion of flowering by a prolonged exposure to cold temperatures) record a \"genetic memory of winter\" to gain the competence to flower. The process involves epigenetically recording the length of cold exposure through chromatin remodeling which leads to mitotically stable changes in gene expression (the \"winter code\"). This releases the inhibition of flowering initiation and allows the plants to bloom with the correct timing at the onset of spring. As a somatic memory, this state is not passed on to subsequent generations but has to be acquired by each individual plant. The process of vernalization was falsely assumed to be a stably inherited genetic memory passed on to subsequent generations by the Russian geneticist Trofim Lysenko. Lysenko's claims of genetic memory and efforts to obtain or fabricate results in proof of it had disastrous effects for Russian genetics in the early 20th century (also see: Lysenkoism).\n\nIn genetics, genomic imprinting or other patterns of inheritance that are not determined by DNA sequence alone can form an epigenetic memory that is passed on to subsequent generations through meiosis. In contrast, somatic genetic memories are passed on by mitosis and limited to the individual, but are not passed on to the offspring. Both processes include similar epigenetic mechanisms, e.g. involving histones and methylation patterns.\n\nIn microbes, genetic memory is present in the form of inversion of specific DNA sequences serving as a switch between alternative patterns of gene expression.\n\nIn population genetics and evolution, genetic memory represents the recorded history of adaptive changes in a species. Selection of organisms carrying genes coding for the best adapted proteins results in the evolution of species. An example for such a genetic memory is the innate immune response that represents a recording of the history of common microbial and viral pathogens encountered throughout the evolutionary history of the species. In contrast to the somatic memory of the adaptive immune response, the innate immune response is present at birth and does not require the immune system to learn to recognize antigens.\n\nIn the history of theories of evolution, the proposed genetic memory of an individual's experiences and environmental influences was a central part of Lamarckism to explain the inheritance of evolutionary changes.\n\nIn ethology, genetic memory refers the inheritance of instinct in animals.\n"}
{"id": "39396979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39396979", "title": "Gerris (software)", "text": "Gerris (software)\n\nGerris is computer software in the field of computational fluid dynamics (CFD). Gerris was released as free and open-source software, subject to the requirements of the GNU General Public License (GPL), version 2 or any later.\n\n\"Gerris\" solves the Navier–Stokes equations in 2 or 3 dimensions, allowing to model industrial fluids (aerodynamics, internal flows, etc.) or for instance, the mechanics of droplets, thanks to an accurate formulation of multiphase flows (including surface tension). Actually, the latter field of study is the reason why the software shares the same name as the insect genus.\n\n\"Gerris\" also provides features relevant to geophysical flows:\n\nFlow types #1 to #3 were studied using the shallow-water solver included in \"Gerris\", case #4 brings in the primitives equations and application #5 relies on the \"spectral\" equations for generation/propagation/dissipation of swell (and/or wind sea): for this purpose \"Gerris\" makes use of the source terms from WaveWatchIII.\n\nLastly, one can note that the (non-hydrostatic) Navier–Stokes solver was also used in the ocean to study:\n\nOn the contrary \"Gerris\" does not allow (in its current status) the modeling of compressible fluids (supersonic flows).\n\nSeveral methods can be used to provide a numerical solution to partial differential equations:\n\"Gerris\" belongs to the \"finite volumes\" family of CFD models.\n\nMost models use meshes which are either structured (Cartesian or curvilinear grids) or unstructured (triangular, tetrahedral, etc.). \"Gerris\" is quite different on this respect: it implements a deal between structured and unstructured meshes by using a tree data structure, allowing to refine locally (and dynamically) the (finite-volume) description of the pressure and velocity fields. Indeed the grid evolves in the course of a given simulation owing to criteria defined by the user (\"e.g.\" dynamic refinement of the grid in the vicinity of sharp gradients).\n\n\"Gerris\" mainly aims at DNS; the range of Reynolds available to the user thus depends on the computing power they can afford (although the auto-adaptive mesh allows one to focus the computing resources on the coherent structures). According to the \"Gerris\" FAQ the implementation of turbulence models will focus on the LES family rather than RANS approaches.\n\n\"Gerris\" is developed in C using the libraries Glib (object orientation, dynamic loading of modules, etc.) and GTS. The latter brings in facilities to perform geometric computations such as triangulation of solid surfaces and their intersection with fluid cells. Moreover \"Gerris\" is fully compliant with MPI parallelisation (including dynamic load balancing).\n\n\"Gerris\" does not need a meshing tool since the local (and time dependent) refinement of the grid is on charge of the solver itself. As far as solid surfaces are concerned, several input formats are recognized:\n\nAmong the various ways to output \"Gerris\" results, let us just mention here:\n\nCFD software, as any software, can be developed in various \"realms\":\nAs far as CFD is concerned, a thorough discussion of these software development paths can be found in the statement by Zaleski.\n\nIt is noteworthy that \"Gerris\" was distributed as free and open-source software right from the onset of the project.\n\nOther computing software are freely available in the field of fluid mechanics. Here are some of them (if the development was not initialized under a free license, the year when it moved to \"Open Source\" is mentioned in parenthesis):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1156687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1156687", "title": "Hakuin Ekaku", "text": "Hakuin Ekaku\n\nHakuin was born in 1686 in the small village of Hara, at the foot of Mount Fuji. His mother was a devout Nichiren Buddhist, and it is likely that her piety was a major influence on his decision to become a Buddhist monk. As a child, Hakuin attended a lecture by a Nichiren monk on the topic of the Eight Hot Hells. This deeply impressed the young Hakuin, and he developed a pressing fear of hell, seeking a way to escape it. He eventually came to the conclusion that it would be necessary to become a monk.\n\nAt the age of fifteen, he obtained consent from his parents to join the monastic life, and was ordained at the local Zen temple, Shōin-ji. When the head monk at Shōin-ji took ill, Hakuin was sent to a neighboring temple, Daishō-ji, where he served as a novice for three or four years, studying Buddhist texts. While at Daisho-ji, he read the Lotus Sutra, considered by the Nichiren sect to be the king of all Buddhist sutras, and found it disappointing, saying \"it consisted of nothing more than simple tales about cause and effect\".\n\nAt age eighteen, he left Daishō-ji for Zensō-ji, a temple close to Hara. At the age of nineteen, he came across in his studies the story of the Chinese Ch'an master Yantou Quanhuo, who had been brutally murdered by bandits. Hakuin despaired over this story, as it showed that even a great monk could not be saved from a bloody death in this life. How then could he, just a simple monk, hope to be saved from the tortures of hell in the next life? He gave up his goal of becoming an enlightened monk, and not wanting to return home in shame, traveled around studying literature and poetry.\n\nTravelling with twelve other monks, Hakuin made his way to Zuiun-ji, the residence of Baō Rōjin, a respected scholar but also a tough-minded teacher. While studying with the poet-monk Bao, he had an experience that put him back along the path of monasticism. He saw a number of books piled out in the temple courtyard, books from every school of Buddhism. Struck by the sight of all these volumes of literature, Hakuin prayed to the gods of the Dharma to help him choose a path. He then reached out and took a book; it was a collection of Zen stories from the Ming Dynasty. Inspired by this, he repented and dedicated himself to the practice of Zen.\n\nHe again went traveling for two years, settling down at the Eigen-ji temple when he was twenty-three. It was here that Hakuin had his first entrance into enlightenment when he was twenty-four. He locked himself away in a shrine in the temple for seven days, and eventually reached an intense awakening upon hearing the ringing of the temple bell. However, his master refused to acknowledge this enlightenment, and Hakuin left the temple.\nHakuin left again, to study for a mere eight months with Shōju Rōjin (Dokyu Etan, 1642–1721). Shoju was an intensely demanding teacher, who hurled insults and blows at Hakuin, in an attempt to free him from his limited understanding and self-centeredness. When asked why he had become a monk, Hakuin said that it was out of terror to fall into hell, to which Shōju replied \"You're a self-centered rascal, aren't you!\" Shōju assigned him a series of \"hard-to-pass\" koans. These led to three isolated moments of satori, but it was only eighteen years later that Hakuin really understood what Shōju meant with this.\n\nHakuin left Shoju after eight months of study, without receiving formal dharma transmission from Shoju Rojin, nor from any other teacher, but Hakuin considered himself to be an heir of Shoju Rojin. Today Hakuin is considered to have received dharma transmission from Shoju.\n\nHakuin realized that his attainment was incomplete. He was unable to sustain the tranquility of mind of the Zen hall in the midst of daily life. When he was twenty-six he read that \"all wise men and eminent priests who lack the Bodhi-mind fall into Hell\". This raised a \"great doubt\" (\"taigi\") in him, since he thought that the formal entrance into monkhood and the daily enactment of rituals was the bodhi-mind. Only with his final awakening, at age 42, did he fully realize what \"bodhi-mind\" means, namely working for the good of others.\n\nHakuin's early extreme exertions affected his health, and at one point in his young life he fell ill for almost two years, experiencing what would now probably be classified as a nervous breakdown by Western medicine. He called it Zen sickness, and sought the advice of a Taoist cave dwelling hermit named Hakuyu, who prescribed a visualization and breathing practice which eventually relieved his symptoms. From this point on, Hakuin put a great deal of importance on physical strength and health in his Zen practice, and studying Hakuin-style Zen required a great deal of stamina. Hakuin often spoke of strengthening the body by concentrating the spirit, and followed this advice himself. Well into his seventies, he claimed to have more physical strength than he had at age thirty, being able to sit in zazen meditation or chant sutras for an entire day without fatigue. The practices Hakuin learned from Hakuyu are still passed down within the Rinzai school.\n\nAfter another several years of travel, at age 31 Hakuin returned to Shoin-ji, the temple where he had been ordained. He was soon installed as head priest, a capacity in which he would serve for the next half-century. When he was installed as head priest of Shōin-ji in 1718, he had the title of \"Dai-ichiza\", \"First Monk\":\nIt was around this time that he adopted the name \"Hakuin\", which means \"concealed in white\", referring to the state of being hidden in the clouds and snow of mount Fuji.\n\nAlthough Hakuin had several \"satori experiences\", he did not feel free, and was unable to integrate his realization into his ordinary life. At age 41, he experienced a final and total awakening, while reading the Lotus Sutra, the sutra that he had disregarded as a young student. He realized that the Bodhi-mind means working for the good of every sentient being:\nHe wrote of this experience, saying \"suddenly I penetrated to the perfect, true, ultimate meaning of the Lotus\". This event marked a turning point in Hakuin's life. He dedicated the rest of his life to helping others achieve liberation.\n\nHe would spend the next forty years teaching at Shoin-ji, writing, and giving lectures. At first there were only a few monks there, but soon word spread, and Zen students began to come from all over the country to study with Hakuin. Eventually, an entire community of monks had built up in Hara and the surrounding areas, and Hakuin's students numbered in the hundreds. He eventually would certify over eighty disciples as successors.\n\nA well-known anecdote took place in this period:\nAt the age of 83, Hakuin died in Hara, the same village in which he was born and which he had transformed into a center of Zen teaching.\n\nHakuin saw \"deep compassion and commitment to help all sentient beings everywhere\" as an indispensable part of the Buddhist path to awakening. Hakuin emphasized the need for \"post-satori training\", purifying the mind of karmic tendencies and \nThe insight in the need of arousing bodhicitta formed Hakuin's final awakening:\nHakuin deeply believed that the most effective way for a student to achieve insight was through extensive meditation on a koan. Only with incessant investigation of his koan will a student be able to become one with the koan, and attain enlightenment. The psychological pressure and doubt that comes when one struggles with a koan is meant to create tension that leads to awakening. Hakuin called this the \"great doubt\", writing, \"At the bottom of great doubt lies great awakening. If you doubt fully, you will awaken fully\".\n\nHakuin used a fivefold classification system:<br>\n1. \"Hosshin\", dharma-body koans, are used to awaken the first insight into sunyata. They reveal the dharmakaya, or Fundamental. They introduce \"the undifferentiated and the unconditional\".<br>\n2. \"Kikan\", dynamic action koans, help to understand the phenomenal world as seen from the awakened point of view; Where \"hosshin\" koans represent \"tai\", substance, \"kikan\" koans represent \"yu\", function.<br>\n3. \"Gonsen\", explication of word koans, aid to the understanding of the recorded sayings of the old masters. They show how the Fundamental, though not depending on words, is nevertheless expressed in words, without getting stuck to words.<br>\n4. \"Hachi Nanto\", eight \"difficult to pass\" koans. There are various explanations for this category, one being that these koans cut off clinging to the previous attainment. They create another Great Doubt, which shatters the self attained through \"satori\". It is uncertain which are exactly those eight koans. Hori gives various sources, which altogether give ten \"hachi nanto\" koans.<br>\n5. \"Goi jujukin\" koans, the Five Ranks of Tozan and the Ten Grave Precepts.\n\nHakuin's emphasis on koan practice had a strong influence in the Japanese Rinzai-school. In the system developed by his followers, students are assigned koans by their teacher and then meditate on them. Once they have broken through, they must demonstrate their insight in private interview with the teacher. If the teacher feels the student has indeed attained a satisfactory insight into the koan, then another is assigned. Hakuin's main role in the development of this koan system was most likely the selection and creation of koans to be used. In this he didn't limit himself to the classic koan collections inherited from China; he himself originated one of the best-known koans, \"You know the sound of two hands clapping; tell me, what is the sound of one hand?\". Hakuin preferred this new koan to the most commonly assigned first koan from the Chinese tradition, the Mu koan. He believed his \"Sound of One Hand\" to be more effective in generating the great doubt, and remarked that \"its superiority to the former methods is like the difference between cloud and mud\".\n\nAsanga, one of the main proponents of Yogacara, introduced the idea of four ways of knowing: the perfection of action, observing knowing, universal knowing, and great mirror knowing. He relates these to the Eight Consciousnesses: \nIn time, these ways of knowing were also connected to the doctrine of the three bodies of the Buddha (Dharmakāya, Sambhogakāya and Nirmanakaya), together forming the \"Yuishiki doctrine\".\n\nHakuin related these four ways of knowing to four gates on the Buddhist path: the Gate of Inspiration, the Gate of Practice, the Gate of Awakening, and the Gate of Nirvana.\n\nOne of Hakuin's major concerns was the danger of what he called \"Do-nothing Zen\" teachers, who upon reaching some small experience of enlightenment devoted the rest of their life to, as he puts it, \"passing day after day in a state of seated sleep\". Quietist practices seeking simply to empty the mind, or teachers who taught that a tranquil \"emptiness\" was enlightenment, were Hakuin's constant targets. In this regard he was especially critical of followers of the maverick Zen master Bankei. He stressed a never-ending and severe training to deepen the insight of enlightenment and forge one's ability to manifest it in all activities. He urged his students to never be satisfied with shallow attainments, and truly believed that enlightenment was possible for anyone if they exerted themselves and approached their practice with real energy.\n\nAn extremely well known and popular Zen master during his later life, Hakuin was a firm believer in bringing the wisdom of Zen to all people. Thanks to his upbringing as a commoner and his many travels around the country, he was able to relate to the rural population, and served as a sort of spiritual father to the people in the areas surrounding Shoin-ji. In fact, he turned down offers to serve in the great monasteries in Kyoto, preferring to stay at Shoin-ji. Most of his instruction to the common people focused on living a morally virtuous life. Showing a surprising broad-mindedness, his ethical teachings drew on elements from Confucianism, ancient Japanese traditions, and traditional Buddhist teachings. He also never sought to stop the rural population from observing non-Zen traditions, despite the seeming intolerance for other schools' practices in his writings.\n\nIn addition to this, Hakuin was also a popular Zen lecturer, traveling all over the country, often to Kyoto, to teach and speak on Zen. He wrote frequently in the last fifteen years of his life, trying to record his lessons and experiences for posterity. Much of his writing was in the vernacular, and in popular forms of poetry that commoners would read.\n\nAn important part of Hakuin's practice of Zen was his painting and calligraphy. He seriously took up painting only late in his life, at almost age sixty, but is recognized as one of the greatest Japanese Zen painters. His paintings were meant to capture Zen values, serving as sorts of \"visual sermons\" that were extremely popular among the laypeople of the time, many of whom were illiterate. Today, paintings of Bodhi Dharma by Hakuin Ekaku are sought after and displayed in a handful of the world's leading museums.\n\nThrough Hakuin, all contemporary Japanese Rinzai-lineages are part of the Ōtōkan lineage, brought to Japan in 1267 by Nanpo Jomyo, who received dharma transmission in China in 1265.\n\nAll contemporary Rinzai-lineages stem from Inzan Ien (1751–1814) and Takuju Kosen (1760–1833), both students of Gasan Jito (1727–1797). Gasan is considered to be a dharma heir of Hakuin, though \"he did not belong to the close circle of disciples and was probably not even one of Hakuin's dharma heirs\".\n\nHakuin left a voluminous body of works, divided in Dharma Works (14 vols.) and Kanbun Works (4 vols.). The following are the best known and edited in English.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69844", "title": "Herbert Dingle", "text": "Herbert Dingle\n\nHerbert Dingle (2 August 1890 – 4 September 1978) was an English physicist and natural philosopher, who served as president of the Royal Astronomical Society from 1951 to 1953. He is best known for his opposition to Albert Einstein's special theory of relativity and the protracted controversy that this provoked.\n\nDingle was born in London, but spent his early years in Plymouth, where he was taken following the death of his father, and where he attended Plymouth Science, Art and Technical Schools. Due to lack of money, he left school at the age of 14 and found employment as a clerk, a job which he held for 11 years. At age 25 he won a scholarship to the Imperial College, London, from which he graduated in 1918. In that same year, Dingle married Alice Westacott who later gave birth to a son. As a Quaker, Dingle was exempt from military service during World War I. He took a position as a Demonstrator in the Physics Department, and devoted himself to the study of spectroscopy (following his mentor Alfred Fowler), especially its applications in astronomy. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1922.\n\nDingle was a member of the British government eclipse expeditions of 1927 (Colwyn Bay) and 1932 (Montreal), both of which failed to make any observations due to overcast skies. He spent most of 1932 at the California Institute of Technology as a Rockefeller Foundation Scholar. There he met the theoretical cosmologist R. C. Tolman, and studied relativistic cosmology.\n\nDingle became a professor of Natural Philosophy at Imperial College in 1938, and was a professor of History and Philosophy of Science at University College London from 1946 until his retirement in 1955. Thereafter he held the customary title of Professor Emeritus from that institution. He was one of the founders of the British Society for the History of Science, and served as President from 1955 to 1957. He founded what later became the British Society for the Philosophy of Science as well as its journal, the \"British Journal for The Philosophy of Science\".\n\nDingle was the author of \"Modern Astrophysics\" (1924) and \"Practical Applications of Spectrum Analysis\" (1950). He also wrote the essay \"Relativity for All\" (1922) and the monograph \"The Special Theory of Relativity\" (1940). A collection of Dingle's lectures on the history and philosophy of science was published in 1954. He also took an interest in English literature, and published \"Science and Literary Criticism\" in 1949, and \"The Mind of Emily Brontë\" in 1974.\n\nDingle participated in two highly public and polemical disputes. The first took place during the 1930s, triggered by Dingle's criticism of E. A. Milne's cosmological model and the associated theoretical methodology, which Dingle considered overly speculative and not based on empirical data. A. S. Eddington was another target of Dingle's critique, and the ensuing debate eventually involved nearly every prominent astrophysicist and cosmologist in Britain. Dingle characterized his opponents as \"traitors\" to the scientific method, and called them \"the modern Aristotelians\" because he believed their theorizing was based on rationalism rather than empiricism. Some other scientists, notably Willem de Sitter, while not endorsing Dingle's more extreme rhetoric, nevertheless agreed with Dingle that the cosmological models of Milne, Eddington, and others were overly speculative. However, most modern cosmologists subsequently accepted the validity of the hypothetico-deductive method of Milne.\n\nThe second dispute began in the late 1950s, following Dingle's retirement and centered on the theory of special relativity.\n\nInitially Dingle argued that, contrary to the usual understanding of the famous twin paradox, special relativity did not predict unequal aging of twins, one of whom makes a high-speed voyage and returns to Earth, but he then came to realize and acknowledge that his understanding had been mistaken. He then began to argue that special relativity was empirically wrong in its predictions, although experimental evidence showed he was mistaken about this. Ultimately Dingle re-focused his criticism to claim that special relativity was logically inconsistent: \"The theory [special relativity] unavoidably requires that A works more slowly than B and B more slowly than A --which it requires no super-intelligence to see is impossible.\" Hence he asserted that the well-known reciprocity of the Lorentz transformation is self-evidently impossible. As Whitrow explained in his obituary for Dingle, this is not correct, as it rests on Dingle's mistaken assumption that the conflicting ratios of event times used by Dingle are invariants.\n\nDingle carried on a highly public and contentious campaign to get this conclusion accepted by the scientific community, mostly through letters to the editors of various scientific periodicals, including \"Nature\". Dozens of scientists responded with answers to Dingle's claims, explaining why the reciprocity of the Lorentz transformation does not entail any logical inconsistency, but Dingle rejected all the explanations. This culminated in his 1972 book, \"Science at the Crossroads\" in which Dingle stated that \"a proof that Einstein's special theory of relativity is false has been advanced; and ignored, evaded, suppressed and, indeed, treated in every possible way except that of answering it, by the whole scientific world.\" He also warned: \"Since this theory is basic to practically all physical experiments, the consequences if it is false, modern atomic experiments being what they are, may be immeasurably calamitous.\" \nThe consensus in the physics community is that Dingle's objections to the logical consistency of special relativity were unfounded.\n\n"}
{"id": "6185620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6185620", "title": "Horia-Roman Patapievici", "text": "Horia-Roman Patapievici\n\nHoria-Roman Patapievici (; born March 18, 1957) is a Romanian physicist and essayist who served as the head of the Romanian Cultural Institute from 2005 until August 2012. Between 2000 and 2005, he was a member of the National Council for the Study of the Securitate Archives, supporting more openness regarding the files of the Securitate.\n\nDenis Patapievici, his father, moved from Cernăuţi (now in Ukraine) to Occupied Poland in 1940, after the Soviet Union occupied and took away Bukovina from the Kingdom of Romania. Horia Roman Patapievici was born in Bucharest and graduated from the University of Bucharest's Faculty of Physics in 1981, where he specialized in the study of lasers. Between 1986 and 1994, he worked as a scientific researcher at the Academy Institute, during which time he also worked as a university assistant at the Polytechnic University of Bucharest between 1990 and 1994.\n\nPatapievici then served as the director of Center for German studies at the University of Bucharest from 1994 until 1996, after which he served until 2000 as the programme director of Group for Social Dialogue (GDS). He is also a member of the Writers' Union of Romania, one of the founders of the Research Group for Essentials in European Modernity, and an honorary member of the Ludwig von Mises Institute.\n\nHis debut as an essayist was in 1992, in the \"Contrapunct\" journal, and since then he had various contributions in the Revista 22, LA&I, Dilema (now Dilema Veche), Orizont, Vatra, Secolul 20, ID. He wrote editorials in 22 (1993–2003), LA&I (2003–2004), Dilema Veche (2004–2005), ID (since 2005) and Evenimentul Zilei (since 2006).\n\nPatapievici was also a TV producer for two shows for TVR Cultural: \"Idei în libertate\" (2002) and \"Înapoi la argument\" (2005).\n\nSince 2004, Patapievici is the director of a cultural journal, \"Idei în dialog\" (Ideas in dialogue), published by the Academia Caţavencu Trust.\n\nPatapievici married in 1981 and has one son, born in 1989.\n\nIn December 1999, Patapievici was nominated by the National Peasants' Party to be a member of the National Council for the Study of the Securitate Archives, an institution which has the purpose to study the files of the Securitate, the secret service of the communist-era Romania.\n\nPatapievici was initially rejected by the Parliamentary committee by a vote of eight to six. While Patapievici met the legal criteria for the position, his candidacy was opposed by representative members of the other political parties. Democratic Party Senator Casimir Ionesco, whose post-Revolution actions had been criticized earlier in one of Patapievici's books, took a leading role in opposing Patapievici's candidacy, claiming that his application would bring a defiant and revanchist attitude to the committee.\n\nFollowing the demand of the National Peasants' Party, the issue of Patapievici's candidacy was reopened in late January 2000, the Parliamentary committee approving his candidacy, despite a dissent of the Greater Romania Party representative, Dumitru Bălăeţ, who accused Patapievici of lack of patriotism based on some of his previous writings in his book \"Politics\".\n\nThe council met some difficuties in obtaining some documents from the SRI archive, and because of this, Patapievici, together with Mircea Dinescu and Andrei Pleşu began boycotting the council in October 2001, while demanding full access in the SRI's archives.\n\nThe activity of the council, which investigated the former collaborators of the Securitate, drew criticism from the far-right Greater Romania Party. Daniela Buruiană claimed that Patapievici, Dinescu and Pleşu help foreign secret services which want to discredit the Romanian state institutions, prompting them to announce that they'll sue her.\n\nIn September 2002, the council decided to publish a list of the former Securitate officers who were involved in the political police. The Romanian intelligence agency, SRI, initially opposed this, but, following a meeting between the council and SRI, they reached an agreement. Nevertheless, Patapievici argued that the council is blocked because of political reasons.\n\nThe following month, Patapievici, together with Pleşu and Dinescu attempted to change the head of the council, Gheorghe Onişoru, who, they argued, sided with the SRI in attempting to open up more of Securitate's files, but they failed in gathering the six needed votes among the eleven council members.\n\nThe activity of the council continued slowly, publishing the first list of 33 officers of Securitate in October 2003. There were a few attempts of ousting the Patapievici, Pleşu and Dinescu trio, especially from the Social-Democrats and Greater Romania Party, but eventually they gave in to public pressure and canceled them.\n\nBefore the 2004 Romanian presidential election, the council decided that Corneliu Vadim Tudor was not a Securitate informer, with a minority dissenting view (Patapievici, Pleşu, Dinescu and Secasiu). Pleşu and Dinescu resigned in protest and Patapievici announced he'd do the same thing after the elections.\n\nIn January 2005, Traian Băsescu, the newly elected President of Romania, named Patapievici as the new head of the Romanian Cultural Institute (ICR), replacing a 15-year rule of Augustin Buzura. While by statute this position is appointed directly by the Romanian president, who is honorary president of the ICR, some political opponents criticized the method of appointment, arguing that the process is conducted without competition or a debate.\n\nPatapievici began a reform inside the Institute with a new vision under which the Institute would focus on facilitating cultural exchanges and cultural mediation rather than producing culture. As part of his reform efforts, the Institute decided to suspend seven of nine magazines previously published under Patapievici's predecessor on the grounds that the taxpayer-funded magazines were financially unsustainable in the face of increasing monthly losses, declining circulation and rising publication costs.\n\nIn June 2012 the newly elected government under Prime Minister Victor Ponta, member of the Social Democratic Party (PSD) and its leader since 2010, moved to transfer control of the ICR and its resources from the Office of the Romanian President to that of the Romanian Senate.\n\nOn August 1, 2012, Patapievici, the two ICR vice presidents, and the ICR managing team resigned to protest the transfer of power, the announced budget cuts, and what they considered the politicization of Romanian culture.\n\nPatapievici is a supporter of libertarian economic policies, arguing that it's \"the most efficient cure against the laziness of thought\". In 2006, during a debate over the display of Orthodox Christian icons in classrooms, he defended such display, labeling the people who opposed it as \"human rights fanatics\".\n\nPatapievici has also occasionally come under criticism from political detractors and from opponents of President Băsescu, with whom he has long had a good relationship. An example of this was in 2007 when Patapievici defended Băsescu when the parliament had begun an impeachment procedure against the President. Patavievici blamed the disagreements between the presidents and prime-ministers on the Romanian Constitution. Critics of Băsescu labeled Patapievici and two other supporters at the time, Gabriel Liiceanu, and Vladimir Tismăneanu, as \"Băsescu's intellectuals\", a label that the three dismissed.\n\nPatapievici was again criticized by some when he publicly defended an alleged action by Băsescu during the 2009 Romanian presidential campaign. On the day of the election, Catalan newspaper \"La Vanguardia\" published an interview in which Patapievici was asked about a video recording that had been repeatedly broadcast in Romanian media and which allegedly depicted Băsescu hitting a 10-year-old boy. Patapievici said that he thought Băsescu only pushed the child, and that Băsescu's error was that he did not deny it immediately. Patapievici then compared the incident with the Lewinsky scandal, and, to illustrate his view that Băsescu was a good man, added that he had heard that the president Traian Băsescu had refused to use a tape offered to his campaign that reputedly depicted political opponent Mircea Geoană receiving sexual favors.\n\nWhile the Spanish interviewer later clarified that Patapievici did not make any actual claim about the existence of the reputed tape or its authenticity, the Spanish language depiction of the Patapievici interview was covered in the Romanian press and met with a strong reaction from Mircea Geoană, who called it a \"sinister lie\".\n\nBoth Traian Băsescu's spokesman, Sever Voinescu, and Valeriu Turcan, the spokesman of the Romanian presidency, denied that either Băsescu or the campaign team was ever aware of any such video Patapievici himself denied ever making the accusation and claimed that his words were intentionally mischaracterized and taken out of context by his accusers, clarifying in a statement that he \"only mentioned the tape to emphasize the difference in attitude between Băsescu and his opponents.\" To support his denial, he cited an e-mail sent in English by the Spanish interviewer, Félix Flores: \"Mr. Patapievici did not mentioned [sic] the existence of any tape about Mr. Geoana: he just said that Mr. Basescu was offered such a thing and he rejected it. He was not talking about videos -true or fake or may not exist- or against anybody but about Mr. Basescu's moral attitude.\"\n\n\nOTHER\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26776184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26776184", "title": "Human subject research legislation in the United States", "text": "Human subject research legislation in the United States\n\nHuman subject research legislation in the United States can be traced to the early 20th century. Human subject research in the United States was mostly unregulated until the 20th century, as it was throughout the world, until the establishment of various governmental and professional regulations and codes of ethics. Notable – and in some cases, notorious – human subject experiments performed in the US include the Tuskegee syphilis experiment, human radiation experiments, the Milgram obedience experiment and Stanford prison experiments and Project MKULTRA. With growing public awareness of such experimentation, and the evolution of professional ethical standards, such research became regulated by various legislation, most notably, those that introduced and then empowered the institutional review boards.\n\nAside from the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 and the Harrison Act of 1914 banning the sale of some narcotic drugs, there was no federal regulatory control ensuring the safety of new drugs. Thus the early calls for regulation of human experimentation concerned medicine, and in particular, testing of new pharmaceutical drugs and their release on the market.\n\nIn 1937, a drug known as \"Elixir Sulfanilamide\" was released without any clinical trials. Reports in the press about potentially lethal side effects led to a public outcry. Investigation by the American Medical Association showed that a poisonous compound, diethylene glycol, was present in the drug. The AMA concluded that the drug caused more than a hundred deaths – yet the contemporary law did not require the company that released it to test it (the existing laws required only that a drug be clearly labeled, no false claims be made about it, and that it was not adulterated). A new legislation was proposed by the Secretary of Agriculture to address the issue but was weakened after opposition from business interests. It was finally included in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War II, and what became recognized as deeply unethical human experimentation carried out by the Nazis, the Nuremberg Code – ethical principles governing international human experimentation – were founded. The code highlighted 3 key elements (voluntary informed consent, favorable risk/benefit analysis, and right to withdraw without repercussions) which later became the foundation for further human research regulations. However, neither the Nuremberg Code nor the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 prevented the \"thalidomide tragedy\" of the early 1960s. Thalidomide was introduced in 1958, and there were reports of it being unsafe for certain groups, such as pregnant women and young children; however, although the Food and Drug Administration did not approve it for market, the existing regulations allowed relatively unrestricted testing of the drug. This led to the abuse of approved drug testing as the means to further a promotional marketing strategy. This was addressed by the Drug Amendments legislation of 1962, which introduced a requirement for a series of animal tests before proceeding with human experimentation, and a total of three phases of human clinical trials before a drug can be approved for the market. The inadequacy of the 1938 and 1962 acts was exposed by revelations in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nAnother milestone came with Henry K. Beecher's 1966 study as published in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\". His study became instrumental in the implementation of federal rules on human experimentation and informed consent. Beecher's study listed over 20 cases of mainstream research where subjects were subject to experimentation without being fully informed of their status as research subjects, and without knowledge of the risks of such participation in the research. Some of the research subjects died or were permanently crippled as a result of that research. One of the cases analyzed was the Willowbrook State School Case, in which mentally defective children were deliberately infected with hepatitis, under disguise of a vaccination program.\n\nBeecher's findings were not alone. Evidence emerged that soon after the introduction of nuclear weapons, soldiers and civilians were subjected to potentially dangerous levels of radiation – without consent – to test its health effects (see Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments and human radiation experiments in the United States).\n\nWhile most major controversies about unethical research were focused on biomedical sciences, there were also controversies involving behavioral, psychological, and sociological experiments such as: the Milgram obedience experiment, Stanford prison experiment, Tearoom Trade study, and others. There were also ethical issues related to the CIA's Project MKULTRA.\n\nThe Tuskegee syphilis experiment is probably the most infamous case of unethical medical experimentation in the United States. Starting in 1932, investigators recruited 399 impoverished African-American sharecroppers with syphilis for research related to the natural progression of the untreated disease, in hopes of justifying treatment programs for blacks. By 1947, penicillin had become the standard treatment for syphilis, but the Tuskegee scientists decided to withhold penicillin (and information about it) from the patients. The study continued under numerous supervisors until 1972, when a leak to the press resulted in its termination. Victims included a number of men who died of syphilis, their wives who contracted the disease, and some children who were born with syphilis. Even when the results were made public, the initial reaction of the medical scientific community was to exonerate the study and criticize the popular press for interfering with the research.\n\nIn 1976, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Office for Protection of Research Subjects (OPRR) was created, and issued its \"Policies for the Protection of Human Subjects\" which recommended establishing independent review bodies, later called institutional review boards.\n\nIn 1969, Kentucky Court of Appeals Judge Samuel Steinfeld dissented in \"Strunk v. Strunk, 445 S.W.2d 145\", and made the first judicial suggestion that the Nuremberg Code should apply to American jurisprudence.\n\nBy the early 1970s, cases like the Willowbrook State School and the Tuskegee syphilis experiments were being raised in the U. S. Senate. As controversy over human experiments continued, the public opinion criticized research where the science seemed to be valued over the good of the subjects.\n\nIn 1974, Congress passed the National Research Act which established the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research (CPHS) and mandated that the Public Health Service come up with regulations that would protect the rights of human research subjects. The Commission work from 1974-1978 resulted in 17 reports and appendices, of which the most important were the Institutional Review Board Report and the Belmont Report (\"Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the Protection of Human Subjects of Research\"). The IRB Report endorsed the establishment and functioning of the Institutional Review Board institution, and the Belmont Report, the Commission's last report, identified \"basic ethical principles\" applicable to human subject experimentation that became modern guidelines for ethical medical research: \"respect for persons\", \"beneficence\" and \"justice\".\n\nIn 1975, the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (DHEW) created regulation which included the recommendations laid out in the NIH's 1966 \"Policies for the Protection of Human Subjects\". Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations, known as \"The Common Rule,\" requires that institutional review boards (IRBs) oversee experiments using human subjects.\n\nThe National Commission was superseded by the Ethical Advisory Board (EAB), which in turn was superseded in 1980 by the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Biomedical and Behavioral Research (PCEMR). EAB focused on the issues of in vitro fertilization and prohibited the creation of fetuses for research purposes; and PCEMR issues recommendation on subjects such as brain death, access to health services, withdrawal of life-support systems, and testing in regards to genetic disease.\n\nIn 1980 the FDA made prisoners ineligible to be subjects of new drug testing in clinical trials (21 CFR 50.44).\n\nOn January 15, 1994, President Bill Clinton formed the Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments (ACHRE). This committee was created to investigate and report the use of human beings as test subjects in experiments involving the effects of ionizing radiation in federally funded research. The committee attempted to determine the causes of the experiments, and reasons why the proper oversight did not exist, and made several recommendations to help prevent future occurrences of similar events. In 1995 (or 1996 – sources vary) a National Bioethics Advisory Commission was established, opining on issues such as cloning of humans, and research involving mentally disabled. In 2001, The President's Council on Bioethics was founded to consider bioethics issues, such as stem cell research. Committee review of research has since then become a standard part of American attitude to ethical issues in science. In 2009, the Obama administration replaced this body with the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues.\n\nSome provisions of medical research regulation allow certain research project to proceed without IRB review. For example, in the United States, research that uses electronic health record of deceased patients does not require IRB review.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17242876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17242876", "title": "Isagoge", "text": "Isagoge\n\nThe Isagoge (, \"Eisagōgḗ\") or \"Introduction\" to Aristotle's \"Categories\", written by Porphyry in Greek and translated into Latin by Boethius, was the standard textbook on logic for at least a millennium after his death. It was composed by Porphyry in Sicily during the years 268–270, and sent to Chrysaorium, according to all the ancient commentators Ammonius, Elias, and David. The work includes the highly influential hierarchical classification of genera and species from substance in general down to individuals, known as the Tree of Porphyry, and an introduction which mentions the problem of universals.\n\nBoethius' translation of the work, in Latin, became a standard medieval textbook in European schools and universities, setting the stage for medieval philosophical-theological developments of logic and the problem of universals. Many writers, such as Boethius himself, Averroes, Abelard, Scotus, wrote commentaries on the book. Other writers such as William of Ockham incorporated them into their textbooks on logic.\n\nThe earliest Latin translation, which is now no longer extant, was made by Marius Victorinus in the fourth century. Boethius heavily relied upon it in his own translation. The earliest known Syriac translation was made in the seventh century by Athanasius of Balad. An early Armenian translation of the work also exists.\n\nThe \"Introduction\" was translated into Arabic by Ibn al-Muqaffa‘ from a Syriac version. With the Arabicized name \"Isāghūjī\" it long remained the standard introductory logic text in the Muslim world and influenced the study of theology, philosophy, grammar, and jurisprudence. Besides the adaptations and epitomes of this work, many independent works on logic by Muslim philosophers have been entitled \"Isāghūjī\". Porphyry's discussion of \"accident\" sparked a long-running debate on the application of \"accident\" and \"essence\".\n\nThe predicables (Lat. \"praedicabilis\", that which may be stated or affirmed, sometimes called \"quinque voces\" or \"five words\") is, in scholastic logic, a term applied to a classification of the possible relations in which a predicate may stand to its subject. The list given by the schoolmen and generally adopted by modern logicians is based on the original fivefold classification given by Aristotle (Topics, a iv. 101 b 17–25): definition (\"horos\"), genus (\"genos\"), differentia (\"diaphora\"), property (\"idion\"), accident (\"sumbebekos\").\n\nThe scholastic classification, obtained from Boëthius's version of the \"Isagoge\", modified Aristotle's by substituting species (\"eidos\") for definition (\"horos\").\n\nIn medieval textbooks, the all-important \"Arbor porphyriana\" (\"Porphyrian Tree\") illustrates his logical classification of substance. To this day, taxonomy benefits from concepts in Porphyry's Tree, in classifying living organisms: see cladistics.\n\nThe work is celebrated for prompting the medieval debate over the status of universals. Porphyry writes\n\nThough he did not mention the problem further, his formulation constitutes the most influential part of his work, since it was these questions that formed the basis of medieval debates about the status of universals. Do universals exist in the mind, or in reality? If in reality, are they physical things, or not? If physical, do they have a separate existence from physical bodies, or are they part of them?\n\n"}
{"id": "11699202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11699202", "title": "James Tully (philosopher)", "text": "James Tully (philosopher)\n\nJames Hamilton Tully (; born 1946) is the Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Political Science, Law, Indigenous Governance and Philosophy at the University of Victoria, Canada. Tully is also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and Emeritus Fellow of the Trudeau Foundation.\n\nIn May 2014, he was awarded the University of Victoria’s David H. Turpin Award for Career Achievement in Research. In 2010, he was awarded the prestigious Killam prize and the Thousand Waves Peacemaker Award. in recognition of his distinguished career and exceptional contributions to Canadian scholarship and public life. Also in 2010, he was awarded the C.B. Macpherson Prize by the Canadian Political Science Association for the \"best book in political theory written in English or French\" in Canada 2008-10 for his 2008 two-volume \"Public Philosophy in a New Key.\" He completed his doctorate at the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom and now teaches at the University of Victoria.\n\nHis research and teaching comprise a public philosophy that is grounded in place (Canada) yet reaches out to the world of civic engagement with the problems of our time. He does this in ways that strive to contribute to dialogue between academics and citizens. For example, his research areas include the Canadian experience of coping with the deep diversity of multicultural and multinational citizenship; relationships between indigenous and non-indigenous people; and the emergence of citizenship of the living earth as the ground of sustainable futures.\n\nJames Tully is one of the four general editors of the Cambridge University Press \" Ideas in Context\" Series. He first gained his reputation for his scholarship on the political philosophy of John Locke, and has written on constitutionalism, diversity, indigenous politics, recognition theory, multiculturalism, and the problem of imperialism. He was special advisor to the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples (1991–1995). Over his career, Tully has held positions at Cambridge University, Oxford University, McGill University, University of Toronto, and the University of Victoria.\n\nAfter completing his PhD at Cambridge University and his undergraduate degree at the University of British Columbia, he taught in the departments of Philosophy and Political Science at McGill University 1977-1996. He was Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at the University of Victoria 1996-2001. In 2001-2003 he was the inaugural Henry N.R. Jackman Distinguished Professor in Philosophical Studies at the University of Toronto in the departments of Philosophy and Political Science and the Faculty of Law. Tully claims to have enjoyed his time at the University of Toronto, but preferred the open atmosphere and climate in British Columbia. He eventually returned to the University of Victoria in 2003, where he is now the Distinguished Professor of Political Science, Law, Indigenous Governance and Philosophy. Tully was influential in shaping the University of Victoria's Political Science department, which is renowned for its strong political theory program.\n\nTully’s approach to the study and teaching of politics is a form of historical and critical reflection on problems of political practice in the present. It is an attempt to renew and transform the tradition of public philosophy so it can effectively address the pressing political problems of our age in a genuinely democratic way. It does this by means of a dual dialogue of reciprocal and mutual learning among equals: between academics in different disciplines addressing the same problems (multidisciplinary); and between academics and citizens addressing the problems and struggles on the ground by their own ways of knowing and doing (democratic). The aim is to throw critical light on contemporary political problems by means of studies that free us to some extent from hegemonic ways of thinking and acting politically, enabling us to test their limits and to see and consider the concrete possibilities of thinking and acting differently.\n\nTully’s 1995, \"Strange Multiplicity: Constitutionalism in an Age of Diversity\" engages with the famous indigenous sculpture \"Spirit of Haida Gwaii\" by Bill Reid as a metaphor for the kind of democratic constitutionalism that can help reconcile the competing claims of multicultural and multinational societies. The ‘strange multiplicity’ of cultural diversity is embodied in the varied and assorted canoe passengers \"squabbling and vying for recognition and position.\" There is no universal constitutional order imposed from above nor a single category of citizenship, because identities and relations change over time. This view rejects the \"mythic unity of the community\" imagined \"in liberal and nationalist constitutionalism.\"\n\nTully argues that the concept of ‘culture’ is more flexible and constructive for thinking about the rival claims of political groups than the more rigid and exclusive concept ‘nation.’ Culture more readily suggests that group identities are plural, overlapping, and changing over time in their encounters with others. Unlike nationalism, the politics of cultural recognition does not assume that every group aspires to its own culturally homogenous ‘nation-state.’ Rather, cultures must find ways to share spaces and co-exist. While they may always strive to determine their own identities and relations, pursuant to \"self rule, the oldest political good in the world,\" the solution is not to crack down on diversity or to impose one cultural model over others.\n\nThe solution is to broaden opportunities for participation and contestation, to further democratize institutions and relations of governance, including foundational constitutions. According to Tully, \"a constitution should not be seen as a fixed set of rules but, rather, as an imperfect form of accommodation of the diverse members of a political association that is always open to negotiation by the members of the association.\" No aspect of relations should be off limits to deliberation if called into question by participants affected by those relations. This is what Tully means by \"democratic constitutionalism\" as opposed to more conventional \"constitutional democracy.\" From this perspective, Tully can claim that \"[t]he constitution is thus one area of modern politics that has not been democratised over the last three hundred years.\"\n\nFor Tully, \"The Spirit of Haida Gwaii\" prefigures a more democratic, pluralistic, and just society. It evokes a simpler, more elegant, and sustainable ethos of gift-reciprocity in all our relationships, human and non-human. Getting along may be messy and imperfect business, but the passengers continue to row cooperatively, and the canoe of society glides onward.\n\nIn \"Public Philosophy in a New Key, Volume I: Democracy and Civic Freedom\", and \"Volume II: Imperialism and Civic Freedom\" (2008), Tully expands his approach \"to a broader range of contemporary struggles: over diverse forms of recognition, social justice, the environment and imperialism.\" The two volumes mark a shift toward a principal emphasis on freedom. \"The primary question,\" Tully writes, \"is thus not recognition, identity or difference, but freedom; the freedom of the members of an open society to change the constitutional rules of mutual recognition and association from time to time as their identities change.\" This is \"civic freedom,\" referring to the capacity people have to participate in the constitution of their own governance relations.\n\nTo the extent that governance relations restrict this basic freedom, \"they constitute a structure of domination, the members are not self-determining, and the society is unfree.\" Conditions of oppression, however, do not rule out or discount practices of civic freedom. Tully’s public philosophy is not concerned with ideal conditions or hoped-for peaceful futures. Rather, civic freedom exists in conduct and in relations in the \"here and now,\" not least under conditions of oppression and conflict. Against violence and tyranny, Tully argues, practices of civic freedom make the best \"strategies of confrontation,\" because they generate conditions for transformative change. The concluding chapter of \"Public Philosophy in a New Key, Vol. II\" examines \"the democratic means to challenge and transform imperial relationships [and] brings together the three themes of the two volumes: public philosophy, practices of civic freedom and the countless ways they work together to negotiate and transform oppressive relationships.\"\n\nTully’s civics-based approach offers a new way of thinking about a diverse array of contemporary and historical traditions of democratic struggle, including environmental movements and indigenous struggle. Tully summarizes the approach and its potential:\n\n‘Practices of civic freedom’ comprise the vast repertoire of ways of citizens acting together on the field of governance relationships and against the oppressive and unjust dimensions of them. These range from ways of ‘acting otherwise’ within the space of governance relationships to contesting, negotiating, confronting and seeking to transform them. The general aim of these diverse civic activities is to bring oppressive and unjust governance relationships under the on-going shared authority of the citizenry subject to them; namely, to civicise and democratize them from below.\n\nFrom this perspective, these kinds of powerful, civic movements are not deviations or anomalies to be corrected or appeased through discipline or cooptation, but exemplars of civic freedom. They disclose their positions or grievances not only through words and stated goals but through the very world they bring into being by their actions: civic \"activists \"have to be the change\" that they wish to bring about.\" \"Underlying this way of democratization,\" Tully argues, \"is the Gandhian premise that democracy and peace can be brought about only by democratic and peaceful means.\" However, this is no utopian vision, according to Tully, referring to the \"thousands\" and \"millions of examples of civic\" practices everyday that make another world not only possible but \"\"actual\".\"\n\nTo clarify and reinforce this approach, Tully argues for an expanded conception of the term \"citizenship\" to encompass all forms of governance-related conduct, with an emphasis on \"negotiated practices.\" \"Civic\" or \"global\" citizenship refers to the myriad of relations and practices (global and local) people find themselves embedded and participating in. The term \"global\" draws attention to the diverse and overlapping character of governance — and hence citizen — relations. Modes of civic and global citizenship \"are the means by which cooperative practices of self-government can be brought into being and the means by which unjust practices of governance can be challenged, reformed and transformed by those who suffer under them.\"\n\nTully carefully distinguishes his expanded notion of citizenship (diverse, cooperative, civic, global) from the narrower but more conventional notion of citizenship, which he calls \"civil citizenship\" (modern, institutional, and international). Where \"civic\" denotes practice and pluralism, \"civil\" citizenship singularly refers to \"a status given by the institutions of the modern constitutional state in international law.\" This kind of (civil) citizenship is associated with the dominant tradition of liberalism, in which the state ensures a free market, a set of negative liberties (especially protections against state infringements into the private sphere), and a narrow range of participation through institutions of free speech and representative government. Tully argues that this dominant module of civil citizenship is neither universal nor inevitable; rather, it is \"one singular, historical form of citizenship among others.\" More problematically, the civil tradition often plays handmaiden to empire, insofar as imperial powers operate under international banners of ‘progress’ and ‘liberalism’:\nthe dominant forms of representative democracy, self-determination and democratisation promoted through international law are not alternatives to imperialism, but, rather, the means through which informal imperialism operates against the wishes of the majority of the population of the post-colonial world.\n\nBy contextualizing and de-centering, or \"provincializing,\" modern categories of \"allegedly universal\" citizenship, Tully aims to broaden and democratize the field of citizenship and citizen practices. \"This [civic and global] mode of citizenship,\" he argues, \"has the capacity to overcome the imperialism of the present age and bring a democratic world into being.\"\n\nMore recently, Tully has emphasized the importance of \"coordinating\" the different ways that civil (deliberative) and civic (cooperative) citizens address the same political problems, such as social and ecological justice.\n\nIn the closing pages of \"Public Philosophy in a New Key, Vol. II\", Tully explicitly links his work to the study and practice of nonviolence. He identifies four main components of Mahatma Gandhi’s life practice of Satyagraha that offer a model for approaching civic freedom and global citizenship practices: 1) noncooperation with unjust institutions, 2) a commitment to nonviolent means of resistance, 3) a focus on local, community-based modes of self-reliance and self-governance, and 4), as a precursor to these three components, \"personal practices of self-awareness and self-formation.\" According to Tully, these cornerstones of nonviolent power \"are daily practices of becoming an exemplary citizen.\"\n\nTully has since focused increasingly on the study and practice nonviolent ethics and nonviolent resistance. For example, he writes,\n\nthe alternative of a politics of reasonable nonviolent cooperation and agonistics (Satyagraha) was discovered in the twentieth century by William James, Gandhi, Abdul Gaffar Khan, Einstein, Ashley Montagu, Bertrand Russell, Martin Luther King Junior, Thomas Merton, Thich Nhat Hanh, Gene Sharp, Petra Kelly, Johan Galtung and Barbara Deming. They argued that the antagonistic premise of western theories of reasonable violence is false. Nonviolent practices of cooperation, disputation and dispute resolution are more basic and prevalent than violent antagonism. This is a central feature of civic freedom.\n\nA major overlap between Tully’s civic freedom and the study of nonviolence is the shared emphasis on practice, on methods, on means rather than on ends. \"For cooperative citizens,\" Tully writes, \"means and ends are internally related, like a seed to the full-grown plant, as Gandhi put it.\" This is because means \"are pre-figurative or constitutive of ends. Consequently, democratic and peaceful relationships among humans are brought about by democratic and non-violent means.\"\n\nTully repudiates the \"depressing history\" of \"self-defeating violent means.\" He rejects the idea, prevalent across the spectrum of Western political thought, from revolutionaries to reactionaries (the \"reigning dogma of the left and right\") that peaceful and democratic societies can be brought about by coercive and violent means. Rather, according to Tully, \"the means of violence and command relationships do not bring about peace and democracy. They too are constitutive means. They bring about security dilemmas and the spiral of the command relations necessary for war preparation, arms races and more violence.\"\n\nFor these reasons, Tully extends his civics-based public philosophy to \"practitioners and social scientists [who] are beginning to appreciate the transformative power of participatory non-violence and the futility of war in comparison.\"\n\nTully’s approach to nonviolent citizenship practices includes relations with the non-human world. Tully argues that Homo Sapiens should see themselves as interdependent civic citizens of the ecological relationships in which they live and breathe and have their being. As such, they have responsibilities to care for and sustain these relationships that, in reciprocity, sustain them and all the other life forms that are interdependent on them.\n\nTully’s \"Gaia citizenship\" draws on earth sciences and life sciences as well as indigenous traditions. For example, pointing to the work of ecological scientists from Aldo Leopold, Rachel Carson, and Barry Commoner to the Intergovernmental Panels on Climate Change, Tully links the unsustainability crisis of the Anthropocene to his own critique of \"modern civil\" modes of governmentality (as violent, exploitative, and destructive). Likewise, he points to Indigenous knowledge that conceptualises human interconnectedness with the earth as gift-reciprocity relationships and as a model for social relationships. The famous Indigenous artwork \"Spirit of Haida Gwaii\" remains exemplary of democratic and pluralistic ways of thinking and acting – between humans and the natural environments on which they depend.\n\nTully’s argument is that his account of interdependent agents in relationships of governance and situated freedom can be extended with modifications to describe human situatedness in ecological relationships – as either giving rise to ‘virtuous’ or ‘vicious cycles’, depending on how we act in and on them.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25691700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25691700", "title": "John Kekes", "text": "John Kekes\n\nJohn Kekes (; born 22 November 1936) is Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University at Albany, SUNY.\n\nKekes received his Ph.D. in philosophy from the Australian National University.\n\nKekes is the author of a number of books on ethics, including \"The Examined Life\" (Penn State University Press, 1988), \"The Morality of Pluralism\" (Princeton University Press, 1996), \"Moral Wisdom and Good Lives\" (Cornell University Press, 1997), \"The Art of Life\" (Cornell University Press, 2005), \"The Roots of Evil\" (Cornell University Press, 2007), \"Enjoyment\" (Oxford University Press, 2009), and \"The Enlargement of Life: Moral Imagination at Work\" (Cornell University Press, 2010).\n\nKekes is also a noted conservative thinker. His works on political philosophy include \"Against Liberalism\" (Cornell University Press, 1988), \"A Case for Conservatism\" (Cornell University Press, 1998), \"The Illusions of Egalitarianism\" (Cornell University Press, 2007) and \"The Art of Politics: The New Betrayal of America and How to Resist It\" (Encounter, 2008). A shorter summary of some of Kekes's objections to modern liberalism, specifically the influence of philosophers John Rawls and Ronald Dworkin, can be found in his 2001 article \"Dangerous Egalitarian Dreams\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14091688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14091688", "title": "Karen Barad", "text": "Karen Barad\n\nKaren Michelle Barad (; born 29 April 1956) is an American feminist theorist, known particularly for her theory of agential realism. She is currently Professor of Feminist Studies, Philosophy, and History of Consciousness at the University of California, Santa Cruz. She is the author of \"Meeting the Universe Halfway: Quantum Physics and the Entanglement of Matter and Meaning\". Her research topics include feminist theory, physics, twentieth-century continental philosophy, epistemology, ontology, philosophy of physics, cultural studies of science, and feminist science studies.\n\nBarad earned her doctorate in theoretical physics at Stony Brook University. Her dissertation presented computational methods for quantifying properties of quarks, and other fermions, and in the framework of lattice gauge theory.\n\nBarad serves on the advisory board for the feminist academic journals \"Catalyst: Feminism, Theory, Technoscience\" and \"Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society\".\n\nAccording to Barad's theory of agential realism, the universe comprises phenomena, which are \"the ontological inseparability of intra-acting agencies\". Intra-action, a neologism introduced by Barad, signals an important challenge to individualist metaphysics. For Barad, phenomena or objects do not precede their interaction, rather, 'objects' emerge through particular intra-actions. Thus, apparatuses, which produce phenomena, are not assemblages of humans and nonhumans (as in actor-network theory). Rather, they are the condition of possibility of 'humans' and 'non-humans', not merely as ideational concepts, but in their materiality. Apparatuses are 'material-discursive' in that they produce determinate meanings and material beings while simultaneously excluding the production of others. What it means to matter is therefore always material-discursive. Barad takes her inspiration from physicist Niels Bohr, one of the founders of quantum physics. Barad's agential realism is at once an epistemology (theory of knowing), an ontology (theory of being), and an ethics. For this, Barad employs the term onto-epistemology. Because specific practices of mattering have ethical consequences, excluding other kinds of mattering, onto-epistemological practices are always in turn onto-ethico-epistemological.\n\nMuch of Barad's scholarly work has revolved around her concept of \"agential realism,\" and her theories hold importance for many academic fields, including science studies, STS (Science, Technology, and Society), feminist technoscience, philosophy of science, feminist theory, and, of course, physics. In addition to Bohr, her work draws a great deal on the works of Michel Foucault and Judith Butler, as demonstrated in her influential article in the feminist journal differences, \"Getting Real: Technoscientific Practices and the Materialization of Reality.\"\n\nBarad's original training was in theoretical physics. Her book, \"Meeting the Universe Halfway\", (2007), includes a chapter that contains an original discovery in theoretical physics, which is largely unheard of in books that are usually categorized as 'gender studies' or 'cultural theory' books. In this book, Barad also argues that 'agential realism,' is useful to the analysis of literature, social inequalities, and many other things. This claim is based on the fact that Barad's agential realism is a way of understanding the politics, ethics, and agencies of any act of observation, and indeed any kind of knowledge practice. According to Barad, the deeply connected way that everything is entangled with everything else means that any act of observation makes a \"cut\" between what is included and excluded from what is being considered. Nothing is inherently separate from anything else, but separations are temporarily enacted so one can examine something long enough to gain knowledge about it. This view of knowledge provides a framework for thinking about how culture and habits of thought can make some things visible and other things easier to ignore or to never see. For this reason, according to Barad, agential realism is useful for any kind of feminist analysis, even if the connection to science is not apparent.\n\nBarad's framework makes several other arguments, and some of them are part of larger trends in fields such as science studies and feminist technoscience (all can be found in her 2007 book, \"Meeting the Universe Halfway\"):\n\n\nThese points on science, agency, ethics, and knowledge reveal that Barad's work is similar to the projects of other science studies scholars such as Bruno Latour, Donna Haraway, Andrew Pickering, and Evelyn Fox Keller.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53487444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53487444", "title": "Khalil Kamarah'i", "text": "Khalil Kamarah'i\n\nAyatollah Haj Mirza Khalil Kamarah'i (; born 1898, Ferneq – died 1984, Tehran, Iran) He was an author, researcher and philosopher of contemporary theology that sought to unite the Muslim sects supporting his cause. He studied under Abdul-Karim Ha'eri Yazdi in Arak and Qom. He continued his studies of various Islamic subjects and philosophy throughout his life. He worked with the administration in the Vatican City on various philosophical questions, which he later released in a separate book. He travelled to Cairo on behalf of Seyyed Hossein Borujerdi and Mahmud Shaltut, the Grand Mufti and dean of Al-Azhar University Sheikh, for fatwa. He were an imam for the Jamaat of Fakhr Al-dole mosque in Tehran for more than three decades and thought at the University of Theology in Tehran for five years.\n\nHe died in his home in Tehran, on Thursday 11 October 1984 after two years of illness. He was buried in Qom, near the Fatima Masumeh Shrine.\n"}
{"id": "25854122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25854122", "title": "Krastyo Krastev", "text": "Krastyo Krastev\n\nKrastyo Kotev Krastev ( ; also transliterated as \"Krǎstjo Krǎstev\", \"Krustyo Krustev\", etc.) (31 May 1866 – 15 April 1919), popularly known as Dr. Krastev (д-р Кръстев), was a Bulgarian writer, translator, philosopher and public figure most notable as Bulgaria's first professional literary critic. Krastev was an influential member of the modernist \"Misal\" (\"Thought\") circle, a leading collaboration of writers that aimed to revolutionize Bulgarian literature and introduce the modern ideas of European literature and philosophy to the country.\n\nKrastyo Krastev was born in the Ottoman town of Pirot (then part of the empire's Niš district in Danube Province), today in eastern Serbia. He began his education in his hometown, where he finished a Bulgarian \"progymnasium\" (junior high school). Along with a wave of Bulgarian refugees, his family had to move to the newly established Principality of Bulgaria in 1878, as Pirot was ceded to the Principality of Serbia by the Treaty of Berlin. Krastev's family settled in the capital Sofia, where he enrolled at the First Sofia High School for Boys.\n\nOwing to the high school curriculum's focus on classical languages, he studied Ancient Greek along with French, German, Russian, shorthand and other subjects. While still at high school, Krastev worked as a shorthand writer for the National Assembly of Bulgaria. Krastev finished high school in 1885 and in 1888 graduated in philosophy from the University of Leipzig in the German Empire, where he wrote a doctorate under Wilhelm Wundt, the father of experimental psychology. His doctorate discussed Hermann Lotze's metaphysical concept of the soul. Krastev was engaged in literary criticism while still in Leipzig, where he wrote a study on Ivan Vazov's poetical works.\n\nAfter his graduation, Krastev returned to Bulgaria to become the headmaster of the Kazanlak pedagogical school (1888–1890) and then a teacher of logic, psychology and ethics at the First Sofia High School for Boys (1890–1891). In 1892, he was employed by the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a translator. After the opening of Sofia University, Krastev was appointed as a lecturer of philosophy in 1895; he taught philosophy at the Sofia University in 1895–1896, 1899–1907, and 1908–1919. In 1899–1904, he was again a teacher at the First Sofia High School for Boys, and in 1907–1908 he was the headmaster of the Bulgarian pedagogical school in Skopje, Macedonia. Accepted by the Bulgarian Literary Society (today Bulgarian Academy of Sciences) as a correspondent member in 1898, he was made a full member in 1900. Krastev died in Sofia in 1919.\n\nFrom 1888 on, Krastev gained prominence among the Bulgarian literary society with his regular publications of critics and reviews in the press. He was the editor of a literary magazine while still in Kazanlak, and in 1891 he published the \"Kritika\" (\"Critic\") magazine, the first Bulgarian magazine devoted to literary criticism. He is best remembered as the editor-in-chief of the literary magazine \"Misal\" (\"Thought\"), the leading literary magazine in Bulgaria before World War I, and as being an inseparable part of the eponymous circle formed around it. The circle, which consisted of Krastev, Pencho Slaveykov, Peyo Yavorov and Petko Todorov, aimed to introduce modernism to the Bulgarian public and to develop an aesthetic sense in the readers. Its goal was also to introduce European influences in Bulgarian literature while retaining its unique characteristics. \"Misal\" was issued between 1892 and 1907.\n\nAs a critic, Krastev contributed to a large number of Bulgarian magazines and newspapers, and had extensive studies on modern Bulgarian literature published in prominent foreign publications such as the Saint Petersburg-based \"Sovremennik\" and \"Vestnik Evropy\" and the \"Internationale Wochenschrift\" from Berlin. He was often critical towards the \"old\" representatives of Bulgarian literature, such as Vazov, Zahari Stoyanov, Elin Pelin, and Lyuben Karavelov, as he was more favourable towards the modern trends and \"young\" writers, the careers of some of which his reviews boosted. Krastev's philosophical views have been described as emphasizing subjective idealism while being nevertheless eclectic in nature. Krastev was a staunch opponent of Ludwig Büchner's materialism and his Bulgarian supporters, and his aesthetic views were influenced by Neo-Kantianism. Krastev's work as a translator is also notable: he published Bulgarian translations of Lessing's \"Emilia Galotti\", Henrik Ibsen's \"John Gabriel Borkman\", \"When We Dead Awaken\", \"Ghosts\" and \"An Enemy of the People\" and works by Descartes.\n"}
{"id": "51384141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51384141", "title": "LDAP Admin", "text": "LDAP Admin\n\nLDAP Admin is a free, open-source LDAP directory management tool licensed under the GNU General Public License. Small and compact, LDAP Admin is also highly configurable through the use of the template extensions. In addition to common browsing and editing functions, LDAP Admin provides a directory management functionality by supporting a number of application-specific LDAP objects such as Posix and Samba groups and accounts, Postfix objects and a number of Active Directory objects. It also provides an XML-based template engine which extends the application in a seamless way allowing it to support virtually unlimited number of user defined objects.\n\nSome of the key features include:\nAs of version 1.3 the templates support for JavaScript and VBScript was introduced providing for a dynamic templates.\n\nLDAP Admin runs on the Windows operating systems only. By using the Wine software, it is apparently possible to run the application on a Linux and Mac OS X operating systems. Since recently, there is also a Linux port (still Beta) of LdapAdmin.\n\n"}
{"id": "5571847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5571847", "title": "Lottery paradox", "text": "Lottery paradox\n\nHenry E. Kyburg, Jr.'s lottery paradox arises from considering a fair 1000-ticket lottery that has exactly one winning ticket. If this much is known about the execution of the lottery it is therefore rational to accept that some ticket will win. Suppose that an event is very likely only if the probability of it occurring is greater than 0.99. On these grounds it is presumed rational to accept the proposition that ticket 1 of the lottery will not win. Since the lottery is fair, it is rational to accept that ticket 2 will not win either—indeed, it is rational to accept for any individual ticket \"i\" of the lottery that ticket \"i\" will not win. However, accepting that ticket 1 will not win, accepting that ticket 2 will not win, and so on until accepting that ticket 1000 will not win entails that it is rational to accept that \"no\" ticket will win, which entails that it is rational to accept the contradictory proposition that one ticket wins and no ticket wins.\n\nThe lottery paradox was designed to demonstrate that three attractive principles governing rational acceptance lead to contradiction, namely that\n\nThe paradox remains of continuing interest because it raises several issues at the foundations of knowledge representation and uncertain reasoning: the relationships between fallibility, corrigible belief and logical consequence; the roles that consistency, statistical evidence and probability play in belief fixation; the precise normative force that logical and probabilistic consistency have on rational belief.\n\nAlthough the first published statement of the lottery paradox appears in Kyburg's 1961 \"Probability and the Logic of Rational Belief\", the first formulation of the paradox appears in his \"Probability and Randomness\", a paper delivered at the 1959 meeting of the Association for Symbolic Logic, and the 1960 International Congress for the History and Philosophy of Science, but published in the journal \"Theoria\" in 1963. This paper is reprinted in Kyburg (1987).\n\nRaymond Smullyan presents the following variation on the lottery paradox: One is either inconsistent or conceited. Since the human brain is finite, there are a finite number of propositions … that one believes. But unless you are conceited, you know that you sometimes make mistakes, and that not everything you believe is true. Therefore, if you are not conceited, you know that at least some of the are false. Yet you believe each of the individually. This is an inconsistency.\n\nThe lottery paradox has become a central topic within epistemology, and the enormous literature surrounding this puzzle threatens to obscure its original purpose. Kyburg proposed the thought experiment to get across a feature of his innovative ideas on probability (Kyburg 1961, Kyburg and Teng 2001), which are built around taking the first two principles above seriously and rejecting the last. For Kyburg, the lottery paradox is not really a paradox: his solution is to restrict aggregation.\n\nEven so, for orthodox probabilists the second and third principles are primary, so the first principle is rejected. Here too one will see claims that there is really no paradox but an error: the solution is to reject the first principle, and with it the idea of rational acceptance. For anyone with basic knowledge of probability, the first principle should be rejected: for a very likely event, the rational belief about that event is just that it is very likely, not that it is true.\n\nMost of the literature in epistemology approaches the puzzle from the orthodox point of view and grapples with the particular consequences faced by doing so, which is why the lottery is associated with discussions of skepticism (e.g., Klein 1981), and conditions for asserting knowledge claims (e.g., J. P. Hawthorne 2004). It is common to also find proposed resolutions to the puzzle that turn on particular features of the lottery thought experiment (e.g., Pollock 1986), which then invites comparisons of the lottery to other epistemic paradoxes, such as David Makinson's preface paradox, and to \"lotteries\" having a different structure. This strategy is addressed in (Kyburg 1997) and also in (Wheeler 2007). An extensive bibliography is included in (Wheeler 2007).\n\nPhilosophical logicians and AI researchers have tended to be interested in reconciling weakened versions of the three principles, and there are many ways to do this, including Jim Hawthorne and Luc Bovens's (1999) logic of belief, Gregory Wheeler's (2006) use of 1-monotone capacities, Bryson Brown's (1999) application of preservationist para-consistent logics, Igor Douven and Timothy Williamson's (2006) appeal to cumulative non-monotonic logics, Horacio Arlo-Costa's (2007) use of minimal model (classical) modal logics, and Joe Halpern's (2003) use of first-order probability.\n\nFinally, philosophers of science, decision scientists, and statisticians are inclined to see the lottery paradox as an early example of the complications one faces in constructing principled methods for aggregating uncertain information, which is now a discipline of its own, with a dedicated journal, \"Information Fusion\", in addition to continuous contributions to general area journals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1294781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1294781", "title": "Marcel Conche", "text": "Marcel Conche\n\nMarcel Conche (born 27 March 1922 in Altillac), is a French philosopher, emeritus professor at the Sorbonne University (Paris).\n\n\"Philosophizing ad infinitum\" has been published by SUNY (State University of New York) Press, June 2014. It is the translation of one of his major works: \"Philosopher à l'infini\", published by PUF, Presses Universitaires de France, in 2005. \nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20160305012343/http://www.sunypress.edu/p-5869-philosophizing-ad-infinitum.aspx\n\nA recent publication (2003), the Tao Te Ching translation and comments in French, follows the format of previous works, such as \"Héraclite - Fragments\" (fragments of Heraclitus):\n\nIn this book he draws an interesting parallel between the nearly contemporaries Lao Zi (see Tao Te Ching) and Heraclitus: the river of the Greek is compared to the Dao of the Chinese.\n\nIn some cases (such as the Heraclitus) the text (as handed down by tradition, copyists, historians or other authors quoting the now unavailable original text) is reordered to follow a more logical order, from the simplest of principles to the most advanced.\n\n1. The History of Philosophy\n- Montaigne ou la conscience heureuse (Montaigne or Happy Conscience), Éd. Seghers, 1964, 1966, 1970; rééd. Éd. de Mégare, 1992; PUF 2002, 2007, 2011.\n- Montaigne et la philosophie (Montaigne and philosophy)), Éd. de Mégare, 1987, 1992; rééd. PUF, 1996, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011.\n- Préface à l'édition des Essais de Montaigne dans la collection \"Quadrige\", PUF, 2004, et Supplément, p. 1335-1365 (plan of the great 'Essais').\n- Lucrèce et l’expérience, Éd. Seghers 1967; rééd. Éd. de Mégare, 1981, 1990, 1996; Éd. Fides, coll. \"Noésis\", 2003; PUF, 2011.\n- Pyrrhon ou l’apparence (Pyrrho and appearance), Éd. de Mégare, 1973; 2e éd. remaniée et augmentée, PUF, 1994.\n- Épicure: Lettres et Maximes, texte, traduction, introduction et notes, Éd. de Mégare, 1977; rééd. PUF, 1987,1990, 1992, 1995, 1999, 2003, 2009.\n- Sur le \"De Fato\", inédit d'Octave Hamelin (On 'De fato', unedited by Octave Hamelin), publié et annoté par M. Conche, Éd. de Mégare, 1978.\n- Héraclite: Fragments, texte établi, traduit et commenté, PUF, 1986, 1987, 1991, 1998, 2003, 2011.\n- Anaximandre: Fragments et Témoignages, texte traduit et commenté, PUF, 1991, 2004, 2009.\n- Parménide. Le Poème: Fragments, texte établi, traduit et commenté, PUF, 1996, 1999, 2004, 2009.\n\n2. Criticism of Oriental Philosophy\n- Nietzsche et le bouddhisme, Cahiers du Collège international de philosophie, n° 4, nov. 1987; rééd. Encre Marine, 1997, 2007, 2009. Traduit en italien.\n- Lao‑Tseu, Tao‑Te‑king, traduction et commentaire, PUF, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2011. Commentaire traduit en chinois (commentary translated into Chinese).\n\n3. Metaphysics\n- Orientation philosophique (Philosophical orientation), Éd. de Mégare, 1974; 2e éd., remaniée et augmentée, avec préface d'André Comte‑Sponville, PUF, 1990, 1996; 3e éd. revue et augmentée, Les Belles Lettres, coll. \"Encre Marine\", 2011. Translated into Russian and Portuguese.\n- La mort et la pensée (Death and thought), Éd. de Mégare, 1974, 1975; rééd. Éd. Cécile Defaut, 2007.\n- Temps et destin (Time and destiny), Éd. de Mégare, 1980; 2e éd. augmentée, PUF, 1992, 1999.\n- L’aléatoire, Éd. de Mégare, 1989, 1990; 2e ed., PUF, 1999; 3e éd., augmentée, Les Belles Lettres, coll. \"Encre Marine\", 2012.\n- Le sens de la philosophie (The meaning of philosophy), Encre Marine, 1999; rééd. augmentée, 2003.\n- Présence de la nature (Presence of nature), PUF, 2001; rééd. augmentée, PUF, coll. \"Quadrige\", 2011.\n- Quelle philosophie pour demain? (Which philosophy for tomorrow?) PUF, 2003.\n- Philosopher à l’infini, PUF, 2005, 2006. Translated into Polish and English (2014, State University of New York Press: Philosophizing ad infinitum).\n- La liberté (Freedom), Les Belles Lettres, coll. \"Encre Marine\", 2011.\n- Métaphysique, PUF, 2012.\n\n4. Ethics and Moral Philosophy\n- Le fondement de la morale (Foundation of morality), Éd. de Mégare, 1982, 1990; rééd. PUF,1993, 1999, 2003. Translated into Portuguese.\n- Vivre et philosopher (Living and philosophizing), réponses aux questions de Lucile Laveggi, PUF, 1992, 1993, 1998; rééd. Livre de Poche, 2011.\n- Analyse de l’amour et autres sujets (Analysing love and other subjects), PUF, 1997, 1998, 1999; rééd. Livre de Poche, 2011. Traduit en portugais.\n- Entretien avec Sébastien Charles (Interview with Sébastien Charles), dans S. Charles, La philosophie française en question, Livre de poche, 1999.\n- Confession d’un philosophe, réponses à André Comte‑Sponville, Albin Michel 2003; rééd. Livre de Poche, 2003. Traduit en espagnol.\n- La voie certaine vers \"Dieu,\" (The certain way to God), Les cahiers de l’Égaré, 2008.\n\n5. Literary Works\n- Ma vie antérieure (Ma anterior life), Encre Marine, 1997, et Le destin de solitude, Encre Marine, 1999; rééd. dans Ma vie antérieure & Le destin de solitude, Encre Marine, 2003.\n- Essais sur Homère (Essais on Homer), PUF, 1999; rééd. coll. \"Quadrige\", 2003.\n- De l’amour (On love). Pensées trouvées dans un vieux cahier de dessin, Les cahiers de l’Égaré, 2003; rééd. Cécile Defaut, 2008.\n- Heidegger par gros temps, préface de Philippe Granarolo, Les Cahiers de l’Égaré, 2004. Traduit en espagnol.\n- Avec des \"si\". Journal étrange I (With \"yes-es\". Strange Journal I), PUF, 2006, 2008, 2011.\n- Oisivetés. Journal étrange II (Idleness. Strange Journal II), PUF, 2007.\n- Noms. Journal étrange III (Names. Strange Journal III), PUF, 2008.\n- Diversités. Journal étrange IV (Diversities. Strange Journal IV), Les Belles Lettres, coll. \"Encre Marine\", 2009.\n- Corsica. Journal étrange V (Corsica. Strange Journal V), PUF, 2010, 2011.\n- Le silence d’Émilie (The silence of Emilie), Les Cahiers de l’Égaré, 2010. Prix des Charmettes — Jean Jacques Rousseau.\n- Entretien avec Gilbert Moreau (Interview with Gilbert Moreau) dans Les moments littéraires, n° 26, 2011. Portrait par Syliane Malinowski‑Charles.\n- Ma vie (1922–1947), un amour sous l’Occupation (My life (1922-1947), a love under occupation), HDiffusion, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1800648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1800648", "title": "Media ethics", "text": "Media ethics\n\nMedia ethics is the subdivision of applied ethics dealing with the specific ethical principles and standards of media, including broadcast media, film, theatre, the arts, print media and the internet. The field covers many varied and highly controversial topics, ranging from war journalism to Benetton ad campaigns.\n\nMedia ethics involves promoting and defending values such as a universal respect for life and the rule of law and legality.\n\nLiterature regarding the ways in which specifically the Internet impacts media ethics in journalism online is scarce, thereby complicating the idea for a universal code of media ethics.\n\nResearch and publications in the field of information ethics has been produced since the 1980s. Notable figures include and Robert Hauptman (who focused his work specifically on censorship, privacy, access to information, balance in collection development, copyright, fair use, and codes of ethics), Rafael Capurro, Barbara J. Kostrewski and Charles Oppenheim (who wrote the article \"\"“Ethics in Information Science”\" , discussing issues as confidentiality of information, bias in information provided to clients or consumers, the quality of data supplied by online vendors, etc).\n\nIn the 1990s, the term \"information ethics\" began to be explored by various Computer Science and Information departments in the United States.\n\nIn the late 1990s, textbooks such as Richard Severson's \"The Principles of Information Ethics\" and Marsha Cook Woodbury's \"Computer and Information Ethics\", and Deborah G. Johnson's \"Computer Ethics\" were published.\n\nMedia ethics: Issues of moral principles and values as applied to the conduct, roles, and *content of the mass media, in particular journalism ethics and standards and marketing ethics; also the field of study concerned with this topic. In relation to news coverage it includes issues such as impartiality, objectivity, balance, bias, privacy, and the public interest. More generally, it also includes stereotyping, taste and decency, obscenity, freedom of speech, advertising practices such as product placement, and legal issues such as defamation. On an institutional level it includes debates over media ownership and control, commercialization, accountability, the relation of the media to the political system, issues arising from regulation (e.g. censorship) and deregulation.\n\nThe ethics of journalism is one of the most well-defined branches of media ethics, primarily because it is frequently taught in\nschools of journalism. Journalistic ethics tend to dominate media ethics, sometimes almost to the exclusion of other areas. Topics covered by journalism ethics include:\n\nThe Internet has shaped and redefined various ethical and moral issues for both online journalists and journalists utilizing online resources.\n\nWhile some journalists continue to adhere to ethical principles of traditional journalism, many journalists believe that with the absence of a mutually agreed upon code of ethics specifically pertaining to internet ethics, and lack of literature dealing specifically with the ways in which the Internet impacts media ethics in journalism online, the online environment poses new threats to the profession.\n\nSome of the core issues of media ethics in online journalism include commercial pressures, accuracy and credibility (which include he issues dealing with hyperlinks), verification of facts, regulation, privacy, and news-gathering methods.\n\nIssues in the ethics of entertainment media include:\n\nIn democratic countries, a special relationship exists between media and government. Although the freedom of the media may be constitutionally enshrined and have precise legal definition and enforcement, the exercise of that freedom by individual journalists is a matter of personal choice and ethics.\nModern democratic government subsists in representation of millions by hundreds. For the representatives to be accountable, and for the process of government to be transparent, effective communication paths must exist to their constituents. Today these paths consist primarily of the mass media, to the extent that if press freedom disappeared, so would most political accountability.\nIn this area, media ethics merges with issues of civil rights and politics. Issues include: \nSee: freedom of information, media transparency Right to Information.\nL Mera\n\nMedia integrity refers to the ability of a media outlet to serve the public interest and democratic process, making it resilient to institutional corruption within the media system, economy of influence, conflicting dependence and political clientelism. Media integrity encompasses following qualities of a media outlet: \n\nThe concept was devised particularly for the media systems in the region of South East Europe, within the project South East European Media Observatory, gathering organisations which are part of the South East European Network for Professionalization of Media (SEENPM).\n\nWithin the last two decades, numerous regional discussions have taken place in Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Asia in order to create a universal code of ethics for the information society.\n\nOne of the core issues in developing a universal code for media ethics is the difficulty of finding a common ground between ethical principles from one culture to another. Also, such codes may be interpreted differently according to various moral and legal standards.\n\nThe ethical facet of the global information society has been on the UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) agenda since 1997, when the organization initiated their first INFOethics Congress. The objective of this summit was to spark debate on the ethical dimension of the global information society. The UNESCO INFOethics Congresses then met in 1998 and 2000, where specialists coming from a wide range of educational, scientific, and cultural environments addressed the ethical dimensions of global media and information.\n\nIn 2004, the ICIE, or International Center for Information Ethics, organized the firs international symposium on information ethics in Karlsuhe, Germany. Experts with varying scientific backgrounds such as computer science, information science, media studies, and economics, gathered from all over the world to discuss the internet from both an ethical and intercultural perspective.\n\nMedia economics where things such as -- deregulation of media, concentration of media ownership, FCC regulations in the U.S, media trade unions and labor issues, and other such worldwide regulating bodies, citizen media (low power FM, community radio) -- have ethical implications...\n\nThe media has manipulated the way public officials conduct themselves through the advancement of technology. Constant television coverage displays the legislative proceedings; exposing faster than ever before, unjust rulings throughout the government process. Truth telling is crucial in media ethics as any opposition of truth telling is considered deception. Anything shown by the media whether print or video is considered to be original. When a statement is written in an article or a video is shown of a public official, it is the original “truthful” words of the individual official themselves.\n\nIf values differ interculturally, the issue arises of the extent to which behaviour should be modified in the light of the values of specific cultures. Two examples of controversy from the field of media ethics:\n\nOne theoretical question for media ethics is the extent to which media ethics is just another topical subdivision of applied ethics, differing only in terms of case applications and raising no theoretical issues peculiar to itself. The oldest subdivisions of applied ethics are medical ethics and business ethics. Does media ethics have anything new to add other than interesting cases?\n\nPrivacy and honesty are issues extensively covered in medical ethical literature, as is\nthe principle of harm-avoidance. The trade-offs between economic goals and social values has been\ncovered extensively in business ethics (as well as medical and environmental ethics).\n\nThe issues of freedom of speech and aesthetic values (taste) are primarily at home in media ethics. However a number of further issues distinguish media ethics as a field in its own right.\n\nA theoretical issue peculiar to media ethics is the identity of \"observer\" and \"observed\". The press is one of the primary guardians in a democratic society of many of the freedoms, rights and duties discussed by other fields of applied ethics. In media ethics the ethical obligations of the guardians themselves comes more strongly into the foreground. Who guards the guardians? This question also arises in the field of legal ethics.\n\nA further self-referentiality or circular characteristic in media ethics is the questioning of its own values. Meta-issues can become identical with the subject matter of media ethics. This is most strongly seen when artistic elements are considered. Benetton advertisements and Turner prize candidates are both examples of ethically questionable media uses which question their own\nquestioner.\n\nAnother characteristic of media ethics is the disparate nature of its goals. Ethical dilemmas emerge when goals conflict. The goals of media usage diverge sharply. Expressed in a consequentialist manner, media usage may be subject to pressures to maximize: economic profits, entertainment value, information provision, the upholding of democratic freedoms, the development of art and culture, fame and vanity.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196799", "title": "Monopsychism", "text": "Monopsychism\n\nMonopsychism is the belief that all humans share the same eternal consciousness, soul, mind and intellect. It is also a recurring feature in many mystical traditions.\n\nMonopsychism is a doctrine of Sabianism, Jewish Kabbalah, and Averroism, and also forms a part of the Rastafarian belief system.\n\nThomas Aquinas disagreed with this belief and devoted most of his writing to Averroism and criticized monopsychism. One of his works, a commentary on Aristotle's \"On the soul\", is titled \"De unitate intellectus contra Averroistas\". In this commentary, Aquinas demonstrates how Averroes misinterpreted Aristotle's argument, claiming that the correct interpretation was that an individual's intellect cannot be independent of his or her physical body.\n\n"}
{"id": "51885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51885", "title": "Multiculturalism", "text": "Multiculturalism\n\nThe term multiculturalism has a range of meanings within the contexts of sociology, of political philosophy, and of colloquial use. In sociology and in everyday usage, it is a synonym for \"ethnic pluralism\", with the two terms often used interchangeably, for example, a cultural pluralism in which various ethnic groups collaborate and enter into a dialogue with one another without having to sacrifice their particular identities. It can describe a mixed ethnic community area where multiple cultural traditions exist (such as New York City) or a single country within which they do (such as Switzerland, Belgium or Russia). Groups associated with an aboriginal or autochthonous ethnic group and foreigner ethnic groups are often the focus.\n\nIn reference to sociology, multiculturalism is the end-state of either a natural or artificial process (for example: legally-controlled immigration) and occurs on either a large national scale or on a smaller scale within a nation's communities. On a smaller scale this can occur artificially when a jurisdiction is established or expanded by amalgamating areas with two or more different cultures (e.g. French Canada and English Canada). On a large scale, it can occur as a result of either legal or illegal migration to and from different jurisdictions around the world (for example, Anglo-Saxon settlement of Britain by Angles, Saxons and Jutes in the 5th century or the colonization of the Americas by Europeans, Africans and Asians since the 16th century).\n\nMulticulturalism as a political philosophy involves ideologies and policies which vary widely, ranging from the advocacy of equal respect to the various cultures in a society, through policies of promoting the maintenance of cultural diversity, to policies in which people of various ethnic and religious groups are addressed by the authorities as defined by the group to which they belong.\n\nMulticulturalism that promotes maintaining the distinctiveness of multiple cultures is often contrasted to other settlement policies such as social integration, cultural assimilation and racial segregation. Multiculturalism has been described as a \"salad bowl\" and as a \"cultural mosaic\" - in contrast to a melting pot.\n\nTwo different and seemingly inconsistent strategies have developed through different government policies and strategies. The first focuses on interaction and communication between different cultures; this approach is also often known as interculturalism. The second centers on diversity and cultural uniqueness, which can sometimes result in intercultural competition over jobs (among other things) and may lead to ethnic conflict. Discussions surrounding the issue of cultural isolation may address the ghettoization of a culture within a nation and the protection of the cultural attributes of an area or of a nation. Proponents of government policies often claim that artificial, government-guided protections also contribute to global cultural diversity. The second approach to multiculturalist policy-making maintains that they avoid presenting any specific ethnic, religious, or cultural community values as central.\n\nIn the political philosophy of multiculturalism, ideas are focused on the ways in which societies are either believed to or should, respond to cultural and religious differences. It is often associated with \"identity politics\", \"the politics of difference\", and \"the politics of recognition\". It is also a matter of economic interests and political power. In more recent times political multiculturalist ideologies have been expanding in their use to include and define disadvantaged groups such as African Americans, LGBT, with arguments often focusing on ethnic and religious minorities, minority nations, indigenous peoples and even the disabled. It is within this context in which the term is most commonly understood and the broadness and scope of the definition, as well as its practical use, has been the subject of serious debate.\n\nMost debates over multiculturalism center around whether or not multiculturalism is the appropriate way to deal with diversity and immigrant integration. The arguments regarding the perceived rights to a multicultural education include the proposition that it acts as a way to demand recognition of aspects of a group's culture subordination and its entire experience in contrast to a melting pot or non-multicultural societies.\n\nThe term multiculturalism is most often used in reference to Western nation-states, which had seemingly achieved a de facto single national identity during the 18th and/or 19th centuries.\nMulticulturalism has been official policy in several Western nations since the 1970s, for reasons that varied from country to country, including the fact that many of the great cities of the Western world are increasingly made of a mosaic of cultures.\n\nThe Canadian government has often been described as the instigator of multicultural ideology because of its public emphasis on the social importance of immigration. The Canadian Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism is often referred to as the origins of modern political awareness of multiculturalism. In the Western English-speaking countries, multiculturalism as an official national policy started in Canada in 1971, followed by Australia in 1973 where it is maintained today. It was quickly adopted as official policy by most member-states of the European Union. Recently, right-of-center governments in several European states – notably the Netherlands and Denmark – have reversed the national policy and returned to an official monoculturalism. A similar reversal is the subject of debate in the United Kingdom, among others, due to evidence of incipient segregation and anxieties over \"home-grown\" terrorism. Several heads-of-state or heads-of-government have expressed doubts about the success of multicultural policies: The United Kingdom's ex-Prime Minister David Cameron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Australia's ex-prime minister John Howard, Spanish ex-prime minister Jose Maria Aznar and French ex-president Nicolas Sarkozy have voiced concerns about the effectiveness of their multicultural policies for integrating immigrants.\n\nMany nation-states in Africa, Asia, and the Americas are culturally diverse and are 'multicultural' in a descriptive sense. In some, communalism is a major political issue. The policies adopted by these states often have parallels with multiculturalist policies in the Western world, but the historical background is different, and the goal may be a mono-cultural or mono-ethnic nation-building – for instance in the Malaysian government's attempt to create a 'Malaysian race' by 2020.\n\nMulticulturalism is seen by its supporters as a fairer system that allows people to truly express who they are within a society, that is more tolerant and that adapts better to social issues. They argue that culture is not one definable thing based on one race or religion, but rather the result of multiple factors that change as the world changes.\n\nHistorically, support for modern multiculturalism stems from the changes in Western societies after World War II, in what Susanne Wessendorf calls the \"human rights revolution\", in which the horrors of institutionalized racism and ethnic cleansing became almost impossible to ignore in the wake of the Holocaust; with the collapse of the European colonial system, as colonized nations in Africa and Asia successfully fought for their independence and pointed out the discriminatory underpinnings of the colonial system; and, in the United States in particular, with the rise of the Civil Rights Movement, which criticized ideals of assimilation that often led to prejudices against those who did not act according to Anglo-American standards and which led to the development of academic ethnic studies programs as a way to counteract the neglect of contributions by racial minorities in classrooms. As this history shows, multiculturalism in Western countries was seen to combat racism, to protect minority communities of all types, and to undo policies that had prevented minorities from having full access to the opportunities for freedom and equality promised by the liberalism that has been the hallmark of Western societies since the Age of Enlightenment. The contact hypothesis in sociology is a well documented phenomenon in which cooperative interactions with those from a different group than one's own reduce prejudice and inter-group hostility.\n\nC. James Trotman argues that multiculturalism is valuable because it \"uses several disciplines to highlight neglected aspects of our social history, particularly the histories of women and minorities [...and] promotes respect for the dignity of the lives and voices of the forgotten. By closing gaps, by raising consciousness about the past, multiculturalism tries to restore a sense of wholeness in a postmodern era that fragments human life and thought.\"\n\nTariq Modood argues that in the early years of the 21st century, multiculturalism \"is most timely and necessary, and [...] we need more not less\", since it is \"the form of integration\" that (1) best fits the ideal of egalitarianism, (2) has \"the best chance of succeeding\" in the \"post-9/11, post 7/7\" world, and (3) has remained \"moderate [and] pragmatic\".\n\nBhikhu Parekh counters what he sees as the tendencies to equate multiculturalism with racial minorities \"demanding special rights\" and to see it as promoting a \"thinly veiled racis[m]\". Instead, he argues that multiculturalism is in fact \"not about minorities\" but \"is about the proper terms of relationship between different cultural communities\", which means that the standards by which the communities resolve their differences, e.g., \"the principles of justice\" must not come from only one of the cultures but must come \"through an open and equal dialogue between them.\"\n\nBalibar characterizes criticisms of multiculturalism as \"differentialist racism\", which he describes as a covert form of racism that does not purport ethnic superiority as much as it asserts stereotypes of perceived \"incompatibility of life-styles and traditions\".\n\nWhile there is research that suggests that ethnic diversity increases chances of war, lower public goods provision and decreases democratization, there is also research that shows that ethnic diversity in itself is not detrimental to peace, public goods provision or democracy. Rather, it was found that promoting diversity actually helps in advancing disadvantaged students. A 2018 study in the \"American Political Science Review\" cast doubts on findings that ethnoracial homogeneity led to greater public goods provision. A 2015 study in the \"American Journal of Sociology\" challenged past research showing that racial diversity adversely affected trust.\n\nThe Wikimedia Foundation suggests that \"diversity of perspectives is crucial to increasing the quality of the free knowledge resources that [their] movement provides\". Wikidata also suggests that \"the world is complicated and there is no single truth–especially in a knowledge base that is supposed to serve many cultures.\"\n\nCritics of multiculturalism often debate whether the multicultural ideal of benignly co-existing cultures that interrelate and influence one another, and yet remain distinct, is sustainable, paradoxical, or even desirable. It is argued that nation states, who would previously have been synonymous with a distinctive cultural identity of their own, lose out to enforced multiculturalism and that this ultimately erodes the host nations' distinct culture.\n\nHarvard professor of political science Robert D. Putnam conducted a nearly decade-long study on how multiculturalism affects social trust. He surveyed 26,200 people in 40 American communities, finding that when the data were adjusted for class, income and other factors, the more racially diverse a community is, the greater the loss of trust. People in diverse communities \"don’t trust the local mayor, they don’t trust the local paper, they don’t trust other people and they don’t trust institutions,\" writes Putnam. In the presence of such ethnic diversity, Putnam maintains that:\n\"[W]e hunker down. We act like turtles. The effect of diversity is worse than had been imagined. And it’s not just that we don’t trust people who are not like us. In diverse communities, we don’t trust people who do look like us\".\n\nPutnam has also stated, however, that \"this allergy to diversity tends to diminish and to go away... I think in the long run we'll all be better.\"\n\nEthnologist Frank Salter writes:\nRelatively homogeneous societies invest more in public goods, indicating a higher level of public altruism. For example, the degree of ethnic homogeneity correlates with the government's share of gross domestic product as well as the average wealth of citizens. Case studies of the United States, Africa and South-East Asia find that multi-ethnic societies are less charitable and less able to cooperate to develop public infrastructure. Moscow beggars receive more gifts from fellow ethnics than from other ethnies . A recent multi-city study of municipal spending on public goods in the United States found that ethnically or racially diverse cities spend a smaller portion of their budgets and less per capita on public services than do the more homogeneous cities.\nDick Lamm, former three-term Democratic governor of the US state of Colorado, wrote in his essay \"I have a plan to destroy America\":\n\nDiverse peoples worldwide are mostly engaged in hating each other—that is, when they are not killing each other. A diverse, peaceful, or stable society is against most historical precedent.\"\n\nA number of conservative historians used the religion of the Mexica, better known as the Aztecs as an example of what they see as the flaws of multiculturalism. The Australian historian Keith Windschuttle cited the accounts of his fellow Australian historian Inga Clendinnen of the festival of Ochpaniztli where to honor the Maize Lord a young woman was sacrificed by ripping out her heart so the crops might grow:\nThen, still in darkness, silence, and urgent haste, her body was flayed, and a naked priest, a 'very strong man, very powerful, very tall', struggled into the wet skin, with its slack breasts and pouched genitalia: a double nakedness of layered, ambiguous sexuality. The skin of one thigh was reserved to be fashioned into a face-mask for the man impersonating Centeotl, Young Lord Maize Cob, the son of Toci.\n\nWindschuttle argued that the gruesome religion of the Aztecs that required that dozens of young people be sacrificed and eaten every day so that the sun might rise the next day and hundreds of people sacrificed for major holidays as proving that multiculturalism is a facile doctrine that requires Westerners to respect Aztec religion as equal to any other religion. The American classicist Victor Davis Hanson used the perceived differences in \"rationality\" between Moctezuma and Cortés to argue that Western culture was superior to every culture in the entire world, which thus led him to reject multiculturalism as a false doctrine that placed all cultures on an equal footing.\nIn New Zealand (Aotearoa), which is officially bi-cultural, multiculturalism has been seen as a threat to the Maori, and possibly an attempt by the New Zealand Government to undermine Maori demands for self determination.\n\nThough not called \"Multiculturalism\" as such, the preamble of Argentina's constitution explicitly promotes immigration, and recognizes the individual's multiple citizenship from other countries. Though 97% of Argentina's population self-identify as of European descent to this day a high level of multiculturalism remains a feature of Argentina's culture, allowing foreign festivals and holidays (e.g. Saint Patrick's Day), supporting all kinds of art or cultural expression from ethnic groups, as well as their diffusion through an important multicultural presence in the media; for instance it is not uncommon to find newspapers or radio programs in English, German, Italian, French or Portuguese in Argentina.\n\nBolivia is a diverse country made up of 36 different types of indigenous groups. Over 62% of Bolivia's population falls into these different ingenious groups, making it the most indigenous country in Latin America. Out of the indigenous groups the Aymara and the Quechua are the largest. The latter 30% of the population is apart of the mestizo, which are a people mixed with European and indigenous ancestry. Bolivia's political administrations have endorsed multicultural politics and in 2009 Bolivia's Constitution was inscribed with multicultural principles. The Constitution of Bolivia recognizes 36 official languages besides Spanish, each language has its own culture and indigenous group. Bolivian culture is celebrated across the country and has heavy influences from the Aymara, the Quechua, the Spanish, and other popular cultures from around Latin America.\n\nThe Americas have been known to be some of the most multicultural geographical locations, as many of the times there is a diversity of language, religion, and ethnicities present. The South American country Brazil can also acclaim multiculturalism, and has undergone many changes in the past few decades. Brazil is a controversial country when is comes to defining a multicultural country. There are two views, in which the Harvard Institute of Economic Research states that Brazil has an intersection of many culture because of recent migration. On the other hand there is Pew Research Center, in which they state that Brazil is culturally diverse but majority of the country speaks Portuguese.\n\nWith cities such as São Paulo, who are seen to be home to many migrants from Japan, Italy, and Lebanon. There is a multicultural presence within in this city, and this is prevalent throughout Brazil. Furthermore, Brazil is a country who has made great strides to embrace migrant cultures, and with its increase of Afro-Descent people they have made changes to become more aware and welcoming. There has been an increase of awareness of anti-blackness and they have actively finding ways to combat racism in Brazil.\n\nCanadian society is often depicted as being \"very progressive, diverse, and multicultural\". Multiculturalism (a Just Society) was adopted as the official policy of the Canadian government during the premiership of Pierre Elliott Trudeau in the 1970s and 1980s. Multiculturalism is reflected in the law through the Canadian Multiculturalism Act and section 27 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Broadcasting Act of 1991 asserts the Canadian broadcasting system should reflect the diversity of cultures in the country. Canadian multiculturalism is looked upon with admiration outside the country, resulting in the Canadian public dismissing most critics of the concept. Multiculturalism in Canada is often looked at as one of Canada's significant accomplishments, and a key distinguishing element of Canadian identity.\n\nIn a 2002 interview with \"The Globe and Mail\", Karīm al-Hussainī the 49th Aga Khan of the Ismaili Muslims described Canada as \"the most successful pluralist society on the face of our globe\", citing it as \"a model for the world\". He explained that the experience of Canadian governance—its commitment to pluralism and its support for the rich multicultural diversity of its people—is something that must be shared and would be of benefit to all societies in other parts of the world. \"The Economist\" ran a cover story in 2016 praising Canada as the most successful multicultural society in the West. \"The Economist\" argued that Canada's multiculturalism was a source of strength that united the diverse population and by attracting immigrants from around the world was also an engine of economic growth as well. Many public and private groups in Canada work to support both multiculturalism and recent immigrants to Canada. In an effort to support recent Filipino immigrants to Alberta, for example, one school board partnered with a local university and an immigration agency to support these new families in their school and community .\n\nMexico has historically always been a multicultural country. After the betrayal of Hernan Cortes to the Aztecs, the Spanish conquered the Aztec Empire and colonized indigenous people. They influenced the indigenous' religion, politics, culture and ethnicity. The Spanish opened schools in which they taught Christianity, and the Spanish language which it eventually surpassed the indigenous dialects and languages, making it the most spoken language in Mexico. Mestizo was also born from the conquest, which meant being half-Indigenous and half-Spanish. In today's world \"Mestizo\" has become an umbrella term to those that are non-indigenous, which would include Asian Mexicans and Afro-Mexicans.\n\nMexico City has recently been integrating rapidly, doing much better than many cities in a sample conducted by the Intercultural Cities Index (being the only non-European city, alongside Montreal, on the index). Mexico is an ethnically diverse country with a population composed of approximately 123 million in 2017. There is a wide variety of ethnic groups, the major group being Mestizos followed by Indigenous Mexicans. There are many other ethnic groups such as Arab Mexicans, Afro-Mexicans, Asian Mexicans and White Mexicans.\n\nFrom the year 2000 to 2010, the number of people in Mexico that were born in another country doubled, reaching an amount of 961,121 people. Mostly coming from Guatemala and the United States. Mexico is quickly becoming a melting pot, with many immigrants coming into the country. It is considered to be a cradle of civilization, which influences their multiculturalism and diversity, by having different civilizations influence them. A distinguishable trait of Mexico's culture is the mestizaje of its people, which caused the combination of Spanish influence, their indigenous roots while also adapting the culture traditions from their immigrants.\n\nPeru is an exemplary country of multiculturalism, in 2016 the INEI reported a total population of 31 million people. They share their borders with Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil and Bolivia, and have welcomed many immigrants into their country creating a diverse community.\n\nPeru is the home to Amerindians but after the Spanish Conquest, the Spanish brought African, and Asian people as slaves to Peru creating a mix of ethnic groups. After slavery was no longer permitted in Peru, African-Peruvians and Asian-Peruvians have contributed to Peruvian culture in many ways. Today, Amerindians make up 45% of the population, mestizos 37%, white 15% and 3% is composed by Black, Chinese, and others. In 1821, Peru's president Jose de San Martin gave foreigners the freedom to start industries in Peru's ground, 2 years after, foreigners that lived in Peru for more than 5 years were considered naturalized citizens, which then decreased to 3 years. Which attracted Italians, Portuguese, French and German people in look for some guano for their crops.\n\nIn the United States, multiculturalism is not clearly established in policy at the federal level, but ethnic diversity is common in both rural and urban areas.\n\nContinuous mass immigration was a feature of the United States economy and society since the first half of the 19th century. The absorption of the stream of immigrants became, in itself, a prominent feature of America's national myth. The idea of the melting pot is a metaphor that implies that all the immigrant cultures are mixed and amalgamated without state intervention. The melting pot theory implied that each individual immigrant, and each group of immigrants, assimilated into American society at their own pace. This is different than multiculturalism as defined above, which does not include complete assimilation and integration. An Americanized (and often stereotypical) version of the original nation's cuisine, and its holidays, survived. The melting pot tradition co-exists with a belief in national unity, dating from the American founding fathers:\n\nProvidence has been pleased to give this one connected country to one united people – a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs... This country and this people seem to have been made for each other, and it appears as if it was the design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper and convenient for a band of brethren, united to each other by the strongest ties, should never be split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien sovereignties.\nAs a philosophy, multiculturalism began as part of the pragmatism movement at the end of the nineteenth century in Europe and the United States, then as political and cultural pluralism at the turn of the twentieth. It was partly in response to a new wave of European imperialism in sub-Saharan Africa and the massive immigration of Southern and Eastern Europeans to the United States and Latin America. Philosophers, psychologists and historians and early sociologists such as Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, George Santayana, Horace Kallen, John Dewey, W. E. B. Du Bois and Alain Locke developed concepts of cultural pluralism, from which emerged what we understand today as multiculturalism. In \"Pluralistic Universe\" (1909), William James espoused the idea of a \"plural society.\" James saw pluralism as \"crucial to the formation of philosophical and social humanism to help build a better, more egalitarian society.\n\nThe educational approach to multiculturalism has since spread to the grade school system, as school systems try to rework their curricula to introduce students to diversity earlier – often on the grounds that it is important for minority students to see themselves represented in the classroom. Studies estimated 46 million Americans ages 14 to 24 to be the most diverse generation in American society. In 2009 and 2010, controversy erupted in Texas as the state's curriculum committee made several changes to the state's requirements, often at the expense of minorities. They chose to juxtapose Abraham Lincoln's inaugural address with that of Confederate president Jefferson Davis; they debated removing Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and labor-leader Cesar Chavez and rejected calls to include more Hispanic figures, in spite of the high Hispanic population in the state.\nVenezuela is the home to a variety of ethnic groups, with an estimated population of 32 million. Their population is composed of approximately 68% Mestizo, which means of mixed race. Venezuelan culture is mainly composed by the mixture of their indigenous people, Spanish and African. There was a heavy influence of Spaniard culture due to the Spanish Conquest, which influence their religion, language, traditions. African influence can be seen on their music, with the drum usage. While Spanish is Venezuela's main language, there is more than 40 indigenous languages spoken til this day.\n\nThe European Union is facing unprecedented demographic changes (an aging population, low birth rates, changing family structures and migration). According to the European Commission, it is important, both at EU and national level, to review and adapt existing policies. Following a public debate, a 2006 EU policy paper identified five key policy responses to manage demographic change, among them receiving and integrating migrants into Europe.\n\nHistorically, Europe has always been a mixture of Latin, Slavic, Germanic, Uralic, Celtic, Hellenic, Illyrian, Thracian and other cultures influenced by the importation of Jewish, Christian, Muslim and other belief systems; although the continent was supposedly unified by the super-position of Imperial Roman Christianity, it is accepted that geographic and cultural differences continued from antiquity into the modern age.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the ideology of nationalism transformed the way Europeans thought about the state. Existing states were broken up and new ones created; the new nation-states were founded on the principle that each nation is entitled to its own sovereignty and to engender, protect, and preserve its own unique culture and history. Unity, under this ideology, is seen as an essential feature of the nation and the nation-state; unity of descent, unity of culture, unity of language, and often unity of religion. The nation-state constitutes a culturally homogeneous society, although some national movements recognised regional differences.\n\nWhere cultural unity was insufficient, it was encouraged and enforced by the state. The nineteenth century nation-states developed an array of policies – the most important was compulsory primary education in the national language. The language itself was often standardised by a linguistic academy, and regional languages were ignored or suppressed. Some nation-states pursued violent policies of cultural assimilation and even ethnic cleansing.\n\nSome countries in the European Union have introduced policies for \"social cohesion\", \"integration\", and (sometimes) \"assimilation\". The policies include:\n\n\nOther countries have instituted policies which encourage cultural separation. The concept of \"Cultural exception\" proposed by France in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations in 1993 was an example of a measure aimed at protecting local cultures.\n\nSince its establishment in the seventh century, Bulgaria has hosted many religions, ethnic groups and nations. The capital city Sofia is the only European city that has peacefully functioning, within walking distance of 300 metres, four Places of worship of the major religions: Eastern Orthodox (St Nedelya Church), Islam (Banya Bashi Mosque), Roman Catholicism (St. Joseph Cathedral), and Orthodox Judaism (Sofia Synagogue, the third-largest synagogue in Europe).\n\nThis unique arrangement has been called by historians a \"multicultural cliche\". It has also become known as \"The Square of Religious Tolerance\" and has initiated the construction of a 100-square-metre scale model of the site that is to become a symbol of the capital.\n\nFurthermore, unlike some other Nazi Germany allies or German-occupied countries excluding Denmark, Bulgaria managed to save its entire 48,000-strong Jewish population during World War II from deportation to Nazi concentration camps. According to Dr Marinova-Christidi, the main reason for the efforts of Bulgarian people to save their Jewish population during WWII is that within the region, they \"co-existed for centuries with other religions\" – giving it a unique multicultural and multiethnic history.\n\nConsequently, within the Balkan region, Bulgaria has become an example for multiculturalism in terms of variety of religions, artistic creativity and ethnicity. Its largest ethnic minority groups, Turks and Roma, enjoy wide political representation. In 1984, following a campaign by the Communist regime for a forcible change of the Islamic names of the Turkish minority, an underground organisation called «National Liberation Movement of the Turks in Bulgaria» was formed which headed the Turkish community's opposition movement. On 4 January 1990, the activists of the movement registered an organisation with the legal name «Movement for Rights and Freedom» (MRF) (in Bulgarian: Движение за права и свободи: in Turkish: Hak ve Özgürlükler Hareketi) in the Bulgarian city of Varna. At the moment of registration, it had 33 members, at present, according to the organisation's website, 68,000 members plus 24,000 in the organisation's youth wing . In 2012, Bulgarian Turks were represented at every level of government: local, with MRF having mayors in 35 municipalities, at parliamentary level with MRF having 38 deputies (14% of the votes in Parliamentary elections for 2009–13) and at executive level, where there is one Turkish minister, Vezhdi Rashidov. 21 Roma political organisations were founded between 1997-2003 in Bulgaria.\n\nIn October 2010, Angela Merkel told a meeting of younger members of her centrist Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party at Potsdam, near Berlin, that attempts to build a multicultural society in Germany had \"utterly failed\", stating: \"The concept that we are now living side by side and are happy about it does not work\". She continued to say that immigrants should integrate and adopt Germany's culture and values. This has added to a growing debate within Germany on the levels of immigration, its effect on Germany and the degree to which Muslim immigrants have integrated into German society. The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community of Germany is the first Muslim group to have been granted \"corporation under public law status\", putting the community on par with the major Christian churches and Jewish communities of Germany.\n\nLuxembourg has one of the highest foreign-born populations in Europe, foreigners account for nearly half of the country's total population. The majority of foreigners are from: Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, and Portugal. In total, 170 different nationalities make up the population of Luxembourg, out of this; 86% are of European descent. The official languages of Luxembourg are German, French, and Luxembourgish all of which are supported in the Luxembourg government and education system. In 2005, Luxembourg officially promoted and implemented the objectives of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. This Convention affirms multicultural policies in Luxembourg and creates political awareness of cultural diversity.\n\nMulticulturalism in the Netherlands began with major increases in immigration to the Netherlands during the mid-1950s and 1960s. As a consequence, an official national policy of multiculturalism was adopted in the early-1980s. This policy subsequently gave way to more assimilationist policies in the 1990s. Following the murders of Pim Fortuyn (in 2002) and Theo van Gogh (in 2004) there was increased political debate on the role of multiculturalism in the Netherlands.\n\nLord Sacks, Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth, made a distinction between tolerance and multiculturalism, citing the Netherlands as a tolerant, rather than multicultural, society. In June 2011, the First Rutte cabinet said the Netherlands would turn away from multiculturalism: \"Dutch culture, norms and values must be dominant\" Minister Donner said.\n\nIn Serbia, there are 19 officially recognised ethnic groups with a status of national minorities. Vojvodina is an autonomous province of Serbia, located in the northern part of the country. It has a multiethnic and multicultural identity; there are more than 26 ethnic groups in the province, which has six official languages. Largest ethnic groups in Vojvodina are Serbs (67%), Hungarians (13%), Slovaks, Croats, Romani, Romanians, Montenegrins, Bunjevci, Rusyns.\n\nRadio Television of Vojvodina broadcasts program in ten local languages. The project by the Government of AP Vojvodina titled \"Promotion of Multiculturalism and Tolerance in Vojvodina\", whose primary goal is to foster the cultural diversity and develop the atmosphere of interethnic tolerance among the citizens of Vojvodina, has been successfully implemented since 2005. Serbia is continually working on improving its relationship and inclusion of minorities in its effort to gain full accession to the European Union. Serbia has initiated talks through Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 7 November 2007.\n\nSweden was the first country to adopt an official policy of multiculturalism in Europe. In May 1975, a unanimous Swedish parliament passed an act on a new multiculturalist immigrant and ethnic minority policy put forward by the social democratic government, that explicitly rejected the ideal ethnic homogeneity and the policy of assimilation. The three main principles of the new policy were equality, partnership and freedom of choice. The explicit policy aim of the freedom of choice principle was to create the opportunity for minority groups in Sweden to retain their own languages and cultures. From the mid-1970s, the goal of enabling the preservation of minorities and creating a positive attitude towards the new officially endorsed multicultural society among the majority population became incorporated into the Swedish constitution as well as cultural, educational and media policies. Despite the anti-multiculturalist protestations of the Sweden Democrats, multiculturalism remains official policy in Sweden.\n\nA 2008 study which involved questionnaires sent to 5,000 people, showed that less than a quarter of the respondents (23%) wanted to live in areas characterised by cultural, ethnic and social diversity.\n\nA 2014 study published by Gävle University College showed that 38% of the population never interacted with anyone from Africa and 20% never interacted with any non-Europeans. The study concluded that while physical distance to the country of origin, also religion and other cultural expressions are significant for the perception of cultural familiarity. In general, peoples with Christianity as the dominant religion were perceived to be culturally closer than peoples from Muslim countries.\n\nA 2017 study by Lund University also found that social trust was lower among people in regions with high levels of past non-Nordic immigration than among people in regions with low levels of past immigration. The erosive effect on trust was more pronounced for immigration from culturally distant countries.\n\nMulticultural policies were adopted by local administrations from the 1970s and 1980s onwards. In 1997, the newly elected Labour government committed to a multiculturalist approach at a national level, but after 2001, there was something of a backlash, led by centre-left commentators such as David Goodhart and Trevor Phillips. The Government then embraced a policy of community cohesion instead. In 2011, Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron said in a speech that \"state multiculturalism has failed\".\n\nMulticulturalism has been a characteristic feature of the island of Mauritius. This is mainly because of colonization that has been present from, the English, the French, and the Dutch. However, the Mauritian society includes people from many different ethnic and religious groups: Hindu, Muslim and Indo-Mauritians, Mauritian Creoles (of African and Malagasy descent), Buddhist and Roman Catholic Sino-Mauritians and Franco-Mauritians (descendants of the original French colonists). Mauritius has embraced intertwining of cultures from the origin of the country, and has coined the term fruit-salad, which is a much more appealing term in comparison to melting-pot showing that they were not forced to these cultures.\n\nAccording to the 1961 Census of India, there are 1652 indigenous languages in the country. The culture of India has been shaped by its long history, unique geography and diverse demography. India's languages, religions, dance, music, architecture and customs differ from place to place within the country, but nevertheless possess a commonality. The culture of India is an amalgamation of these diverse sub-cultures spread all over the Indian subcontinent and traditions that are several millennia old. The previously prevalent Indian caste system describes the social stratification and social restrictions in the Indian subcontinent, in which social classes are defined by thousands of endogamous hereditary groups, often termed \"jātis\" or castes.\n\nReligiously, Hindus form the majority, followed by Muslims. The statistics are: Hindu (80.5%), Muslim (13.4%), Christian (2.3%), Sikh (2.1%), Buddhist, Bahá'í, Jain, Jew and Parsi populations. Linguistically, the two main language families in India are Indo-Aryan (a branch of Indo-European) and Dravidian. In India's northeast, people speaking Sino-Tibetan group of languages such as Meitei (Meitei-lon) recognized by the Indian constitution and Austroasiatic languages are commonly found. India (officially) follows a three-language policy. Hindi (spoken in the form of Hindustani) is the official federal language, English has the federal status of associate/subsidiary official language and each state has its own state official language (in the Hindi \"sprachraum\", this reduces to bilingualism). Further, India does not have any national language. The Republic of India's state boundaries are largely drawn based on linguistic groups; this decision led to the preservation and continuation of local ethno-linguistic sub-cultures, except for the Hindi \"sprachraum\" which is itself divided into many states. Thus, most states differ from one another in language, culture, cuisine, clothing, literary style, architecture, music and festivities.\n\nIndia has encountered religiously motivated violence, such as the Moplah Riots, the Bombay riots, the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots, the 2012 Assam violence, and the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. This has resulted from traditionally disadvantaged communities in public employment such as the policing of the same locality, apprehension of owners in giving properties for sale or rent and of society in accepting inter-marriages.\n\nPluralism, diversity and multiculturalism is a daily fact of life in Indonesia. There are over 300 ethnic groups in Indonesia. 95% of those are of Native Indonesian ancestry. The Javanese are the largest ethnic group in Indonesia who make up nearly 42% of the total population. The Sundanese, Malay, and Madurese are the next largest groups in the country. There are also more than 700 living languages spoken in Indonesia and although predominantly Muslim the country also has large Christian and Hindu populations.\n\nIndonesia's national motto, \"Bhinneka Tunggal Ika\" (\"Unity in Diversity\" lit. \"many, yet one\") enshrined in Pancasila the national ideology, articulates the diversity that shapes the country. The government nurtures and promotes the diversity of Indonesian local culture; adopting a pluralist approach.\n\nDue to migration within Indonesia (as part of government transmigration programs or otherwise), there are significant populations of ethnic groups who reside outside of their traditional regions. The Javanese for example, moved from their traditional homeland in Java to the other parts of the archipelago. The expansion of the Javanese and their influence throughout Indonesia has raised the issue of Javanization, although Minangkabau, Malay, Madurese, Bugis and Makassar people, as a result of their \"merantau\" (migrating) culture are also quite widely distributed throughout the Indonesian archipelago, while Chinese Indonesians can be found in most urban areas. Because of urbanization, major Indonesian cities such as Greater Jakarta, Surabaya, Bandung, Palembang, Medan and Makassar have attracted large numbers of Indonesians from various ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds. Jakarta in particular has almost all Indonesian ethnic groups represented.\n\nHowever, this transmigration program and close interactions between people of different cultural backgrounds caused socio-cultural problems, as the inter-ethnics interactions have not always been conducted harmoniously. After the fall of Suharto in 1998 into the 2000s, numbers of inter-ethnic and inter-religious clashes erupted in Indonesia. Like the clashes between native Dayak tribes against Madurese transmigrants in Kalimantan during Sambas riots in 1999 and the Sampit conflict in 2001. There were also clashes between Muslims and Christians, such as violence erupted in Poso between 1998 and into 2000, and violences in Maluku between 1999 and into 2002. Nevertheless, Indonesia today still struggles and has managed to maintain unity and inter-cultural harmony, through a national adherence of pro-pluralism policy of Pancasila; promoted and enforced by the government and its people.\n\nChinese Indonesians are the largest foreign-origin minority that has resided in Indonesia for generations. Despite centuries of acculturation with native Indonesians, because of their disproportionate influence on Indonesian economy, and alleged question of national loyalty, Chinese Indonesians have suffered discrimination. The Suharto \"Orde Baru\" or New Order adopted a forced assimilation policy; which indicated that Chinese cultural elements were unacceptable. Chinese Indonesians were forced to adopt Indonesian-sounding names, and the use of Chinese culture and language was banned. The violence targeting Chinese Indonesians erupted during riots in 1998. As the looting and destruction took place, a number of Chinese Indonesians, as well as looters, were killed. The Chinese Indonesians were treated as the scapegoat of 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, a result of ongoing discrimination and segregation policies enforced during Suharto's New Order regime. Soon after the fourth Indonesian President, Abdurrahman Wahid came into power in 1999, he quickly abolished some of the discriminatory laws in efforts to promote acceptance and to improve inter-racial relationships, such as abolishing the ban on Chinese culture; allowing Chinese traditions to be practised freely. Two years later President Megawati Sukarnoputri declared that the Chinese New Year (\"\") would be marked as a national holiday from 2003. Today, Chinese Indonesians enjoy the same rights as other Indonesians.\n\nJapanese society, with its ideology of homogeneity, has traditionally rejected any need to recognize ethnic differences in Japan, even as such claims have been rejected by such ethnic minorities as the Ainu and Ryukyuan people. In 2005, former Japanese Prime Minister and current Japanese Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso described Japan as a \"one civilization, one language, one culture and one race\" nation. However, there are \"International Society\" NPOs funded by local governments throughout Japan.\n\nAccording to Harvard University professor Theodore Bestor, Japan does look very homogeneous from a distant perspective, but in fact there are a number of very significant minority groups – ethnically different minority groups – in Japan today, such as the already mentioned Ainu and Ryukyuan people.\n\nKazakhstan is among the most multicultural countries in Eurasia, with sizeable populations of ethnic Kazakhs, Russians, Uzbeks, Ukrainians, Uighurs, Tatars, Germans and more. Kazakhstan is one of a few countries in post-Soviet territories that managed to avoid interethnic clashes and conflicts in the period of USSR’s final crisis and its eventual breakup. In 1995, Kazakhstan created the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, an advisory body designed to represent the country's ethnic minorities.\n\nMalaysia is a multiethnic country, with Malays making up the majority, close to 58% of the population. About 25% of the population are Malaysians of Chinese descent. Malaysians of Indian descent comprise about 7% of the population. The remaining 10% comprises:\n\nThe Malaysian New Economic Policy or NEP serves as a form of racial equalization. It promotes structural changes in various aspects of life from education to economic to social integration. Established after the 13 May racial riots of 1969, it sought to address the significant imbalance in the economic sphere where the minority Chinese population had substantial control over commercial activity in the country.\n\nThe Malay Peninsula has a long history of international trade contacts, influencing its ethnic and religious composition. Predominantly Malays before the 18th century, the ethnic composition changed dramatically when the British introduced new industries, and imported Chinese and Indian labor. Several regions in the then British Malaya such as Penang, Malacca and Singapore became Chinese dominated. Until the riots 1969, co-existence between the three ethnicities (and other minor groups) was largely peaceful, although the three main racial groups for the most part lived in separate communities – the Malays in the villages, the Chinese in the urban areas, and the Indians in the towns and plantation. More Malays however have moved into the cities since the 1970s, and the proportion of the non-Malays have been decreasing continually, especially the Chinese, due in large part to lower birth-rate and emigration as a result of institutionalized discrimination.\n\nPreceding independence of the Federation of Malaya, a social contract was negotiated as the basis of a new society. The contract as reflected in the 1957 Malayan Constitution and the 1963 Malaysian Constitution states that the immigrant groups are granted citizenship, and Malays' special rights are guaranteed. This is often referred to the Bumiputra policy.\n\nThese pluralist policies have come under pressure from racialist Malay parties, who oppose perceived subversion of Malay rights. The issue is sometimes related to the controversial status of religious freedom in Malaysia.\n\nBecause of immigration, Singapore has a Chinese majority population with significant minority populations of Malays and Indians (predominantly Tamils). Other prominent smaller groups include Peranakans and Eurasians. Besides English, Singapore recognizes three other languages—Malay, Mandarin Chinese and Tamil. English was established as the medium of instruction in schools during the 1960s and 1970s and is the language of trade and government while the other three languages are taught as second languages (\"mother tongues\"). Besides being a multilingual country, Singapore also acknowledges festivals celebrated by the three main ethnic communities.\n\nDuring British colonial rule, ethnic enclaves such as Geylang, Chinatown, and Little India were enforced. Presently , remnants of colonial ethnic concentration still exist but housing in Singapore is governed by the Ethnic Integration Policy, which ensures an even ethnic distribution throughout Singapore. A similar policy exists in politics as all Group Representation Constituencies are required to field at least one candidate from an ethnic minority.\n\nSouth Korea remains a relatively homogenous country ethnically, linguistically, and culturally. Foreigners, expatriates, and immigrants are often rejected by the mainstream South Korean society and face discrimination.\n\nHowever, the word \"multiculturalism\" is increasingly heard in South Korea. In 2007, Han Geon-Soo, Professor of Cultural Anthropology at Kangwon National University, published an article entitled \"Multicultural Korea: Celebration or Challenge of Multiethnic Shift in Contemporary Korea?\", noting: \"As the increase of foreign migrants in [South] Korea transforms a single-ethnic homogeneous [South] Korean society into multiethnic and multicultural one, [the South] Korean government and the civil society pay close attention to multiculturalism as an alternative value to their policy and social movement.\" He argued, however, that \"the current discourses and concerns on multiculturalism in [South] Korea\" lacked \"the constructive and analytical concepts for transforming a society\".\n\nThe same year, Stephen Castles of the International Migration Institute argued:\n\nThe \"Korea Times\" suggested in 2009 that South Korea was likely to become a multicultural society. In 2010, an opinion editorial written by Peter Underwood for the \"JoongAng Ilbo\" stated: \"Media in [South] Korea is abuzz with the new era of multiculturalism. With more than one million foreigners in [South] Korea, 2 percent of the population comes from other cultures.\" He further opined:\n\nTurkey is a country that borders both Europe and Asia, therefore placing it as the multicultural intersection for Eurasia – thus including people of Armenian, Jewish, Kurds, Arabs, Turks, and Persians decent. This entail influence of Hindu, Jewish, and Muslim influence leaving Turkey to be a multicultural country based on location. In recent years there has been an increase of diversity acceptance in Turkey, mainly because there was fear of losing values of the non-existent Ottoman Empire. However, just after the turn of the century, Turkey has embraced its multicultural location and has even began to influence other countries. With Turkey having roots of Islam they have been provided a path for Islam to be accepted into neighboring countries in Europe.\n\nSouth Africa is the fifth-most populous country and one of the most developed countries in Africa. South Africa also officially recognises 11 languages including English, making it third behind Bolivia and India in most official languages. The three most common languages are Zulu, Xhosa, and Afrikaans. Though South Africa's cultural traditions may decline as it becomes more and more Westernised, it is still known for its diverse culture.\n\nOfficially known as the Republic of Cameroon, Cameroon is found in central Africa consisting of a diverse geographical and cultural area that makes it one of the most diverse countries known today. Ranging from mountains, deserts, and rainforests, to coast-lands and savanna grasslands, its diverse geography makes a large diverse population possible. This diverse geography resembles Africa as a whole and due to this, most people commonly label Cameroon as “Africa in Miniature”. Americas\n\nBefore Cameroon’s independence, it was under British and French colonial rule from 1916-1961. Upon gaining sovereignty, a major colonial influence was evident, having both English and French become the national language to roughly 25,000,000 Cameroonian residents. Apart from these two major languages, a new language consisting of a mixture of French, English, and Pidgin known as Frananglais gained popularity among Cameroonian residents.\n\nAlthough these three languages are the most common in Cameroon, there are still approximately 273 indigenous languages being spoken throughout the country, making it not only culturally diverse but linguistically as well. Among those who speak these indigenous languages are people from Bantu, Sudanic, Baka, Wodaabe (or Mbororo) and even primitive hunter-gatherer groups known as Pygmies.\n\nAlthough native to Cameroonian land, they faced constant discrimination much like other indigenous groups around the world. The United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) adopted the United Nations' Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) in 2007. What this allowed was the protection of land and resource rights and prevented others from exploiting or violating them. In 2016, a group of indigenous Baka and Bagyeli groups united to form Gbabandi. Gbabandi allowed these indigenous groups to have a form of representation and a declared list of requirements that people of Cameroon had to abide by. Among these requirements were guaranteed land rights, peoples' consent to the usage of their sacred land, traditional chiefs and the ability to participate in \"local, regional, and national levels\" of political and economic matters. As a result, this established a sense of justice and acknowledgment among indigenous groups in Cameroon and posed for future battles for indigenous peoples' rights.\n\nMorocco is located in Northern Africa near the Mediterranean Sea, which then connects to Europe. Morocco is a prime location for a multiculturalism, as it has much influence by neighbouring countries. Morocco has been invaded and colonised by many countries throughout the centuries, which means that they have experienced an influence of many cultures. Some of these invaders include the French, the Spaniards, the Arabs, and several more countries. This has led to the country becoming not only multicultural, but also multilingual. Officially the language of Morocco is Arabic, but throughout the country many people speak, French, Spanish, Arabic, and most recently acknowledging Berber as a language. There has been much outside influence of multiculturalism in Morocco, but they have embraced these cultures.\n\nThe next country to adopt an official policy of multiculturalism after Canada was Australia, a country with similar immigration situations and similar policies, for example the formation of the Special Broadcasting Service. The Australian government retains multiculturalism in policy, and as a defining aspect of Australia today.\nThe White Australia Policy was quietly dismantled after World War II by various changes to immigration policy, although the official policy of multiculturalism was not formally introduced until 1972. The election of John Howard's Liberal-National Coalition government in 1996 was a major watershed for Australian multiculturalism. Howard had long been a critic of multiculturalism, releasing his One Australia policy in the late 1980s. A Practical Reference to Religious Diversity for Operational Police and Emergency Services was a publication of the Australasian Police Multicultural Advisory Bureau designed to offer guidance to police and emergency services personnel on how religious affiliation can affect their contact with the public. The first edition was published in 1999. The first edition covered Buddhist, Hindu, Islamic, Jewish and Sikh faiths with participation of representatives of the various religions. The second edition added Christian, Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander religions and the Bahá'í Faith to the list of religions was published in 2002.\n\nContact between people of different cultures in Australia has been characterised by tolerance and engagement, but have also occasionally resulted in conflict and rifts.\n\nAustralia's diverse migrant communities have brought with them food, lifestyle and cultural practices, which have been absorbed into mainstream Australian culture.\n\nNew Zealand is a sovereign Oceanic country that adopted its multicultural policies post World War II. The country used to have immigration policies similar to Australia's White Australia Policy, but it would later follow suit with Australia in the 1970s and adopt similar multicultural policies. The relaxation of migration led to an influx of new migration to New Zealand in the 1980s. This led to an increase of Asian and Pacific islander peoples on the island, and ultimately a more diverse European population. In 1985 the Law Commission Act was passed which required the New Zealand Law Commission to review laws while taking into account both the indigenous Māori of New Zealand and New Zealand's multicultural character. In 2001 the New Zealand government opened an Office of Ethnic Affairs to advise its local governments on the advancement of ethnic diversity and affairs of its multicultural communities. In 1987 New Zealand officially recognized the indigenous Māori language as a national language. The revitalization in the Māori language led to its immersion in schools and television broadcast. Many landmarks on the island have both their Māori and English names officially recognized. Māori makes up 3.7% of the populations speaking language. A 2013 census of New Zealand's population showed that 74% of the population identifies ethnically as European, while the latter 15% majority identify as Māori. The remainder identify as Asian, and Pacific islander.\n\nPapua New Guinea is one of the most multicultural countries in the world. This Oceanian country is home to over eight million people that are divided into hundreds of different indigenous ethnic groups and cultures with over 820 different indigenous languages. A majority of the indigenous groups are Papuans who have ancestors that lived in New Guinea over ten thousand years ago. The latter majority are Austronesians whose ancestors arrived less than four thousand years ago. The island's population is also made up of many expatriate citizens from China, Australia, Indonesia, Europe and the Philippines. In 1975 the island population was found to be made up of 40,000 of these diverse expatriate citizens. Despite the large amount of culturally diverse locations on the island, the Kuk Early Agricultural Site is the only UNESCO World heritage location.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15979557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15979557", "title": "NAFTA superhighway", "text": "NAFTA superhighway\n\nThe NAFTA superhighway is a term sometimes used informally to refer to certain existing and proposed highways intended to link Canada, Mexico, and the United States. Although the term has not been used publicly by governments in an official policy context, there are some dissident beliefs about this appellation that are associated with conspiracy theories regarding alleged secret plans to undermine U.S. sovereignty. Development of these routes is supported by the North American SuperCorridor Coalition as part of a NASCO Corridor. These include Interstate 35 from Laredo, Texas to the Canadian border that downgrades to a non-freeway route ending at Thunder Bay, Ontario, and Interstate 29, a spur that also downgrades to a regular highway at the border and continues to Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nThe term is also sometimes used to describe some additional partly-built or proposed highways and supercorridors which are intended to connect the road systems of the three nations of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) trade bloc. One of these is Interstate 69 that is mostly complete from the Canada–US border at Port Huron, Michigan to western Kentucky. In Canada, Ontario Highway 402 and other freeways in the Windsor-Quebec City Corridor can be considered a northeastward extension of this version the NAFTA superhighway. To the southwest, from western Kentucky to the Mexican border, there is currently no single superhighway yet completed. Pending completion of I-69, the main highway links to Mexico follow parts of US routes 45 and 51 from Kentucky to western Tennessee, I-155 from Tennessee to Missouri, parts of Interstates 55 and 40 from Missouri to Arkansas, and I-30 from Arkansas to the Texas stretch of I-35 that continues south to the Mexican border at Laredo, Texas. The uncompleted section of I-69 south of Kentucky is expected to eventually continue southwestward to the Texas Gulf Coast. It will have a spur linking to the original Pan-American route through Mexico to Laredo, and additional branches extending to the Mexican spurs that cross the border at Pharr, Texas, and Brownsville, Texas.\n\nThe CANAMEX Corridor is another major route that links the three NAFTA countries. It includes Mexican Federal Highway 15, American I-19 and I-15, and Alberta highway 2. The route is sometimes referenced as part of the NAFTA superhighway concept, but it already has a name of its own. Interstate 94 is an important east-west freeway that indirectly links the CANAMEX Corridor with the I-29 and I-35 routes of the 'NAFTA Superhighway' and the Windsor-Quebec City Corridor. The Canadian route links with the I-69 and I-94 freeways at the same Port Huron border crossing.\n\n"}
{"id": "36606930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36606930", "title": "Nguyễn Dữ", "text": "Nguyễn Dữ\n\nNguyễn Dư (chữ Hán: 阮餘), also called Nguyễn Dữ (阮與), was a 16th-century Han Tu poet of Vietnam known for the Truyền kỳ mạn lục (傳奇漫錄, \"Collection of Strange Tales\"). \n\nNguyễn Dữ was born in Đỗ Tùng village, Gia Phúc district, Hải Dương province, Việt Nam. He was a student of Nguyễn Bỉnh Khiêm (1491-1585), a well-known Vietnamese educator, philosopher, and poet. \n\nTruyền kỳ mạn lục was his only publication.\n"}
{"id": "414218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414218", "title": "Paul Tillich", "text": "Paul Tillich\n\nPaul Johannes Tillich (August 20, 1886 – October 22, 1965) was a German-American Christian existentialist philosopher and Lutheran Protestant theologian who is widely regarded as one of the most influential theologians of the twentieth century.\n\nAmong the general public, he is best known for his works \"The Courage to Be\" (1952) and \"Dynamics of Faith\" (1957), which introduced issues of theology and modern culture to a general readership. In academic theology, he is best known for his major three-volume work \"Systematic Theology\" (1951–63) in which he developed his \"method of correlation\", an approach of exploring the symbols of Christian revelation as answers to the problems of human existence raised by contemporary existential philosophical analysis.\n\nTillich was born on August 20, 1886, in the small village of Starzeddel (Starosiedle), Province of Brandenburg, which was then part of Germany. He was the oldest of three children, with two sisters: Johanna (born 1888, died 1920) and Elisabeth (born 1893). Tillich's Prussian father Johannes Tillich was a conservative Lutheran pastor of the Evangelical State Church of Prussia's older Provinces; his mother Mathilde Dürselen was from the Rhineland and more liberal.\n\nWhen Tillich was four, his father became superintendent of a diocese in Bad Schönfliess (now Trzcińsko-Zdrój, Poland), a town of three thousand, where Tillich began secondary school (\"\"). In 1898, Tillich was sent to Königsberg in der Neumark (now Chojna, Poland) to begin his \"gymnasium\" schooling. He was billeted in a boarding house and experienced a loneliness that he sought to overcome by reading the Bible while encountering humanistic ideas at school.\n\nIn 1900, Tillich's father was transferred to Berlin, resulting in Tillich switching in 1901 to a Berlin school, from which he graduated in 1904. Before his graduation, however, his mother died of cancer in September 1903, when Tillich was 17. Tillich attended several universities — the University of Berlin beginning in 1904, the University of Tübingen in 1905, and the University of Halle-Wittenberg from 1905 to 1907. He received his Doctor of Philosophy degree at the University of Breslau in 1911 and his Licentiate of Theology degree at Halle-Wittenberg in 1912. During his time at university, he became a member of the Wingolf in Berlin, Tübingen and Halle.\n\nThat same year, 1912, Tillich was ordained as a Lutheran minister in the Province of Brandenburg. On 28 September 1914 he married Margarethe (\"Grethi\") Wever (1888–1968), and in October he joined the Imperial German Army as a chaplain during World War I. Grethi deserted Tillich in 1919 after an affair that produced a child not fathered by Tillich; the two then divorced. Tillich's academic career began after the war; he became a Privatdozent of Theology at the University of Berlin, a post he held from 1919 to 1924. On his return from the war he had met Hannah Werner-Gottschow, then married and pregnant. In March 1924 they married; it was the second marriage for both. She later wrote a book entitled \"From Time to Time\" about their life together, which included their commitment to open marriage, upsetting to some; despite this, they remained together into old age.\n\nFrom 1924 to 1925, Tillich served as a Professor of Theology at the University of Marburg, where he began to develop his systematic theology, teaching a course on it during the last of his three terms. From 1925 until 1929, Tillich was a Professor of Theology at the Dresden University of Technology and the University of Leipzig. He held the same post at the University of Frankfurt from 1929 to 1933. Paul Tillich was in conversation with Erich Przywara.\n\nWhile at the University of Frankfurt, Tillich gave public lectures and speeches throughout Germany that brought him into conflict with the Nazi movement. When Adolf Hitler became German Chancellor in 1933, Tillich was dismissed from his position. Reinhold Niebuhr visited Germany in the summer of 1933 and, already impressed with Tillich's writings, contacted Tillich upon learning of his dismissal. Niebuhr urged Tillich to join the faculty at New York City's Union Theological Seminary; Tillich accepted.\n\nAt the age of 47, Tillich moved with his family to the United States. This meant learning English, the language in which Tillich would eventually publish works such as the \"Systematic Theology\". From 1933 until 1955 he taught at Union Theological Seminary, where he began as a Visiting Professor of Philosophy of Religion. During 1933–34 he was also a Visiting Lecturer in Philosophy at Columbia University.\n\nThe Fellowship of Socialist Christians was organized in the early 1930s by Reinhold Niebuhr and others with similar views.\nLater it changed its name to Frontier Fellowship and then to Christian Action.\nThe main supporters of the Fellowship in the early days included Tillich, Eduard Heimann, Sherwood Eddy and Rose Terlin. \nIn its early days the group thought capitalist individualism was incompatible with Christian ethics.\nAlthough not Communist, the group acknowledged Karl Marx's social philosophy.\nTillich acquired tenure at the Union Theological Seminary in 1937, and in 1940 he was promoted to Professor of Philosophical Theology and became an American citizen.\nAt Union, Tillich earned his reputation, publishing a series of books that outlined his particular synthesis of Protestant Christian theology and existential philosophy. He published \"On the Boundary\" in 1936; \"The Protestant Era\", a collection of his essays, in 1948; and \"The Shaking of the Foundations\", the first of three volumes of his sermons, also in 1948. His collections of sermons would give Tillich a broader audience than he had yet experienced.\n\nHis most heralded achievements though, were the 1951 publication of volume one of \"Systematic Theology\" which brought Tillich academic acclaim, and the 1952 publication of \"The Courage to Be\". The first volume of the systematic theology series prompted an invitation to give the prestigious Gifford lectures during 1953–54 at the University of Aberdeen. The latter book, called \"his masterpiece\", was based on his 1950 Dwight H. Terry Lectureship and reached a wide general readership.\n\nThese works led to an appointment at the Harvard Divinity School in 1955, where he became one of the University's five University Professors – the five highest ranking professors at Harvard. He was primarily a professor of undergraduates because Harvard did not have a department of religion for them, but thereby he was more exposed to the wider University and \"most fully embodied the ideal of a University Professor.\"\n\nIn 1961 Tillich became one of the founding members of the Society for the Arts, Religion and Contemporary Culture, an organization with which he maintained ties for the remainder of his life. During this period, he published volume 2 of \"Systematic Theology\" and also the popular book \"Dynamics of Faith\" (both 1957). His career at Harvard lasted until 1962 when he moved to the University of Chicago, remaining a professor of theology there until his death in 1965.\n\nVolume 3 of \"Systematic Theology\" was published in 1963. In 1964, Tillich became the first theologian to be honored in Kegley and Bretall's \"Library of Living Theology\": \"The adjective 'great,' in our opinion, can be applied to very few thinkers of our time, but Tillich, we are far from alone in believing, stands unquestionably amongst these few\". A widely quoted critical assessment of his importance was Georgia Harkness' comment: \"What Whitehead was to American philosophy, Tillich has been to American theology\".\n\nTillich died on October 22, 1965, ten days after having a heart attack. In 1966, his ashes were interred in the Paul Tillich Park in New Harmony, Indiana. Gravestone inscription : \"And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit for his season, his leaf also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.\"\n\nThe key to understanding Tillich's theology is what he calls the \"method of correlation.\" It is an approach that correlates insights from Christian revelation with the issues raised by existential, psychological, and philosophical analysis.\n\nTillich states in the introduction to the \"Systematic Theology\":\n\nFor Tillich, the existential questions of human existence are associated with the field of philosophy and, more specifically, ontology (the study of being). This is because, according to Tillich, a lifelong pursuit of philosophy reveals that the central question of every philosophical inquiry always comes back to the question of being, or what it means to be, to exist, to be a finite human being. To be correlated with these questions are the theological answers, themselves derived from Christian revelation. The task of the philosopher primarily involves developing the questions, whereas the task of the theologian primarily involves developing the answers to these questions. However, it should be remembered that the two tasks overlap and include one another: the theologian must be somewhat of a philosopher and vice versa, for Tillich's notion of faith as \"ultimate concern\" necessitates that the theological answer be correlated with, compatible with, and in response to the general ontological question which must be developed independently from the answers. Thus, on one side of the correlation lies an ontological analysis of the human situation, whereas on the other is a presentation of the Christian message as a response to this existential dilemma. For Tillich, no formulation of the question can contradict the theological answer. This is because the Christian message claims, \"a priori\", that the \"logos\" \"who became flesh\" is also the universal \"logos\" of the Greeks.\n\nIn addition to the intimate relationship between philosophy and theology, another important aspect of the method of correlation is Tillich's distinction between form and content in the theological answers. While the nature of revelation determines the actual content of the theological answers, the character of the questions determines the form of these answers. This is because, for Tillich, theology must be an answering theology, or apologetic theology. God is called the \"ground of being\" because God is the answer to the ontological threat of non-being, and this characterization of the theological answer in philosophical terms means that the answer has been conditioned (insofar as its form is considered) by the question. Throughout the \"Systematic Theology\", Tillich is careful to maintain this distinction between form and content without allowing one to be inadvertently conditioned by the other. Many criticisms of Tillich's methodology revolve around this issue of whether the integrity of the Christian message is really maintained when its form is conditioned by philosophy.\n\nThe theological answer is also determined by the sources of theology, our experience, and the norm of theology. Though the form of the theological answers are determined by the character of the question, these answers (which \"are contained in the revelatory events on which Christianity is based\") are also \"taken by systematic theology from the sources, through the medium, under the norm.\" There are three main sources of systematic theology: the Bible, Church history, and the history of religion and culture. Experience is not a source but a medium through which the sources speak. And the norm of theology is that by which both sources and experience are judged with regard to the content of the Christian faith. Thus, we have the following as elements of the method and structure of systematic theology:\n\n\nAs McKelway explains, the sources of theology contribute to the formation of the norm, which then becomes the criterion through which the sources and experience are judged. The relationship is circular, as it is the present situation which conditions the norm in the interaction between church and biblical message. The norm is then subject to change, but Tillich insists that its basic content remains the same: that of the biblical message. It is tempting to conflate revelation with the norm, but we must keep in mind that revelation (whether original or dependent) is not an element of the structure of systematic theology per se, but an event. For Tillich, the present-day norm is the \"New Being in Jesus as the Christ as our Ultimate Concern\". This is because the present question is one of estrangement, and the overcoming of this estrangement is what Tillich calls the \"New Being\". But since Christianity answers the question of estrangement with \"Jesus as the Christ\", the norm tells us that we find the New Being in Jesus as the Christ.\n\nThere is also the question of the validity of the method of correlation. Certainly one could reject the method on the grounds that there is no \"a priori\" reason for its adoption. But Tillich claims that the method of any theology and its system are interdependent. That is, an absolute methodological approach cannot be adopted because the method is continually being determined by the system and the objects of theology.\n\nTillich used the concept of \"being\" (\"Sein\") in systematic theology. There are three roles:\n\nThis is part four of Tillich's \"Systematic Theology\". In this part, Tillich talks about life and the divine Spirit.\n\nTillich stated the courage to take meaninglessness into oneself presupposes a relation to the ground of being: absolute faith. Absolute faith can transcend the theistic idea of God, and has three elements.\n\nAccording to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", Tillich believes the essence of religious attitudes is what he calls \"ultimate concern\". Separate from all profane and ordinary realities, the object of the concern is understood as sacred, numinous or holy. The perception of its reality is felt as so overwhelming and valuable that all else seems insignificant, and for this reason requires total surrender. In 1957, Tillich defined his conception of faith more explicitly in his work, \"Dynamics of Faith\".\n\nTillich further refined his conception of faith by stating that, \"Faith as ultimate concern is an act of the total personality. It is the most centered act of the human mind ... it participates in the dynamics of personal life.\"\n\nAn arguably central component of Tillich's concept of faith is his notion that faith is \"ecstatic\". That is to say:\n\nIn short, for Tillich, faith does not stand opposed to rational or nonrational elements (reason and emotion respectively), as some philosophers would maintain. Rather, it \"transcends\" them in an ecstatic passion for the ultimate.\n\nIt should also be noted that Tillich does not exclude atheists in his exposition of faith. Everyone has an ultimate concern, and this concern can be in an act of faith, \"even if the act of faith includes the denial of God. Where there is ultimate concern, God can be denied only in the name of God\"\n\nThroughout most of his works Paul Tillich provides an apologetic and alternative ontological view of God. Traditional medieval philosophical theology in the work of figures such as St. Anselm, Duns Scotus, and William of Ockham tended to understand God as the highest existing Being, to which predicates such as omnipotence, omniscience, omnipresence, goodness, righteousness, holiness, etc. may be ascribed. Arguments for and against the existence of God presuppose such an understanding of God. Tillich is critical of this mode of discourse which he refers to as \"theological theism,\" and argues that if God is Being [das Seiende], even if the highest Being, God cannot be properly called the source of all being, and the question can of course then be posed as to why God exists, who created God, when God's beginning is, and so on. To put the issue in traditional language: if God is 'being' [das Seiende], then God is a creature, even if the highest one, and thus cannot be the Creator. Rather, God must be understood as the \"ground of Being-Itself\".\n\nThe problem persists in the same way when attempting to determine whether God is an eternal essence, or an existing being, neither of which are adequate, as traditional theology was well aware. When God is understood in this way, it becomes clear that not only is it impossible to argue for the \"existence\" of God, since God is beyond the distinction between essence and existence, but it is also foolish: one cannot deny that there is being, and thus there is a Power of Being. The question then becomes whether and in what way personal language about God and humanity's relationship to God is appropriate. In distinction to \"theological theism\", Tillich refers to another kind of theism as that of the \"divine-human encounter\". Such is the theism of the encounter with the \"Wholly Other\" (\"Das ganz Andere\"), as in the work of Karl Barth and Rudolf Otto, and implies a personalism with regard to God's self-revelation. Tillich is quite clear that this is both appropriate and necessary, as it is the basis of the personalism of Biblical Religion altogether and the concept of the \"Word of God\", but can become falsified if the theologian tries to turn such encounters with God as the Wholly Other into an understanding of God as a being. In other words, God is both personal and transpersonal.\n\nTillich's ontological view of God has precedent in Christian theology. Many theologians, especially those in the Hellenistic or Patristic period of Christianity's history that corresponds with the Church Fathers, understood God as the \"unoriginate source\" (agennetos) of all being. This view was espoused in particular by Origen, one of a number of early theologians whose thought influenced that of Tillich. Their views in turn had pre-Christian precedents in middle Platonism.\n\nTillich further argues that theological theism is not only logically problematic, but is unable to speak into the situation of radical doubt and despair about meaning in life. This issue, he said, was of primary concern in the modern age, as opposed to anxiety about fate, guilt, death and condemnation. This is because the state of finitude entails by necessity anxiety, and that it is our finitude as human beings, our being a mixture of being and nonbeing, that is at the ultimate basis of anxiety. If God is not the ground of being itself, then God cannot provide an answer to the question of finitude; God would also be finite in some sense. The term \"God Above God,\" then, means to indicate the God who appears, who is the ground of being itself, when the \"God\" of theological theism has disappeared in the anxiety of doubt. While on the one hand this God goes beyond the God of theism as usually defined, it finds expression in many religious symbols of the Christian faith, particularly that of the crucified Christ. The possibility thus exists, says Tillich, that religious symbols may be recovered which would otherwise have been rendered ineffective by contemporary society.\n\nTillich argues that the God of theological theism is at the root of much revolt against theism and religious faith in the modern period. Tillich states, sympathetically, that the God of theological theism \n\nAnother reason Tillich criticized theological theism was because it placed God into the subject-object dichotomy. This is the basic distinction made in Epistemology, that branch of Philosophy which deals with human knowledge, how it is possible, what it is, and its limits. \"Epistemologically\", God cannot be made into an object, that is, an object of the knowing subject. Tillich deals with this question under the rubric of the relationality of God. The question is \"whether there are external relations between God and the creature\". Traditionally Christian theology has always understood the doctrine of creation to mean precisely this external relationality between God, the Creator, and the creature as separate and not identical realities. Tillich reminds us of the point, which can be found in Luther, that \"there is no place to which man can withdraw from the divine thou, because it includes the ego and is nearer to the ego than the ego to itself\".\n\nTillich goes further to say that the desire to draw God into the subject–object dichotomy is an \"insult\" to the divine holiness. Similarly, if God were made into the subject rather than the object of knowledge (The Ultimate Subject), then the rest of existing entities then become subjected to the absolute knowledge and scrutiny of God, and the human being is \"reified,\" or made into a mere object. It would deprive the person of his or her own subjectivity and creativity. According to Tillich, theological theism has provoked the rebellions found in atheism and Existentialism, although other social factors such as the industrial revolution have also contributed to the \"reification\" of the human being. The modern man could no longer tolerate the idea of being an \"object\" completely subjected to the absolute knowledge of God. Tillich argued, as mentioned, that theological theism is \"bad theology\".\nAlternatively, Tillich presents the above-mentioned ontological view of God as Being-Itself, Ground of Being, Power of Being, and occasionally as Abyss or God's \"Abysmal Being\". What makes Tillich's ontological view of God different from theological theism is that it transcends it by being the foundation or ultimate reality that \"precedes\" all beings. Just as Being for Heidegger is ontologically \"prior\" to conception, Tillich views God to be beyond Being-Itself, manifested in the structure of beings. God is not a supernatural entity among other entities. Instead, God is the ground upon which all beings exist. We cannot perceive God as an object which is related to a subject because God \"precedes\" the subject–object dichotomy.\n\nThus Tillich dismisses a literalistic Biblicism. Instead of rejecting the notion of personal God, however, Tillich sees it as a symbol that points directly to the Ground of Being. Since the Ground of Being ontologically precedes reason, it cannot be comprehended since comprehension presupposes the subject–object dichotomy. Tillich disagreed with any literal philosophical and religious statements that can be made about God. Such literal statements attempt to define God and lead not only to anthropomorphism but also to a philosophical mistake that Immanuel Kant warned against, that setting limits against the transcendent inevitably leads to contradictions. Any statements about God are simply symbolic, but these symbols are sacred in the sense that they function to participate or point to the Ground of Being. Tillich insists that anyone who participates in these symbols is empowered by the Power of Being, which overcomes and conquers nonbeing and meaninglessness.\n\nTillich also further elaborated the thesis of the God above the God of theism in his Systematic Theology.\n\nIn Paul Tillich's work \"The Courage to Be\" he defines courage as the self-affirmation of one's being in spite of a threat of nonbeing. He relates courage to anxiety, anxiety being the threat of non-being and the courage to be what we use to combat that threat. For Tillich, he outlines three types of anxiety and thus three ways to display the courage to be.\n\n1) The Anxiety of Fate and Death\na. The Anxiety of Fate and Death is the most basic and universal form of anxiety for Tillich. It relates quite simply to the recognition of our mortality. This troubles us humans. We become anxious when we are unsure whether our actions create a causal damnation which leads to a very real and quite unavoidable death (42-44). \"Nonbeing threatens man's ontic self-affirmation, relatively in terms of fate, absolutely in terms of death\" (41).\nb. We display courage when we cease to rely on others to tell us what will come of us, (what will happen when we die etc.) and begin seeking those answers out for ourselves. Called the \"courage of confidence\" (162-63).\n\n2) The Anxiety of Guilt and Condemnation\na. This anxiety afflicts our moral self-affirmation. We as humans are responsible for our moral being, and when asked by our judge (whomever that may be) what we have made of ourselves we must answer. The anxiety is produced when we realize our being is unsatisfactory. \"It [Nonbeing] threatens man's moral self-affirmation, relatively in terms of guilt, absolutely in terms of condemnation\" (41).\nb. We display courage when we first identify our sin; despair or whatever is causing us guilt or afflicting condemnation. We then rely on the idea that we are accepted regardless. \"The courage to be is the courage to accept oneself as accepted in spite of being unacceptable\" (164).\n\n3) The Anxiety of Meaningless and Emptiness \na. The Anxiety of Meaninglessness and Emptiness attacks our being as a whole. We worry about the loss of an ultimate concern or goal. This anxiety is also brought on by a loss of spirituality. We as beings feel the threat of non-being when we feel we have no place or purpose in the world. \"It [Nonbeing] threatens man's spiritual self-affirmation, relatively in terms of emptiness, absolutely in terms of meaninglessness\" (41).\nb. We display the courage to be when facing this anxiety by displaying true faith, and by again, self-affirming oneself. We draw from the \"power of being\" which is God for Tillich and use that faith to in turn affirm ourselves and negate the non-being. We can find our meaning and purpose through the \"power of being\" (172-73).\n\nTillich writes that the ultimate source of the courage to be is the \"God above God,\" which transcends the theistic idea of God and is the content of absolute faith (defined as \"the accepting of the acceptance without somebody or something that accepts\") (185).\n\nTwo of Tillich's works, \"The Courage to Be\" (1952) and \"Dynamics of Faith\" (1957), were read widely, including by people who would not normally read religious books. In \"The Courage to Be\", he lists three basic anxieties: anxiety about our biological finitude, i.e. that arising from the knowledge that we will eventually die; anxiety about our moral finitude, linked to guilt; and anxiety about our existential finitude, a sense of aimlessness in life. Tillich related these to three different historical eras: the early centuries of the Christian era; the Reformation; and the 20th century. Tillich's popular works have influenced psychology as well as theology, having had an influence on Rollo May, whose \"The Courage to Create\" was inspired by \"The Courage to Be\".\n\nToday, Tillich's most observable legacy may well be that of a spiritually-oriented public intellectual and teacher with a broad and continuing range of influence. Tillich's chapel sermons (especially at Union) were enthusiastically received (Tillich was known as the only faculty member of his day at Union willing to attend the revivals of Billy Graham) Tillich's students have commented on Tillich's approachability as a lecturer and his need for interaction with his audience. When Tillich was University Professor at Harvard, he was chosen as keynote speaker from among an auspicious gathering of many who had appeared on the cover of Time Magazine during its first four decades. Tillich along with his student, psychologist Rollo May, was an early leader at the Esalen Institute. Contemporary New Age catchphrases describing God (spatially) as the \"Ground of Being\" and (temporally) as the \"Eternal Now,\" in tandem with the view that God is not an entity among entities but rather is \"Being-Itself\"—notions which Eckhart Tolle, for example, has invoked repeatedly throughout his career—were paradigmatically renovated by Tillich, although of course these ideas derive from Christian mystical sources as well as from ancient and medieval theologians such as St. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas.\n\nThe introductory philosophy course taught by the person Tillich considered to be his best student, John Edwin Smith, \"probably turned more undergraduates to the study of philosophy at Yale than all the other philosophy courses put together. His courses in philosophy of religion and American philosophy defined those fields for many years. Perhaps most important of all, he has educated a younger generation in the importance of the public life in philosophy and in how to practice philosophy publicly.\" In the 1980s and 1990s the Boston University Institute for Philosophy and Religion, a leading forum dedicated to the revival of the American public tradition of philosophy and religion, flourished under the leadership of Tillich's student and expositor Leroy S. Rouner.\n\nMartin Buber criticized Tillich's \"transtheistic position\" as a reduction of God to the impersonal \"necessary being\" of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nTillich has been criticized from the Barthian wing of Protestantism for what is alleged to be correlation theory's tendency to reduce God and his relationship to man to anthropocentric terms. Tillich counters that Barth's approach to theology denies the \"possibility of understanding God's relation to man in any other way than heteronomously or extrinsically\". Defenders of Tillich claim that critics misunderstand the distinction Tillich makes between God's essence as the unconditional (\"das unbedingte\") \"Ground of Being\" which is unknowable, and how God reveals himself to mankind in existence. Tillich establishes the distinction in the first chapter of his \"Systematic Theology Volume One:\" \"But though God in his abysmal nature <nowiki>[</nowiki>\"footnote: 'Calvin: in his essence' \" <nowiki>]</nowiki> is in no way dependent on man, God in his self manifestation to man is dependent on the way man receives his manifestation.\"\n\nSome conservative strains of Evangelical Christianity believe Tillich's thought is too unorthodox to qualify as Christianity at all, but rather as a form of pantheism or atheism. The \"Evangelical Dictionary of Theology\" states, \"At best Tillich was a pantheist, but his thought borders on atheism.\"\n\n\n\nTRANSLATIONS OF HIS WORKS\n\nIN ROMANIAN LANGUAGE: \n\n"}
{"id": "49329230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49329230", "title": "Personal horizon", "text": "Personal horizon\n\nIn his book \"Dream, Death, and the Self\", Valberg develops the concept of the personal horizon. He attempts to bring out his subject matter by considering the dream hypothesis—what if \"this\" were a dream? In Valberg's view, my horizon is what this world would be internal to if \"this\" were all a dream. This leads to \"horizonal\" conceptions of consciousness, mind, experience, life, the self, etc. Valberg subsequently considers death, and argues that when the meaning of death strikes us in the right way, it presents us with the prospect of nothingness—not there being nothing \"for me\", but nothing \"period\". This corresponds to my horizon being the \"preeminent\" one, corresponding to a weak version of solipsism (arguably closely related to Hare's egocentric presentism). Valberg points out the difficulty of reconciling this with his commitment to the view that he shares the world with metaphysical equals. He continues by re-evaluating many well-studied problems in philosophy in light of this notion of the personal horizon.\n\nMark Johnston compares this notion to his related but distinct notion of an \"arena of presence and action\", which contains the stream of consciousness, and argues for the latter.\n\n"}
{"id": "26396900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26396900", "title": "Philosophical Reflections in the Naisadhacarita", "text": "Philosophical Reflections in the Naisadhacarita\n\nPhilosophical Reflections in the Naisadhacarita is the doctoral (Ph.D.) thesis of Harekrishna Meher done in Banaras Hindu University in 1981. It discusses philosophical ideas as reflected in the Sanskrit Mahakavya ‘Naisadhacaritam’ authored by the distinguished poet Sriharsa (12th century). This book (), first published in 1989 by Punthi Pustak Calcutta, is circulated worldwide.\n\nNaisadhacarita Mahakavya of poet Sriharsa enjoys a prominent position among the five great epics of Sanskrit Literature. Also known as ‘Naishadha’ or ‘Naishadhiya’, this epic contains twenty-two cantos completed with 2827 verses. Its main theme is the story of love between Nala, the King of Nisadha country and Damayanti, the Princess of Vidarbha. The story of Nala and Damayanti is found in the Mahabharata of Vyasa and Kathasaritsagara of Somadeva. The episode of the epic has been taken from the Mahabharata. Poet Sriharsa has remodelled the story and has added the sentiment of love to it.\n\nPhilosophical Importance of Naisadhacarita :\nIn Naisadhacarita, Indian literature and philosophy are interwoven. Indian philosophy has the celebrity all over the world for its intellectual and practical eminence. The keynote of almost all the philosophical systems is the realization of Truth and Self, annihilation of mundane sufferings and attainment of supreme happiness. Ways are many, but the destination is one. Sriharsa’s epic has several philosophical trends in the light of the thoughts revealed by the minds of the great Aryan thinkers.\n\nPoet Sriharsa is a deep-delved philosopher. His Naisadhacarita, even with its epical characteristics, forms a philosophical profile. This literary composition addresses itself to a critical review of social norms and ethics. Romanticism of the Nala-Damayanti-episode reigns superb; yet other factors of life are also taken into account in the greater perspective of human existence.\n\nSriharsa has not dilated upon all the topics of all the Indian philosophical systems; still his philosophical purview provides a general survey. Various philosophical notions are compressed and communed with the literary matter of the epic. No sequence is seen in the philosophical allusions and they are found scattered in over two hundred and thirty verses of different cantos.\n\nFor the philosophical affluence with scriptural influence, Canto-XVII is really remarkable. Some definite items of almost all the systems, theist and atheist, spiritual and non-spiritual, orthodox and heterodox, are traced with unfailing philosophical focuses. This significant canto forms an excellent index of Sriharsa’s dexterous genius, originality and inviting innovations in the Indian.philosophical sphere.\n\nIt may be observed that with the infusion of philosophical phenomena, Sriharsa’s aim is to suitably embellish the aesthetic status of his literary work and to sincerely evince his philosophical acumen as well. He has successfully designed his poetic art with the philosophical features noticeable not only in plain illustrations, but also in many a double entendre.\n\nAuthor of the Book, Dr. Meher remarks :\n\n\"Sriharsa’s Naisadhacarita seems burdensome for general readers; but it serves as a repository of epical riches. This literary composition earns high admirations from many noted Sanskrit scholars, both oriental and occidental. For the felicitous expression, bold approach, intellectual relevance, emotional charm, scriptural significance, philosophical probing and above all, scholarly structure of Indian wisdom, this epic is renowned as a monumental masterpiece in Sanskrit.\"\n\nThe Author further expresses :\n\n\"Sriharsa’s eruditions on all the philosophical systems are very well marked and the sublimity of Monistic Vedanta has been maintained in the Naisadhacarita. Literary merit has not been belittled by the philosophical concepts inserted into the literature; rather it has been enhanced, since they have been contextually and befittingly utilized as some favourable figures of speech without causing any levity of meaning and without marring the literary beauty of the epic. * * Bearing, though unsystematically, the outlines of diverse philosophical aspects, from Carvaka up to Vedanta in a bird’s eye-view, this literary epic appears as an epitome of Indian Philosophy weighed carefully by the poet-philosopher Sriharsa. Through the scriptural and canonical connections, all the thoughts signify the cultural heritage of the vast country of India and Indianness.\"\n\nBrief Sketch of the Philosophical Study :\n\nThe book \"Philosophical Reflections in the Naisadhacarita\" is accomplished with ten chapters.\n\n\nSome Comments on this Thesis :\n\n“Sriharsha has the catholicity to absorb the teachings of both theistic and atheistic schools, and one is astounded to see the fusion of conflicting trends in his court-epic. The writer of the present dissertation has discussed all these issues in the work which can claim originality on many counts. On the whole, my impression on the thesis is extremely favourable. The work is marked by originality of thought and freshness of approach, and I have every reason to believe that it will be admired by posterity as a document successful in its attempt to enrich the stock of human knowledge.”\n\n“The thesis is a definite contribution to the studies of the Naisadhacarita. The study, further, has been very critical and exhaustive as can well be seen from the scholarly examination of the views of the different systems of Indian Philosophy like the Carvakas, the Nyaya-Vaisesikas, the Samkhyas, the Jainas, the different schools of Buddhism and the Advaita Vedanta, so laboriously culled from the poem. This presentation reveals not only the hard work on the part of the candidate, but also his sound understanding of the text before him and of Indian Philosophy also. The thesis has been arranged and presented in a systematic manner and has been lucidly written.”\n\n“The candidate has taken serious pains to see how the poet has worked out the theme in the light of Indian metaphysics and ethics. It is a remarkable amalgam of truth and fiction, fact and artifact. I congratulate the candidate for his honest and sincere attempts, his critical acumen and deep philosophical insight. I have reasons to believe that it is a real contribution to the world of academicians.”\n\nBy : Dr. HAREKRISHNA MEHER\n\nPublished by : Punthi Pustak, 136 / 4B, Bidhan Sarani, Calcutta-4,\n\nFirst Edition 1989 ()\n\nMeher, Harekrishna - Philosophical Reflections in the Naisadhacarita,Punthi-Pustak, Calcutta, 1989)\nnaisadhacarita&dq=philosophical+reflections+in+the+naisadhacarita&ei=evB4SOKmLo2AsgPXvuzfBw&pgis=1\n\n\n"}
{"id": "851574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=851574", "title": "Progressive Utilization Theory", "text": "Progressive Utilization Theory\n\nProgressive Utilization Theory (Prout), also known by the acronym PROUT, is a socioeconomic and political theory developed by philosopher and spiritual leader Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar. The theory is based on his holistic outlook of life. It is a system of governance that is inspired by capitalist and socialist thought, as well as Sarkar's own ideas. It aims to be economically progressive and improve social development. The theory is in line with Sarkar's Neohumanist values which aim to provide \"proper care\" to every being on the planet, including humans, animals and plants.\n\nBy 1959, Sarkar had developed the ideas of Prout. In 1961, the theory was formally outlined in his book \"Ananda Sutram\", published under his spiritual name Shrii Shrii Ánandamúrti.\n\nIn 1968, Sarkar founded the organisation \"Proutist Block of India\" (PBI), to further the ideals of his theory through political and social action. The PBI was soon superseded by \"Proutist Universal\" (PU), which primarily consists of five federations (students, intellectuals, farmers, labour, and youth). \n\nThe theory has not achieved widespread implementation. Cooperative communities have been established by Ananda Marga in an attempt to provide ideal models for the society outlined in Prout.\n\nProut proposes an socioeconomic system as an alternative to communism and capitalism, taking ideas from both. Under the system material goods would be common property and distributed in a rational and equitable way to maximize the physical, mental, and spiritual development of all people. The distribution intends to guarantee food, clothing, shelter, education, and medical care (what the theory regards as minimum requirements for humans).\n\nProut advocates a three-tiered approach to industrial organization. Key industries and public utilities would be nonprofit organizations. Decentralized industry run by sociolinguistic unions would provide people's minimum necessities. The majority of economic transactions would be through producers' and consumers' cooperatives. Incentives for people serving society would be funded via surpluses.\n\nAt the political level, Prout rejects nationalism. Instead, there would be locally governed self-sufficient socioeconomic zones and a world government. There would be a world constitution and a bill of rights for animals and plants, as well as humans.\n\nProut takes account of Sarkat's law of social cycle. It sees the social order as consisting of four classes of people that cyclically dominate society: \"shudras\" (workers), \"kshatriyas\" (warriors), \"vipras\" (intellectuals) and \"vaishyas\" (acquisitors).\n\nHowever, Prout does not seek the abolition of these four classes, as it sees them as \"... not merely as a power configuration, but as a way of knowing the world, as a paradigm, episteme or deep structure if you will.\" It considers that any person can be worker, warrior, intellectual or acquisitive minded. Further, these different class or psychologies, are not seen as static or mutually exclusive. The theory sees them as evolving over an individual's lifetime. \n\nProut see the four classes as connected to cyclic processes across time. That when a class of people struggle and rise to power they cause a revolution in the physical and mental world. The theory then see the newly powerful class becoming corrupt. To prevent any social class from clinging to political power and exploiting the others, a \"spiritual elite\" sadvipras (etymologically sad – true, vipra – intellectual) would determine who will hold political leadership. Prout theorises that the first sadvipras would come from disgruntled middle-class intellectuals and warriors. \n\nSadvipras would be organized into executive, legislative, and judicial boards which would be governed by a Supreme Board. They would be responsible for the application of force necessary to change the order of dominance within the social order. It is envisioned that large amounts of force, akin to revolution, may be necessary.\n\nThe Prout theory is inline with Sarkar's Neohumanism philosophy. The philosophy is a reinterpretation of humanism integrating the idea of unity of all life. In it all living beings belong to a universal family deserving equal care and respect.\n\nIn 1962, Sarkar formally outlined Prout in sixteen aphorisms (see Chapter 5 of \"Ananda Sutram\"). The last five aphorisms (5:12-16) are commonly referred to as the five fundamental principles of Prout. These five principles are deemed to be fundamental because it would be difficult to get a clear understanding of Prout without comprehending the underlying concepts of these principles, the interrelationship of the principles, and their respective areas of application.\n\nThe five aphorisms from Ananda Sutram translate into English as follows:\nAn initial glimpse of these five principles first appeared in Sarkar's earlier work, \"Idea and Ideology\".\n\nAs far as Prout's values and goals differ from those of capitalism and communism, so does its economic structure. Following a close analysis of the two systems, Prout’s propounder argues that these philosophies are \"anti-human“ in the sense that they encourage people to relentlessly pursue material attainment, like name, fame, etc. \n\nAnother criticism of neo-liberalism and capitalism in general is the centralization of economic power in the hands of the rich leads to the exploitation of the masses and ultimately to the denegeration of society.\n\nProut claims that both capitalism and communism have been built on shaky foundations, and identifies weaknesses to a point where a new market system is required. He heavily critiqued communism, indicating that one of the reasons the USSRs experiment with communism did not work, causing the eventual implosion of their political structure, is that the sovietic central planning committees (Gosplan) had too much economic decision and cohersion power in the federation (see Marxism–Leninism).\n\nNonetheless, Sarkar observed aspects of market planning that help to create and sustain a healthy economy. In summary, Proutist thought considers that planning allows the market to protect its stakeholders from the meanderings of neo-liberal economics where profit-motive speaks highest. However, he stresses that a planning committee at a national level should only outline the broader aspects of economic development, leaving the details to be resolved by planning bodies at a local level where problems are best understood and more easily dealt with. (see diseconomies of scale). Consequently, this kind of top-down planning will leave communities, enterprises and ultimately workers with a significant level of freedom to decide their own economic future (see decentralized planning).\n\nProut also claims that the nationalization of enterprises is inefficient due to the larger costs and amount of bureaucracy necessary to keep state-controlled industries running. Yet, there are some industries that should be nationalized, operating on a \"no-profit, no-loss\" principle. Key industries vital for the prosperity of society (such as transportation, energy or hospitals), claims Sarkar, should be run by the immediate government as they are too large of operations to be run conveniently by private business men.\n\nConcerning wealth distribution among the population, Prout argues for an \"optimal inequality\" where the wage gap between the richer strata of society is substantially subsided. Richard Freeman, a Harvard economist, points out income inequality comes from the monopoly of power and other activities with \"negative consequences\" in terms of social development. Nonetheless Prout is not in favour of total income equality, claiming that in a society where material motivation to work is absent, the willingness to strive for financial success and to thrive in the creative development of industry and society will be lost in its citizens. Therefore, Sarkar argues for the implementation of a policy allowing the most meritous in society to receive added perks for the added benefits they bring to society. It is thus theorized that the communist‘s motto of from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs cannot work in the real world. Prout proposes instead a minimum and maximum wage, roughly attributed according to the value the work of each person brings to society. We see examples of attempts in this direction in companies like Mondragon or Whole Foods.\n\nRegarding neo-liberalism, Sarkar throws a new light to the concept of Adam Smith's invisible hand, where individual producers acting self-interest benefit the community as a whole. Prout claims that, unchecked, societies economic elite will disrupt the just circulation of material wealth within society. The market will then require regulatory measures so as to create a functional economic system.\n\nIn relation to democracy, Prout argues that political democracy is not enough to free society from exploitation and what it considers extreme income inequality. As Roar Bjonnes, a known Proutist, states, \"Unless we have deeper structural change – what we refer to as economic-systems change – we will never be able to solve such global and systemic problems as the environmental and inequality crises. History has demonstrated that political democracy is not enough.\" \n\nProut, therefore, advocates an economic democracy where the decision-making power for the economic future of a community is given to its inhabitants. Economic democracy is not a new term, but Sarkar reinvents it by setting four requirements for what he considers a successful one. The first and foremost requirement is guaranteeing the minimum requirements of life to all members of society. Secondly, and following one of the five fundamental principles, Prout argues that there should be an increasing purchasing capacity for each individual, stating that local people will have to hold economic power over their socio-economic region. Still, on this regard, Sarkar theorizes that, unlike capitalism, where the production and distribution of goods are mainly decided by market competition, in a Proutistic society it should be based on necessity. The third requirement of economic democracy is the decentralization of power, giving the freedom to make economic decisions to its stakeholders. That can be accomplished by adopting a worker-owned cooperative system and by the use of local resources (raw materials and other natural resources) for the development of the region and not merely for export. In summary, Prout advocates a decentralized economy where self-sufficient economic zones are created and organized according to a set of predetermined conditions (see socio-economic units).\n\nProut claims this requirement does not express xenophobic feelings, it solely claims to be the realization that there should not be a constant outflow of local capital, where natural resources are explored by foreign investment companies that extract assets and money out of the community. From a Neohumanist perspective, all people are free to choose where they wish to live, as long as they merge their economic interests with the ones of the local people.\n\nProut rests upon the concept of a tiered economic structure in which the production and distribution of goods is performed according to three distinctive business models. During his lifetime, he classifies and clarifies the need for these models which are; medium-scale worker-owned cooperatives, small-scale privately owned businesses and government-run large-scale key industries. Sarkar justifies this economic structure by claiming that there are fundamental strengths and weaknesses embedded in each style of business which makes them more suitable for specific industries and scales of operation. Cooperatives, he understood, are desirable for the majority of enterprises. This claim has been given since that by working together and taking hold of the means of production, cooperative workers and consumers will be safeguarded against different forms of economic exploitation, offering no scope for intermediaries to interfere with their business. However, key industries vital to the development of the country and of strategic importance (such as electrical utilities or the railway system), should be run by the immediate local government. He justified this idea by claiming that these industries are too complex and large scale to be run effectively by a cooperative. Finally, Sarkar defends that small businesses can be privately owned and managed. Enterprises with few employees such as family businesses are encouraged to be self-managed. Sarkarian thought sees that some people have economic dreams that are more individual in nature and hence not suitable to be constrained by collective interests.\n\nIn a Prout system there would be no privately owned corporations.\n\nA socio-economic unit, or Samaj in Sanskrit, is the Proutist materialization of the collective effort to create a strong and resilient local community, built on strong feelings of solidarity and self-identity. There are a few criteria that Sarkar outlined in order to build a working and cohesive socio-economic unit. In sum, a unit should have common social and economic conditions, geographical potentialities, cultural legacy and language. Similar to bioregions, their purpose is to facilitate cooperative development, moving towards a decentralized economy, where these units are economically independent and self-reliant. Though still guided by national and federal guidelines and laws, they should prepare its own economic plan.\n\nAiming to achieve maximum efficiency in the utilization of local resources, they propose to make trade across borders more balanced and mutually beneficial.\n\nIn Prout these socio-economic units would also create the necessary balance in the world's trade in so much as independently run and self-reliant communities would not need the resources from more developed economic powers seeking to exploit them.\nFrom Prout's perspective, a progressive society cannot solely be measured by the wealth of a nation or it’s GDP levels. Prout recognizes the benefits of material progress, but deems them insufficient indicators of the development of human society. It argues that even though progress as its interpreted by society today has its advantages, there are negative side effects that, if unchecked, bring more harm than good. Ronald Logan, author of \"A new Paradigm of Development,\" reminds its readers that even though auto and air traffic enables us to travel at increasing speeds, bringing great convenience to travelers and commuters, it also brings air pollution, noise pollution, traffic congestion, accidental deaths, alienation from nature, etc.\n\nPresented with this quasi-paradoxical situation, Prout offers a concept of progress as a society that transcends material and technological development. Moving along the lines of the triple bottom line that analyzes the social, environmental and financial output of a given enterprise, Prout advocates a measure of progress that encompasses the qualities of what could be termed a \"fourth bottom line\", characterized by the incorporation of a transcendental dimension of human life that focuses on the integrated development of the body, mind and spirit. This fourth bottom line will allow society in general and individuals in particular to develop an expanded sense of identity, allowing for a neohumanist will of inclusion, creating a society where material gains are not the summum bonum of life and allowing space to be created for people to work together in a symbiotic movement that primes for individual and collective welfare through social, cultural, as well as technological development.\n\nProut acknowledges that the well-being of individuals lies in the development of the collective, and that the collective depends on the development of individuals. Therefore, in order to understand how a progressive society is to be achieved, Sarkar tries to analyze what it means for a human being to grow and develop. He concludes that physical and psychic development render little progress for a human being as they are subject to deterioration and decay. There are multifarious diseases that affect our body and mind, and even if we stay free of them, eventually time will turn all our physical and mental faculties of no use. Sarkar argues that the only aspect of human life that seems to be subject to no change over time is its transcendental nature, the \"supra-emotional values\" intrinsic to the human mind and which exacerbate human multilateral existence.\n\n\"The deepest truths of life are an eternal fountain of inspiration. Spiritual, transpersonal development is a process of expanding one's consciousness to link with the Infinite, to reach a state of deep peace and happiness.\"\n\nFrom a Maslownian perspective, Sarkar defends the need to meet physical and mental needs before being able to engage in a journey to find that transcendental nature of the world. The five fundamental principles stem from this idea that society needs to provide for the basic necessities of all human beings so that they can engage in this journey of self-discovery and achieve true progress. Fundamentally, progress in society is the effort through which communities engage in the fulfillment of human needs, with the goal of achieving a transcendental existence. As a goal, transcendence will offer a fourth bottom line which ideally would propel human society into a more peaceful, inclusive and all-round more progressive existence.\n\nProut is a relatively unknown theory. Johan Galtung claimed Prout is unlikely to make it into the western education system: \n\nEconomist Paul Erdman, in the Los Angeles Times , described Prout as:\n\"a strange mixture of voodoo historical theories and sound economic analysis\"\n\nRavi Batra was one of the first economists that used the ideas of Prout in his bestseller \"The Great Depression of 1990\". In time, the theory attracted attention of people like Johan Galtung, founder of the UN Institute for Peace studies who claimed that \"Sarkar’s theory is far superior to Adam Smith’s or that of Marx.\" \n\nSome thinkers have proclaimed the pertinence that this theory has in the context of our modern world. In the foreword of \"After Capitalism: Prout’s Vision for a New World\" political philosopher Noam Chomsky wrote, \"Alternative visions are crucial at this moment in history. Prout’s cooperative model of economic democracy, based on cardinal human values and sharing the resources of the planet for the welfare of everyone, deserves our serious consideration.\" In the same book historian Howard Zinn wrote, \"After Capitalism is refreshingly original. It is spiritual and utopian while remaining grounded in reality. Its analysis is intelligent and its vision inspiring.\" \n\nLeonardo Boff, Brazilian theologian and writer, has summed up what he considers to be the importance of Prout: \"\"The exceptional importance of the Prout system resides in two fundamental points: its completeness and its viability. The entire system comes from a correct understanding of the human being, personal and collective, and authentic human development…\" \" \n\nAccording to a description by Terry Irving and Rowan Cahill, Prout \"envisages a decentralised, community-based world economy of self-sufficiency for the poor; economic democracy; small business; and limits on the accumulation of wealth.\" Sohail Inayatullah stated that the philosophy \"attempts to balance the need for societies to create wealth and grow with the requirements for distribution.\" David Skrbina characterized Prout as a \"model of social development... which advocates a 'small is beautiful' approach to society.\" Economics instructor Mark Friedman places Sarkar's economic thought in the tradition of Monsignor John A. Ryan, E.F. Schumacher and Herman Daly in Sarkar's incorporation of spiritual values into economic goals.\n\nIt has been characterized as a form of \"progressive socialism\" as well as a \"socialist theory\". \n\nHans Despain noted, in Monthly Review, that there are similarities between Prout and the theories of David Schweickart, Gar Alperovitz and Richard D. Wolff. Particularly the focus on economic democracy and co-operatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "27995100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27995100", "title": "Richard Joyce (philosopher)", "text": "Richard Joyce (philosopher)\n\nRichard Joyce (born 1966) is a British-Australian-New Zealand philosopher, known for his contributions to the fields of meta-ethics and moral psychology. He is Professor of Philosophy at Victoria University of Wellington.\n\nJoyce was born in England and raised in New Zealand (and is an Australian citizen). After an initial education at the University of Auckland, he received his PhD from Princeton University in 1998 (studying under Gilbert Harman). After Princeton, he was a lecturer at the University of Sheffield for a few years, and then held research fellowships at the Australian National University and the University of Sydney. He took up his professorship at Victoria University of Wellington in 2010.\n\nTo hold an error theory about morality is to endorse a kind of radical moral skepticism--a skepticism analogous to atheism in the religious domain. The atheist thinks that religious utterances, such as \"God loves you,\" really are truth-evaluable assertions (as opposed to being veiled commands or expressions of hope, etc.), but that the world just doesn't contain the items (e.g., God) necessary to render such assertions true. Similarly, the moral error theorist maintains that moral judgments are truth-evaluable assertions (thus contrasting with noncognitivism) but that the world doesn't contain the properties (e.g., moral goodness, evil, moral obligation) needed to render moral judgments true. In other words, moral discourse aims at the truth but systematically fails to secure it. This view was argued for by J.L. Mackie in his 1977 book, and Mackie's position and arguments have been developed by Joyce in many publications, most notably his 2001 book \"The Myth of Morality\".\n\nIf a moral error theory is true, then what are we supposed to do with our faulty moral discourse? The natural thought is that we should more or less do away with it (abolitionism). Another possibility is that we should carry on believing it, even while maintaining that it is false (conservationism). Joyce, in contrast, defends a third way—the fictionalist view—which treats morality as a kind of convenient fiction. According to the moral fictionalist, we should carry on using moral discourse, though not believing it or asserting it, such that it has a status similar to make-believe. Joyce likens this view to our familiar use of metaphors, whereby we can convey something important and true via saying something false.\n\nWhere does the human capacity for moral thinking come from? One view is that it is the by-product of other psychological faculties that evolved for other purposes—perhaps a relatively recent cultural phenomenon that emerged when humans started living in large groups. Joyce has explored and tentatively advocated the alternative nativist view, according to which human moral thinking is a distinct biological adaptation (i.e., that we are \"hard-wired\" for moral thinking). Joyce hypothesizes that moral thinking evolved in order to strengthen our ancestors' motivation to engage in adaptive cooperative behavior. This is the subject of his 2006 book \"The Evolution of Morality\".\n\nIf human moral thinking evolved in order to strengthen cooperative bonds among our ancestors, then the question arises as to why we should suppose that it provides us with accurate information. Why should we trust our moral intuitions, no matter how strong they are, if we have a reasonable explanation of their origin that is compatible with their being entirely false? Joyce has developed and defended what has come to be known as an \"evolutionary debunking argument,\" according to which the evolutionary origin of human moral thinking might give us cause to doubt our moral judgments. The conclusion of Joyce's debunking argument is not the error-theoretic view that all moral judgments are false (though this is a conclusion he argues for elsewhere), but the epistemological view that all moral judgments are unjustified.\n\nJoyce is the author of several books:\n\nHe is editor (or co-editor) of several collections:\n\n\nJoyce has also published numerous journal articles and book chapters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31599836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31599836", "title": "Robert Misrahi", "text": "Robert Misrahi\n\nRobert Misrahi (; born 3 January 1926) is a French philosopher who specialises in Spinoza.\n\nBorn in Paris to Turkish-Jewish immigrants, Misrahi studied at the University of Paris (Sorbonne), where he became a protege of Jean-Paul Sartre. He is currently the emeritus professor of ethical philosophy at the Université de Paris I (Sorbonne), he has published a number of works on Spinoza and published the essentials of his work on the question of happiness. He has published a number of works in publications including \"Les Temps modernes\", \"Encyclopædia Universalis\", \"Le Dictionnaire des philosophies \"PUF\"\", but also \"Libération\" and \"le Nouvel Observateur\".\n\nIn November 2002, he published a polemic in the columns of \"Charlie Hebdo\", regarding a book by controversial Italian journalist Oriana Fallaci, \"la Rage et l'Orgueil\".\n\nDuring his studies at the Sorbonne, Misrahi also became involved with the militant Zionist group Lehi, which was then conducting an insurgency in Palestine against the British. Misrahi was recruited to carry out an attack on British soil. During a March 1947 visit to London, Misrahi placed a bomb in the Colonial Club, a recreational facility for students and soldiers from British colonies in Africa and the West Indies. The bomb, which detonated on March 7, 1947, blew out the facility's doors and windows and seriously injured several soldiers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2996862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2996862", "title": "Romano Guardini", "text": "Romano Guardini\n\nRomano Guardini (17 February 1885 – 1 October 1968) was an Italian-born German Catholic priest, author, and academic. He was one of the most important figures in Catholic intellectual life in the 20th century.\n\nGuardini was born in Verona, Italy, in 1885. His family moved to Mainz when he was one year old and he lived in Germany for the rest of his life. He attended the Rabanus-Maurus-Gymnasium. After studying chemistry in Tübingen for two semesters, and economics in Munich and Berlin for three, he decided to become a priest. After studying Theology in Freiburg im Breisgau and Tübingen, he was ordained in Mainz in 1910. He briefly worked in a pastoral position before returning to Freiburg to work on his doctorate in Theology under Engelbert Krebs. He received his doctorate in 1915 for a dissertation on Bonaventure. He completed his \"Habilitation\" in Dogmatic Theology at the University of Bonn in 1922, again with a dissertation on Bonaventure. Throughout this period he also worked as a chaplain to the Catholic youth movement.\n\nIn 1923 he was appointed to a chair in Philosophy of Religion at the University of Berlin. In the 1935 essay \"Der Heiland\" (The Saviour) he criticized Nazi mythologizing of the person of Jesus and emphasized the Jewishness of Jesus. The Nazis forced him to resign from his Berlin position in 1939. From 1943 to 1945 he retired to Mooshausen, where his friend had been parish priest since 1917.\n\nIn 1945 Guardini was appointed professor in the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Tübingen and resumed lecturing on the Philosophy of Religion. In 1948, he became professor at the University of Munich, where he remained until retiring for health reasons in 1962.\n\nGuardini died in Munich, Bavaria on 1 October 1968. He was buried in the priests’ cemetery of the Oratory of St. Philip Neri in Munich. His estate was left to the Catholic Academy in Bavaria that he had co-founded.\n\nGuardini's books were often powerful studies of traditional themes in the light of present-day challenges or examinations of current problems as approached from the Christian, and especially Catholic, tradition. He was able to get inside such different worldviews as those of Socrates, Plato, Augustine, Dante, Pascal, Kierkegaard, Dostojevski and Nietzsche, and make sense of them for modern readers.\n\nHis first major work, \"Vom Geist der Liturgie\" (The Spirit of the Liturgy), published during the First World War, was a major influence on the Liturgical Movement in Germany and by extension on the liturgical reforms of the Second Vatican Council. He is generally regarded as the father of the liturgical movement in Germany, and in his \"Open Letter\" of April 1964 to Mgr. Johannes Wagner, the organizer of the Third German Liturgical Congress in Mainz, he \"raises important questions regarding the nature of the liturgical act in the wake of individualism, asking whether it is possible for twentieth-century Christians really to engage in worship. Is it possible to 'relearn a forgotten way of doing things and recapture lost attitudes', so as to enter into the liturgical experience?.\" It was his glad hope that after the call by the Second Vatican Council for liturgical reform, the Church might shift its focus from that of mere ceremonial (though important) to the broader idea of true liturgical action, an act which \"embraced not only a spiritual inwardness, but the whole man, body as well as spirit.\" He himself gave an example of his meaning: A parish priest of the late 19th century once said (according to Guardini's illustration), \"We must organize the procession better; we must see to it that the praying and singing is done better.\" For Guardini, the parish priest had missed the point of what true liturgical action is. The questions he had asked should have been different. They should have been, \"How can the act of walking become a religious act, a retinue for the Lord progressing through his land, so that an 'epiphany' may take place.\" Pope Paul VI offered to make him a cardinal in 1965, but he declined.\n\nAs a philosopher he founded no \"school\", but his intellectual disciples could in some sense be said to include Josef Pieper, Luigi Giussani, Felix Messerschmid, Heinrich Getzeny, Rudolf Schwarz, Jean Gebser, Joseph Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI), and Jorge Mario Bergoglio (later Pope Francis). In the 1980s Bergoglio began work on a doctoral dissertation on Guardini, though he never completed it. Pope Francis cited Guardini's \"The End of the Modern World\" eight times in his 2015 encyclical \"Laudato si'\", more often than any other modern thinker who was not pope. Hannah Arendt and Iring Fetscher were favourably impressed by Guardini's work. He had a strong influence in Central Europe; in Slovenia, for example, an influential group of Christian socialists, among whom Edvard Kocbek, Pino Mlakar, Vekoslav Grmič and Boris Pahor, incorporated Guardini's views in their agenda. Slovak philosopher and theologian Ladislav Hanus was strongly influenced in his works by Guardini, whom he met personally, and promoted his ideas in Slovakia, writing a short monograph. In 1952, Guardini won the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade.\n\nThe 1990s saw something of a revival of interest in his works and person. Several of his books were reissued in the original German and in English translation. In 1997 his remains were moved to the \"Sankt Ludwig Kirche\", the University church in Munich, where he had often preached.\n\nGuardini's book \"The Lord\", published in English translation in the late 1940s, remained in print for decades and, according to publisher Henry Regnery, was \"one of the most successful books I have ever published.\" The novelist Flannery O'Connor thought it \"very fine\" and recommended it to a number of her friends.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24701403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24701403", "title": "Social Theory of International Politics", "text": "Social Theory of International Politics\n\nSocial Theory of International Politics is an academic book by Alexander Wendt. It expresses a constructivist approach to the study of international relations and is one of the leading texts within the constructivist approach to international relations scholarship.\n\n\"Social Theory of International Politics\" expresses a theory that emphasises the role of shared ideas and norms in shaping state behaviour. It is critical of both liberal and realists approaches to the study of international relations which, Wendt argues, emphasize materialist and individualistic motivations for state actions rather than norms and shared values as Wendt argues they should.\n\nIn a review of \"Social Theory of International Politics\" in \"Foreign Affairs\" G. John Ikenberry argues that the first section of the book is a \"winding tour\" of constructivism's underpinning. After this Wendt explores possible alternative \"cultures\" of international relations - Hobbesian, Lockean, and Kantian - a result of his view that anarchy does not necessarily mean that states must adopt egotistical self-help behaviour. Wendt further explores this view in an influential journal article \"Anarchy Is What States Make of It\" published in the journal \"International Organization\".\n\nThe book was the winner of International Studies Association Best Book of the Decade Award 1991-2000. The title is a reference to Kenneth Waltz's 1979 work \"Theory of International Politics\".\n\nIn this chapter Wendt challenges the neorealist view of anarchy and argues that several cultures of anarchy can dominate. These are called Hobbesian, Lockean, and Kantian cultures.\n\nIn a review essay called \"The Constructivist Challenge to Structural Realism\" Dale Copeland argues from a structural realist perspective and states that Wendt fails to take into account how uncertainty impacts state behaviour:\n\nNotwithstanding Wendt's important contributions to international relations theory, his critique of structural realism has inherent flaws. Most important, it does not adequately address a critical aspect of the realist worldview: the problem of uncertainty.\nWendt admits that his version of constructivism is a \"thin\" version of constructivism as it “concedes important points to materialist and individualist perspectives [of neorealism] and endorses a scientific approach to social inquiry\". As such it has been criticised from the position of more radical \"thick\" constructivists who give less ground to rationalist theories, like Roxanne Lynn Doty, Stefano Guzzini, Friedrich Kratochwill, and Maja Zehfuss.\n\n"}
{"id": "34826610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34826610", "title": "Steve Taylor (author)", "text": "Steve Taylor (author)\n\nSteve Taylor, Ph.D, born 1967, is a British author and lecturer in psychology who has written several books on psychology and spirituality. He is a senior lecturer in psychology at Leeds Beckett University.\n\nTaylor's main interest is in transpersonal psychology, which investigates higher states of consciousness and 'awakening' experiences. Taylor has a master's degree (with distinction) in Consciousness and Transpersonal Psychology and a PhD in Psychology from Liverpool John Moores University.\n\nHe taught personal development at the University of Manchester, UK, did his PhD research at Liverpool John Moores University, and is a senior lecturer at Leeds Beckett University.\n\nTaylor's books have been published in 19 languages, while his articles and essays have been published in both academic journals and in the popular media, including \"The Journal of Humanistic Psychology\", the \"Journal of Transpersonal Psychology\", \"The Journal of Consciousness Studies\", \"Psychologies, Resurgence\", \"The Daily Mail\" and \"The Daily Express\". His work has been featured widely in the media in the UK, including on BBC Breakfast, BBC World TV, Radio 4 and 5, and in \"The Guardian\" and \"The Independent\". His work has been described by Eckhart Tolle as 'an important contribution to the shift in consciousness which is happening on our planet at present.\n\nTaylor's book \"The Fall\" was described in \"The International Journal of Transpersonal Studies\" as \"one of the most notable books of the first years of this century\".\n\nTaylor has been included in the list of the \"100 Most Spiritually Influential Living people\", published by Watkins Books, \"Mind, Body, Spirit magazine\", for the last six years. His book 'The Calm Center' is a book of reflections and meditations, published by Eckhart Tolle Editions, with a foreword by Eckhart Tolle.\n\nSteve lives in Old Trafford, Manchester, England, with his wife and three children.\n\n\nAs Editor:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "422079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422079", "title": "Tension myositis syndrome", "text": "Tension myositis syndrome\n\nTension myositis syndrome (TMS), also known as tension myoneural syndrome or mindbody syndrome is a name given by John E. Sarno to a condition he described as characterized by psychogenic musculoskeletal and nerve symptoms, most notably back pain. Sarno, a Professor of Clinical Rehabilitation Medicine at New York University School of Medicine and Attending Physician at The Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine at New York University Medical Center, has described TMS in four books, and has stated that the condition may be involved in other pain disorders as well. The treatment protocol for TMS includes education, writing about emotional issues, resumption of a normal lifestyle and, for some patients, support meetings and/or psychotherapy. In 2007, David Schechter (a medical doctor and former student and research assistant of Sarno's) published a peer-reviewed study of TMS treatment showing a 54% success rate for chronic back pain. In terms of statistical significance and success rate, the study outperformed similar studies of other psychological interventions for chronic back pain.\n\nThe TMS diagnosis and treatment protocol are not accepted by the mainstream medical community. However, TMS and Sarno's treatment methods have received national attention, including a segment on ABC's \"20/20\"; an episode of \"Larry King Live\"; an interview with \"Medscape\"; and articles in \"Newsweek\", \"The Seattle Times\", and \"The New York Times\". Prominent medical doctors who support TMS treatment include Andrew Weil and Mehmet Oz. Notable patients treated for tension myositis syndrome include Senator Tom Harkin, John Stossel, Howard Stern, and Anne Bancroft.\n\nBack pain is frequently mentioned as a TMS symptom, but Sarno defines TMS symptoms much more broadly than that:\n\nBelow is a list of criteria for diagnosing TMS, according to Schechter and Sarno:\n\nSchechter and Sarno state that if a patient is unable to visit a medical doctor who is trained in TMS, then the patient should see a traditional medical doctor to rule out serious disorders, such as fractures, tumors and infections.\n\nThe treatment protocol for TMS includes education, writing about emotional issues and resumption of a normal lifestyle. For patients who do not recover quickly, the protocol also includes support groups and/or psychotherapy.\n\nSarno's protocol for treatment of TMS is used by the Harvard RSI Action Group, a student volunteer organization, as part of their preventative education and support program for people with repetitive strain injury, also referred to as \"RSI\".\n\nEducation may take the form of office visits, lectures and written and audio materials. The content of the education includes the psychological and physiological aspects of TMS. According to Schechter, the education allows the patients to \"learn that their physical condition is actually benign and that any disability they have is a function of pain-related fear and deconditioning, not the actual risk of further 're-injury.'\"\n\nSarno states that each patient should set aside time daily to think and write about issues that could have led to the patient's repressed emotions. He recommends the following two writing tasks:\n\nSchechter developed a 30-day daily journal called \"The MindBody Workbook\" to assist the patient in recording emotionally significant events and making correlations between those events and their physical symptoms. According to Sarno and Schechter, daily repetition of the psychological process over time defeats the repression through conscious awareness.\n\nTo return to a normal lifestyle, patients are told to take the following actions:\n\nSarno uses support meetings for patients who do not make a prompt recovery. Sarno states that the support meetings (a) allow the patients to explore emotional issues that may be causing their symptoms and (b) review concepts covered during the earlier education.\n\nSarno says that about 20% of his patients need psychotherapy. He states that he uses \"short-term, dynamic, analytically oriented psychotherapy.\" Schechter says that he uses psychotherapy for about 30% of his patients, and that six to ten sessions are needed per patient.\n\nAlan Gordon, LCSW has created a TMS recovery program on the TMS Wiki, which includes various articles, exercises, and segments from sessions exemplifying therapeutic concepts.\n\nWhile psychogenic pain and pain disorder are accepted diagnoses in the medical community, the TMS modality is more controversial.\n\nA non-peer-reviewed 2005 study by Schechter at the Seligman Medical Institute (SMI), co-authored with institute director Arthur Smith, found that treatment of TMS achieved a 57% success rate among patients with chronic back pain.\n\nA peer-reviewed 2007 study with Schechter, Smith and Stanley Azen, Professor and Co-Director of Biostatistics in the Department of Preventative Medicine at the USC Keck School of Medicine, found a 54% success rate for treatment of TMS (\"P\"<.00001). The treatment consisted of office visits, at-home educational materials, writing about emotional issues and psychotherapy. The average pain duration for the study's patients was 9 years. Patients with less than 6 months of back pain were excluded to \"control for the confounder that most back pain episodes typically resolve on their own in a few weeks.\"\n\nSchechter, Smith and Azen also compared their results to the results of three studies of other psychological treatments for chronic back pain. The three non-TMS studies were selected because of (a) their quality, as judged by the Cochrane Collaboration, and (b) the similarity of their pain measurements to those used in the TMS study. Of the three non-TMS studies, only one (the Turner study) showed a statistically significant improvement. Compared to the 2007 TMS study, the Turner study had a lower success rate (26%-35%, depending on the type of psychological treatment) and a lower level of statistical significance (\"P\"<.05).\n\nSchechter, \"et al.\" state that one advantage of TMS treatment is that it avoids the risks associated with surgery and medication, but they caution that the risks of TMS treatment are somewhat unknown due to the relatively low number of patients studied so far.\n\nAccording to Sarno, TMS is a condition in which unconscious emotional issues (primarily rage) initiate a process that causes physical pain and other symptoms. His theory suggests that the unconscious mind uses the autonomic nervous system to decrease blood flow to muscles, nerves or tendons, resulting in oxygen deprivation (temporary micro-ischemia) and metabolite accumulation, experienced as pain in the affected tissues. Sarno theorizes that because patients often report that back pain seems to move around, up and down the spine, or from side to side, that this implies the pain may not be caused by a physical deformity or injury.\n\nSarno states that the underlying cause of the pain is the mind's defense mechanism against unconscious mental stress and emotions such as anger, anxiety and narcissistic rage. The conscious mind is distracted by the physical pain, as the psychological repression process keeps the anger/rage contained in the unconscious and thereby prevented from entering conscious awareness. Sarno believes that when patients recognize that the symptoms are only a distraction, the symptoms then serve no purpose, and they go away. TMS can be considered a psychosomatic condition and has been referred to as a \"distraction pain syndrome\".\n\nSarno is a vocal critic of conventional medicine with regard to diagnosis and treatment of back pain, which is often treated by rest, physical therapy, exercise and/or surgery.\n\nNotable patients who have been treated for TMS include the following:\n\nThe TMS diagnosis and treatment protocol are not accepted by the mainstream medical community. Sarno himself stated in a 2004 interview with \"Medscape Orthopaedics & Sports Medicine\" that \"99.999% of the medical profession does not accept this diagnosis.\" Although the vast majority of medical doctors do not accept TMS, there are prominent doctors who do. Andrew Weil, a notable medical doctor and alternative medicine proponent, endorses TMS treatment for back pain. Mehmet Oz, a television personality and Professor of Surgery at Columbia University, includes TMS treatment in his four recommendations for treating back pain. Richard E. Sall, a medical doctor who authored a book on worker's compensation, includes TMS in a list of conditions he considers possible causes of back pain resulting in missed work days that increase the costs of worker's compensation programs.\n\nCritics in mainstream medicine state that neither the theory of TMS nor the effectiveness of the treatment has been proven in a properly controlled clinical trial, citing the placebo effect and regression to the mean as possible explanations for its success. Patients typically see their doctor when the pain is at its worst and pain chart scores statistically improve over time even if left untreated; most people recover from an episode of back pain within weeks without any medical intervention at all. The TMS theory has also been criticized as too simplistic to account for the complexity of pain syndromes. James Rainville, a medical doctor at New England Baptist Hospital, said that while TMS treatment works for some patients, Sarno mistakenly uses the TMS diagnosis for other patients who have real physical problems.\n\nSarno response was that he had success with many patients who have exhausted every other means of treatment, which he said is proof that regression to the mean is not the cause.\n"}
{"id": "7750794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7750794", "title": "The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy", "text": "The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy\n\nThe Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy (1995; second edition 1999) is a dictionary of philosophy published by Cambridge University Press and edited by Robert Audi. There are 28 members on the Board of Editorial Advisors and 440 contributors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53968033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53968033", "title": "Thought collective", "text": "Thought collective\n\nA thought collective, a term originated in German as \"\"Denkkollektiv\" by the Polish and Israeli physician Ludwik Fleck, is a community of researchers who interact collectively towards the production or elaboration of knowledge using a shared framework of cultural customs and knowledge acquisition. In his 1935 book \"Entstehung und Entwicklung einer wissenschaftlichen Tatsache; Einführung in die Lehre vom Denkstil und Denkkollektiv,\" Fleck identified the scientific production of knowledge as primarily a social process that hinges upon prior discoveries and practices in a way that constrains and preconditions new ideas and concepts. He termed this shared collection of preexisting knowledge a \"Denkstil\"\" or thought style and formulated a comparative epistemology of science using these two ideas.\n\nLudwik Fleck, a Polish and Israeli physician and biologist working during the 20th century, developed an idea of scientific knowledge creation as being primarily a social practice dependent on the cultural and historical practices within which researchers find themselves. He elaborated this idea with a series of examples in the 1935 essay \"Entstehung und Entwicklung einer wissenschaftlichen Tatsache\", together with a book of the same name, however, his ideas went largely unnoticed until Thomas Kuhn's rediscovery of them in the 1960s. Within the text, Fleck uses the identification of syphilis in the late-1800s and early-1900s as an example of a scientific fact that was supremely conditioned by the historical and social context in which it was discovered. He likens the statement that a scientific fact has been ascertained to a statement of the type \"'someone recognizes something,'\" a statement meaningless without further context. He continues the example to state that just as the sentence \"'Town A is situated to the left of town B'\" is incomplete without an observational reference frame, such as \"'to someone walking on the road from town C to town B,'\" so too is a scientific discovery incomplete without considerations of the social practices that condition it.\n\nFleck's goal for this discussion was to situate the discovery of new scientific facts, a form of epistemological cognition, within the greater environment of knowledge that encompasses them. He promotes with the idea of the \"Denkkollektiv\" the tenant that any discovery is an interaction between at least three things, namely the discovered phenomenon, the discoverer, and the existing pool of knowledge from which they draw. By interacting socially in their production of knowledge, researchers produce common concepts and practices that they use to discuss and debate one another's ideas and discoveries. These common concepts and practices both provide a shared language of science within which they can communicate, and consequently limit the possibilities of thought that the researchers can have. Under the influence of a particular \"thought style,\" the common concepts and practices previously mentioned, a community of researchers \"shares joint attributes of problems and judgments considered as evident, joint methods to acquire knowledge, and agrees in the determination of meaningless questions.\" Within this conception of the production of scientific knowledge, the ideas, concepts, and theories of these researchers are permanently conditioned by their present \"thought style\" and cannot be considered independently of them.\n\nAs a result of his formulation of the thought style and thought collective concepts, Fleck attempted to situate the individual scientific discoverer within the system of individuals that compromise the community of interacting researchers. To this end, he maintained that the individual's only contribution to the production of new knowledge is the determination of results that follow from established conceptual preconditions. As he states, \"the preconditions correspond to active linkages and constitute that portion of cognition belonging to the collective.\" The ascertaining of scientific knowledge as such is a result of connections between concepts and ideas that are laid out by the community of researchers, laying the groundwork from which individual researchers can draw their conclusions. Just as a soccer player makes little progress in a game without their interactions among a cooperating team, an individual researcher is lost without the thought collective that shapes their approach to scientific practice. Extending this analogy, ideas and concepts exchange between individuals in the thought collective like passes in a soccer match, each time gaining new directions and a change in momentum. With the greater collective and style of practice taken into account, scientific discoveries can be considered as communal social products influenced by the particular milieu that surrounds them.\n"}
{"id": "6036383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6036383", "title": "Ujamaa", "text": "Ujamaa\n\nUjamaa ('familyhood' in Swahili) was the concept that formed the basis of Julius Nyerere's social and economic development policies in Tanzania after it gained independence from Britain in 1961.\n\nIn 1967, President Nyerere published his development blueprint, which was titled the Arusha Declaration, in which Nyerere pointed out the need for an African model of development and that formed the basis of African socialism. The Swahili word \"ujamaa\" means 'extended family', 'brotherhood' or 'socialism'; as a political concept it asserts that a person becomes a person \"through the people\" or community. He is declared servant of God in the Roman catholic Church for his resilient commitment to encourage the art of neighborliness among Tanzanians. The spirit of 'others' or 'community' bringing units of families together, and fostering cohesion, love and service. \n\nNyerere used Ujamaa as the basis for a national development project. He translated the Ujamaa concept into a political-economic management model through several means:\n\n\nJulius Nyerere's leadership of Tanzania commanded international attention and attracted worldwide respect for his consistent emphasis upon ethical principles as the basis of practical policies. Tanzania under Nyerere made great strides in vital areas of social development: infant mortality was reduced from 138 per 1000 live births in 1965 to 110 in 1985; life expectancy at birth rose from 37 in 1960 to 52 in 1984; primary school enrollment was raised from 25% of age group (only 16% of females) in 1960 to 72% (85% of females) in 1985 (despite the rapidly increasing population); the adult literacy rate rose from 17% in 1960 to 63% by 1975 (much higher than in other African countries) and continued to rise. However, Ujamaa (like many other collectivization projects) decreased production, casting serious doubt on the project's ability to offer economic growth.\n\nNyerere used a colonial law, the Preventive Detention Act, to crush opposition.\n\nIn 1967, nationalizations transformed the government into the largest employer in the country. Purchasing power declined, and, according to World Bank researchers, high taxes and bureaucracy created an environment where businessmen resorted to evasion, bribery and corruption. In 1973, a policy of forced villagisation was pursued under Operation Vijiji in order to promote collective farming.\n\nEventually a number of factors contributed to the downfall of the development model based on the Ujamaa concept. Among those factors were the oil crisis of the 1970s, the collapse of export commodity prices (particularly coffee and sisal), a lack of foreign direct investment, two successive droughts, and the onset of the war with Uganda in 1978, which bled the young Tanzanian nation of valuable resources. By 1985 it was clear that Ujamaa had failed to lift Tanzania out of its poor economic state; Nyerere announced that he would retire voluntarily after presidential elections that same year.\n\nThe hip-hop scene in Tanzania was greatly influenced by the key ideas and themes of Ujamaa. At the turn of the century, the principles of Ujamaa were resurrected through \"an unlikely source: rappers and hip hop artists in the streets of Tanzania.\" In response to years of corrupt government leaders and political figures after Nyerere, themes of unity and family and equality were the messages sent out in a majority of the music being produced. This was in response to the working class oppression and in some sense a form of resistance. The principles of cooperative economics —\"local people cooperating with each other to provide for the essentials of living\"— can be seen in the lyrics of many Tanzanian hip-hop artists. They promote self-business and self-made identities in an effort to raise the spirits of the youth and promote change in society.\n\n\"Ujamaa\", understood as \"Cooperative Economics\", is also the fourth of seven principles of the African-American celebration of Kwanzaa: \"To build and maintain our own stores, shops, and other businesses and to profit from them together.\"\n\n\"Ujamaa\" is also the African-American themed undergraduate dorm at Stanford University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46620001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46620001", "title": "Way of the Gods according to the Confucian Tradition", "text": "Way of the Gods according to the Confucian Tradition\n\nThe Way of the Gods according to the Confucian Tradition (Chinese: 儒宗神教 \"Rúzōng Shénjiào\"), also called the Luandao (鸾道 \"Phoenix Way\" or 鸾门 \"Luánmén\", \"Phoenix Gate\") or Luanism (鸾教 \"Luánjiào\") or—from the name of its cell congregations—the phoenix halls or phoenix churches (鸾堂 \"luántáng\"), is a Confucian congregational religious movement of the Chinese traditional beliefs.\n\nThe first phoenix hall was established in Magong, the capital of the Penghu Islands, in 1853, and from there the movement spread throughout mainland China and Taiwan. Other names of the movement are Rumen (儒门 \"Confucian Gate[way]) or Holy Church of the Confucian Tradition (儒宗圣教 \"Rúzōng Shèngjiào\").\n\nThe aim of the phoenix halls is to honour the gods through Confucian orthopraxy (\"rú\" 儒 style), spreading morality through public lectures and divinely-inspired books (善书 \"shànshū\"). The Confucian Way of the Gods is defined as Houtiandao (后天道 \"Way of Later Heaven\" or \"Way of the Manifested\") by the antagonistic Xiantiandao (先天道 \"Way of Former Heaven\" or \"Way of the Primordial\") traditions, which claim to be closer to the God of the universe.\n\nThe phoenix halls are concerned with the salvation of the disciples, which basically means deification. This is worked on in a long process of \"cultivating the Way\" (Tao), that is the right mode of living through the basic virtues of benevolence (\"ren\"), righteousness (\"yi\"), propriety (\"li\"), and filial piety (\"xiao\").\n\nRealising the virtues one reaches the state of continuous sincerity (\"cheng\") and peace and purity of mind (\"jing\"), proceeding successfully in the cultivation of one's inner numinous nature (\"lingxing\"). The cultivation of the Way is conceptualised as a path of learning. The symbol of the phoenix represents spiritual renewal of the disciple and the social community.\n\nThe tradition of the phoenix halls started in 1853 when a \"fuji\"-inspired cult was established in Magong, the capital of the Penghu archipelago between Fujian and Taiwan. Magong intellectuals sent a prominent \"tongji\" to Quanzhou, in Fujian, to learn the practice of \"fuji\" from the local Society for Public Goodness (公善社 \"Gōngshànshè\"). When the tongji returned in the same year he established the Society for Universal Exhortation (普劝社 \"Pǔquànshè\") to recreate moral conduct, proclaiming the \"Sacred Edict\".\n\nThe activities of the society dwindled over the years, especially during the Sino-French War. It was later reformed as the Society for Complete Renewal (一新社 \"Yīxīnshè\") by six government students, in 1887. It held regular public lecturing sessions given by carefully chosen lecturers (\"jiangsheng\") who expounded the \"Sacred Edict\" and other morality books.\n\nThe texts composed between 1891 and 1903 were collected and published as a single volume entitled the \"Consciousness of the Mysterious Heart\" (觉悟玄心 \"Juéwù xuánxīn\"). At the same time, similar activities were promoted by literati in the Yilan County of northern Taiwan; the Yilan cults were extremely active and spawned new groups throughout northern and central Taiwan.\n\nPhoenix halls are a variant of two types of religious organisations, patronised by local intellectual elites, that flourished in mainland China since the 19th century, in a period of profound social, political and cultural change: Taoist god-writing (\"fuji\") cults usually focused upon a particular immortal, and salvationist charitable societies.\n\nIn Taoist societies, the relationship between members and their deity follows the model of disciples and master, with the goal of immortality through self-cultivation. Phoenix halls inherit this internal structure combined with the conservative social reformism of the charitable societies. They are concerned with a salvation of society through the reaffirmation of traditional standards of morality.\n\nIn the 1920s, phoenix halls in Sichuan adopted the name of \"Confucian shrines\" (儒坛 \"rú tán\"). In the same years, under the influence of the medium Yang Mingji, phoenix halls in northern Taiwan began to unify under the name \"Way of the Gods according to the Confucian Tradition\" (儒宗神教 \"Rúzōng Shénjiào\") and the liturgical manual \"Rúmén kēfàn\" (儒门科范 \"Liturgical Regulations of the Confucian Way\") published in 1937. Effective unification came after the retrocession of Taiwan in 1945; the \"Republic of China Assembly of the Way of the Gods according to the Confucian Tradition\" (中华民国儒宗神教会 \"Zhōnghuá Mínguó Rúzōng Shénjiào Huì\") was created in 1978 incorporating over five hundred phoenix halls. A new ritual book, the \"Sacred Code of the Phoenix Halls\" (鸾堂圣典 \"Luántáng shèngdiǎn\") was published in 1979.\n\nWhile early phoenix halls showed ritual patterns inherited from Taoist cults and Longhua vegetarian halls, since the formation of the Assembly of the Phoenix Halls in 1978 \"new-style\" urban phoenix halls, such as the Shenxian Tang and the Wumiao Mingzheng Tang, strengthened a Confucian style omitting Taoist and Longhua-derived rituals. The tradition of the Wumiao Mingzheng Tang was influenced by Xuanyuanism and Yiguandao. The book \"The Mysterious Meaning of the Way of Heaven\" (天道奥义 \"Tiāndào àoyì\"), published in the 1980s by the Wumiao Mingzheng Tang, incorporates \"Wusheng Laomu\", the central concept of Yiguandao and broader Chinese Maternism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31314087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31314087", "title": "Yellow Court Classic", "text": "Yellow Court Classic\n\nThe Yellow Court Classic (\"Huang Ting Jing\", 黄庭经), a Chinese Taoist meditation text, was received from the unknown source (according to a lore, as a Heavenly Scripture from the Highest Purity Realm) by Lady Wei Huacun, one of the founders of Highest Purity Tradition (Shangqing, 上清), in the 288 CE. The first reference to the text appears in the archives of the famous alchemist and collector of Taoist texts, Ge Hong (葛洪) in the 4th century CE.\n\nThe manuscript comprises the two parts, the External (Wai, 外) and Internal (Nei, 内) Scenery Scripture. All characters of the shorter (100 verses) text of the External Scripture are fully contained in the longer (435 verses) text of the Internal Scripture. Together, both of the texts are also referred to (within the manuscript itself) as \"Jade Book\" or \"Jade Writing\". Fourth century “Sage of Calligraphy”, Wang Xizhi (王羲之) presented the full text of the Internal Scenery Scripture of the Yellow Court on the stone tables in his classic artwork, a well-known masterpiece of the Chinese calligraphy .\n\nSince fourth century, this classic visualization (Fabrizio Pregadio) text has been regularly used in the practice of the Highest Purity (also called Supreme Purity) lineage, as well as the other schools of Taoism. Lü Dongbin (吕洞宾), a historical figure, that is also honored in Chinese folklore as a Deity/Immortal, had integrated the material from \"The Yellow Court Classic\" into his own practice and referenced some parts in his scripture: \"The Secret of the Golden Flower\", that has been later translated by Thomas Cleary (sinologist) and Richard Wilhelm and commented by Carl Jung. The version of Richard Wilhelm is not well translated and is based on a truncated Chinese text. The version of Thomas Cleary is preferable, well translated and complete.\n\nThe literal meaning of the “’’Yellow Court’’’ refers to the central area of the Emperor’s Castle where the Emperor and Ministers gather to try to understand the will of the Heavens and properly regulate the businesses of the Kingdom. The Yellow color indicates Earth element that is central in the Five Element (Wu Xing, 五行) arrangement. The four sides of the Castle Architecture symbolize the other four elements (Metal, Water, Wood and Fire), while the Heaven symbolizes the Spirit. The overall picture presents an allegory to a harmony between human body, spleen (the Earth element of Yellow color, central of the Five Organs) or the energy center of the body (Dantian, 丹田) and the Nature.\n\nThe text of the Yellow Court scriptures provides meditation instructions for the practitioner’s holographic alignment with the Universe and its Spiritual Laws and Forces (symbolized by “Heaven”), in the order to regulate and improve functions and processes of the body (symbolized by “Kingdom”). Such Life Cultivation, or Internal Alchemy work should, according to the text, result in the enhanced health and longevity of a diligent practitioner. Carl Jung referred to this mechanism, in his multiple works, including the commentary of \"The Secret of the Golden Flower\", as the Individuation. However, in addition to the psychological aspect analyzed by Jung, the Taoist Alchemy process also emphasizes energetic and physical changes in the practitioner’s body, as the components of the holistic personal enhancement.\n\nThe key component in the meditative practice of \"The Yellow Court Classic\" is, however, focused on the cooperation with the heavenly spirits (Shen, 神), which are assumed to form the “intelligent”, organizational aspects of the human existence. In addition to the specific locations in the body (like lungs, kidneys, liver, heart, spleen etc.), the nature and mission of these, personified, spirits are designated by color, material and shape of the clothes they wear. The colors usually indicate one of the Five Elements, for instance “red” is associated to the “Heart” and the “Fire” element. The other attributes of the spirits are symbolically associated to the concepts of Yin Yang, Eight Trigrams (Bagua, 八卦) of I Ching etc. The text of the scripture gradually develops a systematic description of main body elements and functions, as aspects of the Universal Spiritual Harmony in the Human Being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38403201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38403201", "title": "Zen organisation and institutions", "text": "Zen organisation and institutions\n\nThe Zen-tradition is maintained and transferred by a high degree of institutionalisation, despite the emphasis on individual experience and the iconoclastic picture of Zen.\n\nIn Japan, modernity has led to criticism of the formal system and the commencement of lay-oriented Zen-schools such as the Sanbo Kyodan and the Ningen Zen Kyodan. How to organize the continuity of the Zen-tradition in the west, constraining charismatic authority and the derailment it may bring on the one hand, and maintaining the legitimacy and authority by limiting the number of authorized teachers on the other hand, is a challenge for the developing Zen-communities in the west.\n\nSince the East Mountain Teaching, Zen has centered on monastic life. In modern Soto and Rinzai, monasteries serve as training facilities to educate Zen priests, most of whom move on to run their own temple. Japanese laity has been allowed to participate in Zen training only since the Meiji Restoration.\n\nJapanese Soto and Rinzai are organized in a system of head-temples and sub-temples.\n\nContemporary Soto-shu has four classes of temples:\n\nThe two head temples or of the Sōtō sect are Eihei-ji and Sōji-ji. While Eihei-ji owes its existence to Dōgen, throughout history this head temple has had significantly fewer sub-temple affiliates than the Sōji-ji. During the Tokugawa period, Eiheiji had approximately 1,300 affiliate temples compared to Sōji-ji's 16,200. Furthermore, out of the more than 14,000 temples of the Sōtō sect today, 13,850 of those identify themselves as affiliates of Sōji-ji. Additionally, most of the some 148 temples that are affiliates of Eiheiji today are only minor temples located in Hokkaido— founded during a period of colonization during the Meiji period. Therefore, it is often said that Eiheiji is a head temple only in the sense that it is \"head of all Sōtō dharma lineages.\n\nIn an advice to western practitioners, Kojun Kishigami Osho, a dharma heir of Kodo Sawaki, writes:\nThe Rinzai-school has 14 main-temples, to which subsidiary temples are attached. The 14 branches of Rinzai, by head temple, are:\n\nSometimes a 15th is included:\n\nIn the western understanding, dharma transmission is primarily the affirmation of awakening by a teacher. But is also part of the continuation and maintenance of Zen-institutions.\n\nAccording to Borup the emphasis on 'mind to mind transmission' is a form of esoteric transmission, in which \"the tradition and the enlightened mind is transmitted face to face\". Metaphorically this can be described as the transmission from a flame from one candle to another candle, or the transmission from one vein to another.\n\nExoteric transmission requires \"direct access to the teaching through a personal discovery of one's self. This type of transmission and identification is symbolized by the discovery of a shining lantern, or a mirror.\"\n\nThis polarity is recognizable in the emphasis that the Zen-tradition puts on maintaining the correct Dharma transmission, while simultaneously stressing seeing into one's nature. Seeing one's nature gives an autonomous confirmation of Zen's ultimate truth, which may conflict with the need to maintain institutions and traditions.\n\nAccording to Bodiford, \"Zen is the predominant form of Buddhism because of dharma transmission\":\nBodiford distinguishes seven dimension which are discernible in both family relationships and in dharma lineages:\n\nThe family-model is easier recognized when East Asian languages are being used, because the same terminology is used to describe both earthly and spiritual family relations.\n\nIn Soto, dharma transmission establishes a lifelong relation between teacher and student. To qualify as a Zen priest, further training is required.\n\nIn Rinzai, the most common form of transmission is the acknowledgement that one has stayed in the monastery for a certain amount of time, and may later become a temple priest. The common transmission does not include \"inka shōmei\", which is being used for the transmission of the \"true lineage\" of the masters (\"shike\") of the training halls. Training halls are temples which are authorised for further training after being qualified as a temple priest. There are only about fifty to a hundred of such \"inka shōmei\"-bearers in Japan.\n\nAlthough the formal transmission of the dharma-lineage, from Shakyamuni Buddha to the present day, is preserved in this way, it is also seen as problematical in contemporary Zen.\n\nThe Zen tradition has always stressed the importance of formal Dharma transmission, but there are indeed well known examples of Mushi dokugo, self-awakening, such as Nōnin, Jinul and Suzuki Shōsan who attained awakening on their own, though all of them were familiair with the Zen-teachings.\n\nBoth Soto and Rinzai have educational institutions, such as Komazawa University and Hanazono University, which stand in strong competition. Several Zen-teachers known in the west have studied there, such as Shohaku Okumura and Keido Fukushima. The Kyoto University was the centre of activities for the Kyoto School, to which belong Keiji Nishitani and Masao Abe.\n\nWestern Zen is mainly a lay-movement, though grounded in formal lineages. Its Japanese background is in mainly lay-oriented new religious movements, especially the Sanbo Kyodan. Though a number of zen-buddhist monasteries exist in the western world, most practice takes place in Zen centers throughout the western world.\n\nKoné sees three issues in the emerging western Zen tradition: sustainability, legitimacy, and authority.\n\nA recurrent issue has been the reliance on charismatic authority and the resulting teacher scandals. Sandra Bell has analysed the scandals at Vajradhatu and the San Francisco Zen Center and concluded that these kinds of scandals are\nRobert Sharf also mentions charisma from which institutional power is derived, and the need to balance charismatic authority with institutional authority. Elaborate analyses of these scandals are made by Stuart Lachs, who mentions the uncritical acceptance of religious narratives, such as lineages and dharma transmission, which aid in giving uncritical charismatic powers to teachers and leaders.\n\nThe scandals eventually lead to rules of conduct by the American Zen Teachers Association, and the reorganising of Zen Centers, to spread the management of those centers over a wider group of people and diminish the role of charismatic authority. Another affect was the split in various Zen organisations, such as Robert Aitken leaving the Sanbo Kyodan, and Joko Beck leaving the White Plum Sangha.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23876246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23876246", "title": "České nebe", "text": "České nebe\n\nČeské nebe (English: Czech Heaven) is a stage play from the repertoire of Jára Cimrman Theatre, sub-titled \"Cimrman's Dramatic Testament\". The authors are Zdeněk Svěrák and Ladislav Smoljak and like co-author is presented fictional Czech gadgeteer, philosopher and dramatic Jára Cimrman. The play premiered on 28 October 2008 in the Žižkov Theatre of Jára Cimrman. The play was nominated in the Alfréd Radok Awards in 2008.\n\n- in brackets are captured the characters which are usually depicted by the actor presenting given part of the lecture\n\nThe original play followed which its described conference of Czech Heaven Commission in World War I. The principal is Saint Václav and another members are J. A. Komenský, Forefather Čech, Karel Havlíček Borovský, Jan Hus, Grandmother of Božena Němcová.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18392405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18392405", "title": "İbrahim Özdemir", "text": "İbrahim Özdemir\n\nİbrahim Özdemir (born January 1, 1960), author of \"The Ethical Dimension of Human Attitude Towards Nature\" (1997) and co-editor of \"Globalization, Ethics and Islam\" (2005), is an environmentalist and professor of philosophy and ecology and religion at Ankara University, Turkey, and Director General of the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of National Education, Turkey.\n\nÖzdemir was born on January 1, 1960 in İslahiye, Gaziantep Province, Turkey. His father, Mustafa, was a farmer and illiterate man. His mother, Ayşe, was a housewife. He grew up in İslahiye and Mardin, where he attended a state boarding school (1974–78).\n\nIn 1980 he entered Divinity School of Ankara University, where he studied Islamic Philosophy, Theology, Intellectual History, and graduated in 1985. He started graduate studies at METU (Middle East Technical University), Department of Philosophy, Ankara. He studied for eleven years at METU to complete his studies. He studied with Teo Grünberg, Ahmet İnam, Alparslan Açıkgenç, Yasin Ceylan, Akın Ergüden, and Cemil Akdoğan. During his studies he had to worked as a consultant to the Prime Ministry’s General Directorate of State Archives, (1987-1992).\n\nHe received his Ph.D. from METU in 1996. He presented his major paper, “Towards An Understanding Of Environmental Ethic From A Qur’anic Perspective”, to an International Conference on “Islam and Ecology” at Harvard University and later published as a chapter in \"Islam and Ecology\", (Cambridge: Harvard Pres, 2003).\n\nHe has traveled widely in the Muslim world and the West. He was visiting professor of Islamic Studies at Hartford University and Hartford Seminary. He lectured with Mary E. Tucker, at a seminar on Religion and Ecology at Gadjah Mada University, Jogyakarta, Indonesia, August 9–16, 2005.\n\nHe gives many public lectures and workshops in Turkey, Europe, the United States and other countries. His father died in 1988, and his mother died in 2009. He addresses different audiences about topics related to the philosophy of religion, world religions, environmental philosophy, sustainable development, religion and the environment, interreligious and intercultural dialogue and education.\n\nÖzdemir is known for his studies in environmental philosophy in general and Islamic environmentalism in particular. After finishing his dissertation, The Ethical Dimension of Human Attitude Towards Nature (1997), he focused on Religion and Ecology. He founded an elective course on Religion and Ecology at Ankara University, which was later accepted by many universities in Turkey. He presented papers on this topic and participated panel discussions and workshops at home and abroad. Discovering and understanding the meaning of biodiversity for a sustainable ecology, he comes to understand and appreciate the full implication of cultural diversity for a sustainable human society. Then, he began to study Rumis’s work, the greatest Muslim poet and Sufi of the 13th century. \nRumî’s philosophy and ideas have made a profound impact on his perception of nature. For Rumî, a force—a secret energy—lies beneath the spiritual and material world, informing the invisible, progressive change in the universe (humanity included). This force is love, and it originates in God and moves towards God. The meaning of this understanding is clear for an environmentalist: Everything in the universe is interdependent and interconnected; everything’s well being is dependent on everything else.\n\nIn his first major work, The Ethical Dimension of Human Attitude Towards Nature, Özdemir suggested that there is a philosophical and ethical dimension to environmental problems. While the technological, scientific and other relevant dimensions of the problem are acknowledged, the main emphasis is given to the ethical dimension of the issue at hand. In addition, it is also argued that there is a direct and strong relationship between environmental problems and our understanding of nature. In other words, our treatment of and attitude towards natural objects mostly depend on how we understand and conceptualize the natural world as such. \nOne of his major articles “The Development of Environmental Consciousness in Modern Turkey”, was published in \"Environmentalism in Muslim World\", (ed. Richard Foltz, New York: Nova, 2005). He also contributed with three etnries, “The Prophet Muhammad”, “Rumi”, and “Said Nursi” to in Encyclopedia of Religion and Nature, ed. Bron Taylor and Jeffrey Kaplan (New York: Continuum, 2003).\nHis other works mainly were in Turkish and primarily focused on environmental and cultural studies. After working at the Ministry of National Education as Director General, he also interested in education in a comprehensive way and represented the Ministry at International Conferences held by UNESCO, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Council of Europe, European Union, etc.\n\nÖzdemir is the founder President of Society for Intercultural Research and Friendship, (1995).\n\n\n\n»“Towards An Understanding Of Environmental Ethic From A Qur’anic Perspective”, ed. Richard Foltz (Harvard University Press, 2003), pp. 1–37.. PDF\n»“The Development of Environmental Consciousness in Modern Turkey”, Environmentalism in Muslim World, ed. Richard Foltz, New York: Nova, 2005, pp. 17–36.\n»“Science and Environment: Is Science Responsible for the Environmental Crisis?” The Journal of the Environment and Social Sciences, vol.1, no. 1-2, 1996. PDF\n»“The Concept of Islamic Tradition in Fazlu Rahman’s Thought”, The American Journal of Social Sciences, vol. 9, no. 2, Summer 1992. PDF\n»“Cevre-Ahlak Iliskisi”, (Environment and Ethics). Felsefe Dunyası, Kıs sayı: 14, 1994.\n»\"Islam Felsefesinin Gunumuzdeki Sorunlari\". (The Problems of Contemporary Islamic Philosophy) Gunumuz Din Bilimleri Arastirmalari Sempozyumu. Samsun, 1989.\n»\"Postmodern Baglamda Bilim Din Iliskisi\", (Religion and Science in the Postmodern Context) Kopru, No:53, Kis 1996.\n»“Islam and the Environment”, Bridge (a forum on Christian-Muslim Relations), September 1998, New York. PDF\n»“Çevre Hukukunun Antropocentik Karakteri” I. Ulusal Çevre Hukuku Kongresine sunulan tebliğ, 23 Kasım 1996, Ankara. PDF\n»“Demokratik Eğtimi Üzerine”, (Internalizing Democratic Education), Paper presented to a Panel on Towards A Democratic Education, Nov., 11, 2000, Ankara. PDF\n»Doğayı “evimiz” Olarak Algılamak: Neo-Konfüçyüsçülüğün Çevre Etiği Üzerine ODTU 1. Ulusal Uygulamalı Etik Kongresi 12-13 Kasım, 2001 PDF\n»A.D. Knysh, Ibn'Arabi in the Later Islamic Tradition, (New York: State University of New York Press, 1999. the Muslim World, 2003.\n\n»Intellectual Traditions in Islam, ed. Farhad Daftary, (London-New York: I.B. Tauris Publishers, 2001. xvii plus 252 pp. Forthcoming, the Muslim World, 2003. PDF\n\n»The Problem of Evil: Ibn Sina's Theodicy, (Binghamton, N.Y.: Global Publications, 2000). ix plus 215 pp. the Muslim World, 2003. PDF\n\n»“The Development of Environmental Consciousness in Modern Turkey”, Environmentalism in Muslim World, ed. Richard Foltz, New York: Nova, 2005. PDF\n\n»\"Religious Education in Turkey”, 22 Temmuz-2 Ağustos tarihlerinde ODTU Felsefe Bölümü-Hollanda Eğitim Bakanlığınca, Hollandalı Öğretmenler için Düzenlenen Seminere Sunulan Tebliğ.\n»“Osmanlı Toplumunda Çevre Anlayışı” Türkler, edt. H.C. Güzel-K. Çiçek, Ankara: Yeni Turkiye Yayınları, c. 10. PDF\n\n\n"}
