{"id": "352164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352164", "title": "Akaza Naoyasu", "text": "Akaza Naoyasu\n\nNaoyasu then served Toyotomi Hideyoshi. He took part in capturing Iwatsuki Castle and Oshi Castle at Musashi Province in the siege of Odawara, and was given 20,000 \"koku\". After that, based in Imajo, Echizen Province, he supported Kobayakawa Hideaki and Horio Yoshiharu.\n\nIn 1600 at the Battle of Sekigahara, he was under Ōtani Yoshitsugu, who led part of Ishida Mitsunari's force. However, taking advantage of Kobayakawa Hideaki's betrayal, he switched sides with Wakisaka Yasuharu, Kutsuki Mototsuna and Ogawa Suketada. Together, they defeated Yoshitsugu's force. After the battle, Tokugawa Ieyasu did not give Naoyasu credit and seized his domain. Because of that, Naoyasu became a retainer of Maeda Toshinaga, and was given a stipend of 7,000 koku.\n\nIn 1606, looking over flooded Daimon River, in Etchū Province, he fell off a horse and died by drowning. Naoyasu was survived by his son, . Takaharu changed his family name to , and became a retainer of the Maeda clan of Kaga. The family remained retainers of the Maeda until the Meiji Restoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "42140247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42140247", "title": "Al-Hasan ibn al-Fairuzan", "text": "Al-Hasan ibn al-Fairuzan\n\nAl-Hasan ibn al-Fairuzan (fl. 10th century) was a Daylamite prince from the Firuzanid family.\n\nAl-Hasan was the son of Fairuzan, a Daylamite soldier, who along with his brother Kaki served the Alid dynasties of northern Iran. In 902, both of them were killed during a Samanid invasion of Tabaristan. Kaki had a son named Makan ibn Kaki, who together with al-Hasan served the Alids. Makan had established family ties through marriage with the Alids, as Ja'far, the son of imam Hasan ibn Ali al-Utrush (r. 914–917), was his son-in-law. The latter was engaged in a complex struggle against al-Utrush's designated successor Abu Muhammad Hasan ibn Qasim, known as the \"Da'i ila'l-Haqq\" (r. 917–928), and it was not until 923 that Ja'far and his brother Ahmad succeeded in ousting the \"Da'i\" and forcing him to exile. When Ja'far died in 924, he left the throne to Ahmad's son Abu Ali Muhammad, but al-Hasan and Makan deposed Muhammad and installed al-Hasan's half-brother Ismail, a son of Ja'far and the mother of al-Hasan, in his place. Muhammad, however, managed to escape from his captors and with the aid of the Gilaki military chief Asfar ibn Shiruya, who had seized control of Gurgan, defeated the two brothers and retook his throne.\n\nIn 930, Makan managed to recover Tabaristan, and appointed al-Hasan as the governor of the region. Makan also made Abu Muhammad Hasan ibn Qasim the imam of the Alids. A fake rumor later spread about the death of Makan, which made al-Hasan, who wanted to install his half-brother Ismail as the imam, rise into rebellion. However, the rebellion failed after Ismail was poisoned at the instigation of Abu Ja'far Husayn's mother. Al-Hasan was shortly driven out from Amol by two officers of Makan named Abu Ali and Abu Musa. Al-Hasan then fled to Daylam. Makan was himself shortly driven out from Tabaristan by the Ziyarid ruler Mardavij.\n\nIn 935, Mardavij was assassinated and succeeded by his brother Vushmgir. Makan was appointed by his new overlords, the Samanids, as the governor of Gurgan. Vushmgir himself shortly recognized Samanid suzerainty, and Al-Hasan was appointed as the governor of Sari. Relations between Makan and Vushmgir improved to the point where the former felt secure enough to drop his dependence on the Samanids. As a result, in 939 a Samanid army under Abu 'Ali Chaghani attacked him at Gurgan. Following a seven-month siege of his capital, Makan was forced to flee to Rayy. The Samanid army pursued him, and in a battle fought on 25 December 940 at Iskhabad near Rayy, the Samanid forces were victorious. Makan himself was killed by an arrow, and then beheaded by the victors, who sent his head to the Samanid court in Bukhara.\n\nVushmgir, after the disastrous defeat, fled back to Tabaristan, but al-Hasan, who blamed Vushmgir for the death of his cousin, shortly rebelled against him. Vushmgir managed to defeat him, but al-Hasan convinced Abu 'Ali Chaghani to invade Tabaristan. Vushmgir was forced to recognize Samanid authority again.\n\nWhen Abu 'Ali Chaghani left for Samanid Khurasan, Vushmgir retook control of Ray. He then lost it for good in 943, to the Buyid ruler Hasan. Returning to Tabaristan, he was defeated there by al-Hasan, who had previously occupied Gurgan. Vushmgir fled to the court of the Bavandid Shahriyar II, and then to the court of the Samanid Nuh I. Al-Hasan meanwhile allied with Hasan, but when Abu 'Ali Chaghani took Ray from the Buyids in 945, he recognized Samanid authority. Still, in 945 Vushmgir captured Gurgan with Samanid support, but did not manage to retain his rule there. It was only in 947 when he was able to take Gurgan and Tabaristan from al-Hasan with the help of a large Samanid army.\n\nIn 948, the Buyid ruler Hasan (who since the Buyids' entrance into Baghdad in 945 had used the title \"Rukn al-Dawla\") invaded Tabaristan and Gurgan and took them from Vushmgir. While al-Hasan supported the Buyids, Vushmgir relied on his Samanid allies. Al-Hasan thereafter disappears from the history chronicles, and is first mentioned again in 967 after the death of Vushmgir, as the ruler of Simnan, and aiding Vushmgir's son Qabus in his claims for the Ziyarid throne.\n\nThe fate of al-Hasan after this is unknown, he had two sons named Firuzan ibn al-Hasan and Nasr ibn al-Hasan. He also had a daughter who married Rukn al-Dawla, and bore him three sons named Abu'l-Hasan Ali, Buya ibn Hasan, and Fanna Khusraw.\n\n"}
{"id": "3614875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3614875", "title": "Ambelopoulia", "text": "Ambelopoulia\n\nAmbelopoulia is a controversial dish of grilled, fried, pickled or boiled songbirds which is a traditional dish enjoyed by native Cypriots and served in some Cypriot restaurants. It is illegal in Cyprus as it involves trapping wild birds such as blackcaps and European robins. Trapping kills birds indiscriminately, thus internationally protected species of migratory birds are killed as well. Enforcement of the ban has been lax, so many restaurants serve the dish without consequence. As a result almost 2,418,000 birds across the whole of Cyprus are estimated to have been killed during 2010. According to a BirdLife Cyprus report released in 2014, over 1.5 million migrating songbirds are killed annually, and the number is increasing each year. In 2015 it is estimated that over 2 million birds were killed including over 800,000 on the British Territories and a further 800,000 on the British Territories in the autumn of 2016.\n\nThe birds are trapped in either of two ways. Black, fine-mesh nylon fishing nets, which are difficult to see, are strung between planted acacia trees. Electronic bird calls lure the birds to entangle their wings and legs, or alternatively gravel is brought in by truck and is thrown at the base of the trees to scare the birds into the nets. Others are trapped using glue sticks made from the berries of a local tree or birdlime. The glue sticks are placed on the branches of trees, and any birds that perch on them are stuck until the trapper returns to kill them (usually with a tooth pick to the throat). Often the legs of the birds are so stuck to the glue sticks that they need to be pulled off. Protests against the removal of acacia scrub has resulted in 36 ha remaining in 2016, compared with 56 ha in 2014.\n\nThe trappers defend their activity by citing the practice as traditional Cypriot food gathering and claiming that this has been an important source of protein for the natives for many thousands of years, even though the practice has been illegal since 1974. BirdLife Cyprus has identified restaurants as the main culprits as they provide the financial incentives. The enthusiasm Cypriots and many other visitors to the island have for this delicacy despite its illegality has resulted in the development of a very profitable industry. Poaching for ambelopoulia has been on the rise in recent years, involving by 2011 a \"mafia-like operation\" that include poachers, dealers, exporters, and restaurant operators that participate in the illegal business estimated to be worth about 5 million euro at that time. The birds reportedly sell for five euros each and it is estimated by Cypriot authorities to have earned criminals on the island 15 million euro in 2015.\n\nSince the entrails of the birds are not removed, as it is not cost effective to do so, the consumer is encouraged to swallow the bird whole. Unsuspecting diners may be served much cheaper farmed birds such as immature quails by some restaurants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1182803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1182803", "title": "Arthur Blackburn", "text": "Arthur Blackburn\n\nBrigadier Arthur Seaforth Blackburn, (25 November 1892 – 24 November 1960) was a South Australian soldier, lawyer, politician, and an Australian recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces.\n\nBlackburn was born on 25 November 1892 at Woodville, South Australia. His parents were the cleric and entomologist Thomas Blackburn and his wife Margaret Harriette Stewart, \"née\" Browne. He was educated at Pulteney Grammar School, the Collegiate School of St Peter and the University of Adelaide (LL.B., 1913).\n\nIn 1914, Private Blackburn, a 21-year-old lawyer from Adelaide, was among the first to enlist in the \"Fighting 10th\" Battalion, and as a battalion scout he was among the first to land at Anzac Cove on 25 April 1915. Australia's official First World War historian, Charles Bean, noted that Blackburn, with Lance Corporal Robin, probably made it further inland than any other Australian soldiers \"whose movements are known\". Blackburn was commissioned as a second lieutenant at Gallipoli in August 1915, and served there for almost the entire campaign.\n\nOn 23 July 1916, at Pozières, France, the 23-year-old second lieutenant led an attack for which he was awarded the Victoria Cross. Blackburn was directed with 50 men to drive the enemy from a strong point. By great determination he captured 250 yards of trench, after personally leading four separate parties of bombers against it, many of whom became casualties. Then after crawling forward with a sergeant to reconnoitre, he returned, attacked again, and seized another 120 yards of trench to establish communication with the battalion on his left.\n\nBlackburn returned to Australia on 22 March 1917, married Rose Ada Kelly, and was discharged on medical grounds soon after.\n\nBlackburn returned to legal practice and took an active part in the pro-conscription campaigns. During 1918–21 he was National Party member for Sturt in the South Australian House of Assembly; he did not seek re-election in 1921.\n\nBlackburn was a founding member of the Returned Sailors', Soldiers' and Airmen's Imperial League in South Australia, where he served as president of the State branch from 1917–21. He joined the militia in 1924.\n\nIn 1933–47 Blackburn was city coroner, in which office he encountered and ignored criticism for refusing to offer public explanation for any decision not to hold an inquest.\n\nIn 1939, Blackburn was promoted to lieutenant colonel and took command of a motorised cavalry regiment, the 18th Light Horse (Machine Gun) Regiment. He ceased legal practice in 1940. He was appointed to command the 2/3rd Machine Gun Battalion, which fought under his command in Syria against the Vichy French in 1941. Blackburn, as the senior Allied officer present, accepted the surrender of Damascus on 21 June, and after the campaign was a member of the Allied Control Commission for Syria.\n\nIn February 1942, Blackburn landed with a small Australian force in Java. There he was promoted to brigadier and appointed to command 'Black Force', to assist the Dutch against the rapid Japanese advance.\n\nAfter three weeks' vigorous but fruitless resistance, and in spite of Blackburn's reluctance, the Allied forces surrendered on 9 March 1942. Blackburn was the senior officer of the Black Force prisoner group, which included 300 Australian seamen from . He remained a prisoner of war until September 1945 when he was liberated in Mukden, Manchuria, weak but not broken in health. In 1946 he was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire for his distinguished service in Java. He received his discharge in 1946.\nIn 1947–55 Blackburn served as a conciliation commissioner in the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, and again as State president of the Returned and Services League from 1946–1949.\n\nFor his services to the community, he was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1955.\n\nBlackburn died on 24 November 1960 at Crafers, South Australia from a ruptured aneurism of the common iliac artery, and was buried in the Australian Imperial Force section of Adelaide's West Terrace Cemetery. His Victoria Cross is displayed at the Australian War Memorial, Canberra.\n\nHe was a freemason.\n\nBlackburn was awarded:\n\n"}
{"id": "33529387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33529387", "title": "Artificial intuition", "text": "Artificial intuition\n\nArtificial intuition is a theoretical capacity of an artificial software to function similarly to human consciousness, specifically in the capacity of human consciousness known as intuition. \n\nIntuition is the function of the mind, the experience of which, is described as knowledge based on \"a hunch\", resulting (as the word itself does) from \"contemplation\" or \"insight\". \n\nPsychologist Jean Piaget showed that intuitive functioning within the normally developing human child at the \"Intuitive Thought Substage\" of the preoperational stage occurred at from four to seven years of age. In Carl Jung's concept of synchronicity, the concept of \"intuitive intelligence\" is described as something like a capacity that transcends ordinary-level functioning to a point where information is understood with a greater depth than is available in more simple rationally-thinking entities.\n\nArtificial intuition is theoretically (or otherwise) a sophisticated function of an artifice that is able to interpret data with depth and locate hidden factors functioning in Gestalt psychology, and that intuition in the artificial mind would, in the context described here, be a bottom-up process upon a macroscopic scale identifying something like the archetypal (see ).\n\nTo create artificial intuition supposes the possibility of the re-creation of a higher functioning of the human mind, with capabilities such as what might be found in semantic memory and learning. The transferral of the functioning of a biological system to synthetic functioning is based upon modeling of functioning from knowledge of cognition and the brain, for instance as applications of models of artificial neural networks from the research done within the discipline of computational neuroscience.\n\nThe notion of a process of a data-interpretative has already been found in a computational-linguistic software application that has been created for use in an internal security context. The software integrates computed data based specifically on objectives incorporating a paradigm described as \"religious intuitive\" (hermeneutic), functional to a degree that represents advances upon the performance of \"generic lexical\" data mining. \n\nVeeramachaneni and others at MIT developed a machine which performed comparably to humans in a test of intuitive intelligence during 2015.\n\nArtificial intelligence in fiction often crosses the line to apparent artificial intuition, although it can't be shown if the intent of the fiction creator was to show a simulation of intuition or that real artificial intuition is part of the story's AI, because this depends on the internal structure of the programming of the AI, which is not usually shown in stories.\n\n\n\nThe Oxford Companion to Philosophy - E. Honderich (Oxford University Press, 1995) \n\n"}
{"id": "5767346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5767346", "title": "Basil Sydney", "text": "Basil Sydney\n\nBasil Sydney (23 April 1894 – 10 January 1968) was an English stage and screen actor.\n\nSydney made his name in 1915 in the London stage hit \"Romance\" by Edward Sheldon, opposite the play's Broadway star Doris Keane, and costarred with Keane in the 1920 silent film of the play. The couple married in 1918, and when Keane revived \"Romance\" in New York in 1921, Sydney made his Broadway debut in the parts. He stayed in New York for over a decade playing classical roles like Mercutio in \"Romeo and Juliet\" (1922), Richard Dudgeon in \"The Devil's Disciple\" (1923), the title role in \"Hamlet\" (1923), Prince Hal in \"Henry IV, Part I\" (1926), and Petruchio in \"Taming of the Shrew\" (1927).\n\nHe made over fifty screen appearances, most memorably as Claudius in Laurence Olivier's 1948 film of \"Hamlet.\" He also appeared in classic films like \"Treasure Island\" (1950), \"Ivanhoe\" (1952), and \"Around the World in Eighty Days\" (1956), but the focus of his career was the legitimate stage on both sides of the Atlantic.\n\nIn 1925, Sydney divorced Keane; four years later, in 1929, he married actress Mary Ellis, and the couple moved to England. There he concentrated more on film than on theatre work. In the 1940s, he married English film actress Joyce Howard; they had three children. \n\nA heavy smoker, Sydney died from pleurisy in 1968, aged 73.\n\n"}
{"id": "938544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938544", "title": "Bill Romanowski", "text": "Bill Romanowski\n\nWilliam Thomas Romanowski (born April 2, 1966) is a former American football linebacker. He played in the National Football League (NFL) for the San Francisco 49ers, Philadelphia Eagles, Denver Broncos, and Oakland Raiders.\n\nRomanowski was born in Vernon, Connecticut. He graduated from Rockville High School in 1984 and Boston College in 1988 with academic honors, and was a Scanlan Award recipient.\n\nRomanowski went on to a 16-year career in the NFL, playing for the San Francisco 49ers (1988–1993), Philadelphia Eagles (1994–1995), Denver Broncos (1996–2001), and Oakland Raiders (2002–2003). After his career, he was listed by ESPN as the fifth dirtiest player in professional team sports history.\n\nRomanowski played 243 consecutive games during the 1988-2003 seasons, an NFL record that stood until Chris Gardocki broke it during the 2006 season, finishing his career with 265, (256 reg. season and 9 playoff games). He won 4 Super Bowl Championships, and played 5 Super Bowls (Super Bowl XXIII, Super Bowl XXIV, Super Bowl XXXII, Super Bowl XXXIII and Super Bowl XXXVII). \n\nDuring his 16-year career, Romanowski compiled 1,105 tackles, 39.5 sacks, 18 forced fumbles, and 18 interceptions, which he returned for a net total of 98 yards and 1 career touchdown. Romanowski was a Pro Bowl selection twice, in 1996 and 1998, both during his tenure with the Denver Broncos.\n\nRomanowski was involved in numerous altercations with both teammates and opponents. In 1995, while with the Eagles, he was ejected from a game — and subsequently fined $4,500 — for kicking Arizona Cardinals fullback Larry Centers in the head.\n\nTwo more incidents occurred during the 1997 season while he played for the Broncos. In the first, he was fined $20,000 after a helmet-to-helmet hit on then-Carolina Panthers quarterback Kerry Collins in a preseason game resulting in Collins sustaining a broken jaw. \n\nIn the second incident, Romanowski spat in the face of 49ers wide receiver J. J. Stokes in a regular-season game played in December on a Monday night in response to Stokes' taunting. \n\nTwo years later, while still with the Broncos, he was fined a total of $42,500 for three illegal hits plus a punch thrown at Kansas City Chiefs tight end Tony Gonzalez, and was also fined an undisclosed amount for throwing a football at Bryan Cox of the New York Jets, the ball hitting him in the crotch area.\n\nIn 2003, Romanowski attacked and injured one of his teammates, Marcus Williams, during a scrimmage. Williams, a backup tight end for the Oakland Raiders, was forced to retire after Romanowski confronted Williams after a play, ripped off his helmet, and crushed his eye socket with a punch. \n\nWilliams sued for damages of $3.4 million, arguing that Romanowski had been suffering from \"roid rage\" when he attacked him. Williams was awarded $340,000 for lost wages and medical expenses by a jury. Williams was quoted as saying he and his lawyers \"just wanted to prove what was right and wrong about football\". Williams's attorney said he was very pleased with the verdict.\n\nRomanowski has been accused of being racist at many points during his career and after retirement. Various media critics have pointed to his fines for actions including kicking Larry Centers in the head in 1995, spitting on San Francisco 49er receiver J.J. Stokes in 1997, and ripping Eddie George's helmet off in 2002, as evidence. \n\nRomanowski called Carolina Panthers starting quarterback Cam Newton \"boy\" in a tweet after Newton's team lost in Super Bowl 50 and Newton conducted a very brief press interview. He later apologized after he was accused of being racist.\n\nRomanowski co-authored an autobiography in 2005 titled \"Romo My Life on the Edge: Living Dreams and Slaying Dragons\". The book became a \"New York Times\" best selling book in 2005. It chronicles his childhood, college, and his playing times in the NFL. \n\nHe was featured on the cover of the Midway Games title \"\" and adds his voice as Bruno Battaglia, a linebacker in the game who wears his 53. He also appears in NCAA Football Series indirectly as LB #53 for the 1984 Boston College Eagles. \n\nIn 2006, he founded Nutrition 53, a nutritional supplement company. He is also a minority owner of NASCAR's Swan Racing in 2013. His own company Nutrition53 sponsored the team in 10 races in 2013.\n\nIn 2008, Romanowski was the defensive coordinator for the Piedmont High School (California) Highlanders Freshman Football team, where his son played.\n\nIn January 2009, Romanowski threw his name into the search for Mike Shanahan's replacement as the head coach of the Denver Broncos. Romanowski sent a 30-page PowerPoint presentation to team owner Pat Bowlen, but was not considered for the job. The job was ultimately given to Josh McDaniels.\n\nRomanowski and his wife were investigated for prescription drug fraud, though the charges were later dropped. Records seized by the government belonging to the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative, later discovered to be the source of a designer steroid, indicate that he had used the anabolic steroid \"The Clear\" and synthetic testosterone ointment \"The Cream\" provided by BALCO since 2003. Romanowski admitted to staying a step ahead of NFL drug testing policies. In an October 16, 2005 appearance on \"60 Minutes\", Romanowski admitted to using steroids and human growth hormone that he received from Victor Conte, BALCO owner.\n\nRomanowski starred in the remake of \"The Longest Yard\" as one of the prison guards.\n"}
{"id": "29362856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29362856", "title": "Bullet fee", "text": "Bullet fee\n\nA bullet fee is a charge/fee levied to the family of executed prisoners. Bullet fees have been levied in Iran, as well as in China, to the families of executed prisoners.\n\n"}
{"id": "5292779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5292779", "title": "Capital punishment in the Czech Republic", "text": "Capital punishment in the Czech Republic\n\nCapital punishment (\"trest smrti\" in Czech) is forbidden by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the Czech Republic (part of the constitutional law of the Czech Republic) and is simultaneously prohibited by international legal obligations arising from the Czech Republic's membership of both the Council of Europe and the European Union.\n\nHistorically the capital punishment was legal, and was used, when the Czech Republic was part of Czechoslovak Federation, until the punishment was abolished by amendment of the federal criminal code in 1990. The last execution was carried out in 1989.\n\nCapital punishment was common under the Austrian Monarchy, with a short exception from 1787 to 1795 under the rule of Joseph II, in Austria-Hungary, and from 1918 in the newly created Czechoslovakia. During the period from 1918 to 1989, a total of 1,217 people were executed legally, the majority of them (61%) immediately after World War II, many others (21%) were executed from political reasons during the terror in early years of communist rule and the rest of the executed people were convinced criminals (18%).\n\nThe common method of execution during the whole period was pole hanging. Other methods of hanging or firing squad were rare. Following the abolition of the open-air execution areas in 1954, a execution cell was built in the basement of the Pankrác Prison, where executions were carried out until 1989. The device in Pankrác's \"death chamber\" was a simple noose attached to the wall with the remotely operated trapdoor in the floor.\n\nDuring the presidency of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk (1918–35) 16 people were executed, incl. 4 for military treason. Masaryk was an opponent of capital punishment and had the privilege of commuting death sentences, one he exercised frequently. His successor Edvard Beneš signed the death sentences for 8 people, incl. 3 for military treason. After his resignation 2 more criminals were executed before the occupation of the country.\n\nDuring the time of German occupation thousands were executed and hundreds of thousands were killed without any trial. Though the summary executions happened only rare (in comparation to other countries occupied by Germans), such occasions happened nearly every year (see the massacres in during World War). In Prague Pankrác prison 1079 were guillotined or hanged, about 550 were shot in Prague-Kobylisy, about 800 were shot or hanged in Brno, about 300 were shot or hanged in Theresienstadt-Small Fortress etc. Hundreds of Czech people were also tried and executed in German prisons, such as Dresden (846 people) or Berlin-Plötzensee (677 people). Thousands other were killed by hanging, gas chambers or shot in the Nazi concentration camps.\n\nIn the period of German occupation, only 3 criminals were sentenced to death and executed by Czech courts.\n\nAfter World War II, based on the Beneš decrees, special courts at the local level (\"lidové soudy\", \"people's courts\") were set up to punish war crimes and collaboration. Until 1948 they sentenced 713 people to death. Another 10 people were executed for common crimes.\n\nDuring the presidency of Klement Gottwald (1948–53) 237 people were executed, of whom over 190 for political crimes. Gottwald pardoned 18 people. Among the best known of those executed are Milada Horáková, a politician, hanged in 1950. The widely publicised Prague Trials with former party's general secretary Rudolf Slánský resulted in 11 executions.\n\nDuring this period hundreds of other people died due to cruel conditions in prisons and concentration camps such as the Concentration camp in Jáchymov.\n\nDuring the presidency of Antonín Zápotocký (1953–57) 94 people were executed. That figure fell to 87 people during Antonín Novotný's presidency (1957–68), 14 people during the presidency of Ludvík Svoboda (1968–1975, including a period during which Prime Minister Lubomír Štrougal acted as President in ill Svodoba's absence) and then to 38 people during that of Gustáv Husák (1975–89).\n\nFrom 1954 to 1968 all executions were carried out in Pankrác Prison, Prague; after 1968 some took place in Bratislava. In 1956 the number of crimes punishable by death was reduced and mandatory review of sentences was introduced. In 1961 a law made the conditions for capital punishment more strict, with only especially brutal murders punishable by death. The last execution in Czechoslovakia took place on 8 June 1989, when Štefan Svitek was hanged in Bratislava prison for triple murder; in today's Czech Republic the last executed person was Vladimír Lulek, hanged on 2 February 1989 in Pankrác Prison for murder of his wife and four children. The last person sentenced to death was Zdeněk Vocásek, but his sentence was changed to life imprisonment in 1990.\n\nSoon after the Communist party fell from power in 1989 the new president Václav Havel pushed the abolition of the capital punishment through parliament. A May 1990 criminal law reform replaced capital punishment with life imprisonment. Furthermore in January 1991 capital punishment became prohibited by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which became part of the Czechoslovak constitutional law and since the dissolution of Czechoslovakia remains part of the Czech constitutional law.\n\nCapital punishment in the Czech Republic is simultaneously prohibited by international legal obligations arising from the Czech Republic's membership of both the Council of Europe and the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "147972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147972", "title": "Carlo Gambino", "text": "Carlo Gambino\n\nCarlo \"Don Carlo\" Gambino (August 24, 1902 – October 15, 1976) was a Sicilian-American mobster and boss of the Gambino crime family, which is still named after him. After the 1957 Apalachin Convention, he unexpectedly seized control of the Commission of the American Mafia.\n\nGambino was inconspicuous and secretive. In 1937 Gambino was convicted of tax evasion but had his sentence suspended. He lived to the age of 74, when he died of a heart attack in bed \"in a state of grace,\" according to a priest who had given him the Last Rites of the Catholic Church.\n\nCarlo Gambino was born in the city of Palermo, Sicily, in 1902, to a family that belonged to the Honored Society. The Honored Society was slightly more complicated than the Black Hand of the United States, which was often confused with the American Mafia. The Black Hand, much like the pre-1920s Mafia, was a highly disorganized version of the real European Mafia. Once Benito Mussolini chased a large number of real mafiosi out of Italy, Italian-Americans such as Gambino benefited from the new, better-organized Mafia. Gambino began carrying out murder orders for new mob bosses in his teens. In 1921, at the age of 19, he became a \"made man\" and was inducted into Cosa Nostra. He was later known as an \"original.\" He was a cousin and brother-in-law of Gambino crime family mobster Paul Castellano. He had two brothers, Gaspare Gambino, who was never involved with the Mafia, and Paolo Gambino who played a major role in his brother's family.\n\nGambino entered the United States on December 23, 1921, at Norfolk, Virginia, the lone passenger aboard the ship SS \"Vincenzo Florio\", and an illegal immigrant. He ate nothing but anchovies and wine during the month-long trip and joined his cousins, the Castellanos, in New York City. There he joined a crime family headed by Salvatore \"Toto\" D'Aquila, one of the larger crime families in the city. Gambino's uncle, Giuseppe Castellano, also joined the D'Aquila family around this time.\n\nGambino also became involved with the \"Young Turks,\" a group of Americanized Italian and Jewish mobsters in New York which included Frank \"Prime Minister\" Costello, Albert \"Mad Hatter\" Anastasia, Frank Scalice, Gaetano \"Tommy Three-Finger Brown\" Lucchese, Joe Adonis, Vito Genovese, Meyer Lansky, Benjamin \"Bugsy\" Siegel, and Charles \"Lucky\" Luciano, one of the future's most powerful mob bosses. The crew became involved in robbery, thefts, and illegal gambling. However, with their new partner, Arnold \"The Brain\" Rothstein, they turned to bootlegging during Prohibition in the early 1920s. Gambino also made a sizable profit during World War II by bribing Office of Price Administration (OPA) officials for ration stamps, which he then sold on the black market.\n\nBy 1926, Luciano was considered to be a powerful gangster on the rise. His immediate superior, Giuseppe \"Joe the Boss\" Masseria, was coming into conflict with Salvatore Maranzano, a recent arrival from Palermo who was born in Castellammare del Golfo. When Maranzano arrived in New York in 1925, his access to money and manpower led him to become involved in bootlegging, extortion and gambling operations that directly competed with Masseria. On October 10, 1928, Masseria eliminated his top rival for the coveted title of \"capo di tutti capi\" (\"boss of bosses\"), Brooklyn boss Salvatore D'Aquila. However, Masseria still had to deal with the powerful Maranzano and his Castellammarese clan. Gambino was thrown right into the line of fire.\n\nMasseria demanded absolute loyalty from the other criminals in his area and killed anyone who failed to comply. In 1930, Masseria demanded a $10,000 tribute from Maranzano's then-boss, Nicolo \"Cola\" Schirò, and supposedly got it. Schirò fled New York in fear, leaving Maranzano as the new leader. By 1931, a series of killings in New York involving Castellammarese clan members and associates caused Maranzano and his family to declare war against Masseria and his allies. D'Aquila's family, now headed by Alfred Mineo, sided with Masseria. In addition to Gambino, other prominent members of this family included Luciano associates Albert Anastasia and Frank Scalice. The Castellammarese clan included Joseph \"Joe Bananas\" Bonanno and Stefano Magaddino, the Profaci crime family, which included Joe Profaci and Joseph Magliocco – Bonanno's cousin – along with former Masseria allies the Reina family, which included Gaetano \"Tom\" Reina, Tommaso \"Tommy\" Gagliano, and Gaetano \"Tommy\" Lucchese.\n\nThe Castellammarese War raged on between the Masseria and Maranzano factions for almost two years, devastating the Prohibition era operations and street rackets that the five New York families controlled along with the Irish and Jewish crime groups. The war cut into gang profits and, in some cases, completely destroyed the underworld rackets of crime family members.\n\nSeveral Young Turks on both sides realized that if the war did not stop soon, the Italian families could be left on the fringe of New York's criminal underworld while the Jewish and Irish crime bosses became dominant. Additionally, they felt that Masseria, Maranzano, and other old-school mafiosi, whom they derisively called \"Mustache Petes,\" were too greedy to see the riches that could be had by working with non-Italians. With this in mind, Gambino and the other Young Turks decided to end the war and form a national syndicate. On April 15, 1931, Masseria was gunned down at Nuova Villa Tammaro restaurant in Coney Island by Anastasia, Joe Adonis, Vito Genovese, and Bugsy Siegel. Maranzano then named himself \"capo di tutti capi\". In the major reorganization of the New York Mafia that followed, Frank Scalise was appointed by Maranzano but demoted & replaced by Vincent \"The Executioner\" Mangano on orders from Luciano. Mangano took over the Mineo family, with Anastasia as his underboss, brother Phil as Consigliere, and Gambino as a capo. They kept these posts after Maranzano was fatally stabbed and shot on September 10, 1931.\n\nIn 1931, after the killings of Masseria and Maranzano, Lucky Luciano created the Commission, which was supposed to avoid big conflicts like the Castellammarese War. The charter members were Luciano, Joseph Bonanno, Joe Profaci, Tommy Gagliano and Vincent Mangano.\n\nGambino married his first cousin, Catherine Castellano, on December 5, 1926. They raised four children – sons Thomas, Joseph and Carlo, and a daughter, Phyllis. Gambino became a major earner in the Mangano family. His activities included loansharking, illegal gambling and protection money from area merchants. Despite this, Gambino was low-key by inclination. He lived in a modest, well-kept row house in Brooklyn. The only real evidence of vanity was his license plate on his Buick, CG1.\n\nVincent Mangano led his family for 20 years, even though he and Albert Anastasia never saw eye-to-eye. Mangano was displeased with Anastasia's friendship with Lucky Luciano and Frank Costello, especially since they frequently used Anastasia's services without his permission. Anastasia had been, since the 1930s, the operating head of the syndicate's most notorious death squad, Murder, Inc., which was allegedly responsible for 900-1,000 murders. Mangano and his brother, Phil, supposedly confronted Anastasia several times, in front of Gambino. Eventually, Anastasia stopped asking permission for \"every little thing,\" further angering the Manganos.\n\nOn April 19, 1951, Philip Mangano was found murdered and Vincent himself vanished the very same day and was never found. It is widely presumed that Anastasia killed them both. Though Anastasia never admitted to having a hand in the Mangano murders, he managed to convince the heads of the other families that Mangano had been plotting to have him killed, a claim backed up by Costello, the acting boss of the Luciano crime family. Anastasia was named the new boss of the family, with Gambino as his underboss. Gambino was now one of the most powerful mobsters in the business, with a crew making profit of extortion, illegal gambling, hijacking, bootlegging and murder. Shortly afterward, Gambino's cousin and brother-in-law, Paul Castellano (Giuseppe's son), took over as capo of Gambino's old crew.\n\nWhile Gambino's family enjoyed increased profits, other mobsters, most notably Vito Genovese, grew concerned about Anastasia's violently erratic behavior. In 1952, Anastasia ordered the murder of a young Brooklyn tailor's assistant named Arnold Schuster, after watching Schuster talking on television about his role in the capture of bank robber Willie Sutton. In killing Schuster, Anastasia had violated a Mafia rule against killing outsiders; as Bugsy Siegel once quaintly put it, \"We only kill each other.\" The murder brought unnecessary public scrutiny on Mafia business. Luciano and Costello were horrified by the killing, but they could not take action against Anastasia as he was needed in their power struggle against Genovese. Genovese did not get along with Anastasia, believing he had murdered Mangano. Due to Joseph Bonanno's efforts, the pax Bonanno was made & war was avoided between the two families. However, Genovese continued to resent Anastasia.\n\nIn 1957, Genovese convinced Gambino to side with him against Anastasia, Costello, and Luciano. On Genovese's advice, Gambino told Anastasia that they were not making enough money from casinos in Cuba, which belonged to Jewish mobster Meyer Lansky. After confronting Lansky, Anastasia seemingly threw his support to the Genovese-Gambino alliance. Shortly afterward, Genovese moved against Costello by hiring Vincent \"Chin\" Gigante to assassinate him. While the attempt failed, it frightened Costello enough to ask the Commission for permission to retire, which they granted. Genovese took over the family and renamed it the Genovese crime family.\n\nWith Costello gone, Genovese and Gambino elected to make a preemptive strike against Anastasia. Gambino gave the kill order to Joe Profaci, who then gave it to the Gallo crew, headed by Joseph \"Crazy Joe\" Gallo, and they allegedly shot Anastasia on October 25, 1957, in the barbershop of the Park Sheraton Hotel in Midtown Manhattan. Gambino then became the new boss of the Mangano crime family, which was renamed the Gambino crime family.\n\nNo one was ever charged in the murder. Some sources claim that Gambino gave the kill order to \"Joe the Blonde\" Biondo, who selected Stephen Armone, Arnold \"Witty\" Wittenberg, and Stephen \"Stevie Coogin\" Grammauta to carry out the hit.\n\nGenovese now believed that with Costello and Anastasia out of the way and Gambino supposedly in his debt, the way was clear for him to become \"boss of bosses.\" However, Gambino had his own mind, and secretly aligned himself with Luciano, Costello and Lansky against Genovese. The Costello-Lansky-Luciano-Gambino alliance gained further strength after the Apalachin Conference, supposedly set up to formally crown Genovese as \"boss of bosses,\" ended in disaster with several prominent mafiosi being arrested. Soon afterward, Costello, Luciano, and Lansky met face to face in Italy.\n\nIn 1959, Genovese was heading to Atlanta where a huge shipment of heroin was arriving. However, when he arrived, Genovese was surprised by local police, the FBI and the ATF. He was convicted for selling a large quantity of heroin and was sentenced to 15 years in the Atlanta Federal Penitentiary. Genovese would later die in prison of a heart attack in 1969.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Gambino slowly moved against the prominent Anastasia loyalists, headed by caporegime Armand \"Tommy\" Rava. With Joseph Biondo as a solid underboss, Joseph Riccobono as Gambino's own consigliere, and with his top caporegimes, Aniello \"Mr. Neil\" Dellacroce, Paul \"Big Paul\" Castellano, Carmine \"The Doctor\" Lombardozzi, Joseph \"Joe Piney\" Armone and Carmine \"Wagon Wheels\" Fatico, the remaining Anastasia loyalists could never make a move.\n\nGambino quickly expanded his rackets all over the country. New Gambino rackets were created in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, Boston, San Francisco and Las Vegas. Gambino also, to regain complete control of Manhattan, took over the New York Longshoremen Union, where more than 90 percent of all New York City's ports were controlled. It was a great time, when the money rolled in from every Gambino racket in the U.S. and worked its way up to become America's most powerful crime family. Gambino also made his own family policy: \"Deal and Die.\" This was Gambino's message to every Gambino family member; heroin and cocaine were highly lucrative, but were dangerous, and would also attract attention. The punishment for dealing drugs, in Gambino style, was death.\n\nIn the 1960s, the Gambino family had 500 (other sources have 700 or 800) soldiers, within 30 crews making the family a $500,000,000-a-year-enterprise. In 1962, his eldest son Thomas Gambino married the daughter of fellow mob boss Tommy Lucchese, the new head of the Gagliano crime family, whom Gambino would become close to as a partner, friend, and relative. More than 1,000 people, relatives, friends, and \"amico nostro\" (\"friends of ours\"), were present during the wedding-ceremony. It has been rumored that Gambino personally gave Lucchese $30,000 as a \"welcome gift\" that same day. As repayment, Lucchese cut his friend into the airport rackets that were under Lucchese control, especially at John F. Kennedy International Airport, where all unions, management, and security were controlled by Lucchese himself. After Joseph Bonanno was forced into retirement by the Commission, Vito Genovese died of a heart attack, and Tommy Lucchese died of a brain tumor, Gambino's status and power on the Commission was elevated almost immediately. While the Mafia had abolished the title of \"boss of bosses,\" Gambino's position afforded him the powers such a title would have carried, as he was now the boss of the largest, wealthiest, and most powerful crime family in the country and was the head of the Commission, a position only Luciano had held before Gambino.\n\nIn February 1962, the Gallo brothers kidnapped a number of prominent members of the Profaci family including underboss Joseph Magliocco and capo Joseph Colombo. In return for their release, the brothers demanded changes in the way profits were divided between crews, and at first Profaci appeared to agree, following negotiations between the captors and Profaci's consigliere, Charles \"The Sidge\" LoCicero, but Profaci was simply biding his time before taking revenge on the Gallos. Gallo crew member Joseph \"Joe Jelly\" Gioelli was murdered by Profaci's men in September, and an attempt on Larry Gallo's life was interrupted by policemen in a Brooklyn bar. The brothers set about attacking Profaci's men wherever they saw them as all-out war erupted between the two factions. Plus, Gambino and Lucchese were putting pressure on the other bosses to convince Profaci of stepping down from his title and family, but on June 6, 1962, Profaci lost his battle against cancer. He was replaced as boss of the family by Joseph Magliocco, a man very much in the Profaci mold. Accordingly, Gambino and Lucchese gave their support to the Gallo crew, where Joseph \"Joe Bananas\" Bonanno, the longtime Don of the Bonanno crime family, gave his support to Magliocco and the Profacis.\n\nThe Gallo crew gave up later that year. With their caporegime Joseph \"Crazy Joe\" Gallo behind bars for racketeering and murder, the Gallo crew from Red Hook didn't have enough manpower to continue the war against the rest of the Profacis. Magliocco and Bonanno had won the Gallo war, and intended to \"take care\" of their \"boss of bosses,\" Carlo Gambino.\n\nWith the Gallos out of the way, Magliocco was able to consolidate his position and concentrate on the business of running the family's affairs. However, Joseph Bonanno hatched a plot to murder the heads of the other three families, which Magliocco decided to go along with. The assassinations went to Profaci capo, Joseph Colombo, who realized that the plot would never amount to anything, and warned Gambino about Magliocco and Bonanno's conspiracy against the Commission. Bonanno and Magliocco were called to face the judgement of the Commission. While Bonanno went into hiding, Magliocco faced up to his crimes. Understanding that he had been following Bonanno's lead, he was let off with a $50,000 fine, and forced to retire as the head of the family, being replaced by Joseph Colombo. One month later, Magliocco died of high blood pressure, but Gambino had other plans for Bonanno.\n\nAfter Magliocco's death, Bonanno had few allies left. Many members felt he was too power hungry, and one, a boss from Florida, Santo Trafficante, Jr., once said in anger, \"He's planting flags all over the world!\" Some members of his family also thought he spent too much time away from New York, and more in Canada and Tucson, where he had business interests. The Commission members decided that he no longer deserved leadership over his family and replaced him with a caporegime in his family, Gaspar DiGregorio. Bonanno, however, would not accept this result, breaking the family into two groups, the one led by DiGregorio, and the other headed by Bonanno and his son, Salvatore \"Bill\" Bonanno. Newspapers referred to it as \"The Banana Split.\"\n\nSince Bonanno refused to give up his position, the other Commission members felt it was time for drastic action.\n\nGambino was the one who would give the order to have Bonanno killed, but took pity on him and decided to give Bonanno one last chance to retire while he had his life. In October 1964, Bonanno was kidnapped by Buffalo crime family members, Peter and Antonino Magaddino. According to Bonanno, he was held captive in upstate New York by his cousin, Stefano \"Steve the Undertaker\" Magaddino. Supposedly Magaddino represented the Commission and Gambino, and told his cousin that he \"took up too much space in the air,\" a Sicilian proverb for arrogance. After much talk, Bonanno was released and the Commission members believed he would finally retire and relinquish his power.\n\nEventually, DiGregorio promised a peace meeting on whatever territory Salvatore wanted. It was an ambush. DiGregorio's men opened fire with rifles and automatic weapons on Salvatore and his associates, who were armed only with pistols. The police estimated that more than 500 shots were fired but remarkably, no one was hurt. The war went on for another two more years. The Commission originally thought they could win, but when Joseph Bonanno returned, their hopes were dashed. Bonanno sent out a message to his enemies, saying that for every Bonanno loyalist killed, he would retaliate by hitting a caporegime from the other side. Just as the Bonanno loyalists were sensing victory, Bonanno suffered a heart attack; he decided that he and his son would retire to Tucson, leaving his broken family to another capo, Paul Sciacca, who had replaced DiGregorio. Gambino stood as the victorious and most powerful mob boss in the US. Having the reputation of Gambino's \"mercy,\" made him even more respectable in front of the Commission.\n\nGaetano \"Tommy\" Lucchese led a quiet, stable life until he developed a fatal brain tumor and died at his home in Lido Beach, Long Island on July 13, 1967. His funeral at the Calvary Cemetery in Queens, was attended by more than 1,000 mourners, including politicians, judges, policemen, racketeers, drug pushers, pimps, hitmen and Gambino, who allegedly arranged the whole funeral. Lucchese was succeeded as boss by Antonio \"Tony Ducks\" Corallo.\n\nIt has also been theorized that Gambino went so far as to organize the shooting of Joseph Colombo, head of the Colombo crime family, on June 28, 1971. Colombo survived the shooting, but remained in a coma until his death in 1978. The other theory is that Joe Gallo organized the attack himself. It seems that the rest of the Colombo family believed the latter theory, as Gallo was famously gunned down himself not long after. Colombo's increasing media attention was definitely not liked by the other Commission members; that Lucchese withdrew support was evidenced by capo Paul Vario rescinding his membership from the Italian-American Civil Rights League. However Gambino resorting to killing Colombo seems unlikely as there was no substantial benefit for Gambino in it. Gallo and his crew had already started one war against Profaci, during which time they had kidnapped Colombo, and as Colombo had allegedly carried out a number of hits during that war it seems understandable that Gallo would not like him and have designs on becoming boss himself.\n\nHowever, the theory that Gallo was responsible ignores several pertinent factors. It is true that many powerful members were angry with Colombo for having founded the Italian-American Civil Rights League and glorying in publicity. Gambino hated publicity, always preferring to work in the shadows, and was said to have been quite upset with Colombo about this. As was his style, Gambino did not make a public show of his anger. Gallo had recently been in prison where he had formed close associations with black prisoners who could serve as muscle, a fact that was well known to Gambino. Colombo was shot at a Congress of Italian-American Organizations rally, which was an umbrella organization that included Colombo's Italian-American Civil Rights League, by a black man who was almost instantly shot and killed. As a result, Gambino was rid of a publicity seeking thorn in his side and he got the Colombo family to eliminate Gallo, whose propensity for disruptive violence also displeased the Don. It was also the way Gambino operated: very intelligently, very quietly, but with final brutality.\n\nThe police were happy to accept the Gallo theory, as was the Colombo crime family, but as time went on, the theory of Gambino as the mastermind gained currency within the \"mob.\" Though it is unknown who was truly responsible for the deaths, they ultimately improved the stability of the Gambino empire as the old Don faded.\n\nGambino was also the only mob boss of the Five Families who attended the burial of longtime friend, Charles \"Lucky\" Luciano. On January 26, 1962, Luciano died of a heart attack at the age of 64 at Naples International Airport. He was buried in St. John Cemetery in Queens in February, 1962 due to Luciano having another funeral in Italy and for the time it took to transport his body back to the US. More than 2,000 mourners attended his funeral, where Gambino gave his own speech in memory of Luciano, his friend and companion.\n\nAfter the imprisonment of Vito Genovese in 1959, Thomas \"Tommy Ryan\" Eboli was made acting boss. He kept his position after Genovese died in jail in 1969, but believing that he would need an infusion of money to re-organize the Genovese crime family, Eboli borrowed $4,000,000 from Gambino. Eboli's ability to repay the funds was hindered by the subsequent arrest of and imprisonment of his crew; the arrests were allegedly arranged by Gambino because he wanted his friend Frank Tieri at the head of the Genovese family. When the loan came due, Eboli refused to repay Gambino, claiming that he didn't have enough money. Eboli was murdered on July 16, 1972 – a crime that remains unsolved – and, under the influence of Gambino, the selection of Frank Tieri as boss of the Genovese crime family was made.\n\nIn December 1972, a van marked \"Organized Crime Control Bureau\" began to park outside Gambino's home in Brooklyn. In the van, the FBI's mob squad monitored events inside the house using cameras, lip-readers, and audio-surveillance equipment, including microphones and wire-taps that were planted in Gambino's home. The FBI maintained 24-hour standby in the van, hoping to connect Gambino to organized crime. However, Gambino continued to conduct business in the home using a combination of silent gestures and coded language. According to FBI officials they once recorded a meeting between Gambino, Aniello Dellacroce and Joseph Biondo, where Biondo said only, \"Frog legs,\" and Gambino simply nodded. The recording tapes came out empty. It was also determined by the OCCB that Antonio Mangotti and Carlo Gambino had not uttered a single word to one another for two years until the birth of his son Antonio \"Jovanni\" Mangotti on August 29, 1972. It is said that the only words uttered were \"Complimenti\" and \"Grazie\"\n\nIn May 1972, Gambino's nephew Emanuel \"Manny\" Gambino was kidnapped by James McBratney, \"Crazy\" Eddie Maloney, Warren \"Chief\" Schurman, Richie Chaisson and Colombo crime family associate Thomas Genovese (a distant relative of Vito Genovese). The gang had previously kidnapped a Lucchese crime family capo, Frank \"Frankie the Wop\" Manzo. They received a ransom of $150,000 for Manzo's safe return. For Manny Gambino, the kidnappers asked for $350,000, but his brother claimed he could only come up with $40,000. On June 2, 1972, Manny's car was located at the Newark Airport parking lot. On January 26, 1973, his corpse was found to be stiff from rigor mortis before being buried in a sitting position in a New Jersey dump near the Earle Naval Ammunition Depot.\n\nOn December 4, 1972, Robert Senter was arrested and charged with Gambino's murder. Senter was a gambler and had fallen in debt with Manny Gambino. On June 1, 1973, he pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was sentenced to fifteen years in prison. Along with confessing to his participation in the kidnapping and murder, he revealed the identity of his two accomplices, Chaisson and Schurman.\n\nGambino, seeking revenge, hired John Gotti, a known heavy hitter, on the advice of his underboss, Aniello Dellacroce. Gotti met with Gambino, Dellacroce, consigliere Joseph Armone and Gambino's own brother-in-law and top caporegime, Paul Castellano. Gotti was given the assignment of killing James McBratney, the kidnap-for-ransom gang's leader, who played a large role in Manny Gambino's murder. Castellano also wanted Gambino family soldier Ralph Galione to assist Gotti and longtime Gambino family associate Angelo Ruggiero in carrying out the murder. McBratney was shot three times at close range by Galione, after he had overpowered Ruggiero and Gotti, on the night of May 22, 1973, at Snoope's Bar & Grill in Staten Island.\n\nAlthough Cosa Nostra members show great respect to their superiors, there have been cases of members disrespecting or humiliating a fellow made man. An especially notorious case is that of Dominick \"Mimi\" Scialo – a feared and respected soldier of the Colombo family who had control over the vast area of Coney Island. When under the influence of alcohol, Scialo would become very arrogant, loud and disrespectful. One day in October 1974, Scialo was at a popular Italian restaurant where he spotted Carlo Gambino and began to harass him, insulting Gambino in front of others. Gambino stayed calm, as he always was, did not retaliate and did not say a word. Scialo's body was found not long after at Otto's Social Club in South Brooklyn encased in the concrete floor.\n\nGambino was disappointed with both his own underboss, Aniello Dellacroce and Dellacroce's ambitious protégé John Gotti, so Gambino reorganized. Now, with a weak heart, he decided there were to be two underbosses who both reported to him, Dellacroce and Gambino's own brother-in-law, Paul Castellano. Dellacroce would have free rein over those crews who carried out more traditional, 'hands-on' Mafia activities and the blue-collar crimes, such as murder for hire, loansharking, gambling, extortion, hijacking, pier thefts, fencing, and robbery. Castellano took over the white-collar crimes in Brooklyn like union racketeering, solid and toxic waste, recycling, construction, fraud and wire fraud. This strategic restructuring also created confusion in the FBI in the mid 1970s as to who the official underboss in the family was. In reality, the Gambino family was split into two separate factions, with one Don and two underbosses.\n\nIn his last years, Gambino still ruled his family and the other New York families with an iron fist, while keeping a low profile both from the public and law enforcement. He had to choose who he would appoint as his successor after his death. He chose his brother in-law and capo, Paul Castellano, over his underboss, Aniello Dellacroce. Dellacroce, while disappointed, trusted \"the Godfather's\" judgement, and remained silent.\n\nGambino died in the early morning hours of Friday, October 15, 1976, at his home in Massapequa, New York, having watched the television broadcast of the New York Yankees winning the American League pennant the previous evening. The official cause was natural causes; however, his death was not unexpected, given a recent history of heart disease. Cusimano & Russo Funeral Home hosted his wake on October 16 and 17, 1976. His funeral mass was held on October 18, 1976, at the Church of Our Lady of Grace in Brooklyn. Gambino was then entombed within his family's private room in the Cloister building of Saint John's Cemetery, Queens in New York City. He is interred beside his wife, Catherine, who had died in 1971. Gambino left behind sons Thomas, Joseph and Carlo, and daughter Phyllis.\n\nLongtime associate Charles Luciano and many other lifetime friends are also interred in Saint John's Cemetery. After leading the Gambino crime family for 20 years, and the Commission for more than 15 years, Gambino left a crew estimated to be 500 soldiers and 1,000 associates. Some sources state that Gambino's funeral was attended by at least 2,000 people, including police officers, judges and politicians, and that his funeral motorcade exceeded 100 vehicles.\n\nGambino's permanent residence was a modest house located at 2230 Ocean Parkway in Brooklyn. Gambino's Long Island residence, located at 34 Club Drive in Massapequa, served as his summer home. The two-story brick house, surrounded by a low fence with marble statues on the front lawn, was at the end of a cul-de-sac in Harbor Green Estates, overlooking the South Oyster Bay. He also maintained the house next door as a residence for his bodyguard.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26982208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26982208", "title": "Cell potency", "text": "Cell potency\n\nCell potency is a cell's ability to differentiate into other cell types\nThe more cell types a cell can differentiate into, the greater its potency. Potency is also described as the gene activation potential within a cell, which, like a continuum, begins with totipotency to designate a cell with the most differentiation potential, pluripotency, multipotency, oligopotency, and finally unipotency. \nTotipotency (Lat. \"totipotentia,\" \"ability for all [things]\") is the ability of a single cell to divide and produce all of the differentiated cells in an organism. Spores and zygotes are examples of totipotent cells.\nIn the spectrum of cell potency, totipotency represents the cell with the greatest differentiation potential, being able to differentiate into any embryonic cell, as well as extraembryonic cells. In contrast, pluripotent cells can only differentiate into embryonic cells.\n\nIt is possible for a fully differentiated cell to return to a state of totipotency. This conversion to totipotency is complex, not fully understood and the subject of recent research. Research in 2011 has shown that cells may differentiate not into a fully totipotent cell, but instead into a \"complex cellular variation\" of totipotency. Stem cells resembling totipotent blastomeres from 2-cell stage embryos can arise spontaneously in mouse embryonic stem cell cultures and also can be induced to arise more frequently \"in vitro\" through down-regulation of the chromatin assembly activity of CAF-1.\n\nThe human development model is one which can be used to describe how totipotent cells arise. Human development begins when a sperm fertilizes an egg and the resulting fertilized egg creates a single totipotent cell, a zygote. In the first hours after fertilization, this zygote divides into identical totipotent cells, which can later develop into any of the three germ layers of a human (endoderm, mesoderm, or ectoderm), or into cells of the placenta (cytotrophoblast or syncytiotrophoblast). After reaching a 16-cell stage, the totipotent cells of the morula differentiate into cells that will eventually become either the blastocyst's Inner cell mass or the outer trophoblasts. Approximately four days after fertilization and after several cycles of cell division, these totipotent cells begin to specialize. The inner cell mass, the source of embryonic stem cells, becomes pluripotent.\n\nResearch on \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" suggests that multiple mechanisms including RNA regulation may play a role in maintaining totipotency at different stages of development in some species. Work with zebrafish and mammals suggest a further interplay between miRNA and RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in determining development differences.\n\nIn cell biology, pluripotency (Lat. \"pluripotentia,\" \"ability for many [things]\") refers to a stem cell that has the potential to differentiate into any of the three germ layers: endoderm (interior stomach lining, gastrointestinal tract, the lungs), mesoderm (muscle, bone, blood, urogenital), or ectoderm (epidermal tissues and nervous system). However, cell pluripotency is a continuum, ranging from the completely pluripotent cell that can form every cell of the embryo proper, e.g., embryonic stem cells and iPSCs (see below), to the incompletely or partially pluripotent cell that can form cells of all three germ layers but that may not exhibit all the characteristics of completely pluripotent cells.\n\nInduced pluripotent stem cells, commonly abbreviated as iPS cells or iPSCs, are a type of pluripotent stem cell artificially derived from a non-pluripotent cell, typically an adult somatic cell, by inducing a \"forced\" expression of certain genes and transcription factors. These transcription factors play a key role in determining the state of these cells and also highlights the fact that these somatic cells do preserve the same genetic information as early embryonic cells. The ability to induce cells into a pluripotent state was initially pioneered in 2006 using mouse fibroblasts and four transcription factors, Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc; this technique, called reprogramming, earned Shinya Yamanaka and John Gurdon the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2012. This was then followed in 2007 by the successful induction of human iPSCs derived from human dermal fibroblasts using methods similar to those used for the induction of mouse cells. These induced cells exhibit similar traits to those of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) but do not require the use of embryos. Some of the similarities between ESCs and iPSCs include pluripotency, morphology, self-renewal ability, a trait that implies that they can divide and replicate indefinitely, and gene expression.\n\nEpigenetic factors are also thought to be involved in the actual reprogramming of somatic cells in order to induce pluripotency. It has been theorized that certain epigenetic factors might actually work to clear the original somatic epigenetic marks in order to acquire the new epigenetic marks that are part of achieving a pluripotent state. Chromatin is also reorganized in iPSCs and becomes like that found in ESCs in that it is less condensed and therefore more accessible. Euchromatin modifications are also common which is also consistent with the state of euchromatin found in ESCs.\n\nDue to their great similarity to ESCs, iPSCs have been of great interest to the medical and research community. iPSCs could potentially have the same therapeutic implications and applications as ESCs but without the controversial use of embryos in the process, a topic of great bioethical debate. In fact, the induced pluripotency of somatic cells into undifferentiated iPS cells was originally hailed as the end of the controversial use of embryonic stem cells. However, iPSCs were found to be potentially tumorigenic, and, despite advances, were never approved for clinical stage research in the United States. Setbacks such as low replication rates and early senescence have also been encountered when making iPSCs, hindering their use as ESCs replacements.\n\nAdditionally, it has been determined that the somatic expression of combined transcription factors can directly induce other defined somatic cell fates (transdifferentiation); researchers identified three neural-lineage-specific transcription factors that could directly convert mouse fibroblasts (skin cells) into fully functional neurons. This result challenges the terminal nature of cellular differentiation and the integrity of lineage commitment; and implies that with the proper tools, \"all\" cells are totipotent and may form all kinds of tissue.\n\nSome of the possible medical and therapeutic uses for iPSCs derived from patients include their use in cell and tissue transplants without the risk of rejection that is commonly encountered. iPSCs can potentially replace animal models unsuitable as well as \"in vitro\" models used for disease research.\n\nRecent findings with respect to epiblasts before and after implantation have produced proposals for classifying pluripotency into two distinct phases: \"naive\" and \"primed\". The baseline stem cells commonly used in science that are referred as Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are derived from a pre-implantation epiblast; such epiblast is able to generate the entire fetus, and one epiblast cell is able to contribute to all cell lineages if injected into another blastocyst. On the other hand, several marked differences can be observed between the pre- and post-implantation epiblasts, such as their difference in morphology, in which the epiblast after implantation changes its morphology into a cup-like shape called the \"egg cylinder\" as well as chromosomal alteration in which one of the X-chromosomes undergoes random inactivation in the early stage of the egg cylinder, known as X-inactivation. During this development, the egg cylinder epiblast cells are systematically targeted by Fibroblast growth factors, Wnt signaling, and other inductive factors via the surrounding yolk sac and the trophoblast tissue, such that they become instructively specific according to the spatial organization. Another major difference that was observed, with respect to cell potency, is that post-implantation epiblast stem cells are unable to contribute to blastocyst chimeras, which distinguishes them from other known pluripotent stem cells. Cell lines derived from such post-implantation epiblasts are referred to as epiblast-derived stem cells which were first derived in laboratory in 2007; despite their nomenclature, that both ESCs and EpiSCs are derived from epiblasts, just at difference phases of development, and that pluripotency is still intact in the post-implantation epiblast, as demonstrated by the conserved expression of Nanog, Fut4, and Oct-4 in EpiSCs, until somitogenesis and can be reversed midway through induced expression of Oct-4.\n\nMultipotency describes progenitor cells which have the gene activation potential to differentiate into discrete cell types. For example, a multipotent blood stem cell —and this cell type can differentiate itself into several types of blood cell types like lymphocytes, monocytes, neutrophils, etc., but it is still ambiguous whether HSC possess the ability to differentiate into brain cells, bone cells or other non-blood cell types.\n\nNew research related to multipotent cells suggests that multipotent cells may be capable of conversion into unrelated cell types. In another case, human umbilical cord blood stem cells were converted into human neurons. Research is also focusing on converting multipotent cells into pluripotent cells.\n\nMultipotent cells are found in many, but not all human cell types. Multipotent cells have been found in cord blood, adipose tissue, cardiac cells, bone marrow, and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) which are found in the third molar.\n\nMSCs may prove to be a valuable source for stem cells from molars at 8–10 years of age, before adult dental calcification. MSCs can differentiate into osteoblasts, chondrocytes, and adipocytes.\n\nIn biology, oligopotency is the ability of progenitor cells to differentiate into a few cell types. It is a degree of potency. Examples of oligopotent stem cells are the lymphoid or myeloid stem cells.\nA lymphoid cell specifically, can give rise to various blood cells such as B and T cells, however, not to a different blood cell type like a red blood cell. Examples of progenitor cells are vascular stem cells that have the capacity to become both endothelial or smooth muscle cells.\n\nIn cell biology, a unipotent cell is the concept that one stem cell has the capacity to differentiate into only one cell type. It is currently unclear if true unipotent stem cells exist. Hepatoblasts, which differentiate into hepatocytes (which constitute most of the liver) or cholangiocytes (epithelial cells of the bile duct), are bipotent. A close synonym for \"unipotent cell\" is \"precursor cell.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51701340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51701340", "title": "Charles Turbiville", "text": "Charles Turbiville\n\nCharles M. Turbiville (July 13, 1943 – October 20, 2018) was an American politician. \n\nTurbiville was born in Buffalo, South Dakota. He graduated from Newell High School in Newell, South Dakota. Turbiville went to Black Hills State University and University of South Dakota. Turbiville served in the United States Army from 1969 to 1969 and was a commissioned a second lieutenant. He was a farmer and owned his parents farm in Newell, South Dakota. He served on the Newell School Board. Turbiville served as director of economic development for Deadwood, South Dakota. From 2013 to 2016, Turbiville served on the South Dakota Lottery Commission.\n\nTurbiville served as mayor of Deadwood, South Dakota from 2013 until his death. He also served as a Republican member for the 31st district in the South Dakota House of Representatives from 2005 to 2013, and again starting from 2017 until his death on October 20, 2018. He died at his home in Deadwood, South Dakota. He was reelected to his state house seat on November 6, two and a half weeks after his death, which will be filled by an appointee of the Governor of South Dakota.\n"}
{"id": "23886425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23886425", "title": "Cheetah reintroduction in India", "text": "Cheetah reintroduction in India\n\nReintroduction of the cheetah in India involves the re-establishment of a population of cheetahs into areas where they had previously existed but were hunted into extinction from the Mughal Period onwards, largely by Indian royalty, until the early 20th century when only several thousand remained. A part of the reintroduction process is the identification and restoration of their former grassland scrub forest habitats. This is within the scope of the duties of the local forest department of each State, where relocation occurs, through the use of Indian Central Government funding.\n\nUntil the 20th century, the Asiatic cheetah was quite common and roamed all the way from Israel, the Arabian Peninsula to Iran, Afghanistan and India. In India, they ranged as far south as the Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu. The Asiatic cheetah, also known as the \"hunting leopard\" in India was kept by kings and princes to hunt gazelle; the Mughal emperor Akbar kept them for hunting gazelle and blackbucks. He was said to have had 1,000 cheetahs at one time for assisting in his royal hunts, a number believed to be overestimated by many sources. Trapping of large numbers of adult Indian cheetahs, who had already learned hunting skills from wild mothers, for assisting in royal hunts is said to be another major cause of the species rapid decline in India as they never bred in captivity with only one record of a litter ever.\n\nBy the beginning of the twentieth century, the species was already heading for extinction in many areas. The last physical evidence of the Asiatic cheetah in India was thought to be three, all shot by the Maharajah Ramanuj Pratap Singh Deo of Surguja State in 1947, in eastern Madhya Pradesh or northern Chhattisgarh, but a female was sighted in Koriya district, in what is now Chhattisgarh, in 1951.\n\nIn India in the mid-20th century, prey was abundant, and cheetahs fed on the blackbuck, the chinkara, and sometimes the chital and the nilgai.\n\nWith the death of the last remaining population of the Asiatic cheetah in India, the species was declared extinct in India; it is the only animal in recorded history to become extinct from India due to unnatural causes. A consequence of the extinction of the cheetahs and subsequently the Indian royalty that prized them was that their grasslands homes came to be controlled, used and managed by local people. \"The grasslands faded and diminished under the hooves of a thousand cattle, they were tilled and ploughed until only a few scattered remnants were preserved in the form of wildlife sanctuaries\".\n\nDuring the early 2000s, Indian scientists from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, proposed a plan to clone Asiatic cheetahs obtained from Iran. India requested Iran to transport one live pair to India. If not possible, Indian scientists requested Iran to allow them to collect some live cells of the cheetah pair in Iran itself, which can then be made into living cell lines.\n\nHowever, Iran refused saying that it would neither send any cheetahs to India nor would they allow Indian scientists to collect their tissue samples. It is said that Iran wanted an Asiatic lion in exchange for a cheetah and that India was not willing to export any of its lions. In 2009, the Indian government contacted Iran again to explore the possibility of Iran supplying cheetahs to help to re-establish their presence on the subcontinent decades after they were hunted to extinction. The Iranian embassy in Delhi had said that its government was in the process of \"arranging\" talks.\n\nCurrently, wildlife experts have shortlisted three regions which have the potential to support cheetah populations. The Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary and Kuno-Palpur Wildlife Sanctuaries in Madhya Pradesh and the Shahgarh bulge landscape in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan have been declared potentially suitable for the reintroduction of the cheetah. The Kuno-Palpur Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh has the potential to hold populations of four of India's big cats; the Bengal tiger, Indian leopard, and Asiatic lion and cheetah, all four of which have co-existed in the same habitats historically for many years, before they were wiped out due to overhunting and habitat destruction. Since the Shahgarh Landscape is fenced along the Indo-Pakistani border region, the addition of more fencing will ensure adequate protection for the cheetah population. The Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary (1197km2) is part of a much larger forested landscape (5500km2 ) which can host the cheetah as well.\n\nAt a future date, when sufficient population has built up, other former range habitats in India (after revitalizing them) may also be considered for reintroduction like the Banni grasslands and Desert National Park etc.\n\nA few wildlife groups have suggested the Moyar river valley in Tamil Nadu's Satyamangalam FD, part of Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve as it is a pristine forest with flourishing population of prey and a good record of conservation. Frederick Augustus Nicholson, the then British Collector has reported to have shot a few individuals near Kothamangalam, Velamundi and Bolampatti (all in NBR). This region is on the leeward side of SW monsoon.\n\nThe Asiatic cheetah (\"Acinonyx jubatus venaticus\") has, for a long time, been \"theoretically\" classified as a sub-species of the cheetah with the suffix \"venaticus\" applied at the end of its scientific binomial name \"Acinonyx jubatus\". However, at a cheetah reintroduction workshop organised in India on 9 September 2009, Stephen J. O'Brien from Laboratory of Genomic Diversity of National Cancer Institute of the US who has in the past conducted numerous prestigious genetic studies - including those on Asiatic lions - said that according to the latest modern genetic studies, it was discovered that the Asiatic cheetah was, in fact, genetically identical to the African cheetah with which it had separated only about 5000 years ago. This was not enough time for a sub-species level differentiation; O'Brien said that in comparison the Asian and African lion subspecies were separated some 100,000 years ago, as was the African and Asian leopard subspecies 169,000 years ago. Cheetah expert Laurie Marker of the Cheetah Conservation Fund and other wildlife experts advised the Indian Government that for reintroduction purposes India should source the cheetah from Africa where they were much more numerous instead of trying to have some removed from the critically endangered low population of about 70 to 110 or so Asiatic cheetahs left in Iran.\n\nIndia's Union Minister of State for Environment and Forests Jairam Ramesh, chief wildlife wardens of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, officials of the environment ministry, cheetah experts from across the globe including Laurie Marker from Cheetah Conservation Fund, representatives from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) including Yadvendradev Jhala, and IUCN, an international conservation NGO, among others, participated in a meeting about this issue.\n\nSubsequently, in 2011, a much more detailed five-year genetic study involving gathering of DNA samples from the wild, zoos and museums in eight countries was published in \"Molecular Ecology (Journal)\" on 8 January 2011. This newer study concluded that African and Asiatic cheetahs were in reality genetically very distinct and had in fact separated 32,000 to 67,000 years ago. Sub-species level differentiation had taken place due to longer separation from the African population. The effect of this latest revelation on India's plan to reintroduce cheetahs to the country was left unknown.\n\nAs the world's last Asiatic cheetah population in Iran is currently classified as critically endangered, with an estimated total of below 100, the cheetah experts felt that it would not be conducive to disturb it. India is therefore exploring an alternate plan of importing the South African cheetah (\"Acinonyx jubatus jubatus\") from some African countries, such as in Namibia, where they are in greater abundance, with a view to breeding them in captivity, and then setting them free in protected, semi-arid habitats in India.\n\nSince the Asiatic cheetah became extinct in India about half a century ago, suggestions to reestablish the cheetah in India have been ongoing. For this purpose a meeting of International cheetah experts was organized in Gajner, near Bikaner in the Indian state of Rajasthan during September 2009. As per the discussions held at the meeting cheetah experts from around the world favored importing South African cheetahs for the proposed reintroduction in India as against getting them from the world's last remnant population of the Asiatic cheetah, which is also called \"Iranian cheetah,\" since it survives in Iran, where it is currently critically endangered, with the entire population estimated to be below 100. International experts including Laurie Marker of Cheetah Conservation Fund, credited with developing cheetah conservation programmes in a number of countries, including Iran, argues that the world's last Asiatic cheetah population in Iran is abysmally low to spare any individuals for reintroduction efforts in India. Stephen J O'Brien, world's leading conservation geneticist and Chief of the Laboratory of Genomic Diversity at the National Cancer Institute, United States, has clarified that there is no significant genetic difference between the African and the Iran's Asiatic cheetah, as per genetic research carried out by him African and Indian cheetahs were only separated just some 5,000 years ago which is not enough for a sub-species level differentiation. \"African and Asian cheetahs are similar in nature and have same genetic make-up. So India can have the animal from South Africa if it is not getting from Iran (which has already refused to part with its Asian cheetah),\" noted the cheetah genetic expert Stephen J O Brien. At the meeting experts also identified South Africa, Botswana, Kenya, Tanzania and UAE as countries from where the cheetah could be imported for India. \"About 5 to 10 animals annually have to be brought to India over a period of 5 to 10 years,\" recommended another working group, which was formed for exploring sourcing and translocation of the cheetah.\n\nThe Ministry of Environment & Forests, Government of India has approved the recommendation for a detailed survey of potential reintroduction sites in the four Indian states of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, shortlisted during the consultative meeting. Three more Indian states Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra are being also considered. This survey will form the basis for the roadmap of reintroduction of cheetah in India, and will be carried out by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII).\n\nThe Ministry of forests and environment of India is now hammering out the details of the cheetah conservation plan. As a first step, a two-day seminar of technical experts on cheetahs was held in Gajner from 9 September 2009. Experts on cheetah, including Divyabhanusinh Chavda and M K Ranjitsinh presented their papers on how to go about bringing cheetahs to India.\n\nThe initial plans were to bring the cheetahs to Gajner Wildlife Sanctuary. \"We want to set up a breeding ground for the cheetahs and Gajner seems to fit the bill perfectly. Thereafter, they will be transported to various states,\" he added.\n\nIndia is also in talks with the Islamic Republic of Iran over the possibility of sending a pair of Asiatic cheetahs to India. The Iranian embassy in Delhi said that its government was in the process of \"arranging\" talks.\n\nThe Union Minister of State for Environment and Forests Jairam Ramesh said that African cheetahs could be brought to India within three years having just returned from a trip to South Africa, one of the potential source-habitats of cheetahs to be moved to India.\n\nThe Wildlife Institute of India is spearheading the project, and will unveil a road map and destination for the African cheetahs – possible options are in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat – by the end of May.\n\nKuno Palpur and Nauradehi Sancturies in Madhya Pradesh and Shahgarh landscape in Jaisalmer in Rajasthan have been selected in by the Wildlife Institute of India as most suitable sites for the reintroduction project.\n\nAs of May 2012 the Indian Supreme Court has put the project of importing cheetahs from Africa and reintroducing them in India on hold. Some Conservationists have been fighting a legal battle in Indian Supreme Court to get the Indian State Government of Gujarat to break its monopolizing of wild Asiatic lions and release a few overpopulated prides of lions spilling out of Gir National Park for reintroduction in the Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary in the neighbouring Indian State of Madhya Pradesh which was prepared for them after relocating over 24 villages out of the forest. In the past, for last two decades the State Government of Gujarat had concocted every possible reason to maintain its monopoly on wild Asiatic lions and the tourism revenue generated by them and of recent Gujarat's legal council had put forward the argument that Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary is being used for the introduction of African cheetah which might take several years to fully settle down and repopulate the area and hence reintroduction of lions should only be done after that, this scared the conservationists that Gujarat will use this pretext to delay the reintroduction of native lions by many more decades using the cheetah argument. Indian Supreme court has taken note of the arguments put forth by some Indian conservationists that importing African cheetah for reintroduction in India is misguided as it is against the International Union for Conservation of Nature's reintroduction guidelines and no clearance had been sought from India's National Board for Wildlife. The Indian Supreme Court has put the project on hold till further notice asking for clearance from India's National Board for Wildlife, meantime it has fast tracked the case for the re-introduction of lions to Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary and is hearing it every Monday.\n\nSenior advocate PS Narasimha, court-appointed adviser and the \"amicus curiae\" in the Asiatic lion's relocation case in India's Supreme Court, filed an application seeking a stay on the implementation of African cheetah reintroduction project in India. The Indian Supreme court granted the stay and the matter has been scheduled for further hearing in July 2012 after the court returns from vacation. During its hearings, the Bench was informed that India's Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) has decided to introduce the South African cheetah (\"Acinonyx jubatus jubatus\") from Namibia into Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, the same proposed habitat being developed as the second home for the translocation of lions from Gir Wildlife Sanctuary in the neighbouring Indian state of Gujarat which did not want to shift any lions out of the state. Narasimha said the proposal for reintroduction of African cheetah \"has not been either placed before the Standing Committee of India's National Board for Wildlife, nor has there been a considered decision taken in this regard\". He stated in an application that \"scientific studies show that the African Cheetahs and Asian Cheetahs are completely different, both genetically and also in their characteristics\" and the reintroduction of African cheetah in India was also against the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) guidelines on translocation of wildlife species. \"In fact, the (IUCN) guidelines categorically warn against the introduction of alien or exotic species. The African Cheetah obviously never existed in India. Therefore, it is not case of intentional movement of an organism into a part of its native range,\" the application stated. Asiatic cheetah became extinct in India in the 1950s, In the past, India's last recorded cheetah in the wild was said to have been shot in the Rewa area of Madhya Pradesh in the late 1940s. It was mentioned that the introduction of alien or exotic species is universally shunned by wildlife experts and \"in fact countries such as South Africa, Australia are spending huge amount of funds to eradicate and remove exotic wildlife species from wilderness areas or wild habitats\". Narasimha also sought a direction of India's Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to produce before the apex court all relevant records and decisions relating to introduction of cheetah. He said the Indian cheetah in genetic composition is a different animal than the African cheetah and a different sub species altogether and \"therefore one cannot be introduced in place of the other\". Conservationists say fewer than 100 of the critically endangered Asiatic cheetah subspecies remain only in Iran, roaming the central deserts. The vast majority of the 7,100 cheetahs left in the world are in Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14923645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14923645", "title": "Confabulation (neural networks)", "text": "Confabulation (neural networks)\n\nA confabulation, also known as a false, degraded, or corrupted memory, is a stable pattern of activation in an artificial neural network or neural assembly that does not correspond to any previously learned patterns. The same term is also applied to the (nonartificial) neural mistake-making process leading to a false memory (confabulation).\n\nIn cognitive science, the generation of confabulatory patterns is symptomatic of some forms of brain trauma. In this, confabulations relate to pathologically induced neural activation patterns depart from direct experience and learned relationships. In computational modeling of such damage, related brain pathologies such as dyslexia and hallucination result from simulated lesioning and neuron death. Forms of confabulation in which missing or incomplete information is incorrectly filled in by the brain are generally modelled by the well known neural network process called pattern completion.\n\nConfabulation is central to a theory of cognition and consciousness by S. L. Thaler in which thoughts and ideas originate in both biological and synthetic neural networks as false or degraded memories nucleate upon various forms of neuronal and synaptic fluctuations and damage. Such novel patterns of neural activation are promoted to ideas as other neural nets perceive utility or value to them (i.e., the thalamo-cortical loop). The exploitation of these false memories by other artificial neural networks forms the basis of inventive artificial intelligence systems currently utilized in product design, materials discovery and improvisational military robots. Compound, confabulatory systems of this kind have been used as sensemaking systems for military intelligence and planning, self-organizing control systems for robots and space vehicles, and entertainment. The concept of such opportunistic confabulation grew out of experiments with artificial neural networks that simulated brain cell apoptosis. It was discovered that novel perception, ideation, and motor planning could arise from either reversible or irreversible neurobiological damage.\n\nThe term confabulation is also used by Robert Hecht-Nielsen in describing inductive reasoning accomplished via Bayesian networks. Confabulation is used to select the expectancy of the concept that follows a particular context. This is not an Aristotelian deductive process, although it yields simple deduction when memory only holds unique events. However, most events and concepts occur in multiple, conflicting contexts and so confabulation yields a consensus of an expected event that may only be minimally more likely than many other events. However, given the winner take all constraint of the theory, that is the event/symbol/concept/attribute that is then expected. This parallel computation on many contexts is postulated to occur in less than a tenth of a second. Confabulation grew out of vector analysis of data retrieval like that of latent semantic analysis and support vector machines. It is currently used to detect credit card fraud. It is being implemented computationally on parallel computers.\n"}
{"id": "2776276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2776276", "title": "D. W. Mooney", "text": "D. W. Mooney\n\nD. W. \"James\" Mooney (died 1882) was a miner and an early explorer of the Grand Canyon. He fell to his death at Mooney Falls, a waterfall on the Havasupai Reservation in the Grand Canyon. \n"}
{"id": "1037346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1037346", "title": "Dick Enberg", "text": "Dick Enberg\n\nRichard Alan Enberg (January 9, 1935 – December 21, 2017) was an American sportscaster. Over the course of an approximately 60-year career, he provided play-by-play of various sports for several radio and television networks, including NBC (1975–1999), CBS (2000–2014), and ESPN (2004–2011), as well for individual teams, such as UCLA Bruins basketball, Los Angeles Rams football, and California Angels and San Diego Padres baseball.\n\nEnberg was well known for his signature on-air catchphrases \"Touch 'em all\" (for home runs) and \"Oh, my!\" (for particularly exciting and outstanding athletic plays). He also announced or hosted the Tournament of Roses Parade for many years, sometimes with the help of family members. Enberg retired from broadcasting in 2016 after seven seasons as the Padres primary play-by-play broadcaster.\n\nEnberg was born on January 9, 1935 in Mount Clemens, Michigan as the first child to Belle Elizabeth (Weiss) and Arnie Enberg. His paternal grandparents were Finnish immigrants, whose original name was \"Katajavuori\", which means juniper mountain. Before they lived in America they changed their name to the Swedish sounding word of Enberg. His mother was of English, French, German and American Indian descent. He has a younger brother, Dennis. Enberg's family first moved to Bridgeport, Connecticut when he was aged two, then to southern California in 1940 for several years, and then back to a farm near Armada, Michigan.\n\nFollowing high school in nearby Armada, Enberg attended Central Michigan University, where he played college baseball and earned a bachelor's degree in 1957. In his senior year at Central Michigan, Enberg was elected President of the Student Body. During this time, he was employed at WSAM in Saginaw, Michigan, then a Detroit Tigers radio affiliate. Enberg then went on to graduate school at Indiana University, where he earned master's and doctorate degrees in health sciences. While at Indiana, Enberg voiced the first radio broadcast of the Little 500, the bicycle racing event popularized in the film \"Breaking Away\". He was also the play-by-play announcer for Indiana Hoosiers football and basketball games, and in 1961 called his first NCAA basketball tournament event, the championship game between Cincinnati and Ohio State. From 1961 to 1965 he was an assistant professor and baseball coach at Cal State Northridge, then known as San Fernando Valley State College. Enberg was also a member of the Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Enberg began a full-time sportscasting career in Los Angeles, working for KTLA television (anchoring a nightly sports report and calling UCLA Bruins basketball) and KMPC radio (calling Los Angeles Rams football and California Angels baseball). After every Angels victory, he would wrap up his broadcast with, \"And the halo shines tonight,\" in reference to the \"Big A\" scoreboard at Anaheim Stadium and the halo at the top, which would light up for everyone in the area to see, particularly from the adjacent freeway. Enberg was named California Sportscaster of the Year four times during this period.\n\nIn the 1960s, Enberg announced boxing matches at L.A.'s Olympic Auditorium.\n\nIn 1968, Enberg was recommended by UCLA athletic director J.D. Morgan to be the national broadcaster for the syndicated TVS Television Network to cover the \"Game of the Century\" between the Houston Cougars, led by Elvin Hayes and the UCLA Bruins, led by Lew Alcindor (later Kareem Abdul-Jabbar). The \"Prime Time\" nationally televised game demonstrated that college basketball had a national \"Prime Time\" audience and stands as a seminal contest in the evolution of nationally televised evening college basketball broadcasts. Enberg continued to call the occasional UCLA game for TVS through the early 1970s, usually teaming with Rod Hundley. In 1973, Enberg traveled to Beijing, China to host the groundbreaking TVS Television Network telecast of the USA vs. China basketball game. It was the first team sporting event ever played between China and the USA.\n\nIn the 1970s, Enberg called the 1979 NCAA Championship game between Michigan State, led by Magic Johnson, and Indiana State, led by Larry Bird. He also hosted the syndicated television game show \"Sports Challenge\", and co-produced the Emmy Award-winning sports-history series The Way It Was for PBS.\n\nIn the 1970 opening conference game in Pauley Pavilion, Oregon went into a stall against the UCLA Bruins. Enberg had run out of statistics and began to fill his radio broadcast with small talk. The movie \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\" had just been released, and Enberg was humming the tune to \"Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head\", but did not know the words. Two nights later, in a home game against Oregon State, many UCLA students brought the lyrics to the song. Enberg promised that he would sing the song if UCLA won the conference championship. He sang the song following the final game of the season. The event was recorded in the \"Los Angeles Times\" and was later recounted in the book \"Pauley Pavilion: College Basketball's Showplace\" by David Smale. During the 2006 NCAA Men's Basketball Championship broadcast, there was a short feature on the event.\n\nIn 1973, Enberg hosted the game show \"Baffle\", which lasted just a year before being cancelled in 1974. A year later, producer Monty Hall hired Enberg to host the shorter-lived \"Three for the Money\".\n\nIn 1975, Enberg joined NBC Sports. For the next 25 years, he broadcast a plethora of sports and events for NBC, including the National Football League, Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the U.S. Open golf championship, college football, college basketball, the Wimbledon and French Open tennis tournaments, heavyweight boxing, Breeders' Cup and other horse racing events, and the Olympic Games.\n\nEnberg replaced Curt Gowdy as lead play-by-play announcer for the \"NFL on NBC\" in 1979, and would pick up the network's telecast of the Rose Bowl Game in 1980. He would be in the booth in Pasadena every year until ABC took over the broadcast in 1989.\n\nWhile on \"The NFL on NBC\", Enberg called eight Super Bowls (alongside such former NFL players Merlin Olsen, Bob Trumpy, Phil Simms, and Paul Maguire), the last being Super Bowl XXXII in January 1998. Enberg also anchored NBC's coverage of Super Bowl XIII (called by Curt Gowdy) in 1979. He also called three Canadian Football League games in 1982 during the NFL strike.\n\nAmong the notable games called by Enberg was the 1986 Week 3 51–45 shootout between the Jets and Dolphins and the 1987 playoff game between Denver and Cleveland.\n\nAccording to his autobiography, \"Oh My!\", Enberg was informed by NBC that he would become the lead play-by-play voice of \"Major League Baseball Game of the Week\" beginning with the 1982 World Series (for which he served as pregame host and shared play-by-play duties with Joe Garagiola alongside analyst Tony Kubek) and through subsequent regular seasons. He wrote that on his football trips, he would read every \"Sporting News\" to make sure he was current with all the baseball news and notes. Then he met with NBC executives in September 1982, and they informed him that Vin Scully was in negotiations to be their lead baseball play-by-play man (teaming with Garagiola while Kubek would team with Bob Costas) and would begin with the network in the spring of 1983.\n\nAccording to the book, Enberg wasn't pleased about the decision (since he loved being the California Angels' radio and television voice in the 1970s and was eager to return to baseball) but the fact that NBC was bringing in Scully, arguably baseball's best announcer, was understandable. Enberg added that NBC also gave him a significant pay increase as a pseudo-apology for not coming through on the promise to make him the lead baseball play-by-play man. Enberg would go on to call some cable TV broadcasts for the Angels in 1985, citing a desire to reconnect with the sport, which he has described as having been \"in my DNA since I was in diapers\".\n\nEnberg hosted NBC's of the 1985 National League Championship Series with Joe Morgan. It was Enberg who broke the news to most of the nation that Vince Coleman was injured before Game 4. NBC even aired an interview with one of the few people who actually saw the incident, a Dodger batboy. Enberg was also in Toronto to do the pregame for Games 1 and 7 of the 1985 American League Championship Series alongside Rick Dempsey (who was still active with Baltimore at the time).\n\nNBC planned to use Enberg as one of its announcers for The Baseball Network coverage in 1994, but the players' strike that year ended the season before he had the opportunity to call any games.\n\nAs NBC's voice of the Wimbledon Tennis Championships, the last tournament for him being in 1999 (alongside Bud Collins and, later, John McEnroe), Enberg regularly concluded the network's coverage of the two-week event with thematically appropriate observations accompanied by a montage of video clips.\n\nEnberg was hired by CBS Sports in 2000, serving as a play-by-play announcer for the network's NFL, college basketball, and US Open Tennis coverage. For several years he also contributed to CBS's coverage of The Masters and PGA Championship golf as an interviewer and essayist.\n\nAnother enduring element of Enberg's broadcasting legacy was his ability to provide warm and poignant reflections on the sporting events he covered. \"Enberg Essays\", as they came to be known, were a regular feature of CBS's coverage of college basketball's Final Four.\n\nOn March 27, 2010, Enberg called his final college basketball game for CBS, an East Regional tournament final featuring the Kentucky Wildcats versus the West Virginia Mountaineers. After becoming the Padres' play-by-play announcer, Enberg said he hoped to continue calling late-season NFL games for CBS, but his name was omitted from the network's announcing roster for 2010. He continued to call the US Open for CBS through 2011.\n\nEnberg returned to call one match and serve as an essayist during the 2014 US Open, to help commemorate CBS's last year covering the event before ESPN took over in 2015.\n\nOn September 14, 2009, Juan Martín del Potro defeated Roger Federer to win the Men's US Open Championship. Enberg hosted the post-match ceremony during which del Potro requested to address his fans in Spanish. Enberg declined the request saying that he was running out of time but went on to list the corporate sponsored prizes del Potro won. A couple of minutes later, Del Potro made the same request again and only then Enberg relented saying \"Very quickly, in Spanish, he wants to say hello to his friends here and in Argentina\". An emotional del Potro finally spoke a few sentences in Spanish to a cheering crowd. Many viewers expressed disappointment with Enberg and CBS over the interview. A CBS executive later defended Enberg, noting that the contract with the United States Tennis Association required that certain sponsors receive time during the ceremony.\n\nBeginning in 2004, Enberg served as a play-by-play announcer for ESPN2's coverage of the Wimbledon and French Open tennis tournaments, adding the Australian Open the following year. Enberg came to ESPN on lease from CBS, where he already called the US Open, the one Grand Slam tournament not covered by ESPN until 2009. At the 2004 French Open, Enberg called a match per day and also provided his \"Enberg Moments\". At Wimbledon in 2004, he participated in a new one-hour morning show called \"Breakfast at Wimbledon\". ESPN asked CBS for permission to use Enberg during the summer of 2004 at both the French Open and Wimbledon. Enberg then surprised his new bosses by volunteering for the 2005 Australian Open in January 2005. \"I've never been to Australia,\" he said. \"At my age then [69], to be able to work a full Grand Slam is something I'd like to have at the back of my book.\" Enberg stopped calling the French Open after 2009 due to his Padres commitments, though he continued to call the Wimbledon and Australian Open tournaments over the next two years. In June 2011, it was reported that his ESPN contract had ended and that the 2011 Wimbledon tournament would be his final one for the network.\n\nIn December 2009, Enberg was hired as a television play-by-play announcer by the San Diego Padres, signing a multi-year deal to call 110–120 games a season for channel 4SD. Enberg primarily teamed with Mark Grant on the Padres' telecasts.\n\nIn his debut season as a Padres broadcaster, Enberg took some criticism from fans over a perceived lack of enthusiasm for the home team. Told that he was regarded by some viewers as getting \"too excited\" over plays by opposing players, Enberg responded, \"I find that a real compliment.\" He did move to placate the critics, however, by limiting the use of his signature home run call of \"Touch 'em all!\" to Padres home runs.\n\nIn 2012, Enberg returned as play-by-play voice of the Padres as they moved their telecasts from 4SD to Fox Sports San Diego, in the first year of a 20-year deal between the team and the newly formed network. On September 23, 2015, Enberg indicated he would call Padre games for one more season in 2016, then retire.\n\nOn May 21, 2016, Enberg served as a special guest play-by-play broadcaster for the Detroit Tigers in their home game with the Tampa Bay Rays, calling the game on Fox Sports Detroit alongside analyst Kirk Gibson. The Tigers were Enberg's boyhood team, as he lived in the Detroit area. Enberg also called a weekend series for the Tigers post retirement, an interleague series between the Tigers and the Dodgers, August 18–20, 2017 for FSD and one game for FS1.\n\nEnberg's last game with the Padres was October 2, 2016. In his last week on air, he made a guest appearance with Los Angeles Dodgers announcer Vin Scully, who also was retiring at the end of the baseball season, after a 67-year career.\n\nIn 2006 and 2007, Enberg called Thursday night and postseason NFL games for Westwood One radio. Also in 2006, he began narrating a documentary style television series for Fox Sports Net called \"In Focus on FSN\". For Fox Sports Net, he called his final college basketball game on November 11, 2012 aboard the USS Midway along side Steve Kerr.\n\nIn addition to his career in sports broadcasting, Enberg hosted three game shows besides the aforementioned \"Sports Challenge\": \"The Perfect Match\" in 1967, \"Baffle\" on NBC from 1973 through 1974, and \"Three for the Money\" on NBC in 1975. He also lent his voice to the animated CBS cartoon series \"Where's Huddles?\" (1970), the film \"Rollerball\" (1975), and the American-dubbed version of the animated UK Christmas special \"Robbie the Reindeer: Hooves of Fire\" (2002); made appearances in the films \"Two-Minute Warning\" (1976), \"Gus\" (1976), \"Heaven Can Wait\" (1978), \"The Longshot\" (1986), \"\" (1988), and \"Mr. 3000\" (2004); and appeared as himself in episodes of such television programs as \"The King of Queens\" and \"\". In addition, Enberg was seen in a series of commercials for GTE during the 1980s and early 1990s, and was the voice of the announcer in the classic \"Talking Football\" tabletop game from Mattel.\n\n\nEnberg garnered many awards and honors over the years, including 13 Sports Emmy Awards (as well as a Lifetime Achievement Emmy), nine National Sportscaster of the Year awards from the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association (and induction into that organization's Hall of Fame), five Sportscaster of the Year awards from the American Sportscasters Association (which also ranked Enberg tenth in its 2009 listing of the Top 50 Sportscasters of All Time), the Pete Rozelle Award from the Pro Football Hall of Fame, the Curt Gowdy Award from the Basketball Hall of Fame, the Ford Frick Award from the National Baseball Hall of Fame, and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Enberg is the only sportscaster thus far to win Emmys in three categories (broadcasting, writing, and producing), and in 1973 became the first U.S. sportscaster to visit the People's Republic of China.\n\nEnberg was inducted into Central Michigan University's Athletics Hall of Fame in 1993. The university named an academic center for him in 2007. A student-athlete award in Enberg's name is presented annually to a Central Michigan student.\n\nEnberg was raised in Armada, Michigan and was responsible for the naming of the Armada High School yearbook, the Regit (Tiger spelled backwards), a name it has to this day. A hallway in the Macomb Academy of Arts and Sciences, which is run by Armada school district and shares the building with its administration office, was named after him.\n\nUCLA named its Media Center in Pauley Pavilion after Enberg in 2017 in his honor.\n\nIndiana University awarded Enberg an honorary doctorate of humane letters in 2002. He would be inducted into the Indiana University Intercollegiate Athletics Hall of Fame in the fall of 2006.\n\nEnberg also received honorary doctorates of humane letters from his alma mater Central Michigan University in 1980 and Marquette University in 2009, and gave the addresses at both universities' May commencement ceremonies.\n\nIn 1997, the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) honored Enberg with an award in recognition of his longtime support of the organization's Academic All-America program. The Dick Enberg Award is given annually to a person whose actions and commitment have furthered the meaning and reach of the Academic All-America Teams Program and/or the student-athlete while promoting the values of education and academics. Past recipients include Gerald Ford, Mike Krzyzewski, Pat Summitt, and Joe Paterno. Enberg continues to be an avid supporter of the program, often lending his voice to video presentations related to CoSIDA's annual Academic All-America Hall of Fame ceremony.\n\nIn 2006, Enberg was Awarded the Ambassador Award of Excellence by the LA Sports & Entertainment Commission for his involvement in the community.\n\nFor his contributions to the Rose Bowl game and parade through the years, Enberg was inducted into the Rose Bowl Hall of Fame on December 31, 2011.\n\nThe National Baseball Hall of Fame named Enberg the 2015 recipient of the Ford C. Frick Award for excellence in baseball broadcasting. He was presented with the award in a ceremony during the Hall's induction weekend on July 25, 2015. Enberg was the second American sportscaster (after Curt Gowdy) to be selected for broadcasting awards from each of the Halls of Fame in professional football, basketball and baseball.\n\nOn August 20, 2017 the Detroit Sports Media (formerly Detroit Sports Broadcasters Association) named Enberg the 2017 recipient of the DSM Ernie Harwell Lifetime Contribution Award for a lifetime of service to the sports broadcasting community.\n\nAlthough Enberg was Finnish on his paternal side, his surname was of Swedish origin. During an ESPN television broadcast from the Wimbledon tennis championships on June 24, 2010, Enberg said his father was born in Finland, and changed his name from the Finnish \"Katajavuori\" to the Swedish equivalent Enberg on arrival in the U.S. as he felt it would be a simpler name. The surname means \"juniper mountain.\" Enberg said it pleased him that Jarkko Nieminen was doing so well as Finland is close to his heart and it is a small nation with few tennis facilities.\n\nWhile working at Saginaw, Michigan radio station WSAM early in his career, Enberg considered changing his name professionally to \"Dick Breen\" after being told that \"Enberg\" was too Jewish-sounding. The story of his surname is also detailed in his autobiography, \"Oh My!\".\n\nEnberg was the father of actor Alexander Enberg, actor-musician Andrew Enberg, and daughter Jennifer Enberg by former wife Jeri Taylor. At the time of his death, he was married to his second wife, Barbara (née Almori), with whom he had one son, Ted Enberg (also a sportscaster), and two daughters, Nicole and Emily.\n\nDick Enberg's son, Ted Enberg is a play-by-play broadcaster for ESPN, Pac-12 Network and called the U.S. Open Tennis Championships in 2017. Ted currently resides in San Diego and has a sports Podcast with PodcastOne entitled, Sound of Success. He is married to Sara Elizabeth Miller.\n\nEnberg penned a one-man theatrical play titled \"COACH\", as a tribute to his former television broadcast partner and late friend, Al McGuire, the extraordinary college basketball coach and commentator. It debuted at Marquette University's Helfaer Theater in 2005. It drew positive reviews as an accurate portrayal of the eccentric coach. At the 2007 NCAA Final Four in Atlanta, Enberg presented three performances of \"COACH\" at the Alliance Theater. Those attending the April 1 matinée included Hall of Famers coach Dean Smith (whom McGuire defeated in the 1977 NCAA Championship in Atlanta) and former UCLA All-American center Bill Walton. The play was then performed at Hofstra University, near Al's old neighborhood on Long Island in New York. It has since been booked in San Diego, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Chicago, Portland, Maine, North Carolina and Indiana. The most recent performance was at the New York Athletic Club in Manhattan. Actor Cotter Smith portrayed McGuire in the one-man show.\n\nEnberg served as Chairman of the American Sportscasters Association from 1983 until 2017. He was also a Board Member for the Lott IMPACT Trophy, which is named after Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive back Ronnie Lott and is given annually to college football's Defensive IMPACT Player of the Year.\n\nDick Enberg died on December 21, 2017, in La Jolla, California, from a suspected heart attack. He was 82.\n\n"}
{"id": "5177664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5177664", "title": "Equus (comics)", "text": "Equus (comics)\n\nEquus is a fictional comic book supervillain, a cyborg mercenary in the DC Comics universe who serves as an opponent of Superman. Created by writer Brian Azzarello and artist Jim Lee, he first appeared in \"Superman\" #206 (August 2004), which was published in June 2004 as part of the \"\" storyline.\n\nEquus first appears in the third issue of the year-long \"\" storyline that ran in \"Superman\" in 2004 and early 2005. A prototype for the OMAC Project, he comes into conflict with Superman when the superhero discovers that \"The Vanishing\", an event in which one million people completely disappeared from the face of the Earth (including his wife, Lois Lane), is traced to an unspecified country in the Middle East. Investigating, Superman intervenes in a civil war by using his speed to snatch all the guns from a group of men fighting one another. The fighting continues however, and in his continued quest to put an end to it, Superman confronts Equus, a large, monstrous, cybernetically enhanced humanoid creature whose claws are capable of piercing Superman's skin. General Nox, the leader of the rebels, puts an end to the fight between the two beings, telling Superman that his side has won the war, and showing him that the people outside the palace where Superman and Equus had fought were now cheering Nox's name.\n\nAlthough Superman initially stands down, he later appears before Nox, who has captured an advanced-looking device from the deposed regime, which his lieutenant informed him was, according to the confession of a minister of that regime, the weapon that was responsible for The Vanishing. Although still operational, it lacks any accuracy, functioning like a shotgun. Superman then appears, demanding to know of the weapon's origins, and when Nox informs him that the former king had intended to use it against Nox, and that the King is to be executed, along with more than a dozen other members of the king's regime, Superman intervenes, feeling that the condemned men deserve a trial, again coming to blows with Equus, who carries out the execution. During the fight, Superman rips the claws right out of Equus' right arm, and seemingly defeating him. Superman then returns to Nox's palace, confronting him with the question of what he intends to do with the weapon, but Equus also appears, and ignores Nox's orders to stand down, saying that he is not being paid by him. Nox reminds him that Equus is there to aid him, but Equus brushes Nox aside, and attacks Superman. Superman is less forgiving in this rematch, using his X-ray and microscopic visions to learn much about Equus' enhancements, and physically disabling much of their exterior components. Equus escapes by activating the weapon, causing not only himself to vanish, but another 300,000 other people from across the planet. Superman subsequently learns that Equus has been working for a mysterious mustached man named Mr. Orr, who explains to Superman that Orr's employer's financed Nox's war, and loaned Equus to them. Eventually, Superman tracks all the victims of the Vanishing to Metropia, an artificial paradise within the Phantom Zone, where he again encountered Equus, who has allied himself with General Zod, who is on a campaign to destroy Metropia. Equus, whose chestplate bears the Roman numeral \"III\", was the third version of a program to create super-soldiers. Equus, or \"Vee Three\" as he was designated, is said to be psychotic, due to the enlargement of the amygdalae to which the OMAC candidates were subjected.\n\nEquus III later appears in \"Titans/Outsiders Secret Files 2005\", stored alongside the Wildebeest, who had been captured in the same story.\n\nEquus reappeared under Mr. Orr's command in \"Countdown\" #36 (2007), clashing with Karate Kid and Triplicate Girl. After receiving a beating from Karate Kid, Equus was enraged that Mr. Orr, under Desaad's orders, would let them go. Equus severs the railroad tracks on which Karate Kid and Triplicate Girl's train is traveling, after having phoned the police, telling them that the derailment is a metahuman attack, and that the metahumans themselves are bio-weapons, leading the officers to shoot first and not ask questions. Karate Kid and Una eventually are able to beat Equus, disabling him and leaving him without an arm. The arm is retrieved for attachment, and Orr sets the Legionnaires on Buddy Blank's tracks.\n\nIn the 2008 \"Cyborg\" miniseries, the Titans are forced to fight numerous clones of Equus and the Wildebeest to prevent them from helping Victor Stone battle Mr. Orr's \"Cyborg Revenge Squad\". \n\nEquus is a human being who has undergone extensive genetic engineering, cybernetic enhancements, hormone therapy, and trans-species implantation as part of the One Man Army Corps (OMAC) project, which selected cancer patients as its subjects. Equus was the project's third version (or V3), immediately preceding his successor, Father Daniel Leone. Cancer was the platform on which the enhancements were based, as the cellular mutation responsible for the disease provided a stable environment for \"massive intrusion and acceleration.\"\n\nEquus stands approximately twice as tall as other humans, and possesses massive musculature on his upper torso. He has white skin composed of crocodilian skin cells laced with self-healing hinge molecules. His internal cybernetics are built upon a haptic interface, through which the numerous cables attached along various points of his body, and covering his head, are connected. His circulatory system includes webs of titanium-reinforced biometric arteries, and his endocrine system is filled with synthetic steroids, adrenaline, and endorphins. The artificial portions of his anatomy include three grades of soft plastic that Superman had never seen before prior to his first encounter with Equus. Equus' mechanical components are powered by a system of oligotronic solar powered fuel cells controlling seven different senses, and his nervous system is powered by enough electricity to power a city block.\n\nHe is capable of extending five razor-sharp claws from the knuckles of both of his hands, in a manner similar to the character of Wolverine. The claws corresponding to his fingers are approximately a foot long (with those corresponding to his thumbs considerably smaller), and while their composition is unknown, they are capable, given the physical strength Equus is capable of exerting with them, of piercing Superman's skin.\n\nEquus, the third version of the One Man Army Corps project, along with his predecessor, the second version, had their amygdalae enlarged as part of their genetic modifications, though this was scaled back for the subsequent versions, according to Mr. Orr, because this made the subjects psychotic. Specimens from the project that produced Equus were also said to have the wingbones of a fallen angel within their forearms.\n\nEquus has a wide face with two small eyes (alternately depicted as yellow or red), a small, snout-like nose, a row of large, shark-like teeth, and no hair. Where his ears would be are two ports into which several cables from his cybernetics connect. Exterior enhancements include two spectacle-like devices on his eyes. He is capable of quickly regenerating entire limbs that are severed from his body.\n\nBeginning with V4, The OMAC Project, in addition to reducing the subjects' amygdalae enlargement, added nanoparticle magneto-rheological fluids, housed in a carbon nanotubular vasculature system, in order to give the subjects the ability to continue functioning after death.\n"}
{"id": "10201672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10201672", "title": "Ercole Gonzaga", "text": "Ercole Gonzaga\n\nErcole Gonzaga (23 November 1505 – 2 March 1563) was an Italian Cardinal.\n\nBorn in Mantua, he was the son of the Marquis Francesco Gonzaga and Isabella d'Este, and nephew of Cardinal Sigismondo Gonzaga. He studied philosophy at Bologna under Pietro Pomponazzi, and later took up theology.\n\nIn 1520, or as some say, 1525, Sigismondo renounced in his favour the See of Mantua; in 1527 his mother Isabella brought him back from Rome the insignia of the cardinalate. He was chosen to be a cardinal at the very young age of 20, this quick ascention to power being the fruit of the diplomatic mastery of Isabella Gonzaga.\n\nNotwithstanding his youth, he showed great zeal for church reform, especially in his own diocese; and in this he received help and encouragement from his friend Cardinal Giberti, Bishop of Verona. His mode of life was stainless and a manuscript work of his, \"Vitae Christianae institutio\", bears witness to his piety. He published a Latin catechism for the use of the priests of his diocese and built the diocesan seminary, thus carrying out reforms urged by the Council of Trent, as his friends Contarini, Gilberti, Caraffa, and other bishops had done or were doing, even before the council had assembled.\n\nHis charity was unbounded, and many young men of talent and genius had their university expenses paid by him. The popes employed him on many embassies, e.g. to the Emperor Charles V in 1530. Because of his prudence and his business-like methods, he was a favourite with the popes, with Charles V, and Ferdinand I of Spain, and with Francis I of France and Henry II of France.\n\nFrom 1540 to 1556 he was guardian to the young sons of his brother Federico II Gonzaga who had died, and in their name he governed the Duchy of Mantua. The elder of the boys, Francesco, died in 1550 and was succeeded by his brother Guglielmo.\n\nIn the Papal conclave, 1559 it was thought he would certainly be made pope; but the cardinals would not choose as pope a scion of a ruling house. In 1561 Pope Pius IV named him papal legate to the Council of Trent, for which he had from the beginning laboured by every means at his command, moral and material. In its early stages, because not a few considered he was in favour of Communion under both kinds, he met with many difficulties, and interested motives were attributed to him. He contracted fever at Trento, where he died, attended by Diego Laynez.\n"}
{"id": "12204743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12204743", "title": "Flavius Afranius Syagrius", "text": "Flavius Afranius Syagrius\n\nFlavius Afranius Syagrius (\"floruit\" 345-382) was a Roman politician and administrator. He is claimed to be an ancestor of Saint Arnulf of Metz, and thus Charlemagne, being a rare case for descent from antiquity.\n\nAfranius was a member of the Roman aristocratic family of the Syagrii, which originated in Lyon. In the same years in which Afranius lived, another Syagrius is attested (he was consul in 381), but it is not always possible to distinguish the career of the two Syagrii.\n\nIn 369 he is attested as \"notarius\"; in that year the Roman Emperor Valentinian I removed him from his office after a failed military operation, and Afranius dedicated himself to private life.\n\nHe continued his career under Emperor Gratian, possibly because of his friendship with the poet Ausonius. Afranius was \"magister memoriae\" in 379, when some Theodorus succeeded him. Between June 18, 380, and August of 382 he is attested as Praetorian prefect of Italy. In 381 he was also \"praefectus urbi\" of Rome and Consul in 382.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4452336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4452336", "title": "Gloria Dickson", "text": "Gloria Dickson\n\nGloria Dickson (August 13, 1917 – April 10, 1945) was an American stage and screen actress of the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nBorn in Pocatello, Idaho as Thais Alalia Dickerson, she was the daughter of a banker. After her father's death in 1929, the family moved to California. She graduated from Long Beach Polytechnic High School.\n\nShe began acting during high school in amateur theatre productions. Encouraged by her acting coaches, she moonlighted doing dramatic readings at social clubs and on KFOX radio station in Long Beach, California.\n\nIn April 1936, as she worked in a production of the Federal Theatre Project, she was spotted by Warner Brothers talent scout Max Arnow who signed her to a Warner contract. Her film debut in 1937's \"They Won't Forget\" landed her on the top of Hollywood's short list of important up and comers, a distinction which garnered her enormous publicity. In autumn 1937, she was on many magazine covers and was the subject of several major movie magazine articles with titles like, \"The Luckiest Girl in the World\" and \"New Star of the Year\". \n\nDickson married Perc Westmore June 20, 1938, in Santa Barbara, California. She filed suit for divorce from him May 17, 1940. The uncontested divorce was granted June 22, 1941, in Los Angeles, California. Her second marriage was to director Ralph Murphy, whom she divorced in 1944. Later in 1944, she married William Fitzgerald, a former boxer.\n\nDickson died during a fire at her Los Angeles home caused by an unextinguished cigarette that ignited an overstuffed chair on the main floor while she slept upstairs. Her body, and that of her pet dog, were found in the bathroom, and it was assumed that she had attempted to escape through the bathroom window. She died from asphyxiation; flames had seared her lungs, and her body had suffered first- and second-degree burns. She is buried at Hollywood Forever Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24157463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24157463", "title": "H. Bowley (Sussex cricketer)", "text": "H. Bowley (Sussex cricketer)\n\nH Bowley (first name and dates unknown) was an English professional cricketer who played first-class cricket from 1823 to 1824 for Sussex, making 3 known appearances.\n\n"}
{"id": "2409756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2409756", "title": "Hemimastigophora", "text": "Hemimastigophora\n\nHemimastigophora is a group of eukaryotic organisms. It was established in 1988 by Foissner et al., as a new phylum with a single family, Spironemidae. Its placement on the eukaryote tree of life was unclear, but the authors suggested that the structure of its pellicle and cell nucleus indicated a close relationship with Euglenozoa. For thirty years after the erection of the group, no genetic information was available. During that time, researchers proposed that it should be classified in, or near, an assortment of other groups, including the alveolates, apusomonads, ancyromonads, and Rhizaria. \n\nIn an article published in 2018, it was announced that a new hemimastigophoran species, \"Hemimastix kukwesjijk\", had been discovered in a Nova Scotian soil sample, and successfully cultivated in the laboratory. A second hemimastigophoran, a new species of \"Spironema\", was found in the same sample. Phylogenomic analyses of the two organisms revealed that Hemimastigophora is a very ancient lineage, which diverged from the other eukaryotes at such an early date that the group should be classified at the supra-kingdom level. \n"}
{"id": "16811761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16811761", "title": "Impact of alcohol on aging", "text": "Impact of alcohol on aging\n\nThe impact of alcohol on aging is multifaceted. Evidence shows that alcoholism or chronic alcohol consumption can cause both accelerated (or premature) aging – in which symptoms of aging appear earlier than normal – and exaggerated aging, in which the symptoms appear at the appropriate time but in a more exaggerated form. The effects of alcohol abuse/misuse on the aging process include hypertension, cardiac dysrhythmia, cancers, gastrointestinal disorders, neurocognitive deficits, bone loss, and emotional disturbances especially depression. On the other hand, research also shows that drinking moderate amounts of alcohol may protect healthy adults from developing coronary heart disease. The American Heart Association cautions people not to start drinking, if you are not already drinking. \n\nAlcohol is a potent neurotoxin. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism has found, \"Alcoholism may accelerate normal aging or cause premature aging of the brain.\" Another report by the same agency found, \"Chronic alcohol consumption, as well as chronic glucocorticoid exposure, can result in premature and/or exaggerated aging.\" Specifically, alcohol activates the HPA axis, causing glucocorticoid secretion and thus elevating levels of stress hormones in the body. Chronic exposure to these hormones results in an acceleration of the aging process, which is associated with \"gradual, but often dramatic, changes over time in almost every physiological system in the human body. Combined, these changes result in decreased efficiency and resiliency of physiological function.\" Chronic stress and chronic heavy alcohol use cause a similar premature aging effect, including nerve cell degeneration in the hippocampus.\n\nAccording to the National Institutes of Health, researchers now understand that drinking moderate amounts of alcohol can protect the hearts of some people from the risks of coronary artery disease.\nBut, it's not possible to predict in which people alcoholism will become a problem. Given these and other risks, the American Heart Association cautions people not to start drinking. \n\nA study published in August 2010 in the journal, “Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research,” followed 1,824 participants between the ages of 55 and 65 and found that even after adjusting for all suspected covariates, abstainers and heavy drinkers continued to show increased mortality risks of 51 and 45%, respectively, compared to moderate drinkers. A follow-up study lists several cautions in interpreting the findings. For example, the results do not address nor endorse initiation of drinking among nondrinkers, and persons who have medical conditions which would be worsened by alcohol consumption should not drink alcohol. Additional research suggests that the reasons for alcohol abstinence may be a determining factor in the outcomes for abstainers: those who do not drink because of existing medical conditions or because of previous substance abuse issues have the highest rates of early death among the abstainers. Other groups of abstainers, such as those who do not drink because of family upbringing or moral/religious reasons, have mortality risks that are as low as those who drink in moderation. \n\n"}
{"id": "13434230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13434230", "title": "J. Herbert Frank", "text": "J. Herbert Frank\n\nJ. Herbert Frank (May 12, 1885 – March 7, 1926) was an American actor of the silent era. He appeared in 52 films between 1914 and 1924.\n\nFrank was born on May 12, 1885 in Manhattan, New York City. He died on March 7, 1926 in Los Angeles, California by committing suicide in his apartment using chloroform and gas. According to the Oakland Tribune, Frank was involved in narcotic investigations surrounding the death of Wallace Reid, and killed himself to avoid charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "7507589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7507589", "title": "Janet and Anne Grahame Johnstone", "text": "Janet and Anne Grahame Johnstone\n\nJanet Grahame Johnstone (1 June 1928 – 1979) and Anne Grahame Johnstone (1 June 1928 – 25 May 1998) were twin sisters and British children's book illustrators best known for their delicate, detailed prolific artwork and for illustrating Dodie Smith's classic book \"The Hundred and One Dalmatians\".\n\nThe twins were born in 1928 to successful British portraitist and costume designer Doris Zinkeisen and her husband, Captain Edward Grahame Johnstone. They attended the Heathfield School in Ascot, Berkshire during World War II; their artistic bent nurtured both at home and at school. Later, they attended Saint Martin's School of Art in London, where they studied period clothing styles before moving to Suffolk in 1966. The twins never married and would both live with their mother until their deaths (Zinkeisen died in 1991).\nThe Johnstone sisters' popularity took off in the early 1950s, when they were noticed by publishers and acquired a growing reputation as talented illustrators. They always worked together, passing drawings back and forth across their studio until both twins were satisfied with the final outcome. Janet specialized in animals and birds. Anne focused on the period costumes that so dominated their work. Because of their symbiotic collaboration, until the death of Janet in 1979, there was never a book illustrated under either one of their names alone.\n\nThe first important book the twins worked on was \"The Hundred and One Dalmatians\" by Dodie Smith, who was already a very successful playwright and author. In 1956 she invited them to illustrate her first children's book, and it was an immediate success, captivating parents and children alike. Eventually, Smith's book was made into a feature-length animated film by Walt Disney.\n\nThe twins' further success with later Smith books, \"The Starlight Barking\" and \"The Midnight Kittens\", made them the most widely recognized illustrators of children's books in England at the time. Their business association developed into an enduring friendship until Smith died in November 1990.\n\nAlthough not widely remembered, the twins at an early stage of their career worked extensively in British television, during the formative years of children's programming. They produced a considerable amount of artwork for programmes including \"Tai Lu\", \"Andy Pandy,\" and \"The Flower Pot Men.\" These programmes were very popular with British children during the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nOver the course of their career together, the sisters illustrated more than 100 books. These included classic fairytales by Hans Christian Andersen, the Brothers Grimm, J. M. Barrie, Charles Kingsley, a series based on Biblical tales, Roger Lancelyn Green's \"Tales of the Greeks and Trojans\" (Purnell and Sons, London, 1963), as well as a large variety of rhyme and modern story-collections. Early commissions included Enid Blyton's Tales of Ancient Greece (1951), and new illustrations for a shocking old German children's morality book, \"Struwwelpeter\" (1950). The Johnstones illustrated many of Paul Gallico's magical children's stories, working on \"Manxmouse\", \"The Man who was Magic\", and \"Miracle in the Wilderness\". Their most collectible book to date is Enid Blyton's 1979 Dean book, called, \"The Enchanted Wood\".\n\nMost of their work was done designing Christmas cards and illustrating numbers of large, brightly coloured gift books, mainly published by Dean. Their full-page illustrations surrounding nursery rhymes, fairy tales or children's prayers were in the tradition of undemanding effusiveness set by older artists like Hilda Boswell, still hugely popular with the public though increasingly frowned on by critics.\n\nJanet and Anne also illustrated many company logos and advertisements, including a wine label designed by the twins for their own brand of wine (Chateau Badingham). Their work was also featured in the British children's magazine \"Finding Out\".\nIn 1979, Janet died as a result of smoke inhalation following a fire in the kitchen, leaving Anne devastated and alone for the first time in her life. Their brother Murray described them together as one and a half rather than two people. Anne found herself unexpectedly responsible for the entire business enterprise previously shared with her sister, and managed to honour all of their outstanding commissions. She had to master the techniques for drawing and painting animals, particularly horses, which had been the specialty of her sister. Eventually she became so adept that she was elected a Member of the Society of Equestrian Artists in 1998.\n\nOn her own in the 1980s, Anne produced many fine illustrations. Two particularly notable books she illustrated were the editions of \"Peter Pan\" and \"The Water Babies\", published by Award Publications. Each year she also produced Christmas cards for Royles, which were very popular. Other projects included designs for limited edition Christmas jigsaw puzzles for the British game manufacturer Waddingtons, and two books she wrote and illustrated about Santa Claus. Over the years, she became an expert in 19th-century military uniforms and often worked as an heraldic artist through the College of Arms. Anne died of liver cancer in Badingham, Suffolk on 25 May 1998 at the age of 69. She continued to work until two days before her death.\n\nAt WorldCat, all catalogued works by Janet may be joint works with Anne. Meanwhile those works catalogued as by Anne alone are not in the LC Catalogue.\n"}
{"id": "37941373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37941373", "title": "Kaosikii dance", "text": "Kaosikii dance\n\nThe Kaosikii or Kaos'ikii dance is a dance invented on September 6, 1978 by the Indian philosopher and social reformer Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar aka Shrii Shrii Anandamurti (1921–1990).\n\nSarkar claims the \"kaos'ikii\" dance is a psycho-physical exercise which would benefit the mind by developing mental stamina and strength. Some hints to this dance are also contained in the speech \"The Cosmic Father Has a Special Responsibility\" given in Madras (India) on December 4, 1978 and later published in \"\"Ánanda Vacanámrtam\" Part 6, Chapter 5\" and \"Discourses on \"Tantra\" Volume Two, Chapter 23\".\n\n“The name Kaoshikii comes from the Sanskrit word kosha, meaning “layer of mind”. Kaoshikii develops the subtler layers of mind, cultivating the feeling of mysticism – the endeavour to establish a link between the finite and the infinite – in one’s consciousness. It instils self-confidence and encourages self-expression.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3678921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3678921", "title": "Legend of the Mistletoe Bough", "text": "Legend of the Mistletoe Bough\n\nThe Legend of the Mistletoe Bough is a horror story which has been associated with many mansions and stately homes in England.\n\nA new bride, playing a game of hide-and-seek during her wedding breakfast, hides in a chest in an attic and is unable to escape. She is not discovered by her family and friends, and suffocates or dies of thirst. The body is found many years later in the locked chest as a skeleton in a wedding dress.\n\nNotable claimants for the story's location, some still displaying the chest, include Bramshill House and Marwell Hall in Hampshire, Castle Horneck in Cornwall, Basildon Grotto in Berkshire, Minster Lovell Hall in Oxfordshire, Exton Hall in Rutland, Brockdish Hall in Norfolk and Bawdrip Rectory in Somerset.\n\nThe tale first appeared in print in the form of a poem by Samuel Rogers entitled Ginevra, in his book 'Italy' published in 1822. In notes on this work, Rogers states ‘The story is, I believe, founded on fact; though the time and the place are uncertain. Many old houses lay claim to it.’ See also \"The Bride of Modena\" by John Heneage Jesse, in: \"Tales of the Dead, and Other Poems\", London 1830, pp. 35-59 books.google.\n\nThe popularity of the tale was greatly increased when it appeared as a song in the 1830s entitled 'The Mistletoe Bough' written by T.H. Bayley and Sir Henry Bishop. The song proved very popular. In 1859, its 'solemn chanting' was referred to as a 'national occurrence at Christmas' in English households, and by 1862 the song was referred to as 'one of the most popular songs ever written', 'which must be known by heart by many readers'.\n\nFurther works inspired by the song include a play of the same name by Charles A Somerset first produced in 1835. A short story, 'Ginevra or The Old Oak Chest: A Christmas Story' by Susan E Wallace published in 1887 and another short story \"The Romance of Certain Old Clothes\" by Henry James published in 1868. The song is also played in Thomas Hardy's \"A Laodicean\", after the scene involving the capture of George Somerset's handkerchief from the tower.\n\nKate Mosse reinterpreted the story in her 2013 short story collection \"The Mistletoe Bride and Other Haunting Tales\".\n\nFilm versions of the story include a 1904 production by the Clarendon Film Company, directed by Percy Stow; a 1923 version made by the British and Colonial Kinematograph Company; and a 1926 production by Cosmopolitan Films, directed by C.C. Calvert.\n\nThe Percy Stow film version of the story can be seen on the BFI player with a new specially commissioned score by Pete Wiggs from the band Saint Etienne \n\nThe story of the Mistletoe Bough is recounted in the 1948 Alfred Hitchcock film \"Rope\", where it is described as being the favourite tale of the main character, Brandon Shaw. Unbeknownst to the story teller, the body of his murdered son had been hidden by Shaw in the chest in front of which they are standing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1100939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100939", "title": "Leopold V, Duke of Austria", "text": "Leopold V, Duke of Austria\n\nLeopold V (1157 – 31 December 1194), known as the Virtuous (), a member of the House of Babenberg, was Duke of Austria from 1177 and Duke of Styria from 1192 until his death.\n\nLeopold was the son of the Austrian duke Henry II Jasomirgott from his second marriage with the Byzantine princess Theodora, a daughter of Andronikos Komnenos, the second eldest son of Emperor John II Komnenos. Just before his birth, his father had achieved the elevation of the Austrian margraviate to a duchy according to the 1156 \"Privilegium Minus\", issued by Emperor Frederick Barbarossa. As the eldest son of Henry II, Leopold was already enfeoffed with the Austrian duchy by the emperor in the summer of 1174 at Regensburg.\n\nHe succeeded his father as Duke of Austria upon his death on 13 January 1177. Soon after, Leopold lent his support to Duke Frederick of Bohemia stuck in a conflict with his Přemyslid cousin Soběslav II, who had campaigned in the Austrian duchy. In turn, Leopold reached a peace agreement with the neighbouring Duchy of Bohemia, determined by Emperor Frederick Barbarossa at Eger in 1179. Two years later, he attended an Imperial Diet in Erfurt, where his first-born son Frederick was enfeoffed with the Austrian estate. In 1182 Leopold went on a pilgrimage to the Holy Land and was received with honour at the courts of King Béla III of Hungary and of Emperor Alexios II Komnenos in Constantinople.\n\nBack in Germany, he began negotiating the Georgenberg Pact with the last Otakar duke Ottokar IV of Styria, who had received the ducal title from Emperor Frederick in 1180. The agreement was concluded on 17 August 1186, whereafter Styria and the central part of Upper Austria with Wels and Steyr were amalgamated into the Duchy of Austria upon Ottokar's death in 1192. The next year Leopold was enfeoffed with Styria by the emperor; this was the first step towards the creation of modern Austria.\n\nLeopold is mainly remembered outside Austria for his participation in the Third Crusade. Border disputes with King Béla III of Hungary had initially impeded the duke from accompanying Emperor Frederick on his departure in May 1189. When he heard about the emperor's death in 1190, he went to Venice, where he embarked to the Holy Land. Autumn storms forced him to winter in Zadar on the Adriatic coast. He arrived in Palestine to take part in the final stage of the Siege of Acre in spring 1191. Leopold assumed command of the remnants of the Imperial forces after the death of the emperor's son Duke Frederick of Swabia in January. According to legend, his tunic was blood-soaked after the fights. When he doffed his belt, a white stripe appeared. The new emperor Henry VI granted him the privilege to adopt these colours as his new banner, that later would become the flag of Austria.\n\nAcre surrendered on July 12, after the arrival of King Philip II of France and King Richard I of England. Duke Leopold, as commander of the German contingent, demanded rights equal to those of the two kings but was rejected. When the banners of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, England, France and Leopold's ducal flag were raised in the city by Leopold's cousin, Marquis Conrad of Montferrat, Richard removed Leopold's colours (see Siege of Acre) and the duke wrathfully left for his Austrian home, where he arrived by the end of 1191. In January 1192 he proceeded to the court of Emperor Henry VI and complained bitterly about Richard, who also was suspected of involvement in the murder of Conrad, shortly after his election as King of Jerusalem in April.\n\nThe emperor probably agreed with King Philip, already in conflict with the English king, on Richard's capture. When Richard left the Holy Land in late October 1192, he found the French ports closed and sailed up the Adriatic Sea. He took the country road from Aquileia across Austria, to reach the Bavarian estates of his Welf brother-in-law Henry the Lion. Whilst travelling under disguise, he stopped at Vienna shortly before Christmas 1192, where he was recognized (supposedly because of his signet ring) and arrested in Erdberg (modern Landstraße district). Initially Duke Leopold had the king imprisoned in Dürnstein, and in March 1193 Richard was brought before Emperor Henry VI at Trifels Castle, accused of Conrad's murder. A ransom of 35,000 kilograms of silver was paid to release King Richard. Leopold demanded that Richard's niece, Eleanor, marry his son Frederick. Due to Leopold's death, this marriage never took place. Leopold's share of the ransom became the foundation for the mint in Vienna, and was used to build new city walls for Vienna, as well as to found the towns of Wiener Neustadt and Friedberg in Styria. The duke was excommunicated by Pope Celestine III for having taken a fellow crusader prisoner.\n\nTo receive absolution, Leopold prepared for another crusade, but this plan failed. In 1194, his foot was crushed when his horse fell on him at a tournament in Graz. Though advised by his surgeons to have the foot amputated, no one admitted to being able to do it. He ordered his servants to chop his foot off with an axe, which they succeeded in doing after three swings. He succumbed to gangrene. As a result of deathbed promises to make restitution given to the hastily-summoned Archbishop Adalbert of Salzburg, he was reconciled and received a Christian burial at Heiligenkreuz Abbey.\n\nAt Pentecost 1174, Leopold married Helena (1158–1199), a daughter of late King Géza II of Hungary. By her, Leopold had at least two children:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40305296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40305296", "title": "Living Interfaith Church", "text": "Living Interfaith Church\n\nLiving Interfaith Church is a religious unity founded by Steven Greenebaum and based in Lynnwood, Washington, United States, which embraces the teachings of all spiritual paths that lead people to seek a life of compassionate action.\n\nInterfaith, as a faith, does not seek to discover which religion or spiritual path is \"right\". Rather, it recognizes that everyone is brother and sister, and that at different times and different places we have encountered the sacred differently.\n\nLiving Interfaith Church celebrates differing spiritual paths. They claim that what is the same in every religion is the call to compassion, the call to think beyond ourselves, and to recognize that we are all connected. Interfaith \"calls upon us not to ignore our differences, but to rather to respect them, and to realize that each of our paths, in their own special and different way, call us to love and to be loving\".\n\nThe church views Interfaith as a faith that celebrates humanity's differing spiritual paths. It believes that a person's actions in this world are what count and that humanity is called to engage the world, both with compassion and with love. A stated tenet of the church is to respect all faith traditions and not to ignore their importance or their differences. Christianity is acknowledged as different from Buddhism. Islam is acknowledged as different from Humanism, and so forth. According to the movement, the claim of Interfaith as a faith is that what is the same within all of humanity’s spiritual paths is the call to compassion, to thinking beyond ourselves, and to recognizing that we are all connected.\n\nGreenebaum stated that \"interfaith, as a spiritual practice, can serve as a new model for how we deal with each other and a new vision for how we act on our religious beliefs to live compassionate lives and share the world in harmony.\" \n\nReverend Steven Greenebaum, the founder of the Living Interfaith Church, grew up as a Reform Jew in suburban Los Angeles.\n\nHe has a Master's degree in Mythology, Music, and Pastoral Studies. His experiences directing Jewish, Methodist, Presbyterian, and Interfaith choirs have helped him to understand the profound wisdom of many spiritual traditions. He has dedicated his life to working for social and environmental justice through a multitude of forums. When asked about his entity, he explained: “My faith is Interfaith. My spiritual path is Judaism. My tribe is Humanity. I’m also a minister, choir director, and vegetarian.”\n\nIn 2012 he published his first book \"The Interfaith Alternative: Embracing Spiritual Diversity\" through New Society Publishers.\nHis second book, \"Practical Interfaith\", was published by \"Skylight Paths\" in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "32315022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32315022", "title": "Lizzie Arlington", "text": "Lizzie Arlington\n\nElizabeth Stride (August 31, 1877 - 1919), known professionally as Lizzie Arlington, was an American baseball player. She was the first woman to play for a professional men's baseball team.\n\nArlington was the youngest of six children born to English emigrants Henry and Mary Stride. She grew up in Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania, where she played baseball with her father and brothers.\n\nOn June 20, 1891, at age 13, Arlington took the field as the pitcher for the Mahanoy City baseball team against the visiting Cincinnati Reds (a professional women's team barnstorming through the area). Reds' manager Mark Lally, impressed with her play, immediately recruited and signed her to play for his team. Arlington played three seasons with the Reds, including two where she shared pitching duties with Maud Nelson.\n\nArlington played for the Young Ladies Baseball Club of New York in 1894 and the other Young Ladies Baseball Club of New York (also known as the New York Stars) in 1895.\n\nIn 1898, sporting and theatrical promoter William J. Connor engaged Arlington for $100.00 a week and negotiated with Atlantic League president Edward G. Barrow for her to sign a minor league contract. She debuted later that year while pitching for the reserve team of the Philadelphia Nationals, and continued to pitch and play infield against several professional clubs in exhibition games around the country throughout the summer.\n\nOn July 5, 1898, Arlington became the first woman to play for a professional men's baseball team when she pitched the ninth inning for the Reading Coal Heavers against the Allentown Peanuts. Reading was leading 5-0 heading into the final inning when Arlington entered the game. Though she allowed two hits and walked a batter to load the bases, Arlington succeeded in retiring the next three batters to preserve the victory, as the crowd enthusiastically shouted \"Good for Lizzie!\"\n\nThe \"Reading Eagle\" newspaper reported that more than a thousand fans, including 200 women, attended the game to see what Arlington looked like and what she wore. She entered the grounds in a \"stylish carriage drawn by two white horses\" and, responding to applause by lifting her cap, revealed her hair done in the latest fashion. She wore black stockings and a gray uniform with knee-length skirt. During the pre-game practice, Arlington played second base like a professional, \"even down to expectorating on her hands and wiping them on her uniform\", according to the report.\n\nThe verdict of the \"Eagle\"'s sports writer was that Arlington might do all right among amateurs but lacked control and the strength to get much speed in the ball. However, he added, \"for a woman, she is a success.\" A writer for the \"Hartford Courant\", anticipating her coming to play for the locals against the Newark team, commented, \"It is said that she plays ball like a man and talks ball like a man and if it was not for her bloomers she would be taken for a man on the diamond, having none of the peculiarities of women ball players.\" But authorities cancelled the appearance of Arlington in Hartford, reportedly because the home team management wanted to take no chances on losing the game, and thereafter her name disappeared from the sports pages.\n"}
{"id": "21061818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21061818", "title": "Marcus Schrenker", "text": "Marcus Schrenker\n\nMarcus Schrenker (born ~1971) is a former financial advisor from Indiana. He is best known for attempting to fake his own death due to personal, financial, and legal trouble and for the multi-state, three-day manhunt that followed in January 2009.\n\nHis first wife Michelle divorced him, and after pleading guilty to federal charges he was sentenced to 51 months in prison and fined $905,000 in June 2009. In October 2010, after pleading guilty to state charges, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison (consecutive with the 51 months) and was fined $633,781\n\nSchrenker grew up in Merrillville, Indiana and attended Purdue University, where he was a cheerleader and met his wife.\n\nPrior to January 2009, Schrenker lived with his wife and three children in a $1M waterfront house in Geist, a wealthy suburb of Indianapolis. and he owned a plane and a Lexus.\n\nSchrenker was listed as the owner of three companies, Heritage Wealth Management Inc. (HWM) and Icon Wealth Management, which had the same address, as well as Heritage Insurance Services, which was also at the same address. In December 2008 Schrenker and HWM was sued by another company that was trying to get back $1.4 million for commissions it had paid to Schrenker for selling insurance and annuity policies.\n\nOn December 30 his wife filed for divorce because he had been having an affair with a woman at the airport where he kept his plane. The next day, his Indiana state financial advisor license expired, all three of his companies were searched under a warrant related to ongoing investigations,\n\nAt the beginning of January, the Indiana Department of Insurance had filed a motion to revoke the license of Schrenker and Heritage and fine them, \"citing a string of complaints from clients, some charging that he forged signatures and withdrew investment money causing large surrender penalties.\" And on January 9, Schrenker had been ordered by a Maryland court to pay a Maryland insurance company $533,564 for issues also related to commissions. Schrenker was also being investigated by the FBI at the time the events occurred.\n\nIn all, at least eight lawsuits had been filed against Schrenker in the ten years leading up to the events of January 2009, including slander, interfering with a business relationship, and failing to pay a contractor who worked on one of his homes.\n\nOn Saturday, January 10, 2009, Schrenker traveled to Harpersville, Alabama, in a pickup truck carrying a red Yamaha motorcycle with saddlebags containing money and supplies. He returned to Indiana after placing the motorcycle in a storage facility, telling the owner he would return and retrieve the motorcycle the following Monday.\n\nOn January 11, 2009, Schrenker departed in his turboprop single-engine Piper Meridian (tail number N428DC) from an airfield in Anderson, Indiana, scheduled to fly to Destin, Florida. Near Birmingham, Alabama, he made a distress call, telling air traffic controllers that his windshield had imploded and he was \"bleeding profusely.\" He then set the plane to autopilot and parachuted out. Military jets that had been dispatched to intercept Schrenker's plane discovered it in flight, with its door open and cockpit empty. They followed the plane until it crashed just north of Milton, Florida at about 9:20pm. The plane had flown on autopilot and crashed 50 to 75 yards from a residential area. Upon inspecting the crash site, investigators discovered that there was no blood inside the plane and the windshield showed no sign of problem. On board the aircraft they found a United States atlas and a national campground directory, both of which had the Florida and Alabama sections torn out.\n\nAfter parachuting to the ground, Schrenker made his way to a private residence in Childersburg, Alabama, arriving around 2:30am on January 12. Appearing wet from the knees down, he told the resident he had been in a canoeing accident. He received a ride into town, where he made contact with the local police station. Not yet linking Schrenker to the crash, the police brought him to a hotel in Harpersville, where he checked in under a false name and paid for his room with cash. When police returned later that morning, he had fled on foot into nearby woods. Schrenker then traveled to the storage facility where he had earlier stored his motorcycle, and then rode the vehicle to a KOA Campground in Quincy, Florida. Without offering his name, he told the owners of the grounds that he was traveling cross country with friends, using cash to purchase a one-night tent site, firewood, and a six pack of Bud Light Lime. He was also given access to the campground's wireless internet.\n\nOn January 12, Schrenker emailed neighbor and friend Tom Britt, stating the crash was \"a misunderstanding\" and that he had checked into the motel because he was \"embarrassed and scared\" of returning home. He also said that he would likely \"be gone\" by the time Britt read the email. Britt turned the email over to the police. The same day, a Hamilton County Superior Court judge froze the assets of both Schrenker and his estranged wife.\n\nAt about 10pm on January 13, officials captured Schrenker in a pup tent at the Quincy campground; they had roughly located him using information from the email he had sent. The ground's owners, Troy and Caroline Hastings, grew suspicious when the man had failed to check out by 5pm. Upon approaching Schrenker's site, Troy Hasting noticed a large red stain on the outer flap of his tent. The couple were soon contacted by the local sheriff, who asked if anything unusual had happened recently at the camp. Mr. Hastings told the officer about the suspicious camper; shortly thereafter, authorities swarmed the campground.\n\nInvestigators told the press that he had slashed his left wrist, had an additional self-inflicted wound near his elbow, and was barely conscious. US Marshal Assistant Chief Deputy Frank Chiumento said that Schrenker \"wasn’t able to speak very clearly. A lot of the words that he was speaking were unintelligible, but he mentioned 'die' at least two times as we were providing medical treatment to him.\" He was in a \"very incoherent state\" and had lost massive amounts of blood by the time authorities first arrived, but paramedics were able to control his bleeding and he was Life-Flighted to Tallahassee Memorial Hospital. Among the items found at the campground with him were knives, a laptop computer, toiletries, clothes and maps.\n\nOn January 13, 2009, Schrenker was charged in Hamilton County, Indiana with 11 counts of unlawful acts by a compensated adviser and unlawful transaction by an investment adviser, and his bail was set at $4 million.\n\nIn May 2009 an Alabama judge granted a $12 million judgment against Schrenker related to the sale of an airplane to a man from Alabama.\n\nIn June 2009 Schrenker pleaded guilty to federal charges of destroying an aircraft and causing the U.S. Coast Guard to respond when no help was needed. In August he was sentenced to four years and three months in prison and was required to pay $34,000 in restitution to the Coast Guard and $871,000 in restitution to Harley-Davidson, the plane's lien-holder.\n\nBy August 2010, his possessions had been sold off and there were civil claims against him totaling about $20M. In August 2010 he reached a deal with Indiana prosecutors to plead guilty to five counts of securities fraud, serve 10 years in prison and pay victims of his schemes more than $630,000, and in October the judgement was entered, with the 10 years' imprisonment ordered to run consecutively with the sentence on the federal charges for the faked plane crash. A hearing on his ongoing divorce was scheduled for later that October.\n"}
{"id": "5701749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5701749", "title": "Mental Cases", "text": "Mental Cases\n\n\"Mental Cases\" is one of Wilfred Owen's more disturbing poems. It describes war-torn men suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, otherwise known as shell shock. Owen based the poem on his experience of Craiglockhart Military Hospital, near Edinburgh, where he was invalided in the summer of 1917 with neurasthenia, and became the patient of Dr A.J. Brock. Using imagery of death and violence, Owen presents a chilling portrait of men haunted by their experiences.\n\nhttp://www.slideshare.net/rgarofano/mental-cases-analysis"}
{"id": "3515035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3515035", "title": "Nabaztag", "text": "Nabaztag\n\nNabaztag (Armenian for \"hare\", նապաստակ (\"napastak\")) is a Wi-Fi enabled ambient electronic device in the shape of a rabbit, invented by Rafi Haladjian and Olivier Mével, and manufactured by the company Violet. Nabaztag was designed to be a \"smart object\" comparable to those manufactured by Ambient Devices; it can connect to the Internet (to download weather forecasts, read its owner's email, etc.). It is also customizable and programmable to an extent. Sylvain Huet developed most of the embedded code of all Violet objects. Sebastien Bourdeauducq developed the Wi-Fi driver. Antoine Schmitt has been their behavior designer and Jean-Jacques Birgé their sound designer (together they have also composed \"Nabaz'mob\", an opera for 100 Nabaztag). Maÿlis Puyfaucher (who features its French voice) wrote all the original texts pronounced by the rabbit.\n\nOn 20 October 2009, following a long period of technical difficulties that ultimately led to Violet's bankruptcy, Mindscape purchased Violet.\n\nIn October 2010, Mindscape announced a third generation Nabaztag, called \"Karotz\". Karotz was released April 2012.\n\nOn 27 July 2011, Mindscape stopped the maintenance of the Nabaztag and released its source code.\n\nOn 23 December 2011, it was announced that the Nabaztag rabbits would be \"coming back to life\" on 24 December 2011 at midnight via email to those with Violet accounts. The required server service at Nabaztag.com has since stopped functioning, but other options exist including setting up a server using OpenNab software or installing NabaztagLives on a Raspberry Pi single-board computer.\n\nOut of the box, the Nabaztag rabbit is in height and weighs . It can send and receive MP3s and messages that are read out loud as well as perform the following services (by either speaking the information out loud or using indicative lights): weather forecast, stock market report, news headlines, alarm clock, e-mail alerts, RSS-Feeds, MP3-Streams and others.\n\nThere is an API, with bindings for multiple programming languages including Java, Perl, Python, or PHP, available to program the Nabaztag.\n\nAt first speaking only in English and French, as of June 2007, Nabaztag fully supports services in German, Italian, Spanish and Dutch.\n\nThe rabbits can be customized with Skinz tattoos, detachable USB tails in various colors, and many interchangeable ears with different designs and colors. The Nabaztag:tag and Karotz versions are capable of reading RFID chips, and products containing RFID chips include the Flatanoz key ring tags, miniature models of the rabbits called Nano:ztag, and some children's books. Individual RFID chips were also produced and were called ztamp:s.\n\nNabaztag owners can join social networks to share photos and videos on websites like Flickr and YouTube. Users can create podcasts (dubbed \"Nabcasts\" by Violet). There are currently over 100 of these available, mostly in English and French, created by different users on a variety of topics.\n\nSince Nabaztags can be programmed to provide new services using the API, there are user-created applications available, including a Dashboard widget and a lottery alarm.\n\nIn December 2006 (most notably around Christmas) a number of sold rabbits caused issues for Violet, the maker of Nabaztag. The Nabaztag device acts as a client to the France-based servers. When users attempted to register their new devices, the centralized servers were unable to handle the demand, resulting in service disruptions, server unavailability, and data integrity problems caused by users creating multiple half-finished registrations. This resulted in a major customer service problem for Violet. The fundamental philosophy of Nabaztag, that all objects should be connected together on the Internet by a server maintained by Violet did not work as expected (e.g. the server sometimes could not cope with volume of traffic, services had to be switched off and there were unreliable response times often as slow as hours rather than seconds).\n\nIn March 2008, Violet changed their server infrastructure and bunny software to use the standard XMPP protocol. Bunnies were thereafter reacting much more rapidly on average, although long delays still occurred sometimes. The change caused service disruptions and problems for a couple of weeks.\n\nThe device embeds a PIC18F6525 microcontroller, a BenQ PC card 802.11b Wi-Fi adapter, an ml2870a Audio-PCM sound generator, an ADPCM converter, two motors to activate the ears, a TLC5922 LED controller, and a small amount of memory.\n\nThe embedded software handles the TCP/IP stack and Wi-Fi driver. It also implements a virtual machine which is able to execute up to 64 kb of code. A dedicated assembly language exists to program the different features of the device.\n\nOut on market on 12 December 2006, Nabaztag/tag is an improved model of Violet's Nabaztag. The new model supports MP3 audio streaming for Internet radio (with preset radio stations and an app allowing to add your own stream that does not work) and podcasts. This second version Nabaztag has also added a microphone that allows for voice activation of some of its services. However, despite text on the website claiming that new services will be available soon, the number of working voice activated services remains less than a handful. A final added feature is a built-in RFID reader to detect special-purpose RFID tags (i.e. ISO/IEC 14443 Type B). Nabaztag advertisement is presenting the ability to identify objects (depicted are e.g. keys).\n\nNabaztag/tag can, as of November 2007, use RFID tags to read special edition versions of children's books by the French publisher Gallimard Jeunesse. In October 2008, Violet launched RFID Children's Books with Penguin Publishing House. Further RFID services and support have been promised. Violet has now started selling the Zstamps and Nano:ztags (little mini Rabbits with Zstamps inside them) and another called which is its own RFID system separate from the Nabaztag.\n\nThe Wi-Fi was also upgraded to support WPA encryption, and now uses a cheaper SoftMAC card instead of the BenQ device which embedded its own 802.11 protocol stack.\n\nMindscape, filing for bankruptcy, discontinued the Nabaztag/tag web service in late July 2011.\n\nAlternative servers are available, including:\n\nIt however should be noted that these services, and others not listed here, can't support the older Nabaztag.\n\nThe older units can currently be connected to a user-driven restoration of the old domain; however, the user is currently unable to add new applications or customize the Nabaztag \"v1\" configuration. As for now (January 2012), the older units are provided with random utterances of French phrases and jokes (the \"Moods\" application), periodic choreographies of ear movements and lights (the \"Tai-Chi\" application) and a fixed sleep-awake cycle, as the older units used a proprietary audio format and were handled by the Violet/Mindscape server in a different way than the Nabaztag/tag.\n\nKarotz is the third generation Nabaztag, and first to be released since the Mindscape purchase. Like its predecessors, Karotz connects to the Internet using Wi-Fi and has RFID reading capability. Additionally, it includes an integrated web cam, a USB port (which can be used for power as well as connectivity), and 256 MB of onboard storage. Karotz was released in April 2011 and is heavily integrated with Facebook and Twitter.\n\nIn October 2011 Mindscape was taken over by Aldebaran Robotics quoting \"Together we shall go on with this wonderful adventure\".\n\nIn October 2014 Aldebaran Robotics announce\"The end of Karotz's adventures\" with \"nearly 10 years after its first appearance, Karotz is facing a very strong technological competition: the connected devices are now 4G, mobile and evolutionary. Karotz and its users have not only helped establish connected devices; they have paved the way. New products make a stronger match to market needs, marking the end of Karotz's great story.\"\n\n\"Karotz's servers and customer service will be stopped on February 18th, 2015\"\n\nIn 2016, two years after \"The end of Karotz's adventures\" a new English enabled API has been set up to bring Karotz out of retirement from a volunteer initiative called Free Rabbits!\n\nDuring DEF CON 21, Daniel Crowley, Jenniver Savage and David Bryan pointed out several security vulnerabilities about the Karotz. Unsecured connections to the website's provider could allow a hacker to steal the users' Wifi passwords, take control of the Karotz, installing a malware and even to corrupt the device without any knowledge of the end user. During the same talk, they also show how it was possible to spy around the Karotz due to the presence of the camera and the microphone embedded in the bunny.\n\nViolet was awarded honourable mentions, category \"Small companies\" of the DME Award 2007 for Nabaztag.\n\nNabaztag/tag was awarded for Netxplorateur of the Year in 2008.\n\nNabaz'mob was awarded by Prix Ars Electronica Digital Musics 2009 (Award of Distinction).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33246145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33246145", "title": "Neural decoding", "text": "Neural decoding\n\nNeural decoding is a neuroscience field concerned with the hypothetical reconstruction of sensory and other stimuli from information that has already been encoded and represented in the brain by networks of neurons. Reconstruction refers to the ability of the researcher to predict what sensory stimuli the subject is receiving based purely on neuron action potentials. Therefore, the main goal of neural decoding is to characterize how the electrical activity of neurons elicit activity and responses in the brain.\n\nThis article specifically refers to neural decoding as it pertains to the mammalian neocortex.\n\nWhen looking at a picture, people's brains are constantly making decisions about what object they are looking at, where they need to move their eyes next, and what they find to be the most salient aspects of the input stimulus. As these images hit the back of the retina, these stimuli are converted from varying wavelengths to a series of neural spikes called action potentials. These pattern of action potentials are different for different objects and different colors; we therefore say that the neurons are encoding objects and colors by varying their spike rates or temporal pattern. Now, if someone were to probe the brain by placing electrodes in the primary visual cortex, they may find what appears to be random electrical activity. These neurons are actually firing in response to the lower level features of visual input, possibly the edges of a picture frame. This highlights the crux of the neural decoding hypothesis: that it is possible to reconstruct a stimulus from the response of the ensemble of neurons that represent it. In other words, it is possible to look at spike train data and say that the person or animal being recorded is looking at a red ball.\n\nWith the recent breakthrough in large-scale neural recording and decoding technologies, researchers have begun to crack the neural code and already provided the first glimpse into the real-time neural code of memory traces as memory is formed and recalled in the hippocampus, a brain region known to be central for memory formation. Neuroscientists have initiated large-scale brain activity mapping or brain decoding project to construct the brain-wide neural codes.\n\nImplicit about the decoding hypothesis is the assumption that neural spiking in the brain somehow represents stimuli in the external world. The decoding of neural data would be impossible if the neurons were firing randomly: nothing would be represented. This process of decoding neural data forms a loop with neural encoding. First, the organism must be able to perceive a set of stimuli in the world – say a picture of a hat. Seeing the stimuli must result in some internal learning: the encoding stage. After varying the range of stimuli that is presented to the observer, we expect the neurons to adapt to the statistical properties of the signals, encoding those that occur most frequently: the efficient-coding hypothesis. Now neural decoding is the process of taking these statistical consistencies, a statistical model of the world, and reproducing the stimuli. This may map to the process of thinking and acting, which in turn guide what stimuli we receive, and thus, completing the loop.\n\nIn order to build a model of neural spike data, one must both understand how information is originally stored in the brain and how this information is used at a later point in time. This neural coding and decoding loop is a symbiotic relationship and the crux of the brain's learning algorithm. Furthermore, the processes that underlie neural decoding and encoding are very tightly coupled and may lead to varying levels of representative ability.\n\nMuch of the neural decoding problem depends on the spatial resolution of the data being collected. The number of neurons needed to reconstruct the stimulus with reasonable accuracy depends on the means by which data is collected and the area being recorded. For example, rods and cones (which respond to colors of small visual areas) in the retina may require more recordings than simple cells (which respond to orientation of lines) in the primary visual cortex.\n\nPrevious recording methods relied on stimulating single neurons over a repeated series of tests in order to generalize this neuron's behavior. New techniques such as high-density multi-electrode array recordings and multi-photon calcium imaging techniques now make it possible to record from upwards of a few hundred neurons. Even with better recording techniques, the focus of these recordings must be on an area of the brain that is both manageable and qualitatively understood. Many studies look at spike train data gathered from the ganglion cells in the retina, since this area has the benefits of being strictly feedforward, retinotopic, and amenable to current recording granularities. The duration, intensity, and location of the stimulus can be controlled to sample, for example, a particular subset of ganglion cells within a structure of the visual system. Other studies use spike trains to evaluate the discriminatory ability of non-visual senses such as rat facial whiskers and the olfactory coding of moth pheromone receptor neurons.\n\nEven with ever-improving recording techniques, one will always run into the limited sampling problem: given a limited number of recording trials, it is impossible to completely account for the error associated with noisy data obtained from stochastically functioning neurons (for example, a neuron's electric potential fluctuates around its resting potential due to a constant influx and efflux of sodium and potassium ions). Therefore, it is not possible to perfectly reconstruct a stimulus from spike data. Luckily, even with noisy data, the stimulus can still be reconstructed within acceptable error bounds.\n\nTimescales and frequencies of stimuli being presented to the observer are also of importance to decoding the neural code. Quicker timescales and higher frequencies demand faster and more precise responses in neural spike data. In humans, millisecond precision has been observed throughout the visual cortex, the retina, and the lateral geniculate nucleus, so one would suspect this to be the appropriate measuring frequency. This has been confirmed in studies that quantify the responses of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus to white-noise and naturalistic movie stimuli. At the cellular level, spike-timing-dependent plasticity operates at millisecond timescales; therefore, models seeking biological relevance should be able to perform at these temporal scales.\n\nWhen decoding neural data, arrival times of each spike formula_1, and the probability of seeing a certain stimulus, formula_2 may be the extent of the available data. The prior distribution formula_2 defines an ensemble of signals, and represents the likelihood of seeing a stimulus in the world based on previous experience. The spike times may also be drawn from a distribution formula_4; however, what we want to know is the probability distribution over a set of stimuli given a series of spike trains formula_5, which is called the response-conditional ensemble. What remains is the characterization of the neural code by translating stimuli into spikes, formula_6; the traditional approach to calculating this probability distribution has been to fix the stimulus and examine the responses of the neuron. Combining everything using Bayes' Rule results in the simplified probabilistic characterization of neural decoding: formula_7. An area of active research consists of finding better ways of representing and determining formula_8. The following are some such examples.\n\nThe simplest coding strategy is the spike train number coding. This method assumes that the spike number is the most important quantification of spike train data. In spike train number coding, each stimulus is represented by a unique firing rate across the sampled neurons. The color red may be signified by 5 total spikes across the entire set of neurons, while the color green may be 10 spikes; each spike is pooled together into an overall count. This is represented by:\n\nformula_9\n\nwhere formula_10 the number of spikes, formula_11 is the number of spikes of neuron formula_12 at stimulus presentation time formula_13, and s is the stimulus.\n\nAdding a small temporal component results in the spike timing coding strategy. Here, the main quantity measured is the number of spikes that occur within a predefined window of time T. This method adds another dimension to the previous. This timing code is given by:\n\nP(/Sr.)=2 we iridex hr eg \n\nwhere formula_14 is the jth spike on the lth presentation of neuron i, formula_15 is the firing rate of neuron i at time t, and 0 to T is the start to stop times of each trial.\n\nTemporal correlation code, as the name states, adds correlations between individual spikes. This means that the time between a spike formula_16 and its preceding spike formula_17 is included. This is given by:\n\nformula_18\n\nwhere formula_19 is the time interval between a neurons spike and the one preceding it.\n\nAnother description of neural spike train data uses the Ising model borrowed from the physics of magnetic spins. Because neural spike trains effectively binarized(either on or off) at small time scales (10 to 20 ms), the Ising model is able to effectively capture the present pairwise correlations, and is given by:\n\nformula_20\n\nwhere formula_21 is the set of binary responses of neuron i, formula_22 is the external fields function, formula_23 is the pairwise couplings function, and formula_24 is the partition function\n\nIn addition to the probabilistic approach, agent-based models exist that capture the spatial dynamics of the neural system under scrutiny. One such model is hierarchical temporal memory, which is a machine learning framework that organizes visual perception problem into a hierarchy of interacting nodes (neurons). The connections between nodes on the same levels and a lower levels are termed synapses, and their interactions are subsequently learning. Synapse strengths modulate learning and are altered based on the temporal and spatial firing of nodes in response to input patterns.\n\nWhile it is possible to take the firing rates of these modeled neurons, and transform them into the probabilistic and mathematical frameworks described above, agent-based models provide the ability to observe the behavior of the entire population of modeled neurons. Researchers can circumvent the limitations implicit with lab-based recording techniques. Because this approach does rely on modeling biological systems, error arises in the assumptions made by the researcher and in the data used in parameter estimation.\n\nThe advancement in our understanding of neural decoding benefits the development of brain-machine interfaces, prosthetics and the understanding of neurological disorders such as epilepsy.\n\n"}
{"id": "8149432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8149432", "title": "Nicholas III Zorzi", "text": "Nicholas III Zorzi\n\nNicholas III (or II) Zorzi or Giorgi () was the Marquess of Bodonitsa, a member of the Zorzi family of the Republic of Venice, from 1416 to 1436, though the title was purely nominal by then. Before becoming marquess in an exchange with his nephew Nicholas II, he was the baron of Carystus (from 1410). He was a son of Guglielma Pallavicini and Marquess Nicholas I Zorzi.\n\nHe spent most of his adult career acting as a functionary of the Republic of Venice. He was an ambassador to the courts of Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor and King of Hungary, and Murad II, the Ottoman sultan. He was poisoned, perhaps by Murad's men, in 1436.\n\nHis daughter, Chiara, married Nerio II of Athens. \n"}
{"id": "33428194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33428194", "title": "Partially observable system", "text": "Partially observable system\n\nA partially observable system is one in which the entire state of the system is not fully visible to an external sensor. In a partially observable system the observer may utilise a memory system in order to add information to the observer's understanding of the system.\n\nAn example of a partially observable system would be a card game in which some of the cards are discarded into a pile face down. In this case the observer is only able to view their own cards and potentially those of the dealer. They are not able to view the face-down (used) cards, nor the cards which will be dealt at some stage in the future. A memory system can be used to remember the previously dealt cards that are now on the used pile. This adds to the total sum of knowledge that the observer can use to make decisions.\n\nIn contrast, a fully observable system would be that of chess. In chess (apart from the 'who is moving next' state, and minor subtleties such as whether a side has castled, which may not be clear) the full state of the system is observable at any point in time.\n\nPartially observable is a term used in a variety of mathematical settings, including that of Artificial Intelligence and Partially observable Markov decision processes.\n"}
{"id": "57210149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57210149", "title": "Pia de' Tolomei", "text": "Pia de' Tolomei\n\nPia de' Tolomei was an Italian noblewoman from Siena.\n\nAccording to a tradition recorded by early commentators on Dante's \"Divine Comedy\", she is to be identified with the 'Pia' mentioned in Canto V of \"Purgatory\", where Dante and Virgil meet those were penitent at the time of their sudden violent deaths – her tale follows that of Bonconte da Montefeltro. She states that she came from Siena and was killed by her husband in the Maremma:\n\nShe refers bitterly to her murderer for his disregard of his marital vows to her and briefly tells Dante her story. She asks the poet – once he has rested from his long journey – to remember her among the living and thus speed her journey through Purgatory. Dante uses the name 'la Pia' not 'Pia', underlining the familiarity between them. She also asks him to pray for her since she knows none of her family do so.\n\nThe identification of this 'Pia' with Pia de' Tolomei is now almost universally accepted, although conclusive documentary proof of this has yet to be found. Early commentators on the poem noted that she was to be identified with a woman of the Tolomei family in Siena, wife of Nello dei Pannocchieschi, lord of Castel di Pietra in Maremma, podestà of Volterra and Lucca, captain of the Guelph Taglia from 1284 and alive until at least 1322 (the year he made his will). There is also a surviving record of his second marriage, as a widower, to Margherita Aldobrandeschi, countess of Sovana and Pitigliano. They had one son, Binduccio or Bindoccio, who died aged thirteen when Orsini assassins, threw him down a well in Massa Marittima.\n\nThe surviving archives do not name Nello's first wife, but she has been identified with Pia. Nello owned Castel di Pietra in Maremma, where he is theorised to have murdered Pia in 1297, either after she found out about his affair with Aldobrandeschi or to clear the way for his second marriage. Among the early commentators Jacopo della Lana, l'Ottimo and Francesco di Bartolo assert that she may have been killed for some crime, whilst Benvenuto and the anonymous Florentine of the 14th century state it was due to her husband's jealousy. However, the Tolomei family had no daughters or nieces named Pia in Nello's time, though one male of the family did marry a woman named Pia Malavolti – the marriage did not last long (she had many lovers) and so the Tolomei decided to have Nello take her away to Maremma, where she died in misery, possibly murdered.\n\nAnother theory is that Pia was born a Malvoti and entered the Tolomei family by her marriage to Baldo d'Aldobrandino. According to this theory Pia was accused of adultery by her husband, then kidnapped by Nello and taken to Maremma, where she died.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6182706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6182706", "title": "Purgatorial society", "text": "Purgatorial society\n\nPurgatorial societies are Roman Catholic Church associations or confraternities which aim to assist souls in purgatory reach heaven. The Catholic doctrine concerning purgatory, the condition of the poor souls after death (particular judgment), the communion of saints, and the satisfactory value of our good works form the basis of these associations. In the modern Church this role is fulfilled by the Purgatorian Archconfraternity which is run under the auspices of the Transalpine Redemptorists.\n\nFor centuries, associations praying for the purgatorial souls were common. The old religious orders, e.g. the Benedictine Order, especially the Order of Cluny which inaugurated All Soul's Day, also met some of this need. Religious confraternities are likewise distinguished in their early beginnings by a special devotion to the sick and burial of the deceased (e.g. the brotherhood of Constantinople which flourished in 336, and in the West the \"Confratriæ\" or Confraternitates of the Middle Ages.) Even the medieval guilds, established primarily for secular purposes, never forgot in their constitutions, to require charity for deceased members.\n\nIn Northern Europe, the medieval associations of prayer called \"fraternitates\", \"societates\", and \"consortium\" are not as well known, although some \"Totenbünde\" (German for associations for the dead) existed (affording one of the best proofs of the existence of lively faith, especially among the Anglo-Saxons, Franks and the Germanic peoples in general). They were founded chiefly, though not solely, to assist deceased members with prayers, Mass and works of Christian charity.\n\nDucange-Favre defines a \"Confraternitas\" \"as ... a society formed between various churches and monasteries, abbeys, bishops and noblemen; later kings, princes, bishops, priests and the laity, especially ecclesiastical benefactors, were admitted\". The admission papers or the constitutions of the brotherhood usually stated in detail how many Masses, what prayers, and good works would be offered on their death for the repose of the souls of deceased members, in the place of worship or by individuals. The members were enrolled in a registry (a \"Liber Vitæ\" or 'book of life'), a development of the ancient diptychs. Upon the death of a member, a messenger was immediately dispatched with a circular (\"rotulus\") to announce the death to all the affiliated monasteries, where the name was inserted in list of the dead. These lists of the dead were also known as necrologies for constant commemoration; these lists were, like the earlier diptychs, read aloud so that special prayers might be said for the deceased mentioned, and a special commemoration made by the priest during the Eucharist.\n\nIn the West, these confraternities attained their greatest prosperity during the era from Carolingian reigns till the end of feudalism. In c. 1400 England, Wyclif issued the first public opposition to these associations. These brotherhoods may be divided into those formed of several monasteries, churches, or individual bishops, priests, abbots and monks. However, kings, princes and other laymen, especially benefactors, were admitted into these three classes, and even the frequently very numerous subordinates of a monastery.\n\nEspecially during their peak, confraternities were formed among monasteries. In the 9th century, Reichenau was affiliated with more than a hundred other monasteries and chapters in Germany, Switzerland, France and Italy, (this affiliation was chiefly due to the reform of the monastery by St. Benedict of Aniane, and is the largest brotherhood known to us. Alcuin worked in the west of the Frankish Empire, and before him St. Boniface had sought with eager zeal to establish and foster in Germany such unions and brotherhoods with England and Italy). Similarly an \"Act of Spiritual Association\" between the Abbeys of St. Denis of France and St. Remy of Reims, arranged that, within thirty days after the death of a member, the entire Office be recited by each of the surviving members, that the priests say Masses corresponding to the various offices, and that vigils be held in common on the first, seventh, and thirteenth days. At mediaeval synods, the bishops and abbots present frequently formed themselves into such brotherhoods, often extending to the cathedral chapters and monasteries, and to the kings and princes who were present at the councils (in the 8th and 9th centuries, a series of such synods took place: Attigny (762); Dingolfing (769); Frankfort (794); Salzburg (799); Freising (805); Clechyt 815:; Savionières near Toul (850). Brotherhoods were also formed at other English and Italian synods). At diocesan synods all the clergy of a diocese with their bishop formed themselves into brotherhoods, and frequently priests of still smaller districts (rural chapters) formed lesser associations of prayer to which the laity were also admitted. Individuals of every station, rank, and sex eagerly joined these associations, while numerous rich persons funded monasteries to insure a special share in their suffrage after death. English kings, bishops, abbots and Carolingian kings gave them an excellent example, as did St. Boniface and Alcuin. Even the laity of the lower classes joined the brotherhoods of St. Gall and Reichenau. The communion of spiritual goods and indulgences, granted by monasteries in the last centuries to another monastery, to benefactors and friends outside the cloister, or to other confraternities, is more than a memorial of the old brotherhoods, since in these grants (\"communicationes\") the promise of spiritual help for the deceased is one of the chief features.\n\nAlong with these brotherhoods, there appeared Confraternitaties more closely resembling the present associations. Their chief object was care for the poor souls. Among these might be included the associations devoting themselves to the spiritual welfare of the dying and their burial. Of the confraternities of the dead, only examples can be cited from the earlier centuries, but these show sufficiently clearly how widespread these must then have been. According to an inscription in the Church of Ss. Cosmas & Damian in Rome a number of priests and bishops in Rome formed themselves into an association of sodales (c. 985), each promising that on the death of a member he would immediately sing forty Masses for the repose of his soul.\n\nAt the beginning of the 11th century, the friends of Knut the Great erected in his honour a confraternity at Abbotsbury, according to the statutes of which each member should on the death of another contribute a penny for the repose of his soul. In 1220 Peter, Bishop of Sens ratified a confraternity formed by thirteen clergy who bound themselves to celebrate annually four anniversaries for the benefactors and members. In 1262 twenty-four secular priests united to practice works of mercy for the dead, read Masses for the repose of their souls, et cetera. In 1355 at Glocknitz a lay confraternity for the dead accepted members from other parishes and cared especially for the burial of the poor. Ducange-Favre speaks of a pious association, founded in 1413, expressly under the name of purgatory, in the old church of Maria Deaurata at Toulouse.\n\nThese confraternities concerned themselves almost exclusively with the souls of deceased members and benefactors, while later associations worked for the benefit of all souls. Provision for burial was first made by the 15th century \"Compagnia della Pietà\" (founded in Rome in 1448). In the newly erected church of the German cemetery, a confraternity \"in honour of the bitter Passion of Christ and of the Sorrowful Mother, to comfort and assist all the faithful souls\", was erected (1448) by the penitentiary, Johannes Goldener of Nuremberg, later titular Bishop of Accon and auxiliary bishop of Bamberg. This confraternity was, in 1579, then raised by Gregory XIII to an archconfraternity, enriched with new indulgences, and empowered to aggregate other confraternities throughout the world. Although it has undergone many changes, this confraternity still exists, joining at the end of the 19th century with a special Requiem Mass Association for assisting souls of deceased members, and it is the first purgatorial society according to the present meaning of the name.\n\nFounded in 1488, the \"Black Penitents\", who marched in procession through Rome under the gonfalone of mercy, aimed to assist, before execution, those condemned to death, and afterwards to provide for their burial, exequies, and Requiem Mass. The Confraternity of Our Lady of Suffrage (\"Santa Maria del Suffragio\") existed in Rome from 1592, expressly for the relief of poor souls. It has numerous members, and since 1615 has added other confraternities with the same object. The Archconfraternity of Death and Prayer (\"mortis et orationis\"), founded at Santa Maria dell’Orazione e Morte in Rome in 1538, to provide for the burial of the poor and abandoned, still exists\n\nAbout 1687 the rules for a special confraternity \"for the relief of the Most Needy Souls in Purgatory\" were approved in Rome under the sacred names of Jesus, Mary and Joseph. The confraternity of \"Jesus Christ on Mount Calvary and the Sorrowful Mother\" sponsored processions of the Way of the Cross in the Roman Colosseum and enjoyed special popularity (this confraternity was inaugurated September 8, 1760, among its illustrious members was St. Leonard of Port Maurice).\n\nIn 1726, local Franciscans formed the Ingolstadt Mass Association, that aimed to procure for all members the grace of a happy death and for those already deceased speedy assistance and liberation from the pains of purgatory. In 1874, it became a formal confraternity under the title of the Immaculate Conception. A highly venerated painting of the Virgin was adopted as the titular picture, and it received all the indulgences of the confraternity of the same name in Ara Coeli at Rome (these being the indulgences of the Blue Scapular). By the early 20th century it had tens of thousands of members; almost 2000 Masses were daily celebrated for the intentions of the Marian Mass Association, which aimed to particularly assist the most recently deceased members, however in the later parts of the 20th century this confraternity has faded into obscurity.\n\nAt the close of the Middle Ages, the old confraternities which were generally confined to a town or small district, gradually disappeared or preserved only a semblance of continuation. By the 19th century they were replaced by vigorous new associations, which, richly endowed with indulgences by ecclesiastical authorities, rapidly extended to the entire Church. In 1818, Pius VII endowed the \"Archconfraternity of Our Mother of Sorrows and the Poor Souls in Purgatory\", housed in Santa Maria in Trastevere, with rich indulgences.\n\nThe largest of the later confraternities is the \"Archconfraternity for the Relief of the Poor Souls in Purgatory under the title of the Assumption of Mary\" (founded 1841) in the Redemptorist church of Santa Maria in Monterone at Rome. It expanded rapidly to England and North America, and was endowed with indulgences in 1841-63. Priests empowered to receive the faithful into the confraternity enjoy various other faculties. This confraternity is especially adapted for rapid expansion, because in 1860 it was authorized to aggregate every confraternity of whatever name and object and to communicate to them its graces and privileges, provide they added to their original titles \"and for the relief of the Poor Souls in Purgatory\"; they must not, however, be already aggregated to another archconfraternity, nor have been endowed with indulgences on their own account. The Redemptorist Fathers still conduct this archconfraternity which is now known as the \"Purgatorian Archconfraternity\".\n\nAt Nîmes, a confraternity similar to that of Our Lady of Suffrage was established in 1857, received the faculty of aggregating other confraternities in the Diocese in 1858, and in 1873 received the same right for the world. In addition to the indulgences of the Roman confraternity, that of Nîmes has received others: the recital of the Rosary of the Dead was approved especially for its members by Pius IX in 1873. In accordance with its ancient traditions, the Benedictine order formed a twofold Confraternity of the Poor Souls at Lambach, Austria. In 1877 the \"Archconfraternity of the Perpetual Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament\" under the protection of St. Benedict for the Poor Souls in Purgatory was erected with the right to aggregate other confraternities of the same name and object in Austrohungaria. In 1893, this confraternity was erected in the abbey church of St. John the Baptist in Collegeville, Minnesota; it shares in all the indulgences of the Lambach confraternity, and possesses, as the archconfraternity of North America, the faculty of aggregating all confraternities of the same name and communicating to them its indulgences. Finally, by 1910, Pius X granted to Lambach Confraternity the right to aggregation for the whole world. There was also founded, in 1878, in the same abbey church of Lambach a Priest's Association under the Protection of St. Benedict for the Relief of the Poor Souls in Purgatory. This was approved and recommended by the diocesan bishop, Franz Joseph Rudigier. Many other bishops, especially in North America, recommended it to their clergy. The direction of the association was placed in the hands of the general director of the Archconfraternity of Lambach, who entered the members in a special register. The official organ for both was the \"Benediktusstimmen\"\" published by the Abbey of Emaus in Prague.\n\nA work of atonement to obtain liberation for the most needy and abandoned souls in purgatory by the celebration of many Masses was founded in 1884 in the parish of La Chapelle-Montligeon, France. Until 1893 this association was joined archconfraternity of S. Maria in Monterone, but by 1893 became an honorary archconfraternity and \"prima-primaria\". This association had many million members and was blessed by the pope. To become a member, one must have one's name enrolled, and contribute five centimes annually for the objects of the association; persons who make a single contribution of 5 francs had a permanent share in all the Masses celebrated for the deceased. Seven Masses are said weekly for the souls in purgatory, three monthly for deceased priests, and in addition many thousand Masses are offered annually.\n\nThe Order of Cluny have always been conspicuous for their devotion to the poor souls. Since 998, St. Odilio, Abbott of Cluny, had All Soul's Day celebrated by his monks on 2 November, which day was gradually devoted by the entire church to the relief of the poor souls. In memory of this fact, a new archconfraternity was erected at Cluny in the parish of Our Lady. By Brief of 25 May 1898, Leo XIII granted this \"Archconfraternity of Prayer for the Poor Souls in Purgatory\" the indulgences of the old Roman Confraternity of Prayer and Death (see above), and authorized it to aggregate similar confraternities throughout France and its colonies. The \"Associazione del Scaro Cuore di Gesû in suffrago della Anime del Pugatorio\" was canonically established in Rome (Lungotevere, Prati), in a church of the Sacred Heart, and granted indulgences and privileges by Leo XIII (1903-5). The director of this association, which includes non-residents of Rome in its membership, edits \"Rivista mensile dell' Associazione\".\n\nIndulgences of the confraternities are ever applicable to the souls in purgatory, and the privileges of the altar for churches and for priests, who are members, may be used in favour of dead members or for all poor souls. The formation of the \"Catholic League for Constant Intercession for the Poor Souls in Purgatory\" was proposed by certain pious citizens of Rome, approved by Leo XIII in the last years of his reign, and enriched with indulgences. The only requisite for membership is to recite thrice daily the prayer, \"Requiem æternam dona eis Domine et lux perpetua luceat eis. Requiescant in pace. Amen\", thereby gaining once daily an indulgence of 200 days.\n"}
{"id": "18949308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949308", "title": "Shamordino Convent", "text": "Shamordino Convent\n\nThe Convent of St. Ambrose and Our Lady of Kazan (Казанская Амвросиевская ставропигиальная женская пустынь) is a stauropegial Russian Orthodox convent in the village of Shamordino, Kaluga Oblast, Russia. It is located on the Seryona River, from Optina Monastery.\n\nThe convent was founded near the village of Shamordino in 1884 by Sofia Bolotova, a local noblewoman, with the blessing of Saint Ambrose of Optina. The monastery's churches were designed by Sergey Sherwood and Roman Klein in a peculiar brick version of the Russian Revival. By 1918, some 800 women lived in the convent and its sketes, making it one of the largest monastic establishments in Central Russia. In 1910, after leaving Yasnaya Polyana, Leo Tolstoy planned to go to Shamordino, where his sister Maria was living as a nun. The convent was shut down by the Soviets from 1923 until 1990.\n\nThe sisterhood of Shamordino Convent were imprisoned in 1923 at the closure of the convent by the Soviet authorities, first in Solovki prison camp, then the sisterhood was broken up and dispersed and, with the exception of one striking account by American prisoner John H. Noble that emerged following his release some 30 years after the nuns' disappearance, it is generally unknown, apart from scant references, what became of any other members of the sisterhood thereafter.\n\nAccount of I.M. Andreyevsky, Professor, Psychiatrist, Author, and Political Prisoner\n\nThe account in English of what was the immediate fate of the nuns was provided by I.M. Andreyevsky () in \"The Orthodox Word\", a publication of monk Seraphim Rose and the Saint Herman of Alaska Monastery, which at the time of publication were under the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia. The following points highlight their imprisonment: Under orders from their spiritual father, also imprisoned at Solovki, they were not to do any work for the Soviet regime because the system was actively dismantling the Russian Orthodox Church. As a result of their steadfast adherence to the vow of obedience they had all taken upon their tonsure, they refused to do so much as a single stitch with a needle in service to the Soviets. They were threatened, beaten, tortured, starved, all to no avail. Finally, as a last resort, they were divided up and sent to various locations of forced labour and imprisonment throughout the Soviet Union in the hopes that total isolation would break their will and that they should submit to their captors. Other than these main details, little else was known of them until some 30 or 35 years later when an American prisoner was released and published his account (cited below) of his ten years of imprisonment in the Soviet Gulags.\n\nAccount of John H. Noble, American Political Prisoner\n\nThis account takes place at the arctic Vorkutlag prison camp nearing the end of the Stalin Era. The main points of John Noble's account are that they show that the wills of at least these three surviving nuns were unbroken, though they had by now been undergoing afflictions and punishments for some 25 years or so. They still refused to do any work whatsoever or under any circumstances. Moreover, they displayed astounding courage and strength: when subjected to torture, namely being placed in straitjackets that were extremely tight so as to cut off circulation, though writhing in agony they simply moaned quietly until they passed out. This was done repeatedly bringing them near to the point of death with no effect on breaking their will. After a respite, this torture was then increased in its torments by dousing the cotton jackets in water so that as it dried it tightened yet more. Again, racked with agony, yet to no avail. They endured all this without complaint or cursing their torturers but quietly and with a meek disposition. The camp commander, in a desperate bid to either get them to comply or die, then instructed them to be put outside in the snow on a hilltop in the winds of winter, and force them to stand there motionless for the full 8-hour workday and watch the other women prisoners work. Standing in prayer, they faithfully complied with this in the full sight of the other prisoners labouring in the fields. At the end of the day they returned, relaxed and warm, without any bodily damage. On the second day, the guards were ordered to put them out there again but stripped of hats and mittens. Though the workers were labouring and well-dressed they were complaining bitterly of the intense cold. The third day the same scene was repeated except that they had been divested of their scarves as well. On the fourth day, the guards were afraid and told the commandant that they refused to have any more to do with afflicting them. Even the commandant, being somewhat superstitious, was afraid at this point and relented. After that point, at least until John H. Noble's release, they were allowed to stay in a room by themselves, make habits for themselves, and were taken off punishment rations, being left in peace to observe their religious rule of prayer and communal life. This is the last that is known of what became of the \"Nuns of Shamordino\".\n\nWhile they have not been officially glorified (recognized as saints), they are commemorated on November 12 on the Julian Calendar by the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia (ROCOR) which is in union with the Moscow Patriarchate. It should be noted that in the Orthodox Church there is no need for official declarations of sainthood as there is in Roman Catholicism where the process of canonization is different (see glorification). Many Eastern Orthodox saints have never been canonized in the official sense as practiced by the Vatican. Saint John Chrysostom is such an example where the Orthodox Church has never felt the need to issue an official document declaring him a \"canonical saint\" as such. Hence, here also, the veneration of many \"unofficial\" Orthodox confessors and martyrs who courageously refused to bend to the oppression of the Soviet State is exemplified and encouraged by the iconography that has arisen.\n\n"}
{"id": "3073185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3073185", "title": "Shenzhou 10", "text": "Shenzhou 10\n\nShenzhou 10 () was a manned spaceflight of China's Shenzhou program that was launched on 11 June 2013. It was China's fifth manned space mission. The mission had a crew of three astronauts: Nie Haisheng, who was mission commander and previously flew on Shenzhou 6; Zhang Xiaoguang, a former PLAAF squadron commander who conducted the rendezvous and docking; and Wang Yaping, the second Chinese female astronaut. The Shenzhou spacecraft docked with the Tiangong-1 trial space laboratory module on 13 June, and the astronauts performed physical, technological, and scientific experiments while on board. Shenzhou 10 was the final mission to Tiangong 1 in this portion of the Tiangong program. On 26 June 2013, after a series of successful docking tests, Shenzhou 10 returned to Earth.\n\nPrior to the reboost of Tiangong 1 on 30 August 2012, it was projected that a launch window would open between late November and December 2012, when Tiangong-1's orbit had decayed to the level of a Shenzhou's standard orbit. With the reboost, it was expected that the orbital decay would bring Tiangong-1 within reach again in late January, so the Shenzhou 10 mission was anticipated for late January or February 2013. At the 2012 Communist Party of China Leadership Congress, a space official stated that Shenzhou 10 was planned for the period between June and August 2013.\n\nIt is the fifth manned mission of the Shenzhou programme, coming ten years after the original, Shenzhou 5.\n\nFrom 2012 November onwards, a feed of information ensued, including a desire for the crew to have a female member and that the actual launch date would be at the beginning of the June–August period. Knowledge of the conditions that China sets for launch windows for its piloted spacecraft allowed the likely launch date to be calculated as somewhere in the period between 7–13 June.\n\nXinhua published an item from the Beijing Times that summed up the aims of the mission, and included the information that Wang Yaping was the only female trainee in the group of astronaut candidates. Wang Yaping was announced to be the one of the crew in April 2013, the only member of the crew revealed until June, when the rest of the crew was revealed. The crew of Shenzhou 10 previously served as the backup crew to Shenzhou 9. With Nie Haisheng's elevation to General, this marked the first instance that China would launch a flag officer into space, after they had become a general officer.\n\nShenzhou 10 was launched on 11 June 2013, at 09:38 UTC (17:38 local time). A Long March 2F carrier rocket was used to perform the launch, flying from Pad 1 of the South Launch Site at the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Centre in Inner Mongolia. The spacecraft successfully reached low Earth orbit before the rocket detached. With a duration of 15 days, Shenzhou 10 was China's longest human spaceflight mission to date, surpassing the previous record holder, Shenzhou 9 by two days. CPC General Secretary, Chinese President Xi Jinping was present for both the departure ceremony, and the launch itself.\n\nThe spacecraft docked with Tiangong 1 at 05:11 UTC on 13 June. The crew opened the hatch three hours later and entered the laboratory module..\n\nShenzhou 10 returned to Earth on Wednesday, June 26, 2013 00:07 UTC. Total mission duration was 14 days 14 hours and 29 minutes.\n\nOnce docked at Tiangong 1, the three crew members conducted space medicine and technological experiments and other scientific endeavours. Nie Haisheng was mission commander, overseeing docking procedures, and pilot Zhang Xiaoguang was in charge of rendezvous and docking. Wang Yaping conducted the scientific experiments and taught a physics lesson to Chinese students by live television broadcast. On 23 June Shenzhou 10 undocked from the station and performed a manual re-docking.\n\nWhile in orbit, Wang Yaping was one of only two women in space on 16 June 2013, the 50th anniversary of Vostok 6, the first space flight by a woman, Valentina Tereshkova. The other woman in space that day was Karen Nyberg on board the International Space Station\n\nOne widely reported event of this mission was the space lecture by Wang Yaping. On 20 June around 10:00 two physics teachers started the lesson in the Beijing classroom. A few minutes later the crew was visible to 60 million Chinese students. They saw Wang Yaping conduct five experiments:\n\n"}
{"id": "56034911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56034911", "title": "Slow fashion", "text": "Slow fashion\n\nSlow fashion, the alternative to fast fashion and part of what has been called the \"slow movement\", advocates for principles similar to the principles of slow food, such as good quality, clean environment, and fairness for both consumers and producers.\n\nThe expression \"slow fashion\" was coined in a 2007 article by Kate Fletcher published in \"The Ecologist\", where she compared the eco/sustainable/ethical fashion industry to the slow food movement:\n\nSlow Food Movement advocates the following principles:\n\n\nSome elements of the slow fashion philosophy include: buying vintage clothes, redesigning old clothes, shopping from smaller producers, making clothes and accessories at home and buying garments that last longer. New ideas and product innovations are constantly redefining slow fashion, so using a static, single definition would ignore the evolving nature of the concept.\n\nUnlike fast fashion, \"slow fashion\" production ensures quality manufacturing to lengthen the life of the garment. Slow fashion may be considered a revolt or action against the fast fashion movement. Developing a garment with a cultural and emotional connection is also pertinent to the purpose behind slow fashion: consumers will keep an article of clothing longer than one season if they feel emotionally or culturally connected to the article of clothing. A taxation is in early stages of development in order to deter fashion companies from purchasing or producing materials that are not made with recycled, organic, or re-purposed materials. Utilizing materials already made will reduce the industry's carbon footprint.\n\nThere is also an important movement towards companies being more transparent. The need for companies to show their manufacturing processes boosts the companies reputation and can aid buyers to making more conscious decisions. In accordance with the slow movement there is a trend towards more conscious buying as well as companies attracting new consumers with their eco-friendly processes. Consumers still need to do their research into companies as some of them use the idea of eco-fashion without fully backing it up.\n\nAlthough price is sometimes a deterrent for purchasing slow fashion items, in the long run, one piece of well designed and well produced clothing will outlive five cheap pieces of clothing. Generally, the more a person spends on their clothes, the more value the item will hold (see empathic design below). It makes the piece more special and therefore will make the person feel better about what they wear. Slow fashion clothing is made up of high quality materials usually with timeless designs that can be worn year round and never go out of style. Slow fashion garments should also consider their end of lifecycle. Generally if it is well made and with natural fibers it can be broken down easier. One current problem with the fast fashion industry is the amount of waste generated into landfills.\n\nThe slow fashion movement has been studied by Kate Fletcher, a researcher, author, consultant, and design activist, and the author of \"Sustainable Fashion and Textiles\". Her writings integrated design thinking with fashion and textiles as a necessary way to move towards a more sustainable fashion industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "57295938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57295938", "title": "The Delinquent Season", "text": "The Delinquent Season\n\nThe Delinquent Season is a 2017 Irish film written and directed by Mark O'Rowe. It follows the story of two married couples who begin to experience difficulties in their relationships.\n\nYvonne is preparing to go out to meet someone, a babysitter arrives and Yvonne leaves. Yvonne is waiting in a restaurant alone for someone, a man arrives, we do not see him, only hearing him greet her. \n\nJim (Cillian Murphy) and his wife Danielle (Eva Birthistle) are hosting a dinner party one evening at which Danielle's best friend Yvonne (Catherine Walker) and her husband Chris (Andrew Scott) are guests. A disagreement erupts between Yvonne and Chris, Chris taking issue with the way Yvonne discussed her seeing of him spending time with their daughters, at which Chris was angered by the implications of this and thus the assumption Danielle and Jim would make of him as a father. \n\nOne day, Jim, locked out of his house after collecting his two children from school and his wife Danielle at work, has nowhere to go, after speaking to Danielle on the phone she suggests he visits Yvonne to collect the spare key, Jim is reluctant and believes it will be awkward due to the argument at the dinner party, he goes anyway. Jim and Yvonne chat over coffee whilst the children play together in the garden, they begin to get to know each other. During this time, Jim also learns that Chris's recent outbursts are due to mood swings he is experiencing as the result of an undisclosed brain-related illness, Chris has not yet told his children or Yvonne and swears Jim to secrecy. \n\nJim and his children are sat having lunch one day in a restaurant. As the waitress Orla approaches to collect the plates, Jim queries as to whether one of the meals was supposed to include fries as they hadn't accompanied the meal, a dispute between Jim and Orla takes place and Orla swears at Jim, they leave the restaurant. \n\nOne night, after another argument at home with Chris which results in a physical attack, Yvonne and her children take shelter at Jim and Yvonne's house overnight. The next morning, with Jim working from home and Yvonne at work and the children all at school, Jim and Yvonne talk about marriage. Yvonne confesses her feelings for Jim and they have sex in his marital bed, they soon embark on a fully fledged sexual affair, having sex regularly in a hotel room and latterly on a nearby beach where they are caught.\n\nYvonne having learnt both of Chris's illness and the fact it is terminal, is angry with Jim and also rejects the prospect of pursuing a relationship with hime despite her early encouragement in the affair that he leaves Danielle and she leave Chris. \n\nOne afternoon Jim falls asleep and is late picking his children up from school, he lies to the Headteacher as to why this was, however, he is caught out later when Danielle asks why he was late and he fails to use the same excuse he did in front of his children and his children say he is lying. This arouses Danielles suspicion and she asks for the passcode to Jim's phone, he questions her intentions and refuses to give her the passcode, he later confesses to having an affair but refuses to say who with and is forced to leave the marital home. \n\nDanielle is later chatting to Yvonne in the kitchen, Danielle is telling Yvonne about Jim's affair none the wiser that it is Yvonne Jim has been cheating with. \n\nOne night, Jim turns up on Yvonne's doorstep, he wants to know if Yvonne will return to him upon Chris's death and he confesses his love for her, Yvonne is annoyed at this and that Jim knew Chris was ill when he slept with her. \n\nJim goes to a bar and is drinking alone, here he bumps into Orla, the waitress. They share back and forth in regards to their earlier disagreement over the meal and the philosophy of the customer always being right. Orla asks Jim to stay for a drink with her, he does. Jim wakes up next to Orla in her bed the following morning. He is woken by his phone ringing, it is Danielle informing him of the death of Chris. As Jim is dressing to leave, Orla asks to see Jim again, he is unsure and questions whether it was not just a one night stand, Orla is unimpressed and verbally abuses Jim and orders him to leave. \n\nAt Chris's funeral, Danielle is there with her new partner, Jim's children talk positively about him and this upsets Jim as he fears he has lost his children. Jim then attacks Danielles new partner who gets the upper hand and Jim ends up in hospital, in the waiting room alone, he breaks down emotionally. \n\nSome time later, Yvonne is waiting in a restaurant alone, as she was at the beginning of the film, it is revealed that the person she was waiting for earlier was Jim. They both catch-up and get along, Yvonne suggests she and Jim can rekindle their relationship, Jim is now in a relationship, it is too late. \n\nYvonne returns home, distraught, she cries at her front door. \n\nJim returns home to Orla the waitress, who are both now in a relationship and living together, they row over where Jim has been but he is honest with her. Moments later, Jim is sat alone, Orla comforts him and they chat about the restaurant whilst cuddling on the sofa, Jim assures Orla he felt nothing for Yvonne upon seeing her again. \n\nA song plays over the radio, they both embrace and slow dance.\n\n\"The Delinquent Season\" was filmed in Dublin.\n\nHarry Guerin gave the film four stars remarking 'If this film reminds us of anything, it's not to let go lightly.' \n\n\"The Irish Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> Tara Brady was much more negative, giving it two stars out of five, saying \"The denizens of \"The Delinquent Season\" are all ghastly and yet – despite valiant efforts from a talented ensemble cast – not quite horrid enough to be interesting or engaging. [...] O’Rowe’s stylised language – an often potent dialect that sets observational banter to Mametian rhythms – sounds off-key on a big screen.\"\n"}
{"id": "7855941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7855941", "title": "Tissue bank", "text": "Tissue bank\n\nA tissue bank is an establishment that collects and recovers human cadaver tissue for the purposes of medical research, education, and allograft transplantation. A tissue bank may also refer to a location where biomedical tissue is stored under cryogenic conditions, and is generally used in a more clinical sense.\n\nThe United States Navy Tissue Bank is generally accepted as the first full tissue banking service of its kind in the world although it is not the largest or only tissue bank today.\n\nMost medical schools need donated bodies for teaching students about the anatomy and physiology of the body, as well as how to perform medical procedures. There are no upper age limits for donating your body to science. Each school has different policies and procedures for donated bodies.\n\nAct 368 of the Public Acts of Michigan 1978, Article 10, Part 101, authorizes an individual to will their body to a medical institution. Medical institutions will only accept a full body, meaning the body cannot be used for organ donation prior to body donation because it would leave the body incomplete. At the time of death, the institution where the body is being donated to should be contacted as soon as possible. The decision to accept or reject the donation will be made at that time. A body could be turned away if it has already begun decomposing, the person was extremely obese, recent surgery was conducted, thoughts of possible contagious disease or severe trauma to the body occurred. There is no an age restriction as long as the donor or the donor’s legal representative gives consent. It is very uncommon for a school to turn down a body due to having an adequate supply; they are always in high demand. At Michigan State University people can choose whether to donate their body for three years or without any restriction as to the length of time. A body donated for an indefinite period can be used for educational purposes as long as it remains an effective teaching tool. At the end of that time the body is cremated and the family's instructions for disposition are followed.\n\nIn Brazil, the Brazilian Legal Code allows teaching to be done on cadavers that are unclaimed from the Institutes of Forensic Medicine. This means that if a family does not claim a body, it gets put to use for teaching purposes. The number of cadavers available for teaching has declined in Brazil due to an increasing number of families choosing to claim their relative's body. Many Brazilians are unaware that a body can be voluntarily donated to a university after death, which also contributes to the shortage of cadavers for teaching. In 2008, a program officially started at The Federal University of Health Sciences of Porto Algre making body donation official and also creating terms that the donor must agree to so that the program does not come under legal trouble. This provides the university background information about the donor as well, which may be beneficial to research or use of the body.\n\nIn the Netherlands, organ donation and whole body donation are regulated by two separate acts and have distinct differences. The Organ Donation Act regulates organ donation in the Netherlands during life and after death. The Burial and Cremation Act regulates whole body donation. This document states that body donation to science is a third party option of body disposal. Organ donors are actively recruited by the Dutch government whereas body donors are not. A contract must be signed by both the institute and the donor to donate one's body. After organ donation, the body is returned to the family for burial or cremation. Whole body donation uses the entire body and no part of it is returned to the family. Any remains from scientific study are cremated.\n\nThere are different types of body donations that involve different organs. Organ donation and whole body donation are not one and the same. The body needs to be complete in order for many medical institutions to accept the bodies. This means that specific organ donation may not occur before a whole body is donated.\n\nBlood, bone marrow, eye, kidney, liver, lung, pancreas, and tissue are acceptable organs for donation.\n\nA Willed Body Donation program is a program that allows people to donate their bodies after death. Most U.S. tissue bank companies get their supply of cadaver tissue through Willed Body Donation programs run by the tissue bank itself.\n\nThese programs then charge their customers (mainly medical instrument companies) for services associated with preparation of the cadaver tissue (\"e.g.\" transportation, refrigeration, and recovery) rather than charging money for the donated tissue itself, though it is not illegal to do so for non-transplant and or research organizations per the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act as it is for transplant and/or therapy.\n\nThe American Association of Tissue Banks (AATB) is the most recognized accrediting body for American tissue banks.\n\nAt the first European Conference on Problems of Tissue Banking and Clinical Applications, held in Berlin on Oct 24-26, 1991, many European countries joined together to adapt common practices regarding tissue banks and the European Association of Tissue Banks was created.\n\nBody brokers are firms or individuals that buy and sell cadaver human body parts for use of research. Trade in these body parts is performed in a manner similar to other raw materials, though many brokers insist they charge fees as opposed to selling body parts.\n\nHouse Bill 4341 was passed in 2014 regarding permission given to all schools in Michigan to receive cadavers for the promotion of education. The medical school must have a mortuary license. The law protects the bodies to be used from anything other than learning purposes. The school has to be credited by the Department of Community Health in order to receive a body and to be able to practice on it. There is a limit to the number of cadavers they have at one point in time at the house.\n\nAt the University of Washington, a body may be refused if there are signs of decomposition, severe trauma, infectious diseases, significant bedsores, obesity, jaundice, recent surgeries, or autopsied remains. The University of Washington’s School of Medicine has a continuing need for donated bodies to the Willed Body Program and accepts bodies of ages 18 years and older anywhere and only in the state of Washington. The School of Medicine is to be notified immediately at time of death. If the potential donor family does not call at this time, the donation is cancelled. The family is to be informed of any and all decisions made regarding body donation. When the study is complete, the cremated remains are either buried at the university community plot or are sent to the person on the Donor Registration Form, both at no cost.\n\nFamilies will not receive compensation for the body donation. The school will typically pay for cremation costs, transportation costs and embalming. The family takes over cost responsibility of embalming if they request a funeral and the funeral home provides this service. The family is also responsible in making alternate arrangements for final disposition if the donation cannot be completed for reasons previously stated.\n\nAnatomy is taught in the first year of most medical schools and serves as the foundation for many other courses during a medical student’s education. The donated bodies are used in anatomy labs as a learning tool giving students hands on experience. According to research done, the use of real bodies as opposed to computer stimulation has produced a better understanding of anatomy in students. The research, appearing in Anatomical Sciences Education, compared the use of cadaver based learning and computer based learning of human body structures. This research showed higher scores on anatomy exams for students using cadavers for learning opposed to computer stimulation. Uses for the bodies include teaching other health fields as well, such as nursing or physical therapy. Current physicians use bodies to study new surgical procedures before practicing on live patients. The cadaver should be donated to the nearest medical school and not cross state lines. Faculty, staff, and students of health professions are authorized to use the anatomy lab and outsiders are restricted access. Outside of the medical field, bodies can be used for research to increase safety in military, law enforcement, sports and transportation crashes.\n\nThere is no common model used between organizations to determine whether utilization of cadaveric images is ethical or not. There is no agreement made with the donor about images being taken or used for any purposes after death so current practice is that the choice is up to the organization in possession of the cadaver. If images of a cadaver were to end up in the wrong hands, there are no laws or guidelines in place as to what can be done with the images. Technology makes up a large portion of information transfer so it is likely that this could happen through hacking or misappropriation of images.\n\nIn one study published by \"Clinical Anatomy\", doctors unanimously agreed that willed body donations are important for teaching and learning purposes, but only 52% of male doctors consented to donation of their own body and only 29% of female doctors consented. This study found that the actions of doctors while in anatomy labs and other areas where they have been exposed to a cadaver have led them to avoid donating their own bodies.\n\nWilled body donation programs do not always run smoothly, as is evident in the 2004 case against UCLA for distribution of body parts to other companies under the pretense that they had already been tested for infectious diseases. Specifically, Johnson & Johnson was purchasing body parts from the director of UCLA’s willed body program at a steep price. The representative from Johnson & Johnson claimed that he had no reason to suspect that the body parts were distributed to him illegally.\n"}
{"id": "997511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=997511", "title": "Vigilance committee", "text": "Vigilance committee\n\nA vigilance committee was a group formed of private citizens to administer law and order where they considered governmental structures to be inadequate. The term is commonly associated with the frontier areas of the American West in the mid-19th century, where groups attacked cattle rustlers and gangs, and people at gold mining claims. As non-state organizations no functioning checks existed to protect against excessive force or safeguard due process from the committees. In the years prior to the Civil War, some committees worked to free slaves and transport them to freedom.\n\nIn the western United States, both before and after the Civil War, the primary purpose of these committees was to maintain law and order and administer summary justice where governmental law enforcement was inadequate. In the newly settled areas, vigilance committees provided security, and mediated land disputes. In ranching areas, they ruled on ranch boundaries, registered brands, and protected cattle and horses. In the mining districts, they protected claims, settled claim disputes, and attempted to protect miners and other residents. In California, some residents formed vigilance committees to take control from officials whom they considered to be corrupt. This took place during the trial of Charles Cora (Husband of Belle Cora) and James Casey in San Francisco during 1856.\n\nVigilance committees were generally abandoned when the conditions favoring their creation ceased to exist. In the west, as governmental jurisdiction increased to the degree that courts could dispense justice, residents abandoned the committees.\n\nVigilance committees, by their nature, lacked an outside set of \"checks and balances\", leaving them open for excesses and abuse.\n\nIn the West, the speed of the vigilance committees and lack of safeguards sometimes led to the innocent being hanged or to their just disappearing. A few committees were taken over by fraudulent individuals seeking profit or political office.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17198736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17198736", "title": "Visual prosthesis", "text": "Visual prosthesis\n\nA visual prosthesis, often referred to as a bionic eye, is an experimental visual device intended to restore functional vision in those suffering from partial or total blindness. Many devices have been developed, usually modeled on the cochlear implant or bionic ear devices, a type of neural prosthesis in use since the mid-1980s. The idea of using electrical current (e.g., electrically stimulating the retina or the visual cortex) to provide sight dates back to the 18th century, discussed by Benjamin Franklin, Tiberius Cavallo, and Charles LeRoy.\n\nThe ability to give sight to a blind person via a bionic eye depends on the circumstances surrounding the loss of sight. For retinal prostheses, which are the most prevalent visual prosthetic under development (due to ease of access to the retina among other considerations), patients with vision loss due to degeneration of photoreceptors (retinitis pigmentosa, choroideremia, geographic atrophy macular degeneration) are the best candidate for treatment. Candidates for visual prosthetic implants find the procedure most successful if the optic nerve was developed prior to the onset of blindness. Persons born with blindness may lack a fully developed optical nerve, which typically develops prior to birth, though neuroplasticity makes it possible for the nerve, and sight, to develop after implantation.\n\nVisual prosthetics are being developed as a potentially valuable aid for individuals with visual degradation. Argus II, co-developed at the University of Southern California (USC) Eye Institute and manufactured by Second Sight Medical Products Inc., is now the only such device to have received marketing approval (CE Mark in Europe in 2011). Most other efforts remain investigational; the Retina Implant AG's Alpha IMS won a CE Mark July 2013 and is a significant improvement in resolution. It is not, however, FDA-approved in the US.\n\nMark Humayun, who joined the faculty of the Keck School of Medicine of USC Department of Ophthalmology in 2001; Eugene Dejuan, now at the University of California San Francisco; engineer Howard D. Phillips; bio-electronics engineer Wentai Liu, now at University of California Los Angeles; and Robert Greenberg, now of Second Sight, were the original inventors of the active epi-retinal prosthesis and demonstrated proof of principle in acute patient investigations at Johns Hopkins University in the early 1990s. In the late 1990s the company Second Sight was formed by Greenberg along with medical device entrepreneur, Alfred E. Mann, Their first-generation implant had 16 electrodes and was implanted in six subjects by Humayun at University of Southern California between 2002 and 2004. In 2007, the company began a trial of its second-generation, 60-electrode implant, dubbed the Argus II, in the US and in Europe. In total 30 subjects participated in the studies spanning 10 sites in four countries. In the spring of 2011, based on the results of the clinical study which were published in 2012, Argus II was approved for commercial use in Europe, and Second Sight launched the product later that same year. The Argus II was approved by the United States FDA on 14 February 2013. Three US government funding agencies (National Eye Institute, Department of Energy, and National Science Foundation) have supported the work at Second Sight, USC, UCSC, Caltech, and other research labs.\n\nDesigned by Claude Veraart at the University of Louvain, this is a spiral cuff electrode around the optic nerve at the back of the eye. It is connected to a stimulator implanted in a small depression in the skull. The stimulator receives signals from an externally worn camera, which are translated into electrical signals that stimulate the optic nerve directly.\n\nAlthough not truly an active prosthesis, an Implantable Miniature Telescope is one type of visual implant that has met with some success in the treatment of end-stage age-related macular degeneration. This type of device is implanted in the eye's posterior chamber and works by increasing (by about three times) the size of the image projected onto the retina in order to overcome a centrally located scotoma or blind spot.\n\nCreated by VisionCare Ophthalmic Technologies in conjunction with the CentraSight Treatment Program, the telescope is about the size of a pea and is implanted behind the iris of one eye. Images are projected onto healthy areas of the central retina, outside the degenerated macula, and is enlarged to reduce the effect the blind spot has on central vision. 2.2x or 2.7x magnification strengths make it possible to see or discern the central vision object of interest while the other eye is used for peripheral vision because the eye that has the implant will have limited peripheral vision as a side effect. Unlike a telescope which would be hand-held, the implant moves with the eye which is the main advantage. Patients using the device may however still need glasses for optimal vision and for close work. Before surgery, patients should first try out a hand-held telescope to see if they would benefit from image enlargement. One of the main drawbacks is that it cannot be used for patients who have had cataract surgery as the intraocular lens would obstruct insertion of the telescope. It also requires a large incision in the cornea to insert.\n\nA Southern German team led by the University Eye Hospital in Tübingen, was formed in 1995 by Eberhart Zrenner to develop a subretinal prosthesis.\nThe chip is located behind the retina and utilizes microphotodiode arrays (MPDA) which collect incident light and transform it into electrical current stimulating the retinal ganglion cells.\nAs natural photoreceptors are far more efficient than photodiodes, visible light is not powerful enough to stimulate the MPDA. Therefore, an external power supply is used to enhance the stimulation current. The German team commenced in vivo experiments in 2000, when evoked cortical potentials were measured from Yucatán micropigs and rabbits. At 14 months post implantation, the implant and retina surrounding it were examined and there were no noticeable changes to anatomical integrity. The implants were successful in producing evoked cortical potentials in half of the animals tested. The thresholds identified in this study were similar to those required in epiretinal stimulation.\nLater reports from this group concern the results of a clinical pilot study on 11 participants suffering from RP. Some blind patients were able to read letters, recognize unknown objects, localize a plate, a cup and cutlery. Two of the patients were found to make microsaccades similar to those of healthy control participants, and the properties of the eye movements depended on the stimuli that the patients were viewing--suggesting that eye movements might be useful measures for evaluating vision restored by implants. \nIn 2010 a new multicenter Study has been started using a fully implantable device with 1500 Electrodes Alpha IMS (produced by Retina Implant AG, Reutlingen, Germany), 10 patients included so far; first results have been presented at ARVO 2011. The first UK implantations took place in March 2012 and were led by Robert MacLaren at the University of Oxford and Tim Jackson at King's College Hospital in London. David Wong also implanted the Tübingen device in a patient in Hong Kong. In all cases previously blind patients had some degree of sight restored.\n\nJoseph Rizzo and John Wyatt at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary and MIT began researching the feasibility of a retinal prosthesis in 1989, and performed a number of proof-of-concept epiretinal stimulation trials on blind volunteers between 1998 and 2000. They have since developed a subretinal stimulator, an array of electrodes, that is placed beneath the retina in the subretinal space and receives image signals beamed from a camera mounted on a pair of glasses. The stimulator chip decodes the picture information beamed from the camera and stimulates retinal ganglion cells accordingly. Their second generation prosthesis collects data and sends it to the implant through RF fields from transmitter coils that are mounted on the glasses. A secondary receiver coil is sutured around the iris.\n\nThe brothers Alan Chow and Vincent Chow have developed a microchip containing 3500 photodiodes, which detect light and convert it into electrical impulses, which stimulate healthy retinal ganglion cells. The ASR requires no externally worn devices.\n\nThe original Optobionics Corp. stopped operations, but Chow acquired the Optobionics name, the ASR implants and plans to reorganize a new company under the same name. The ASR microchip is a 2mm in diameter silicon chip (same concept as computer chips) containing ~5,000 microscopic solar cells called \"microphotodiodes\" that each have their own stimulating electrode.\n\nDaniel Palanker and his group at Stanford University have developed a photovoltaic retinal prosthesis that includes a subretinal photodiode array and an infrared image projection system mounted on video goggles. Images captured by video camera are processed in a pocket PC and displayed on video goggles using pulsed near-infrared (IR, 880–915 nm) light. These images are projected onto the retina via natural eye optics, and photodiodes in the subretinal implant convert light into pulsed bi-phasic electric current in each pixel. Electric current flowing through the tissue between the active and return electrode in each pixel stimulates the nearby inner retinal neurons, primarily the bipolar cells, which transmit excitatory responses to the retinal ganglion cells. \nThis technology is being commercialized by Pixium Vision (PRIMA), and is being evaluated in a clinical trial (2018).\nFollowing this proof of concept, Palanker group is focusing now on developing pixels smaller than 50μm using 3-D electrodes and utilizing the effect of retinal migration into voids in the subretinal implant.\n\nAn Australian team led by Professor Anthony Burkitt is developing two retinal prostheses. The Wide-View device combines novel technologies with materials that have been successfully used in other clinical implants. This approach incorporates a microchip with 98 stimulating electrodes and aims to provide increased mobility for patients to help them move safely in their environment. This implant will be placed in the suprachoroidal space. Researchers expect the first patient tests to begin with this device in 2013.\n\nThe Bionic Vision Australia consortium is concurrently developing the High-Acuity device, which incorporates a number of new technologies to bring together a microchip and an implant with 1024 electrodes. The device aims to provide functional central vision to assist with tasks such as face recognition and reading large print. This high-acuity implant will be inserted epiretinally. Patient tests are planned for this device in 2014 once preclinical testing has been completed.\n\nPatients with retinitis pigmentosa will be the first to participate in the studies, followed by age-related macular degeneration. Each prototype consists of a camera, attached to a pair of glasses which sends the signal to the implanted microchip, where it is converted into electrical impulses to stimulate the remaining healthy neurons in the retina. This information is then passed on to the optic nerve and the vision processing centres of the brain.\n\nThe Australian Research Council awarded Bionic Vision Australia a $42 million grant in December 2009 and the consortium was officially launched in March 2010. Bionic Vision Australia brings together a multidisciplinary team, many of whom have extensive experience developing medical devices such as the cochlear implant (or 'bionic ear').\n\nSimilar in function to the Harvard/MIT device, except the stimulator chip sits in the primary visual cortex, rather than on the retina. Many subjects have been implanted with a high success rate and limited negative effects. Still in the developmental phase, upon the death of Dobelle, selling the eye for profit was ruled against in favor of donating it to a publicly funded research team.\n\nThe Laboratory of Neural Prosthetics at Illinois Institute Of Technology (IIT), Chicago, is developing a visual prosthetic using intracortical electrode arrays. While similar in principle to the Dobelle system, the use of intracortical electrodes allow for greatly increased spatial resolution in the stimulation signals (more electrodes per unit area). In addition, a wireless telemetry system is being developed to eliminate the need for transcranial wires. Arrays of activated iridium oxide film (AIROF)-coated electrodes will be implanted in the visual cortex, located on the occipital lobe of the brain. External hardware will capture images, process them, and generate instructions which will then be transmitted to implanted circuitry via a telemetry link. The circuitry will decode the instructions and stimulate the electrodes, in turn stimulating the visual cortex. The group is developing a wearable external image capture and processing system to accompany the implanted circuitry. Studies on animals and psyphophysical studies on humans are being conducted to test the feasibility of a human volunteer implant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26016546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26016546", "title": "Walter Adams (footballer)", "text": "Walter Adams (footballer)\n\nWalter Adams was an English professional footballer who played as a winger. He played in the Football League for Middlesbrough Ironopolis.\n"}
{"id": "87890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87890", "title": "Wandering Jew", "text": "Wandering Jew\n\nThe Wandering Jew is a mythical immortal man whose legend began to spread in Europe in the 13th century.\n\nThe original legend concerns a Jew who taunted Jesus on the way to the Crucifixion and was then cursed to walk the earth until the Second Coming. The exact nature of the wanderer's indiscretion varies in different versions of the tale, as do aspects of his character; sometimes he is said to be a shoemaker or other tradesman, while sometimes he is the doorman at Pontius Pilate's estate.\n\nThe earliest extant manuscript with the legend is the \"Flores Historiarum\" by Roger of Wendover, where it appears in the part for the year 1228, under the title \"Of the Jew Joseph who is still alive awaiting the last coming of Christ\".\n\nAt least from the 17th century the name \"Ahasver\" has been given to the Wandering Jew, apparently adapted from Ahasuerus, the Persian king in the Book of Esther, who was not a Jew, and whose very name among medieval Jews was an \"exemplum\" of a fool. This name may have been chosen because the Book of Esther describes the Jews as a persecuted people, scattered across every province of Ahasuerus' vast empire, similar to the later Jewish diaspora in countries whose state and/or majority religions were forms of Christianity.\n\nA variety of names have since been given to the Wandering Jew, including \"Matathias\", \"Buttadeus\", \"Paul Marrane\", and \"Isaac Laquedem\" which is a name for him in France and the Low Countries, in popular legend as well as in a novel by Dumas.\n\nWhere German or Russian are spoken, the emphasis has been on the perpetual character of his punishment, and thus he is known there as \"Ewiger Jude\" and \"vechny zhid\" (вечный жид), the \"Eternal Jew\". In French and other Latin languages, the usage has been to refer to the wanderings, as in French \"le Juif errant\", in Spanish \"el judío errante\" or in Italian \"l'ebreo errante\" and this has been followed in English from the Middle Ages, as the \"Wandering Jew\". In Finnish he is known as \"Jerusalemin suutari\" (Shoemaker of Jerusalem), implying he was a cobbler by his trade.\n\nThe origins of the legend are uncertain; perhaps one element is the story in Genesis of Cain, who is issued with a similar punishment – to wander over the earth, scavenging and never reaping, although without the related punishment of endlessness. According to Jehoshua Gilboa, many commentators have pointed to Hosea 9:17 as a statement of the notion of the \"eternal/wandering Jew\".\nAccording to some sources, the legend stems from Jesus' words given in Matthew :\n\nA belief that the disciple whom Jesus loved would not die was apparently popular enough in the early Christian world to be denounced in the Gospel of John:\n\nAnother passage in the Gospel of John speaks about a guard of the high priest who slaps Jesus (John 18:19-23). Earlier, the Gospel of John talks about Simon Peter striking the ear from a servant of the high priest, named Malchus (John 18:10). Although this servant is probably not the same guard who struck Jesus, Malchus is nonetheless one of the many names given to the wandering Jew in later legend.\nExtant manuscripts have shown that as early as the time of Tertullian (c. 200), some Christian proponents were likening the Jewish people to a \"new Cain\", asserting that they would be \"fugitives and wanderers (upon) the earth\".\n\nAurelius Prudentius Clemens (b. 348) writes in his \"Apotheosis\" (c. 400): \"From place to place the homeless Jew wanders in ever-shifting exile, since the time when he was torn from the abode of his fathers and has been suffering the penalty for murder, and having stained his hands with the blood of Christ whom he denied, paying the price of sin.\"\n\nSome scholars have identified components of the legend of the Eternal Jew in Teutonic legends of the Eternal Hunter, some features of which are derived from Odin mythology.\n\n\"In some areas the farmers arranged the rows in their fields in such a way that on Sundays the Eternal Jew might find a resting place. Elsewhere they assumed that he could rest only upon a plough or that he had to be on the go all year and was allowed a respite only on Christmas.\"\n\nA variant of the Wandering Jew legend is recorded in the \"Flores Historiarum\" by Roger of Wendover around the year 1228. An Armenian archbishop, then visiting England, was asked by the monks of St Albans Abbey about the celebrated Joseph of Arimathea, who had spoken to Jesus, and was reported to be still alive. The archbishop answered that he had himself seen such a man in Armenia, and that his name was Cartaphilus, a Jewish shoemaker, who, when Jesus stopped for a second to rest while carrying his cross, hit him, and told him \"Go on quicker, Jesus! Go on quicker! Why dost Thou loiter?\", to which Jesus, \"with a stern countenance\", is said to have replied: \"I shall stand and rest, but thou shalt go on till the last day.\" The Armenian bishop also reported that Cartaphilus had since converted to Christianity and spent his wandering days proselytizing and leading a hermit's life.\n\nMatthew Paris included this passage from Roger of Wendover in his own history; and other Armenians appeared in 1252 at the Abbey of St Albans, repeating the same story, which was regarded there as a great proof of the truth of the Christian religion. The same Armenian told the story at Tournai in 1243, according to the \"Chronicles of Phillip Mouskes\", (chapter ii. 491, Brussels, 1839). After that, Guido Bonatti writes people saw the Wandering Jew in Forlì (Italy), in the 13th century; other people saw him in Vienna and elsewhere.\n\nThe figure of the doomed sinner, forced to wander without the hope of rest in death till the second coming of Christ, impressed itself upon the popular medieval imagination, mainly with reference to the seeming immortality of the wandering Jewish people. These two aspects of the legend are represented in the different names given to the central figure. In German-speaking countries and Russia he is referred to as ' (the immortal, or eternal, Jew) and ' (), while in Romance-speaking countries he is known as ' and ' (French and Italian for \"the Wandering Jew\"); the English form, probably because it is derived from the French, has followed the Romance. As well as ' (The Wandering Jew), he is known in Spanish as ', (John [who] waits for God).\n\nThere were claims of sightings of the Wandering Jew throughout Europe, since at least 1542 in Hamburg up to 1868 in Harts Corners, New York. Joseph Jacobs, writing in the \"11th edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1911), commented \"It is difficult to tell in any one of these cases how far the story is an entire fiction and how far some ingenious impostor took advantage of the existence of the myth\". It has been alleged by an 1881 writer, who however cites no instances, that the supposed presence of the Wandering Jew has occasionally been used as a pretext for incursions by Gentiles into Jewish quarters during the late Middle Ages, when the legend was accepted as fact.\n\nAnother legend about Jews, the so-called \"Red Jews\", was similarly common in Central Europe in the Middle Ages.\n\nThe legend became more popular after it appeared in a 17th-century pamphlet of four leaves, (Short Description and Tale of a Jew with the Name Ahasuerus). \"Here we are told that some fifty years before, a bishop met him in a church at Hamburg, repentant, ill-clothed and distracted at the thought of having to move on in a few weeks.\" As with urban legends, particularities lend verisimilitude: the bishop is specifically Paulus von Eitzen, General Superintendent of Schleswig. The legend spread quickly throughout Germany, no less than eight different editions appearing in 1602; altogether forty appeared in Germany before the end of the 18th century. Eight editions in Dutch and Flemish are known; and the story soon passed to France, the first French edition appearing in Bordeaux, 1609, and to England, where it appeared in the form of a parody in 1625. The pamphlet was translated also into Danish and Swedish; and the expression \"eternal Jew\" is current in Czech, Slovak, and German, '. Apparently the pamphlets of 1602 borrowed parts of the descriptions of the wanderer from reports (most notably by Balthasar Russow) about an itinerant preacher called Jürgen.\n\nIn France, the Wandering Jew appeared in Simon Tyssot de Patot's \"\" (1720).\n\nIn England the Wandering Jew makes an appearance in one of the secondary plots in Matthew Lewis's Gothic novel \"The Monk\" (1796). The Wandering Jew is depicted as an exorcist whose origin remains unclear. The Wandering Jew also plays a role in \"St. Leon\" (1799) by William Godwin. The Wandering Jew also appears in two English broadside ballads of the 17th and 18th centuries, \"The Wandering Jew\", and \"The Wandering Jew's Chronicle\". The former recounts the biblical story of the Wandering Jew's encounter with Christ, while the latter tells, from the point of view of the titular character, the succession of English monarchs from William the Conqueror through either King Charles II (in the 17th century text) or King George II and Queen Caroline (in the 18th-century version).\n\nIn Britain a ballad with the title \"The Wandering Jew\" was included in Thomas Percy's \"Reliques\" published in 1765.\n\nIn 1797 the operetta \"The Wandering Jew, or Love's Masquerade\" by Andrew Franklin was performed in London.\n\nIn 1810, Percy Bysshe Shelley had written a poem in four cantos with the title \"The Wandering Jew\" but it remained unpublished until 1877. In two other works of Shelley, Ahasuerus appears, as a phantom in his first major poem \"Queen Mab: A Philosophical Poem\" (1813) and later as a hermit healer in his last major work, the verse drama Hellas.\n\nThomas Carlyle, in his \"Sartor Resartus\" (1834), compares its hero Diogenes Teufelsdroeckh on several occasions to the Wandering Jew, (also using the German wording \"\").\n\nIn Chapter 15 of \"Great Expectations\" (1861) by Charles Dickens, the journeyman Orlick is compared to the Wandering Jew.\n\nGeorge MacDonald includes pieces of the legend in \"Thomas Wingfold, Curate\" (London, 1876).\n\nThe minor Cornish poet James Dryden Hosken (1861-1953) concluded \"A Monk's Love\" (1894) with a long poem \"Ahaseurus\" which he later adapted into a dramatic monologue included in his heavily revised play \"Marlowe\" published in \"Shores of Lyonesse\" 1923.\n\nNathaniel Hawthorne's stories \"A Virtuoso's Collection\" and \"Ethan Brand\" feature the Wandering Jew serving as a guide to the stories' characters.\n\nIn 1873 a publisher in North America (Philadelphia, Gebbie) produced \"The Legend of the Wandering Jew, a series of twelve designs by Gustave Doré (Reproduced by Photographic Printing) with Explanatory Introduction.\" For each illustration there was a couplet, such as \"Too late he feels, by look, and deed, and word, / How often he has crucified his Lord\".\n\nIn 1901 a New York publisher reprinted, under the title \"Tarry Thou Till I Come\", George Croly's \"Salathiel\", which treated the subject in an imaginative form. It had appeared anonymously in 1828.\n\nIn Lew Wallace's novel \"The Prince of India\", the Wandering Jew is the protagonist. The book follows his adventures through the ages, as he takes part in the shaping of history. An American rabbi, H.M. Bien, turned the character into the \"Wandering Gentile\" in his novel \"Ben-Beor: A Tale of the Anti-Messiah\"; in the same year John L. McKeever wrote a novel, \"The Wandering Jew: A Tale of the Lost Tribes of Israel\".\n\nA humorous account of the Wandering Jew appears in chapter 54 of Mark Twain's 1869 travel book \"The Innocents Abroad\".\n\nJohn Galt published in 1820 a book called \"The Wandering Jew\".\n\nThe legend has been the subject of German poems by Schubart, Aloys Schreiber, Wilhelm Müller, Lenau, Chamisso, Schlegel, Julius Mosen (an epic, 1838), and Köhler; of novels by Franz Horn (1818), Oeklers, and Schücking; and of tragedies by Klingemann (\"\", 1827) and Zedlitz (1844). It is either the Ahasuerus of Klingemann or that of Ludwig Achim von Arnim in his play, \"Halle and Jerusalem\" to whom Richard Wagner refers in the final passage of his notorious essay \"\".\n\nThere are clear echoes of the Wandering Jew in Wagner's \"The Flying Dutchman\", whose plot line is adapted from a story by Heinrich Heine in which the Dutchman is referred to as \"the Wandering Jew of the ocean\", and his final opera ' features a woman called Kundry who is in some ways a female version of the Wandering Jew. It is alleged that she was formerly Herodias, and she admits that she laughed at Jesus on his route to the Crucifixion, and is now condemned to wander until she meets with him again (cf. Eugene Sue's version, below).\n\nRobert Hamerling, in his ' (Vienna, 1866), identifies Nero with the Wandering Jew. Goethe had designed a poem on the subject, the plot of which he sketched in his '.\n\nHans Christian Andersen made his \"Ahasuerus\" the Angel of Doubt, and was imitated by Heller in a poem on \"The Wandering of Ahasuerus\", which he afterward developed into three cantos. Martin Andersen Nexø wrote a short story named \"The Eternal Jew\", in which he also refers to Ahasuerus as the spreading of the Jewish gene pool in Europe.\n\nThe story of the Wandering Jew is the basis of the essay, \"The Unhappiest One\" in Søren Kierkegaard's \"Either/Or\" (published 1843 in Copenhagen). It is also discussed in an early portion of the book that focuses on Mozart's opera \"Don Giovanni\".\n\nIn the play \"Genboerne\" (The neighbors across the street), the Wandering Jew is a character (in this context called \"Jerusalem's shoemaker\") and his shoes will make you invisible when you wear them. The protagonist of the play borrows the shoes for a night and visits the house across the street as an invisible man.\n\nThe French writer Edgar Quinet published his prose epic on the legend in 1833, making the subject the judgment of the world; and wrote his ' in 1844, in which the author connects the story of Ahasuerus with that of Herodias. Grenier's 1857 poem on the subject may have been inspired by 's designs, which were published the preceding year. One should also note 's ' (1864), which combines several fictional Wandering Jews, both heroic and evil, and Alexandre Dumas' incomplete \"\" (1853), a sprawling historical saga. In Guy de Maupassant's short story 'Uncle Judas' the local people believe that the old man in the story is the Wandering Jew.\n\nIn Russia, the legend of the Wandering Jew appears in an incomplete epic poem by Vasily Zhukovsky, \"Ahasuerus\" (1857) and in another epic poem by Wilhelm Küchelbecker, \"Ahasuerus, a Poem in Fragments\", written in 1832–1846 but not published until 1878, long after the poet's death. Alexander Pushkin also began a long poem on Ahasuerus (1826) but abandoned the project quickly, completing under thirty lines.\n\nThe Wandering Jew makes a notable appearance in the gothic masterpiece of the Polish writer Jan Potocki, \"The Manuscript Found in Saragossa\", written about 1797.\n\nBrazilian writer and poet Machado de Assis often used Jewish themes in his writings. One of his short stories, ' (\"To Live!\"), is a dialog between the Wandering Jew (named as Ahasverus) and Prometheus at the end of time. It was published in 1896 as part of the book ' (\"Several stories\").\n\nCastro Alves, another Brazilian poet, wrote a poem named \"\" (\"Ahasverus and the genie\"), in a reference to the Wandering Jew.\n\nThe Hungarian poet János Arany also wrote a ballad called \"\", meaning \"The everlasting Jew\".\n\nThe Slovenian poet Anton Aškerc wrote a poem called \"Ahasverjev tempelj\" (\"Ahasverus' Temple\").\n\nThe Spanish military writer José Gómez de Arteche's novel \"Un soldado español de veinte siglos\" (\"A Spanish soldier of twenty centuries\") (1874–1886) depicts the Wandering Jew as serving in the Spanish military of different periods.\n\nIn Argentina, the topic of the Wandering Jew has appeared several times in the work of Enrique Anderson Imbert, particularly in his short-story ' (The Grimoire), included in the eponymous book. Chapter XXXVII, ', in the collection of short stories, \"Misteriosa Buenos Aires\", by the Argentine writer Manuel Mujica Láinez also centres round the wandering of the Jew. The great Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges named the main character and narrator of his short story \"The Immortal\" Joseph Cartaphilus (in the story he was a Roman military tribune who gained immortality after drinking from a magical river and dies in the 1920s). In \"Green Mansions\", W.H. Hudson's protagonist Abel, references Ahasuerus, as an archetype of someone, like himself, who prays for redemption and peace; while condemned to walk the earth. In 1967, the Wandering Jew appears as an unexplained magical realist townfolk legend in Gabriel García Márquez's \"100 Years of Solitude\". A Colombian writer, Prospero Morales Pradilla, in his novel \"\" (\"The sins of Ines de Hinojosa\") describes the famous Wandering Jew of Tunja that has been there since the 16th century. He talks about the wooden statue of the Wandering Jew that is at Santo Domingo church and every year during the holy week is carried around in the shoulders of the Easter penitents around the city. The main feature of the statue are his eyes; they can express the hatred and anger in front of Jesus carrying the cross. In Mariano Azuela's novel of the Mexican Revolution, \"Los de abajo\", (\"The Underdogs\") the character Venancio, a semi-educated barber, entertains the band of revolutionaries by recounting episodes from \"The Wandering Jew\", one of two books he had read.\n\nGuillaume Apollinaire parodies the character in \" in his\ncollection \" (1910).\n\nJean d'Ormesson: \" (1991)\n\nSimone de Beauvoir: in her novel \" (1946, \"All Men are Mortal\"), the leading figure Raymond Fosca undergoes a faith similar to the wandering Jew, who is being explicitly mentioned as a reference.\n\nIn both Gustav Meyrink's \"The Green Face\" (1916) and Leo Perutz's\n\"The Marquis of Bolibar\" (1920), the Wandering Jew features as a central character.\nThe German writer Stefan Heym in his novel \"\" (translated into English as \"The Wandering Jew\") maps a story of Ahasuerus and Lucifer raging between ancient times, the Germany of Luther and socialist East Germany. In Heym's depiction, the Wandering Jew is a highly sympathetic character.\n\nThe Belgian writer August Vermeylen published in 1906 a novel called \"\" (\"The Wandering Jew\").\n\nMihai Eminescu, an influential Romanian writer, depicts in his romantic fantastic novella \"\" a variation. A student follows a surreal journey through the book of Zoroaster, a book seeming to give him God-like abilities. The book is given to him by Ruben, his Jewish master who is a philosopher. Dan is eventually tricked by Ruben and is sentenced by God to a life of insanity, which he can escape only by resurrection.\n\nSimilarly, Mircea Eliade presents in his novel \"Dayan\" (1979) a student's mystic and fantastic journey through time and space under the guidance of the Wandering Jew, in the search of a higher truth and of his own self.\n\nThe Soviet satirists Ilya Ilf and Yevgeni Petrov had their hero Ostap Bender tell the story of the Wandering Jew's death at the hands of Ukrainian nationalists in \"The Little Golden Calf\". In Vsevolod Ivanov's story \"Ahasver\" a weird man comes to a Soviet writer in Moscow in 1944, introduces himself as \"Ahasver the cosmopolite\" and claims he is Paul von Eitzen, a theologian from Hamburg, who concocted the legend of Wandering Jew in the 16th century to become rich and famous but then turned himself into a real Ahasver against his will. The novel \"Overburdened with Evil\" (1988) by Arkady and Boris Strugatsky involves a character in modern setting who turns out to be Ahasuerus, identified at the same time in a subplot with John the Divine. In the novel \"Going to the Light\" (\"\", 1998) by Sergey Golosovsky Ahasuerus turns out to be Apostle Paul punished (together with Moses and Mohammed) for inventing false religion.\n\nIn Pär Lagerkvist's 1956 novel \"The Sibyl\", Ahasuerus and a woman who was once the Delphic Sibyl each tell their stories, describing how an interaction with the divine damaged their lives. Lagerkvist continued the story of Ahasuerus in \"\" (\"The Death of Ahasuerus\", 1960).\n\nIn O. Henry's story \"The Door of Unrest\", a drunk shoemaker Mike O'Bader comes to a local newspaper editor and claims to be the Jerusalem shoemaker Michob Ader who did not let Christ rest upon his doorstep on the way to crucifixion and was condemned to live until the Second Coming. However, Mike O'Bader insists he is a Gentile, not a Jew.\n\nRobert Nichols' novella \"Golgotha & Co.\" in his collection \"Fantastica\" (1923) is a\nsatirical tale where the Wandering Jew is a successful businessman who subverts the Second Coming.\n\nIn Evelyn Waugh's \"Helena\", the Wandering Jew appears in a dream to the protagonist and shows her where to look for the Cross, the goal of her quest.\n\nAn unidentified Jewish Wanderer appears in \"A Canticle for Leibowitz\", a post-apocalyptic science fiction novel by Walter M. Miller, Jr. first published in 1960; some children are heard saying of the old man, \"What Jesus raises up STAYS raised up\", implying that he is St. Lazarus of Bethany, whom Christ raised from the dead. Another possibility hinted at in the novel is that this character is also Isaac Edward Leibowitz, founder of the Albertian Order of St. Leibowitz (and who was martyred for trying to preserve books from burning by a savage mob). The character speaks and writes in Hebrew and English, and wanders around the desert, though he has a tent on a mesa overlooking the abbey founded by Leibowitz, which is the setting for almost all the novel's action. The character appears again in three subsequent novellas which take place hundreds of years apart, and in Miller's 1997 follow-up novel, \"Saint Leibowitz and the Wild Horse Woman\".\n\nAhasuerus must remain on Earth after space travel is developed in Lester del Rey's \"Earthbound\" (1963). J. G. Ballard's short story \"The Lost Leonardo\", published in \"The Terminal Beach\" (1964), centres on a search for the Wandering Jew. The Wandering Jew also appears in Mary Elizabeth Counselman's story \"A Handful of Silver\" (1967). Barry Sadler has written a series of books featuring a character called Casca Rufio Longinus who is a combination of two characters from Christian folklore, Saint Longinus and the Wandering Jew. Jack L. Chalker wrote a five book series called \"The Well World Saga\" in which it is mentioned many times that the creator of the universe, a man named Nathan Brazil, is known as the Wandering Jew. There is a discussion about the Wandering Jew in the Robert Heinlein novel \"Time Enough for Love\". The horror novel \"Devil Daddy\" (1972) by John Blackburn features the Wandering Jew. In January 1987 DC Comics the 10th issue of \"Secret Origins\" gave The Phantom Stranger four possible origins. In one of these explanations, the Stranger confirms to a priest that he is the Wandering Jew. Angela Hunt's novel \"The Immortal\" (2000) features the Wandering Jew under the name of Asher Genzano.\n\nGeorge Sylvester Viereck and Paul Eldridge wrote a trilogy of novels \"My First Two Thousand Years: an Autobiography of the Wandering Jew\" (1928), in which Isaac Laquedem is a Roman soldier who, after being told by Jesus that he will \"tarry until I return\", goes on to influence many of the great events of history. He frequently encounters Solome (described as \"The Wandering Jewess\"), and travels with a companion, to whom he has passed on his immortality via a blood transfusion (another attempt to do this for a woman he loved ended in her death).\n\nIn \"Ilium\" by Dan Simmons (2003), a woman who is addressed as the Wandering Jew plays a central role, though her real name is Savi.\n\nThe Wandering Jew is revealed to be Judas Iscariot in George R.R. Martin's distant-future science fiction parable of Christianity, the 1979 short story \"The Way of Cross and Dragon\".\n\nThe Wandering Jew appears as a sympathetic character in Diana Wynne Jones's young adult novel \"The Homeward Bounders\". His fate is tied in with larger plot themes regarding destiny, disobedience, and punishment. \"Ahasver\", a cult leader identified with the Wandering Jew, is a central figure in Anthony Boucher's classic mystery novel \"Nine Times Nine\" (originally published 1940 under the name H. Holmes). The Wandering Jew encounters a returned Christ in Deborah Grabien's 1990 novel \"Plainsong\".\n\n\"The Wandering Jew\" is the title of a short poem by Edwin Arlington Robinson which appears in his book \"The Three Taverns\". In the poem, the speaker encounters a mysterious figure with eyes that \"remembered everything\". He recognizes him from \"his image when I was a child\" and finds him to be bitter, with \"a ringing wealth of old anathemas\"; a man for whom the \"world around him was a gift of anguish\". The speaker does not know what became of him, but believes that \"somewhere among men to-day / Those old, unyielding eyes may flash / And flinch – and look the other way.\"\n\nAlthough he does not appear in Robert A. Heinlein's novel \"Time Enough for Love\" [1973], the central character, Lazarus Long, claims to have encountered the Wandering Jew at least once, possibly multiple times, over the course of his long life. According to Lazarus, he was then using the name Sandy Macdougal and was operating as a confidence man. He is described as having red hair and being, in Lazarus' words, a \"crashing bore\".\n\nBrazilian writer Glauco Ortolano in his 2000 novel \"Domingos Vera Cruz: Memorias de um Antropofago Lisboense no Brasil\" uses the theme of the Wandering Jew for its main character, Domingos Vera Cruz, who flees to Brazil in one of the first Portuguese expeditions to the New World after murdering his wife's lover in Portugal. In order to avoid eternal damnation, he must fully repent of his crime. The book of memoirs Domingos dictates in the 21st Century to an anonymous transcriber narrates his own saga throughout 500 years of Brazilian history. At the end, Domingos indicates he is finally giving in as he senses the arrival of the Son of Man. \nEnglish writer Stephen Gallagher uses the Wandering Jew as a theme in his 2007 novel \"The Kingdom of Bones.\" The Wandering Jew is a character, a theater manager and actor, who turned away from God and toward depravity in exchange for long life and prosperity. He must find another person to take on the persona of the wanderer before his life ends or risk eternal damnation. He eventually does find a substitute in his protégé, Louise. The novel revolves around another character's quest to find her and save her from her assumed damnation.\n\nSarah Perry's 2018 novel \"Melmoth\" is part-inspired by the Wandering Jew, and makes several references to the legend in discussing the origin of its titular character.\n\nAmerican writer Jaxon Reed portrays the Wandering Jew as an assassin for the Westphalian Courts in his 2018 novel \"Cybershot: An Empathic Detective Novel.\" The character stays abreast of technology and uses it against the military and others.\n\nUzbek writer Isajon Sulton published his novel \"The Wandering Jew\" in 2011. In this novel, the Jew does not characterize a symbol of curse; however, they appear as a human being, who is aware of God’s presence, after being cursed by Him. Moreover, the novel captures the fortune of present-day wandering Jews, created by humans using high technologies.\n\n19th century works depicting the legendary figure as the Wandering (or Eternal) Jew or as Ahasuerus (Ahasver) include:\n\n\nIn another artwork, exhibited at Basel in 1901, the legendary figure with the name \"Der ewige Jude\", \"The Eternal Jew\", was shown redemptively bringing the Torah back to the Promised Land.\n\nAmong the paintings of Marc Chagall having a connection with the legend, one of 1923–1925 has the explicit title \"Le Juif Errant\" (1923–1925).\n\nIn his painting \"The Wandering Jew\" (1983) Michael Sgan-Cohen depicts a birdlike figure standing with a black hand pointed to the back of its head, as if it were holding a gun; another hand points down from heaven is using the motif of the Hand of God and suggesting the divine origin of the curse. The birdlike figure depicted is wearing a \"Judenhut\". The empty chair in the foreground of the painting is a symbol of how the figure cannot settle down and is forced to keep wandering.\n\nBy the beginning of the eighteenth century, the figure of the \"Wandering Jew\" as a legendary individual had begun to be identified with the fate of the Jewish people as a whole. After the ascendancy of Napoleon Bonaparte at the end of the century and the emancipating reforms in European countries connected with the policy of Napoleon and the Jews, the \"Eternal Jew\" became an increasingly \"symbolic ... and universal character\" as the continuing struggle for Jewish emancipation in Prussia and elsewhere in Europe in the course of the nineteenth century gave rise to what came to be referred to as \"the Jewish Question\".\n\nBefore Kaulbach's mural replica of his painting \"Titus destroying Jerusalem\" had been commissioned by the King of Prussia in 1842 for the projected Neues Museum, Berlin, Gabriel Riesser's essay \"Stellung der Bekenner des mosaischen Glaubens in Deutschland\" (\"On the Position of Confessors of the Mosaic Faith in Germany\") had been published in 1831 and the journal \"Der Jude, periodische Blätter für Religions- und Gewissensfreiheit\" (\"The Jew, Periodical for Freedom of Religion and Thought\") had been founded in 1832. In 1840 Kaulbach himself had published a booklet of Explanations identifying the main figures for his projected painting, including that of the Eternal Jew in flight as an outcast for having rejected Christ. In 1843 Bruno Bauer's book \"The Jewish Question\" was published, to which Karl Marx responded by an article with the title \"On the Jewish Question\".\nA caricature which had first appeared in a French publication in 1852, depicting the legendary figure with \"a red cross on his forehead, spindly legs and arms, huge nose and blowing hair, and staff in hand\", was co-opted by anti-Semites. It was shown at the Nazi exhibition \"Der Ewige Jude\" in Germany and Austria in 1937–1938. A reproduction of it was exhibited at Yad Vashem in 2007 (shown here).\n\nThe exhibition had been held at the Library of the German Museum in Munich from November 8, 1937 to January 31, 1938 showing works that the Nazis considered to be \"degenerate art\". A book containing images of these works was published under the title \"The Eternal Jew\". It had been preceded by other such exhibitions in Mannheim, Karlsruhe, Dresden, Berlin and Vienna. The works of art displayed at these exhibitions were generally executed by avant-garde artists who had become recognized and esteemed in the 1920s, but the objective of the exhibitions was not to present the works as worthy of admiration but to deride and condemn them.\n\nFromental Halévy's opera \"Le Juif errant\", based on the novel by Sue, was premiered at the Paris Opera (Salle Le Peletier) on 23 April 1852, and had 48 further performances over two seasons. The music was sufficiently popular to generate a \"Wandering Jew Mazurka\", a \"Wandering Jew Waltz\", and a \"Wandering Jew Polka\".\n\nA Hebrew-language play titled \"The Eternal Jew\" premiered at the Moscow Habimah Theatre in 1919 and was performed at the Habima Theatre in New York in 1926.\n\nDonald Wolfit made his debut as the Wandering Jew in a stage adaptation in London in 1924. The play \"Spikenard\" (1930) by C. E. Lawrence, has the Jew wander an uninhabited Earth along with Judas and the Impenitent thief. Glen Berger's 2001 play \"Underneath the Lintel\" is a monologue by a Dutch librarian who delves into the history of a book that is returned 113 years overdue and becomes convinced that the borrower was the Wandering Jew.\n\nThere have been several films on the topic of \"The Wandering Jew\":\n\n\nThe DC Comics character Phantom Stranger, a mysterious hero with paranormal abilities, was given four possible origins in an issue of \"Secret Origins\" with one of them identifying him as the Wandering Jew. He now dedicates his time to helping mankind, even declining a later offer from God to release him from his penance.\n\nIn Deitch's \"A Shroud for Waldo\" serialized in weekly papers such as \"New York Press\" and released in book form by Fantagraphics, the hospital attendant who revives Waldo as a hulking demon so he can destroy the AntiChrist, is none other than the Wandering Jew. For carrying out this mission, he is awarded a normal life and, it is implied, marries the woman he just rescued. Waldo, having reverted to cartoon cat form, is also rewarded, finding it in a freight car.\n\nIn Neil Gaiman's \"The Sandman\" comic series, the character Hob Gadling represents the archetypal Wandering Jew. Later, the character Johanna Constantine remarks on a rumor that The Devil and the Wandering Jew meet once every hundred years in a tavern, further drawing out the connection.\n\nIn Kore Yamazaki's manga \"The Ancient Magus' Bride\", the character Cartaphilus, also known as Joseph, is a mysterious being that looks like a young boy, but is much older. He is dubbed \"The Wandering Jew\" and is said to have been cursed with immortality for throwing a rock at the Son of God. It is later revealed that Joseph and Cartaphilus used to be two different people until Joseph fused with Cartaphilus in an attempt to remove his curse, only to become cursed himself.\n\nIn various Pokémon media, including the \"Pokémon Adventures\" manga and the \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\" games, a character named AZ is cursed with eternal life and wanders in search of his lost Pokémon for the part he played in a war, thus sharing similar qualities with the Wandering Jew.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49341959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49341959", "title": "Wasil Ahmad", "text": "Wasil Ahmad\n\nWasil Ahmad (c. 2005 – February 2016) was an Afghan child soldier, who is best known for commanding a police unit and his subsequent killing by the Taliban when he was eleven years old. His uncle Samad, trained him \"in the use of AK-47 and PK machine guns, rockets and mortars as well as satellite phones and VHF radios.\"\n\nWasil Ahmad was born in Uruzgan province. The region has been described as \"long... a centre of conflict;\" Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar was born there, and the later president of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai, led the first Pashtun revolt against the Taliban there in 2001. Ahmad's father had previously been killed fighting the Taliban, and his son later said that seeking revenge for his father's death was his main motivation in going to war. Ahmad's uncle was the Afghan Local Police commander in Khas Uruzgan District, Uruzgan province. He had previously been a Taliban commander, but had changed sides in 2012, and was now fighting for the Afghan government. In summer 2015, Khas Uruzgan- his area of control- was besieged by the Taliban, and Samad was injured. Ahmad subsequently took command of his uncle's unit.\n\nAt the height of the Dan Sango siege, Ahmad was commanding 75 pro-government soldiers against an attacking force of approximately \"hundreds\" of Taliban. The siege itself lasted for 71 days, and Ahmad commanded his squad for 43 of them. He fired both mortars and rockets as well as machine guns from the compound roof. As well as physical fighting, Ahmad was also responsible for communications with the outside world, and the point of contact for the Afghan special forces. When the latter raised the siege in August 2015, Ahmad and 35 surviving soldiers were airlifted out by Afghan and NATO helicopters to Tarin Kowt. According to Samad, the authorities \"praised him and his nephew Wasil as heroes.\"\n\nFollowing the siege, Ahmad enrolled into school in the fourth-grade, whilst also receiving private tuition at home. He improved his English, although was not \"a good student\" – possibly, a neighbour later commented, because he had been \"highly encouraged by police officials and awarded medals for his bravery\" and only \"wanted to play with weapons and drive police vehicles as a hobby.\" He was authorised to carry a pistol to school. On Monday, 1 February 2015, at the local bazaar, on his way to school, he was shot twice in the head by masked gunmen in a motorbike drive-by shooting, in what has been called a \"targeted assassination\". He later died in a Kandahar hospital and was buried in the local Shahidano cemetery.\n\nFollowing Ahmad's death, there was controversy as to his precise position in the besieged force. Samad stressed that Ahmad was merely \"defending his family,\" whilst Samad recovered from injuries he had already received. The Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission, however, said that, since he had been supplied with a gun and a police uniform, this was in breach of anti-child-soldiering laws. The Commission also suggested that the police had themselves endangered Ahmad's life by lauding him as a hero. They had garlanded him 'with plastic flowers' and even held a program at Police headquarters \"where his bravery and courage was talked about by officials.\" The government Ministry of Interior Affairs also denied that child soldiers were used by government forces; conversely, the charity Child Soldiers International has also claimed that both sides used them.\n"}
{"id": "29874968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29874968", "title": "Wengania", "text": "Wengania\n\nWengania is a non-differentaited, non-mineralized algal thallus under a millimeter in diameter.\n"}
{"id": "23144569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23144569", "title": "Yoshika Yuhnagi", "text": "Yoshika Yuhnagi\n\nYoshika Yuhnagi (優奈木 よしか, February 8, 1983 - January 4, 2001), better known simply as Yoshika or Yuhnagi (夕凪 / ゆーなぎ), was a Japanese fashion model.\nBorn in Yahatahigashi-ku, Kitakyūshū to parents from Kumamoto and Okinawa, Yuhnagi grew up in the city and began both professional and commercial fashion modeling at the age of 11. Her early commercial appearances were for Fukuoka-local teen magazines.\nAfter being discovered by a Shogakukan's magazine editor, at the age of 12, she began appearing in a number of well-known fashion magazines such as Vivi and Seventeen under her several stage names, and also in several TV / print ads. She signed exclusive contracts with at least 9 fashion houses in her first 3 years of modeling.\n\nShe was notorious for her violence against people especially men such as male designers, and her alcohol issues as she was a heavy drinker. One of her alcohol-related incidents took place in August 2000, when she was arrested together with another fashion model, allegedly her friend Anna Tsuchiya, after running full-naked on Omiya's mainstreet and in a public high school filled with hundreds of students, while under the influence of a large amount of alcohol. Tsuchiya (also naked but shown only from the waist up for short times) chased Yuhnagi but failed to catch her, and then Yuhnagi assaulted a policeman who subdued Tsuchiya, and eventually she was arrested. TV Saitama's News 930 channel reported this incident, but sank their names for a voluntary restraint related to the Youth Act law, describing Yuhnagi as a \"rampaging young girl with dyed, pink-colored hair and some heavy accent, a professional model\".\n\nIn late 2000, as a high-featured teenage model with a rapidly rising popularity, she appeared on several television programs which included TV Asahi's \"Tonight 2\" and TBS's \"Wonderful\".\nOn January 4, 2001 after drinking too much Shochu, Vodka and Dom Perignon, Yuhnagi slept in a park located near her condominium and was frozen, eventually died of hypothermia, at the age of 17. She was not an alcoholic in medical terms, but some witnesses assumed that she in her later days would drink not for pleasure, as it seemed more like an obsession as if she was possessed by something. Her last name, Yuhnagi, meant \"evening calm\".\nNear the end of 2010, according to Natsuki Kato's column on the Nikkei BP magazine, several Kyushu-born fashion models, including Rena Takeshita, paid tribute to Yuhnagi with a special banquet in Otsu. As of 2011, ten years after her death, her name has still not been forgotten in her homeland, the Northern Kyushu area. A Fukuoka-based lifestyle magazine named \"Fukuoka-mon\" conducted a poll in March 2011, on which Yoshika was named one of the five most popular fashion models among women in their twenties there.\n"}
