{"id": "7707370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7707370", "title": "Action assembly theory", "text": "Action assembly theory\n\nAction assembly theory (AAT) is a communication theory that emphasizes psychological and social influences on human action. The goal is to examine and describe the links between the cognition and behavior – how an individual's thoughts get transformed into action. It was developed by John Greene.\n\nAction assembly theory describes the production of behavior in two essential processes: \n\nThe idea of procedural record is at the center of action assembly. These records contain information about action, outcomes, and situations. These records are locked in the individual’s memory where it remembers past behaviors for the future.\n\nA procedural record is at the center of action assembly. It is a personal nugget of truth about past behavior stockpiled for future use, part of an individual's memory system in which information about how to execute various behaviors is stored. Procedural records contain information about action, outcomes, and situations; for example, traveling at excessive speed (action) in a zone that specifies low speed limit (situation)can result in the issuance of a ticket (outcome).\n\nProcedural records have different levels of strength. Some are mere scratches that barely leave a trace in the mind, while others are well-worn into long-term memory.\n\nA central aspect of the action assembly theory is specifying the processes that link procedural records to behavioral representations. The activation process is the process used to select particular procedural records. For example, if a parent disciplined a child for stealing, all procedural records relevant to this goal and situation would be activated. In turn, if a common disciplinary tactic was to take away toys and play items, a procedural record of that would be activated quickly.\n\nIt is also important to consider the process of assembly, which organizes records into a behavioral representation. For example, assembly is considered a top-down process that begins with general strategy and goes to more specific ideas about communicating the specific message.\n\nAction assembly theory has been useful for topics such as speech onset latency and hesitations during speaking. These concepts are assumed to be indicators of cognitive processing. Another use is the study of planning – individuals who plan more effectively are more fluent than those do not, because planning reduces the cognitive load at the time of message production.\n\nWhen an interaction situation has multiple goals, the theory finds increased demands on an individual's information processing capacity. Assembly of goals may be difficult because a specific goals may be incompatible with behaviors associated with the other goals. In turn, multiple goal messages involve more speech hesitations and latencies. The utilization of Action Assembly theory can provide a clear opportunity to plan or assemble goals more careful to mitigate the effect.\n\nWhen an interaction situation has multiple goals, the theory finds increased demands on an individual’s information processing capacity. Assembly of goals may be difficult because a specific goal may be incompatible with behaviors associated with each other goals. In turn, multiple goal messages involve more speech hesitation. The utilization of AAT can provide a clear opportunity to plan or assemble goals more careful to ease the effect.\n\n"}
{"id": "57033622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57033622", "title": "Asriel Günzig", "text": "Asriel Günzig\n\nAsriel Günzig (also known as Azriel Günzig, Ezriel Günzig, Israel Günzig, Izrael Günzig, or J. Günzig) () was a rabbi, scholar, bookseller, editor and writer. He served as the rabbi of Loštice, Moravia, from 1899 until 1920.\n\nGünzig was born on April 10, 1868, in Kraków, where he received traditional Talmudic education, and he finished his studies in philosophy and Semitic languages at the University of Bern, where he earned his doctorate.\n\nIn 1899, he became the rabbi of the Jewish Congregation in Loštice, a position he held until the spring of 1920, when he moved to Antwerp, Belgium, with his family.\n\nIn Antwerp, he became the head of the Hebrew Tachkemoni School and held this position for ten years.\n\nHe died in Antwerp in 1931 at the age of 63.\n\nGünzig and his wife Amalia (nee Schreiber) had four children: Regina (born 1898 in Kraków, died 1992), Sabine (born 1901 in Loštice; murdered at Auschwitz), Jacques (born 1904 in Loštice; murdered July 28, 1942, at the Mauthausen concentration camp) and Hilda (born 1910 in Loštice; died 1995).\n\nHis scholarly work was mainly focused on the history of Haskalah (Jewish Enlightenment) in Galicia, but he dealt with other subjects as well.\n\nIn 1898, Günzig published Japheth ha-Levi's commentary on Ecclesiastes 1-3.\n\nHis own published works include: \"Der Pessimismus im Judenthume\" (Kraków, 1899), \"Rabbi Israel Baal-Schem\" (Brno, 1908); \"Die \"Wundermänner\" im jüdischen Volke\" (Antwerp, 1921); and \"Das jüdische Schrifttum über den Wert des Lebens\" (Hannover, 1924).\n\nIn 1898-1913 he edited the literary magazine \"Ha-Eshkol\" ().\n\nHe also contributed to the Hebrew encyclopedia \"\".\n"}
{"id": "17923124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17923124", "title": "BT Highway", "text": "BT Highway\n\nBT Highway was a UK retail ISDN2e service from British Telecom which was announced in November 1997 and withdrawn in February 2007. In the domestic market, it was sold as BT Home Highway and for small businesses, BT Business Highway. These names were used simply to differentiate billing schemes; the hardware for both services used the name BT Highway. Unlike regular ISDN2e service where only a digital S interface is provided BT Highway provided both digital and analogue connections simplifying migration from regular POTS service.\n\nDue to ISDN's ability to establish connections in less than 3 seconds, compared to 30–60 seconds for a dial-up modem, BT Highway provided many people's first experience of a near always-on Internet connection. The service also provided many people's first experience of an Internet connection that ran faster than a dial-up modem (up to 128 kbit/s compared to 56 kbit/s, and with a latency of 75-150 ms compared to 150-300 ms). BT Highway was available five or more years before the availability of broadband, especially in rural areas where ISDN was available over far longer distances, and far more telephone exchanges, than the initial roll-out of ADSL.\n\nBT Highway was provided as a wall-mounted panel that supplemented an analogue master socket. A blank faceplate was placed across the analogue master socket so that all connections had to be performed through the panel.\n\nBT Highway was distinctive because, unlike most ISDN services, it was aimed at both home and small business users, and incorporated both analogue sockets (coloured white) and ISDN sockets (coloured blue). It was possible to plug in both Cat5 ISDN equipment and traditional POTS analogue telephones at the same time into the same master panel; normally an ISDN master panel provides only ISDN sockets. As with a standard ISDN2e service, it was possible to mix and match concurrent connections to provide two concurrent analogue phone calls, one analogue phone call and one ISDN 64kbit/s call, two 64 kbit/s ISDN calls or one 128 kbit/s ISDN call. The analogue sockets were standard UK BS6312 sockets and included a ring capacitor.\n\nUnlike an analogue master socket, BT Highway required external power from a mains electric adaptor. However, in the event of a power cut, the system still allowed analogue telephone calls to be made through the first analogue socket.\n\nConnection to the Internet was typically performed either by a dedicated ISDN router or by an ISDN PCI card. Later versions of BT Highway provided a USB port which PCs could connect to; a driver CD was supplied and the device was seen as an ISDN modem by Windows. As with ISDN2e, most brands of device typically allowed the user to automatically connect and drop the second ISDN channel to switch between 64 kbit/s and 128 kbit/s, depending on whether one channel was already being used (for example, for a simultaneous analogue telephone call).\n\nThree phone numbers were provided as standard. Two for the analogue ports and one for use by ISDN equipment. Home highway users were limited to these while business highway users could order Multiple Subscriber Numbering to get more phone numbers for ISDN equipment. \n\nBT Highway was announced in November 1997 and introduced on an exchange-by-exchange basis starting in September 1998. BT stopped selling new services on 5 September 2005 and stopped providing BT Highway services altogether in February 2007, encouraging users to migrate to ADSL. Where migration to ADSL was not possible, BT continued to sell their ISDN2e service for business customers only.\n\n"}
{"id": "426638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426638", "title": "Breyten Breytenbach", "text": "Breyten Breytenbach\n\nBreyten Breytenbach (; born 16 September 1939) is a South African writer and painter known for his opposition to apartheid, and consequent imprisonment by the South African government. He is informally considered as the national poet laureate by Afrikaans-speaking South Africans of the region. He also holds French citizenship.\n\nBreyten Breytenbach was born in Bonnievale, approximately 180 km from Cape Town and 100 km from the southernmost tip of Africa at Cape Agulhas. His early education was at Hoërskool Hugenoot and he later studied fine arts at the Michaelis School of Fine Art at the University of Cape Town. His committed opposition to apartheid policy compelled him to leave South Africa for Paris, France, in the early 1960s, where he married a French woman of Vietnamese ancestry, Yolande, due to which he was not allowed to return: The \"Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act\" of 1949 and \"The Immorality Act\" (1950) made it a criminal offence for a white person to have any sexual relations with a person of a different race.\n\nOn an illegal clandestine trip to South Africa in 1975 he was arrested and sentenced to nine years' imprisonment for high treason: his work \"The True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist\" describes aspects of his imprisonment. According to André Brink, Breytenbach was retried in June 1977 on new and fanciful charges that, among other things, he had planned a Russian submarine attack on the prison at Robben Island through the conspiratorial \"Okhela Organisation\". In the end, the judge found him guilty only of having smuggled letters and poems out of jail, for which he was fined 50 dollars. \n\nReleased in 1982 as a result of international protests, he returned to Paris and obtained French citizenship.\n\nHe became a visiting professor at the University of Cape Town in the Graduate School of Humanities in January 2000 and is also involved with the Gorée Institute in Dakar (Senegal) and with New York University, where he teaches in the Graduate Creative Writing Program.\n\nBreytenbach's work includes numerous volumes of novels, poetry and essays, many of which are in Afrikaans. Many have been translated from Afrikaans to English, and many were originally published in English. He is also known for his works of pictorial arts. Exhibitions of his paintings and prints have been shown in cities around the world, including Johannesburg, Cape Town, Hong Kong, Amsterdam, Stockholm, Paris, Brussels, Edinburgh and New York City.\n\nHe is the brother of Jan Breytenbach, co-founder of the 1st Reconnaissance Commando of the South African Special Forces, and Cloete Breytenbach, a widely published war correspondent. He is the father of the French journalist Daphnee Breytenbach.\n\n\n\nBreytenbach is the only exception mentioned by name in the satirical Apartheid-era Spitting Image song I've Never Met a Nice South African.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44944834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44944834", "title": "Briar Gardner", "text": "Briar Gardner\n\nMaria Louisa \"Briar\" Gardner (29 July 1879 – 20 October 1968) was a New Zealand potter and speech therapist.\n\nGardner was born on 29 July 1879 in Hobsonville, Auckland, to Louise (née Clark) and John Gardner. As a child she was tutored at home before spending two years at Araparera School after it opened in 1893.\n\nGrowing up, her family was involved in the pottery industry: her uncles owned the Amalgamated Brick and Pipe Company, while her brothers established a brickworks in 1902 at New Lynn - with guidance from Gardner, they later expanded into domesticware and became known as Crown Lynn. She moved to live with her brothers at New Lynn.\n\nGardner became increasingly interested in creative arts and began embroidery, tapestry and painting, spending some time in Australia studying these crafts and exhibiting her decorative needlework in Auckland in 1920. She began taking classes at Elam School of Fine Arts, studying sculpture under William Wright and learning about Māori design from artist and illustrator Trevor Lloyd.\n\nGardner became interested in pottery when English potter Willam Speer came to work at New Lynn on a newly installed pottery wheel. Although he was largely discouraging, she began to teach herself pottery, beginning at 5.30am and working for two hours until Speer came to work at 7.30 am. She experimented with different glazes and decorating materials, experiencing technical difficulties in her early works.\n\nDuring the 1930s, her skill and recognition developed. She began regularly exhibiting her pottery through the Auckland Society of Arts in 1930. In 1937 she exhibited with the Waikato Society of Arts alongside four other women artists. The following year, she established a kiln and pottery studio at her family home. During the war years, demand for her work increased, and her work was sold throughout New Zealand, but particularly at the Auckland departments stores Smith & Caughey's, and Milne & Choyce. Her pottery was also exported to Australia at times.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, Gardner “was praised for the marked development in her work, particularly her use of ‘soft harmonious colourings’, ‘flowing glazes’ and Maori and indigenous plant motifs.”\n\nBy 1950, arthritis forced her to stop pottery, and in 1951 she trained as a speech and drama teacher. She died in Auckland on 20 October 1968.\n\nGardner's work is held in the collections of the Auckland War Memorial Museum and Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1668575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1668575", "title": "Bulbous bow", "text": "Bulbous bow\n\nA bulbous bow is a protruding bulb at the bow (or front) of a ship just below the waterline. The bulb modifies the way the water flows around the hull, reducing drag and thus increasing speed, range, fuel efficiency, and stability. Large ships with bulbous bows generally have twelve to fifteen percent better fuel efficiency than similar vessels without them. A bulbous bow also increases the buoyancy of the forward part and hence reduces the pitching of the ship to a small degree.\n\nBulbous bows have been found to be most effective when used on vessels that meet the following conditions:\nThus, large vessels that cross large bodies of water near their best speed will benefit from a bulbous bow. This would include naval vessels, cargo ships, passenger ships, tankers and supertankers. All of these ships tend to be large and usually operate within a small range of speeds close to their top speed.\nBulbous bows are less beneficial in smaller craft and may actually be detrimental to their performance and economy. Thus, they are rarely used on tugboats or recreational craft like powerboats, sailing vessels, and yachts.\n\nThe effect of the bulbous bow can be explained using the concept of destructive interference of waves:\n\nA conventionally shaped bow causes a bow wave. A bulb alone forces the water to flow up and over it forming a trough. Thus, if a bulb is added to a conventional bow at the proper position, the bulb trough coincides with the crest of the bow wave, and the two cancel out, reducing the vessel's wake. While inducing another wave stream saps energy from the ship, canceling out the second wave stream at the bow changes the pressure distribution along the hull, thereby reducing wave resistance. The effect that pressure distribution has on a surface is known as the form effect.\n\nA sharp bow on a conventional hull form would produce waves and low drag like a bulbous bow, but waves coming from the side would strike it harder. The blunt bulbous bow also produces higher pressure in a large region in front, making the bow wave start earlier.\n\nThe addition of a bulb to a ship's hull increases its overall wetted area. As wetted area increases, so does drag. At greater speeds and in larger vessels it is the bow wave that is the greatest force impeding the vessel's forward motion through the water. For a vessel that is small or spends a great deal of its time at a slow speed, the increase in drag will not be offset by the benefit in damping bow wave generation. As the wave counter effects are only significant at the vessel's higher range of speed, bulbous bows are not energy efficient when the vessel cruises outside of these ranges, specifically at lower speeds.\n\nSome explanations note that water flowing over the bulb depresses the ship's bow and keeps it trimmed better. Since many of the bulbous bows are symmetrical or even angled upwards, which would tend to raise the bow further, the improved trim is likely a by-product of the reduced wave action as the vessel approaches hull speed, rather than direct action of water flow over the bulb.\n\nThe bulbous bow concept is credited to David W. Taylor, a naval architect who served as Chief Constructor of the United States Navy during the First World War and who used the concept (known as a bulbous forefoot) in his design of the , which entered service in 1910. The bow design did not initially enjoy wide acceptance, although it was used in the to great success after the two ships of that class which survived the Washington Naval Treaty were converted to aircraft carriers. This lack of acceptance changed in the 1920s, with Germany's launching of and . They were referred to as Germany's North Atlantic greyhounds, two large commercial ocean liners that competed for the trans-Atlantic passenger trade. Both ships won the coveted Blue Riband, \"Bremen\" in 1929 with a crossing speed of , and \"Europa\" surpassing her in 1930 with a crossing speed of 27.91 knots.\n\nThe design began to be incorporated elsewhere, as seen in the U.S. built \"SS Malolo\", \"SS President Hoover\" and \"SS President Coolidge\" passenger liners launched in the late 1920s and early 1930s. Still the idea was largely viewed as experimental by many ship builders and owners.\n\nIn 1935 the French superliner was designed by Vladimir Yurkevich combining a bulbous forefoot with massive size and a redesigned hull shape. She was able to achieve speeds in excess of 30 knots (56 km/h). \"Normandie\" was famous for many things, including her clean entry into the water and markedly reduced bow wave. \"Normandie\"s great rival, the British liner , achieved equivalent speeds using traditional stem and hull design. However, a crucial difference was that \"Normandie\" achieved these speeds with approximately thirty percent less engine power than \"Queen Mary\" and a corresponding reduction in fuel use.\n\nBulbous bow designs were also developed and used by the Imperial Japanese Navy. A modest bulbous bow was used in a number of their ship designs, including the light cruiser and the carriers and . A far more radical bulbous bow design solution was incorporated into their massively large , including , and the aircraft carrier .\n\nThe modern bulbous bow was developed by Dr. Takao Inui at the University of Tokyo during the 1950s and 1960s, independently of Japanese naval research. Inui based his research on earlier findings by scientists made after Taylor discovered that ships fitted with a bulbous forefoot exhibited substantially lower drag characteristics than predicted. The bulbous bow concept was first definitively studied by Thomas Havelock, Cyril Wigley and Georg Weinblum, including Wigley's 1936 work \"The Theory of the Bulbous Bow and its Practical Application\" which examined the issues of wave production and damping. Inui's initial scientific papers on the effect of bulbous bow on wavemaking resistance were collected into a report published by the University of Michigan in 1960. His work came to widespread attention with his paper \"Wavemaking Resistance of Ships\" published by the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers in 1962. It was eventually found that drag could be reduced by about five percent. Experimentation and refinement slowly improved the geometry of bulbous bows, but they were not widely exploited until computer modelling techniques enabled researchers at the University of British Columbia to increase their performance to a practical level in the 1980s.\n\nSome warships specialized for anti-submarine warfare use a specifically shaped bulb as a hydrodynamic housing for a sonar transducer, which resembles a bulbous bow but the hydrodynamic effects are only incidental. The transducer is a large cylinder or sphere composed of a phased array of acoustic transducers. The entire compartment is flooded with water and the acoustic window of the bulb is made of fiber-reinforced plastic or another material (such as rubber) transparent to underwater sounds as they are transmitted and received. The transducer bulb places the sonar equipment at the greatest possible distance from the ship's own noise-generating propulsion system.\n"}
{"id": "3430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3430", "title": "Bulletin board system", "text": "Bulletin board system\n\nA bulletin board system or BBS (also called \"Computer Bulletin Board Service\", \"CBBS\") is a computer server running software that allows users to connect to the system using a terminal program. Once logged in, the user can perform functions such as uploading and downloading software and data, reading news and bulletins, and exchanging messages with other users through public message boards and sometimes via direct chatting. In the middle to late 1980s, message aggregators and bulk store-and-forward'ers sprung up to provide services such as FidoNet, which is similar to email.\n\nMany BBSes also offer online games in which users can compete with each other. BBSes with multiple phone lines often provide chat rooms, allowing users to interact with each other. Bulletin board systems were in many ways a precursor to the modern form of the World Wide Web, social networks, and other aspects of the Internet. Low-cost, high-performance modems drove the use of online services and BBSes through the early 1990s. \"Infoworld\" estimated that there were 60,000 BBSes serving 17 million users in the United States alone in 1994, a collective market much larger than major online services such as CompuServe.\n\nThe introduction of inexpensive dial-up internet service and the Mosaic web browser offered ease of use and global access that BBS and online systems did not provide, and led to a rapid crash in the market starting in 1994. Over the next year, many of the leading BBS software providers went bankrupt and tens of thousands of BBSes disappeared. Today, BBSing survives largely as a nostalgic hobby in most parts of the world, but it is still an extremely popular form of communication for Taiwanese youth (see PTT Bulletin Board System). Most surviving BBSes are accessible over Telnet and typically offer free email accounts, FTP services, IRC and all the protocols commonly used on the Internet. Some offer access through packet switched networks or packet radio connections.\n\nA precursor to the public bulletin board system was Community Memory, started in August 1973 in Berkeley, California. Useful microcomputers did not exist at that time, and modems were both expensive and slow. Community Memory therefore ran on a mainframe computer and was accessed through terminals located in several San Francisco Bay Area neighborhoods. The poor quality of the original modem connecting the terminals to the mainframe prompted a user to invent the Pennywhistle modem, whose design was highly influential in the mid-1970s.\n\nCommunity Memory allowed the user to type messages into a computer terminal after inserting a coin, and offered a \"pure\" bulletin board experience with public messages only (no email or other features). It did offer the ability to tag messages with keywords, which the user could use in searches. The system acted primarily in the form of a buy and sell system with the tags taking the place of the more traditional classifications. But users found ways to express themselves outside these bounds, and the system spontaneously created stories, poetry and other forms of communications. Unfortunately, the system was expensive to operate, and when their host machine became unavailable and a new one could not be found, the system closed in January 1975.\n\nSimilar functionality was available to most mainframe users, which might be considered a sort of ultra-local BBS when used in this fashion. Commercial systems, expressly intended to offer these features to the public, became available in the late 1970s and formed the online service market that lasted into the 1990s. One particularly influential example was PLATO, which had thousands of users by the late 1970s, many of whom used the messaging and chat room features of the system in the same way that would become common on BBSes.\n\nEarly modems were generally very simple devices using acoustic couplers to handle telephone operation. The user would first pick up the phone, dial a number, then press the handset into rubber cups on the top of the modem. Disconnecting at the end of a call required the user to pick up the handset and return it to the phone. Examples of direct-connecting modems did exist, and these often allowed the host computer to send it commands to answer or hang up calls, but these were very expensive devices used by large banks and similar companies.\n\nWith the introduction of microcomputers with expansion slots, like the S-100 bus machines and Apple II, it became possible for the modem to communicate instructions and data on separate lines. A number of modems of this sort were available by the late 1970s. This made the BBS possible for the first time, as it allowed software on the computer to pick up an incoming call, communicate with the user, and then hang up the call when the user logged off.\n\nThe first public dial-up BBS was developed by Ward Christensen and Randy Suess. According to an early interview, when Chicago was snowed under during the Great Blizzard of 1978, the two began preliminary work on the Computerized Bulletin Board System, or CBBS. The system came into existence largely through a fortuitous combination of Christensen having a spare S-100 bus computer and an early Hayes internal modem, and Suess's insistence that the machine be placed at his house in Chicago where it would be a local phone call to millions of users. Christensen patterned the system after the cork board his local computer club used to post information like \"need a ride\". CBBS officially went online on 16 February 1978. CBBS, which kept a count of callers, reportedly connected 253,301 callers before it was finally retired.\n\nA key innovation required for the popularization of the BBS was the Hayes Smartmodem. Internal modems like the ones used by CBBS and similar early systems were usable, but generally expensive due to the manufacturer having to make a different modem for every computer platform they wanted to target. They were also limited to those computers with internal expansion, and could not be used with other useful platforms like video terminals. External modems were available for these platforms but required the phone to be dialed using a conventional handset, making them unable to accept incoming calls without manual intervention. Internal modems could be software controlled to perform both outbound and inbound calls, but external modems had only the data pins to communicate with the host system.\n\nHayes' solution to the problem was to use a small microcontroller to implement a system that examined the data flowing into the modem from the host computer, watching for certain command strings. This allowed commands to be sent to and from the modem using the same data pins as all the rest of the data, meaning it would work on any system that could support even the most basic modems. The Smartmodem could pick up the phone, dial numbers, and hang up again, all without any operator intervention. The Smartmodem was not necessary for BBS use but made overall operation dramatically simpler. It also improved usability for the caller, as most terminal software allowed different phone numbers to be stored and dialed on command, allowing the user to easily connect to a series of systems.\n\nThe introduction of the Smartmodem led to the first real wave of BBS systems. Limited in both speed and storage capacity, these systems were normally dedicated solely to messaging, both private email and public forums. File transfers were painfully slow at these speeds, and file libraries were typically limited to text files containing lists of other BBS systems. These systems attracted a particular type of user who used the BBS as a unique type of communications medium, and when these local systems were crowded from the market in the 1990s, their loss was lamented for many years.\n\nSpeed improved with the introduction of 1200 bit/s modems in the early 1980s, giving way to 2400 bit/s fairly rapidly. The improved performance led to a substantial increase in BBS popularity. Most of the information was displayed using ordinary ASCII text or ANSI art, but a number of systems attempted character-based graphical user interfaces which began to be practical at 2400 bit/s.\n\nThere was a lengthy delay before 9600 bit/s models began to appear on the market. 9600 bit/s was not even established as a strong standard before V.32bis at 14.4 kbit/s took over in the early 1990s. This period also saw the rapid rise in capacity and a dramatic drop in the price of hard drives. By the late 1980s, many BBS systems had significant file libraries, and this gave rise to leeching, users calling BBSes solely for their files. These users would tie up the modem for some time, leaving less time for other users, who got busy signals. The resulting upheaval eliminated many of the pioneering message-centric systems.\n\nThis also gave rise to a new class of BBS systems, dedicated solely to file upload and downloads. These systems charged for access, typically a flat monthly fee, compared to the per-hour fees charged by \"Event Horizons BBS\" and most online services. A host of 3rd party services sprang up to support these systems, offering simple credit card merchant account gateways for the payment of monthly fees, and entire file libraries on compact disk that made initial setup very easy. Early 1990s editions of \"Boardwatch\" were filled with ads for single-click install solutions dedicated to these new sysops. While this gave the market a bad reputation, it also led to its greatest success. During the early 1990s, there were a number of mid-sized software companies dedicated to BBS software, and the number of BBSes in service reached its peak.\n\nTowards the early 1990s, the BBS industry became so popular that it spawned three monthly magazines, \"Boardwatch\", \"BBS Magazine\", and in Asia and Australia, \"Chips 'n Bits Magazine\" which devoted extensive coverage of the software and technology innovations and people behind them, and listings to US and worldwide BBSes. In addition, in the USA, a major monthly magazine, \"Computer Shopper\", carried a list of BBSes along with a brief abstract of each of their offerings.\n\nThrough the late 1980s and early 1990s, there was considerable experimentation with ways to improve the BBS experience from its command-line interface roots. Almost every popular system improved matters somewhat by adding ANSI-based color menus to make reading easier, and most also allowed cursor commands to offer command-line recall and similar features. Another common feature was the use of autocomplete to make menu navigation simpler, a feature that would not re-appear on the web until decades later.\n\nA number of systems also made forays into GUI-based interfaces, either using character graphics sent from the host, or using custom GUI-based terminal systems. The latter initially appeared, unsurprisingly, on the Amiga and Macintosh platform, where TeleFinder and FirstClass became very popular. FirstClass offered a host of features that would be difficult or impossible under a terminal-based solution, including bi-directional information flow and non-blocking operation that allowed the user to exchange files in both directions while continuing to use the message system and chat, all in separate windows. Skypix featured on Amiga a complete markup language. It used a standardized set of icons to indicate mouse driven commands available online and to recognize different filetypes present on BBS storage media. It was capable to transmit data like images, audio files, and audio clips between users linked to same BBS or off-line if BBS was in the circuit of FidoNet organization.\nOn the PC, efforts were more oriented to extensions of the original terminal concept, with the GUI being described in the information on the host. One example was the Remote Imaging Protocol, essentially a picture description system, which remained relatively obscure. Probably the ultimate development of this style of operation was the dynamic page implementation of the University of Southern California BBS (USCBBS) by Susan Biddlecomb, which predated the implementation of the HTML Dynamic web page. A complete Dynamic web page implementation was accomplished using TBBS with a TDBS add-on presenting a complete menu system individually customized for each user.\n\nThe demand for complex ANSI and ASCII screens and larger file transfers taxed available channel capacity, which in turn propelled demand for faster modems. 14.4 kbit/s modems were standard for a number of years while various companies attempted to introduce non-standard systems with higher performance, normally about 19.2 kbit/s. Another delay followed due to a long V.34 standards process before 28.8 kbit/s was released, only to be quickly replaced by 33.6 kbit/s, and then 56 kbit/s.\n\nThese increasing speeds had the side effect of dramatically reducing the noticeable effects of channel efficiency. When modems were slow, considerable effort was put into developing the most efficient protocols and display systems possible. Running a general-purpose protocol like TCP/IP over a 1200 bit/s modem was a painful experience. With 56 kbit/s modems, however, the overhead was so greatly reduced as to be unnoticeable. Dial-up Internet service became widely available in 1994, and a must-have option for any general-use operating system by 1995.\n\nThese developments together resulted in the sudden obsolescence of bulletin board technology in 1995 and the collapse of its supporting market. Technically, Internet service offered an enormous advantage over BBS systems, as a single connection to the user's Internet service provider allowed them to contact services around the world. In comparison, BBS systems relied on a direct point-to-point connection, so even dialing multiple local systems required multiple phone calls. Moreover, Internet protocols allowed that same single connection to be used to contact multiple services at the same time, say download files from an FTP library while checking the weather on a local news web site. In comparison, a connection to a BBS allowed access only to the information on that system.\n\nAccording to the FidoNet Nodelist, BBSes reached their peak usage around 1996, which was the same period that the World Wide Web and AOL became mainstream. BBSes rapidly declined in popularity thereafter, and were replaced by systems using the Internet for connectivity. Some of the larger commercial BBSes, such as MaxMegabyte and ExecPC BBS, evolved into Internet Service Providers.\n\nThe website \"textfiles.com\" serves as an archive that documents the history of the BBS. The historical BBS list on \"textfiles.com\" contains over 105,000 BBSes that have existed over a span of 20 years in North America alone. The owner of \"textfiles.com\", Jason Scott, also produced \"\", a DVD film that chronicles the history of the BBS and features interviews with well-known people (mostly from the United States) from the heyday BBS era. As of 2016 an estimated 100 to 150 are still active, mostly for nostalgia.\n\nUnlike modern websites and online services that are typically hosted by third-party companies in commercial data centers, BBS computers (especially for smaller boards) were typically operated from the SysOp's home. As such, access could be unreliable, and in many cases, only one user could be on the system at a time. Only larger BBSes with multiple phone lines using specialized hardware, multitasking software, or a LAN connecting multiple computers, could host multiple simultaneous users.\n\nThe first BBSes used homebrew software, quite often written or customized by the SysOps themselves, running on early S-100 bus microcomputer systems such as the Altair 8800, IMSAI 8080 and Cromemco under the CP/M operating system. Soon after, BBS software was being written for all of the major home computer systems of the late 1970s era – the Apple II, Atari 8-bit family, Commodore and TRS-80 being some of the most popular.\n\nA few years later, in 1981, IBM introduced the first DOS based IBM PC, and due to the overwhelming popularity of PCs and their clones, DOS soon became the operating system on which the majority of BBS programs were run. RBBS-PC, ported over from the CP/M world, and \"Fido\" BBS, created by Tom Jennings (who later founded FidoNet) were the first notable DOS BBS programs. Many successful commercial BBS programs were developed for DOS, such as PCBoard BBS, RemoteAccess BBS, and Wildcat! BBS. Some popular freeware BBS programs for DOS included Telegard BBS and Renegade BBS, which both had early origins from leaked WWIV BBS source code. There were several dozen other BBS programs developed over the DOS era, and many were released under the shareware concept, while some were released as freeware including iniquity.\n\nBBS systems on other systems remained popular, especially home computers, largely because they catered to the audience of users running those machines. The ubiquitous Commodore 64 (introduced in 1982) was a common platform in the 1980s. Popular commercial BBS programs were Blue Board, Ivory BBS, Color64 and CNet 64. In the early 1990s, a small number of BBSes were also running on the Commodore Amiga. Popular BBS software for the Amiga were ABBS, Amiexpress, C-Net, StormforceBBS, Infinity and Tempest. There was also a small faction of devoted Atari BBSes that used the Atari 800, then the 800XL, and eventually the 1040ST. The earlier machines generally lacked hard drive capabilities, which limited them primarily to messaging.\n\nMS-DOS continued to be the most popular operating system for BBS use up until the mid-1990s, and in the early years, most multi-node BBSes were running under a DOS based multitasker such as DESQview or consisted of multiple computers connected via a LAN. In the late 1980s, a handful of BBS developers implemented multitasking communications routines inside their software, allowing multiple phone lines and users to connect to the same BBS computer. These included Galacticomm's MajorBBS (later WorldGroup), eSoft The Bread Board System (TBBS), and Falken. Other popular BBS's were Maximus and Opus, with some associated applications such as BinkleyTerm being based on characters from the Berkley Breathed cartoon strip of Bloom County. Though most BBS software had been written in BASIC or Pascal (with some low-level routines written in assembly language), the C language was starting to gain popularity.\n\nBy 1995, many of the DOS-based BBSes had begun switching to modern multitasking operating systems, such as OS/2, Windows 95, and Linux. One of the first graphics based BBS applications was Excalibur BBS with a low bandwidth applications that required its own client for efficiency. This led to one of the earliest implementations of Electronic Commerce in 1996 with replication of partner stores around the globe. TCP/IP networking allowed most of the remaining BBSes to evolve and include Internet hosting capabilities. Recent BBS software, such as Synchronet, Mystic BBS, EleBBS, DOC or Wildcat! BBS, provide access using the Telnet protocol rather than dialup, or by using legacy DOS-based BBS software with a FOSSIL-to-Telnet redirector such as NetFoss.\n\nBBSes were generally text-based, rather than GUI-based, and early BBSes conversed using the simple ASCII character set. However, some home computer manufacturers extended the ASCII character set to take advantage of the advanced color and graphics capabilities of their systems. BBS software authors included these extended character sets in their software, and terminal program authors included the ability to display them when a compatible system was called. Atari's native character set was known as ATASCII, while most Commodore BBSes supported PETSCII. PETSCII was also supported by the nationwide online service Quantum Link.\n\nThe use of these custom character sets was generally incompatible between manufacturers. Unless a caller was using terminal emulation software written for, and running on, the same type of system as the BBS, the session would simply fall back to simple ASCII output. For example, a Commodore 64 user calling an Atari BBS would use ASCII rather than the machine's native character set. As time progressed, most terminal programs began using the ANSI standard, but could use their native character set if it was available.\n\nCOCONET, a BBS system made by Coconut Computing, Inc., was released in 1988 and only supported a GUI (no text interface was initially available but eventually became available around 1990), and worked in EGA/VGA graphics mode, which made it stand out from the text-based BBS systems. COCONET's bitmap and vector graphics and support for multiple type fonts were inspired by the PLATO system, and the graphics capabilities were based on what was available in the Borland BGI graphics library. A competing approach called Remote Imaging Protocol (RIP) emerged and was promoted by Telegrafix in the early to mid-1990s but it never became widespread. An industry standard technology called NAPLPS was also considered, and although it became the underlying graphics technology behind the Prodigy service, it never gained popularity in the BBS market. There were several GUI-based BBSes on the Apple Macintosh platform, including TeleFinder and FirstClass, but these remained widely used only in the Mac market.\n\nIn the UK, the BBC Micro based OBBS software, available from Pace for use with their modems, optionally allowed for color and graphics using the Teletext based graphics mode available on that platform. Other systems used the Viewdata protocols made popular in the UK by British Telecom's Prestel service, and the on-line magazine Micronet 800 whom were busy giving away modems with their subscriptions.\n\nThe most popular form of online graphics was ANSI art, which combined the IBM Extended ASCII character set's blocks and symbols with ANSI escape sequences to allow changing colors on demand, provide cursor control and screen formatting, and even basic musical tones. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, most BBSes used ANSI to make elaborate welcome screens, and colorized menus, and thus, ANSI support was a sought-after feature in terminal client programs. The development of ANSI art became so popular that it spawned an entire BBS \"artscene\" subculture devoted to it.\nThe Amiga \"Skyline BBS\" software was the first in 1987 featuring a script markup language communication protocol called Skypix which was capable of giving the user a complete graphical interface, featuring rich graphic content, changeable fonts, mouse-controlled actions, animations and sound.\n\nToday, most BBS software that is still actively supported, such as Worldgroup, Wildcat! BBS and Citadel/UX, is Web-enabled, and the traditional text interface has been replaced (or operates concurrently) with a Web-based user interface. For those more nostalgic for the true BBS experience, one can use NetSerial (Windows) or DOSBox (Windows/*nix) to redirect DOS COM port software to telnet, allowing them to connect to Telnet BBSes using 1980s and 1990s era modem terminal emulation software, like Telix, Terminate, Qmodem and Procomm Plus. Modern 32-bit terminal emulators such as mTelnet and SyncTerm include native telnet support.\n\nSince most early BBSes were run by computer hobbyists, they were typically technical in topic, with user communities revolving around hardware and software discussions.\n\nAs the BBS phenomenon grew, so did the popularity of special interest boards. Bulletin Board Systems could be found for almost every hobby and interest. Popular interests included politics, religion, music, dating, and alternative lifestyles. Many SysOps also adopted a theme in which they customized their entire BBS (welcome screens, prompts, menus, and so on) to reflect that theme. Common themes were based on fantasy, or were intended to give the user the illusion of being somewhere else, such as in a sanatorium, wizard's castle, or on a pirate ship.\n\nIn the early days, the file download library consisted of files that the SysOps obtained themselves from other BBSes and friends. Many BBSes inspected every file uploaded to their public file download library to ensure that the material did not violate copyright law. As time went on, shareware CD-ROMs were sold with up to thousands of files on each CD-ROM. Small BBSes copied each file individually to their hard drive. Some systems used a CD-ROM drive to make the files available. Advanced BBSes used Multiple CD-ROM disc changer units that switched 6 CD-ROM disks on demand for the caller(s). Large systems used all 26 DOS drive letters with multi-disk changers housing tens of thousands of copyright-free shareware or freeware files available to all callers. These BBSes were generally more family friendly, avoiding the seedier side of BBSes. Access to these systems varied from single to multiple modem lines with some requiring little or no confirmed registration.\n\nSome BBSes, called elite, WaReZ or pirate boards, were exclusively used for distributing cracked software, phreaking, and other questionable or unlawful content. These BBSes often had multiple modems and phone lines, allowing several users to upload and download files at once. Most elite BBSes used some form of new user verification, where new users would have to apply for membership and attempt to prove that they were not a law enforcement officer or a \"lamer.\" The largest elite boards accepted users by invitation only. Elite boards also spawned their own subculture and gave rise to the slang known today as leetspeak.\n\nAnother common type of board was the \"support BBS\" run by a manufacturer of computer products or software. These boards were dedicated to supporting users of the company's products with question and answer forums, news and updates, and downloads. Most of them were not a free call. Today, these services have moved to the web.\n\nSome general purpose Bulletin Board Systems had special levels of access that were given to those who paid extra money, uploaded useful files or knew the SysOp personally. These specialty and pay BBSes usually had something unique to offer their users, such as large file libraries, warez, pornography, chat rooms or Internet access.\n\nPay BBSes such as The WELL and Echo NYC (now Internet forums rather than dial-up), ExecPC, PsudNetwork and MindVox (which folded in 1996) were admired for their tight-knit communities and quality discussion forums. However, many free BBSes also maintained close knit communities, and some even had annual or bi-annual events where users would travel great distances to meet face-to-face with their on-line friends. These events were especially popular with BBSes that offered chat rooms.\n\nSome of the BBSes that provided access to illegal content faced opposition. On July 12, 1985, in conjunction with a credit card fraud investigation, the Middlesex County, New Jersey Sheriff's department raided and seized The Private Sector BBS, which was the official BBS for grey hat hacker quarterly 2600 Magazine at the time. The notorious Rusty n Edie's BBS, in Boardman, Ohio, was raided by the FBI in January 1993 for trading unlicensed software, and later sued by Playboy for copyright infringement in November 1997. In Flint, Michigan, a 21-year-old man was charged with distributing child pornography through his BBS in March 1996.\n\nMost early BBSes operated as individual systems. Information contained on that BBS never left the system, and users would only interact with the information and user community on that BBS alone. However, as BBSes became more widespread, there evolved a desire to connect systems together to share messages and files with distant systems and users. The largest such network was FidoNet.\n\nAs is it was prohibitively expensive for the hobbyist SysOp to have a dedicated connection to another system, FidoNet was developed as a store and forward network. Private email (Netmail), public message boards (Echomail) and eventually even file attachments on a FidoNet-capable BBS would be bundled into one or more archive files over a set time interval. These archive files were then compressed with ARC or ZIP and forwarded to (or polled by) another nearby node or hub via a dialup Xmodem session. Messages would be relayed around various FidoNet hubs until they were eventually delivered to their destination. The hierarchy of FidoNet BBS nodes, hubs, and zones was maintained in a routing table called a Nodelist. Some larger BBSes or regional FidoNet hubs would make several transfers per day, some even to multiple nodes or hubs, and as such, transfers usually occurred at night or early morning when toll rates were lowest. In Fido's heyday, sending a Netmail message to a user on a distant FidoNet node, or participating in an Echomail discussion could take days, especially if any FidoNet nodes or hubs in the message's route only made one transfer call per day.\n\nFidoNet was platform-independent and would work with any BBS that was written to use it. BBSes that did not have integrated FidoNet capability could usually add it using an external FidoNet front-end mailer such as FrontDoor, BinkleyTerm, InterMail or D'Bridge, and a mail processor such as FastEcho or Squish. The front-end mailer would conduct the periodic FidoNet transfers, while the mail processor would usually run just before and just after the mailer ran. This program would scan for and pack up new outgoing messages, and then unpack, sort and \"toss\" the incoming messages into a BBS user's local email box or into the BBS's local message bases reserved for Echomail. As such, these mail processors were commonly called \"scanner/tosser/packers.\"\n\nMany other BBS networks followed the example of FidoNet, using the same standards and the same software. These were called FidoNet Technology Networks (FTNs). They were usually smaller and targeted at selected audiences. Some networks used QWK doors, and others such as RelayNet (RIME) and WWIVnet used non-Fido software and standards.\n\nBefore commercial Internet access became common, these networks of BBSes provided regional and international e-mail and message bases. Some even provided gateways, such as UFGATE, by which members could send/receive e-mail to/from the Internet via UUCP, and many FidoNet discussion groups were shared via gateway to Usenet. Elaborate schemes allowed users to download binary files, search gopherspace, and interact with distant programs, all using plain text e-mail.\n\nAs the volume of FidoNet Mail increased and newsgroups from the early days of the Internet became available, satellite data downstream services became viable for larger systems. The satellite service provided access to FidoNet and Usenet newsgroups in large volumes at a reasonable fee. By connecting a small dish & receiver, a constant downstream of thousands of FidoNet and Usenet newsgroups could be received. The local BBS only needed to upload new outgoing messages via the modem network back to the satellite service. This method drastically reduced phone data transfers while dramatically increasing the number of message forums.\n\nFidoNet is still in use today, though in a much smaller form, and many Echomail groups are still shared with Usenet via FidoNet to Usenet gateways. Widespread abuse of Usenet with spam and pornography has led to many of these FidoNet gateways to cease operation completely.\n\nMuch of the shareware movement was started via user distribution of software through BBSes. A notable example was Phil Katz's PKARC (and later PKZIP, using the same \".zip\" algorithm that WinZip and other popular archivers now use); also other concepts of software distribution like freeware, postcardware like JPEGview and donationware like Red Ryder for the Macintosh first appeared on BBS sites. Doom from id Software and nearly all Apogee Software games were distributed as shareware (Apogee is, in fact, credited for adding an order form to a shareware demo). The Internet has largely erased the distinction of shareware – most users now download the software directly from the developer's website rather than receiving it from another BBS user 'sharing' it. Today shareware is commonly used to mean electronically distributed software from a small developer.\n\nMany commercial BBS software companies that continue to support their old BBS software products switched to the shareware model or made it entirely free. Some companies were able to make the move to the Internet and provide commercial products with BBS capabilities.\n\nA classic BBS had:\n\nThe BBS software usually provides:\n\n"}
{"id": "7799719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7799719", "title": "Chancery hand", "text": "Chancery hand\n\nThe term \"chancery hand\" can refer to either of two very different styles of historical handwriting.\n\nA chancery hand was at first a form of handwriting for business transactions that developed in the Lateran chancery (the \"Cancelleria Apostolica\") of the thirteenth century, then spread to France, notably through the Avignon Papacy, and to England after 1350. This early \"chancery hand\" is a form of blackletter. Versions of it were adopted by royal and ducal chanceries, which were often staffed by clerics who had taken minor orders.\n\nA later cursive \"chancery hand\", also developed in the Vatican but based on humanist minuscule (itself based on Carolingian minuscule), was introduced in the 1420s by Niccolò Niccoli; it was the manuscript origin of the typefaces we recognize as \"italic\".\n\nIn medieval England each of the royal departments tended to develop its own characteristic hand: the chancery hand used in the royal chancery at Westminster from the mid-century was employed for writs, enrolments, patents, and engrossing of royal letters; its use continued for the enrollment of acts of Parliament until 1836.\n\nThe English chancery hand was already an arcane specialty by the time of the Restoration. Samuel Pepys recorded (Thursday 12 July 1660):\nThe later \"cancelleresca corsiva\" (\"cursive chancery hand\"), often called \"Chancery Cursive\", developed from Humanist minuscule, itself the progeny of Carolingian minuscule, in the mid-fifteenth century as \"a cursive form of the humanistic minuscule\". In England and France at the time it was known as \"Italic\". In English it is often changed in spelling to \"cancellaresca corsiva\". The Italian scribe Ludovico Vicentino degli Arrighi's 1522 influential pamphlet on handwriting called \"La Operina\" was the first book on writing the italic script known as cursive chancery hand. He was a scribe in the Papal Curia, which had refined cursive chancery hand in its infancy during the latter half of the fifteenth century. While considered a cursive, this \"papal hand\" was \"strongly disciplined in form, regular in movement and slightly, if at all, inclined from the perpendicular.\"\n\nIn cursive chancery hand the pen was held slanted at a forty-five-degree angle for speed, but it could also produce beautiful calligraphic writing. In fifteenth-century Italy the cursive chancery hand was employed in correspondence, everyday business, and documents of minor formal importance.\n\nIt was adapted as the model for the italic typeface developed by Aldus Manutius in Venice, from punches cut by Francesco Griffo and first used in 1500 for the small portable series of inexpensive classics that issued from the Aldine press.\n\nIn sixteenth-century England it became known as the \"Italian hand\" to distinguish it from the angular, cramped, Blackletter-derived English chancery hand which had been developed earlier and independently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50030038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50030038", "title": "Covering cherub", "text": "Covering cherub\n\nCovering cherub (in literary usage) is the obstructing presence for the artist of the inherited tradition, and cultural predecessors, with which they are faced.\n\nFound originally in Ezekiel, the covering cherub was adapted for use by (among others) both Milton and William Blake. In the Blakean vision, the covering cherub was a composite but always negative figure of truth's guardian turned destructive, of a cruel and hardened Selfhood; and it was from Blake that in 1967 Harold Bloom derived his concept of the covering cherub as a literary/cultural barrier. Apparently, a waking nightmare he experienced gave rise first to his poem on the subject, \"The Covering Cherub\", and eventually to his book \"The Anxiety of Influence\".\n\nFor Bloom, \"the Covering Cherub then is a demon of continuity...cultural history, the dead poets, the embarrassments of a tradition grown too wealthy to need anything more\". Bloom considered the artistic struggle in Freudian terms, as a filial contest with a father figure carrying cultural authority – an Oedipal conflict with a superego either originally modelled on a cultural hero or influenced subsequently by such an ideal model.\n\nThough initially referencing a patriarchal father/son interaction, the concept of the covering cherub has also been applied to works by women writers such as Angela Carter and Virginia Woolf.\n\nCritics have seen Bloom's central image as too open-ended to serve as analyical tool, a vague series of analogies only tenuously working as Bloom desired.\n\n"}
{"id": "5853244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5853244", "title": "Dagfinn Føllesdal", "text": "Dagfinn Føllesdal\n\nDagfinn Føllesdal (born 22 June 1932) is a Norwegian-American philosopher. He is the Clarence Irving Lewis Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Stanford University, and professor emeritus at the University of Oslo.\n\nFøllesdal was born in Askim. After earning his bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Oslo, he attended Harvard University and earned his Ph.D. in 1961 under Willard Van Orman Quine. He taught at Harvard University from 1961 to 1964, and began teaching at Stanford University in 1968.\n\nFøllesdal is a member of the Norwegian Academy for Language and Literature, the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nHe resides at Tanum. He is a practicing Roman Catholic. He regularly participates in the sport of Orienteering.\n\nFøllesdal has written extensively on topics relating to the philosophy of language, phenomenology, existentialism, and hermeneutics. He was a pupil of Quine and is among the leading experts on the indeterminacy of translation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "403720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403720", "title": "Digraphs and trigraphs", "text": "Digraphs and trigraphs\n\nIn computer programming, digraphs and trigraphs are sequences of two and three characters, respectively, that appear in source code and, according to a programming language's specification, should be treated as if they were single characters.\n\nVarious reasons exist for using digraphs and trigraphs: keyboards may not have keys to cover the entire character set of the language, input of special characters may be difficult, text editors may reserve some characters for special use and so on. Trigraphs might also be used for some EBCDIC code pages that lack characters such as codice_1 and codice_2.\n\nThe basic character set of the C programming language is a subset of the ASCII character set that includes nine characters which lie outside the ISO 646 invariant character set. The ANSI C committee invented trigraphs as a way of entering source code using keyboards that support any version of the ISO 646 character set.\n\nTrigraphs are not commonly encountered outside compiler test suites. Some compilers support an option to turn recognition of trigraphs off, or disable trigraphs by default and require an option to turn them on. Some can issue warnings when they encounter trigraphs in source files. Borland supplied a separate program, the trigraph preprocessor (codice_3), to be used only when trigraph processing is desired (the rationale was to maximise speed of compilation).\n\nDifferent systems define different sets of digraphs and trigraphs, as described below.\n\nEarly versions of ALGOL predated the standardized ASCII and EBCDIC character sets, and were typically implemented using a manufacturer-specific six-bit character code. A number of ALGOL operations either lacked codepoints in the available character set or were not supported by peripherals, leading to a number of substitutions including codice_4 for codice_5 (assignment) and codice_6 for codice_7 (greater than or equal).\n\nThe Pascal programming language supports digraphs codice_8, codice_9, codice_10 and codice_11 for codice_12, codice_13, codice_1 and codice_2 respectively. Unlike all other cases mentioned here, codice_10 and codice_11 were and still are in wide use. However, many compilers treat them as a different type of commenting block rather than as actual digraphs, that is, a comment started with codice_10 cannot be closed with codice_2 and vice versa.\n\nThe J programming language is a descendant of APL but uses the ASCII character set rather than APL symbols. Because the printable range of ASCII is smaller than APL's specialized set of symbols, codice_20 (dot) and codice_21 (colon) characters are used to inflect ASCII symbols, effectively interpreting unigraphs, digraphs or rarely trigraphs as standalone \"symbols\".\n\nUnlike the use of digraphs and trigraphs in C and C++, there are no single-character equivalents to these in J.\n\nThe C preprocessor replaces all occurrences of the following nine trigraph sequences by their single-character equivalents before any other processing.\n\nA programmer may want to place two question marks together yet not have the compiler treat them as introducing a trigraph. The C grammar does not permit two consecutive codice_22 tokens, so the only places in a C file where two question marks in a row may be used are in multi-character constants, string literals, and comments. This is particularly a problem for the classic Mac OS, where the constant codice_23 may be used as a file type or creator. To safely place two consecutive question marks within a string literal, the programmer can use string concatenation codice_24 or an escape sequence codice_25.\n\ncodice_26 is not itself a trigraph sequence, but when followed by a character such as codice_27 it will be interpreted as codice_22 + codice_29, as in the example below which has 16 codice_22s before the codice_31.\n\nThe codice_32 trigraph can be used to introduce an escaped newline for line splicing; this must be taken into account for correct and efficient handling of trigraphs within the preprocessor. It can also cause surprises, particularly within comments. For example:\n\nwhich is a single logical comment line (used in C++ and C99), and\n\nwhich is a correctly formed block comment.\n\nIn 1994, a normative amendment to the C standard, included in C99, supplied digraphs as more readable alternatives to five of the trigraphs. They are listed in the table on the right.\n\nUnlike trigraphs, digraphs are handled during tokenization, and any digraph must always represent a full token by itself, or compose the token codice_33 replacing the preprocessor concatenation token codice_34. If a digraph sequence occurs inside another token, for example a quoted string, or a character constant, it will not be replaced.\n\nC++ (through C++14, see below) behaves like C, including the C99 additions, but with additional tokens listed in the table.\n\nAs a note, codice_33 is treated as a single token, rather than two occurrences of codice_36.\n\nThe C++ Standard makes this comment with regards to the term \"digraph\":\n\nTrigraphs were proposed for deprecation in C++0x, which was released as C++11. This was opposed by IBM, speaking on behalf of itself and other users of C++, and as a result trigraphs were retained in C++0x. Trigraphs were then proposed again for removal (not only deprecation) in C++17. This passed a committee vote, and trigraphs (but not the additional tokens) are removed from C++17 despite the opposition from IBM. Existing code that uses trigraphs can be supported by translating from the source files (parsing trigraphs) to the basic source character set that does not include trigraphs.\n\nHewlett-Packard calculators supporting the RPL language and input method provide support for a large number of trigraphs (also called \"TIO codes\") to reliably transcribe non-seven-bit ASCII characters of the calculators' extended character set on foreign platforms, and to ease keyboard input without using the application. The first character of all TIO codes is a codice_37, followed by two other ASCII characters vaguely resembling the glyph to be substituted. All other characters can be entered using the special codice_38 TIO code syntax with nnn being a three-digit decimal number (with leading zeros if necessary) of the corresponding code point (thereby formally representing a \"tetragraph\").\n\nThe Vim text editor supports digraphs for actual entry of text characters, following . The entry of digraphs is bound to by default. The list of all possible digraphs in Vim can be displayed by typing .\n\nGNU Screen has a digraph command, bound to by default.\n\nLotus 1-2-3 for DOS uses as compose key to allow easier input of many special characters of the Lotus International Character Set (LICS) and Lotus Multi-Byte Character Set (LMBCS).\n\n"}
{"id": "38396442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38396442", "title": "Eeltsje Boates Folkertsma", "text": "Eeltsje Boates Folkertsma\n\nEeltsje Boates Folkertsma (13 November 1893, Ferwert – 1 January 1968, Franeker) was a West Frisian language writer and a Protestant skilled as a translator. He worked with Geart Aeilco Wumkes in translating the Old Testament (West Frisian:\"Alde Testamint\") in 1943.\n\nThe major work was carried out by Wumkes with the translation of the Bible in West Frisian with the New Testament (West Frisian: \"Nije Testamint\") published in 1933 and the Old Testament (West Frisian: \"Alde Testamint\") in 1943. The complete Bible was published in 1943 (West Frisian: \"Bibel\").\n\n"}
{"id": "632001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632001", "title": "Eirug Wyn", "text": "Eirug Wyn\n\nEirug Wyn (11 December 1950 – 25 April 2004) was a Welsh satirical novelist who wrote in the Welsh language. He was born Eirug Price Wynne, in Llanbrynmair in Mid Wales, and educated at Brynrefail School and Trinity College, Carmarthen. He subsequently made his home in Y Groeslon in North Wales.\n\nAt the age of 17 he appeared in court accused of not placing an L-plate on the back of his car, as was required in the United Kingdom for anyone learning to drive (the L is the initial letter of \"learner\"). Instead, he had placed a similar plate bearing the letter \"D\", for \"\", the Welsh equivalent. The eventual result of this case was to make D-plates equivalent to L-plates throughout Wales.\n\nHe wrote 15 books in the twelve years before his death, and won several prizes for his work at Eisteddfodau, including the prose medal in 1998 and 2000 and the Daniel Owen medal for novelists in 1994 and 2002. He also ran a bookshop in Caernarfon, wrote a column for the \"Western Mail\", and edited \"Lol!\", a satirical magazine. His last book was entitled \"\" (\"The Man at the Back Without a Moustache\"—).\n\nHe died of myeloma on 25 April 2004, at the age of 53.\n"}
{"id": "52733333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52733333", "title": "Ena Lucía Portela", "text": "Ena Lucía Portela\n\nEna Lucía Portela (born 19 December 1972) is a Cuban novelist, essayist, and writer of short stories. She focuses on lesbian subjects.\n\nEna Lucía Portela was born in Havana, 19 December 1972. She graduated from the University of Havana with a degree in Classical Languages and Literature. Part of the generation known as \"novísimos\", her first story, \"La urna y el nombre, un cuento jovial\" was included in the anthology, \"Los últimos serán los primeros\". Her first novel, \"El pájaro: pincel y tinta china\", was awarded the Cirilo Villaverde Prize in 1997 by the National Union of Writers and Artists of Cuba, and was published in 1999 by Ediciones Unión, Cuba, and by Casiopea Publishing House, Spain. In 2002, she was awarded the Premio Jaén for \"One Hundred Bottles\". Her contemporaries include Anna Lidia Vega Serova and Karla Suárez.\n\n"}
{"id": "14584451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14584451", "title": "Environmental data", "text": "Environmental data\n\nEnvironmental data is that which is based on the measurement of environmental pressures, the state of the environment and the impacts on ecosystems. This is usually the \"P\", \"S\" and \"I\" of the DPSIR model where D = Drivers, P = Pressures, S = State, I = Impact, R = Response.\n\nEnvironmental data is typically generated by institutions executing environmental law or doing environmental research. Environment statistics are usually generated by statistical offices and are considered as environmental data, too. Socio-economic data and other statistical data (often the \"D\" and the \"R\" of the DPSIR model) are not considered as environmental data. However, they are to be integrated into comprehensive environmental assessments. Usually this kind of data is held by other institutions than the environmental administration (e.g. National Statistical Offices). The same is true for geo-basisdata, which are not considered as environmental data, but have to be available for environmental policies and environmental information. In recent years, environmental data has become increasingly important to investors, prompting Bloomberg L.P. to begin providing Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data through their terminals.\n\nAll data generated by the execution of environmental law are to be considered as environmental data.\n\nEnvironmental Data Management Systems (EDMS)\nIn order to comply with the above requirements and obligations, certain conditions within them must be met. Typically these will include:\n\nManaging monitoring programmes or schedules, ensuring that the monitoring required in the permit has been done, at the correct locations, for the correct parameters, and at the correct frequency\n- Pre-processing, performing calculations and validating the data for compliance with any alert or reporting levels\n- Generating routine compliance reports for authorities.\nThe management of the above can be complex and time-consuming, leading to an increasing uptake of software systems designed to manage environmental compliance. These are often referred to as 'Environmental Data Management Systems' (EDMS), the selection of which is subject to a number of key criteria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59604", "title": "Epiphenomenon", "text": "Epiphenomenon\n\nAn epiphenomenon (plural: epiphenomena) is a secondary phenomenon that occurs alongside or in parallel to a primary phenomenon. The word has two senses, one that connotes known causation and one that connotes absence of causation or reservation of judgment about it.\n\nThe problem of epiphenomena is often a counterexample to theories of causation and is identified with situations in which an event E is caused by (or, is said to be caused by) an event C, which also causes (or, is said to cause) an event F. For example, take a simplified Lewisian counterfactual analysis of causation that the meaning of propositions about causal relationships between two events A and B can be explained in terms of counterfactual conditionals of the form “if A had not occurred then B would not have occurred”. Suppose that C causes E necessarily and that C has an epiphenomenon F necessarily. We then have that if E had not occurred, then F would not have occurred, either. But then according to the counterfactual analysis of causation, the proposition that there is a causal dependence of F on E is true; that is, on this view, E caused F. Since this is not in line with how we ordinarily speak about causation (we would not say that E caused F), a counterfactual analysis seems to be insufficient.\n\nAn epiphenomenon can be an effect of primary phenomena, but cannot affect a primary phenomenon. In philosophy of mind, epiphenomenalism is the view that mental phenomena are epiphenomena in that they can be caused by physical phenomena, but cannot cause physical phenomena. In strong epiphenomenalism, epiphenomena that are mental phenomena can \"only\" be caused by physical phenomena, not by other mental phenomena. In weak epiphenomenalism, epiphenomena that are mental phenomena can be caused by both physical phenomena and other mental phenomena, but mental phenomena cannot be the cause of any physical phenomenon. \n\nThe physical world operates independently of the mental world in epiphenomenalism; the mental world exists as a derivative parallel world to the physical world, affected by the physical world (and by other epiphenomena in weak epiphenomenalism), but not able to have an effect on the physical world. Instrumentalist versions of epiphenomenalism allow some mental phenomena to cause physical phenomena, when those mental phenomena can be strictly analyzable as summaries of physical phenomena, preserving causality of the physical world to be strictly analyzable by other physical phenomena.\n\nIn the more general use of the word, a causal relationship between the phenomena is implied; the epiphenomenon is a consequence of the primary phenomenon. This is the sense that is related to the noun \"epiphenomenalism\".\n\nHowever, in medicine, this relationship is typically \"not\" implied, and the word is usually used in its second sense: an epiphenomenon may occur independently, and is called an epiphenomenon because it is not the primary phenomenon under study or because only correlation, not causation, is known or suspected. In this sense, saying that X is associated with Y as an epiphenomenon is preserving an acknowledgment that correlation does not imply causation. Signs, symptoms, syndromes (groups of symptoms), and risk factors can all be epiphenomena in this sense. For example, having an increased risk of breast cancer concurrent with taking an antibiotic is an epiphenomenon. It is not the antibiotic that is causing the increased risk, but the increased inflammation associated with the bacterial infection that prompted the taking of an antibiotic. The metaphor of a tree is one way of helping to explain the difference to someone struggling to understand. If the infection is the root of the tree, and the inflammation is the trunk, then the cancer and the antibiotic are two branches; the antibiotic is not the trunk.\n\nAlthough electronics is said to be due to the influence of electrons, the standard approach to the study of electrical phenomena due to James Clerk Maxwell views these particles as secondary:\nAccording to epiphenomenalism, free will having an effect on the physical world is an illusion, as physical phenomena can only be caused by other physical phenomena. In weak epiphenomenalism, there is free will to cause some mental effects, allowing for mental discipline that is directed at other mental phenomena.\n\nWeak versions of behaviorism in psychology admit the existence of mental phenomena but not their meaningful study as causes of observable behavior and view mental phenomena as either epiphenomena or linguistic summaries, instruments to examine objectively observable physical behavior.\n\nIn the field of complex systems, the term epiphenomenon tends to be used interchangeably with \"emergent effect\".\n\nZenon Pylyshyn suggested a propositional model of cognition where people do not conceptualize ideas in images but rather in meaningful relationships. In this theory, epiphenomena refer to images because they are merely products people conceptualize from their actual thought processes. Pylyshyn defends his claim by explaining that we only see images when we envision the form of an object. While visualizing objects or actions is a frequent process in our mind, it does not occur when we are considering the meaning behind an action or the non-visual properties of an object. There are many concepts we simply cannot envision. Additionally, when envisioning an image, it changes based on our preconceived notions, suggesting that semantic relations precede visual images. Unfortunately, the idea of epiphenomena in propositional theory is largely subjective and not falsifiable.\n"}
{"id": "1085084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1085084", "title": "Esthesic and poietic", "text": "Esthesic and poietic\n\nEsthesic (UK \"aesthesic\") and poietic are terms used in semiotics, the study of signs, to describe perceptive and productive levels, processes, and analyses of symbolic forms.\n\nLike 'emic' and 'etic', both words appear to be derived from a suffix, \"-poietic\" (from \"creative\") meaning productive or formative and \"-esthesic\" (from αἴσθησις \"sense\") being receptive or perceptive, in relation to the neutral level. The neutral level is the \"trace\" left behind, the physical or material creation of esthesic and poietic processes.\n\nThus, \"a symbolic form... is not some 'intermediary' in a process of 'communication' that transmits the meaning intended by the author to the audience; it is instead the result of a complex \"process\" of creation (the poietic process) that has to do with the form as well as the content of the work; it is also the point of departure for a complex process of reception (the esthesic process) that \"reconstructs\" a 'message.'\" (Nattiez 1990, p. 17)\n\nNattiez's diagram, following Jean Molino:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34237296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34237296", "title": "Francis Ryck", "text": "Francis Ryck\n\nFrancis Ryck pseudonym Delville Yves (1920–2007) was a French writer.\n\n"}
{"id": "24549456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24549456", "title": "Friso-Saxon dialects", "text": "Friso-Saxon dialects\n\nFriso-Saxon is a collective name for a group of West Germanic dialects found around the North Sea coast of the Netherlands and Germany, in an area historically known as Frisia. Although they are forms of Low German/Low Saxon, these dialects have experienced strong influence from the Frisian languages. Most of the Friso-Saxon dialects are spoken in areas which were historically Frisian-speaking, until Frisian was replaced with Low Saxon in the Late Middle Ages. However, Frisian has remained a substratum since then in the regions concerned. The only exception to this rule is Stellingwarfs, a Low Saxon dialect which has undergone influence especially from West Frisian. Most of the other Friso-Saxon dialects underwent most influence from East Frisian, for example East Frisian Low Saxon and Gronings, while the dialect of Dithmarschen underwent most influence from North Frisian.\n"}
{"id": "3244960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3244960", "title": "Infiltration (medical)", "text": "Infiltration (medical)\n\nInfiltration is the diffusion or accumulation (in a tissue or cells) of foreign substances or in amounts in excess of the normal. The material collected in those tissues or cells is called infiltrate.\n\nAs part of a disease process, infiltration is sometimes used to define the invasion of cancer cells into the underlying matrix or the blood vessels. Similarly, the term may describe the deposition of amyloid protein. During leukocyte extravasation, white blood cells move in response to cytokines from within the blood, into the diseased or infected tissues, usually in the same direction as a chemical gradient, in a process called chemotaxis. The presence of lymphocytes in tissue in greater than normal numbers is likewise called infiltration.\n\nAs part of medical intervention, local anaesthetics may be injected at more than one point so as to infiltrate an area prior to a surgical procedure. However, the term may also apply to unintended iatrogenic leakage of fluids from phlebotomy or intravenous drug delivery procedures, a process also known as extravasation or \"tissuing\".\n\nInfiltration may be caused by:\n\nThe signs and symptoms of infiltration include:\n\nThe use of warm compresses to treat infiltration has become controversial. It has been found that cold compresses may be better for some infiltrated infusates. If the infiltration is recent and the solution was hypertonic or had an increased pH, a cold compress can be applied. A warm compress can be applied if a small amount of non-caustic solution has infiltrated over a long period, or if the solution is isotonic with normal pH.\n\nIt has also been documented that elevation of the infiltrated extremity may be painful for the patient.\n\nTo act in the best interest of the patient, following IV infiltration, consult with the physician for orders regarding compresses and elevation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1695871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695871", "title": "Jakob Sande", "text": "Jakob Sande\n\nJakob Sande (1 December 1906 – 16 March 1967) was a Norwegian writer, poet and folk singer from Dale in Sunnfjord. His parents were Andreas Sande and Ragna Margrete (born Barsnes). He married Solveig Ytterlid in 1942 and they had a daughter, Siri, in 1943.\n\nHe wrote all his texts in nynorsk, one of the two official Norwegian written language forms. His work helped secure a special place on the Norwegian culture-scene for the municipality Fjaler.\n\nSande was born on 1 December 1906 in the village of Dale in Sunnfjord in the county of Sogn og Fjordane, Norway. His parents, Anders (father) and Ragna Margrete (mother), lived at Klokkargarden.\n\nHis career as a writer spanned from 1929 to 1967. He completed his cand philol exam in 1931, but then he went to work at sea as he had been drawn to that life from early on. In 1934 he started to work as a lector in Fredrikstad. After World War II he moved to the same position at Ullern gymnas in Oslo.\n\nIn 1963, he decided to quit teaching and devote his life to writing. That year he received a stipend of 15 000 Norwegian kroner and was promised the same for 1964 and 1965.\n\nHis later years were marked by ill health.\n\nHe died on 16 March 1967 at age 61.\n\nSande's first poems were published in 1929 in a volume titled \"Svarte næter\" (\"Black Nights\"). The book was not welcomed by conservative Christians because of language deemed \"straightforward\" and \"foul\" for that time. Other readers loved the work's sense of humor, irony, and his wonderful descriptions of nature.\n\nHis second book of poems, \"Storm frå vest\", was published in 1931. Conservative Christians criticized this work as well, even though one of the poems, \"Salme,\" was later used in a collection of religious poems.\n\nIn 1933, the book \"Frå Sundfjord til Rio\" (\"From Sunnfjord to Rio\") was published. In three parts, the book described the sea, differences between the officers and the crew, bordellos, ports, and fighting in pubs.\n\n1939 saw the publication of \"Krossen og sleggja\" (\"The Cross and the Sledgehammer\"), a collection of all his previous poems, as well as ten new ones.\n\nOne of his most famous poems, \"Da Daniel drog\" (\"When Daniel Left\") was published in the collection \"Guten og Grenda\" (\"The Boy and the Village\"). The poem is sometimes referred to as \"Vesle Daniel\" (\"Little Daniel\").\n\n\"Korn og klunger\" was published in 1950, and \"Sirius\" in 1955.\n\nHis last book, \"Det kveldar på Kobbeskjer\", was published in 1961.\n\nHis poems vary from a burlesque and a sometimes grotesque humor as in \"Kallen og katten\" and \"Likfunn\" to high emotionality as in \"Fløytelåt\" and \"Vesle Daniel\"\n\nHis beautiful song \"Det lyser i stille grender\" is included in most Norwegian books of hymns and is a very popular Christmas song.\n\nHis poem \"Etter ein rangel\" is very famous.\n\nMany of Jakob Sande's poems have been set to music. Two of the most popular groups who specialise in Jakob Sande lyrics are Aftenlandet and Jubelhornet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27032460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27032460", "title": "Jugend debattiert international", "text": "Jugend debattiert international\n\nJugend debattiert international is a German-language debating competition for students based on the national German pupils' contest \"Jugend debattiert\". It is held in ten countries of Central and Eastern Europe: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia (Moscow and St. Petersburg), Slovakia, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Ukraine and Hungary. The project is funded by the Goethe-Institut, the Foundation \"Remembrance, Responsibility and Future\", the Hertie Foundation and the Central Agency for German Schools Abroad (Zentralstelle für das Auslandsschulwesen). There are local supporters in three countries: In Czech Republic the project is supported by the Czech-German Future Fund, in Lithuania by the Lithuanian Information and Technology Center for students. In Poland Jugend debattiert international is supported by the Foundation for Polish-German Cooperation.\n\n\"Jugend debattiert international\" is the only international German-language debating contest for students. It helps young people in Central and Eastern Europe to advocate their views and opinions and represents and promotes the German language as a medium of debate. Beyond supporting language acquisition, it strengthens conversation skills and promotes a deeper understanding of democracy. Thus the project not only encourages democracy, but also works towards the formation of an international young elite. The debates revolve around topics such as school life, fundamental rights, history (especially historical experiences of injustice), and Europe. \"Jugend debattiert international\" targets students from 10th grade onwards who master German at least to the level of B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference.\n\nIn 2015/16 more than 2300 students at 157 schools took part in the competition. The project is integrated into the curriculum. In class students are trained in the rules of debating and enter the competition on a school level. The best students compete the next stages of the competition: school district and national level. The winners (first and second) from each of the eight countries will finally compete in the international finale. Since the fourth international finale 2010 in Berlin, the winners of the German competition \"Jugend debattiert\" support them as advisors.\n\nThe format of the debate is strictly set up: Four students, two on the \"pro\" side, two on the \"contra\" side, debate for 24 minutes in German language on socio-political issues (e.g., \"Should Turkey accede to the European Union?\"). The debate starts with an opening round in which every participant has two minutes to outline his or her position. In the following twelve minutes the four debaters can exchange their arguments without strict regulations. During the final round the participants have one minute each to reflect on the arguments and summarize their final position in the light of the debate.\nA jury of three evaluates the debate according to the following points: expertise, eloquence, conversational competence and persuasiveness. Language skills are not included in the assessment.\n\n\"Jugend debattiert international\" was first carried out in Poland and the Czech Republic in 2005. Since 2006, schools in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Ukraine have been taking part in the project. In 2009 Moscow and Saint Petersburg joined the competition after a two-year pilot phase.\nIn 2007, students from all seven countries and Germany met for the first international finale in Prague under the auspices of the former president of Czech Republic, Václav Havel. Winners of the first international finale were Jakub Štefela from Liberec, Czech Republic and Peer Klüßendorf from Rostock, Germany. The Second international finale took place in October 2008 in \"Warsaw\" under the auspices of the Sejm Marshal of the Republic of Poland, Mr. Bronislaw Komorowski. Barbara Wasilewska from Warsaw, Poland and Wiebke Neelsen from Wismar, Germany, won this competition. In February 2010 the third international finale took place in Prague. Jitka Rutrlová from Prague, Czech Republic and Maximilian Behrens from Münster, Germany, were the winners of the final debate. The fourth international finale was held in Berlin in November 2010. Irina Avdeeva from Russia was awarded first place in competition 2009/2010 after the final debate. In 2011 the international final took place for the fifth time in Kiev, Ukraine. Annett Lymar from Estonia won the final debate. In 2012 the sixth international final was won by the Hungarian student Gréta Szabó from Budapest. The international final was held for the seventh time in 2013 in Budapest. Dominika Perlínová from the Czech Republic was announced as the international winner. The 8th international final took place in Warsaw. Anastasija Minitš from Estonia won this year´s competition. In 2015 the international finale was held for the 9th time in Latvian capital Riga. The international winner was Anna Ryan from Hungary. From 2016 on, Slovakia and Slovenia take part in the project. In this year the international final took place in Prague and Khoi Nguyen won in his hometown.\n\nInternational Finals\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11736403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11736403", "title": "Jurij Koch", "text": "Jurij Koch\n\nJurij Koch (born 15 September 1936 in Horka, Upper Lusatia) is a Sorbian writer. He writes in both Sorbian languages as well as German.\n\nKoch's father worked in the nearby quarry, his mother worked several jobs at different farms. Jurij Koch went to school in Crostwitz, northern Czechoslovakia, Bautzen and Cottbus, and studied at the University of Leipzig.\n\nHe has worked as an editor and reporter.\n\n"}
{"id": "36841590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36841590", "title": "Kagoshima verb conjugations", "text": "Kagoshima verb conjugations\n\nThe verbal morphology of the Kagoshima dialects is heavily marked by numerous distinctive phonological processes, as well as both morphological and lexical differences. The following article deals primarily with the changes and differences affecting the verb conjugations of the central Kagoshima dialect, spoken throughout most of the mainland and especially around Kagoshima City, though notes on peripheral dialects may be added. Like standard Japanese, verbs do not inflect for person or plurality, and come in nine basic stems. However, contrary to the standard language, all verbs ending with the stem \"-ru\" conjugate regularly as consonant-stem verbs, though irregularities are present in other forms.\n\nMost notably, the distinction and irregular conjugation pattern of the \"shimo nidan\" or \"lower bigrade\" ending \"-(y)uru\", which corresponds to standard Japanese \"-eru\", is still preserved in the dialect. However, \"kami nidan\" or \"upper bigrade\" verbs ending in \"-iru\" have merged with all other verbs ending in \"-ru\", in a similar fashion to other Kyushu dialects like that of Ōita.\n\nThe imperfective form, also known as the plain, the dictionary or the non-past form, is primarily used to mark a generic, affirmative action and generally overlaps the present and future tenses in English. So, for instance, a statement like 彼やあそけ行っ \"aya asoke iʔ\" could mean either \"he is going over there\" or \"he will be going over there\". Typically, context will provide the meaning, though temporal adverbs such as 今日 \"kyu\" \"today\", 今 \"inma\" \"now\" or 明日 \"ashita\" \"tomorrow\" may be used for clarification.\n\nWith regards to its conjugation paradigm, the imperfective form ends in \"-u\" for all verbs as in standard Japanese. Notably, however, the resulting stem is reduced according to the dialect's phonological rules. Thus, for vowel stems, \"-u\" will either coalesce with the previous vowel of the verb or become a moraic obstruent, while for nasal stems it reduces to a moraic nasal and for obstruents, a moraic obstruent. This applies to most areas of Kagoshima with some exceptions: namely, the peripheral islands, such as Ōsumi (including Tanegashima) and Koshikijima, do not reduce the endings.\n\nWhen used predicatively, verbs in their imperfective form are commonly appended particles such as ど \"do\" and が \"ga\" in order to add more emphasis to the statement being said. In this way, 俺や書っど \"oya kaddo\" \"I will write (it)\" adds more insistence or assertion than saying 俺や書っ \"oya kaʔ\" alone. When used attributively, the verb is simply followed directly by the word or phrase it modifies: 書っ人 \"kaʔ futo\" (or \"kaffuto\") \"a person who writes\".\n\nThe perfective or completive ending \"-ta\", and its allomorph \"-da\", marks an action or an event as a whole, often one that has previously taken place. It is thus frequently referred to as the \"past tense\" in English descriptions, though this is not always the case. In Southern Tanegashima, this ending is pronounced \"-tō\" and has \"-dō\" as its allomorphic variant.\n\nIn contrast to standard Japanese, verbs ending in \"-u\" will take on the form \"-uta\" rather than \"-tta\", as in \"omou\" → \"omouta\" → \"omota\". Similarly, a number of verbs with the morphological ending \"-gu\" will become \"-uda\", while others will tend towards \"-ida\". For example, 稼ぐ \"kasegu\" \"labour\" becomes \"kaseida\", which is then coalesced as \"kaseda\", whereas 繋ぐ \"tsunagu\" \"tie\" becomes \"tsunouda\", which reduces to the form \"tsunoda\". The same phenomenon can be observed with the \"-ku\" ending: while most verbs would become \"-ita\", such as 書く \"kaku\" \"write\" → \"kaita\" → \"kete\", some also become \"-uta\", such as 退く \"noku\" \"step aside\" → \"nouta\" → \"nota\".\n\nNegation is expressed by appending the suffix \"-n\" at the end of a verb in its imperfective stem form. This can be achieved by simply replacing the final \"-u\" in the underlying plain form with \"-a\", and then tagging on the negative suffix: \"kaku\" → \"kakan\" \"not write\", \"wakaru\" → \"wakaran\" \"not understand\", etc. The two main irregularities in this form relate to verbs that stem in \"-ru\" and \"-su\" in their plain forms. Verbs with the stem \"-ru\" may take on the ending \"-tan\" instead of \"-ran\", especially if the preceding syllable is a devoiced one. So the negative form of the verb \"shiru\" \"know\" is \"shitan\" rather than \"shiran\", as the syllable \"shi\" is devoiced. The alternative ending \"-yan\" is much more rare, occurring only in a few regions, and most prominently only when the preceding syllable contains a non-devoiced . For verbs with the stem \"-su\", the ending may be realized as either \"-san\" or \"-han\" with no rules governing its use other than speaker and dialect preference.\n\nVerbs whose underlying imperfective form ends in \"-uru\" (\"-eru\" in standard Japanese), otherwise known as \"shimo nidan\" or \"lower bigrade\" verbs, are also noticeably irregular. For such verbs, the entire ending become \"-en\" when negated. For example, the underlying verb 見ゆる \"miyuru\" becomes 見えん \"mien\" \"not be seen\", and 投ぐる \"naguru\" becomes 投げん \"nagen\" \"not give up\".\n\nContrary to popular belief, the suffix \"-n\" does not derive from a relaxed pronunciation of the standard negative form \"-nai\", as demonstrated through the discrepancy between such forms as \"minai\" → *\"miran\" \"not see\", and \"shinai\" → *\"sen\" \"not do\". Further, considering the phonological characteristics of the dialect, the form \"-ne\" would be expected if such were the case. Rather, the negative suffix \"-n\" derives from the older attributive suffix \"-nu\", which can still be encountered in various literary works. And while the oldest examples showing \"-nai\" date back to the 16th century, \"-nu\" is attested as early as the 8th century in the Kojiki, and is believed to have already been reduced to its present form \"-n\" during the Edo period. The first line of the 11th century classical novel The Tale of Genji provides an example of its use: \"(...) ito yamugoto-naki kifa-ni-fa ara-nu ga (...)\", translated as \"though (she) is not quite of a nobel birth\".\n\nThe past negative form can be accomplished by compounding the regular negative verb form with the past form of the copula, yielding such constructions as \"kakanjatta\", \"kakannyatta\", or, more rarely, \"kakannatta\" \"did not write\" depending on the region's preferred variant. The form \"-nkatta\", as in \"kakankatta\", has also been observed in the Ōsumi and Morokata regions, as well as the city of Kagoshima itself.\n\nNegative commands or orders are informally marked by tagging on the suffix \"-na\" to the plain form: 行く \"iku\" \"to go\" → 行っな \"inna\", \"iʔna\" (most regions), 行くな \"ikuna\" (Tanegashima, Koshikijima), 行っだ \"idda\" (Yakushima) \"don't go\". In western Ōsumi, the \"-na\" suffix commonly co-occurs with the auxiliary verb \"yaru\", which is then combined to the continuative \"i\" form of a verb: 行く \"iku\" → 行っきゃっな \"ikkyanna\". Formally, negative commands are marked by appending \"-ji(n)\" either directly to the imperfective ending or to the negative form: 行く \"iku\" → 行かぢ \"ikaji\", or 行かんじ \"ikanji\" \"do not go\".\n\nLastly, the negative form can also be used as a suggestive or light imperative when followed by the particle か \"ka\". Thus, for the verb \"eat\", 食わんか \"kuwan ka\" would effectively mean along the lines of \"go ahead and eat\" or simply \"(please) eat\". Note that this form is not the same as the standard Japanese construction \"-nai ka?\", as it functions more as an imperative than a negative question. So a sentence like ゆっくい行かんか \"yukkui ikan ka\" would mean \"(please) go slowly\" and not \"won't you go slowly?\", unless the intonation is explicitly rising.\n\nThe \"i form\", also called the conjunctive, the continuative, the infinitive, the nominative or the \"ren'yōkei\" form, may be used for two main purposes: deriving nouns from verbs and creating compound constructions. This form can be achieved by simply changing the vowel \"-u\" of the underlying plain form to \"-i\", and then applying the necessary sound changes afterwards. Contrary to the standard Japanese language, this form is completely regular for verbs ending with the plain stem \"-ru\". Thus, the underlying verb 食もる \"tamoru\" \"eat\" would become 食もい \"tamoi\" (< \"tamori\"), instead of just reducing to the root as in standard Japanese.\n\nThere may, however, be some irregularity when deriving nouns or compounds, as verbs ending with the plain stems \"-u\" and \"-ru\" may become a moraic obstruent as opposed to the vowel . For example, the underlying verb 買う \"kau\" \"buy\" could become in its nominal form rather than \"buying\", also creating a doublet between かっもん and けもん \"shopping\". Similarly, the underlying verb 知る \"shiru\" \"know\" could become rather than , leading to the polite construction 知っもさん \"not know\" rather than .\n\nFurther, when the \"i form\" is used in a compound construction and the second verb begins with a vowel or a palatal consonant, the underlying stem may:\n\n\nThe use of the \"i form\" for linking verbs together and creating compounds is especially prominent for adding a nuance of politeness. The verbs やる \"yaru\", やす \"yasu\" and やんす \"yansu\", for instance, act as honorific auxiliaries and are frequently used in imperative constructions as in 食もいやんせ \"tamoi-yanse\" \"please eat\" or 遊っびゃんせ \"asubbyanse\" \"please play\" (also 遊っやんせ \"asuʔ-yanse\"), which would be the equivalent of 食べなさい \"tabenasai\" and 遊びなさい \"asobinasai\" in standard Japanese. Similarly, the verbs もす \"mosu\" (or もうす \"mōsu\" in Tanegashima) and もんす \"monsu\", sometimes written as 申す and 申んす, will add a degree of politeness akin to the standard Japanese ending ます \"-masu\". Thus, for 食もる \"tamoru\" \"eat\" and 読む \"nomu\" \"drink\", the polite forms would be 食もいもす \"tamoi-mosu\" and 飲んもす \"non-mosu\" respectively.\n\nThe \"te form\" or the participle form functions in much the same way as it does in standard Japanese, being able to link different verbs and clauses together, and on its own expressing a slight command. It differs, however, largely in its pronunciation. Depending on the speaker and dialect, it might be pronounced anywhere from , , or , which may or may not be reflected with the spellings て \"te\", ちぇ \"che\", っせ(え) \"sse(e)\" and っしぇ(ー) \"sshe(e)\". Its voiced counterpart \"de\" exhibits the same phenomenon, being pronounced , or , which could be written as で \"de\", ぢぇ \"je\" or じぇ \"je\" respectively. The spellings て \"te\" and で \"de\" are here favoured, though the affricated pronunciations and are the most common.\n\nThe form also differs slightly in its paradigm, as verbs that end with the morphological ending \"-u\" will take on the form \"-ute\" rather than \"-tte\", which is used in the standard language. For example, the underlying verb 会う \"au\" \"meet\" would become あうて \"aute\", which is then coalesced to the form おて \"ote\". Similarly, a number of verbs with the morphological ending \"-gu\" will become \"-ude\", while others will tend towards \"-ide\". For example, 剥ぐ \"hagu\" \"tear off\" becomes \"haide\", which is then coalesced as \"hede\", while 急ぐ \"isogu\" \"rush\" becomes \"isoude\" in its underlying form, which is then coalesced as \"isode\". This can also be observed with the ending \"-ku\", although to a much lesser extent. Most verbs ending in \"-ku\" will become \"-ite\" in this form, so that 書く \"kaku\" \"write\" becomes \"kaite\", which is then coalesced as \"kete\". A few others will become \"-ute\", so that 退く \"noku\" \"step aside/down\" becomes \"noute\", which is coalesced as \"note\". Lastly, for verbs with the stems \"-mu\" and \"-bu\", the ending \"-nde\" may be optionally vocalized as \"-ude\". So 飛ぶ \"tobu\" \"fly\" could become either \"tonde\" or \"tode\" (< \"toude\"). And for verbs ending in \"-su\", the form \"-shite\" may be reduced to \"-ite\", so that 貸す \"kasu\" \"lend\" becomes \"kaite\" instead of \"kashite\", which may be coalesced into \"kete\".\n\nThe continuous or progressive aspect, which is formed with the \"te form\" followed by the auxiliary いる \"iru\" in standard Japanese, follows a similar development in most Kagoshima dialects, using the auxiliary verb おる \"oru\" instead. The \"te form\" is then combined and merged with the verb, becoming ちょる \"-choru\" or in some areas とる \"-toru\", which have ぢょる (じょる) \"-joru\" and どる \"doru\" as their respective voiced counterparts. Thus, as the \"te form\" of the verb 食う \"kuu\" \"eat\" is くて \"kute\", its progressive form would generally be expressed as 食ちょっ \"kuchoʔ\" \"eating\", while the progressive form of 読む \"yomu\" \"read\" would become either 読んぢょっ \"yonjoʔ\" or 読ぢょっ \"yojoʔ\" \"reading\", reflecting the voicing in its participle forms 読んで \"yonde\" and 読で \"yode\". In other dialects, the continuous-progressive aspect is constructed using the \"i form\" followed by the auxiliary \"oru\". Some dialects may even make a semantic distinction between the two, with the first marking the resultative aspect, and the second, the continuous aspect. So 雨が降っちょっ \"ame ga futchoʔ\" would effectively mean \"it has rained\", while 雨が降よっ \"ame ga fuyoʔ\" would mean \"it is raining\".\n\nThe imperative form is achieved by replacing the vowel \"-u\" of the underlying plain form to \"-e\", and subsequently applying the appropriate sound changes. Namely, vowel coalescence is usually observed with verbs whose stem ends in just a vowel, and for verbs whose stem is \"-ru\", the resulting form \"-re\" is often reduced to \"-i\", so that 食もれ \"tamore\" would become 食もい \"tamoi\" \"eat!\". This leads to overlap with the \"i form\", though context is usually sufficient to disambiguate the two. The form is regularized in comparison to standard Japanese, as the dialect only makes use of the ending \"-e\" and never \"-ro\" as an imperative, and the form \"-i\" observed with \"-ru\" verbs is here the result of a regular sound change, whereas in Japanese it is not so due to borrowing from the Kansai dialect.\n\nIn order to form polite imperative commands, the auxiliary verb やる \"yaru\", along with its variants やす \"yasu\" and やんす \"yansu\", may be changed to its imperative form and appended to another verb in its conjunctive \"i form\". For example, the polite form of the verb \"eat\" could become 食もいやい \"tamoi-yai\" or 食もいやんせ \"tamoi-yanse\" \"please eat!\". When it comes to verbs whose stems reduce to a moraic obstruent in the \"i form\", two outcomes are possible. First, the auxiliary can be appended directly without any change, giving 書っやい \"kaʔ-yai\" for \"please write\". Otherwise, the underlying stem will usually be doubled and subsequently glided in order to avoid a hiatus, resulting in the form 書っきゃい \"kakkyai\" for \"please write\".\n\nThe volitional or presumptive form is essentially used to express either intention or probability. It is historically formed by appending the speculative or intentional suffix \"-u\", itself a reduction of the earlier form \"you\", to the conjunctive \"i\" form. The resulting ending was then contracted to \"-ō\" and later \"-o\" in the mainland dialects. One main exception to this is that for verbs whose underlying imperfective form ends in \"-uru\" (\"-eru\" in standard Japanese), otherwise known as \"shimo nidan\" or \"lower bigrade\" verbs, the entire ending is reduced to \"-u\" instead. For example, the verb 開くっ \"akuʔ\" (standard 開ける \"akeru\") \"open\" becomes 開く \"aku\" \"intend on opening\", and 上ぐっ \"aguʔ\" (standard 上げる \"ageru\") \"raise\" becomes 上ぐ \"agu\" \"intend on raising\". Another exception is that, for verbs modelled off the verbs \"to do\" or \"to come\", otherwise known as \"sagyō\" and \"kagyō\" irregular verbs, the endings become \"-sū\" or \"-ku\" respectively.\n\nThis form is also noticeably used in conjunction with the verb ごたっ \"gotaʔ\" (ごたる \"gotaru\"), or its variants ごあっ \"goaʔ\" and ごちゃっ \"gochaʔ\", to indicate desire or express a wish to do something. For example, 食ぉごたっ \"kwo-gotaʔ\" means \"want to eat\", あすぼごたっ \"asubo-gotaʔ\" means \"want to play\", and 投ぐごあっ \"nagu-goaʔ\" (from the \"shimo nidan\" verb 投ぐる \"naguru\") means \"want to give up\". This auxiliary verb can also be used with more stative verbs to indicate the notion of \"it seems to be\", \"it looks\", or \"it looks like it is going to\". For instance, 雨が降ろごたっ \"ame ga furo-gotaʔ\" effectively means \"it looks like it will rain\".\n\nThe Conditional form is made by changing the final -u in the dictionary form (終止形) to -eba, and then any vowel coalescence applies. The verb \"kuu\" (to eat) shown in the table contracts to \"kweba\". />\n\nThe causative form differs from standard Japanese in that it becomes \"-(was)asuru\" rather than \"-(was)aseru\". This form can be achieved by replacing the final \"-u\" in the underlying plain form with \"-asuru\" or, for verbs stemming in just \"-u\", \"-wasasuru\". These are then reduced to \"-asuʔ\" and \"-wasasuʔ\" respectively following regular sound changes, though the latter ending may further reduce to \"-wassuʔ\" in speech, resulting in 食ゎっすっ \"kwassuʔ\" instead of 食ゎさすっ \"kwasasuʔ\" \"to make (someone) eat\". The difference observed between the dialectal form \"-(as)asuru\" and the standard form \"-(as)aseru\" is also representative of the fact that this form conjugates like other \"shimo nidan\" or \"lower bigrade\" verbs. Consequently, it is notably irregular in comparison to other \"-ru\" verbs in the \"i form\" and imperative form where it becomes \"-sase\", as well as the volitional form where it becomes \"-sasu\". It is also irregular in the negative form, where it becomes \"-sasen\".\nThe passive form conjugates like other \"shimo nidan\" or \"lower bigrade\" verbs ending in \"-uru\".\n"}
{"id": "14852858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14852858", "title": "Kako language", "text": "Kako language\n\nKako (also Mkako or Mkaka) is a Bantu language spoken mainly in Cameroon, with some speakers in the Central African Republic and the Republic of the Congo. The main population centres of Kako speakers are Batouri and Ndélélé in the East Region of Cameroon.\n\nOnce grouped with the Gbaya dialect cluster and often still referred to as part of an undefined \"Gbaya-Kaka\" group, Kako is now grouped in the Bantu subgroup of the Niger–Congo language family.\n\nKako can be divided in three main closely related dialects stretching from eastern dialect (Bεra, Bèra) near the Bertoua-Doumé area to a middle dialect (Mgbwako, Mgbako) in near the Batouri area to a western dialect (Mbondjóo, Bo-Ndjo, Kou) near the Cameroon-Central African Republic border area. The difference is the greatest between the eastern Bεra dialect and the western Mbondjóo, with the Mgbwako dialect forming a middle ground.\n\nAll three remain mutually intelligible. The Bεra and Mbondjóo dialects have 85.5% of their words in common, of which 26.4% are identical and 59.1% are cognates.\n\nOther known variants of Kako language are Bo-Rong, Lossou, Ngwendjè and Mbéssembo.\n\nLinguistic and documentary evidence support oral traditions claiming that the people speaking Kako, and thus the language, have migrated to their present positions from further east. Current evidence can trace the language back to the area just east of the current Cameroon-Central African Republic border, around the towns of Berberati and Gaza in the mid 19th century. Further extrapolation into history is speculative, though being a Bantu language it is likely to have followed the Bantu migrations out of their ancestral homeland in the southern Cameroon-Nigeria borderlands.\n\nFor their known history, the Kako language has been in close contact with various dialects of the Gbaya language. This has resulted in numerous borrowings of words. In fact, the Bεra dialect of Kako and the Yaáyuwee dialect of Kako share nearly 1% of their words, with a further 10-15% being cognates.\n"}
{"id": "7870501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7870501", "title": "Kitab", "text": "Kitab\n\nKitab (), also transcribed as kitaab, It is part of titles of many Arabic language books. Some prominent examples are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29782774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29782774", "title": "Knife (envelope)", "text": "Knife (envelope)\n\nKnife is the cutting die for envelope or wrapper blanks. It is called a \"knife\" rather than a \"die\" because the latter is an object that makes an embossed printed impression of the stamp or indicium on the envelope. Traditionally, a knife would normally be made of forged steel. It was placed on a stack of paper with the sharp edge against the paper. The press head forced the cutting edge all the way through the stack of paper. The cut blanks were removed from the knife and the process repeated. Not only could it cut out the odd shape of an envelope, but a knife could be used to cut out shapes of airmail stickers or gummed labels in the shape of stars or circles. The variety of shapes a knife could cut would be infinite.\n\nIn philately, Thorp knife numbers were, and still are, used to indicate the height, width, shapes, and folds of envelopes generally numbered in the order of their discovery by collectors. The United Postal Stationery Society (UPSS) now has its own numbering system for envelope knives which is seeing more current use.\n"}
{"id": "38515577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38515577", "title": "Koihoma language", "text": "Koihoma language\n\nKoihoma (Coixoma), also known ambiguously as Coto (Koto) and Orejone (Orejón), neither its actual name, is an extinct Witotoan language of Peru.\n"}
{"id": "46602403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46602403", "title": "Lisan al-Gharbi", "text": "Lisan al-Gharbi\n\nLisan al-Gharbi (Arabic for \"Western dialect\") is the name given to an extinct dialect of Berber that was spoken over much of the Atlantic plains of Morocco. It was closely related to Tashelhit.\n\nThe Lisan al-Gharbi was the official language of the Barghawata Confederacy, and the idiom used in Salih ibn Tarif's \"indigenous Qur'an\".\n\nThe Barghawata's defeat by Almoravids in the 11th century, the settlement of several Arab and Zenata tribes in the area by Almohads and Marinids, the Portuguese invasion in the 15th century, several famines and the resulting displacement of populations made the Masmouda minoritary while Arabic became the dominant language; that led to the Arabization of the remaining Masmouda population and the extinction of the Lisan al-Gharbi.\n\nNowadays, several tribes and sub-tribes of Masmouda descent are still found among the Doukkala, the Chaouia, the Zaers and the Regraga. However, they are all Arabophone; the only Berber-speaking Masmouda ethnic group to be found in the Atlantic plains is the Hahha confederacy, but no direct filiation link had been established between their dialect (belonging to Tashelhit) and the Lisan al-Gharbi.\n"}
{"id": "26012905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26012905", "title": "List of films based on arts books", "text": "List of films based on arts books\n\nThis is a list of films based on arts books.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8626029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8626029", "title": "Munir Niazi", "text": "Munir Niazi\n\nMunir Ahmad, better known as Munir Niazi, ()(1928-2006) Sitara-e-Imtiaz Award recipient, was an Urdu and Punjabi poet from Pakistan. Originally of Pashtun descent, Munir Ahmed used to call himself Punjabi as Punjabi definition is cultural and geographical and most of his poetry also reflected the culture of Punjab.\n\nNiazi was born on 9 April 1928, in Khanpur, one of the Pathan villages in Hoshiarpur Punjab, British India. He was initially educated at Khanpur. After the partition of India in 1947, he migrated and settled in Sahiwal, where he passed his matriculation examination. He earned an intermediate degree from Sadiq Egerton College, Bahawalpur and a B.A. degree from Dayal Singh College, Lahore, Pakistan. Munir Niazi launched a weekly, \"Seven Colours\", from Sahiwal in 1949. Some of his poetry was used in films and these film songs became extremely popular super-hit songs among the Pakistani public which established him as the foremost movie songwriter of Pakistan. For example, the film song in film Shaheed (1962), \"Uss Bewafa Ka Shehar Hai Aur Hum Hain Dosto\" and many others.\n\nHe also wrote for newspapers, magazines and radio. In 1960, he established a publication institute, \"Al-Misal\". He was later associated with Pakistan Television, Lahore and lived in Lahore till his death. \"Taiz Hawa Aur Tanha Phool, Jungle Mein Dhanak, Dushmanoon Kai Darmiyan Sham\" and \"Mah-e-Munir\" are some of his Urdu publications. In Punjabi language, he has published \"Safar Di Raat, Char Chup Cheezan and Rasta Dassan Walay Tarey.\" Effective imagery in his poetry conveys pictures in a few words. He has experimented with poetic forms and has tried to create a new style, rhythm and diction in Urdu poetry. Innocence, mythology, nostalgia, dreams, eroticism, and romance are some of his most common themes. Selected English translations of Munir Niazi's poetical works were edited by Suhail Safdar and published in 1996.\n\nMunir Niazi died of respiratory illness on 26 December 2006 in Lahore, Pakistan.\n\nPride of Performance Award by the President of Pakistan in 1992 \n\nSitara-e-Imtiaz Award by the President of Pakistan in 2005 \n\n"}
{"id": "29549932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29549932", "title": "Nakos", "text": "Nakos\n\nNakos is another word for the Semantron, a wood and metal gong-like instrument used to call Christian worshipers to prayer in Syria, Jerusalem and other parts of the Ottoman Empire where Muslim authorities did not allow the use of church bells.\n\nA masculine name meaning \"sage\" or \"wisdom\". The origin of this name is Arapaho, which is a tribe of Native Americans historically living on the eastern plains of Colorado and Wyoming. Nakos can also mean \"herb\" or \"sagebrush\" - a shrubby aromatic North American plant of the daisy family.\n\n\"Nakos\" is also a common Greek last name. Also pronounced as Nakou with the \"s\" being silent. Sometimes shortened in the United States from the Greek last name \"Nakopolous\". Originally thought to have come from the Epirus region of Greece but it's hard to pinpoint the origins.\n"}
{"id": "22663253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22663253", "title": "Obo Aba Hisanjani", "text": "Obo Aba Hisanjani\n\nObo Aba Hisanjani (born 24 November 1949) is a Nigerian poet.\n\nHe was born in the small village of Ajah, now a bustling marketplace. He has campaigned against the development and exploitation of the surrounding areas for purely commercial purposes. In a television interview in 2001 he spoke about the loss of traditional land rights and values.\n\nKnown in Lagos as the Bushman Poet, he is known for his native rhythms and complex Yoruba rhymes. His main themes cover traditional practices. He was criticised by many politicians in the 1980s for being against modernisation.\n\nHe is currently the Nigerian Poet Laureate.\n\n"}
{"id": "37853840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37853840", "title": "Pentel PS513", "text": "Pentel PS513\n\nOther classic designs from this period are the PS535 and the Original Quicker Clicker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1617255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1617255", "title": "Pritchel", "text": "Pritchel\n\nA pritchel is a type of punch used in forging, particularly in making nail holes in horseshoes. The horseshoe is heated and a hole is punched through 90 percent of the steel with a forepunch or drift punch. The pointed end of the tool should be kept sharp and so that the burr is cut out smoothly. The punched hole is lined up over the pritchel hole and the pritchel is driven into the hole, knocking out the remaining metal at the bottom of the punched hole. \nThe temperature of the pritchel should be always below the \"red-hot\" stage as the tool itself will bend and lose the temper. When over-heated it is advised to cool it in water intermediately.\n\nThe pritchel should normally be driven from the bottom of the shoe, similarly as the nail is driven. \"Back pritcheling\" is the process of driving it from the opposite side —the hoof side— leaving burrs and resulting in the weakening and cutting the nails.\n\nA pritchel hole is a round hole in an anvil. Its primary purpose is to provide clearance for punching tools, but it can also be used to hold tools that have round shanks. Pritchel tools are tools such as punches whose functions do not require them to be held at a particular orientation. A square hole in an anvil is called a Hardy hole, not to be confused with\ntapered square holes seen in tinsmith's equipment.\n"}
{"id": "15585004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15585004", "title": "Rebecca bat Meir Tiktiner", "text": "Rebecca bat Meir Tiktiner\n\nRebecca bat Meir Tiktiner (died circa 1550), was a Yiddish writer, whose works include a treatise on Jewish ethics in the style of musar literature as well as a poem about Simchat Torah. \n\nShe or her father probably resided in the northeast Poland town of Tykocin. According to the records of the Altneushul, she was married to someone with rabbinic training (\"ha-rav rabbi\").\n\nThe ethical treatise, \"Meneket Rivkah\" (Prague, 1609. Cracow, 1618), is 36 folios long and organized by seven gates. The author focuses on the duties of a housewife in various relationships (e.g., to husband or guest) as well as a general ethical approach, dealing with niddah, health social practices (von Rohde, 2007b). The treatise includes stories from the Talmud and midrashic literature. Tiktiner differentiates between the wisdom of the body and of the soul (\"guf\" and \"nefesh\"). This practical guidelines \"paint a vivid picture of Jewish women's daily lives in the early modern period.\" Von Rohde claims that this is \"probably the first substantive published book in Yiddish written by a Jewish women (sic)\" (von Rohde 2007b).\n\nRebecca also wrote a rhymed Yiddish hymn for the holiday of Simḥat Torah, entitled Eyn Simkhas Touro Lid, which describes an eschatological, festive banquet for men and women alike. The poem, which survives in two separate undated 17th century printings, consists of 40 rhyming couplets (with acrostic), in which each verse is followed by the refrain hallelujah.\n\nShe died in circa 1550 and was buried in Prague; she died circa 1550.\n\n"}
{"id": "17511256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17511256", "title": "SYZ conjecture", "text": "SYZ conjecture\n\nThe SYZ conjecture is an attempt to understand the mirror symmetry conjecture, an issue in theoretical physics and mathematics. The original conjecture was proposed in a paper by Strominger, Yau, and Zaslow, entitled \"Mirror Symmetry is \"T\"-duality\".\n\nAlong with the homological mirror symmetry conjecture, it is one of the most explored tools applied to understand mirror symmetry in mathematical terms. While the homological mirror symmetry is based on homological algebra, the SYZ conjecture is a geometrical realization of mirror symmetry.\n\nIn string theory, mirror symmetry relates type IIA and type IIB theories. It predicts that the effective field theory of type IIA and type IIB should be the same if the two theories are compactified on mirror pair manifolds.\n\nThe SYZ conjecture uses this fact to realize mirror symmetry. It starts from considering BPS states of type IIA theories compactified on \"X\", especially 0-branes that have moduli space \"X\". It is known that all of the BPS states of type IIB theories compactified on \"Y\" are 3-branes. Therefore, mirror symmetry will map 0-branes of type IIA theories into a subset of 3-branes of type IIB theories.\n\nBy considering supersymmetric conditions, it has been shown that these 3-branes should be special Lagrangian submanifolds. On the other hand, T-duality does the same transformation in this case, thus \"mirror symmetry is T-duality\".\n"}
{"id": "15234747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15234747", "title": "Salami Studios", "text": "Salami Studios\n\nSalami Studios is a sound studio located in North Hollywood, California, that specializes in voiceover recording, sound design/mixing and various sound editing services for video games, films, and animated cartoons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33680169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33680169", "title": "Stage reading", "text": "Stage reading\n\nA stage reading is a form of theatre without sets or full costumes. The actors, who read from scripts, may be seated, stand in fixed positions, or incorporate minimal stage movement.\n\nA stage reading of a new play in development is an intermediate phase between a cold reading, with the cast usually sitting around a table, and a full production. A narrator may read stage directions aloud. The purpose is to gauge the effectiveness of the dialogue, pacing and flow, and other dramatic elements that the playwright or director may wish to adjust. Audience feedback contributes to the process. In play-development workshopping, the stage reading is one of the forms of workshop, along with the rehearsed reading, the exploratory workshop, and the full workshop production. It is an inexpensive way to get a new play in front of an audience.\n\nStage readings that include members of Actors' Equity in the cast are governed by that union's Stage Reading Guidelines.\n\nA screenplay in development that relies to a significant degree on dialogue rather than action may sometimes be given a stage reading, as a way to attract potential investors or to rehearse. As a form of public performance, the stage reading of a film script is like performing a radio play before a live audience, with emphasis on the use of imagination and on voice acting, which might require theatre actors and voice-over artists.\n\nReader's theatre is the stage reading of a fully developed or classic play, when the reading is itself the performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1414572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1414572", "title": "Storage organ", "text": "Storage organ\n\nA storage organ is a part of a plant specifically modified for storage of energy \n(generally in the form of carbohydrates) or water. Storage organs often grow underground, where they are better protected from attack by herbivores. Plants that have an underground storage organ are called geophytes in the Raunkiær plant life-form classification system. Storage organs often, but not always, act as perennating organs which enable plants to survive adverse conditions (such as cold, excessive heat, lack of light or drought).\n\nStorage organs may act as perennating organs ('perennating' as in perennial, meaning \"through the year\", used in the sense of continuing beyond the year and in due course lasting for multiple years). These are used by plants to survive adverse periods in the plant's life-cycle (e.g. caused by cold, excessive heat, lack of light or drought). During these periods, parts of the plant die and then when conditions become favourable again, re-growth occurs from buds in the perennating organs. For example, geophytes growing in woodland under deciduous trees (e.g. bluebells, trilliums) die back to underground storage organs during summer when tree leaf cover restricts light and water is less available.\n\nHowever, perennating organs need not be storage organs. After losing their leaves, deciduous trees grow them again from 'resting buds', which are the perennating organs of phanerophytes in the Raunkiær classification, but which do not specifically act as storage organs. Equally, storage organs need not be perennating organs. Many succulents have leaves adapted for water storage, which they retain in adverse conditions.\n\nIn common parlance, underground storage organs may be generically called roots, tubers, or bulbs, but to the botanist there is more specific technical nomenclature:\n\n\nSome of the above, particularly pseudobulbs and caudices, may occur wholly or partially above ground. Intermediates and combinations of the above are also found, making classification difficult. As an example of an intermediate, the tuber of \"Cyclamen\" arises from the stem of the seedling, which forms the junction of the roots and stem of the mature plant. In some species (e.g. \"Cyclamen coum\") roots come from the bottom of the tuber, suggesting that it is a stem tuber; in others (e.g. \"Cyclamen hederifolium\") roots come largely from the top of the tuber, suggesting that it is a root tuber. As an example of a combination, juno irises have both bulbs and storage roots.\n\nUnderground storage organs used for food may be generically called root vegetables, although this phrase should not be taken to imply that the class only includes true roots.\n\nSucculents are plants which are adapted to withstand periods of drought by their ability to store moisture in specialized storage organs.\n\n"}
{"id": "16307566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16307566", "title": "Suzette Doctolero", "text": "Suzette Doctolero\n\nSuzette Severo Doctolero (born December 1968) is a Filipino screenwriter for film and television. She is best known for being the creator of \"Encantadia\" in 2005 and the succeeding related television series including the \"Encantadia\" 2016 reboot. She is mostly credited as screenwriter, series creator and creative consultant for GMA Network. Her other works include \"Amaya\"\", Indio \"and \"My Husband's Lover. \"She also wrote the story for the film \"Let the Love Begin\" and became the creative consultant for the television series \"Alyas Robin Hood\" and \"Destined to be Yours\".\n\nDoctolero was raised in Calabanga, Camarines Sur and she is the granddaughter of Buenviges Narvadez, a Filipino comedienne and actress in the 1930s. She studied high school at José Rizal College (which later became José Rizal University) and went to college at the Polytechnic University of the Philippines (PUP) on different courses. She first took an accounting course, then clinical psychology and lastly bachelor of arts in Filipino. When she was in PUP, she joined theater groups Dulaang Kalayaan and Dulaang Bonificacio where she portrayed Gregoria de Jesus in one of the plays.\n\nAt age of 19 in 1988, Doctolero's adviser, Angie Ferro, hired her as production assistant for Balintataw TV. After her stint at Balintataw TV, she tried to write romantic novels and with the help of Lualhati Bautista, her work entitled \"Ako si Alex, Babae\" (I'm Alex, a Woman) was published by Anvil Publishing. In the 1990s, Doctolero ventured in selling her works to different publishers, head writers, editors and producers. She also contributed to the story writing of Viva Television shows.\n\nIn the later part of her career, Doctolero became a screenwriter for television series of GMA Network. She is one of the writers of \"Kirara, Ano Ang Kulay ng Pag-ibig?\" and \"Sana Ay Ikaw Na Nga\". \"Encantadia\" is her very first project as head writer and her first work in the telefantasya genre, which she created for GMA Network. Her other credited works for GMA Network include \"Amaya\", \"Indio\" and \"My Husband's Lover.\" She also wrote the script for some of the episodes of \"Daisy Siete\", which was produced by Focus Entertainment and shown also in GMA Network. She also wrote scripts for the television adaptation of \"Lupin\", \"Joaquin Bordado\", \"Totoy Bato\", \"Gagambino\" and \"Panday Kids\" but most of these series did not get high ratings, thus, she no longer do adaptations. For her film credits, she wrote the screenplay for \"Let the Love Begin\" and \"\".\n\nIn 2016, Doctolero became the creative consultant for GMA Network's \"Alyas Robin Hood\", which tells the story about Jose Paulo \"Pepe\" de Jesus who is a lawyer being accused of killing her father and then he faked his death to become the vigilante with a bow and arrow. Many netizens pointed out that \"Alyas Robin Hood\" has some similarities with \"Arrow\" by The CW. Stephen Amell who portrays the title character Oliver Queen/Green Arrow in Arrow also commented about \"Alyas Robin Hood\" through a Facebook post. Doctolero defended the show and she said that \"Alyas Robin Hood\" is based on the legend of Robin Hood, an English folklore, and not based on \"Arrow\". She also further explained that the story of Robin Hood is already under public domain and it has been used as master plot by many writers. She also mentioned that there was a similar case in 2007 when she wrote the television adaptation of \"Lupin\". Writers of the earlier adaptations of \"Lupin\" in Japan sent a demand letter to GMA Network but the writers did not win because \"Lupin\" is based on a French character created by Maurice Leblanc, which is already in public domain.\n\nDoctolero was also the creative consultant of \"Destined to be Yours\" in 2017, headlined by Alden Richards and Maine Mendoza (collectively known asg AlDub), which was their first prime time series. In April 2017, Doctolero commented on Twitter about the series saying that the first weeks of \"Destined to be Yours\" were flop or did not rate well but it later had good ratings after changing the direction of the story. AlDub fans and other netizens had mixed reactions on her social media posts. This prompted GMA Network's Senior Vice President for Entertainment TV Lilybeth Rasonable to release an official statement regarding the show. According to Rasonable, \"Destined to be Yours\" received higher ratings against the competition since the pilot episode until the posting of her official statement and Doctolero tweets are her own personal opinions and do not reflect the stand of GMA Network. Doctolero later apologized for choosing the wrong words about the AlDub series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58703188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58703188", "title": "Symbolic equation", "text": "Symbolic equation\n\nSymbolic equation is the term used in Kleinian psychoanalysis for states of thinking which equate current objects with those of the past, rather than finding a \"resemblance\" between the two sets.\n\nHanna Segal developed the concept of the symbolic equation in the 1950s, during her examination of concrete thinking in the schizophrenic. Its roots however have been traced back as far as Freud's \"Studies on Hysteria\" of 1895, where he noted how a phrase like a 'stab in the heart' could be concretised in terms of the original physical sensations behind it, so that \"we find a symbolic version in concrete images and sensations of more artificial turns of speech\".\n\nSymbolic equations have been connected to the splitting of the paranoid-schizoid position; alternatively they can be seen as the result of a failure to make distinctions between self and others, or between real and idealised objects.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31767154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31767154", "title": "Taparita language", "text": "Taparita language\n\nTaparita is an extinct language of the Amazon.\n"}
{"id": "27646583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646583", "title": "The Bible League of Canada", "text": "The Bible League of Canada\n\nBible League Canada, founded in 1948, is a charitable organization whose mission is to place Bibles into the hands of men, women and young people who are hungry for the Living Word of God. They do this through four strategic ministry programs including church planter training, adult Bible-based literacy programs, children's ministries, and supporting Christians persecuted for their faith. The organization seeks to bring the Christian message of Jesus Christ to people around the world because they believe that when people come into a relationship with Jesus through the Bible, lives are transformed from the inside out. The organization’s total revenue for fiscal year 2011 was $9.88 million. Of this amount, 56.59% ($5.6 million) is provided by Bibles for Missions Thrift Stores, Canada. Bible League Canada is also a part of the Forum of Bible Agencies International.\n\nIn 1948, The Bible League of Canada began as the Canadian affiliate of the American Home Bible League. Throughout the 1950s, the affiliate organization distributed Bibles door-to-door through local churches and various outreach ministries. The organization changed in 1959 when Jo Vander Boom was appointed to manage the organization's activities. In 1960, Jo's husband, John Vander Boom, was appointed as the first Canadian director and officially changed the name of the organization to the Canadian Home Bible League in 1962.\nIn 1971, the organization was incorporated and became a legal entity separate from the American Home Bible League. The same year, an office in Weston, Ontario became the first purchased property, and an appeal for Cuba became the organization's first international project.\n\nVander Boom formed a group of prominent evangelical church leaders who lent their endorsements to the ministry of the Canadian Home Bible League. This action started the attainment of interdenominational support which continues to influence Bible League Canada today.\n\nOn December 11, 1984, the name of the organization was changed to the World Home Bible League of Canada, reflecting the organization's increasing commitment to international ministry. The present name, The Bible League of Canada, became official in 1992. In 1994, offices were moved to the present location in Burlington, Ontario. In 2007, the organization began operating its own international ministries apart from the U.S. Bible League operations.\n\nThe Bible League of Canada’s revenue comes from individual donors, churches, corporations, foundations, and Bibles for Missions Thrift Stores. In 2009, 90% of funds raised were sent to their ministry programs around the world, 4.5% of its funding was spent on administration and 4.5% was spent on fund raising.\n\nThe Bible League of Canada provides Bibles and community training worldwide by partnering with churches and mission organizations in India, South East Asia, Eurasia, South America and Canada. The focus of the ministry involves four strategic ministry programs: \n\nWhile other organizations come with water, food and education… Bible League Canada comes with the Living Word of God. When individuals come into a relationship with Jesus through His Words, lives are transformed from the inside out. This transformation impacts families and communities. The individual and community is inspired to become self-sustaining and then water, food and education are generated by the community itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43572937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43572937", "title": "Thriyacharya", "text": "Thriyacharya\n\n\"Adi Shankaracharya\", \"Ramanujacharya\" and \"Madhvacharya\" are considered to be the pillars of Vedantic tradition of spiritual India.\n\nShankaracharya proposed or rather popularized Advaitha Vedanta. Advaitha system of Vedanta was first proposed by Gaudapada who was the Guru of Shankaracharya's Guru Govinda Bhagavatpada. Advaitha means non-dual.\n\nRamanujacharya had a totally different experience than Shankaracharya. During the time of Ramanuja, followers of Advaitha tradition in Tamil Nadu had distorted the teachings of Shankaracharya so much that Ramanuja started correcting them.\n\nMadhvacharya's work is the most interesting of the three. He took a daring step of explaining Prasthanatraya in the light of Dvaitha philosophy that is philosophically against Advaitha and Vishishtadvaitha.\n"}
{"id": "6912505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6912505", "title": "VNI", "text": "VNI\n\nVNI Software Company is the Westminster, California–based, family-owned developer of various education, entertainment, office, and utility software packages.\n\nVNI was founded in 1987 by Hồ Thành Việt to develop software that eases Vietnamese language use on computers. Among their products were the VNI Encoding and VNI Input Method.\n\nIn the 1990s, Microsoft recognized the potential of VNI's products and incorporated VNI Input Method into Windows 95 Vietnamese Edition and MSDN, in use worldwide.\n\nUpon Microsoft's unauthorized use of these technologies, VNI took Microsoft to court over the matter. Microsoft settled the case out of court, withdrew the input method from their entire product line, and developed their own input method. It has, although virtually unknown, appeared in every Windows release since Windows 98.\n\nDespite the growing popularity of Unicode in computing, the VNI Encoding (see below) is still in wide use by Vietnamese speakers both in Vietnam and abroad. All professional printing facilities in the Little Saigon neighborhood of Orange County, California continue to use the VNI Encoding when processing Vietnamese text. For this reason, print jobs submitted using the VNI Character Set are compatible with local printers.\n\nVNI invented, popularized, and commercialized an input method and an encoding, the VNI Character Set, to assist computer users entering Vietnamese on their computers. The user can type using only ASCII characters found on standard computer keyboard layouts. Because the Vietnamese alphabet uses a complex system of diacritical marks, the keyboard needs 133 alphanumeric keys and a Shift key to cover all possible characters.\n\nOriginally, VNI's input method utilized function keys (F1, F2, ...) to enter the tone marks, which later turned out to be problematic, as the operating system used those keys for other purposes. VNI then turned to the numerical keys along the top of the keyboard (as opposed to the numpad) for entering tone marks. This arrangement survives today, but users also have the option of customizing the keys used for tone marks.\n\nWith VNI Tan Ky mode on, the user can type in diacritical marks anywhere within a word, and the marks will appear at their proper locations. For example, the word \"trường\", which means \"school\", can be typed in the following ways:\n\nWith the release of VNI Tan Ky 4 in the 1990s, VNI freed users from having to remember where to correctly insert tone marks within a word, because, as long as the user enters all the required characters and tone marks, the software will group them correctly. This feature is especially useful for newcomers to the language.\n\nVNI Auto Accent is the company's most recent software release (2006), with the purpose of alleviating repetitive strain injury (RSI) caused by prolonged use of computer keyboards. Auto Accent helps reduce the number of keystrokes needed to type each word by automatically adding diacritical marks for the user. The user must still enter every base letter in the word.\n\nThe VNI Encoding uses two characters to represent one Vietnamese vowel character, therefore removing the need for control characters to represent one Vietnamese character, a problematic system found in TCVN (VSCII), or using two different fonts such as in VPSKeys, one containing lowercase characters and the other uppercase characters.\n\nThis solution is more portable between different versions of Windows and between different platforms. However, due to the presence of multiple characters in a file to represent one written character increases the file size. The increased file size can usually be accounted for by compressing the data into a file format such as ZIP.\n\nThe use of Vietnamese Quoted-Readable (VIQR), a convention for writing in Vietnamese using ASCII characters, began during the Vietnam War, when typewriters were the main tool for word processing. Because the U.S. military required a way to represent Vietnamese scripts accurately on official documents, VIQR was invented for the military. Due to its longstanding use, VIQR was a natural choice for computer word processing, prior to the appearance of VNI, VPSKeys, VISCII, and Unicode. It is still widely used for information exchange on computers, but is not desirable for design and layout, due to its cryptic appearance.\n\nVNI was the only well-known company to fully recognize the potential of VIQR. VIQR's main issue, however, was the difficulty of reading VIQR text, especially for inexperienced computer users. VNI created and released a free font called \"VNI-Internet Mail\". VNI-Internet Mail utilized the VIQR encoding and VNI's two-character technique to give VIQR text a more natural appearance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14880567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14880567", "title": "Vaikkath Pachu Moothathu", "text": "Vaikkath Pachu Moothathu\n\nVaikathu Paramesvara Sivadvija, popularly known as Vaikath Pachu Moothathu, was a scholar of the princely state of Travancore. A scholar of Ayurveda, Sanskrit, Malayalam and history, he wrote the first autobiography in Malayalam and established the first institution for learning the traditional Indian ayurvedic medicine, which developed to become Government Ayurveda College, Thiruvananthapuram.\n\nMoothathu was born on 25 Edavam 989 Kolla era (1814 AD) in Vaikom, Travancore state and was adopted by a Moothathu family called Vattapalli Matom at Suchindrum to perform temple rites and rituals. The family lacked a male child who could do those duties. The family of Vattapalli Matom is the Tantri of the Suchindrum Thanumalayan temple from where one male member (usually the eldest) must perform the rites and rituals of the temple.\n\nMoothathu learned Ayurveda, a system of traditional medicine native to India. He was influenced by Vahata's (Vagbhata) Astangahridaya and started learning it. He learned Astangahrdaya in the Kollam Era 1018 (Kanni 2) and completed on the 29th of Thulam 1018 (1843 AD). He wrote Sri Rama Charitram Mahakavyam (1037 KOLLAM ERA), Thiruvitamcore Charitram (narrating the legends and facts up to the 1036 Kollam Era (1861 AD) i.e. up to the period of Maharaja Ayilyam Thirunal).Hradyapriya(1040 Kollam Era) 1865 AD and Sukhasadhakam(1057 Kollam Era) 1882 AD are two important works by Sri Pachu Moothathu on Ayurveda and can be considered as a pragmatic commentary of Vahata's Astangahridaya. He insisted in transferring the knowledge of Ayurveda to ordinary people and his book \"Sukhasadhagam\" is an attempt in this direction.\n\nHe was the Kottaram Vaidyan (official ayurvedic physician) of Travancore and was awarded with the Veera Sringala by the maharaja, Ayilyam Thirunal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7556198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7556198", "title": "Vũ Trọng Phụng", "text": "Vũ Trọng Phụng\n\nVũ Trọng Phụng (Hanoi, 20 October 1912 - Hanoi, 13 October 1939) was a popular Vietnamese author and journalist, who is considered to be one of the most influential figures of 20th century Vietnamese literature. Today, several of his works are taught in Vietnamese schools.\n\nVũ Trọng Phụng's ancestral village was Hảo village, Mỹ Hào District, Hưng Yên Province, yet he was born, grew up, and died in Hanoi. The fact that his father died of tuberculosis when he was only 7 months old resulted in Vũ Trụng Phụng's being brought up mainly by his mother. After finishing primary school, sixteen-year-old Vũ Trọng Phụng was forced to stop schooling and earn his own living.\nIn 1939, he died from tuberculosis at the age of twenty-six (twenty-seven by the Vietnamese system of counting age), a week before his twenty-seventh birthday.\n\nVũ Trọng Phụng wrote prolifically during the 1930s, and \"produced a body of writing that\", according to Zinoman, \"stands today as the single most remarkable individual achievement in modern Vietnamese literature.\"Although he only wrote for a short span of time, with his first work being the short story \"Chống nạng lên đường\" (\"Set off with crutches\") on the newspaper \"Ngọ báo\" in 1930, he had left an amazing collection of literature works: over 30 short stories, 9 novels, 9 reports, 7 plays, along with a translated play from French, some literature reviews and criticising, and hundreds of articles on the matters of politics, society, and culture. Some excerpts from his publications, for example \"Số đỏ\" (Dumb Luck) and \"Giông Tố\" (The Storm), were taken into Vietnamese literature textbooks. \n\nFamous with the satire in his works, he was compared to Balzac by some critics. However, due to his \"realistic\" descriptions and heavy emphasis on sex, he was called to court by the French authority in Ha Noi for \"outraging morality\" (outrage aux bonnes moeurs). Later on, his works were prohibited to be published or read in North Vietnam because they were \"obscene publications\" until the late 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "54133326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54133326", "title": "WaveNet", "text": "WaveNet\n\nWaveNet is a deep neural network for generating raw audio. It was created by researchers at London-based artificial intelligence firm DeepMind. The technique, outlined in a paper in September 2016, is able to generate relatively realistic-sounding human-like voices by directly modelling waveforms using a neural network method trained with recordings of real speech. Tests with US English and Mandarin reportedly showed that the system outperforms Google's best existing text-to-speech (TTS) systems, although it is still less convincing than actual human speech. WaveNet’s ability to generate raw waveforms means that it can model any kind of audio, including music.\n\nGenerating speech from text is an increasingly common task thanks to the popularity of software such as Apple's Siri, Microsoft’s Cortana, Amazon Alexa and the Google Assistant. \nMost such systems use a variation of a technique that involves concatenated sound fragments together to form recognisable sounds and words. The most common of these is called concatenative TTS. It consists of large library of speech fragments, recorded from a single speaker that are then concatenated to produce complete words and sounds. The result sounds unnatural, with an odd cadence and tone. The reliance on a recorded library also makes it difficult to modify or change the voice.\nAnother technique, known as parametric TTS, uses mathematical models to recreate sounds that are then assembled into words and sentences. The information required to generate the sounds is stored in the parameters of the model. The characteristics of the output speech are controlled via the inputs to the model, while the speech is typically created using a voice synthesiser known as a vocoder. This can also result in unnatural sounding audio.\nWaveNet is a type of feedforward neural network known as a deep convolutional neural network (CNN). In WaveNet, the CNN takes a raw signal as an input and synthesises an output one sample at a time. It does so by sampling from a softmax (i.e. categorical) distribution of a signal value that is encoded using μ-law companding transformation and quantized to 256 possible values. \nIn the 2016 paper, the network was fed real waveforms of speech in English and Mandarin. As these pass through the network, it learns a set of rules to describe how the audio waveform evolves over time. The trained network can then be used to create new speech-like waveforms at 16,000 samples per second. These waveforms include realistic breaths and lip smacks - but do not conform to any language. \nWaveNet is able to accurately model different voices, with the accent and tone of the input correlating with the output. For example, if it is trained with German, it produces German speech. This ability to clone voices has raised ethical concerns about WaveNets ability to mimic the voices of living persons. \nThe capability also means that if the WaveNet is fed other inputs - such as music - its output will be musical. At the time of its release, DeepMind showed that WaveNet could produce waveforms that sound like classical music.\n\nAt the time of its release, DeepMind said that WaveNet required too much computational processing power to be used in real world applications. As of October 2017, Google announced a 1,000-fold performance improvement along with better voice quality. WaveNet was then used to generate Google Assistant voices for US English and Japanese across all Google platforms. At the annual I/O developer conference in May 2018, it was announced that new Google Assistant voices were available and made possible by WaveNet; WaveNet greatly reduced the number of audio recordings that were required to create a voice model by modeling the raw audio of the voice actor samples.\n"}
{"id": "1103986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1103986", "title": "Who's your daddy? (phrase)", "text": "Who's your daddy? (phrase)\n\nWho's your daddy? is a slang expression that, in one use, takes the form of a rhetorical question. It is commonly used as a boastful claim of dominance over the intended listener. It may also be a part of role play between consenting adults or as the cited author ascribes a \"claim of sexual dominance of a man over a woman or another man\". The phrase itself stands out as a noteworthy lyric from the 1968 song \"Time of the Season\" by The Zombies: \"What's your name? Who's your daddy? Is he rich like me?\"\n\nAn early use of the phrase occurs in Gene Wilder's 1975 comedy \"The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes' Smarter Brother\". Sigerson Holmes (Gene Wilder) grills Jenny Hill (Madeline Kahn), the supposed daughter of the British Minister of External Affairs, in a rather unusual interrogation process. While sitting over her almost naked and rather responsive body lying on a couch, he massages her breasts and repeatedly asks her \"Who's Your Father?\".\n\nIn the 1979 film \"Scum\", where the 'Daddy' refers to the inmate who runs the borstal. The character Carlin, played by Ray Winstone, brutally bludgeons Banks, the current Daddy, thus becoming the new Daddy.\n\nWidespread provocative use of the phrase began as early as the late 1980s, largely due to its frequent use in sexually suggestive skits broadcast by a popular syndicated radio shock jock known as \"The Greaseman\". The expression was further popularized in a well known 1991 comedy routine by Dennis Miller. On an early episode of \"The Daily Show\" host Craig Kilborn used the line \"Who's your daddy? Is he rich like me?\", quoting from \"Time of the Season\".\n\nDenzel Washington playing Coach Boone in \"Remember the Titans\" (2000) uses the line to initiate dominance over two student athletes.\n\nIn the film \"Mr. & Mrs. Smith\" (2005), Angelina Jolie speaks the phrase after taking down adversary Brad Pitt.\n\nIn an episode of \"Stargate SG-1\" Jack O'Neill (Richard Dean Anderson) calls out \"Who's your daddy?!\" after finishing off a horde of Replicators, using a new form of weapon.\n\nIn the movie \"Master of Disguise\" (2002), Pistachio Disguisey continually says the phrase as he is sparring with a wooden robot.\n\nThe phrase was used as the title for a quickly cancelled reality television show, \"Who's Your Daddy\"\n\nIn an episode of \"Will & Grace\", Jack, trying to transfer his rapport with Karen to Grace, asks her \"Who's Your Daddy?\" Grace, taken aback, says \"His name is Martin Adler...?\"\n\nIt was also greatly popularized when the Duke basketball team of the late 1990s had T-shirts and hats printed bearing the phrase as they moved towards a possible NCAA basketball championship coached by Coach K.. One variant commonly targeted at residents of Indiana is \"Hoosier Daddy?\" The term \"Hoosier Daddy\" was used during the tenure of Coach Bobby Knight at Indiana University throughout the Midwest as a means of fan excitation. In October 2017, two Indiana University alumni debuted a dope audio show titled \"Hoosier Daddy podcast\". Now considered a 4.5-star production based on iTunes reviews and the claim the hosts are \"classless\" , the weekly show covers all topics concerning the IU Men's Varsity basketball program.\nAlso used in the long-standing one sided wrestling rivalry between David Campbell and Logan Stieber. The former being on the winning end of it. The carrier dome would chant it at Stieber during matches.\n\nIn the 2004 American League Championship Series it was used as a chant by New York Yankees fans against Boston Red Sox pitcher Pedro Martínez (prompted by his previous statement, \"They beat me. They're that good right now. They're that hot. I just tip my hat and call the Yankees my daddy.\").\n\nIn the 2009 World Series, Pedro Martinez once again found himself hearing the \"Who's your daddy\" chants from the Yankees fans, this time as a starting pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies in Games 2 and 6 of the series vs the AL Champion Yankees. The Yankees would come through against him this time, as they were victorious in both games, including the Game 6 series clinching game. Note: Before Pedro walked off the mound on the final game, the chant was raised once more, but morphed a bit... changing from \"Who's Your Daddy?\" to \"Still Your Daddy!\". \n\nIn June 2007, Daddy Yankee released a track called \"Who's Your Daddy?\" on his \"\" album.\n\nIn the computer game \"\" by Blizzard Entertainment, players may enter the cheat code \"WhosYourDaddy\" to cause their army to become invulnerable and instantly kill enemies.\n\n\"Who's Your Daddy?\" is also the title of an online multiplayer game currently gaining traction in the indie gaming community. Players take either the role of a father rapidly baby-proofing his house until his wife gets home, or the role of a baby vehemently trying to kill itself. The game reached full funding on its Kickstarter Page on October 14, 2015, and was released December 23, 2015.\n\n"}
