{"id": "1629442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1629442", "title": "1949 World Federalist California Resolution", "text": "1949 World Federalist California Resolution\n\nThe 1949 World Federalist California Resolution was a measure passed by the California legislature that called on the United States Congress to amend the United States Constitution to allow for U.S. participation in a federal world government. It was introduced at the request of United World Federalists leaders Alan Cranston and Bob Walker.\n"}
{"id": "53000611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53000611", "title": "Access to public information in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Access to public information in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right to access information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right to access public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law. \n\nBosnia and Herzegovina was one of the first countries in the Balkans to adopt the Freedom of Access to Information Act, at the State level in 2000, and then in 2001 in both of its entities, namely the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska. However, according to some experts the law requires changes to address a series of shortcomings that have been identified over the years.\n\nDue to the specific circumstances and the way in which it was created, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, annex IV of Dayton Peace Agreement did not pay much attention to the right to information. The development of freedom of information legislation was initiated with a decision of the High Representative in 1999. The Decision asked the State and the Entities to adopt such a legislation. The consultation process for drafting the law involved the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)’s legal experts and extensive public discussions with citizens and civil society groups. The Act was adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Government in October 2000, and the Republika Srpska Government in May 2001.\n\nThe laws establish a general right of the public to access the information held by public authorities/organs “to the greatest extent possible consistent with the public interest”. Therefore, the laws establish a general obligation of making all relevant information public, except for some cases falling under the exceptions defined by the law. Access to public information applies to information held by all public organs (legislative, judiciary, executive and administrative) and regardless of their format (written documents, digital data, audio or video records, etc.) as well as to legal persons owner or controlled by public bodies, such as public enterprises, public schools, universities, state agencies, etc. On the contrary, it does not apply to private organisations, private companies and the commercial sector. The laws entitle every person, regardless of his or her citizenship, nationality, ethnicity, or place of residence, the right to access to public information. Journalists and media outlet do not have more rights compared with other requesters. The prescribed period of time for obtaining the requested information is 15 days from the submission of the request. Under the FOI laws, public authorities are both obliged to provide access to documents and records and to publish the most important information without a request (proactive disclosure). Rules for proactive publication apply to information on institutions’ budget, regular activities and decision-making.\n\nIn line with international standards, access to information laws in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Republika Srpska establish that in some cases public information can be withheld on a legal basis. Specifically, three cases of exceptions are foreseen: first, when there is the possibility that disclosing information can cause a significant damage to legitimate functions of the government (national security, defence, monetary policy issues, prevention of crime, etc.); second, the exceptions can be applied to protect commercial interests; and, third, to protect personal interests and privacy of a third party. The application of these exceptions is not automatic: in effect, in order to reject the application on the basis of the exceptions established in the law, authorities have to make the public interest test, meaning considering whether and how the disclosure of information is harming other protected interests.The public interest test is inspired by the most advanced international standards on the right of access to public information. Compared with similar laws in the Western Balkans, only the laws of Serbia and Croatia prescribe such a test. Exceptions are applied only after a case-by-case analysis of every case and specific circumstances related to each request. Labeling a whole category of information as exemption is forbidden.\n\nIn Bosnia and Herzegovina some NGOs contribute to enforce the law on access to public information as well as to monitor its application and collect relevant data through the submission of FOI requests and the start of appeal procedures. This is the case, for instance, of the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network (BIRN), Transparency International (Bosnia and Herzegovina), or the Sarajevo-based Center for Investigative Journalism (CIN).\n\nAccording to a report prepared by the Association of journalists of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the country’s Press Council, the vast majority of Bosnians (around 93%) believe that there are several limitations to the right of access to public information in practice. At the same, public opinion in Bosnia and Herzegovina is largely not fully aware of their rights with regard to access to public information.\n\nWhen it comes to the application of the law, problems range from inconsistent interpretation of the law by different public bodies, unwillingness to apply it, to non-harmonisation of FOI laws with other laws.\n\nSpecifically, one of the major deficiency of freedom of information laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the weakness of the provisions concerning the appeal procedures in case the request is rejected. The FOI law of the Republika Srpska does not stipulate an appeal procedure at all. Another problem concerns the lack of compliance with other existing laws that exclude or significantly reduce the right to free access to information in practice both in the Federation and in the Republika Srpska. Also, experts have identified among the shortcomings hindering the application of FOI laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina the lack of an effective system for monitoring their application. Only a small number of public bodies comply with the obligation to publish the information on the number of received questions related to freedom of information on a regular basis.\n\nIn 2013-16 in order to test the implementation of FOI laws, the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network (BIRN) submitted a series of requests for accessing documents to different public bodies in the country at all level. Half of BIRN’s requests for information were rejected, while the remaining 50 per cent were only partially granted.\n\nAlso, according to Transparency International - Bosnia and Herzegovina only 40% of public enterprises in Republika Srpska and 27% in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides the requested information within the timeframe established by the law. In 37% of cases examined by Transparency International the fulfillment of the procedure lasts more than one month, even if the law stipulates that the information requested must be provided in maximum 15 days.\n\n"}
{"id": "25756960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25756960", "title": "Andrew Arato", "text": "Andrew Arato\n\nAndrew Arato ( ; born 22 August 1944) is a Professor of Political and Social Theory in the Department of Sociology at The New School, best known for his influential book \"Civil Society and Political Theory\", coauthored with Jean L. Cohen. He is also known for his work on critical theory, constitutions, and has been from 1994 to 2014 co-editor of the journal \"Constellations\" with Nancy Fraser.\n\nArato first attended Queens College in New York City, completing his B.A. in history in 1966. Subsequently, Arato moved to The University of Chicago to complete his M.A. in 1968 and Ph.D. in 1975 with a dissertation entitled 'The Search for the Revolutionary Subject: The Philosophy and Social Theory of the Young Lukács 1910-1923' under the guidance of Leonard Krieger and William H. McNeill. In preparation for his dissertation, Arato conducted preliminary research at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in the spring of 1970 under the guidance of Budapest School scholars Ágnes Heller, György Markus, and Mihály Vajda.\n\nA distinct chronology defines Arato's intellectual biography, which often parallels and was inspired by the evolution in thinking of opposition intellectuals in the former communist countries of Eastern Europe and, most especially, in Hungary, the country of Arato's birth. At the same time, much of his work was hammered out in conjunction with his longtime intellectual partner Jean L. Cohen, and strongly influenced by the philosophical and sociological work of Jürgen Habermas.\n\nArato's intellectual itinerary can be simplified into four stages: It begins with efforts to revitalize Marxism by drawing on a Hegelian Marxist philosophy of “praxis.” In a second phase, Arato worked through the corpus of Western Marxian thinkers to construct a critical theory of state socialist societies. Phase three was marked by a turn to a post-Marxist emphasis on civil society as a moral and analytical category meant to further the project of democratization in both the East and West. Finally, in his latest work, Arato engages in comparative studies of recent constitution making and has developed a theory of “post-sovereign” constitution making.\n\nThe first phase of Arato's academic work emphasized the recovery of an early humanistic Marxism. Such Hegelian Marxism highlighted the active constitution of the social order through “praxis,” that is, the collective action of interacting groups. Arato's philosophical investigations here paralleled the thought of critical intellectuals in the East and especially the “Budapest School” in a “renaissance of Marxism” during the 1960s and early 1970s. This perspective was also manifested in the philosophical outlook of the American journal of radical theory \"Telos\". Arato served on \"Telos’s\" editorial board from 1971 to 1984.\n\nArato's emphasis on social praxis and the concomitant categories of subjectivity, culture and alienation was displayed in his dissertation on the early 20th-century Marxian philosophy of György Lukács. As Arato notes in his 1979 book, \"The Young Lukacs and the Origins of Western Marxism\", the elaboration of a critical Western Marxism with its emphasis on intentional collective action or praxis was also intended as a critique of the authoritarian communist governments in Eastern Europe. Arato's praxis theory and Western Marxism in general privileged the active, democratic participation of groups and individuals in their supposedly collective self-determination, and they criticized orthodox communist parties with their claims to know the true interests of the working class and to be able to make the proper decisions for them in a form of “substitutionalism.” In contrast to the control of the communist state with its enforced passivity of working classes, “true socialism,” said Western Marxists, should be democracy – democracy extended from the political sphere to the economy and indeed to all social institutions. This implicit critique of state socialist societies, however, largely operated at the level of abstract social philosophy. As Hungarian critics Gyorgy Bence and Janos Kis noted, this rebirth of Marxian philosophy in the East “sidestepped the problem of basic class antagonism” intrinsic to the socialist dictatorships of Eastern Europe.\n\nIn the second stage of his intellectual itinerary, Arato made this exact turn from social philosophy to the critical analysis of East European social formations during the late 1970s–1980s.\n\nHis operating procedure was somewhat scholastic. One after another, Arato examined the best of neo-Marxist analyses of state socialism written by such authors as Herbert Marcuse, Cornelius Castoriadis, Rudolf Bahro, Habermas, and Iván Szelényi. He critically assessed the adequacy of their efforts to analyze the social dynamics, stratification, crisis potentiality and legitimating ideology of state socialist societies. In all this, Arato sought to model himself on Marx by analyzing and criticizing the exploitative, hierarchical dimensions of the social formation. He recognized, however, that the theoretical tools offered by Marx himself – that is, historical materialism – were often used by state socialist societies to veil their politically based class inequalities, not expose them.\n\nFurther, Arato argued that Marxian writers were typically trapped by the problematic of Marx's philosophy of history, which could only conceive of two possible modern industrialized social formations – either capitalism or a progressive socialist society. Instead, Arato, along with a number of East European theorists, sought to analyze state socialist societies as a new, hierarchical, exploitative social formation “sui generis”; he understood the communist societies as a unique social formation with its own particular mechanisms of control, exploitation and crisis. Arato argued that this type of society could not be understood by focusing on market or economic relations, instead it rested on a type of prerogative political control operating through the bureaucratic state.\n\nArato's essays were collected in the 1993 volume \"From Neo-Marxism to Democratic Theory: Essays on the Critical Theory of Soviet-Type Societies\". Despite the richness of his efforts, Arato saw little connection between his exercises in social system analysis and active social movements aiming to transform state socialism. Indeed, he noted that his type of structural analysis blocked perception of what was new about the rising social movements in Eastern Europe and most especially Poland's Solidarność, which emerged in 1980. In the late 1980s, Arato “disengaged” with his project of developing a critical theory of authoritarian socialism for a theory that seemed to better capture what was new and essential about the rising social movements and oppositions in Eastern Europe, while also offering a powerful tool to criticize the inadequacies of Western capitalist democracies, that is, the theory of civil society.\n\nThis transition, where Arato left his work to the gnawing criticism of mice (to repeat Marx's quip), paralleled similar shifts among East European critical intellectuals. But at the same time, this turn could be said to reflect intrinsic limits to his original project. Arato noted that abstract (ideal typical) models of social system dynamics often failed to incorporate considerations of national histories and cultural traditions, along with inherited social institutions. And, it is precisely those contested national cultural traditions that form the symbolic resources for movements opposing the authoritarian socialist state (and also, in contrast, legitimating the rule of the communist state).\n\nFurthermore, such analyses of systems reproduction (dissecting the dynamics and instrumental logics of state and markets) typically ignores the normative and institutionalized categories of the lifeworld and civil society that might support an autonomous social domain of solidarity and open public communication, which is also the terrain of social movements.\n\nIt is precisely to these ideal categories of social autonomy, or civil society, that Arato shifted in his third stage. Such a change in intellectual direction was clearly sparked by rising opposition movement of Solidarność in the exciting developments in Poland in 1980–81, resulting in Arato's early articulation of the category of civil society in his oft-cited 1981 essay “Civil Society vs. the State: Poland 1980-1981.”\n\nBy civil society, Arato (and writers in Poland, Hungary, but also France and South America) meant a social space outside state or corporate control where groups and individuals could engage in something approximating free association and communication among equals. This social space ideally entailed whole sets of laws, rights, and institutions to help secure individual autonomy and public freedom.\n\nIn civil society's fully developed modern form, Arato wrote, such a realm is protected by legal rights, possesses channels to influence the separate institutions of economy and state, and has a developed organizational life and media organizations to enhance social communication and strengthen social relations. Nowhere were all these requirements fully met and the ideal of civil society thus offered a basis for social movements seeking to enrich and extend its ideals everywhere.\n\nFor Arato, this new focus on civil society constituted, in part, a rejection of the traditional Marxian problematic for a post-Marxist one. He and intellectuals in Eastern Europe criticized Marx's advocacy of a radical democratic reunification of state and society in a supposedly collective free social order. They rejected Marx's idea of ending of the distinction of state and society (or state and market), along with his conception of an unalienated collective subject, totally undivided and in control of itself. The experience of Eastern Europe and Russia suggested this utopian merging of government and society inevitably resulted in authoritarian forms of rule. It resulted either in the loss of independent freedom of civil society under the embracing control of the party-state or else it saw regression in economic rationality as the community or state subjected the economy to their traditional norms and political calculations.\n\nInstead, partly for normative reasons and partly for strategic reasons (to prevent repression from the state or USSR invasion), opposition movements in Eastern Europe (and throughout the world) sought not to take over the government but only to strengthen the forms of freedom in a modern civil society, that is, forms of solidarity, free communicative interaction, and active democratic participation in autonomous publics and a plurality of associations. The goal—Arato argued for Eastern Europe, but soon extended this model to the West—should be the protection and indeed the strengthening of civil society and its democratization and institution building separate from the strategic instrumental logics and power hierarchies of the state and capitalist economy. In collaboration with Jean Cohen, Arato concluded that “the idea of the reconstruction and democratization of civil society could become the foundation of a critical theory of all modern societies, including the West.”\n\nIn the late 1970s into the 1980s and beyond, the problematic of civil society spread across Europe, Latin American and Asia as a powerful theory and ideal that could guide social movements in obtainable advances in freedom. “For better or worse,” Arato noted, “Jean Cohen and myself led the discussion [of civil society] in the United States.”\n\nHere too Arato drew heavily on the work of Habermas, especially Habermas's book on the rise and decline of the public sphere. Arato noted that Habermas's writings had a “uniquely important role in the rediscovery, critique and reconstruction of the early modern concept of civil society.” But in addition, Habermas's later social theory articulated an ideal model of modern society's “differentiated” structure and the need to defend the separate institutions of communicative social interaction and the cultural traditions proper to the lifeworld. Furthermore, Habermas's theory suggested to a tripartite model of society, where civil society was the institutional structure of society's cultural lifeworld and was opposed to the strategic and instrumental rationality embodied in the economy and state. With this three-part model of ideal social organization — state, economy and civil society — Arato could make the idea of civil society and its strengthening a critical tool in Western capitalist societies.\n\nBetween his initial 1981 and 1982 articles on Poland and civil society, a full decade passed before he and Jean Cohen issued their magnum opus: \"Civil Society and Political Theory\". Despite its late publication and its intimidating size at 794 pages, the volume quickly became a much-cited classic. In October 2010, Google Scholar listed over 2,600 publications citing the book.\nDuring this time, Arato remained associated with the radical journal \"Telos\". However, the relevance and vitality of the category of civil society for the West became an object for vigorous dispute at \"Telos\", most especially by Paul Piccone, the journal's pugnacious editor. Piccone elaborated his own perspective under the rubric of “artificial negativity,” a theory that failed to see any autonomous cultural dynamics in the current U.S. civil society outside of the state's manipulation and control of a supposedly atomized, narcissistic population of consumers. In the ensuing debates, Arato and Cohen ended their long association with the journal in 1987.\n\n1989 was an epochal year in world history, with the liberation of East European countries from Soviet dominance, the transformation of the USSR, and negotiated transformations of the governments and constitutions of Eastern Europe in 1989–90.\n\nThe unique nature of the transitions and the powerful intellectual and political issues of writing a new constitution soon became Arato's prime target of intellectual investigation. He closely followed the political debate surrounding the drafting of constitutions in Hungary, where he maintained continued with such critical intellectuals as Janos Kis, co-founder and first chair of the Alliance of Free Democrats, Hungary's liberal party until 1991. In 1996–97, Arato served as a consultant for the Hungarian Parliament on constitutional issues. In the ensuing years, he published commentary and analysis of constitutional issues in Nepal, Turkey, South Africa and Iraq after the U.S. invasion of that nation in 2003. His analysis of the creation of a new constitution in Iraq resulted in his 2009 book: \"Constitution Making under Occupation: The Politics of Imposed Revolution in Iraq.\n\nArato elaborated a theory of “post-sovereign” constitution making, which he considered a key political innovation occasioned by the construction of negotiated transitions from dictatorship to new democratic constitutions in Eastern Europe, but also in South Africa, Spain and other countries. He believed that this particular form of constitution making had pronounced advantages politically and normatively over the traditional model. He declared, “1989 did produce something dramatically new: a political paradigm of radical transformation ..., yielding a historically new, superior model of constitutional creation beyond the revolutionary democratic European models.”\n\nAccording to Arato, the post-sovereign model typically entailed a two-stage process of transition from dictatorship to constitutional democracy. First were initial roundtable negotiations with the power holders and all significant social voices. This negotiation established the ground rules for the subsequent stage, where an elected assembly wrote the new constitution. A constitutional court gave significant overview to the process ensuring that the constitutional assembly abided by the ground rules of the roundtable. Ideally, Arato argued, the process should be characterized by broad social inclusion, equality, transparency and publicity.\n\nBy \"post sovereignty,\" Arato meant that the creation of the constitution abandoned the mythology that it was being issued by the people themselves as ultimate sovereign authority, speaking directly in an unmediated form. Such a mythology, Arato said, often had authoritarian consequences, resulting in a leader or party claiming to represent the people without needing any special limits or rights to ensure that the populace could actually have a voice in political decision making. Such a process, besides remedying past deficiencies, would also address the conundrum of political legitimacy outlined by thinkers such as Jacques Derrida and Giorgio Agamben, who noted that democracies always contained an undemocratic, illegitimate, arbitrary, even violent moment in their founding.\n\n= Published books =\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3019808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3019808", "title": "Arbitrariness", "text": "Arbitrariness\n\nArbitrariness is the quality of being \"determined by chance, whim, or impulse, and not by necessity, reason, or principle\".\n\nArbitrary decisions are not necessarily the same as random decisions. For example, during the 1973 oil crisis, Americans were allowed to purchase gasoline only on odd-numbered days if their license plate was odd, and on even-numbered days if their license plate was even. The system was well-defined and not random in its restrictions; however, since license plate numbers are completely unrelated to a person's fitness to purchase gasoline, it was still an arbitrary division of people. Similarly, schoolchildren are often organized by their surname in alphabetical order, a non-random yet still arbitrary method, at least in cases where surnames are irrelevant.\n\n\"Arbitrary\" comes from the Latin \"arbitrarius\", the source of \"arbiter\"; someone who is tasked to judge some matter. An arbitrary legal judgment is a decision made at the discretion of the judge, not one that is fixed by law. In some countries, a prohibition of arbitrariness is enshrined into the constitution. Article 9 of the Swiss Federal Constitution theoretically overrides even democratic decisions in prohibiting arbitrary government action. The US Supreme Court has overturned laws for having \"no rational basis.\" A recent study of the U.S. asylum system suggests that arbitrariness in decision-making might be the cause of large disparities in outcomes between different adjudicators, a phenomenon described as refugee roulette.\n\nArticle 330 of the Russian penal code defines 'Arbitrariness' as a specific crime, but with a very broad definition encompassing any 'actions contrary to the order presented by a law'.\n\nArbitrary actions are closely related to teleology, the study of purpose. Actions lacking a \"telos\", a goal, are necessarily arbitrary. With no end to measure against, there can be no standard applied to choices, so all decisions are alike. Note that arbitrary or random methods in the standard sense of \"arbitrary\" may not qualify as arbitrary choices philosophically, if they were done in furtherance of a larger purpose; in the examples above, discipline in school and avoiding overcrowding at gas stations.\n\nNihilism is the philosophy that believes that there is no purpose in the universe, and that \"every\" choice is arbitrary. According to nihilism, the universe contains no value and is essentially meaningless. Because the universe and all of its constituents contain no higher goal for us to make subgoals from, all aspects of human life and experiences are completely arbitrary. There is no right or wrong decision, thought or practice, and whatever choice a human being makes is just as meaningless and empty as any other choice he or she could have made.\n\nMany brands of theism, the belief in a deity or deities, believe that everything has a purpose and that \"nothing\" is arbitrary. In these philosophies, God created the universe for a reason, and every event flows from that. Even seemingly random events cannot escape God's hand and purpose. This is somewhat related to the argument from design, the argument for God's existence because a purpose can be found in the universe.\n\nArbitrariness is also related to ethics, the philosophy of decision-making. Even if a person has a goal, they may choose to attempt to achieve it in ways that may be considered arbitrary. Rationalism holds that knowledge comes about through intellectual calculation and deduction; many rationalists (though not all) apply this to ethics as well. All decisions should be made through reason and logic, not via whim or how one \"feels\" what is right. Randomness may occasionally be acceptable as part of a subtask in furtherance of a larger goal, but not in general.\n\nIn semiotics, the general theory of signs, sign systems, and sign processes, Saussure introduced the notion of arbitrariness according to which there is no necessary connection between the material sign (or \"signifier\") and the entity it refers to or denotes as its meaning (or \"signified\") as a mental concept or real object. \n\nSpontaneous arbitration...\n\nIn mathematics, arbitrary normally means \"any;\" for instance, an arbitrary division of a set or an arbitrary permutation of a sequence. Its use implies generality and that a statement does not only apply to special cases – \"you may select any choice possible, and this statement will still hold.\" A simple example would be \"Given an arbitrary integer, multiplying it by two will result in an even number.\"\n\nEven further, the implication is that generality will hold even if you have an opponent choose the item in question. In some ways \"arbitrary\" is here synonymous with \"worst-case\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57947420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57947420", "title": "Benalla affair", "text": "Benalla affair\n\nThe Benalla affair () is a political and judicial case involving Alexandre Benalla, who served as a security officer and deputy chief of staff to French President Emmanuel Macron. On 18 July 2018, the newspaper \"Le Monde\" identified him in footage as the person who beat up a young protester during the 2018 May Day demonstrations in Paris while impersonating a police officer.\n\nFollowing the publication of the report, the Paris public prosecutor opened a preliminary investigation on 19 July concerning \"violence, usurpation of the functions of a police officer and using signs reserved for public authorities\". On 20 July, the Élysée announced that Benalla would be dismissed. On 22 July, Benalla was placed under formal investigation additionally for \"concealment of a violation of professional secrecy\" and \"concealment of the misuse of images from a video surveillance system\". An accomplice, Vincent Crase, was also placed under formal investigation, as well as three police officers for illegally transmitting video surveillance to Benalla. Parts of the French political class media questioned the Élysée's responsibility in the case for its apparent concealment of the case from the public prosecutor.\n\nBoth the National Assembly and Senate launched parliamentary inquiries into the affair, with Interior Minister Gérard Collomb, Paris police chief Michel Delpuech, Department of Public Order and Traffic (DOPC) director Alain Gibelin, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe, and Élysée chief of staff Patrick Strzoda among those called to testify. Opposition lawmakers in the National Assembly also announced their intention to submit a motion of no confidence against the government.\n\nOn 1 May 2018, violence during May Day demonstrations led to significant damage and the arrests of 283 people with 109 taken into custody in Paris, in addition to several injuries. The violence resulted in part from the interruption of the demonstrations by 1,200 \"black bloc\" protesters.\n\nAlexandre Benalla (born 8 September 1991 in Évreux) was reportedly a Socialist Party (PS) activist in Eure, his home department, before offering his services as a bodyguard with the PS, which assigned him to the entourage of Martine Aubry from 2008 to 2012. He was later assigned to protect François Hollande as well as, briefly, Arnaud Montebourg. A week into his assignment, he was dismissed after causing a car accident and wanting to flee from the scene. Following his dismissal, he protected artists before joining the security force of Emmanuel Macron, whom Benalla supported, during his presidential campaign. He also worked with PS deputy Pascale Boistard as an unpaid parliamentary assistant in 2012 and had access to some areas of the Palais Bourbon.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2013, Benalla began his career as a reservist gendarme in Eure under then-platoon commander Sébastien Lecornu, who at the time was a member of the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) and member of the cabinet of then-agriculture minister Bruno Le Maire. Both Lecornu and Le Maire were appointed as ministers in the government assembled after the election of Macron, with Lecornu serving as Secretary of State to the Minister for the Ecological and Inclusive Transition and Le Maire becoming Minister of Economy and Finance. Benalla would later support Le Maire in his bid to lead the party in its 2014 leadership election. On 18 March 2016, Benalla was acquitted following a complaint of violence filed against him in Boulogne-Billancourt in August 2015 by a woman who stated that she was unable to work for more than 8 days as a result.\n\nHis name appeared numerous times in the 2017 Macron e-mail leaks, dubbed \"MacronLeaks\", having procured several non-lethal weapons and riot shields. At the request of the Élysée to aide him in his capacity as a security officer, Benalla was granted a carry license by the Paris police prefecture in October 2017. Karim Achoui, the founder of the Muslim Judicial Defense League with whom Benalla was close, made a previous request for a carry permit that was denied in 2013 in his capacity as a lawyer. During a March 2017 campaign event in Caen, he allegedly pushed a Public Sénat journalist 50 meters and seized his press badge, which granted close access to Macron and his supporters, without giving any explanation.\n\nBenalla seemed to maintain a close relationship with Macron as he was the only member of his cabinet to join a skiing trip at the end of 2017, the only other invitees being his security detail.\n\nOn 18 July 2018, \"Le Monde\" revealed in an article that 26-year-old Alexandre Benalla, who served as a security officer to President of France Emmanuel Macron during the 2017 presidential campaign and was later hired as deputy chief of staff to the president under François-Xavier Lauch, was the person who grabbed a young man by the neck during the May Day demonstrations before hitting him several times in a video taken at the Place de la Contrescarpe published on Facebook by a La France Insoumise activist. In the video, Benalla wore a police helmet despite not being a police officer. According to Patrick Strzoda, Benalla asked him for permission to join the police during May Day to observe how a large demonstration was managed. After Strzoda was informed that Benalla had been seen in the videos, Benalla said that he was the individual shown in the videos and Strzoda informed Macron, then in Australia, of the situation. As a result, Benalla was temporarily suspended from 4 to 19 May before being reassigned to the security of events at the Élysée Palace, including the celebration of the victory of the national football team after winning the 2018 FIFA World Cup just days before the publication of the report. However, these claims were questioned by journalists who uncovered photos after the supposed reassignment as part of Macron's entourage. A second video, showing a different angle of the incident, was posted to Twitter on 19 July, showing Benalla grabbing a woman by the neck and dragging her away before leaving towards the other protester.\n\nBenalla was accompanied by Vincent Crase, a reservist gendarme hired by La République En Marche!, who likewise served as a security officer for Macron during the 2017 presidential campaign. Crase, like Benalla, received a 15-day suspension for his involvement in the May Day demonstrations, and remained employed by the party, but unlike Benalla had ended \"any collaboration\" with the office of the presidency. A third individual, Philippe Mizerski, was identified; Mizerski, a member of the Department of Public Order and Traffic (DOPC) in Paris was responsible for supervising Benalla's role as an \"observer\" but did not attempt to stop Benalla from assaulting the protesters.\n\nOn 19 July, the Paris prosecutor announced that it opened a preliminary investigation into incidents of \"violence, usurpation of the functions of a police officer and using insignia reserved for public authorities\" concerning Alexandre Benalla. Strzoda was heard as a witness in the investigation the same day. Minister of the Interior Gérard Collomb also announced that he referred the case to the General Inspectorate of the National Police (IGPN) and that its report would be published publicly, with the IGPN charged with investigating how Benalla and Crase were allowed to participate in overseeing the demonstrations alongside the police. The interior ministry, however, said that no immediate action had been taken against either of the two on 1 May despite having been aware of the incident, and France Inter revealed that Collomb himself was informed about the incident on 2 May before the Élysée took action to suspend Benalla on 3 May.\n\nOn 20 July, the Élysée announced that it had initiated a dismissal procedure against Benalla following the discovery of \"new facts\" of the case related to the suspension of three police officers – Laurent Simonin, Maxence Creusat, and Jean-Yves Hunault – for apparently passing on surveillance footage to Benella, presumably to help him prepare his defense in what Collomb described as a potentially \"serious breach of ethics\". The footage, which was copied by the officers and sent to Benalla the evening the article in \"Le Monde\" was published, depicts another angle not shown by the other videos and should theoretically not have existed given that video footage older than a month was supposed to be automatically erased. After obtaining the footage, Benalla reportedly shared it with Ismaël Emelien, a political advisor close to Macron, and other Élysée viewed this footage as well. The Paris prosecutor office took both Benella and Crase into custody in the morning. A photo obtained of Benalla's official car in a parking lot before it was removed on 19 July showed the vehicle equipped with police devices despite not belonging to the police. \"Le Monde\" reported on 20 July that Benalla declared his official residence from 9 July as the Palais de l'Alma at 11 quai Branly, a dependency of the Élysée, with 180,000 euros earmarked to house Benalla, according to a report in \"L'Express\".\n\nOn 22 July, Benalla was placed under formal investigation additionally for \"concealment of a violation of professional secrecy\" and \"concealment of the misuse of images from a video surveillance system\", in addition to Crase and the three suspended police officers. The apparent victims in the videos were also identified and asked to testify at a later date. On 23 July, Benalla's lawyers (Laurent-Franck Lienard and Audrey Gadot) issued a statement – the first since the beginning of the affair – saying that Benalla was \"stunned by the media and political usage\" of his actions during the May Day demonstrations and that he \"took the initiative to lend a hand\" by helping to \"control\" what they described as \"two particularly virulent individuals\". Benalla's office at the Élysée was subject to a police raid lasting several hours on 25 July.\n\nOn 27 July, \"Libération\" published a video showing that Benalla and Crase were involved in another demonstrator's arrest several hours before, in the Jardin des plantes, ordering one of the demonstrators to remove photographs and videos she filmed.\n\nMembers of the majority in the National Assembly were reportedly \"stunned\" by the revelations. While many avoided contact with the press and others deflected media inquiries by referring them to statements made by the Élysée, some La République En Marche deputies implied that the two-week suspension of Benalla was too lenient a response to his conduct. The revelations came amid the examination in the National Assembly of amendments to the proposed constitutional revision on 19 July, with opposition deputies frequently interrupting the session to demand the creation of an investigative committee into the case. The opposition accused the government of being too lenient in its sanctions against Benalla, and of failing to inform the public prosecutor as required under article 40 of the code of criminal procedure, which stipulates that any public official or civil servant who becomes aware of a crime or misdemeanor is to immediately inform the public prosecutor of the incident. The affair eventually forced the government to suspend the examination of the constitutional revision on 22 July.\n\nAsked about the case while visiting Dordogne, Emmanuel Macron responded that the Republic was \"unalterable\" and told a journalist that \"I did not come to see you, I came here to see Mr. Mayor.\" On 20 July, Macron failed to hold a joint press conference, as customary following visits from other heads of state, after meeting with Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev. A video of less than 2 minutes long was sent to media representatives by Élysée spokesman Bruno Roger-Petit on 19 July, prompting criticism regarding the Élysée's communication strategy throughout the affair, and journalists and commentators castigated Macron for failing to explain himself. Macron called a crisis meeting with members of the government on the evening of 22 July. His Twitter account, usually active, fell silent for four days until returning to express solidarity with Greece during the 2018 Attica wildfires. On 24 July, Macron broke his silence on the affair and spoke before lawmakers from his party, stating that he alone bore responsibility and that no members of his cabinet had ever been above the law.\n\nBenoît Hamon demanded the resignation of Collomb as interior minister, while Socialist leader Olivier Faure did not exclude the possibility of pressing for him to resign should he fail to give a sufficient explanation. Jean-Luc Mélenchon, president of the La France Insoumise group in the National Assembly, announced that he intended to attempt to submit a vote of no confidence against the government, and said that the affair was \"at the level of Watergate\". Faure also favored a motion of no confidence in the case that unless a clear explanation was given, but appeared reluctant to sign on to any motion proposed by Mélenchon. On 24 July, Christian Jacob of The Republicans (LR) announced that his group, with 103 members, would submit a motion of no confidence (which requires 58 signatures) against the government, though he acknowledged that the vote would not succeed given the government's majority. Mélenchon's group, with 17 deputies, would not have been able to submit one without the support of other deputies, and FI deputy Alexis Corbière subsequently announced that the group would be prepared to sign a LR-submitted motion. The LR group officially submitted a motion of no confidence on 26 July, followed by the three groups on the left – the New Left, La France Insoumise, and Democratic and Republican Left – filing a joint motion on 27 July to be debated on 31 July, followed by the right's on 2 August.\n\nIn his first public interview since the story broke, Benalla said that he made a \"mistake\", that he was qualified to carry a weapon as a reservist gendarme, acknowledged tensions with the Security Group for the Presidency of the Republic (GSPR), that he requested housing of only 80 square meters as opposed the 300 reported by \"L'Express\", that he was invited by Simonin to observe the May Day protests, and that he did not request the video surveillance footage of the incident procured by three police officers. SMS messages obtained by \"Le Monde\" published on 26 July appeared to indicate that Simonin invited Benalla to the May Day protests. Interviewed on TF1 on 27 July, Benalla insisted he did nothing wrong and that he was acting as a \"citizen\" against those he considered to be \"delinquents\".\n\nOn the evening of 19 July, the Law Committee of the National Assembly headed by Yaël Braun-Pivet voted to open a parliamentary inquiry into the case lasting one month with the agreement of all group presidents in the National Assembly. Minister of the Interior Gérard Collomb was to be called to testify before the National Assembly for its inquiry; however, the majority and opposition on 20 July failed to agree on a timetable, with the prior proposing 21 July and the latter 23 July. Eventually, the committee agreed to hear Collomb on 23 July, followed by Paris police chief Michel Delpuech several hours later, though co-rapporteur Guillaume Larrivé of The Republicans (LR) wished to also interview both Benalla and Crase as well as Christophe Castaner, Alexis Kohler, and Bruno Roger-Petit. The groups disagreed on the publicity of the hearings, with the opposition calling for open hearings. Though the opposition also called for Prime Minister Édouard Philippe to speak before the National Assembly, he demurred, justifying his absence by citing his scheduled travel to watch the 2018 Tour de France. Though numerous opposition politicians also called for Macron himself to testify, legal experts disagreed on whether such an intervention was permitted under the constitution.\n\nIn his testimony on 23 July, Collomb blamed the Paris police, saying that he was aware of Benalla's actions but did not alert the judiciary because it was not within his responsibility to do so. He said that he believed that appropriate action (i.e., the two-week suspension of Benalla) had been taken by the Élysée, and also said that he had never discussed the affair with Macron until the day before his testimony, instead saying that Macron was \"preoccupied by the constitutional reform\", triggering laughter among the deputies present. Article 40 of the code of criminal procedure, however, makes no hierarchical stipulations, and there exists no such limitation prohibiting officials from reporting crimes not committed by subordinates. According to Delpuech, Laurent Simonin – one of the officers suspended for transmitting video surveillance footage to Benalla – granted permission to Benalla to observe the demonstration of the police while he himself was unaware until being informed of the incident at a later point, and pinned the transmission of these tapes upon \"unhealthy cronyism\". \"Le Monde\" identified several contradictions between the testimony of Collomb and Delpuech, namely related to when and how the prior was informed about the incident. Alain Gibelin, director of the DOPC, stated that Benalla had \"no authorization\" to be present as an observer at the demonstration, countering previous claims, though later rescinded his initial response indicating that the Élysée had lied about Benalla's suspension and affirmed that he had misheard the dates.\n\nSpeaking before both chambers on 24 July, Philippe argued that the penalty imposed upon Benalla was appropriate and said that the case did not constitute a state scandal. In the following hearing, chief of staff Strzoda said that he was the individual who made the decision suspend Benalla, with the suspension implemented after Macron was later informed by Kohler while in Australia. He also said that he did not deem the information he received from the IGPN regarding Benalla sufficient to report under article 40, and categorically denied the \"rumors\" regarding benefits and privileges reportedly afforded to Benalla; however, he refused to give the amount of his salary or the details of his apartment. Testifying before the Senate on 25 July, Strzoda revealed that Benalla received a full salary for the month of May during which he was suspended, and his days of leave were instead reduced to compensate for this. Kohler echoed earlier answers, saying he believed that Benalla's punishment was sufficient given the facts known at the time and that article 40 did not need to be invoked; he also declined to provide Benalla's salary, details of his housing, carry permit, and other assets. Meanwhile, the atmosphere of the National Assembly's investigation deteriorated as tensions grew between members of the majority and opposition, with the latter alleging that Braun-Pivet attempted to impede its progress and avoid hearing staff at the Élysée, Interior Ministry, La République En Marche, and police unions, some of which had been already interviewed by the Senate. On 26 July, Larrivé announced that he suspended his participation in the investigation, considering it a farce faced against the Élysée's apparent efforts to hinder its progress, and the rest of the opposition subsequently quit the inquiry.\n\nThe Law Committee in the Senate, presided over by Philippe Bas, also opened a parliamentary inquiry into the case and will interview Collomb in a public hearing on 24 July; unlike the assembly's inquiry, the Senate's will have six months to investigate. The Senate committee will also interview Delpuech, Éric Morvan, Alexis Kohler, Patrick Strzoda, Christophe Castaner, and other related individuals in the course of its investigation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20613331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20613331", "title": "Bhāruci", "text": "Bhāruci\n\nBhāruci's commentary (bhashya) on the Manu Smrti, or Laws of Manu, is part of the corpus of Dharmaśāstra texts available to us today. It is the oldest commentary on Manu that we know of, and is one of the sources used by Medhātithi, another major commentator on the Manu Smṛti.\n\nVery little is known about the date or historical context in which Bhāruci was writing, but P. V. Kane argues that it cannot have been written after 1050 CE because Vijñāneśvara, the author of the , a famous commentary on the , mentions Bhāruci's commentary in his writing. Viśvarūpa, another commentator on the \"\", also uses Bhāruci as a source. Patrick Olivelle places Bhāruci in the 8th century CE, while J. Duncan M. Derrett places him between 600-650 CE. There are two known authors named Bhāruci placed in about the same period of time, one who wrote on \"Dharmaśāstra\" and one who was a jurist, and Kane posits that they were in fact the same person because it is unlikely that there were two famous writers with the same name writing at the same time.\n\nThe main content of Bhāruci's commentary deals with the duties of a king, particularly regarding whether or not the king can be a source of dharma. Bhāruci's view as discussed by Derrett was that the king did not have any legislative power, but he did have \"the power to issue regulations and edicts of a temporary character or for the purpose of facilitating objects already inculcated by the \"dharmaśāstra\".\" Kane agrees, stating that \"the king is not the source of the rules of \"Dharma\", but it is śāstra that defines the rules binding on the different varnas (classes) and ashramas (stages of man's life).\"\n"}
{"id": "36722840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36722840", "title": "Caltec Citrus Company", "text": "Caltec Citrus Company\n\nCaltec Citrus Company is a defunct business which in 1958 became involved in a legal battle with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).\n\nThe FDA carried out surveillance of the Caltec warehouse. At this time it discovered substances not usually found in 100% pure orange juice being carried in a rear door by Caltec employees. Among these materials were sugar and Vitamin C. The loss to consumers in watering down procedures has been estimated at $1 million in lost value.\n\nCaltec was defended in court by attorney Percy Foreman. The corporation was fined $6,000, and a suspended sentence was given to the violating officials.\n"}
{"id": "18334864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18334864", "title": "Canada Consumer Product Safety Act", "text": "Canada Consumer Product Safety Act\n\nThe Canada Consumer Product Safety Act was a Canadian act that passed into law by the Government of Canada on December 14, 2010. This law replaced Part I of the Hazardous Products Act. It was originally introduced in the 2nd session of the 39th Parliament of Canada as Bill C-52. It died in committee when the 2008 Canadian federal election was called, but was reintroduced in the 2nd session of the 40th Parliament of Canada as Bill C-6 and was passed by both houses of Parliament but did not receive royal assent before Parliament was prorogued. It was introduced for a third time in the 3rd session of the 40th Parliament as Bill C-36.\n\nThe legislative package proposes amendments to the Hazardous Products Act (HPA), and would move continue consumer products to be regulated under the proposed Canada Consumer Product Safety Act. These bills are a result of increased consumer concern over consumer products, such as children's toys, which have been the subject of recalls over the past few years. Canada's Hazardous Products Act has not been updated in over 40 years. Canada's regulatory system has not kept pace with the global economy and increasing amounts of international trade. The Minister of Health, for example, currently doesn't have the power to force recall of faulty or counterfeit products in Canada.\n\nHealth Canada consulted widely with industry and consumer groups over a period of several years before bringing forward the Consumer Product Safety Action Plan.\n\nHealth Canada regularly issues warnings, advisories and information updates to advise consumers of products on the market which contain toxic substances such as lead, mercury or arsenic; or are otherwise contaminated by dangerous and unhealthy substances. However under the previous legislation, the Minister of Health has no power to compel recall of these products. For example, Health Canada posted just over 300 recall notices in 2009. Roughly one third of these were for children's products. In 2009, about 1.5 million consumers were affected by crib recalls alone.\n\n"}
{"id": "15166350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15166350", "title": "Charlton v. Kelly", "text": "Charlton v. Kelly\n\nCharlton v. Kelly, 229 U.S. 447 (1913), is a case pertaining to extradition of a U.S. citizen to Italy. In 1910, Porter Charlton confessed in New York to having murdered his wife in Italy. The Italian vice consul requested Charlton's extradition. Hon. John A. Blair, one of the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of New Jersey, suspended Charlton's petition for a writ of habeas corpus and a warrant was issued for his arrest. This order for extradition was approved by Secretary of State Philander C. Knox.\n\nIn an opinion written by Justice Horace Harmon Lurton, the Court held that the United States had the right to waive a breach of its extradition treaty with Italy, and by waiving the breach, the countries would remain bound by the treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "699352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=699352", "title": "Chief Justice of India", "text": "Chief Justice of India\n\nThe Chief Justice of India (CJI) is the head of the judiciary of India and the Supreme Court of India. The CJI also heads their administrative functions.\n\nAs head of the supreme court, the chief justice is responsible for the allocation of cases and appointment of constitutional benches which deal with important matters of law. In accordance with Article 145 of the Constitution of India and the Supreme Court Rules of Procedure of 1966, the Chief Justice allocates all work to the other judges who are bound to refer the matter back to him or her (for re-allocation) in any case where they require it to be looked into by a larger bench of more judges.\n\nOn the administrative side, the Chief Justice carries out the following functions: maintenance of the roster; appointment of court officials and general and miscellaneous matters relating to the supervision and functioning of the Supreme Court.\n\nIt has been an unbroken convention for decades now, to appoint the senior-most judge of the supreme court as the CJI.\n\nThe present CJI is Justice Ranjan Gogoi, and is the 46th CJI since January 1950, the year the Constitution came into effect and the supreme court came into being. He succeeded Justice Dipak Misra on 2 October 2018, and will remain in office till 17 November 2019, the day he retires on turning 65 years in age.\n\nArticle 124 of the Constitution of India provides for the manner of appointing judges to the Supreme Court. Though no specific provision exists in the Constitution for appointing the Chief Justice, who, as a result, is appointed like the other judges\nconventionally, the outgoing CJI recommends the name of the senior-most judge (i.e. by date of appointment to the Supreme Court) for appointment by the President of India, as his successor.\n\nArticle 124(4) of Constitution of India lays down the procedure for removal of a Judge of Supreme Court which is applicable to Chief Justice as well. Once appointed, the Chief Justice remains in the office until the age of 65 years. He can be removed only through a process of impeachment by Parliament as follows:\n\nThe President (Discharge of Functions) Act, 1969 of India provides that the Chief Justice of India (CJI) shall act as the President of India in the event of the offices of both the President and the Vice President being vacant. When President Zakir Hussain died in office, the Vice President V. V. Giri, acted as the President. Later, Mr. Giri resigned as the Vice President. The CJI, Justice Mohammad Hidayatullah then became the acting President of India. As per the convention, the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court became the acting CJI. When the newly elected President took office a month later, Justice Hidayatullah reverted as the Chief Justice of India\n\nThe Constitution of India gives the power of deciding remuneration as well as other conditions of service of the Chief Justice to the Parliament of India. Accordingly, such provisions have been laid down in \"The Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1958\". This remuneration was revised in 2006-2008, after the sixth central pay commission's recommendation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8488483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8488483", "title": "Children Act 1908", "text": "Children Act 1908\n\nThe 1908 Children's Act, also known as Children and Young Persons Act, part of the Children's Charter was a piece of government legislation passed by the Liberal government, as part of the British Liberal Party's liberal reforms package. The Act was informally known as the Children's Charter and surrounded controversy.\n\nIt established juvenile courts and introduced the registration of foster parents, thus regulating baby-farming and wet-nursing and trying to stamp out infanticide. Local authorities were also granted powers to keep poor children out of the poorhouse/workhouse and protect them from abuse. The act also prevented children working in dangerous trades and prevented them from purchasing cigarettes and entering pubs. The act also prevented children from learning criminal \"tricks of the trade\" in adult prisons, where children were often sent to serve time if a crime had been committed. Instead the Children's Charter had allocated Borstals. It eventually led to many councils setting up social services and Orphanages.\n"}
{"id": "4050333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4050333", "title": "Cigarette tax stamp", "text": "Cigarette tax stamp\n\nA cigarette tax stamp is any adhesive stamp, metered stamp, heat transfer stamp, or other form or evidence of payment of a cigarette tax. A cigarette tax stamp is a specific example of a revenue stamp.\n\nThe 1978 Contraband Cigarette Act prohibits the transport, receipt, shipment, possession, distribution, or purchase of more than 60,000 cigarettes (300 cartons) not bearing the official tax stamp of the U.S. state in which the cigarettes are located.\n\n"}
{"id": "38037869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38037869", "title": "Colombian constitutional reform referendum, 1957", "text": "Colombian constitutional reform referendum, 1957\n\nA referendum on the reform programme of the military junta was held in Colombia on 1 December 1957. Women were given the vote for the first time, and the programme was approved by 95% of voters.\n\nAfter a coup d'état on 10 May 1957, the ruling military junta issued decree 0247, calling for a referendum on constitutional reforms and the election of a Constitutional Council on 16 March 1958, as well as allowing the Liberal Party and Conservative Party to form a provisional government.\n"}
{"id": "34411869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34411869", "title": "Commission on the consequences of devolution for the House of Commons", "text": "Commission on the consequences of devolution for the House of Commons\n\nThe Commission on the consequences of devolution for the House of Commons, also known as the McKay Commission, was an independent commission established in the United Kingdom to consider issues arising from devolution in the United Kingdom and their effect on the workings of the House of Commons. In the statement made by the government when setting up the commission, it referred to the West Lothian Question, a term coined in 1977 to refer to anomalies existing in the pre-devolution government of the UK.\n\nThe commission, chaired by Sir William McKay, considered changes to the procedures of the House of Commons in relation to legislation that only affects part of the UK. It started its work in February 2012 and reported in March 2013. It recommended that future legislation affecting England but not other parts of the UK should require the support of a majority of MPs sitting for English constituencies.\n\nThe term \"West Lothian question\" refers to issues concerning the former ability of members of parliament from constituencies in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales to vote on matters that affect only people living in England and therefore have no direct consequence on their constituents, whilst being unable to influence matters that affect their own constituencies. Anomalies of this kind are considered to have been made more apparent by the devolution of power from Westminster to the National Assembly for Wales, the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Scottish Parliament.\n\nThe Conservative Party manifesto for the 2010 general election included a commitment to introduce the idea of \"English votes on English laws\" and the party had previously explored this issue through a taskforce led by Kenneth Clarke. Scottish Conservative Sir Malcolm Rifkind has also written about the issue, proposing an English grand committee as a possible solution. The Liberal Democrat manifesto included a commitment to address the status of England as part of wider UK constitutional reforms. The 2010 coalition agreement between the parties included a commitment to establish a commission to examine the West Lothian question.\n\nPlans for a commission were announced in September 2011 and its membership was disclosed in January 2012.\n\nThe commission was set up with six members, described \"independent, non-partisan\" experts. The members were:\n\n\nThe terms of reference for the commission were:\n\nThe report of the commission was published on 25 March 2013. Its main conclusions are:\n\nSir William McKay said:Our proposals retain the right of a UK-wide majority to make the final decisions where they believe UK interests or those of a part of the UK other than England should prevail. We expect that governments will prefer compromise to conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22705628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22705628", "title": "Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section", "text": "Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section\n\nThe Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS) is a section of the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice in charge of investigating computer crime (hacking, viruses, worms) and intellectual property crime and specializing in the search and seizure of digital evidence in computers and on networks.\n\nThe Section has had recent success. A conviction was handed down by a New Jersey jury in the case of Christopher Rad, who organized an international securities fraud ring, and stock manipulated through botnets.\n"}
{"id": "5903340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5903340", "title": "Conspiracy, and Protection of Property Act 1875", "text": "Conspiracy, and Protection of Property Act 1875\n\nThe Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act 1875 (38 & 39 Vict. c.86) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom relating to labour relations, which together with the Employers and Workmen Act 1875, fully decriminalised the work of trade unions. Based on an extension of the conclusions of the Cockburn Commission, it was introduced by a Conservative government under Benjamin Disraeli.\n\nThe Act held that a trade union could not be prosecuted for act which would be legal if conducted by an individual. This meant that labour disputes were civil matters, not for consideration by criminal courts. One result of this was that picketing was decriminalised. The law also made certain forms of stalking illegal.\n\nSections 6 and 7 of this Act were repealed for the Republic of Ireland by the Non-Fatal Offences Against the Person Act, section 31 and Schedule.\n\nThe Act has been repealed by the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2008 (c.12), Schedule 1, Part 3.\n\n"}
{"id": "13225461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13225461", "title": "Constitutional Court of Colombia", "text": "Constitutional Court of Colombia\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Colombia () is the supreme constitutional court of Colombia. Part of the Judiciary, it is the final appellate court for matters involving interpretation of the Constitution with the power to determine the constitutionality of laws, acts, and statutes.\n\nThe court was first established by the Constitution of 1991, and its first session began in March 1992. The court is housed within the shared judicial complex of the Palace of Justice located on the north side of Bolívar Square in the neighbourhood of Bogotá.\n\nThe Constitutional Court consists of nine magistrates who are elected by the Senate of Colombia from ternary lists drawn up by the President, the Supreme Court of Justice, and the Council of State. The magistrates serve for a term of eight years. The court is headed by a President and Vice President.\n\n"}
{"id": "36341578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36341578", "title": "Constitutional review", "text": "Constitutional review\n\nConstitutional review, or constitutionality review or constitutional control, is the evaluation, in some countries, of the constitutionality of the laws. It's supposed to be a system of preventing violation of the rights granted by the constitution, assuring its efficacy, their stability and preservation.\n\nThere are very specific situations in which the constitutional review differs from common law to civil law, as well as the judicial review in general.\nIn the countries that have written and rigid constitutions, they (the constitutions) represent the supreme norm of the juridical order, sited on the top of the pyramid of norms. It's named as \"fundamental law\", \"supreme law\", \"law of the laws\", \"biggest law\". That biggest law asks for more difficult and formal procedures for updating than the other juridical norms (named \"sub-constitutional\"). Although this is usually characterized as a civil law speciality, some of the concepts here can be inherited from common law countries which have written constitutions; for instance, USA, that, paradoxally, in timeline, was the first to adopt the diffuse review.\nThe judicial control of \"constitutionality\" applies to the normative acts too.\n\nThe first precedent in which the American Supreme Court asserted its power of constitutional control was the \"Marbury v. Madison\".\n\n"}
{"id": "203931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203931", "title": "Daimler–Hyundai Truck", "text": "Daimler–Hyundai Truck\n\nThe Daimler–Hyundai Truck Corporation was a joint venture established between Daimler AG and Hyundai Motor Company in 2000 to produce high-tech middle-range trucks and buses in the Korean market beginning in 2004.\n\nAfter numerous delays and disputes, the planned venture was cancelled in 2004, with DaimlerChrysler selling its 10.65 percent stake in Hyundai Motor.\n\n"}
{"id": "41408169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41408169", "title": "Davis' Criminal Law Consolidation Acts", "text": "Davis' Criminal Law Consolidation Acts\n\nThe Criminal Law Consolidation Statutes of the 24 & 25 of Victoria, Chapters 94 to 100: Edited with Notes, Critical and Explanatory is a book about the criminal law consolidation Acts 1861 written by James Edward Davis and published by Butterworths in duodecimo in 1861. \"Davis' Criminal Law Consolidation Acts\" may for the purpose of citation be abbreviated to \"Dav Cr Cons\".\n\nThe Solicitors Journal said that it would \"be unreasonable to expect that Mr.\" Davis' \"edition of these statutes, published within three months from the publication of the Acts themselves, and the production of his unassisted labour, should contain the same amount of information and practical utility as might be expected to be found in a work prepared and matured at leisure. In the edition before us the public are provided with the Acts themselves, in a convenient form, with an index; and by means of reference to the corresponding clauses of those statutes upon which the work of consolidation has proceeded, the professional man is furnished with a clue by means of which he may ascertain what the law in any analogous case was up to the passing of these Acts. The Acts are printed in the order in which they received the Royal assent, and an attempt has been made to distinguish by brackets those provisions which are introduced for the first time. It would, however, it is conceived, be unsafe for a practitioner to assume that the only alterations in the law made by these Acts are such as are made by the provisions marked as described; for in many instances, where no brackets occur, the subjoined note informs the reader that the section is \"nearly verbatim\", or that it is \"framed upon\" one or more statutes; and, obviously under such circumstances new words must occur, the operation of which upon the construction of the clause it must be extremely difficult to foretell. These distinguishing marks, however, though they may not be placed with perfect accuracy, materially contribute to the value of the book. The book also contains a table of offences and an introduction. Of the explanatory notes, except so far as they contain references to other analogous Acts as above noticed, we cannot speak with satisfaction. No method appears to have been pursued in the manner in which the matter contained in them is introduced. Sometimes cases in illustration of the text of the section are inserted; and sometimes, though there is an equal necessity for the insertion of such illustrations, and equal facility for supplying them, the editor, either from indolence or caprice, entirely omits them. It is unreasonable, perhaps, to expect to find, in a work published as this is, a history of the multifarious laws digested by the Acts, or a complete compilation from reports and text-books, of the leading decisions with reference to analogous legislation, or a description of the evidence and procedure in relation to the offences provided against; but though full information upon these points might not have been expected, it is only reasonable to suppose that such a work as the present will systematically point out those channels wherein such information may be readily obtained. To have furnished references to such sources of information would have been an easy task, and would have added greatly to the practical utility of the book. It is a task, however, which Mr. Davis has not undertaken. With the exception, therefore, of the words on the title-page, \"with notes critical and explanatory,\" the book neither contains any express promise that the task undertaken by its editor shall be performed in any particular manner, nor statement that it has been prepared for any definite purpose and no one who may be disappointed by its contents can complain that more has been promised by its editor than has been performed.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "360010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360010", "title": "Economic Stabilization Act of 1970", "text": "Economic Stabilization Act of 1970\n\nThe Economic Stabilization Act of 1970 (Title II of , formerly codified at 12 U.S.C. § 1904) was a United States law that authorized the President to stabilize prices, rents, wages, salaries, interest rates, dividends and similar transfers. It established standards to serve as a guide for determining levels of wages, prices, etc., which would allow for adjustments, exceptions and variations to prevent inequities, taking into account changes in productivity, cost of living and other pertinent factors.\n\nThe nation was in recession, attributed to the Vietnam War and the 1970s Energy Crisis, combined with workforce shortages and the rise in healthcare cost. Nixon inherited high inflation, though unemployment was low. Seeking reelection in the 1972 presidential race, Nixon vowed to fight inflation; he acknowledged that this would result in job losses, but proposed that this was a temporary solution, but promised that more was to come in terms of change, hope and \"manpower\".\n\nThe Economic Stabilization Act of 1970 was passed, inaugurating a policy of wage and price controls. Nixon wrote to Congress:\nNixon commented on the futile attempts to contain the economy in the 1960s, and promised to bring about change by proposing tax cuts over the course of his term to create new jobs. In 1971, Nixon proceeded with the tax cuts under the provisions of phase II of the Economic Stabilization Act as it was amended earlier that year. Nixon believed America needed a comprehensive manpower policy to reinvigorate the economy. Nixon and the proposed Act cited the Manpower Development and Training act of 1962 to utilize the competence of America's workforce and the Manpower Revenue Sharing Act, to make training programs accessible to local governments.\n\nThe act provided for limitations on the exercise of Presidential authority and allowed delegation of the performance of any of the President's functions to appropriate officers, departments and agencies of the United States or to entities composed of members appointed to represent different sectors of the economy and the general public.\n\nThe act provided for disclosure of information, subpoena power, administrative procedure, criminal and civil sanctions, injunctions and suits for damages and other relief. The Act specified original jurisdiction for judicial review of cases or controversies arising under the Act or regulations issued thereunder in the district courts of the United States, and directed that appeals of final decisions or permitted interlocutory appeals be brought in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.\n\nThis act had special provisions, some of which increased the employment opportunities for minorities, under the local manpower programs. These programs completed two tasks in one. First, this program in addition to providing an equal opportunity for minorities, under the Economic Stabilization Act which lead to the Equal Employment Opportunity Act. This created opportunities for those who were unemployed and \"transitional\" jobs for those who lost jobs. Secondly this program fulfilled the \"unmet needs\" for public assistance.\n\nThe Secretary of Energy under \"power vested\" by the act had to submit quarterly reports to the United States Congress in conjunction with the provisions of the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973, to ensure the best prices for fuel in the country. The Public did not just benefit from initiatives made in the workforce. In the attempt to save social security from suffering from the effects of the inflation, Supplemental Security Income was established, to provide unemployed Americans with a cushion. Since Nixon decoupled the dollar from the gold standard, the dollar price of imports increased. The cost of imports allowed Americans to focus on American-made products to keep the money circulating throughout the American economy, resulting in a higher income for American workers.\n\nTo lull the anxieties of unemployment and the anxieties about the promises of the Economic Stabilization Act in conjunction with bettering public service,the President signed the Emergency Employment Act in 1971. The Act made specific provision for small businesses and created nearly \"150,000 new jobs\" in the \"public sphere\" in such fields as \"education, environmental protection, law enforcement, and other 'public works'\". The most prominent public work being the mass transportation systems. This Act, like the Economic Stabilization Act that influenced this one, required the President to issue periodic reports on all appropriations to Congress.\n\nUnder this act, the United States Congress convened to tackle the issue of rapid economic growth in metropolises and other urban environments. The goal was to provide efficient living for people living in these settings. The goal in more detail was to condense densely populated areas. The Housing and Urban Development department was established to provide good living and \"attractive living environments\" for these tenants and to conserve the energy and resources that are used in heavily populated urban areas.\nThis Act provided people with low income with subsidized rent for affordable housing in privately owned buildings. This act was the \"predecessor to the Section 8 rental subsidies\".\n\nIn the case of , the Amalgamated Meat Cutters sued defendant John B Connally, the then chairman of the Cost of Living Council and the secretary of the United States Treasury. The Meat Cutters approached the court with two arguments, which were condensed into one. The Plaintiffs' primary concern was pursuing a twenty-five cent an hour increase on general wages. It was argued by the Plaintiffs that this was an agreement that was reached in April 1970 and demanded that the wage increase take effect September 6, 1971. The Plaintiffs' second argument was that this act was \"unconstitutional and the Executive Order was invalid\", because one of the stipulations of the act was that \"prices, rent, wages and salaries shall be stabilized for a period of 90-days\" as stated by President Nixon.\n\nThis was the salient argument because it was the first time that the act was opposed and the Executive Order was being questioned, since the Plaintiffs believed that the order did not do justice to the workers under unions and that the act imposed on the power of the unions, since they had to operate under a 90-day spending freeze. This freeze did not allow the unions to protect the union workers. This was due largely to the fact that the Pay Board and Price Commission, under both the act and the Executive Order, both monitored and controlled wages.\n\nThe United States District Court for the District of Columbia upheld the act, rejecting an argument that it was an unconstitutional delegation of legislative authority, by citing previous cases such as for the \"government's contention of adequacy of law\" and for the \"permissibility of legislative power within the Government's limits\". These were two amongst many cases cited by the defense, all of which proved the legitimacy and flexibility of the Act and the Government's authority and range to enforce this Act.\n\nUnder a provision in the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, the Cost of Living Council was established as an independent agency. The purpose of this council was to stabilize the prices, rent, wages and salaries higher than the prices on or before May 25, 1970 and execute phases II-IV of the Economic Stabilization Program. These phases were set in place to ensure the success of this program. Phase I was the 90-day price and wage freeze that was authorized by President Nixon who delegated power to the Office of Emergency Preparedness which acted as the fiduciary agency that monitored business practices. Phase II required that the Cost of Living Council engage in wage and price controls. Phase III of this program required this council to enforce another price freeze to balance out economy. The IV and final phase consisted of a \"voluntary compliance and gradual decontrol\", this council had to ease off of these businesses and relinquish some control. By April 30, 1974 this council was \"abolished\".\n\nHaving the responsibility of chairman of first the Office of Economic Opportunity then the Cost of Living Council imposed on him, Donald Rumsfeld was initially unhappy with his position as chairman of the council and the council's \"success\" and for a while opposed the idea of the council. He soon realized that his presence there would \"be best\" for his influence in both domestic and international commerce and appeared satisfied with the council prior to it being abolished in 1974. President Nixon reported that \"public support and cooperation\" was there for the council when they were making the tough decisions. President Nixon also ensured the American people that the Cost of Living Council always \"kept the public interest in mind\".\n\nThe President in his quarterly statements usually claimed that Rumsfeld and his council were doing a great job, \"providing encouraging evidence that the nation continues to make progress in the battle against inflation\". Nixon continued to say in his report that \"The national economy is now expanding significantly. This makes the success of the stabilization program more important than ever\".\nIn 1971 Nixon announced he had signed the Revenue Act of 1971, which was an amendment to the Economic Stabilization Act and, as Nixon said, was to provide \"tax cuts of some $15 billion over the next 3 years to stimulate the economy and provide hundreds of thousands of new jobs\". This program was allowed to expire in 1974 and was viewed as a success by the President.\n\n"}
{"id": "9098246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9098246", "title": "Employee stock purchase plan", "text": "Employee stock purchase plan\n\nIn the United States, an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) is a tax-efficient means by which employees of a corporation can purchase the corporation's stock, often at a discount. Employees contribute to the plan through payroll deductions, which build up between the offering date and the purchase date. At the purchase date, the company uses the accumulated funds to purchase shares in the company on behalf of the participating employees. The amount of the discount depends on the specific plan but can be as much as 15% lower than the market price. \n\nDepending on when the employee sells the shares, the disposition will be classified as either qualified or not qualified. If the position is sold two years after the offering date and at least one year after the purchase date, the shares will fall under a qualified disposition. If the shares are sold within two years of the offering date or within one year after the purchase date the disposition will not be qualified. These positions will have different tax implications.\n\nThe majority of publicly disclosed ESPPs in the United States are tax-qualified plans that follow the rules of Section 423 of the IRC.\n\nParticipation rates in the US in ESPPs is around 30%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3067384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3067384", "title": "European Community number", "text": "European Community number\n\nThe European Community number (EC number) is a unique seven-digit identifier that was assigned to substances for regulatory purposes within the European Union by the European Commission. The \"EC Inventory\" comprises three individual inventories, EINECS, ELINCS and the NLP list.\n\nThe EC Number may be written in a general form as: NNN-NNN-R, where R is a check digit and N represents integers. The check digit is calculated using the ISBN method. According to this method, the check digit R is the following sum modulo 11:\n\nIf the remainder R is equal to 10, that combination of digits is not used for an EC number. To illustrate, the EC number of dexamethasone is 200-003-9. N is 2, N through N are 0, and N is 3. \n\nThe remainder is 9, which is the check digit.\n\nThere is a set of 181 ELINCS numbers (EC numbers starting with 4) for which the checksum by the above algorithm is 10 and the number has not been skipped but issued with a checksum of 1.\nThe EC Inventory includes the substances in the following inventories. The content of these inventories is fixed and official.\n\nEuropean Chemicals Agency (ECHA) also applies the EC number format to what it calls \"List number\". The number are assigned under the REACH Regulation without being legally recognised. Hence, they are not official because they have not been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. List numbers are administrative tools only and shall not be used for any official purposes.\n"}
{"id": "46313684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46313684", "title": "Evolutionary Governance Theory", "text": "Evolutionary Governance Theory\n\nEvolutionary Governance Theory (EGT) is theoretical framework for analysing and explaining governance and its evolution. It is an approach that addresses the complex and non-linear nature of governance. EGT is different from other theoretical approaches in the sense that it recognizes that governance and its elements are constantly changing in interplay with each other. It places emphasis on the co-evolution between discourses, actors and institutions. Therewith it offers a perspective on the way institutions, markets and societies evolve. It builds on a broad range of theoretical sources that includes Systems theory, Post structuralism, Institutional economics, Actor–network theory and Development studies. EGT offers a framework for understanding how actors, subjects, objects, formal and informal institutions, and knowledge are in a continuous process of co-evolution, how different dependencies influence the course of evolution, and how different evolutionary pathways are created and influencing each other’s development. Within EGT social systems theory is compatible with a version of discourse theory, largely in line with the Michel Foucault tradition, while also offering a place for actors and their strategizing.\n\nEvolutionary Governance Theory links up with the literature on social-ecological and complex-adaptive systems, with an emphasis on the processes and mechanisms that drive social evolution. \n"}
{"id": "1959263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959263", "title": "Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act", "text": "Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act\n\nThe Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (abbreviated FACT Act or FACTA, ) is a United States federal law, passed by the United States Congress on November 22, 2003, and signed by President George W. Bush on December 4, 2003, as an amendment to the Fair Credit Reporting Act. The act allows consumers to request and obtain a free credit report once every twelve months from each of the three nationwide consumer credit reporting companies (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion). In cooperation with the Federal Trade Commission, the three major credit reporting agencies set up the website, AnnualCreditReport.com, to provide free access to annual credit reports.\n\nThe act also contains provisions to help reduce identity theft, such as the ability for individuals to place alerts on their credit histories if identity theft is suspected, or if deploying overseas in the military, thereby making fraudulent applications for credit more difficult. Further, it requires secure disposal of consumer information.\n\nThe FACT Act contains seven major titles: Identity Theft Prevention and Credit History Restoration, Improvements in Use of and Consumer Access to Credit Information, Enhancing the Accuracy of Consumer Report Information, Limiting the Use and Sharing of Medical Information in the Financial System, Financial Literacy and Education Improvement, Protecting Employee Misconduct Investigations, and Relation to State Laws.\n\nThis title of the act contains provisions that deal mainly with the prevention of identity theft. In particular, it establishes new regulations concerning 'fraud alerts' and 'active duty alerts', establishes new limitations on the printing of customers' credit card numbers on receipts, and prescribes that new regulations be established by certain government agencies regarding the detection of identity theft by financial institutions and creditors.\n\nThe title requires that consumer reporting agencies, upon the request of a consumer who believes he is or about to be a victim of fraud or any other related crime, must place a fraud alert on that consumer's file for at least 90 days, and notify all other consumer reporting agencies of the fraud alert.\n\nConsumers may request an extended fraud alert, in which case requires the reporting agency to disclose this fraud alert in any credit score that it issues for the consumer during a seven-year period. An extended alert also requires the reporting agency to exclude the consumer from any list distributed to third parties for the purpose of extending credit or offering insurance to that consumer.\n\nThe title also provides for any active duty member to request an active duty alert, which requires the reporting agency to disclose such alert with any credit report issued within 12 months of the request and to exclude the active duty member from any list distributed to third parties for the purpose of extending credit or offering insurance for two years from the request.\n\nThe act also prohibits businesses from printing more than 5 digits of any customer's card number or card expiration date on any receipt provided to the cardholder at the point of sale or transaction. This provision is enforced with statutory damages ranging from $100 to $1000 per violation, and when claims are aggregated in a class action (brought by all the customers of a retailer that failed to truncate credit card numbers) the amount of damages can be massive. The provision excludes receipts that are handwritten or imprinted, where the only method of recording the credit card number is by such means. The act did not become effective for three years after its enactment for any cash register manufactured before January 1, 2005 and did not become effective for one year after its enactment for any cash register manufactured after January 1, 2005.\n\nThe act established the Red Flags Rule, which required the Federal banking agencies, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Federal Trade Commission to jointly create regulations regarding identity theft prevention applicable to financial institutions and creditors. The Red Flags Rule also addresses how card issuers must respond to changes of address. Regulations that were established as a result include:\n\n\nAnother key item was the requirement that mortgage lenders provide consumers with a Credit Disclosure Notice that included their credit scores, range of scores, credit bureaus, scoring models, and factors affecting their scores. This form is typically available from credit reporting agencies, and many will send this directly to the consumer on the lenders' behalf.\n\nFinancial institutions faced a mandatory deadline of November 1, 2008, to comply with the Red Flags Rule, section 114 and 315 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions (FACT) Act. However, due to widespread confusion over coverage under the act, specifically whether the term \"creditor\" applies to particular businesses, members of Congress repeatedly requested that FTC postpone the deadline for compliance with Section 315 until after December 31, 2010.\n\nAccording to a Business Alert issued by the Federal Trade Commission in June 2008, the Red Flags Rule applies to a very broad list of businesses including \"financial institutions\" and \"creditors\" with \"covered accounts\". A \"creditor\" is defined to include \"lenders such as banks, finance companies, automobile dealers, mortgage brokers, utility companies and telecommunications companies\". However, this is not an all-inclusive list.\n\nThe regulations apply to all businesses that have \"covered accounts\". A \"covered account\" includes any account for which there is a foreseeable risk of identity theft. For example, credit cards, monthly billed accounts like utility bills or cell phone bills, social security numbers, drivers license numbers, medical insurance accounts, and many others. This significantly expands the definition to include all companies, regardless of size, that maintain, or otherwise possess, consumer information for a business purpose. Because of the broad definitions in these regulations, few businesses will be able to escape these requirements.\n\nProvisions in this title require that the Federal Trade Commission, in consultation with the Federal banking agencies and the National Credit Union Agency, \"prepare a model summary of the rights of consumers ... with respect to the procedures for \nremedying the effects of fraud or identity theft...\". Beginning sixty days after the summary of these rights were established, all reporting agencies are required to provide a copy of this summary to any consumer that contacts an agency and states that he believes he has been a victim of fraud or identity theft.\n\nThe Act also allows requires any reporting agency to block the reporting of any information in a consumer's file that the consumer identifies as information that originated from an alleged identity theft. Such agency must block the information within four days of receiving proof, a copy of an identity theft report, the identification of the information by the consumer, and a statement from the consumer that the information is not a result of any transaction he participated in.\n\nAgencies are not required to block any information (and may rescind any existing blocks) in the case that the block was found to be made in error or based on erroneous information as provided by the consumer, or that the consumer \"obtained possession of goods, services, or money as a result of the blocked transaction or transactions.\n\nThis section requires that all consumer reporting agencies develop a means of communicating to each other consumer complaints regarding fraud or identity theft, or requests for fraud alerts or blocks. Furthermore, the section requires that each consumer reporting agency release a report each year to the Federal Trade Commission of fraud alert requests and complaints involving fraud or identity theft received by the reporting agency. Finally, the section requires the Federal Trade Commission to set up a means by which consumers can contact the reporting agencies and creditors with a complaint involving identity theft or fraud.\n\nAfter its enactment, some consumer advocacy groups criticized the FACT Act claiming that it preempts some stricter and already-existing state regulations, and provides exceptions that are 'far too generous' to new regulations regarding disclosure of personal information by banks as found in the act. Furthermore, an article in The Washington Post criticized the difficulty in retrieving the credit reports in some of the states that were first eligible under the act.\n\nVermont, Colorado, Georgia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and California had all established laws by 1994 requiring credit bureaus to provide a free credit report on demand. However, according to U.S. Pirg, \"[w]ith the FACT Act, the financial industry won its primary goal: permanent preemption of stronger state credit and privacy laws.\" Specifically, state laws are preempted in certain areas, such as the content of a consumer report, the responsibilities of \"furnishers\", responses of consumer reporting agencies to disputes over inaccurate information (although there is an exception for statutes in place before 1996), and duties of those who take an adverse action based on a report.\n\nAn article dated March 13, 2005 and published in the Washington Post stated that while \"[r]esidents of six East Coast states—Maryland, Georgia, Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey and Vermont—are already eligible for free reports from all three agencies as a result of state laws\", the phone numbers provided to request these reports connected to automated systems that the article described as \"maddening in their complexity and unforgiving if your circumstances vary from the system's programming.\" Furthermore, the article criticised automated systems for forcing consumers to \"navigate a thicket of recorded information -- including sales pitches for their products, such as a credit 'score' (an evaluation of your creditworthiness) or a 'monitoring' service to help guard against identity theft\". Since 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has published a list of consumer reporting agencies (CRAs). It enables consumers to see which CRAs might be important to them and gives them the contact information of each CRA in the list, so consumers can more easily order their personal consumer reports. Many of the CRAs in the list provide personal reports to consumers for free. The 2016 edition of the list is available on the CFPB's website here.\n\nAs the Red Flag rule widely defines creditors, many businesses (such as utilities) are now required to collect personal information (such as SSN and driver's license numbers) that they do not need and have no use for. This policy is precisely contrary to the FTC's advice to consumers that they should disclose their social security number to companies only when absolutely necessary. This aspect of the Red Flag rule has the unintended consequences of increasing the number of businesses that hold consumers' Social Security numbers, thereby putting consumers at greater risk for identity theft through data theft.\n\n"}
{"id": "40848363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40848363", "title": "Fisheries Law Centre", "text": "Fisheries Law Centre\n\nThe Fisheries Law Centre (FLC) is a grassroots non-profit research centre headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Although FLC is based in Canada, its outreach is global with researchers located in many countries around the world. FLC’s mandate is to ensure family fishermen’ access to justice, to protect our marine environment, to help coastal communities become more resilient, and to assist consumers in accessing safe and sustainable seafood through research, education, and legal representation. The FLC family comprises highly passionate individuals committed to environmental, social, and economic justice.\n\nFLC's research is primarily focused on fisheries law, that is, the legal analysis of fisheries management schemes, seafood laws, and aquaculture regulations. Their research projects on fisheries management schemes studies catch shares (e.g. Individual Transferable quotas); Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fisheries. RFMOs, TURFs, and MPAs. Their seafood studies focuses on sustainable seafood, sustainable and ecolabelling certification schemes, labelling requirement, traceability, and regulatory affairs. Their aquaculture studies primarily focus on fish feed regulations. FLC publishes a quarterly update on legal developments in fisheries law and runs one of the only fisheries law blogs.\n\nIn addition to conducting research, FLC offers internships and volunteer opportunities for aspiring fisheries law advocates. These internships provide students interested in fisheries law with lectures and workshops, as well as numerous opportunities to engage in in-depth conversations with fishermen and leaders in coastal communities. Furthermore, FLC offers continuing legal education (CLE) courses across North America. FLC is an active participant in the fishery community at conferences and law schools around the world. Adam Soliman is the director of FLC and one of very few scholars that focus on fisheries law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2458660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2458660", "title": "Floating charge", "text": "Floating charge\n\nA floating charge is a security interest over a fund of changing assets (e.g. stocks) of a company or other artificial person. Unlike a fixed charge, which is created over ascertained and definite property, a floating charge is created over property of an ambulatory and shifting nature. Examples of such property are receivables and stocks. The floating charge This conversion of the floating charge into a fixed charge (called \"crystallisation\") can trigger common law jurisdictions]] it is an implied term in security documents creating floating charges that a cessation of the company's right to deal with the assets (including by reason of insolvency proceedings) in the ordinary course of business leads to automatic crystallisation. Additionally, security documents will usually include express terms that a default by the person granting the security will trigger crystallisation.\n\nIn most countries floating charges can only be granted by companies, LLPs or similar entities with separate legal personality. If an individual person or a partnership was to try to grant a floating charge, then in most jurisdictions which recognise floating charges this would be void as a general assignment in bankruptcy.\n\nFloating charges take effect in equity only, and consequently are defeated by a \"bona fide\" purchaser for value without notice of any asset covered by them. In practice, as the chargor has power to dispose of assets subject to a floating charge, so this is only of consequence in relation to disposals that occur after the charge has crystallised.\n\nThe floating charge has been described as \"one of equity's most brilliant creations.\"\n\nThe first recorded English case where a floating charge was recognised was \"In re Panama, New Zealand, and Australian Royal Mail Co\" (1870) 5 Ch App 318. The use of such floating charges increased in popularity and expanded rapidly until, as Lord Walker described it: \"The floating charge had become a cuckoo in the nest of corporate insolvency.\" Criticism of the effect of floating charges grew, until Lord Macnaghten finally proclaimed in :\n\nThis led to a push back against the effect of floating charges in the form of the Preferential Payments in Bankruptcy Amendment Act 1897.\n\nLater in \"Illingworth v Houldsworth\" [1904] AC 355 at 358 he stated:\n\nA description was subsequently given in \"Re Yorkshire Woolcombers Association\" [1903] 2 Ch 284, and despite Romer LJ clearly stating in that case that he did not intend to give a definition of the term floating charge, his description is generally cited as the most authoritative definition of what a floating charge is:\n\n\nWhen conducting a recent review of the authorities, in keeping with that tradition, in \"National Westminster bank plc v Spectrum Plus Ltd\" [2005] UKHL 41, the House of Lords elected instead to describe the essential characteristic of a floating charge rather than define it, and they described it thus:\n\nIn \"National Westminster bank plc v Spectrum Plus Limited and others\" [2005] UKHL 41 the House of Lords finally brought some clarity to this area of the law. The essential test of whether a charge was a fixed charge related to the chargor's power to continue to deal with the asset. In order to preserve the status of a charge as a fixed one, the bank must exercise actual control over disposal of the asset. If the chargor is able to deal with the asset, such as by drawing from the account in which charged funds are kept, or into which the proceeds of trade receivables are deposited, then the holder of the charge does not have effective control. The judges held that as this is inconsistent with the status of the charge as fixed (if the chargor company is able to use the proceeds in the ordinary course of its business without the consent of the charge holder), the charge could only take effect as a floating charge.\n\nSeveral authors have suggested that the floating chargee, prior to crystallisation, may have no proprietary interest at all in the charged assets. However, this is inconsistent with cases (such as \"Spectrum\") at the highest level which suggest a proprietary interest does exist.\n\nAlternatively, the floating chargee may have an inchoate type of proprietary interest, with characteristics that are proprietary but of a lesser order than the proprietary interest of a chargee with a fixed charge. Some authors have suggested that there is an interest in a fund of assets, but the nature and incidents of the interest remain unclear. This has received some judicial support, from Lord Walker in \"Spectrum\", for example.\n\nAnother possibility is that the holder of a floating charge may have the same quality of proprietary interest as a fixed chargee, but one that is subject to defeasance or overreaching by permitted dealings by the chargor with the charged assets.\n\nHistorically, floating charges are a fascinating concept in that they are legal devices created entirely by lawyers in private practice; there is no legislation and no judicial decision that was the genesis of a floating charge. In 1862 in an apparently unconnected decision of \"Holroyd v Marshall\" (1862) 10 HL Cas 191 it was held that equity would recognise a charge over after-acquired property as being effective to create a security interest over that property automatically upon its acquisition.\n\nThis decision lead to \"a further manifestation of the English genius for harnessing the most abstract conceptions to the service of commerce.\" Documents came to be drafted that purported to grant security over all of the debtor's present and future property, but by contract expressly permitted the debtor to dispose of those assets, free from the charge, until such times as the debtor's business ceased. This charge came to be known as the \"floating charge\".\n\nThe first case in which a floating security device was tested and upheld came a mere eight years after \"Holroyd v Marshall\" in \"In re Panama, New Zealand, and Australian Royal Mail Co\" (1870) 5 Ch App 318; a remarkably quick gestation by any reckoning. The Court of Appeal held that the effect of the document was that the secured creditor could not interfere with the running of the business and its dealings with its own assets until the winding up of the company, but the occurrence of that event entitled the secured creditor to realise its security over the assets and to assert its charge in priority to the general body of creditors.\n\nAny residual concern about the efficacy of such charges were comprehensively ousted by the House of Lords in \"Salomon v A Salomon & Co Ltd\" [1897] AC 22.\n\nFloating charges are enormously popular as a security device for two principal reasons. From the secured creditor's perspective, the security will cover each and every asset of the chargor. From the charger's perspective, although all of their assets are encumbered, because the security \"floats\", they remain free to deal with the assets and dispose of them in the ordinary course of business, thereby obtaining the maximum credit benefit from the lender, but without the inconvenience of requiring the secured creditor's consent to dispose of stock in trade.\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions, floating charges are required to be registered in order to perfect them; otherwise they may be unenforceable on the bankruptcy of the debtor. This registration requirement has often led to other property rights (such as rights under a defective retention of title clause), which have been re-characterized as a floating charge being held to be void for non-registration.\n\nBroadly speaking, holding a floating charge gives the secured creditor two key remedies in the event of non-payment of the secured debt by the company. Firstly, the secured creditor can crystallise the charge, and then sell off any assets that the charge then attaches to as if the charge was a fixed charge. Secondly (and more frequently the case, to preserve the company as a going concern), if the floating charge encompasses substantially all of the assets and undertaking of the company, the secured creditor can appoint an administrative receiver to take over the management and control of the business with a view to discharging the debt out of income or selling off the entire business as a going concern.\n\nIn countries that permit the making of an administration order, the floating charge had another key benefit. The holder of a floating charge could appoint an administrative receiver and block the appointment of a court-appointed administrator, and thus retain control of the distribution of the assets of the company. Practice became such that companies were asked to give \"lightweight\" floating charges to secured lenders which had no collateral value purely to allow the holders to block administration orders, an approach that was approved by the courts in \"Re Croftbell Ltd\" [1990] BCC 781. In the United Kingdom the law has now been changed by statute, but the power to block appointments of administrators has been retained in many other common law jurisdictions.\n\nStrictly speaking, it is not possible to enforce a floating charge at all - the charge must first crystallise into a fixed charge. In the absence of any special provisions in the relevant document, a floating charge crystallises either upon the appointment of a receiver or upon the commencement of liquidation. It has also been suggested, relying upon \"obiter dictum\" comments by Lord Macnaghten in \"Government Stocks and Securities Investments Co Ltd v Manila Rly Co\" that a charge should also crystallise upon the company ceasing to trade as a going concern. However, this view is not yet supported by judicial authority.\n\nIn certain countries, notably Australia and New Zealand, it was for a time very common to include \"automatic crystallisation\" provisions which would provide that the floating charge would crystallise upon an event of default automatically and without action from the chargee. Automatic crystallisation provisions have been upheld in New Zealand but there are judicial comments suggesting they may not be recognised as effective in Canada. In the United Kingdom there is some inferential support for the validity of automatic crystallisation provisions, but they have never been subject to full judicial consideration.\n\nThe main purpose of any security is to enable the secured creditor to have priority of claim to the bankrupt party's assets in the event of an insolvency. However, because of the nature of floating charge, the priority of floating charge holder's claims normally rank behind:\n\n\nThe floating charge cannot normally be enforced until it has crystallised (and thus, effectively, become a fixed charge) and so most statutes provide that the priority of a fixed charge that was created as a floating charge is treated as a floating charge.\n\nBecause of the differences in priority of fixed charges and floating charges, security documents came to be drafted to contain as many charges expressed to be fixed charges as possible, and leave as little as possible covered by the floating charge, where it would have secondary priority to the claims of the preferential creditors. A number of judicial decisions gave conflicting interpretations over the characteristics that were definitive of a fixed charge, particularly with reference to charges over book debts (and a fixed charge that did not contain those characteristics would be \"recharacterised\" as a floating charge). The position was definitively resolved in \"NatWest v Spectrum Plus Limited\" when the House of Lords confirmed that a charge over book debts could be a fixed charge, provided that the secured creditor exhibited the necessary degree of control over the proceeds of the book debts. This would normally require that they either be paid into a blocked account, or that they be paid directly to the secured creditor. Any lesser degree of control was not consistent with a fixed charge, and such charges would be construed as floating charges, regardless of what label the parties had given them.\n\nFloating charges have been criticised as a \"raw deal\" for unsecured creditors. In \"Salomon v. Salomon & Co.\" [1897] AC 22 Lord Macnaghten observed that the injustice of the case (as he saw it) was not caused by the introduction of the concept of limited liability, but by the excessive security created by the floating charge. In \"Re London Pressed Hinge Co Ltd\" [1905] 1 Ch 576 Buckley J observed that great mischief arose from the very nature of the floating charge as few of general unsecured trade creditors of the company would even be aware of its existence.\n\nAs most secured lenders will not usually have recourse to their security until the debtor company is in a parlous financial state, the usual position is that even all the remaining assets of the company are not enough to repay the debt secured by the floating charge, leaving the unsecured creditors with nothing. This perception has led to a widening of the classes of preferred creditors who take ahead of the floating charge holders in a number of countries. The introduction of a regime of voidable floating charges for floating charges taken just prior to the onset of insolvency is a partial response to these criticisms.\n\nSome countries have also sought to \"ring fence\" recoveries made for wrongful trading or fraudulent trading from the floating charge to create an artificial pool of assets available to the unsecured creditors.\n\nBecause of the potential for abuse of a security interest that catches all of a company's assets, many jurisdictions have enacted provisions in their insolvency legislation providing that a floating charge granted shortly prior to the company going into liquidation will be invalid, or invalid to the extent that it does not secure new loans made to the company.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, because of their dramatic effect on the availability of assets to unsecured creditors on an insolvency, floating charges are required to be registered.\n\nAn analogous (but not identical) concept in the United States to the floating charge is the floating lien, which was implemented by Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code.\n\nThe U.S. never adopted the floating charge directly because at the time it was developing in England in the 19th century, U.S. courts generally held that a debtor simply could not create a security interest in future property; general creditors ought to have a pool of unencumbered assets to look to; and even if such a thing could exist, it was a fraudulent conveyance. However, creditors' lawyers gradually developed an diverse variety of methods, some authorized by state legislatures and others tolerated by state courts, to evade the general ban on security interests in future property. As it had become clear that creditors and debtors were going to find ways to create enforceable \"de facto\" security interests in after-acquired property and general intangibles whether courts liked it or not, the UCC drafters in the 1940s (particularly Grant Gilmore) successfully argued that such interests should be legitimized and simplified in the form of the floating lien.\n\nA critical difference between the floating charge and the floating lien is that UCC security interests, including floating liens, can be granted by \"any\" kind of debtor, including individuals or partnerships (and will thus have priority in bankruptcy), whereas the floating charge can be granted only by corporate entities.\n\nWhen the Quebec Civil Code came into force in 1994 and superseded the Civil Code of Lower Canada, it abolished the \"charge flottante\" \"floating charge\" and created and introduced an analogous security device into Quebec law under the name \"hypothèque ouverte\", or \"floating mortgage\". As a mortgage, it\n\nThe floating mortgage can be specific or general with respect to immovables and movables, separately or together. The mortgage is not perfected until it crystallises. Crystallisation occurs upon default of the mortgagor and registration of a notice of default, and the mortgage ranks from the date notice is filed. This means that a floating mortgage ranks lower than a fixed mortgage.\n\nCivil law countries generally allow for a commercial pledge to be taken over the pooled movable assets held or acquired for the use of a business or income-producing activity (going concern) and not for sale. The pool is restricted to movable (personal) property of a long-term nature and of value to the operation of the business, or in other words:\n\nThe pledge never crystallises like a floating charge; instead the pool is a \"universitas rerum\" and treated as a single movable security subject. The asset pool is referred to as a \"\" (French), \"\" (Spanish), \"fondo di commercio\" (Italian), \"Geschäftsfonds\" (German), \"handelsfonds\" (Dutch), and so on.\n\nBesides the class of assets secured, the civilian commercial pledge differs from a floating charge in that fixed assets are not always changing, and the creditor ranks prior to all secured and unsecured claims. Commercial pledges exist in common law countries but are usually taken over working capital (floating assets and investments).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25113963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25113963", "title": "Green building in South Africa", "text": "Green building in South Africa\n\nGreen building in South Africa is overseen by The Green Building Council of South Africa (launched 2007) which has developed Green Star SA rating tools, based on those developed by the Green Building Council of Australia tools, to provide the property industry with an objective measurement for green buildings and to recognize and reward environmental leadership in the property industry. Each Green Star SA rating tool reflects a different market sector (e.g. office, retail, multi-unit residential, etc.). The first tool developed was Green Star SA - Office which was published in pilot form for public comment in July 2008, with final version 1 release at the Green Building Council of South Africa Convention & Exhibition ’08 on 2–4 November 2008.\n\nSouth Africa is in the process of incorporating an energy standard (SANS 204) which aims to provide energy-saving practices as a basic standard in the South African context.\n\nGreen Building Media (launched in 2007) has also played an instrumental role in green building in South Africa, through their informational portal, as well as their monthly Green Building e-Journal of South Africa, which is sent to professionals within the built environment. They currently hold two annual events which focusing on sustainability; the Green Building Conference and a Retrofitting Seminar.\n\nDorah Modise is the CEO of the Green Building Council South Africa. Ms Modise took over the reins from outgoing CEO Brian Wilkinson in February 2017.\n\nA new green building certification programme has been brought to South Africa thanks to the Green Building Council South Africa (GBCSA) and its partnership with World Bank Group member, the International Finance Corporation (IFC).\n\nThe GBCSA in Cape Town (15 September 2014) the launch of the “EDGE” rating system, to be utilised for homes in South Africa. The launch comes in the wake of the GBCSA’s hugely successful My Green Home education and awareness campaign for the greening of homes, in addition to a detailed market research study jointly led by IFC and the GBCSA on the potential need and impact of EDGE in the South African market.\n\nEDGE, which stands for “Excellence in Design for Greater Efficiencies,” seeks to help facilitate a transformation of the property sector in rapidly urbanising countries by influencing design considerations. To achieve the EDGE standard, minimum savings of 20% energy, water, and embodied energy in materials must be met.\n\nThe goal of IFC’s EDGE programme is to help build capacity for developers, banks, and governments to mainstream resource-efficient buildings in rapidly growing economies around the world. With EDGE, builders can assess the most cost-effective ways of bringing green features into their designs, financiers can offer better terms to developers and green mortgages for homeowners, and governments can do their part through incentives and improved regulations.\n\nEDGE has been adapted for the local South African context, especially in light of the SANS 10400 Part XA energy efficiency building code. This code was promulgated for all new buildings in 2011.\n\nSince 2009, IFC has invested more than $600 million in green buildings, including homes, commercial buildings, hotels, and hospitals, both directly and through financial partners. IFC has also provided regulatory advice to the governments of Colombia, Panama, the Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Bangladesh. As part of its climate strategy, IFC has developed EDGE to encourage resource-efficient building design by proving the business case for building green.\n\n"}
{"id": "40547575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40547575", "title": "H.R. 1003 (113th Congress)", "text": "H.R. 1003 (113th Congress)\n\n, long title \"To improve consideration by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of the costs and benefits of its regulations and orders\" is a bill that was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. H.R. 1003 would broaden the items for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to consider when assessing costs and benefits of a proposed regulation. Further, the bill would require the agency to adopt such a regulation only if it determines that the estimated benefits justify the estimated costs.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nH.R. 1003 would amend the Commodity Exchange Act to revise the requirement that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), before promulgating a regulation or issuing an order, consider the costs and benefits of the action. The bill would require the CFTC, through the Office of the Chief Economist, to: (1) assess the costs and benefits, both qualitative and quantitative, of an intended regulation; and (2) propose or adopt a regulation only on a reasoned determination that the benefits justify the costs.\n\nThe bill also lists additional mandatory considerations for the CFTC to evaluate in making a reasoned determination of the costs and the benefits, including the impact on market liquidity in the futures and swaps markets, as well as alternatives to direct regulation.\n\nH.R. 1003 would broaden the items for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to consider when assessing costs and benefits of a proposed regulation. Further, the bill would require the agency to adopt such a regulation only if it determines that the estimated benefits justify the estimated costs.\n\nBased on information from the CFTC, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing H.R. 1003 would cost $28 million over the 2014-2018 period, assuming appropriation of the necessary amounts. Enacting H.R. 1003 would not affect direct spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply.\n\nH.R. 1003 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would not affect the budgets of state, local, or tribal governments.\n\nH.R. 1003 was introduced into the House by Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R, TX-11) on March 6, 2013. It was referred to the United States House Committee on Agriculture, which held hearing about the bill on March 14, 2013. Committee consideration and markup were held on March 20, 2013, when it was ordered to be reported by voice vote. The House Majority Leader Eric Cantor placed the bill on the House Schedule on September 13, 2013 for consideration under a suspension of the rules on September 17.\n\nH.R. 1003 was supported by several trad organizations including the Agricultural Retailers Association, the Business Roundtable, the National Association of Corporate Treasurers, the National Association of Manufacturers, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Together they wrote a joint letter in support of the bill arguing that they support \"the strong policy imperative for transparent economic analysis as part of the rulemaking process, even for independent regulators, and this legislation will ensure the CFTC balances the costs with the benefits before issuing rulemakings and orders.\"\n\nAccording to Paul Schott Stevens, the President and CEO of the Investment Company Institute (ICI), Rep. Conaway sponsored H.R. 1003 in reaction to \"significant criticism\" of the CFTC's inadequate cost-benefit analysis. This criticism was leveled both by Congress and by the CFTC's own commissioners. According to Stevens, \"given the significantly increased volume of rulemaking by the CFTC in recent years, we agree it is critical that the agency be required to conduct a thorough and thoughful analysis of the costs and benefits of its proposed regulations.\"\n\nProponents of the bill argued that it would improve the quality of the rules passed by the CFTC by forcing the CFTC to do more through cost benefit analyses.\n\nOpponents of the bill feared it would make it easier for industry groups to challenge the rules made by the CFTC in court. They also expressed concern that the costs of such rules are often easier to quantify than the proposed benefits, which could lead to costs being overestimated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30871819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871819", "title": "Law enforcement agency", "text": "Law enforcement agency\n\nA law enforcement agency (LEA), in North American English, is a government agency responsible for the enforcement of the laws.\n\nOutside North America, such organizations are usually called police services. In North America, some of these services are called police, others are known as sheriff's offices/departments, while investigative police services in the United States are often called bureaus, for example the Federal Bureau of Investigation.\n\nLEAs which have their ability to apply their powers restricted in some way are said to operate within a jurisdiction.\n\nLEAs will have some form of geographic restriction on their ability to apply their powers. The LEA might be able to apply its powers within a country, for example the United States of America's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, within a division of a country, for example the Australian state Queensland Police, or across a collection of countries, for example international organizations such as Interpol, or the European Union's Europol.\n\nLEAs which operate across a collection of countries tend to assist in law enforcement activities, rather than directly enforcing laws, by facilitating the sharing of information necessary for law enforcement between LEAs within those countries, for example Europol has no executive powers.\n\nSometimes a LEA’s jurisdiction is determined by the complexity or seriousness of the non compliance with a law. Some countries determine the jurisdiction in these circumstances by means of policy and resource allocation between agencies, for example in Australia, the Australian Federal Police take on complex serious matters referred to it by an agency and the agency will undertake its own investigations of less serious or complex matters by consensus, while other countries have laws which decide the jurisdiction, for example in the United States of America some matters are required by law to be referred to other agencies if they are of a certain level of seriousness or complexity, for example cross state boundary kidnapping in the United States is escalated to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Differentiation of jurisdiction based on the seriousness and complexity of the non compliance either by law or by policy and consensus can coexist in countries.\n\nA LEA which has a wide range of powers but whose ability is restricted geographically, typically to an area which is only part of a country, is typically referred to as local police or territorial police. Other LEAs have a jurisdiction defined by the type of laws they enforce or assist in enforcing. For example, Interpol does not work with political, military, religious, or racial matters.\n\nA LEA’s jurisdiction usually also includes the governing bodies they support, and the LEA itself.\n\nJurisdictionally, there can be an important difference between international LEAs and multinational LEAs, even though both are often referred to as \"international\", even in official documents. An international law enforcement agency has jurisdiction and or operates in multiple countries and across State borders, for example Interpol.\n\nA multinational law enforcement agency will typically operate in only one country, or one division of a country, but is made up of personnel from several countries, for example the European Union Police Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina. international LEAs are typically also multinational, for example Interpol, but multinational LEAs are not typically international.\n\nWithin a country, the jurisdiction of law enforcement agencies can be organized and structured in a number of ways to provide law enforcement throughout the country. A law enforcement agency’s jurisdiction can be for the whole country or for a division or sub-division within the country.\n\nLEA jurisdiction for a division within a country can typically be at more than one level, for example at the division level, that is state, province, or territory level, and for example at the sub division level, that is county, shire, or municipality or metropolitan area level. In Australia for example, each state has its own LEAs. In the United States for example, typically each state and county or city has its own LEAs.\n\nAs a result, because both Australia and the United States are federations and have federal LEAs, Australia has two levels of law enforcement and the United States has multiple levels of law enforcement, Federal, Tribal, State, County, City, Town, Village, special Jurisdiction and others.\n\nOften a LEA’s jurisdiction will be geographically divided into operations areas for administrative and logistical efficiency reasons. An operations area is often called a command or an office.\n\nWhile the operations area of a LEA is sometimes referred to as a jurisdiction, any LEA operations area usually still has legal jurisdiction in all geographic areas the LEA operates, but by policy and consensus the operations area does not normally operate in other geographical operations areas of the LEA. For example, the United Kingdom’s Metropolitan Police is divided into 32 Borough Operational Command Units, based on the London boroughs, and the New York City Police Department is divided into 77 precincts.\n\nSometimes the one legal jurisdiction is covered by more than one LEA, again for administrative and logistical efficiency reasons, or arising from policy, or historical reasons. For example, the area of jurisdiction of English and Welsh law is covered by a number of LEAs called constabularies, each of which has legal jurisdiction over the whole area covered by English and Welsh law, but they do not normally operate out of their areas without formal liaison between them.\n\nThe primary difference between separate agencies and operational areas within the one legal jurisdiction is the degree of flexibility to move resources between versus within agencies. When multiple LEAs cover the one legal jurisdicition, each agency still typically organises itself into operations areas.\n\nIn the United States within a state's legal jurisdiction, county and city police agencies do not have full legal jurisdictional flexibility throughout the state, and this has led in part to mergers of adjacent police agencies.\n\nWhen a LEA’s jurisdiction is for the whole country, it is usually one of two broad types, either federal or national.\n\nWhen the country has a federal constitution, a whole-of-country LEA is referred to as a federal law enforcement agency.\n\nThe responsibilities of a federal LEA vary from country to country. Federal LEA responsibilities are typically countering fraud against the federation, immigration and border control regarding people and goods, investigating currency counterfeiting, policing of airports and protection of designated national infrastructure, national security, and the protection of the country’s head of state and of other designated very important persons, for example the Protective Service of the Australian Federal Police, or the Protective Mission of the United States Secret Service; and the U.S. State Department's Diplomatic Security Service (DSS).\n\nA federal police agency is a federal LEA which also has the typical police responsibilities of social order and public safety as well as federal law enforcement responsibilities. However, a federal police agency will not usually exercise its powers at a divisional level. Such exercising of powers is typically via specific arrangements between the federal and divisional governing bodies.\n\nExamples of federal law enforcement agencies are the Australian Federal Police (Australia), Federal Police of Brazil (Brazil), Central Bureau of Investigation (India), Federal Bureau of Investigation, Federal Protective Service, United States Park Police (United States), Royal Canadian Mounted Police (Canada), and the State Security Service (Nigeria).\n\nA federated approach to the organisation of a country does not necessarily indicate the nature of the organisation of law enforcement agencies within the country. Some countries, for example Austria and Belgium, have a relatively unified approach to law enforcement, but still have operationally separate units for federal law enforcement and divisional policing. The United States has a highly fractured approach to law enforcement agencies generally, and this is reflected in American federal law enforcement agencies.\n\nIn a federation, there will typically be separate LEAs with jurisdictions for each division within the federation. A federal LEA will have primary responsibility for laws which affect the federation as whole, and which have been enacted by the governing body of the federation.\n\nMembers of a federal LEA may be given jurisdiction within a division of a federation for laws enacted by the governing bodies of the divisions either by the relevant division within the federation, or by the federation's governing body. For example, the Australian Federal Police is a federal agency and has the legal power to enforce the laws enacted by any Australian state, but will generally only enforce state law if there is a federal aspect to investigate.\n\nTypically federal LEAs have relatively narrow police responsibilities, the individual divisions within the federation usually establish their own police agencies to enforce laws within the division. However, in some countries federal agencies have jurisdiction in divisions of the federation.\n\nThis typically happens when the division does not have its own independent status and is dependent on the federation. For example, the Australian Federal Police is the police agency with jurisdiction in Australia’s dependent territories, Jervis Bay Territory, Cocos Islands, Antarctic Territory, and Christmas Island Similarly, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) is a federal agency and is the sole police agency for Canada’s three territories, Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Yukon.\n\nNote that this is a direct jurisdictional responsibility and is different from the situation when a governing body makes arrangements with another governing body's LEA to provide law enforcement for its subjects. This latter type of arrangement is described under Establishment and constitution of law enforcement agencies.\n\nSome federations escalate non compliance with laws with divisional or federal laws which involve multiple divisions within the federation to a federal LEA. The United States for example escalates kidnapping to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.\n\nIn Australia, states liaise directly with each other when non compliance with laws crosses state boundaries. Some countries provide law enforcement on land and in buildings owned or controlled by the federation by using a federal LEA, for example the United States’s Department of Homeland Security is responsible for some aspects of federal property law enforcement.\n\nOther countries, for example Australia, provide law enforcement for federal property via federal LEAs and the LEAs for the division of the federation in which the property is located.\n\nTypically LEAs working in different jurisdictions which overlap in the type of law non compliance actively establish mechanisms for cooperation and even establish joint operations and joints task forces. Often, members of a LEA working outside of their normal jurisdiction on joint operations or task force are sworn in as special members of the host jurisdiction.\n\nA national law enforcement agency is a LEA in a country which does not have divisions capable of making their own laws. A national LEA will have the combined responsibilities that federal LEAs and divisional LEAs would have in a federated country.\n\nNational LEAs are usually divided into operations areas.\n\nA national police agency is a national LEA which also has the typical police responsibilities of social order and public safety as well as national law enforcement responsibilities. Examples of countries with national police agencies are Canada, New Zealand, Italy, France, Japan, Netherlands, Philippines and Nicaragua.\n\nTo help avoid confusion over jurisdictional responsibility, some federal LEAs explicitly advise that they are not a national law enforcement agency, for example the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation does this.\n\nLEAs can be responsible for the enforcement of laws affecting the behaviour of people or the general community, for example the New York City Police Department, or the behaviour of commercial organisations and corporations, for example the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, of for the benefit of the country as a whole, for example the United Kingdom’s Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.\n\nA LEA can be responsible for enforcing secular law or religious law, for example Sharia or Halakha. The significant majority of LEAs around the world are secular, their governing bodies separating religious matters from the governance of their subjects. Religious law enforcement agencies, for example Saudi Arabia’s Mutaween, exist where full separation of government and religious doctrine has not occurred, and are generally referred to as police agencies, typically religious police, because their primary responsibility is for social order within their jurisdiction and the relevant social order being highly codified as laws.\n\nOften, a LEA will have a specific internal unit to ensure that the LEA is complying with relevant laws, for example the United States’ Federal Bureau of Investigation's Office of Professional Responsibility. In some countries or divisions within countries, specialised or separate LEAs are established to ensure that other LEAs comply with laws, for example the Australian state New South Wales Independent Commission Against Corruption. LEA internal self compliance units and external LEA compliance agencies coexist in many countries. Names given to LEA internal self compliance units are typically, Internal Affairs, Internal Investigations, Professional Standards.\n\nMany law enforcement agencies are police agencies that have a broad range powers and responsibilities. A police agency, however, also often has a range of responsibilities not specifically related to law enforcement. These responsibilities relate to social order and public safety. While this understanding of policing, being more encompassing than just law enforcement has grown with and is commonly understood by society, it is recognised formally by scholars and academics. A police agency’s jurisdiction for social order and public safety will normally be the same as its jurisdiction for law enforcement.\n\nMilitary organisations often have law enforcement units. These units within armed forces are generally referred to as military police. This may refer to:\n\n\nThe exact usage and meaning of the terms \"Military\", \"military police\", \"provost\", and \"gendarmie\" varies from country to country.\n\nNon-military law enforcement agencies are sometimes referred to as civilian police, but usually only in contexts where they need to be distinguished from military police. However, they may still possess a military structure and protocol.\n\nIn most countries, the term \"law enforcement agency\" when used formally includes agencies other than only police agencies. The term \"law enforcement agency\" is often used in the United States of America to refer to police agencies, however, it also includes agencies with peace officer status or agencies which prosecute criminal acts. A county prosecutor or district attorney is considered to be the chief law enforcement officer of a county.\n\nOther responsibilities of LEAs are typically related to assisting subjects to avoid non compliance with a law, assisting subjects to remain safe and secure, assisting subjects after a safety impacting event. For example:\n\nMany LEAs have administrative and service responsibilities, often as their major responsibility, as well as their law enforcement responsibilities. This is typical of agencies such as customs or taxation agencies, which provide services and facilities to allow subjects to comply with relevant laws as their primary responsibilities.\n\nPrivate police are law enforcement bodies that are owned or controlled by non-governmental entities. Private police are often utilized in places where public law enforcement is seen as being under-provided. For example, the San Francisco Patrol Special Police, which still exist today. It is argued that Private Law Enforcement may serve as a superior alternative to a government monopoly law enforcement.\n\nMany LEAs are also involved in the monitoring or application of regulations and codes of practice. See, for example, Australian Commercial Television Code of Practice, building code, and code enforcement. Monitoring of the application of regulations and codes of practice is not normally considered law enforcement. However, the consistent non-compliance by a subject with regulations or codes of practice may result in the revocation of a licence for the subject to operate, and operating without a licence is typically illegal. Also, the failure to apply codes of practice can impact other subjects’ safety and life, which can also be illegal.\n\nTypically a LEA is established and constituted by the governing body it is supporting, and the personnel making up the LEA are from the governing body’s subjects, for example the Australian Federal Police is established and constituted by virtue of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979.\n\nBy Definition, federal LEAs can only be established by the governing body of the relevant federation, divisional and sub divisional LEAs can only be established by their relevant governing bodies, and national LEAs can only be established by the national governing body of a country.\n\nFor reasons of either logistical efficiency or policy, some divisions with a country will not establish their own LEAs but will instead make arrangements with another LEA, typically from the same country, to provide law enforcement within the division. For example, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) is a federal agency and is contracted by most of Canada's provinces and many municipalities to police those divisions, even though law enforcement in Canada is constitutionally a divisional responsibility. This arrangement has been achieved by formal agreement between those divisions and the RCMP and reduces the number of agencies policing the same geographical area. Similarly, the Australian Federal Police (AFP) is a federal agency and is the contracted police agency for the Australian Capital Territory. and Norfolk Island.\n\nIn circumstances where a country or division within a country is not able to establish stable or effective LEAs, typically police agencies, the country might invite other countries to provide personnel, experience, and organisational structure to constitute a LEA, for example the Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands which has a Participating Police Force working in conjunction with the Solomon Islands Police Force, or where the United Nations is already providing an administrative support capability within the country, the United Nations may directly establish and constitute a LEA on behalf of the country, for example for Timor-Leste from 1999 to 2002.\n\nTo enable a LEA to prevent, detect, and investigate non compliance with laws, the LEA is endowed with powers by its governing body which are not available to non LEA subjects of a governing body. Typically, a LEA is empowered to varying degrees to:\nThese powers are not available to subjects other than LEAs within the LEA's jurisdiction and are typically subject to judicial and civil overview.\n\nUsually, these powers are only allowed when it can be shown that a subject is probably already not complying with a law. For example, to undertake an intrusive search, typically a LEA must make an argument and convince a judicial officer of the need to undertake the intrusive search on the basis that it will help detect or prove non-compliance with a law by a specified subject. The judicial officer, if they agree, will then issue a legal instrument, typically called a Search warrant, to the LEA, which must be presented to the relevant subject if possible.\n\nSubjects who do not comply with laws will usually seek to avoid detection by a LEA. When required, in order for the LEA to detect and investigate subjects not complying with laws, the LEA must be able to undertake its activities secretly from the non complying subject. This, however, may require the LEA to explicitly not comply with a law other subjects must comply with. To allow the LEA to operate and comply with the law, it is given lawful exemption to undertake secret activities. Secret activities by a LEA are often referred to as covert operations.\n\nTo deceive a subject and carryout its activities, a LEA may be lawfully allowed to secretly:\nto typically collect information about and evidence of non compliance with a law and identify other non complying subjects.\n\nLawful deception and utilisation of law exemption by a LEA is typically subject to very strong judicial or open civil overview. For example, the Australian Federal Police's controlled operations are subject to open civil review by its governing body, the Parliament of Australia.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies have other exemptions from laws to allow them to operate in a practical way. For example, many jurisdictions have laws which forbid animals from entering certain areas for health and safety reasons. LEAs are typically exempted from these laws to allow dogs to be used for search and rescue, drug search, explosives search, chase and arrest, etc. This type of exemption is not unique to LEAs. Sight assist dogs are also typically exempted from access restrictions. Members of LEAs may be permitted to openly display firearms in places where this is typically prohibited to civilians, violate various traffic laws when responding to crimes, or detain persons against their will to investigate suspected crimes.\n\nInterpol is an international organisation and is essentially stateless, but must operate from some physical location. Interpol is protected from certain laws of the country where it is physically located.\n\nBecause the enforcement of laws has, by definition, a major impact on the society the laws apply to, the agencies which enforce the laws have a specific relevance to the societies in which they operate.\n\nSome LEAs have been immortalised in history, literature, and popular media, for example the United Kingdom's Scotland Yard, the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police\n\nA small number of LEAs, particularly secret police forces which are unaccountable or have unrestricted powers, are not generally respected by their governing bodies’ subjects, due to the negative impact they have on the subjects.\n\nMany fictional LEAs have been created in popular media and literature. See for example List of fictional secret police and intelligence organizations and List of fictional police forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "37439955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37439955", "title": "List of Irish constitutional conventions", "text": "List of Irish constitutional conventions\n\nSeveral constitutional conventions have considered or proposed constitutions for the island of Ireland or for one of its two jurisdictions, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "36484636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36484636", "title": "List of UK Parliamentary election petitions", "text": "List of UK Parliamentary election petitions\n\nIn the United Kingdom, an election petition is the only way that the result of an election can be questioned. The Parliamentary Elections Act 1868 transferred the jurisdiction for determining an election petition from Parliament to the courts. The table lists all those petitions which came to trial.\n\n\nThe Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883 substantially altered and strengthened the law in respect of election offences.\n\nIn some cases a petition was presented and security for costs was given, but the petitioner applied to withdraw the petition before trial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11017180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11017180", "title": "List of people called by the Colombian Supreme court in the parapolitics scandal", "text": "List of people called by the Colombian Supreme court in the parapolitics scandal\n\nList of people called by the Colombian Supreme Court in the Colombian parapolitics scandal. Going to court doesn't mean being indicted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17196207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17196207", "title": "Lord Eliot Convention", "text": "Lord Eliot Convention\n\nThe Lord Eliot Convention, or simply the Eliot Convention or Eliot Treaty (), was an April 1835 agreement brokered by Edward Eliot, 3rd Earl of St Germans between the two opposing sides of the First Carlist War. It had as its aim not to end the war itself but to end the indiscriminate executions by firing squad that had been committed by both sides. \n\nEdward Eliot had become Secretary of Legation at Madrid on 21 November 1821 and was styled \"Lord Eliot\" in 1826.\n\nDuring the First Carlist War, which began in 1833, Carlist prisoners who did not accept Isabel II as their sovereign were executed by firing squad. \n\nEarly Isabeline executions include that of Santos Ladrón de Cegama on October 14, 1833 at Pamplona. On December 4, 1833, Vicente Genaro de Quesada, captain-general of Old Castile, executed five Carlists by firing squad at Burgos. The prisoners were given four hours to prepare for death, though the archbishop of Burgos requested, on December 6, 1833, that in future prisoners be given twenty-four hours to prepare for death. Quesada responded to this with: \"...it would be pointless one way or another how much time we give before executing them\" (\"...será inútil la menor o mayor concesión de tiempo para ejecutarlos\"). \n\nThe Carlists also began to execute their prisoners in this way, because they wanted to perform reprisals against the enemy, and due to limited space at their disposal with which to house their prisoners. Not being able to take their prisoners with them on mountain campaigns, for example, the Carlists executed their prisoners before moving to a new location. Liberal soldiers found hiding in the aftermath of the Battle of Alegría de Álava (October 27, 1834), for example, were shot or bayoneted on sight., and the Liberal commander during that battle, Manuel O'Doyle, was executed by firing squad on October 28, 1834.\n\nA notorious incident was the execution of 118 Isabeline prisoners by the Carlists at the town of Heredia (in Spain, called \"Fusilamientos de Heredia\") by the order of Tomás de Zumalacárregui. \n\nEspartero complained at Bilbao about the barbaric executions of the war, stating that it was prudent for the government to regulate the treatment of prisoners between the two opposing sides, in accordance with practices enacted between two opposing countries, \"according to the general laws concerning the rights of men and of war.\"\n\nThe issue was discussed by the British government, which decided to send a commission to ensure that both sides reach an agreement to suppress these indiscriminate executions, and Lord Eliot and Colonel John Gurwood were appointed as commissioners. One historian has written that \"the reciprocal massacre of prisoners had several times occurred, and the deadliest hatred and revenge was manifestly encouraged by both parties; in short, so savagely was the Spanish contest carried on, that the duke of Wellington, from motives of humanity, sent Lord Elliott and Colonel Gurwood on a mission to Spain, to endeavour to put a stop to the cruelties practiced by the belligerents, and render the war less bloody and revengeful.\" \n\n\"They spoke perfect French and Spanish, and appeared to be admirably prepared for the job for which they were appointed, due to their conciliatory manner and their understanding of the country [i.e. Spain], which one man had acquired through the course of his diplomatic career, while the other through the course of his military career.\" Lord Eliot was described as \"a person of graceful demeanor, of gentle and elegant proportions, thirty-four years old, and of modest dress, without any adornment. Colonel Gurwood accompanied him as secretary, and wore a uniform.\"\n\nLord Eliot arrived on April 5, 1835 at Bayonne, and got in touch with Francisco Espoz y Mina, commanding general of the Isabeline forces and based at Pamplona. Lord Eliot informed Espoz y Mina that he wished to communicate also with Don Carlos, and requested that Isabeline forces not stop him from doing so. Espoz y Mina had a British observer for the Isabeline army, a man named Wilde, escort Eliot and Gurwood across the border into Spain. On the way to escort the two men, Wilde met with Zumalacárregui and had dinner with the Carlist general on April 20, 1835 at Eulate. This gave Wilde an opportunity to tell Zumalacárregui about Eliot and Gurwood and their mission. \n\nEliot and Gurwood arrived at Segura on April 20, 1835 and met with Don Carlos. Don Carlos sent them to the quarters of Zumalacárregui, who would negotiate the convention. Eliot and Gurwood left Segura on April 23 and reached Alsasua; they were escorted by Colonel Serradilla.\n\nMeanwhile, the battle of Artaza (April 20–22, 1835) had occurred, resulting in the defeat of the Isabeline troops under Gerónimo Valdés, who took refuge at Estella. \n\nZumalacárregui stationed himself at the valley of Berrueza (\"valle de la Berrueza\") and met with Lord Eliot there. Zumalacárregui agreed fairly quickly to the accord. The agreement was signed by Zumalacárregui on April 24 at Asarta; this act thereby spared the lives of 27 Isabeline prisoners who were about to be executed. \n\nLord Eliot wished to have an autograph of Zumalacárregui; the Carlist general, meanwhile, wrote that \"at Asarta, located in the valley of Berrueza, celebrated for the various battles that have occurred there during this century, I had the honor to receive Lord Eliot on April 25, 1835, Lord Eliot - Tomás de Zumalacárregui.\" As a gift, Lord Eliot gave Zumalacárregui a telescope that Wellington had used during the War of Spanish Independence; the telescope is conserved today at the Museo Militar in Madrid. \n\nThe British commissioners traveled with Zumalacárregui from Asarta to Estella in search of the Isabeline general Gerónimo Valdés, in charge of the operations in the north of Spain after the resignation of Espoz y Mina, to sign the agreement. On the way there, they stopped at a convent at Irache; Zumalacárregui reported that at Irache \"there were some very beautiful nuns who made an excellent chocolate.\" \n\nEliot did not find Valdés at Estella, but found him instead at Logroño. Valdés was not happy with the text that had been signed by Zumalacárregui, and made changes that he considered prudent. He signed the agreement at Logroño on April 27, 1835. A Carlist colonel who had accompanied the British commissioners to Logroño brought back the new text to Zumalacárregui, who signed the newly worded agreement on April 28, 1835 at Eulate.\n\nThe Convention contained the following nine stipulations:\n\n\nArticle Six specifically stated:\n\nThe treatment of prisoners of the First Carlist War was thus regulated. The positive effects were immediate. A soldier of the British Legion wrote that:\n\nCharles Frederick Henningsen, who had served with the Carlists, dedicated his book, \"Twelve Months' Campaign with Zumalacárregui\", to Lord Eliot, whom he described as \"one of the very few who have in any way interfered in the civil strife now desolating Spain, whose name will not be a curse to her people, but on whose head the blessings of all ranks of Spaniards will be showered.\" \n\nHowever, though “it was mutually agreed upon to treat the prisoners taken on either side according to the ordinary rules of war, a few months only elapsed before similar barbarities were practiced with all their former remorselessness.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3743670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3743670", "title": "Mahoney tables", "text": "Mahoney tables\n\nThe Mahoney tables are a set of reference tables used in architecture, used as a guide to climate-appropriate design. They are named after architect Carl Mahoney, who worked on them together with John Martin Evans, and Otto Königsberger. They were first published in 1971 by the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.\n\nThe tables use readily available climate data and simple calculations to give design guidelines, in a manner similar to a spreadsheet, as opposed to detailed thermal analysis or simulation. There are six tables; four are used for entering climatic data, for comparison with the requirements for thermal comfort; and two for reading off appropriate design criteria. A rough outline of the table usage is:\n\n"}
{"id": "14302097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14302097", "title": "Merchant Shipping Act 1988", "text": "Merchant Shipping Act 1988\n\nThe Merchant Shipping Act 1988 c.12 was an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom. It aimed to prevent foreign fishing fleets from fishing in British territorial waters. In the Factortame case, its provisions in Parts I and II, Registration of British Ships, were disapplied by the House of Lords when they were found to conflict with European Community law and the Common Fisheries Policy. Part II dealt only with fishing vessels and was found to be repugnant by the European Court of Justice. The subsequent definition of British Ships is found in the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19428270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19428270", "title": "Payne v. Tennessee", "text": "Payne v. Tennessee\n\nPayne v. Tennessee, 501 U.S. 808 (1991), was a United States Supreme Court case which held that testimony in the form of a victim impact statement is admissible during the sentencing phase of a trial and, in death penalty cases, does not violate the Cruel and Unusual Punishment Clause of the Eighth Amendment. \"Payne\" narrowed two of the Courts' precedents: \"Booth v. Maryland\" (1987) and \"South Carolina v. Gathers\" (1989).\n\nPervis Tyrone Payne was the defendant in this trial prosecuted in Tennessee. On Saturday, June 27, 1987, he attempted to rape an acquaintance of his, Charisse Christopher, and finally he murdered her and her two-year-old daughter, Lacie. Neighbors heard noises and yelling, and called the police. Upon arriving, a police officer \"immediately encountered Payne who was leaving the apartment building, so covered in blood that he appeared to be 'sweating blood'\".\n\nThe police found \"a horrifying scene.\" Forty-two stab wounds were on Charisse's body, and Lacie and Nicholas, Charisse's son, had suffered stab wounds as well. Payne fled to his girlfriend's house, and discarded his clothes, which were soaked in blood. Meanwhile, Nicholas Christopher held in his intestines while the emergency medical technicians transported him to the emergency room. There was significant physical evidence implicating the defendant: Payne's fingerprints on cans of malt liquor, the victims' blood soaked into his clothes, and his property left at the scene of the crime.\n\nDozens of witnesses, including the police, friends, the neighbors, and experts, testified at the trial. The evidence that he perpetrated the attacks was \"overwhelming,\" according to Chief Justice Rehnquist. Payne denied the charges, claiming he came upon the bloody victims. The district attorney stressed, in his closing arguments, the senselessness of the killings, the violence displayed by the defendant, and the innocence of the victims. The jury convicted him of two counts of first-degree murder and two counts of attempted murder and a related charge.\n\nAt the sentencing phase, the judge allowed both the public defender to adduce mitigating testimony from the defendant's friends and family, and the district attorney (DA) to introduce evidence from the grandmother/mother of the victims. Payne appealed to the Tennessee Supreme Court, and then asked for a \"writ of certiorari\" from the United States Supreme Court. \"Certiorari\" was granted, with the Court noting that it would have to reconsider its past precedent. The case was argued on April 24, 1991 and decided on June 27, 1991.\n\nThe Court held that testimony on the form of a victim impact statement was admissible and constitutional in death penalty cases, thus expressly overruling two prior cases, \"Booth v. Maryland\" (1987) and \"South Carolina v. Gathers\" (1989).\n\nWriting for the Court, Chief Justice Rehnquist provided a number of reasons for the decision:\n\nJustices Stevens and Marshall wrote dissenting opinions, with Justice Blackmun joining each of them.\n\n\"Payne\" has had a significant, ongoing impact in victim's rights, criminology, and the lives of the parties involved.\n\nThe case allowed victim impact statements in U.S. courts, and the overwhelming majority of states now allow such use in the sentencing phase of trials, and was a significant development in the victims' rights movement. One scholar recently wrote:\nAnother scholar calls the verdict in \"Payne\" an example of \"symbolic violence.\" It was pointed out that:\nThe case was one in a line of cases that showed how the Rehnquist Court shifted to the conservative or \"right\" on criminal cases. The case is cited by at least one major college text book as a \"capstone case.\"\n\nPayne's execution was stayed in April 2007, and after protracted litigation, again scheduled in December 2007, and stayed again that month. He remains on death row as of June 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40296233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40296233", "title": "Prince Luarsab of Kartli", "text": "Prince Luarsab of Kartli\n\nLuarsab (, died 1652) was a member of the Bagrationi dynasty of Kartli, a great-grandson of King Luarsab I and relative of the childless King Rostom, who adopted him and made him heir apparent in 1639. Luarsab also married Rostom's niece by whom he had a son. Luarsab was killed while on a hunt. A homicide was immediately suspected. The suspect was tried by single combat and wounded, but acquitted by virtue of being a victor in the duel.\n\nLuarsab was a son of Prince Teimuraz-Mirza of Kartli ( 1600) and his wife, an anonymous daughter of Prince David Bagration-Davitishvili. He had a brother, Vakhtang (Rostom-Mirza; died 1655). He was a scion of all three royal branches of the Bagrationi dynasty; through his father, Luarsab was a great-grandson of King Luarsab I of Kartli and, through his mother, he descended from the Kakhetian and Imeretian royal families. The 18th-century Georgian chronicler Prince Vakhushti erroneously identifies Luarsab as \"son of Vakhtang, son of King Simon\", who was Luarsab I's son. This genealogy has been accepted by some modern scholars such as Cyril Toumanoff.\n\nLuarsab was Muslim, living in Isfahan, the capital of the Iranian Safavids. In 1639, he was adopted and designated as heir apparent to the throne of Kartli by his father’s first cousin, the seasoned king Rostom, who had no children of his own. With the shah's approval, Luarsab was brought in Kartli, but the local nobility resented yet another Persian-educated Bagratid. Luarsab was mortally wounded by a bullet while on a hunt in the Karaia grove and died in the presence of the mourning Rostom. The prince's remains were interred at Ardabil.\n\nPrince Luarsab was married to Tamar, daughter of Prince Adam-Sultan Andronikashvili, member of the shah's elite \"ghulam\" guard, by an anonymous princess, half-sister of King Rostom. Although Prince Vakhushti claims that with Luarsab's death \"the line of the great king Luarsab became extinct\", the prince had a son, Giorgi (fl. 1652) and a grandson, Khosro (fl. 1700).\n\nRostom suspected his heir's death was not an accident and requested an inquiry from Isfahan, but nothing came of this as the shah's government was preoccupied with the war in Kandahar. In the meantime, Prince Shiosh Baratashvili denounced Prince Baindur Tumanishvili as a possible murderer and had him publicly tried by single combat in Tbilisi. Tumanishvili was wounded, but won the duel and was thus acquitted. Baratashvili, also wounded and defeated, was cast in prison by Rostom, but was later pardoned and, the 18th-century Georgian \"Paris Chronicle\" says, Prince Luarsab \"remained unavenged\".\n\nAfter the loss of his heir, Rostom intended to adopt the late Prince Luarsab's brother Vakhtang and, to the chagrin of many Georgians, give him Luarsab's widow in marriage. Vakhtang, serving to the shah as a prefect of Qazvin and having the example of his brother before him, was reluctant. Arriving in Isfahan in 1655, Rostom's envoy, Bakhuta, Prince of Mukhrani, found Prince Vakhtang already dead of illness. Within three years, the Prince of Mukhrani would become Rostom's new choice as heir apparent and would succeed him on the throne of Kartli as Vakhtang V.\n"}
{"id": "44508353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44508353", "title": "Punch (2014 TV series)", "text": "Punch (2014 TV series)\n\nPunch () is a 2014–2015 South Korean television series starring Kim Rae-won, Kim Ah-joong, Cho Jae-hyun, Seo Ji-hye and On Joo-wan. It aired on SBS from 15 December 2014 to 17 February 2015 on Mondays and Tuesdays at 21:55 for 19 episodes.\n\n\"Punch\" is a record of the last six months of Park Jung-hwan's life. He is the chief of the anti-corruption investigation team for the Supreme Prosecutors' Office. To get to his position, Jung-hwan has made compromises to achieve what he thought of as the greater good, though it meant losing some of his soul in the process. But when he gets diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor and told that he only has six months left to live, it makes Jung-hwan reexamine his life choices. He decides to pursue justice whatever the cost, even if it means sacrificing his life. This is his last attempt to make things right, one final \"punch\" against the crooked world. And his main goal is bringing down his boss Prosecutor General Lee Tae-joon, whose friendly public face masks his unscrupulous morals and rampant corruption.\n\nHelping Jung-hwan in his quest is his ex-wife, Shin Ha-kyung. Ha-kyung is an idealistic prosecutor for the Seoul District, and chose her profession over having a lucrative law career. She divorced Jung-hwan because he was obsessed with ambition and never had time for her and their young daughter, Ye-rin. But that doesn't mean she doesn't still care for him, though her concern is mixed with resentment.\n\n\n\nIn the tables below, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.\nIt aired on ONE TV ASIA in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia premiering on 12 January 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "27705822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27705822", "title": "Putative father registry", "text": "Putative father registry\n\nIn the United States, the putative father registry is a state level legal option for unmarried men to document through a notary public any woman they engage with in intercourse, for the purpose of retaining parental rights for any child they may father.\n\nIn the United States, putative fathers will be notified when actions to terminate their parental rights as part of adoption proceedings are filed for a child they may have fathered and registered for. \nNon marital fathers are not guaranteed notice of an adoption or any rights in contesting the decision by the mother, nor are they guaranteed the ability to adopt or gain custody of the child. Typically, the father is only guaranteed notification, and the right to appear in court to testify about their child's best interests where he has registered timely. Registering timely with a state’s putative father registry guarantees notice. Timely legal establishment of paternity typically guarantees notice and an opportunity to be heard and may confer rights to consent or withhold consent to adoption. Prenatal support of the mother and fetus assures recognition of parental rights in 34 states.\n\nThere is no federal law in place regulating putative father registries. \nAmong all signatory countries only the United States refuses to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child and registries are not regulated under the U.N. Charter. Currently 33 states in the U.S. have putative father registries. The number of children adopted without consent or notice to the biological father under the registry program started in the 1970s is unknown.\n\nState putative father registries are intended to protect the non marital father from fraud by providing him with legal notice of a planned adoption of a child, provided he registers within a limited time-frame, usually any time prior to the birth or from 1 to 31 days after a birth. \nLack of knowledge of the pregnancy or birth is not an acceptable reason for failure to file; fraud by the birth mother typically does extend the father’s time to register.\n\nSome states require a putative father to file with multiple states, i.e. with the state possible conception might have occurred, state of residence (if different) and possible states the female might visit, \nor relocate to after the possible conception date that also have putative father registries. \nTo be valid at least one state requires a parent or guardian of the declarant to also sign when a minor under the age of 18 is documenting intercourse with a putative father registry.\n\n17 states (Alaska, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey, North Carolina, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Washington, West Virginia), as well as American Samoa, District of Columbia, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, do not have putative father registries.\n\nPutative father registries are not always called such by individual states. Other names for registries include:\n\n\n\n\"20 states with a putative father registry and registration forms publicly posted online:\"\n\n\n\"13 states with a putative registry and no registration forms publicly posted online:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165298", "title": "Recommendation (European Union)", "text": "Recommendation (European Union)\n\nA recommendation in the European Union, according to Article 288 of the [Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union] (formerly Article 249 TEC), is one of two kinds of non-legal binding acts cited in the Treaty of Rome.\n\nRecommendations are without legal force but are negotiated and voted on according to the appropriate procedure. Recommendations differ from regulations, directives and decisions, in that they are not binding for Member States. Though without legal force, they do have a political weight. The Recommendation is an instrument of indirect action aiming at preparation of legislation in Member States, differing from the Directive only by the absence of obligatory power.\n\nAccording to the terms of the Treaty on European Union \"In order to ensure the proper functioning and development of the common market, the Commission (…) formulate recommendations or deliver opinions on matters dealt with in this Treaty, if it expressively so provides or if the Commission considers it necessary.\"\n\nConcretely, recommendations can be used by the Commission to raze barriers of competition caused by the establishment or the modification of internal norms of a Member State. If a country does not conform to a recommendation, the Commission cannot propose the adoption of a Directive aimed at other Member Countries, in order to elide this distortion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "644314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=644314", "title": "Robin Gross", "text": "Robin Gross\n\nRobin Gross is founder and Executive Director of IP Justice, an international civil liberties organization that promotes balanced intellectual property law and defends freedom of expression. \n\nRobin Gross has represented the Non-Commercial Users Constituency (NCUC) on the ICANN GNSO Policy Council since 2005, and she is a member of the Advisory Group to the United Nations Internet Governance Forum (IGF).\n\nRobin Gross also runs a boutique law firm Imagine Law in San Francisco that handles entertainment, intellectual property, and cyberspace legal issues of a transactional nature \n\nIn 2005, Robin Gross taught international copyright law at Santa Clara University School of Law, where she served on SCU's High Technology Legal Advisory Board from 2004-2006. \n\nRobin Gross began her legal career as the first intellectual property (IP) attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation in 1999.\n\nShe launched EFF's work on intellectual property issues and was the director of its Campaign for Audiovisual Free Expression. She defended in court 2600 Magazine, Norwegian Jon Johansen, and other people that published the DeCSS code, challenging the anti-circumvention provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) as unconstitutional. She led the legal team who eventually won in the California Supreme Court upholding the right of Web publishers to post DeCSS against bogus trade secret claims.\n\nWhile at EFF, she defended Streamcast (maker of Morpheus P2P software) in a precedent setting case over the legality of P2P file-sharing software. In another DMCA case, she defended Princeton scientists' right to publish technical information describing the weaknesses in the recording industry's technology to control digital music. She successfully represented ReplayTV owners (including the founder of Craigslist) against Hollywood's claims that their use of digital VCRs was illegal.\n\nGross and IP Justice are active at the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and participate in meetings related to the \"Development Agenda\". In July 2005, she organized a campaign of over 138 international public interest NGOs to support the proposal for a \"Development Agenda\" at WIPO. IP Justice is also active on issues regarding WIPO's proposed Broadcasting (& Webcasting) Treaty.\n\nIn 2004, she organized an international campaign of over 50 civil liberties groups to reform the European Union's Intellectual property Rights Enforcement Directive. The CODE Campaign was successful in removing the directive's ban on technical devices that bypass IP holders' restrictions, and got the criminal provisions deleted from the final directive.\n\nAt the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in Geneva in 2003, she gave a keynote speech at the World Forum on Communications Rights and argued that in an information society, communication rights are human rights.\n\nLater in 2004 she went to Chile where she advised Latin American policy makers on how to implement the US-Chile Free Trade Agreement's IP chapter as harmlessly as possible and also went to Geneva to attend meetings to reform WIPO.\n\nAt WSIS in Tunis in 2005, she addressed the WSIS plenary and called for reform of over-zealous intellectual property rights laws. She also chaired two panel discussions on the topics of the \"World Intellectual Property Organization\" and \"P2P and Digital Rights\".\n\nShe has been active against the IP Chapter of the Free Trade Area of the Americas Treaty, and WIPO's proposed Broadcasting Treaty and is also engaged in the ICANN Non-Commercial User's Constituency.\n\nIn 2004, Managing Intellectual Property Magazine named Robin Gross one of the \"Top 100 Most Influential People in Intellectual Property in the World\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12935867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12935867", "title": "Spray foam", "text": "Spray foam\n\nSpray foam is a chemical product created by two materials, isocyanate and polyol resin, which react when mixed with each other and expand up to 30-60 times its liquid volume after it is sprayed in place. This expansion makes it useful as a specialty packing material which forms to the shape of the product being packaged and produces a high thermal insulating value with virtually no air infiltration.\n\nOtto Bayer (1902-1982) is credited with the invention of polyurethane in 1937. He succeeded in synthesizing polyurethane foam by exploring his basic idea that mixing small volumes of chemical substances could create dry foam materials.\n\nPolyurethane was further developed for different applications, ranging from shoe soles and cushions to industrial uses. In the 1940s rigid foam was applied to airplanes, and in 1979 polyurethane began being used as building insulation.\n\nR-value is the term given to thermal resistance to heat flow. The higher the R-value of an insulation product, the more effective the insulation properties. Spray polyurethane foam comes in a range of densities and cel structure. Low density foams are referred to as Open Cel SPF while higher density foams are referred to as Closed Cel foam. 1.8-2 pound polyurethane foam has the highest R-value of readily available spray foam insulation used in homes and buildings.\n\nPolyurethane is a closed-cell foam insulation material that initially contains a low-conductivity gas in its cells. As a result of the high thermal resistance of the gas, spray polyurethane insulation typically has an initial R-value around R-3.4 to R-6.7 per inch. In comparison, blown fiberglass typically has an R-Value of only R-3 to R-4 per inch.\n\nFoam insulation blocks all three forms of heat transfer:\n\n\n\n\nSpray foam is a very specialized packing material, often required for use in shipping valuable fragile items. Engineered packaging principles are designed to protect sculptures, vases, large fossils, lamp bases, busts, computers, furniture, chandeliers and other objects of unusual shape. By virtue of the liquid foam expanding by up to 30-60 times the volume of its liquid state, it efficiently protects almost any size, form and weight.\n\nThe custom fit of the molds, top and bottom, securely and uniformly cushions the object. There are many types of alternative materials that can be used to handle more specific needs.\n\nSpray foam insulation or spray polyurethane foam (SPF) is an alternative to traditional building insulation such as fiberglass. A two-component mixture composed of isocyanate and polyol resin comes together at the tip of a gun, and forms an expanding foam that is sprayed onto roof tiles, concrete slabs, into wall cavities, or through holes drilled in into a cavity of a finished wall.\n\n\"Spray foam\" is also an informal term used to refer to various plastic foam materials that are used in building construction to provide thermal insulation and minimize air infiltration. Polyurethane and polyisocyanurate are two types of foam used in this application.\n\nSpray polyurethane foam (SPF) insulation can be categorized into two different types: light-density open-cell spray foam insulation and medium-density closed-cell spray foam insulation. Both types of SPF are thermoset cellular plastics comprising millions of small cells.\n\nOpen cell insulation can be crushed in your hand and has a lower insulation value. Closed cell is rigid to the touch and each air cell is completely sealed. While closed cell foam has a higher R-value, it is more costly to buy.\n\nMedium-Density Closed-Cell Spray Foam (ccSPF)\n\nMedium-density closed-cell foam insulation is often referred to as two pound (2 lb) foam. It is a rigid insulating material with a Long Term Thermal Resistance (LTTR) R-value that ranges between 5.1 - 6 per inch When the required minimum thickness of 50 mm is installed, ccSPF is both a vapour barrier and an air barrier.\n\nIn Canada, the National Building Code references two standards that apply to the manufacturing and installation of ccSPF: the CAN/ULC S705.1 Material Standard and the CAN/ULC S705.2 National Application Standard. The installation standard requires that all installers of ccSPF in Canada be licensed and carry a photo ID card.\n\nTypically the foam's natural colour is yellow, however in Canada all ccSPF that have CCMC listings are required to have a unique colour for field identification.\n\nLight-Density Open-Cell Spray Foam (ocSPF)\n\nLight-density open-cell SPF is commonly known as half-pound foam. It is a semi-rigid material with a sponge-like appearance that expands during installation and creates small, open cells that are filled with carbon dioxide. Due to its ability to expand during the application process, it fills cracks, crevices and voids and adheres to irregular surfaces or substrates to form an air sealing insulation.\n\nWhile the R value will vary, most ocSPF products have an R value of around 3.8 per inch. Unlike medium-density closed-cell SPF, ocSPF is not a vapour barrier. When installed at 5.5 inches or more, ocSPF does act as an air barrier. It is often used for interior walls because it provides sound reduction by blocking and absorbing air leakage. It is usually only recommended for indoor applications.\n\nA type of use quite familiar in South East Asian countries is applying the pu or pur foam by spraying it against the bottom of roof tiles under high pressure with a spray gun. A hard but flexible layer of rigid foam is then created and seals all the tiles to each other and to the steel structure.\n\nThis spraying method, especially very popular in Thailand, is used not only against heavy leaks but helps also as insulation against the enormous heat the roofs constantly face.\n\nThis tropic heat actually is the cause that the steel structure, which most roofs in that part of the world are built on, expands and contracts all the time. By doing so, the sun-battered steel structure causes the roof tiles to dislodge and slowly creates small openings between the roof tiles, through which rain water can run into, creating leaks that can cause much damage to plastered ceilings and electric wiring.\n\nPolyurethane Foam provides a complete, seamless building envelope, creating a more comfortable indoor environment for the life of your home.\n\nTo avoid the expense re-roofing a house that is simply suffering from nail fatigue, and to obtain optimum insulation, an 85mm layer of polyurethane foam can be sprayed onto the underside of the slates or tiles of a pitched roof. This stabilises and weatherproofs the roof by fixing the nails, battens and roofing felt. As the foam is a superior insulant, coupled with just 100mm of insulation at joist level, your roof will also meet the stringent thermal performance standards required for a new home. A typical roof can be insulated using the polyurethane treatment for around half the cost of re-roofing.\n\nThe insulation at eaves level will leave your loft area comfortable for use and free from condensation. By installing the insulation at rafter level, it keeps the loft void warmer and prevents condensation build-up, which can otherwise occur when increasing insulation at ceiling level. The warmer, drier, cleaner roof space eliminates the risk of pipes and tanks freezing.\n\nSome 150,000 properties have been treated with polyurethane foam insulation in the UK. There are systems which have British Board of Agreement approval for use in existing and new build applications and can show compliance to Building Regulations.\n\nThe Canadian National Building Code references the CAN/ULC S705.2 National Application Standard which must be followed during all installations of 2lb medium density closed cell polyurethane foam. Every installer must be licensed in order to spray foam and hold valid photo ID issued by their Quality Assurance Program (QAP) provider showing their license is in good standing. The largest QAP provider for spray foam installers and contractors in Canada is a non-profit organization called CUFCA.\n\nThe United States has adapted to using sprayfoam insulation and a new technology called Wall Injection to retrofit existing wall construction by drilling small holes between wall studs in the structures framing and filling the void with a less aggressive expanding water based foam. This allows existing home and business owners to conserve energy by creating a thermal envelope in their existing structure.\n\nSpray foam insulation, like other insulation, saves on energy costs and lowers utility bills. Studies by the US Department of Energy show that 40% of a home's energy is lost as the result of air infiltration through walls, windows and doorways. Buildings treated with spray foam insulation insulate as much as 50% better than traditional insulation products.\n\nInsulation properly deployed can be part of a system designed to protect against moisture, which provides the benefit of reducing the chance of harmful mold, mildew and rotting of wood.\n\nIn addition to building temperature and moisture control, spray foam insulation is often used to reduce noise. Foam insulation serves as a barrier to airborne sounds, and reduces airborne sound transfer through a building's roof, floor and walls compared an uninsulated structure.\n\nIn the United States, homes treated with spray foam insulation often qualify for state and federal tax deductions.\n\nInsulation of all types stops a good deal of energy loss. Some types including spray foams also seal air leaks. Insulation can also save energy in hot climates by reducing air conditioning use.\n\nMost closed-cell spray foam is now formed using hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) blowing agents that have high global warming potential, partially or completely offsetting the climate benefits of the energy savings they can offer . In the United States, HFCs are scheduled to be phased out by January, 2021. A few spray foam suppliers have started supplying spray foam blown with \nhydrofluoroolefin (HFO) blowing agents without this problem as of early 2017.\n\nSpray foam insulation is typically non-toxic only after it has cured. While curing spray foam emits a gas that causes blurred vision and trouble breathing. Using full face and respiratory protection while applying the product is recommended.\n\nIsocyanates are powerful irritants to the eyes and gastrointestinal as well as the respiratory tracts. Direct skin contact with isocyanates can also cause marked inflammation. Some people say that their eyes feel like they have sand in them at the onset of problems. Some break out in a rash on their arms, chest, and neck.\n\nOverexposure to isocyanates can sensitize workers, making them subject to asthma attacks if they are exposed again. Respiratory irritation may progress to a chemical bronchitis. Additional exposures can make the onset easier with less isocyanate necessary to start the attack.\nSporadic cases of hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP) have also been reported in workers exposed to isocyanates. The symptoms may seem like the flu, with fever, muscle aches, and headaches. Other symptoms may include a dry cough, chest tightness, and difficult breathing. Individuals with chronic HP often experience progressively more difficult breathing, fatigue, and weight loss. Individuals with acute HP typically develop symptoms 4–6 hours after exposure.\n\n"}
{"id": "1522207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1522207", "title": "Supreme People's Procuratorate", "text": "Supreme People's Procuratorate\n\nThe Supreme People's Procuratorate also translated as the Prosecutor General's Office () is the highest national level agency responsible for both prosecution and investigation in the People's Republic of China. Hong Kong and Macau, as special administrative regions, have their own separate legal systems, based on common law traditions and Portuguese legal traditions respectively, and are out of the jurisdiction of the SPP.\n\nThe office of the Procurator or Prosecutor General is influenced by similar institutions (public procurator) in both Japan and Socialist legal systems, and finds equivalence in most civil law systems, which often use an inquisitorial system. Its direct predecessor institution in China is the Procuratorial Office of the Supreme Court of the Republic of China, which in turn is descended from the Procuratorial Office of the Dali Yuan of the late Qing Dynasty.\n\nThe current Prosecutor-General of the People's Republic of China is Cao Jianming.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3289292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3289292", "title": "Tatsukichi Minobe", "text": "Tatsukichi Minobe\n\nHis wife was the daughter of Dairoku Kikuchi, and his son Ryokichi Minobe was governor of Tokyo (1967–1979).\n\nMinobe was born in Takasago city, Hyōgo prefecture to a doctor of Chinese medicine. He graduated from the law school of Tokyo Imperial University in 1897, where one of his mentors was future Privy Councilor Ichiki Kitokurō. He went to work for the Home Ministry, and was sent for further studies to Germany, France and the United Kingdom, returning to Japan in 1902 to take up a position as a professor at Tokyo Imperial University.\n\nIn 1912, Minobe published a work on constitutional interpretation, which came to be known as the “emperor organ theory”. Per Minobe, the “State”, or \"kokutai\" was supreme, and even the emperor was only an “organ of the State” as defined through the constitutional structure, rather than a sacred power beyond the state itself. Minobe used the metaphor of the head of the human body to describe the role of the emperor. This thesis was influenced by the work of German legal philosopher Georg Jellinek, whose work, \"Allgemeine Staatslehre\" (\"General Theory of the State\") was published in 1900, and also by the British concept of a constitutional monarchy. Minobe warned that the emperor’s right of supreme command over the military needed to be carefully limited by the Diet of Japan if Japan were not to end up with a dual government in which the military would become completely independent and above the rule of law and unaccountable to civilian authority.\n\nFrom 1924 to 1927, Minobe was the Director of the Faculty of Law at Tokyo Imperial University. From 1911 for 34 years, he was also a counselor in the Bureau of Legislation where he participated in the enactment of several laws. He entered the House of Peers by appointment in 1932.\n\nMinobe’s interpretation of the constitution was generally accepted by bureaucrats and even imperial household until the 1930s, although it had been challenged from the beginning by imperial absolutists such as Yatsuka Hozumi and Shinkichi Uesugi, who held that the emperor was, by definition, the personification of the State itself, and therefore politically unaccountable for his actions, however arbitrary, as defined in Article 3 the Meiji Constitution. \n\nIn the increasingly militant environment of the 1930s, Minobe’s liberal interpretation of the role of the emperor came under attack from military officers and ultranationalists increasingly disillusioned by liberal democracy and corruption in government, which they felt could only be addressed through a Shōwa Restoration in which the emperor would take personal totalitarian control. On February 18, 1935, Baron Takeo Kikuchi, a retired general and member of the House of Peers, launched a public campaign to demand that Prime Minister Keisuke Okada ban Minobe’s works, which he termed to be “traitorous thoughts”. Minobe addressed the Diet of Japan a week later in his own defense, while right-wing groups and \"Kōdōha\" officers held a demonstration in downtown Tokyo denouncing him. In early March, Major General Genkuro Eto charged in the lower house of the Diet of Japan that Minobe’s books, specifically \"Kenpo Satsuyo\" (Compendium of the Constitution) and \"Tsuiho kenpo seigi\" (Additional Commentaries on the Constitution) were works of lese-majeste, and that Minobe should be arrested. Bowing to severe political pressure, Okada asked Minobe to resign from his posts later that month, banned some of his works, and initiated a government-sponsored campaign to discredit his works in favor of the tenets supporting the concept of the divine right of the emperor, which quickly merged with emperor worship and national chauvinism.\n\nFollowing the surrender of Japan after World War II, Minobe was active as an advisor in the creation of the post-war Constitution of Japan, as well as an advisor to the Privy Council. He died in 1948.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26658741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26658741", "title": "Treaty of Drohiczyn", "text": "Treaty of Drohiczyn\n\nThe Treaty of Drohiczyn was concluded on 14 January 1581, during the Livonian War, between the city of Riga and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The former Free imperial city Riga was added to Polish-Lithuanian Livonia. Its freedoms and privileges were in part confirmed in the \"Corpus Privilegiorum Stephanorum\", but also limited. One of its burgomasters was to be appointed \"Burggraf\", the Polish-Lithuanian official in town. Changes to the city's statutes required Royal approval. The Augsburg Confession was tolerated, but the city was deprived of the means to veto Royal interventions in its ecclesiastical affairs.\n"}
{"id": "3317943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3317943", "title": "Treaty of Titalia", "text": "Treaty of Titalia\n\nThe Treaty of Titalia was signed between the Chogyal (monarch) of Kingdom of Sikkim and the British East India Company (EIC). The treaty, which was negotiated by Captain Barre Latter in February 1817, guaranteed security of Sikkim by the British and returned Sikkimese land annexed by the Nepalese over the centuries. It followed the Anglo-Nepalese War, 1814-1816. In return, the British were given trading rights and rights of passage up to the Tibet frontier. The treaty was signed at Titalia, now known as Tetulia Upazila, in the Rangpur District of present-day Bangladesh. In the Gazette of Sikkim, 1894 by H.H. Risley, it was written that \"by the Treaty of Titalia, British India has assumed the position of Lord's paramount of Sikkim and a title to exercise a predominant influence in that State has remained undisputed.\"\n\nSigned by Captain Barre Latter as agent for the EIC and three Sikkimese officials, Nazir Chaina Tenjin, Macha Teinbah and Lama Duchim Longadoo, the primary purpose of the treaty under Article 1 was to return land previously seized by the Gorkha Kingdom of Nepal to Sikkim. This land, lying to the east of the Mechi River and the west of the Teesta River had been ceded to the EIC by the Gorkhas under the 1816 Treaty of Sugauli following the Anglo-Nepalese War of 1814-16.\n\nIn exchange, the Sikkimese Chogyal agreed to abstain from aggression towards the Gorkhas and to allow the British to mediate any dispute with its neighbours. Further articles pledged military support to the British, that absconders from British justice, whether criminal or civil, would be arrested in Sikkim and finally that all EIC company goods shipped through Sikkim would thereafter be free from duty.\n\nThe treaty effectively transformed Sikkim into a channel for Anglo-Chinese diplomacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10058621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10058621", "title": "United Cigar Stores", "text": "United Cigar Stores\n\nUnited Cigar Stores was a chain of cigar stores in the United States that in its first quarter-century grew to nearly 3,000 shops. It eventually became part of the corporation that bought Marvel Comics and its parent company Magazine Management from their founder in 1968.\n\nBrothers Charles A. Whelan and George J. Whelan founded a tobacco wholesale firm in Syracuse, New York, in 1901, eventually turning to retail. By 1926, the chain had nearly 3,000 stores. Though initially specializing in cigars, it eventually sold many other items, such as Mickey Mouse watches and shoe trees. The chain represented the interests of the Consolidated Tobacco Company, the tobacco trust that controlled the American Tobacco Company and others. In September 1903 a settlement was reached with the chain's competitors and all competition ended.\n\nIn August 1929, the chain and the affiliated Whelan Drug chain, founded by two of Charles' Whelan's sons, was sold to brothers George Kenan and Frederick Kenan Morrow. The company also was involved in real estate. As the Great Depression deepened, the real-estate subsidiary accumulated huge losses, so in September 1932 the holding company declared bankruptcy. Before its bankruptcy, it had 975 cigar stores and 219 drug stores, but most of its assets were in real estate. The chain recovered and had 1300 outlets in 1951.\n\nUnited Cigar Stores became part of United Cigar-Whelan Stores Corp., then United Whelan Corp. In 1962, it and three other companies merged to form Perfect Film & Chemical Corp., a film-processing and mail-order seller of drugs and vitamins. In 1968, it bought out publisher Martin Goodman, founder and owner of Magazine Management Company, the parent of Marvel Comics and other ventures. The Company renamed itself Cadence Industries Corporation in 1970, and was \nliquidated in 1986, selling its Marvel Entertainment Group to New World Pictures.\n\n"}
{"id": "3574810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3574810", "title": "Weather radio", "text": "Weather radio\n\nA weather radio is a specialized radio receiver that is designed to receive a public broadcast service, typically from government-owned radio stations, dedicated to airing weather reports on a continual basis, with the routine weather reports being interrupted by emergency weather reports whenever needed. Weather radios are typically equipped with a standby alerting function—if the radio is muted or tuned to another band and a severe weather bulletin is transmitted, it can automatically sound an alarm and/or switch to a pre-tuned weather channel for emergency weather information.\n\nWeather radio services may also broadcast non-weather-related emergency information, such as in the event of a natural disaster, a child abduction alert, or a terrorist attack. They generally broadcast in a pre-allocated very high frequency (VHF) range using FM. Usually a radio scanner or a dedicated weather radio receiver is needed for listening, although in some locations a weather radio broadcast may be re-transmitted on an AM or FM broadcast station, on terrestrial television stations, or local public, educational, and government access (PEG) cable TV channels or during weather or other emergencies.\n\nWeather radios are generally sold in two varieties: home (stationary) or portable use. Portable models commonly offer specialized features that make them more useful in case of an emergency. Some models use crank power, in addition to mains electricity and batteries, in case of a power outage.\nSmaller hand-held weather receivers generally do not support the SAME alert type encoding, but allow hikers and other explorers to listen to weather reports without packing a heavy and bulky base station radio. Some models have a built-in flashlight and can double as a cellphone charger. Some also serve as a more general emergency radio and may include multiband and two-way communication capability. \"Scanner\" radios designed to continuously monitor the VHF-FM public service band are already able to receive weather channels.Besides SAME alerting capability, modern weather radio receivers may include visual alerting elements (e.g., multicolored LED indicator lights) and allow for the use of external devices (e.g., pillow vibrators, bed shakers, strobe lights, and loud sirens, which attach via an accessory port) to alert those who are deaf or hearing impaired. \n\nBoth private and commercial seagoing vessels need accurate weather reports, in order to avoid storms that might damage or capsize the vessel, or make paying passengers uncomfortable. One such service is Navtex, which is a low-frequency facsimile radio service.\n\nThe United States, Canada, Mexico, and Bermuda operate their government weather radio stations on the same marine VHF radio band, using FM transmitters.\n\nWX1 through WX7 are the standard weather band channels, as assigned and implemented by NOAA, and are consistently used across U.S. Government agencies, including the Coast Guard.; WX8 and WX9 are Canadian Continuous marine broadcast channels. WX10 was formerly used by the NWS for coordination during power outages. All stations in United States, Canada, and Bermuda transmit a immediately before issuing a watch or warning, and this alone serves to activate the alarm feature on many older or basic alerting radios.\n\nAll U.S. and newer Canadian stations transmit WRSAME codes a few seconds before the 1050 Hz attention tone that allow more advanced receivers to respond only for certain warnings that carry a specific code for the local area. SAME codes are defined for counties, parishes, territories, or marine zones, and are set using preassigned six-digit FIPS county codes (in the U.S.) or CLC codes (in Canada). The SAME code protocol also includes an end-of-message (EOM) tone (three short data bursts of the binary 10101011 calibration then \"NNNN\", which some radios will use to mute the speaker after the alert broadcast has been completed.\n\nNOAA Weather Radio (NWR; also known as NOAA Weather Radio All Hazards) is an automated 24-hour network of about 133 radio stations in the United States that broadcast weather information directly from a nearby National Weather Service office. A complete broadcast cycle lasts about 3 to 8 minutes long, featuring weather forecasts and local observations, but is interrupted when severe weather advisories/warnings/watches are issued. It occasionally broadcasts other non-weather related events such as national security statements, natural disaster information, environmental and public safety statements (such as an AMBER Alert) sourced from the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) Emergency Alert System. Weather Underground discontinued live streams of NWR broadcasts in 2017.\n\nIn Canada, Weatheradio Canada transmits in both official languages (English and French) from 230 sites across Canada. Canadian broadcasts are also transmitted on travelers' information stations on AM and FM, especially near national parks.\n\nBermuda Radio (call-sign ZBR) is a weather radio station in Bermuda working under the Government of Bermuda.\n\nBermuda has only one station dedicated purely for weather, on 162.55 MHz from Hamilton, now operated by the Bermuda Weather Service with tropical weather forecasts from NOAA. It has a second station, however, for marine conditions and forecasts, ZBR (operated by the Bermuda Maritime Operations Centre), at 162.4 MHz.\n\nMexico has since launched its own weather radio system, SARMEX (Sistema De Alerta De Riesgos Mexicano, or Mexican Hazard Warning System) for coverage of its cities, which also implements the Mexican Seismic Warning System. Some Mexican alert radios also support activation by a two-tone alert for another type of risk warning.\n\nIn Germany, the Deutscher Wetterdienst broadcasts marine weather reports and weather warnings via long and short wave transmissions.\n\nThe weather radio band is part of the marine VHF radio band reserved for governmental services. However, most standard AM and FM broadcast radio stations provide some sort of private weather forecasting, either through relaying public-domain National Weather Service forecasts, partnering with a meteorologist from a local television station (or using a meteorologist hired by the station, common when a radio station is a sister station of their TV counterpart or has a news and forecast-sharing agreement), affiliating with a commercial weather service company, or (in the most brazen cases) copying a commercial service's public forecasts without payment or permission. (The first option is not available, or at least legally, in Canada, where Environment Canada's forecasts are under crown copyright.) \n\nAccuweather (through United Stations) and The Weather Channel (through Westwood One's NBC Radio Network) both operate large national weather radio networks through standard AM and FM stations. Brookstone licensed Accuweather's data service for their popular 5 Day Wireless Weather Watcher Cast Forecaster.\n\nMicrosoft's MSN Direct was a popular data service that included weather forecasting sent over US FM radio signals from 2004 to 2012. It was used by Microsoft Spot watches and Oregon Scientific clocks.\n\n\n"}
