{"id": "50669068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50669068", "title": "Anna Schepeler-Lette", "text": "Anna Schepeler-Lette\n\nAnna Schepeler-Lette (\"née\" Anna Lette; December 19, 1829 – 1897) was a German politician, feminist, women's social reformer, and pedagogue. She was the first director of Lette-Verein (Lette Society), a German educational institution for girls.\n\nSchepeler-Lette was born December 19, 1829, at Soldin, Germany (now Poland). She was the eldest daughter of Dr. Wilhelm Adolf Lette whom she accompanied, in 1848, to Frankfurt am Main, where he went as a member of the German National Parliament. In 1866, she joined her father in Berlin, and was initiated into the work of the Lette Society, to which she devoted all her time and energy. A reformer, Schepeler-Lette went to America in 1876, and visited the Centennial Exposition, and many of the principal cities of the US, where she carefully examined various institutions whose aims were similar to those of the Lette Society.\n\nIn 1872, Schepeler-Lette established the \"Association to promote the employment of the female sex\" in Berlin, later renamed Lette-Verein. Under her leadership, the association became a global model for women's vocational training. She founded schools that had no precedent at the time, nor was there a guarantee that government or industry would find the education provided as being acceptable. Under her leadership, the trade and vocational school was established in 1872, telegraph training in 1873, typesetting in 1875, and photography in 1890. Schepeler-Lette is also remembered for recognizing the need to train and retrain instructors.\n\nAfter her death in 1897, the artist Alexander Tondeur created a bust in her honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1781075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1781075", "title": "Applied behavior analysis", "text": "Applied behavior analysis\n\nApplied behavior analysis (ABA) is a scientific discipline concerned with applying techniques based upon the principles of learning to change behavior of social significance. It is the applied form of behavior analysis; the other two forms are radical behaviorism (or the philosophy of the science) and the experimental analysis of behavior (or basic experimental research).\n\nThe name \"applied behavior analysis\" has replaced behavior modification because the latter approach suggested attempting to change behavior without clarifying the relevant behavior-environment interactions. In contrast, ABA tries to change behavior by first assessing the functional relationship between a targeted behavior and the environment. Further, the approach often seeks to develop socially acceptable alternatives for aberrant behaviors.\n\nABA has been brought to bear on a wide range of areas and behavioral problems. Examples include such things as early intensive behavioral interventions for children with an autism spectrum disorder (ASD), research on the principles influencing criminal behavior, as well as HIV prevention, conservation of natural resources, education, gerontology, health and exercise, industrial safety, language acquisition, littering, medical procedures, parenting, psychotherapy, seatbelt use, severe mental disorders, sports, substance abuse, phobias, pediatric feeding disorders, and zoo management and care of animals.\n\nABA is an applied science devoted to developing procedures which will produce observable changes in behavior. It is to be distinguished from the experimental analysis of behavior, which focuses on basic experimental research, but it uses principles developed by such research, in particular operant conditioning and classical conditioning. Behavior analysis adopts the viewpoint of radical behaviorism, treating thoughts, emotions, and other covert activity as behavior that is subject to the same rules as overt responses. This represents a shift away from methodological behaviorism, which restricts behavior-change procedures to behaviors that are overt, and was the conceptual underpinning of behavior modification.\n\nBehavior analysts also emphasize that the science of behavior must be a \"natural\" science as opposed to a \"social\" science. As such, behavior analysts focus on the observable relationship of behavior with the environment, including antecedents and consequences, without resort to \"hypothetical constructs\".\n\nThe beginnings of ABA can be traced back to the research of Teodoro Ayllon and Jack Michael with their study \"The psychiatric nurse as a behavioral engineer\" (1959) that they submitted to the \"Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior\" (JEAB) as part of their doctoral dissertation at the University of Houston. The researchers were training the staff and nurses at a psychiatric hospital how to use a token economy based on the principles of operant conditioning and behavioral engineering—a synonym for ABA,\nalso then called behavior modification—with their patients, who were mostly adults with schizophrenia, but some were also mentally retarded children. This paper later led to the founding of the \"Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis\" (JABA), which publishes research in the application of behavior analysis to a wide array of socially relevant behavior, such as autism, pediatric feeding therapy, substance-use disorders, and classroom instruction with typically developing students.\n\nA group of faculty and researchers at the University of Washington, including Donald Baer, Sidney W. Bijou, Bill Hopkins, Jay Birnbrauer, Todd Risley, and Montrose Wolf, applied the principles of behavior analysis to instruct developmentally disabled children, provide behavior management strategies in juvenile detention centers, and organize employees who required proper structure and management in businesses, among other situations. In 1968, Baer, Bijou, Risley, Birnbrauer, Wolf, and James Sherman joined the Department of Human Development and Family Life at the University of Kansas, where they founded the \"Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis\".\n\nNotable graduate students from the University of Washington include Robert Wahler, James Sherman, and Ivar Lovaas. Lovaas established the UCLA Young Autism Project while teaching at the University of California, Los Angeles, and devoted nearly half a century to groundbreaking research and practice aimed at improving the lives of children with autism and their families. In 1965, Lovaas published a series of articles that outlined his system for coding observed behaviors, described a pioneering investigation of the antecedents and consequences that maintained a problem behavior, and relied upon the methods of errorless learning that was initially devised by Charles Ferster to teach nonverbal children to speak. Lovaas also described how to use social (secondary) reinforcers, teach children to imitate, and what interventions (including electric shocks) may be used to reduce aggression and life-threatening self-injury. \n\nIn 1987, Lovaas published the landmark study, \"Behavioral Treatment and Normal Educational and Intellectual Functioning in Young Autistic Children\". The experimental group in this study received up to 40-hours per week in a 1:1 teaching setting using errorless discrete trial training (DTT). The treatment is done at home with parents involved in every aspect of treatment, and the curriculum is highly individualized with a heavy emphasis on teaching eye contact and language. ABA principles are used to motivate learning and reduce non-desired behaviors. The outcome of this study indicated 47% of the experimental group (9/19) went on to lose their autism diagnosis and were described as indistinguishable from their typical adolescent peers. This included passing regular education without assistance, making and maintaining friends, and becoming self-sufficient as adults. These gains were maintained as reported in the 1993 study, \"Long-Term Outcome for Children With Autism Who Received Early Intensive Behavioral Treatment\". Lovaas’ work went on to be recognized by the US Surgeon General in 1999, and his research outcomes were replicated in university and private settings. The \"Lovaas Method\" went on to become known as early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI), or DTT for 30 to 40 hours per week. \n\nIn addition to being a major contributor of ABA, Lovaas taught now prominent behaviorists, such as Robert Koegel, Laura Schreibman, Tristram Smith, John McEachin, Ron Leaf, Doreen Granpeesheh, Jacquie Wynn, and over 20,000 UCLA students who took his \"Behavior Modification\" course during his 50 years of teaching. He even cofounded what is today the Autism Society of America (ASA), published hundreds of research articles and books, received state and national awards, and forced school districts to adopt evidenced based teaching programs. His work influenced how autism was treated, and improved the lives of parents and children stricken with the autism diagnosis worldwide.\n\nOver the years, \"behavior analysis\" gradually superseded \"behavior modification\"; that is, from simply trying to alter problematic behavior, behavior analysts sought to understand the function of that behavior, what antecedents promote and maintain it, and how it can be replaced by successful behavior. This analysis is based on careful initial assessment of a behavior's function and a testing of methods that produce changes in behavior.\n\nWhile ABA seems to be intrinsically linked to autism intervention, it is also used for applied animal behavior and clinical behavior analysis, in behavioral medicine, behavioral neuroscience, and criminology, to increase job safety and performance, counteract phobias, and improve classroom management.\n\nBaer, Wolf, and Risley's 1968 article is still used as the standard description of ABA. It lists the following the seven characteristics of ABA.\n\nIn 2005, Heward et al. suggested that the following five characteristics should be added:\n\nBehavior refers to the movement of some part of an organism that changes some aspect of the environment. Often, the term behavior refers to a class of responses that share physical dimensions or functions, and in that case a \"response\" is a single instance of that behavior. If a group of responses have the same function, this group may be called a response class. \"Repertoire\" refers to the various responses available to an individual; the term may refer to responses that are relevant to a particular situation, or it may refer to everything a person can do.\n\nOperant behavior is the so-called \"voluntary\" behavior that is sensitive to, or controlled by its consequences. Specifically, operant conditioning refers to the three-term contingency that uses stimulus control, in particular an antecedent contingency called the discriminative stimulus (SD) that influences the strengthening or weakening of behavior through such consequences as reinforcement or punishment. The term is used quite generally, from reaching for a candy bar, to turning up the heat to escape an aversive chill, to studying for an exam to get good grades.\n\nRespondent (classical) conditioning is based on innate stimulus-response relationships called reflexes. In his famous experiments with dogs, Pavlov usually used the salivary reflex, namely salivation (unconditioned response) following the taste of food (unconditioned stimulus). Pairing a neutral stimulus, for example a bell (conditioned stimulus) with food caused the bell to elicit salivation (conditioned response). Thus, in classical conditioning, the conditioned stimulus becomes a signal for a biologically significant consequence. Note that in respondent conditioning, unlike operant conditioning, the response does not \"produce\" a reinforcer or punisher (e.g. the dog does not get food \"because\" it salivates).\n\nThe environment is the entire constellation of stimuli in which an organism exists. This includes events both inside and outside of an organism, but only real physical events are included. A stimulus is an \"energy change that affects an organism through its receptor cells\".\n\nA stimulus can be described:\n\nReinforcement is the key element in operant conditioning and in most behavior change programs. It is the process by which behavior is strengthened. If a behavior is followed closely in time by a stimulus and this results in an increase in the future frequency of that behavior, then the stimulus is a positive reinforcer. If the removal of an event serves as a reinforcer, this is termed negative reinforcement. There are multiple schedules of reinforcement that affect the future probability of behavior.\n\nPunishment is a process by which a consequence immediately follows a behavior which decreases the future frequency of that behavior. As with reinforcement, a stimulus can be added (positive punishment) or removed (negative punishment). Broadly, there are three types of punishment: presentation of aversive stimuli (e.g., pain), response cost (removal of desirable stimuli as in monetary fines), and restriction of freedom (as in a 'time out'). Punishment in practice can often result in unwanted side effects. Some other potential unwanted effects include resentment over being punished, attempts to escape the punishment, expression of pain and negative emotions associated with it, and recognition by the punished individual between the punishment and the person delivering it.\n\nExtinction is the technical term to describe the procedure of withholding/discontinuing reinforcement of a previously reinforced behavior, resulting in the decrease of that behavior. The behavior is then set to be extinguished (Cooper et al.). Extinction procedures are often preferred over punishment procedures, as many punishment procedures are deemed unethical and in many states prohibited. Nonetheless, extinction procedures must be implemented with utmost care by professionals, as they are generally associated with extinction bursts. An extinction burst is the temporary increase in the frequency, intensity, and/or duration of the behavior targeted for extinction. Other characteristics of an extinction burst include an extinction-produced aggression—the occurrence of an emotional response to an extinction procedure often manifested as aggression; and b) extinction-induced response variability—the occurrence of novel behaviors that did not typically occur prior to the extinction procedure. These novel behaviors are a core component of shaping procedures.\n\nIn addition to a relation being made between behavior and its consequences, operant conditioning also establishes relations between antecedent conditions and behaviors. This differs from the S–R formulations (If-A-then-B), and replaces it with an AB-because-of-C formulation. In other words, the relation between a behavior (B) and its context (A) is because of consequences (C), more specifically, this relationship between AB because of C indicates that the relationship is established by prior consequences that have occurred in similar contexts. This antecedent–behavior–consequence contingency is termed the three-term contingency. A behavior which occurs more frequently in the presence of an antecedent condition than in its absence is called a discriminated operant. The antecedent stimulus is called a discriminative stimulus (S). The fact that the discriminated operant occurs only in the presence of the discriminative stimulus is an illustration of stimulus control. More recently behavior analysts have been focusing on conditions that occur prior to the circumstances for the current behavior of concern that increased the likelihood of the behavior occurring or not occurring. These conditions have been referred to variously as \"Setting Event\", \"Establishing Operations\", and \"Motivating Operations\" by various researchers in their publications.\n\nB.F. Skinner's classification system of behavior analysis has been applied to treatment of a host of communication disorders. Skinner's system includes:\n\nFor assessment of verbal behavior from Skinner's system see Assessment of Basic Language and Learning Skills.\n\nWhen measuring behavior, there are both dimensions of behavior and quantifiable measures of behavior. In applied behavior analysis, the quantifiable measures are a derivative of the dimensions. These dimensions are repeatability, temporal extent, and temporal locus.\n\nResponse classes occur repeatedly throughout time—i.e., how many times the behavior occurs.\n\nThis dimension indicates that each instance of behavior occupies some amount of time—i.e., how long the behavior occurs.\n\nEach instance of behavior occurs at a specific point in time—i.e., when the behavior occurs.\n\nDerivative measures are unrelated to specific dimensions:\n\nIn applied behavior analysis, all experiments should include the following:\n\nPrior to the seminal article on functional analytic methodology for aberrant behaviors, behaviorists used the behavioral technology available to them at the time. Instead of treating the function of the disruptive behavior, behavioral psychologists would instead \"pre-assume\" consequences to alter disruptive behaviors. For example, in the past to decrease self-injurious behavior in an individual, behaviorists may have delivered an aversive stimulus contingent on the response, or assume a reinforcer without identifying the reinforcer that would be most motivating to the client (Iwata, 1988). This type of intervention was successful to the individual, but it was not uncommon to see other variations of aberrant behavior begin to appear. When applied behavior analysts let clients choose from a wide array of reinforcers (often determined through data collection and reinforcement assessments) in the mid-1980s, reinforcement was shown to be more effective than punishment contingencies. In general, applied behavior analysis as a field favors reinforcement based interventions over aversive contingencies, but at the time the behavioral technology was not advanced enough and the individuals needing intervention had a right to an effective treatment (Van Houten et al., 1988). Nevertheless, not all behavioral therapies involved the use of aversives prior to the mid-1980s. Some behaviorists (for instance, B.F. Skinner) always preferred reinforcement and extinction contingencies over punishment even during that time.\n\nIn 1977, Edward Carr published a paper on potential hypotheses for the occurrence and maintenance of self-injurious behaviors. This paper laid out the initial groundwork for a functional analysis of aberrant behaviors. In the paper, Carr described five potential causes for self-injurious behaviors that included (1) positive social reinforcement contingent on the response, (2) negative reinforcement in the form of removal of an aversive stimulus contingent on the response, (3) the response produced stimuli possessed reinforcing qualities (automatic reinforcement), (4) the behavior was a byproduct of an underlying psychological condition, and (5) psychodynamic hypothesis in which the behavior was an attempt to reduce guilt. Throughout the paper, Carr cited recent research to support the first three hypotheses, and disprove the latter two hypotheses, but no formal experiment was conducted to determine the controlling variables of the problem behavior.\n\nIn 1982, Iwata and colleagues conducted the first experimental analysis of the maintaining variables for self-injurious behavior. In the paper, the researchers alternated between specific conditions to examine whether or not the behavior occurred under specific environmental conditions. Through direct manipulation of the environment, the researchers could accurately identify the controlling variables of the aberrant behavior, and provide interventions that targeted the functional relationship between the behavior and the environment. Since this seminal article was published, a wide range of research has been published in the area of functional analyses of aberrant behaviors. The methodology has since become the gold standard in assessment and treatment of aberrant behaviors.\n\nFunctional assessment of behavior provides hypotheses about the relationships between specific environmental events and behaviors. Decades of research have established that both desirable and undesirable behaviors are learned and maintained through interactions with the social and physical environment. Functional behavior assessments are used to identify controlling variables for challenging behaviors as the basis for intervention efforts designed to decrease the occurrence of these behaviors.\n\nBehavior serves two major functions for an individual: (1) to obtain desired events, or (2) to escape/avoid undesired events. Put another way, individuals engage in behavior to get something or to get out of something. When trying to identify the function of a behavior, it is often helpful to think, \"What purpose is this behavior serving the individual?\" Described below are the common functions of behavior.\n\n\"Access to attention (positive reinforcement: social)\":\nThe individual engages in the behavior to obtain attention from another person. For example, a child throws a toy because it characteristically results in mom's attention. (If this behavior results in mom looking at child and giving him lots of attention—even if she's saying \"NO\"—he will be more likely to engage in the same behavior in the future to get mom's attention.) Common forms of attention include, but are not limited to, hugs, kisses, reprimands, frowns, smiles, etc.\n\n\"Access to tangibles (positive reinforcement: tangible/activity)\":\nThe individual engages in the behavior to obtain a specific item or engage in a specific activity from another person. For example, a child hits mom because s/he wants the toy mom is holding. (If this behavior results in mom giving the child the toy, s/he will be more likely to engage in the same behavior in the future to get mom's attention.) Common forms of tangible items include, but are not limited to, food, toys, movies, video games, etc.\n\n\"Automatic positive reinforcement\":\nThe individual engages in the behavior because the response-produced stimulation possesses reinforcing characteristics. In other words, engaging in the behavior produces reinforcing stimulation unique to the specific context. For example, a child hits his/her eyes because it produces the specific stimulation of various colors and effects. Another example includes a child spinning a bowl on a table to produce the specific auditory stimulation unique to that object. Common forms of automatic stimulation include, but are not limited to, auditory stimulation, visual stimulation, endorphin release, etc.\n\n\"Escape/removal of attention\":\nThe individual engages in the behavior to escape aversive socially mediated attention. Put another way, social situations that are aversive to the child are removed contingent on the behavior occurring. For example, a child hits the teacher to avoid talking in front of the class. Common forms of aversive social situations include, but are not limited to, smiles, hugs, frowns, corrections, group settings, etc.\n\n\"Escape/removal of tasks or activities\":\nThe individual engages in the behavior to escape aversive tasks or demands. For example, when a child is told to take a bath he begins to cry, and his mother tells him he no longer has to take a bath. Another example includes a teacher telling a student to complete a set of worksheets, to which the student flips the desk and is sent to the principal's office. Being sent to the principal's office reinforced the behavior of flipping the desk because it allowed the child to escape the aversive activity of completing the worksheets. Common forms of aversive demands/activities include, but are not limited to, difficult tasks, changes in routines, unpredictability, etc.\n\n\"Automatic negative reinforcement\":\nThe individual engages in the behavior because it produces a decrease in aversive stimulation. Put another way, something aversive is occurring in some location on the organism's body, and engaging in the behavior decreases the level of discomfort. For example, a child bangs his head against the wall to decrease the pain experienced from a toothache. Another example includes a child scratching his arm to decrease the level of itchiness experienced from a bug bite. Common forms of aversive stimulation abated by engaging in specific behaviors include sinus pain, itching, hunger, etc.\n\nAs previously stated function refers to the effect the behavior produces on the environment. The actual form of the behavior is referred to the topography. Different behaviors may serve the same function, thus describing one limitation of treating behaviors based on form alone. For example, a child may scream, hit, and cry to obtain attention from his mother. What the behavior looks like often reveals little useful information about the conditions that account for it. However, identifying the conditions that account for a behavior, suggests what conditions need to be altered to change the behavior. Therefore, assessment of function of a behavior can yield useful information with respect to intervention strategies that are likely to be effective.\n\nFBA methods can be classified into three types:\n\nThis method uses structured interviews, checklists, rating scales, or questionnaires to obtain information from persons who are familiar with the person exhibiting the behavior to identify possible conditions or events in the natural environment that correlate with the problem behavior. They are referred to as \"indirect\" because they do not involve direct observation of the behavior, but rather they solicit information based on others' recollections of the behavior. This form of assessment typically yields the least reliable information about the function of behavior, but can provide insight as to possible functions of the behavior to be tested in the future, the form of the behaviors (e.g. screaming, hitting, etc.), and environments in which the behavior typically occurs (e.g. school, home, etc.). This type of assessment should be performed as the initial step of any functional behavior assessment to gather relevant information to complete more direct assessments.\n\nUnlike the indirect methods of FBAs, descriptive functional behavior assessment employs direct observation of behavior. These observations occur in the environment in which the behavior naturally occurs (e.g. school, home, etc.) therefore there is no direct manipulation of the environment.\nThe most common form of descriptive assessment involves recording the antecedents and consequences that naturally occur when the individual emits the behavior. This is referred to as ABC data collection, in which (A) represents the common antecedent, (B) represents the behavior of interest, and (C) represents the immediate consequences that occur following the behavior. ABC data collection is used to identify the naturally occurring consequences delivered in the environment in which the behavior occurs. ABC data collection can be conducted by a wide array of individuals who have received appropriate training on how to record the data.\nAnother form of descriptive FBA is called a scatterplot. In this assessment, staff record the time and setting in which the behavior of interest occurs over a series of days. The data are plotted on a visual scale to indicate whether there are any patterns in the behavior (for example, if the behavior occurs more frequently during math instruction than it does during lunchtime). Although this assessment does not indicate the consequences maintaining the behavior, it can be used to identify some of the antecedent conditions that typically precede the behavior of interest.\n\nA functional analysis is the most direct form of functional behavior assessment, in which specific antecedents and consequences are systematically manipulated to test their separate effects on the behavior of interest. Each manipulation of the antecedent and consequence in a particular situation is referred to a condition. In a functional analysis, conditions are typically alternated between quite rapidly independent of responding to test the different functions of behavior. When data paths are elevated above the control condition (described below) it can be said that there is a functional relation between that condition and the behavior of interest. Complexity, time restraints, and setting restraints, are a few limitations to this particular method. When deciding to use this method, it should be noted that there is a chance of high-risk behavior and the possibility of low-rate behaviors.\n\nBelow, common examples of experimental conditions are described.\nA standard functional analysis normally has four conditions (three test conditions and one control).\n\nIn this condition, the experimenter gives the individual moderately preferred items and instructs them to go play. After that initial instruction, the experimenter pretends to act busy and ignores all bids for attention from the individual. If the individual engages in the behavior of interest, the experimenter provides the individual with attention (commonly in the form of a reprimand). Behaviors that occur more frequently in this condition can be said to be attention maintained.\n\nIn this condition, the experimenter instructs the individual that it is time to work. After the initial instruction, the experimenter delivers a series of demands that the individual is typically required to complete (e.g. math problems, cleaning up, etc.). If the individual engages in the behavior of interest, the demand is removed and the child is allowed to take a break. Behaviors that occur more frequently in this condition can be said to be escape maintained.\n\nIn this condition, the child is left alone with a variety of items to engage with. If the child engages in the behavior of interest, no programmed consequences are delivered. Behaviors that occur more frequently in this condition can be said to be automatically maintained.\n\nIn this condition, the child is allowed to engage with a variety of items during the session. No demands are placed on the child throughout the duration of the session. The experimenter provides attention to the individual throughout the session on any behavior that is not the target behavior. If the target behavior occurs, the experimenter removes attention until the behavior has subsided. This session is meant to act as a control condition, meaning that the environment is enriched for the purpose of the behavior not occurring. Said another way, by meeting environmental needs for all possible functions, the individual is not likely to engage in the behavior of interest. This condition is used as a comparison to the other conditions. Any condition that is elevated to a large degree form the control condition, shows a higher degree experimental control indicating the functional relationship between the specific environmental conditions and the behavior of interest.\n\nFunctional behavior assessments are rarely limited to only one of the methods described above. The most common, and most preferred, method for identifying the function of behavior can be seen as a four-part processes.\n\nTask analysis is a process in which a task is analyzed into its component parts so that those parts can be taught through the use of chaining: forward chaining, backward chaining and total task presentation. Task analysis has been used in organizational behavior management, a behavior analytic approach to changing the behaviors of members of an organization (e.g., factories, offices, or hospitals). Behavioral scripts often emerge from a task analysis. Bergan conducted a task analysis of the behavioral consultation relationship and Thomas Kratochwill developed a training program based on teaching Bergan's skills. A similar approach was used for the development of microskills training for counselors. Ivey would later call this \"behaviorist\" phase a very productive one and the skills-based approach came to dominate counselor training during 1970–90. Task analysis was also used in determining the skills needed to access a career. In education, Englemann (1968) used task analysis as part of the methods to design the Direct Instruction curriculum.\n\nThe skill to be learned is broken down into small units for easy learning. For example, a person learning to brush teeth independently may start with learning to unscrew the toothpaste cap. Once they have learned this, the next step may be squeezing the tube, etc.\n\nFor problem behavior, chains can also be analyzed and the chain can be disrupted to prevent the problem behavior. Some behavior therapies, such as dialectical behavior therapy, make extensive use of behavior chain analysis.\n\nA prompt is a cue that is used to encourage a desired response from an individual. Prompts are often categorized into a prompt hierarchy from most intrusive to least intrusive, although there is some controversy about what is considered most intrusive, those that are physically intrusive or those that are hardest prompt to fade (e.g.,verbal). In order to minimize errors and ensure a high level of success during learning, prompts are given in a most-to-least sequence and faded systematically. During this process, prompts are faded quickly as possible so that the learner does not come to depend on them and eventually behaves appropriately without prompting.\n\nTypes of prompts\nPrompters might use any or all of the following to suggest the desired response:\n\nThis is not an exhaustive list of prompts; the nature, number, and order of prompts are chosen to be the most effective for a particular individual.\n\nThe overall goal is for an individual to eventually not need prompts. As an individual gains mastery of a skill at a particular prompt level, the prompt is faded to a less intrusive prompt. This ensures that the individual does not become overly dependent on a particular prompt when learning a new behavior or skill.\n\nThinning is often confused with fading. Fading refers to a prompt being removed, where thinning refers to an increase in the time or number of responses required between reinforcements. Periodic thinning that produces a 30% decrease in reinforcement has been suggested as an efficient way to thin. Schedule thinning is often an important and neglected issue in contingency management and token economy systems, especially when these are developed by unqualified practitioners (see professional practice of behavior analysis).\n\nGeneralization is the expansion of a student's performance ability beyond the initial conditions set for acquisition of a skill. Generalization can occur across people, places, and materials used for teaching. For example, once a skill is learned in one setting, with a particular instructor, and with specific materials, the skill is taught in more general settings with more variation from the initial acquisition phase. For example, if a student has successfully mastered learning colors at the table, the teacher may take the student around the house or his school and then \"generalize\" the skill in these more natural environments with other materials. Behavior analysts have spent considerable amount of time studying factors that lead to generalization.\n\nShaping involves gradually modifying the existing behavior into the desired behavior. If the student engages with a dog by hitting it, then he or she could have their behavior shaped by reinforcing interactions in which he or she touches the dog more gently. Over many interactions, successful shaping would replace the hitting behavior with patting or other gentler behavior. Shaping is based on a behavior analyst's thorough knowledge of operant conditioning principles and extinction. Recent efforts to teach shaping have used simulated computer tasks.\n\nOne teaching technique found to be effective with some students, particularly children, is the use of video modeling (the use of taped sequences as exemplars of behavior). It can be used by therapists to assist in the acquisition of both verbal and motor responses, in some cases for long chains of behavior.\n\nCritical to behavior analytic interventions is the concept of a systematic behavioral case formulation with a functional behavioral assessment or analysis at the core. This approach should apply a behavior analytic theory of change (see Behavioral change theories). This formulation should include a thorough functional assessment, a skills assessment, a sequential analysis (behavior chain analysis), an ecological assessment, a look at existing evidenced-based behavioral models for the problem behavior (such as Fordyce's model of chronic pain) and then a treatment plan based on how environmental factors influence behavior. Some argue that behavior analytic case formulation can be improved with an assessment of rules and rule-governed behavior. Some of the interventions that result from this type of conceptualization involve training specific communication skills to replace the problem behaviors as well as specific setting, antecedent, behavior, and consequence strategies.\n\nCounterconditioning includes covert and overt conditioning.\n\nABA-based techniques are often used to change behaviors associated with autism, so much so that ABA itself is often mistakenly considered to be synonymous with therapy for autism. ABA for autism may be limited by diagnostic severity and IQ. The most influential and widely cited review of the literature regarding efficacy of treatments for autism is the National Research Council's book \"Educating Children with Autism\" (2001) which concluded that ABA was the best research supported and most effective treatment for the main characteristics of autism. Some critics claimed that the NRC's report was an inside job by behavior analysts but there were no board certified behavior analysts on the panel (which did include physicians, speech pathologists, educators, psychologists, and others). Other criticisms raised include the small sample sizes used in the published research to date. Medications have not been proven to correct the core deficits of ASDs and are not the primary treatment. ABA is the primary treatment according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. Recent reviews of the efficacy of ABA-based techniques in autism include:\n\nA 2009 systematic review and meta-analysis by Spreckley and Boyd of four small-n 2000–2007 studies (involving a total of 76 children) came to different conclusions than the aforementioned reviews. Spreckley and Boyd reported that applied behavior intervention (ABI), another name for EIBI, did not significantly improve outcomes compared with standard care of preschool children with ASD in the areas of cognitive outcome, expressive language, receptive language, and adaptive behavior. In a letter to the editor, however, authors of the four studies meta-analyzed claimed that Spreckley and Boyd had misinterpreted one study comparing two forms of ABI with each other as a comparison of ABI with standard care, which erroneously decreased the observed efficacy of ABI. Furthermore, the four studies' authors raised the possibility that Spreckley and Boyd had excluded some other studies unnecessarily, and that including such studies could have led to a more favorable evaluation of ABI. Spreckley, Boyd, and the four studies' authors did agree that large multi-site randomized trials are needed to improve the understanding of ABA's efficacy in autism. Some initial, theoretical work has been initiated to use applied behavioral analysis (ABA) as a foundation for agent-mediated, AI-based instructions for children with autism spectrum disorder.\n\nA United States District Court Judge ruled withholding ABA from children (0–21) with autism causes irreparable harm, finding Elizabeth Dudek of Florida's Agency for Healthcare Administration's position suggesting ABA was experimental was arbitrary and capricious, ordering AHCA enjoined from withholding ABA. Thereafter, CMS ordered its guidance that all states to cover ABA via Head Start and Early Head Start EPSDT programs.\n\nFurther research is clearly required, specifically to include larger and thus more representative samples.\n\nConversely, various major figures within the autistic community have written biographies detailing harm caused by the provision of ABA. Several of these people have since been diagnosed with PTSD and depression. Less scholarly reviews were provided by Elizabeth Devita-Raeburn in \"The Atlantic\" magazine and by an ex-practitioner.\n\nControversy regarding ABA persists in the autism community. A 2017 study, based on a survey of 'post-traumatic stress symptoms' completed by individuals with presumed, self-reported diagnosis of ASD and their caregivers, found that 46% of the individuals who also reported receiving ABA treatment met the author's \"diagnostic threshold for PTSD\" via their survey score, versus 28% of respondents not reporting receipt of ABA treatment. Individuals reported as receiving ABA were 86% more likely on average (41% for adults, 130% for children) to meet the author's \"diagnostic threshold\". However, the 2017 study was heavily criticized by peer reviewers who noted, among other things, that her methods for recruiting participants were faulty, she did not use appropriate operative definitions for PTSS versus PTSD, and there was detected bias baked into the hypothesis of the study.\n\nApplied behavior analysts publish in many journals. Some examples of \"core\" behavior analytic journals are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40379780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40379780", "title": "Arab Regional Centre for World Heritage", "text": "Arab Regional Centre for World Heritage\n\nThe Arab Regional Centre for World Heritage (French: centre régional arabe pour le patrimoine mondial ; Arabic: المركز الإقليمي العربي للتراث العالمي) is a Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO. founded as an autonomous and independent Bahraini public institution in 2010.\n\nThe ARC-WH purpose is to reinforce the implementation of the World Heritage Convention in the Arab States region, by enhancing the knowledge of it, promoting the Operational Guidelines and the cooperating among the States Parties of the Arab States region.\n\nARC-WH is meant to respond to the provisions of the Global Strategy for a Representative, Balanced and Credible World Heritage List is also intended to assist the implementation of the Global Training Strategy for World Cultural and Natural Heritage (Helsinki, 2001).\n\nARC-WH has 18 member States: Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen.\n\nThe main objective of ARC-WH is to assist States Parties in the implementation of the World Heritage Convention in the Arab States region along three main major axes : information, assistance, logistical & financial.\n\nThe Arab Regional Centre for World Heritage was established by the Royal Decree issued on 16 December 2010, following the General Conference of UNESCO at its 35th session in 2009. The two legislative chambers ratified the agreement between UNESCO and the Government of Bahrain. The agreement following the decision of the General Conference (35th session)\nwas signed in February 2010 by the Director-General of UNESCO, Irina Bokova and the Culture Minister of Bahrain Sh. Mai Bint Mohammed Al Khalifa.\n\nAs of 23 December 2011, all formalities related to the Agreement were completed upon the receipt of the letter of enforcement by UNESCO. Following the entry into force of the Agreement, the first meeting of the Governing Board was held on 28 April 2012 for the approval of the internal regulations, recruit the founding team of the Centre and approve the first year work plan.\n\nARC-WH will organize its activities along three main axes:\n\n1. The provision of information relating to the World Heritage Convention and its application, including development and management of an Arabic language website, the translation and publication of relevant documents, and promotion of the establishment of new conservation programmes at universities, in all the Arab region States.\n\n2. The provision of assistance to States Parties in the region to improve their ability to implement the WH Convention (including understanding of WH policy, concepts, rules of procedure, preparation of tentative lists, preparation of nominations, monitoring of state of conservation, education programmes etc.) by facilitating organization of appropriate WH\ntraining at ARC-WH’s premises or anywhere else in the region, and responding to State Party requests for assistance.\n\n3. The provision of logistical and financial support for regional activities in support of the WH Convention including hosting of meetings, conferences, training workshops or exhibitions in the region; the identification of appropriate facilities and services (lecture rooms, equipment, competent translators, etc.) for planned meetings for the WH Centre and other international institutions in the region, and the raising of funds to support World Heritage activities in the region.\n\nARC-WH will meet its objectives in close coordination with existing international, regional and national agencies, initiatives\nand programmes concerned with World Heritage in the Arab States region including but not limited to:\n\n• international organizations such as ICCROM (International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property, and in particular, its ATHAR programme to “protect and promote the rich cultural heritage in the Arab region”; IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature); ICOMOS (International Council on Monuments and Sites)\n\n• regional organizations such as ALECSO (The Arab League Educational, Cultural and Scientific Organization), Tunisia; ROPME (Regional Organisation for the Protection of the Marine Environment – Kuwait; UNEP, and PERSGA (Regional Organization for the Conservation of the Environment of the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden-Jeddah);\n\n• national conservation agencies (the various Departments and Directorates of Antiquities in the region), and national conservation organisations such as CULTNAT (Centre for Documentation of Cultural and Natural Heritage), Egypt, affiliated with Bibliotheca Alexandrina and supported by the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology of Egypt), and CERKAS (Centre de Restauration et de Rehabilitation de zones atlasiques et sub-atlasiques), Morocco.\n\n"}
{"id": "24730001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24730001", "title": "Armenian Distance Learning Network", "text": "Armenian Distance Learning Network\n\nArmenian Distance Learning Network (ADLN) is the first Armenian e-learning project. The project was launched in early 2002 and was restructured and updated in January, 2006. ADLN courses are business based and target Armenian speaking users of the Internet. The project was designed as a contribution to the development of Armenian beginner entrepreneurs who wish to be involved in the growth of e-business in Armenia as well as the country’s general e-growth. The web-page language is Armenian; the system is based on a course management system - Moodle. \n\nThe e-project ADLN was the first step to develop an e-learning community in Armenia and form a positive attitude towards the phenomenon. First e-course implemented by ADLN was entitled “Electronic Commerce”. The course materials were based on the first e-commerce book in Armenian Language “E-commerce” (2004) written by Albert Poghosyan. Fifty participants from all over Armenia were involved in the course, which offered also after course consultation opportunities if the participants express a desire to develop their own e-projects. After the graduation, the participants received a certificate together with the upper mentioned book. The second e-course that attracted more than 150 participants was entitled “Electronic Marketing” (2006). ADLN had 60 graduates that completed the whole learning and assessment process. The third e-course entitled “PR in the new era of communication” is in the process of development. All courses are conducted only in Armenian, thus the course development and adaptation process is considered to be of high importance. \nThe system is connected to the Armenian Electronic Payment System - EDram, as well as international on-line & credit card payment systems thus the users are able to register both – on-line and off-line. \nSystem tools of the ADLN system are: \n\n"}
{"id": "4760916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760916", "title": "Azerbaijan State Oil and Industry University", "text": "Azerbaijan State Oil and Industry University\n\nAzerbaijan State Oil and Industry University (formerly Azerbaijan State Oil Academy) () is a tertiary education institution in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n\nThe rise of what became ASOIU is tied to the rise of the petroleum industry in the Baku region. By 1887 the preparatory technical school that would become Baku Polytechnicum was established in Baku. By 1910 it had integrated a curriculum related to the growing oil industry. However, the ratio of Azeris to non-Azeris was so skewed that, of the 494 students studying at the school in 1916, only 20 were Azeri. On November 14, 1920, after the invasion of the Red Army and the establishment of the fledgling Azerbaijan SSR, the new government decreed that Baku Polytechnicum would close and be replaced by Baku Polytechnical Institute, a more traditional polytechnic institute and the beginnings of the current incarnation. The new school focused on training engineers in a broad range of industries, from agriculture to oil. By 1923 the school graduated its first three students; by 1927 it had risen to 289 graduates.\n\nThe new school went through many name changes over the years as its emphasis changed to meet the needs of Azerbaijan. In 1923 the school changed its name to Azerbaijan Polytechnical Institute. In 1929 the agriculture department was spun off into a separate Agriculture Institute and the university changed its name to the Azerbaijan Oil Institute (AOI) in 1930. However, the expanding need for engineers in areas outside oil resulted in expansion in the school's curriculum. The school changed names again in 1934, this time to the Azerbaijan Industrial Institute (Az.I.I.).\n\nWorld War II taxed the Soviet Union and schools like Az.I.I. struggled to stay open. At the end of the war, there was great demand for oil engineers in the Soviet Union and the school trained them in great numbers. In 1952, the government founded a separate Azerbaijan Polytechnical Institute and moved much of the non-petrochemical curricula to the new school so that Az.I.I. could focus on the oil industry. On February 12, 1959 the school was renamed the Azerbaijan Oil and Chemistry Institute (AzOCI). In the early 1960s an evening program was developed. This program developed into its own, separate public university in 1992, reusing the name Azerbaijan Industrial Institute and becoming Sumgait State University. On March 21, 1992, after the independence of Azerbaijan from the Soviet Union, the university changed its name to the current ASOIU.\n\nIn 1993 the school changed its curricula into a more Western model, with its first bachelor's and master's degree candidates graduating in 1999.\n\nBy the decree of the president, the university was named the Azerbaijan State Oil and Industrial University in 2015.\n\nOn April 30, 2009, a shooting spree occurred at the academy in which thirteen people were killed. The perpetrator was Farda Gadirov, a Georgian citizen of Azerbaijani descent.\n\nThe campus is on Azadlıq Prospekti (Liberty Avenue) in Baku.\n\nThe university is run by a management body of prorectors, supervised by the Scientific Council and the rector Mustafa Babanli.\n\nThe Academy has eight faculties – Geology and Exploration Faculty, Gas, Petroleum and Mining Faculty, Chemical Technologies Faculty, Petro-mechanics Faculty, Energetics Faculty, Automatization of Production Processes Faculty, Engineering Economics, International Economic Relationships and Management Faculty and the Institute for Specialization and Re-education of Workforce for Industrial Organizations.\n\nSince the breakup of the Soviet Union, ASOA has worked with a dozen Western universities to Westernize and modernize its programs, in particular with Georgia State University to develop a modern Masters of Business Administration program.\n\nASOA trains students in more than 50 fields: geological engineering, computer sciences, metallurgical engineering, hydrogeology engineering, geophysics engineering, mountain-mining engineering, petroleum and gas constructions engineering, heating energetics engineering, equipment production engineering, technology machinery and apparatus engineering, electrical engineering, electronics, communication and radiotechnics engineering, mechatronics and robotechnology engineering, mechanical engineering, information technology and systems engineering, re-manufacturing and repair engineering, metrology, standardization and certification engineering, chemical engineering, petroleum and gas engineering, automatization engineering, management, engineering economics, marketing and so on.\n\nIn 1931, the university received “Order of the Red Banner of Labor of the Azerbaijan SSR” and in 1940, it received “Order of the Red Banner of Labor”.\n\nThe Academy has its own sports complex with swimming pool, tennis courts and all-weather football pitch. The \"Neftçi\" (~\"Oilers\") run teams in 12 sports including football, swimming, handball, basketball, athletics, judo, boxing and wrestling.\n\n\n\nThe academy is a member of the Caucasus University Association.\n\nASOIU’s international relations are developed in the following areas:\n\n\nIn 2015, by the presidential decree, the French-Azerbaijan University (UFAZ) was established. The students of this university have an opportunity to get a diploma form the University of Strasbourg.\n\nASOIU is cooperating with several foreign universities:\n\n\nIn 2017, “New Educational Trend” conference was held in Baku at the 11th Azerbaijan International Education Festival. During the conference “Memorandum of Understanding” between Azerbaijan State Oil and Industrial University and Poltava National Technical University. \n\nOn September 23, 2018, during the 65th anniversary of the China University of Petroleum (CUP), Mustafa Babanli the rector of ASOIU and Zhang Laibin the rector of the CUP signed a memorandum of cooperation in Beijing, China.\n\nASOIU signed cooperation contract with Inonu University of Turkey in 2018, which involves cooperation with higher educational institutions and organization in Turkey.\n\nDuring the meeting with Dr. Abdolrahim Navehebrahim who is the chancellor of Kharazmi University of Islamic Republic of Iran, the cooperation contract was signed between universities in 2018.\n\nOn January 26, 2018, rector of ASOIU and Ambassador of Turkmenistan to Azerbaijan Mekan Ishanguliyev held a meeting. During the meeting, bilateral cooperation and friendship in educational field were discussed between the parties.\n\nASOIU have signed cooperation contracts with several foreign universities such as Malakand University (Pakistan), Poltava National Technical University (Ukraine), Northern (Arctic) Federal University (Russia). The university is establishing cooperation with Moscow State University (Russia).\n\n"}
{"id": "15580528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15580528", "title": "BACSAP", "text": "BACSAP\n\nBACSAP (Bahrains' Association of Computer Students and Professionals) came into existence in April 1998, which was one of the first student chapters of Pakistan to be affiliated with ACM.\n\nBACSAP was the brainchild of one of the students’ Shahnawaz Malik. Upon asking him how he came up with the idea he said that the basic motivation behind this concept was that there was no society, which could provide students with the chance to do something related to his or her field of study, because at university level education should not be just books and classrooms, but rather it requires something much more than that. The students really needed a platform that would prepare them for their practical and professional life. They also needed an opportunity to improve their management and leadership skills, because that is how they learned how to take initiative and then give a practical shape to their ideas.\n\nNow BACSAP has around 150 members, and membership is opened twice a year with the start of each semester.\n\nBits Bytes & Colors is an annual Software/Hardware Exhibition & Competition held at Bahria University, Islamabad. It was started in 1998 and now has expanded to include various other categories of competitions including Film-making, Gaming, Programming, Artificial Intelligence & Quizzes.\n\nBits, Bytes & Colors 2007 included traditional quiz competition, Film-making, gaming competition, software and hardware exhibition. This time Bits, Bytes & Colors also included a Fun Fair and a Job Fair to bridge the Gap between the Students and the professional industry. The participants range from students of other universities or young professionals looking for major employment opportunities. Each year cash prizes worth millions are handed to the winners.\n\n\"Gammerz Tournament\" started as a computer gaming competition at the Bahria University Islamabad but now it has become one of the biggest computer gaming events in Islamabad and Rawalpindi. In \"Gammerz Tournament 08\" more than 300 gammers from different universities participated.\n"}
{"id": "56330920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56330920", "title": "Bella Blue", "text": "Bella Blue\n\nBella Blue (born January 25, 1982) is an American burlesque dancer and producer. She is the founder and headmistress of the New Orleans School of Burlesque.\n\nBella Blue was born on January 25, 1982 in New Orleans, Louisiana to Barbara Leopold and Pedro Bendaña. Her father, a Nicaraguan, immigrated to the United States with his mother, Yolanda, when he was five years old. Blue's parents met in high school and later married. They divorced when she was two years old and her mother remarried. Her father worked as a barber. Her mother died on February 20, 2010 from an aortic aneurism.\n\nBlue began studying dance when she was three years old. She grew up in Belle Chasse and went to Catholic school until high school, when she switched to the public Belle Chasse High School, graduating in 2000. She continued her dance training at the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts.\n\nBlue trained in classical ballet and modern dance techniques and worked as a teacher of ballet and modern dance prior to being introduced to burlesque in 2007. Blue auditioned for Trixie Minx's burlesque troupe Fleur de Tease, making her debut as one of their dancers in February 2007 under the name Jazzabella Blue, later dropping the \"Jazza\" from her name. Blue later quit her day job as a dental assistant and began dancing full time. She started her own burlesque troupe, The Foxglove Revue, and is the founder and headmistress of the New Orleans School of Burlesque. She produces and directs the \"Dirty Dime Peepshow\", \"Whiskey and Rhinestones\", \"The New Orleans School of Burlesque Student Showcase\", \"Strip Roulette\", \"Legs and Eggs Burlesque Brunch\", and several other large scale shows in New Orleans and the across the United States. Along with burlesque, Blue has also previously worked as an exotic dancer and in 2017 became a certified yoga teacher.\n\nIn January 2015, Blue debuted sixteenth in the Burlesque Top 50 by \"21st Century Magazine\", consistently ranking in the top 20 for over three years.\n\nIn 2016, Blue was crowned the Unicorn Queen in the Chewbacchus parade during Mardi Gras.\n\nIn 2008, Blue hosted a burlesque workshop in a dance studio on the West Bank of New Orleans. Eventually the workshop grew into New Orleans' only burlesque school, offering weekly burlesque classes. Students at the school are taught burlesque technique, character, costuming, and history. Blue is the headmistress of the school and also teaches at the school. The school is located in St. Claude, New Orleans.\n\nBlue was a producer of \"The Blue Book\", a burlesque show at the club Lucky Pierre's on Bourbon Street in the French Quarter. After one of her dancers, Ruby Rage, was dismissed from performing at the club reportedly due to her body type and appearance, Blue decided to cancel the show and leave Lucky Pierre's. Blue had not been informed of the club's decision to drop Rage until after she had been dismissed.\n\nBlue identifies as queer and is in a relationship with her fellow burlesque producer AJay Strong. Blue has two sons, one of which was diagnosed with Aspergers.\n"}
{"id": "37515839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37515839", "title": "Bureau de coopération interuniversitaire", "text": "Bureau de coopération interuniversitaire\n\nThe Bureau de coopération interuniversitaire (BCI, in English Office of Interuniversity Cooperation) - formerly the Conférence des recteurs et des principaux des universités du Québec (CREPUQ, in English Conference of Rectors and Principals of Quebec Universities) - is a private organization which unites, on a voluntary basis, all Quebec universities. The objective of the BCI is to coordinate universities and higher education establishments of Quebec, to represent them in the national and international bodies and to facilitate the evolution of universities.\nFounded in 1963, CREPUQ was incorporated non-profit in 1967 ; it has a permanent secretariat since January 1968. Its current (2014) president is Guy Breton. Recteur, Université de Montréal; its current (2014) CEO is Claude Bedard.\n\nThe students exchange program CREPUQ provides internationally academic exchanges. Many students come each year to perform one or more years of study in Quebec through this program, which offers various ways in affiliated countries. In France, students are generally exempt from payment of import duties in the Quebec university home and can graduate by French educational equivalence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28824223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28824223", "title": "Career Edge Organization", "text": "Career Edge Organization\n\nCareer Edge Organization (also known as Career Edge or CareerEdge.ca) Career Edge Organization (CEO) is Canada's largest provider of paid internships, engaging in connecting companies with qualified talent; while giving job seekers the chance to break into the workforce and launch their career. CEO focuses its efforts on helping four distinct candidate segments (new graduates, new graduates with self-declared disabilities, internationally qualified professionals coming to or who have recently immigrated to Canada along with Canadian Armed Force Reservists overcome barriers to meaningful employment.\n\nCEO tackles the \"no experience, no job cycle\" by offering work experience opportunities with a paid internship model that includes coaching/mentoring, on-the-job training, industry knowledge transfer, and networking as four key pillars. Together these components offer interns the opportunity to gain the knowledge, experience and connections they will need to launch a successful career.\n\nCEO was the first online job board in Canada. Career Edge Organization is headquartered in Toronto, Ontario. www.careeredge.ca\n\nIn 1996, a group of business leaders from some of Canada's largest organizations committed to make a significant contribution to youth employability by developing the Career Edge Organization and Career Edge, a unique and innovative internship program. This initiative was created in response to a finding in the mid-1990s that more than 600,000 Canadian graduates were unemployed or under-employed.\n\nIn 1999, a paid internship program specifically for graduates with disabilities was added to the organization and was called \"Ability Edge.\" Further demographic changes and skills shortages led to the creation of the Career Bridge paid internship program for \"internationally qualified professionals\" in 2003.\n\nIn 2009, Career Edge Organization was the first to conduct a nationwide study of diverse Generation Y Canadians, in partnership with Angus Reid Strategies (formerly Ipsos Reid).\n\nSince their inception, over 1,000 employers have worked closely with Career Edge Organization. In September 2010, Career Edge Organization reached a notable milestone and celebrated the placement of over 10,000 interns.\n\nIn December 2011, Career Edge Organization relaunched their online presence with a new website that takes advantage of social media and their recent rebranding exercise to unify and focus their three core programs under one web portal.\n\nCareer Edge Organization partnered with the HRPA to deliver a new specialized program for Canadian employers which allows them to achieve their organizational objectives by accessing CHRP candidates for short-term HR projects. In February 2012, Career Edge Organization also celebrated with GE Canada when they placed their 500th intern.\n\n"}
{"id": "44131237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44131237", "title": "Chowmuhani Government S.A College", "text": "Chowmuhani Government S.A College\n\nChowmuhani Government S.A College is a public college in Noakhali, Bangladesh established in 1943. The college is affiliated with National University.\n\nChoumuhany College is a prominent educational institution of Noakhali district after Noakhali Science & Technology University, Abdul Malek Ukil Medical College, Noakhali and Noakhali Government College. Every year a huge number of students get chance in different prominent university after complete their Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) examination from here.\n\n"}
{"id": "24398643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24398643", "title": "Columba Ryan", "text": "Columba Ryan\n\nColumba Ryan (born Patrick Ryan, 13 January 1916 – 4 August 2009) was a Dominican priest who was a philosophy teacher, university chaplain, and pastor. He was the brother of John Ryan, the British animator and cartoonist.\n\nPatrick Ryan was born in Hampstead in 1916, the second son of Sir Andrew Ryan, a British diplomat who was the last dragoman in Constantinople, and his wife Ruth. Patrick was educated at Ampleforth in North Yorkshire. In 1935 he entered the Dominican Order at Woodchester Priory in Gloucestershire where he was given the name Columba.\n\nAt the age of 30 (in 1946) he completed his DPhil at Oxford University. He was one of the friars who was on the Peace Pilgrimage to Vézelay in Burgundy, selecting \"30 strong men\" to carry a heavy wooden cross across France in thanksgiving for the end of the Second World War.\n\nRyan had an analytical mind and enjoyed philosophical controversy and debate. While teaching philosophy at the Dominican House of Studies at Hawkesyard in 1954, he set up a Philosophical Enquiry Group, an annual meeting for Catholic philosophers held at the nearby Spode House. The Catholic philosophers Elizabeth Anscombe and Peter Geach were among the first invited, remaining leading figures of the group for the 20 years. He was also bursar at the priory.\n\nHe was briefly in charge of studies at Blackfriars, Oxford, where he was pro-regent of studies, then became chaplain to the Catholic students at the University of Strathclyde.\n\nRyan's contribution to philosophy and theology was more through his influence on the people he taught, although a short piece 'The Traditional Concept of Natural Law: an Interpretation' (which he claimed to have written on the train before he gave it as a lecture) has been influential. His students included Herbert McCabe and Timothy McDermott, both translators of the Blackfriars Summa, and Fergus Kerr.\n\nHe was an early pioneer of religious broadcasting, producing and narrating films about the religious life.\n\nHe died, aged 93, on what was then the Feast of St Dominic.\n\n"}
{"id": "36107849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36107849", "title": "Craig Pohlman", "text": "Craig Pohlman\n\nCraig Pohlman is a licensed psychologist in North Carolina, U.S., who specializes in learning issues. He is the Director of Mind Matters at Southeast Psych, a program that focuses on learning. Pohlman has authored and co-authored several books, chapters, articles, and blogs centered on learning.\n\nPohlman received his A.B. in Psychology from Brown University and his M.Ed. and Ph.D. in School Psychology from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. While at UNC – Chapel Hill, he trained at The Clinical Center for the Study of Development and Learning.\n\nPohlman has authored or co-authored three books.\n\nIn addition, Pohlman wrote a chapter entitled “Assessment of specific neurodevelopmental functions\" published in \"Therapist's Guide to Learning and Attention Disorders'] (Academic) in 2003.\n\nPohlman has presented nationally and internationally. He presents and gives workshops for educators, professionals, and parents. Some of his most popular presentations include:\n\n"}
{"id": "13195412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13195412", "title": "Cramming (education)", "text": "Cramming (education)\n\nIn education, cramming (also known as mugging or swotting, from\n\"swot,\" akin to \"sweat\", meaning \"to study with determination\") is the practice of working intensively to absorb large volumes of informational material in short amounts of time. It is often done by students in preparation for upcoming exams, especially just before they are due. Usually the student's priority is to obtain shallow recall suited to a superficial examination protocol, rather than to internalize the deep structure of the subject matter. Cramming is often discouraged by educators because the hurried coverage of material tends to result in poor long-term retention of material, a phenomenon often referred to as the spacing effect. Despite this, educators nevertheless widely persist in the use of superficial examination protocols, because these questions are easier to compose, quicker (and therefore cheaper for the institution) to grade, and objective on their own terms. When cramming, one attempts to focus only on studies and to forgo unnecessary actions or habits.\n\nCramming is often done the night before a test, or in the days before a final exam.\n\nIn Commonwealth countries, cramming usually occurs during the revision week (week before exams), also known as \"swotvac\" or \"stuvac\".\n\nH.E. Gorst stated in his book, 'The Curse of Education', \"as long as education is synonymous with cramming on an organized plan, it will continue to produce mediocrity.\"\n\nGenerally considered an undesirable study technique, cramming is becoming more and more common among students both at the secondary and post-secondary level. Pressure to perform well in the classroom and engage in extracurricular activities in addition to other responsibilities often results in the cramming method of studying. Cramming is a widely used study skill performed in preparation for an examination or other performance-based assessment.\n\nMost common among high school and college-aged students, cramming is often used as a means of memorizing large amounts of information in a short amount of time. Students are often forced to cram after improper time utilization or in efforts to understand information shortly before being tested. Improper time management is usually the cause for last-minute cramming sessions, and many study techniques have been developed to help students succeed instead of cramming.\n\nTeaching students to avoid last-minute cramming is a large area of concern for education professionals and profit for educational corporations and businesses. Learning and teaching study techniques that enhance retention as opposed to learning for a single examination is one of the core issues that plagues colleges and university academic advisors, and also adds to the stress of academic success for students. Ideally, proper study skills need to be introduced and practiced as early as possible in order for students to effectively learn positive study mechanisms.\n\nAccording to William G. Sommer, students in a university system often adapt to the time-constraints that are placed upon them in college, and often use cramming to perform well on tests. In his article, \"Procrastination and Cramming: How Adept Students Ace the System\", he states \"Many students outwardly adapt to this system, however, engage in an intense and private ritual that comprises five aspects: calculated procrastination, preparatory anxiety, climactic cramming, nick-of-time deadline-making, and a secret, if often uncelebrated, victory. These adept students often find it difficult to admit others into their efficient program of academic survival.\"\nActive learning and critical thinking are two methods which emphasize the retention of material through the use of class discussions, study groups and individual thinking. Each has been cited as a more effective means of learning and retaining information as compared to cramming and memorization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18181425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18181425", "title": "Critical reading", "text": "Critical reading\n\nCritical reading is a form of language analysis that does not take the given text at face value, but involves a deeper examination of the claims put forth as well as the supporting points and possible counterarguments. The ability to reinterpret and reconstruct for improved clarity and readability is also a component of critical reading. The identification of possible ambiguities and flaws in the author's reasoning, in addition to the ability to address them comprehensively, are essential to this process. Critical reading, much like academic writing, requires the linkage of evidential points to corresponding arguments.\n\nAs acknowledged by a number of scholars and wordsmiths,\nThere are no simple relations between these levels. As the \"hermeneutic circle\" demonstrates, the understanding of single words depends on the understanding of the text as a whole (as well as the culture in which the text is produced) and vice versa: You cannot understand a text if you do not understand the words in the text.\n\nThe critical reading of a given text thus implies a critical examination of the concepts used as well as of the soundness of the arguments and the value and relevance of the assumptions and the traditions on which the text is given.\n\n\"Reading between the lines\" is the ability to uncover implicit messages and bias.\n\nThurston (1993, p. 638) introduces the concept of \"symptomatic reading\": \"Symptomatic reading is used in literary criticism as a means of analyzing the presence of ideology in literary texts. French Marxist philosophers Louis Althusser and Étienne Balibar develop the technique of symptomatic reading in \"Reading Capital\"\". Dorfman and Mattelart later used symptomatic reading as a means of analyzing the presence of imperialist ideology in Disney comics.\n\nWhen you read, you have to seek information, and you are confronted with different views, which forces you to consider your own position. In this process, the reader is converted to a \"writer\", whether or not he writes or publishes his own ideas.\n\nReading and writing are thus reciprocal processes, reading is an active process, and the best way to learn critical reading is probably by training academic writing.\n\nBazerman (1994) writes about the active role of the reader, and remarks (p. 23): \"The cure for real boredom is to find a more advanced book on the subject; the only cure for pseudo-boredom is to become fully and personally involved in the book already in front of you\". Bazerman's book is informed by an advanced theoretical knowledge of scholarly research, documents and their composition. For example, chapter 6 is about \"Recognizing the many voices in a text\". The practical advises given are based on textual theory (Mikhail Bakhtin and Julia Kristeva). Chapter 8 is titled \"Evaluating the book as a whole: The book review\", and the first heading is \"books as tools\".\n\nBasically critical reading is related to epistemological issues. Hermeneutics (e.g., the version developed by Hans-Georg Gadamer) has demonstrated that the way we read and interpret texts is dependent on our \"pre-understanding\" and \"prejudices\". Human knowledge is always an interpretative clarification of the world, not a pure, interest-free theory. Hermeneutics may thus be understood as a theory about critical reading. This field was until recently associated with the humanities, not with science. This situation changed when Thomas Samuel Kuhn published his book (1962) \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", which can be seen as an hermeneutic interpretation of the sciences because it conceives the scientists as governed by assumptions which are historically embedded and linguistically mediated activities organized around paradigms that direct the conceptualization and investigation of their studies. Scientific revolutions imply that one paradigm replaces another and introduces a new set of theories, approaches and definitions. According to Mallery; Hurwitz & Duffy (1992) the notion of a paradigm-centered scientific community is analogous to Gadamer's notion of a linguistically encoded social tradition. In this way hermeneutics challenge the positivist view that science can cumulate objective facts. Observations are always made on the background of theoretical assumptions: they are theory dependent.\n\nBy conclusion is critical reading not just something that any scholar is able to do. The way we read is partly determined by the intellectual traditions, which have formed our beliefs and thinking. Generally we read papers within our own culture or tradition less critically compared to our reading of papers from other traditions or \"paradigms\".\n\nThe psychologist Cyril Burt is known for his studies on the effect of heredity on intelligence. Shortly after he died, his studies of inheritance and intelligence came into disrepute after evidence emerged indicating he had falsified research data. Tucker's paper (1994) is illuminative on both how \"critical reading\" was performed in the discovery of the falsified data as well as in many famous psychologists \"non-critical reading\" of Burt's papers. Tucker shows that the recognized experts within the field of intelligence research blindly accepted Cyril Burt's research even though it was without scientific value and probably directly faked: They wanted to believe that IQ is hereditary and considered uncritically empirical claims supporting this view. This paper thus demonstrates how critical reading (and the opposite) may be related to beliefs as well as to interests and power structures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33964435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33964435", "title": "DARPA Shredder Challenge 2011", "text": "DARPA Shredder Challenge 2011\n\nDARPA Shredder Challenge 2011 was a prize competition for exploring methods to reconstruct documents shredded by a variety of paper shredding techniques. The aim of the challenge was to \"assess potential capabilities that could be used by the U.S. warfighters operating in war zones, but might also identify vulnerabilities to sensitive information that is protected by shredding practices throughout the U.S. national security community\". The competition was sponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), a research organization of the United States Department of Defense. Congress authorized DARPA to award cash prizes to further DARPA’s mission to sponsor revolutionary, high-payoff research that bridges the gap between fundamental discoveries and their use for national security.\n\nUnder the rules of the competition, the $50,000 challenge award would be granted to the first team to submit the answers to questions relating to a hidden mystery. The mystery verified that the team was able to extract meaningful intelligence from the page that was thought destroyed. The secret answers could be acquired by reconstructing five individual puzzles that were created by shredding one or more single-sided hand-written documents. \n\nNearly 9,000 teams participated between 12:00PM EDT on October 27, 2011, and the deadline of 11:59PM EST on December 4, 2011, with the San Francisco-based team \"All Your Shreds are Belong to U.S.\" winning the competition three days ahead of schedule. \n\nThe team used a combination of techniques to solve the puzzles: custom-coded computer-vision algorithm were created to suggest fragment pairings to human assemblers for verification. The eight-person team led by a technology entrepreneur Otavio Good also included Keith Walker, Winnie Tong, Luke Alonso, Zina Tebaykina, and Sohana Ahmed with two more persons joining to help in the end. The team's three programmers had strong image-processing skills that enabled them to win this challenge: at the time of DARPA Shredder Challenge 2011, Otavio Good was leading the development of the visual translation tool Word Lens, Luke Alonso was a developer of the mobile phone application \"Cabana\", and Keith Walker was a programmer working on a satellite software at Lockheed Martin. \n\nApproximately 600 worker-hours were dedicated by the team to reconstruct five documents shredded into more than 10,000 pieces. According to Good, the team's name was based on an Internet meme \"All your base are belong to us\".\n\nSecond placed team, \"Schroddon\", was composed just of husband and wife Marianne and Don Engel living in Baltimore, Maryland. In contrast to the winning team, Schroddon used a human-assisted algorithm that the couple created. Both physicists, Marianne used her background in cryptography and Don used his background in computer science. The couple was ranked first from November 14 until November 18, 2011.\n\nUniversity of California, San Diego (UCSD) reconstructed three puzzles through an online crowdsourcing approach, but their work-in-progress was repeatedly sabotaged.\n\nIn the final standings, the top 10 teams reported are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26964279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26964279", "title": "DataCite", "text": "DataCite\n\nDataCite is an international not-for-profit organization which aims to improve data citation in order to:\n\nIn August 2009 a paper was published laying out an approach for a global registration agency for research data. DataCite was subsequently founded in London on 1 December 2009 by organisations from 6 countries: the British Library; the Technical Information Center of Denmark (DTIC); the TU Delft Library from the Netherlands; the National Research Council’s Canada Institute for Scientific and Technical Information (NRC-CISTI); the California Digital Library (University of California Curation Center); Purdue University (USA); and the German National Library of Science and Technology (TIB).\n\nAfter the founding of DataCite, leading research libraries and information centres converged for the first official members’ convention in Paris on 5 February 2010. The inclusion of five further members was approved in the office of the International Council for Science (ICSU): Australian National Data Service (ANDS); Deutsche Zentralbibliothek für Medizin (ZB MED); GESIS - Leibniz-Institut für Sozialwissenschaften; French Institute for Scientific and Technical Information (INIST); and Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule (ETH) Zürich.\n\nThe primary means of establishing easier access to research data is by DataCite members assigning persistent identifiers, such as digital object identifiers (DOIs), to data sets. Although currently leveraging the well-established DOI infrastructure, DataCite takes an open approach to identifiers, and considers other systems and services that help forward its objectives. \n\nDataCite's recommended format for a data citation is: \nOR\n\nDataCite recommends that DOI names are displayed as linkable, permanent URLs.\n\nThird-party tools allow the migration of content to and from other services such as ODIN, for ORCID\n\n\nIn April 2017, DataCite was one of the founding partners in the Initiative for Open Citations.\n\n"}
{"id": "50918939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50918939", "title": "Dong Nai University", "text": "Dong Nai University\n\nDong Nai University (DNU) is a public university located in Đồng Nai Province, Vietnam.\n\n"}
{"id": "10946460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10946460", "title": "Education minister", "text": "Education minister\n\nAn education minister (sometimes minister of education) is a position in the governments of some countries responsible for dealing with educational matters. Where known, the government department, ministry, or agency that develops policy and delivers services relating to education are listed; overseen by and responsible to the education minister. The first such ministry ever is considered to be the Commission of National Education (pl. \"Komisja Edukacji Narodowej\", lt. \"Edukacinė komisija\") founded in 1773 in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. \n\nMinister of Education may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: Canada does not have an Education Minister at the federal government level as education is a provincial responsibility.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37120802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37120802", "title": "Educational robotics", "text": "Educational robotics\n\nEducational robotics is a broad term that refers to a collection of activities, instructional programs, physical platforms, educational resources and pedagogical philosophy. There are many schools which are using the robot teacher. \n\nThe primary of objective of educational robotics is to provide a set of experience to facilitate the student's development of knowledge, skills and attitudes for the design, analysis, application and operation of robots. The term robot here is used quite broadly and may include articulated robots, mobile robots or autonomous vehicles of any scale. The rigor of the approach can be scaled based on the background of the target audience and may be suitable for students across the entire educational spectrum—from elementary school or graduate programs.\n\nAn alternate, or secondary, objective is to use robotics as a tangible and exciting application to motivate and facilitate the instruction other, often foundational, topics such as computer programming, artificial intelligence or engineering design.\n\nRobotics engineers design robots, maintain them, develop new applications for them, and conduct research to expand the potential of robotics. Robots have become a popular educational tool in some middle and high schools, as well as in numerous youth summer camps, raising interest in programming, artificial intelligence and robotics among students. First-year computer science courses at several universities now include programming of a robot in addition to traditional software engineering-based coursework.\n\nSince 2014, companies like Cytron Technologies has been making inroads into schools and learning centers with their rero reconfigurable robot. Designed to be easy and safe to assemble and easy to program, robotics became very accessible to young children with no programming skills and even up to advance users at tertiary level. Robotics education was heavily promoted via roadshows, science fairs, exhibitions, workshops, camps and co-sponsored classes, bringing robotics education to the masses.\n\nFrom approximately 1960 though 2005, robotics education at post-secondary institutions took place through elective courses, thesis experiences and design projects offered as part of degree programs in traditional academic disciplines, such as mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, industrial engineering or computer science.\n\nSince 2005, more universities have begun granting degrees in robotics as a discipline in its own right, often under the name \"Robotic Engineering\". Based on a 2015 web-based survey of robotics educators, the degree programs and their estimates annual graduates are listed alphabetically below. Note that only official degree programs where the word \"robotics\" appears on the transcript or diploma are listed here; whereas degree programs in traditional disciplines with course concentrations or thesis topics related to robotics are deliberately omitted.\n\nThe Robotics Certification Standards Alliance (RCSA) is an international robotics certification authority that confers various industry- and educational-related robotics certifications.\n\nSeveral summer camp programs include robotics as part of their core curriculum. In addition, youth summer robotics programs are frequently offered by celebrated museums such as the American Museum of Natural History and The Tech Museum of Innovation in Silicon Valley, CA, just to name a few.\n\nMany schools across the country are beginning to add robotics programs to their after school curriculum. Two main programs for afterschool robotics are Botball and FIRST Robotics.\n\n"}
{"id": "18566311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18566311", "title": "Elisabeth Rotten", "text": "Elisabeth Rotten\n\nElisabeth Friederike Rotten (15 February 1882, Berlin - 2 May 1964) was a Quaker peace activist and educational progressive.\n\nAs daughter to the Swiss couple Moritz and Luise Rotten, she attended the \"höhere Mädchenschule Luisenschule\" during 1888-1898, later studying at the Victorialyzeum Berlin from 1904. In September 1906 she took the Reifeprüfung at the Kaiserin Augusta-Gymnasium Charlottenburg. She graduated in her studies in philosophy and German language and literature in Heidelberg, Berlin, Marburg and Montpellier. In Marburg she met with Hermann Lietz and Gustav Wyneken, which was vital to the future development of her thinking. In 1913 she published her PhD thesis under the title \"Goethes Urphänomen und die platonische Idee\" (Goethe's \"Urphänomen\" and the Platonic ideal) in Marburg. \n\nIn 1913 she began lecturing at the University of Cambridge on German literature. In 1914 she returned to Berlin and worked in the \"Auskunfts- und Hilfsstelle für Deutsche im Ausland und Ausländer in Deutschland\" with professor Friedrich Siegmund-Schultze. In the same year she co-founded the \"Bund Neues Vaterland\", later the \"German League for Human Rights\". In 1915 she travelled as a representative to the 1st International Women's Congress in The Hague and worked for the foundation of the \"Internationalen Frauenliga für Frieden und Freiheit\" (International Women's League for Peace and Freedom\").\n\nIn 1922, together with Beatrice Ensor and Adolphe Ferrière she founded the New Education Fellowship becoming its vice-chair for German-speaking countries and editor, of its German language journal which eventually came to be called Das Werdende Zeitalter. \nFrom 1922 she was associated with the school farm, Schulfarm Insel Scharfenberg, begun by Wilhelm Blume in Berlin and was a frequent visitor to the Odenwaldschule founded in 1910 by the educational reformer Paul Geheeb.\n\nIn 1925, Rotten and Adolphe Ferrière became the first Deputy Directors of the International Bureau of Education (IBE), where they provided support to Director Pierre Bovet. \n\nShe was also a friend of the anarchist, Gustav Landauer, who was Minister of Culture in the short-lived Munich Soviet (or “Council Republic”) of 1919 before being murdered after it was violently suppressed. \nFrom 1926 until 1932, Rotten shared the editorship of the journal \"Das Werdende Zeitalter\" with Karl Wilker, an exponent of social pedagogy who transformed the Lindenhof in Berlin. The title of this journal was inspired by that given to a collection of essays by Landauer, which his friend, the philosopher Martin Buber, published in 1921. \nIn 1930, Rotten co-founded a school at Hellerau just outside Dresden, where a garden city was established shortly after 1900 as part of a reform movement advocating modern housing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20114992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20114992", "title": "Georgia Career Information System", "text": "Georgia Career Information System\n\nThe Georgia Career Information System (GCIS) provides current, accurate occupational and educational information to schools and agencies throughout Georgia in order to help young people and adults make informed career choices. It is the main service of the Georgia Career Information Center (GCIC).\n\nWorking with educational and labor market professionals, GCIS contains assessments, explorations, and search strategies as well as the most comprehensive and accurate state and national occupational and educational information. In addition to career management tools for individuals, tools are available to assist administrators. Each year, about 625,000 Georgians access GCIS from around 1,250 sites.\n\nA further initiative, the \"Georgia Career Information System Junior\" (GCIS Junior) provides career development information for elementary and middle school students.\n\n"}
{"id": "43195480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43195480", "title": "Hollyhill Hummingbird Farm", "text": "Hollyhill Hummingbird Farm\n\nHollyhill Hummingbird Farm, a 501(c)(3) Nonprofit corporation, is an educational farm located in Santa Rosa, California. Its focus is on biodynamics, sustainability, and the ethical treatment of life.\nThe Farm was founded in 2011, by Dave West, an aerospace engineer. Hollyhill Hummingbird Farm's symbol of a hummingbird comes from the philosophy of symbiosis.\n\nThe Farm grows fruit, vegetables, nuts, herbs, and grains with the help of community volunteers.\n"}
{"id": "1328594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1328594", "title": "Hugo Dingler", "text": "Hugo Dingler\n\nHugo Albert Emil Hermann Dingler (July 7, 1881, Munich – June 29, 1954, Munich) was a German scientist and philosopher.\n\nHugo Dingler studied mathematics, philosophy, and physics with Felix Klein, Hermann Minkowski, David Hilbert, Edmund Husserl, Woldemar Voigt, and Wilhem Roentgen at the universities of Göttingen and Munich. He graduated from the University of Munich with a thesis under Aurel Voss. Dingler earned his Ph.D. in mathematics, physics and astronomy in 1906. His doctoral advisor was Ferdinand von Lindemann. In 1910 Dingler's first attempt to earn a Habilitation failed. His second try in 1912 was successful. Dingler then taught as a Privatdozent and hold lectures on mathematics, philosophy and the history of science. He became a professor at the University of Munich in 1920. Dingler got a position as Professor ordinarius in Darmstadt in 1932.\n\nIn 1934, one year after the Nazis took power Dingler was dismissed from his teaching position for still unclear reasons. Dingler himself told several interviewers that this was because of his favorable writings concerning Jews. In fact both philo-semitic as well as anti-semitic statements by Dingler had been noted.\n\nFrom 1934 to 1936 he again held a teaching position.\n\nIn 1940 Dingler joined the Nazi Party and was again given a teaching position. Of Dingler's 1944 book \"Aufbau der exakten Fundamentalwissenschaft\" only thirty copies survived wartime bombing.\n\nDingler's position is usually characterized as \"conventionalist\" by Karl Popper and others. Sometimes he is called a \"radical conventionalist\" (also referred to as \"critical voluntarism\" in the secondary literature), as by the early Rudolf Carnap. Dingler himself initially characterized it as \"critical conventionalism\", to contrast it with the \"naïve conventionalism\" of other philosophers such as Poincaré, but he himself later ceased to call his position conventionalist. Dingler agrees with the conventionalists that the fundamental assumptions of geometry and physics are not extracted empirically and cannot be given a transcendental deduction. However, Dingler disagrees with conventionalists such as Henri Poincaré in that he does not believe there is freedom to choose alternative assumptions. Dingler believes that one can give a foundation to mathematics and physics by means of operations as building stones. Dingler claims that this operational analysis leads one to Euclidean geometry and Newtonian mechanics, which are the only possible results.\n\nDingler opposed Einstein's relativity theory and was therefore opposed and snubbed by most of the leaders of the German physics and mathematics community. This opposition, at least to the theory of general relativity, remains in the work of his follower Paul Lorenzen.\n\nPaul Lorenzen, noted for his work on constructive foundations of mathematics was a follower of Dingler, at least with respect to the foundations of geometry and physics. The so-called Erlangen School of followers and allies of Lorenzen, including Kuno Lorenz, Wilhelm Kamlah, and Peter Janich, and more indirectly, Jürgen Mittelstraß, is thus in large part pursuing a modernized version of Dingler's program which claims to incorporate relativity, quantum theory and quantum logic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3771834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3771834", "title": "INFOCOMP Journal of Computer Science", "text": "INFOCOMP Journal of Computer Science\n\nINFOCOMP Journal of Computer Science () is an international peer-reviewed quarterly scientific journal. The areas of interest covered are artificial intelligence, combinatorial optimization and meta-heuristics, computer graphics, image processing and virtual reality, databases, graphs, applied mathematics and theory of computation, hypermedia and multimedia, information systems, information technology in education, and software engineering.\n\n\"INFOCOMP Journal of Computer Science\" is published by the Department of Computer Science of the Federal University of Lavras, in Minas Gerais, Brazil. The journal is published quarterly, in March, June, September and December, in both online and print versions. The online version is published as open access. All previous issues are accessible online.\n\nThe journal is indexed in the Directory of Open Access Journals, Inspec, , and others.\n\n\"INFOCOMP Journal of Computer Science\" was first published in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "25475437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25475437", "title": "Iqrar Ahmad Khan", "text": "Iqrar Ahmad Khan\n\nIqrar Ahmad Khan is a Pakistani agricultural scientist and a professor of Horticulture at the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad. He served as a Vice Chancellor for University of Agriculture, Faisalabad from 2008 to 2017. He earned his Ph.D. from the University of California, Riverside. Khan has released a potato variety (PARS-70), pioneered the research on breeding seedless Kinnow and discovered two new botanical varieties of wheat. He was author of STED funded Citrus Nursery Project launched at UAF. He was instrumental in developing international/regional mango research program to combat the sudden death of mango.\nHe was disqualified by Lahore high court on Wednesday 9 August 2017 discreet (UAF) University of Agriculture, Faisalabad acting Vice-Chancellor Prof. Iqrar Ahmad Khan from his job and ordered Prof Dr Zafar Iqbal its Pro-Vice Chancellor to look after the university's matters.\n\n"}
{"id": "18328802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18328802", "title": "Kfar Galim", "text": "Kfar Galim\n\nKfar Galim (, \"lit.\" Waves Village) is a boarding school and youth village in northern Israel. Located near Tirat Carmel, it falls under the jurisdiction of Hof HaCarmel Regional Council. In it had a population of .\n\nThe school was established in 1952 as a partnership between the Haifa municipal council and the Ministry of Immigrant Absorption.\n\nKfar Galim runs a middle school, a high school, an engineering college and a farm. It also has dormitory facilities.\n\nKfar Galim accepts students in 7th to 12th grade. It offers majors in biology and environmental sciences, communication and society (radio and television) and physical education. It also runs an electronic and computer engineering technology program in collaboration with the Israel Air Force (13th and 14th grades). Graduates of this program are awarded a Practical Engineering degree and can do their military service in the air force.\n\nThe boarding school has an enrollment of 170 students from all over the country. Many are new immigrants or children of Russian and Ethiopian immigrants. Admission is also open to Israeli teenagers.\n\nArchaeological excavations in the region of Kfar Galim found evidence of an ancient olive oil industry. Thousands of olive pits and waste from processing the olives were discovered there, attesting to the existence of one of the earliest known Neolithic agro-pastoral-fishing subsistence systems on the Levantine coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "28560103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28560103", "title": "Labshare", "text": "Labshare\n\nLabshare consortium is a laboratory sharing initiative established by the Federal Commonwealth of Australia Government's Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations by their Diversity and Structural Adjustment Fund awarded the five Australian Technology Network Universities: University of South Australia, Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, University of Technology Sydney, Curtin University of Technology and Queensland University of Technology, which supported the national sharing of remote labs as a consortium of Australian Technology Network Universities who would share remote laboratories.\n\nThe University of South Australia was first to establish its NetLab remote lab in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26854262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26854262", "title": "Lorna Marshall", "text": "Lorna Marshall\n\nLorna Marshall (September 14, 1898 – July 8, 2002), born Lorna Jean McLean, was an anthropologist who in the 1950s, 60s and 70s lived among and wrote about the previously unstudied !Kung people of the Kalahari Desert.\n\nMarshall was born in Morenci, Arizona territory. She married Laurence Kennedy Marshall in 1926; they had a daughter Elizabeth Marshall Thomas (born 1931) and a son John Kennedy Marshall (1932–2005). Marshall received a BA in English Literature from UC Berkeley in 1921 and an MA from Radcliffe College in 1928, and before 1926 worked as an English instructor at Mount Holyoke. Later she took anthropology courses at Harvard University and had a second career as an ethnographer. Her husband was born in Medford, Massachusetts in 1889, studied at Tufts University, and co-founded the Raytheon Company in 1922 where he worked until 1950.\n\nIn 1951, the Marshall family went to South-West Africa (now Namibia) to conduct an ethnographic study of the !Kung of Nyae Nyae (also known as the Ju/'hoansi or Ju/'hoan Bushmen). The family became deeply engaged in this work and returned to Africa on several expeditions throughout the 1950s and 1960s, each lasting from a few months to a year and a half. As Elizabeth Marshall Thomas explains in her book, \"The Old Way\", Laurence Marshall attempted to recruit an anthropologist to join their expeditions, but no one was interested. It then fell to Lorna Marshall to conduct ethnographic interviews and compile fieldnotes, despite the fact that she had no formal anthropological training.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, Marshall published numerous articles on !Kung culture and religion. Her first book, \"The !Kung of Nyae Nyae\", was published in 1976 to positive reviews including one by Alan Barnard, who called Marshall \"one of the most sensitive, meticulous and unpretentious ethnographers of all time.\" Marshall enjoyed a long career, publishing her second book, \"Nyae Nyae !Kung Beliefs and Rites\", in 1999 when she was 101. In addition to written ethnography, Lorna Marshall also collaborated on several ethnographic films about the !Kung of Nyae Nyae with her son, John Kennedy Marshall (1932–2005), a documentary and ethnographic filmmaker.\n\nShe died at her daughter Elizabeth's home in Peterborough, New Hampshire, where she had lived since 1996, in 2002 at the age of 103; she had previously lived in the same house in Cambridge, Massachusetts, since the late 1920s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25932431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25932431", "title": "Louis F. Knoll", "text": "Louis F. Knoll\n\nLouis F. Knoll (died 2004) was an American Baptist missionary who taught Christian Ethics at the Andhra Christian Theological College, Hyderabad, affiliated with the Senate of Serampore College (University).\n\nRobert Eric Frykenberg, Professor Emeritus of History & South Asian Studies at the University of Wisconsin, Madison writes that Louis F. Knoll believed that the British Rule in India was a major obstacle to the spread of Christianity in India.\n\nKnoll was the co-founder of the Andhra Christian Theological College, Hyderabad. Samavesam of Telugu Baptist Churches ran their seminary in Ramayapatnam. At first in 1967, the B. D. section of the Ramayapatnam Baptist Theological College, of which he was the Principal, was made to be situated in the same campus of Andhra Christian Theological College before it was fully integrated into the Andhra Christian Theological College in 1972 through an \"Act of Integration\" performed by Louis F. Knoll and then acting Principal William P. Peery. Talathoti Punnaiah who underwent a 1-year spirituality course as an Aspirant at the Ramayapatnam Baptist Theological Seminary affirms the fact that it was Knoll as President of the Ramayapatnam Seminary who integrated the graduate section of the Ramayapatnam Seminary into the Andhra Christian Theological College.\n\nThe Mennonite Brethren Mission also sought Knoll to consolidate its organizational structure In 1978, when the Telugu movie \"Karunamayudu\" was released, the movie acknowledged the contribution of Knoll as a financial adviser displayed during the opening titles.\nAfter Knoll left India, he served as Vice President of American Baptist Seminary of the West from 1978 to 1985.\n\n\nAfter pursuing doctoral studies at the University of Berkeley, Knoll was awarded the doctoral degree in 1971. His doctoral thesis is preserved in microfilm and kept at the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library in New Delhi.\n\nKnoll became a member of the Council of Senate of Serampore College (University) in 1966, a position in which he continued until his resignation in 1986. In 1972, Knoll became the Master of the University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11040200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11040200", "title": "Mary Cardwell Dawson", "text": "Mary Cardwell Dawson\n\nMary Cardwell Dawson (February 14, 1894 – March 19, 1962) was an African-American musician and teacher and the founding director of the National Negro Opera Company.\n\nIn 1927, Dawson opened the Cardwell Dawson School of Music in the Homewood neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, which remained open until 1941. \n\nAfter presenting the opera \"Aida\" at the NANM convention of 1941, Dawson launched her National Negro Opera Company later that same year with a performance at Pittsburgh's Syria Mosque. The star was La Julia Rhea, and other members included Minto Cato, Carol Brice, Robert McFerrin, and Lillian Evanti. NNOC mounted productions in Washington D.C., New York City, Chicago, and Pittsburgh. Pianist Ahmad Jamal began formal training at the age of seven with Ms. Dawson, whom he says greatly influenced him.\n"}
{"id": "1556580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1556580", "title": "Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi", "text": "Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi\n\nMihaly Csikszentmihalyi (, , ; born 29 September 1934) is a Hungarian-American psychologist. He recognised and named the psychological concept of flow, a highly focused mental state. He is the Distinguished Professor of Psychology and Management at Claremont Graduate University. He is the former head of the department of psychology at the University of Chicago and of the department of sociology and anthropology at Lake Forest College.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi was born on 29 September 1934 in Fiume, then part of the Kingdom of Italy. His family name derives from the Csíkszentmihályi village in Transylvania. He was the third son of a career diplomat at the Hungarian Consulate in Fiume. His two older half-brothers died when Csikszentmihalyi was still young; one was an engineering student who was killed in the Siege of Budapest, and the other was sent to labor camps in Siberia by the Soviets.\n\nHis father was appointed Hungarian Ambassador to Italy shortly after the Second World War, moving the family to Rome. When Communists took over Hungary in 1949, Csikszentmihalyi's father resigned rather than work for the regime; the Communist regime responded by expelling his father and stripping the family of their Hungarian citizenship. To earn a living, his father opened a restaurant in Rome, and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi dropped out of school to help with the family income. At this time, the young Csikszentmihalyi, then travelling in Switzerland, saw Carl Jung give a talk on the psychology of UFO sightings.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi emigrated to the United States from Hungary at the age of 22, working nights to support himself while studying at the University of Chicago. He received his B.A. in 1959 and his PhD in 1965, both from the University of Chicago. He then taught at Lake Forest College, before becoming a professor at the University of Chicago in 1969.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi is noted for his work in the study of happiness and creativity, but is best known as the architect of the notion of \"flow\" and for his years of research and writing on the topic. He is the author of many books and over 120 articles or book chapters. Martin Seligman, former president of the American Psychological Association, described Csikszentmihalyi as the world's leading researcher on positive psychology. Csikszentmihalyi once said: \"Repression is not the way to virtue. When people restrain themselves out of fear, their lives are by necessity diminished. Only through freely chosen discipline can life be enjoyed and still kept within the bounds of reason.\" His works are influential and are widely cited.\n\nIn his seminal work, \"Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience\", Csíkszentmihályi outlines his theory that people are happiest when they are in a state of \"flow\"—a state of concentration or complete absorption with the activity at hand and the situation. It is a state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter. The idea of flow is identical to the feeling of being \"in the zone\" or \"in the groove\". The flow state is an optimal state of \"intrinsic motivation\", where the person is fully immersed in what they are doing. This is a feeling everyone has at times, characterized by a feeling of great absorption, engagement, fulfillment, and skill—and during which temporal concerns (time, food, ego-self, etc.) are typically ignored.\n\nIn an interview with \"Wired\" magazine, Csíkszentmihályi described flow as \"being completely involved in an activity for its own sake. The ego falls away. Time flies. Every action, movement, and thought follows inevitably from the previous one, like playing jazz. Your whole being is involved, and you're using your skills to the utmost.\"\n\nCsikszentmihályi characterized nine component states of achieving flow including \"challenge-skill balance, merging of action and awareness, clarity of goals, immediate and unambiguous feedback, concentration on the task at hand, paradox of control, transformation of time, loss of self-consciousness, and autotelic experience\". To achieve a flow state, a balance must be struck between the challenge of the task and the skill of the performer. If the task is too easy or too difficult, flow cannot occur. Both skill level and challenge level must be matched and high; if skill and challenge are low and matched, then apathy results.\n\nOne state that Csikszentmihalyi researched was that of the autotelic personality. The autotelic personality is one in which a person performs acts because they are intrinsically rewarding, rather than to achieve external goals. Csikszentmihalyi describes the autotelic personality as a trait possessed by individuals who can learn to enjoy situations that most other people would find miserable. Research has shown that aspects associated with the autotelic personality include curiosity, persistence, and humility.\n\nA majority of Csikszentmihalyi's most recent work surrounds the idea of motivation and the factors that contribute to motivation, challenge, and overall success in an individual. One personality characteristic that Csikszentmihalyi researched in detail was that of intrinsic motivation. Csikszentmihalyi and his colleagues found that intrinsically motivated people were more likely to be goal-directed and enjoy challenges that would lead to an increase in overall happiness.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi identified intrinsic motivation as a powerful trait to possess to optimize and enhance positive experience, feelings, and overall well-being as a result of challenging experiences. The results indicated a new personality construct, a term Csikszentmihalyi called \"work orientation\", which is characterized by \"achievement, endurance, cognitive structure, order, play, and low impulsivity\". A high level of work orientation in students is said to be a better predictor of grades and fulfillment of long-term goals than any school or household environmental influence.\n\nCsikszentmihalyi is the father of artist and professor Christopher Csikszentmihályi, and University of California, Berkeley professor of philosophical and religious traditions of China and East Asia, Mark Csikszentmihalyi.\n\nIn 2009, Csikszentmihalyi was awarded the Clifton Strengths Prize and received the Széchenyi Prize at a ceremony in Budapest in 2011. He was awarded the Grand Cross Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary in 2014. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a member of both the National Academy of Education and the National Academy of Leisure Sciences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40949007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40949007", "title": "Military Academy of Belarus", "text": "Military Academy of Belarus\n\nMilitary Academy of the Republic of Belarus () is higher military educational institution in the national education system of the Republic of Belarus and the leading institution in the education system of training, retraining and advanced training of military personnel. The Academy has lecture halls, classrooms, specialized classrooms, laboratories equipped with computers and automation. \nThe teaching staff includes about 700 teachers, including 20 doctors and 250 candidates of science, 25 professors and 200 associate professors.\n\nMilitary Academy of the Republic of Belarus was established in accordance with the Presidential Decree №192 on 17 May 1995 on the basis of two schools the Minsk Higher Military Engineering and Minsk Higher Military Command.\nMVVKU became the successor of the Minsk Higher Military-Political -Arms School, which was established May 10, 1980, and during its existence (until 1991) had carried out 11 issues and has trained more than 1,900 officers. 35 of them on completion of their studies received gold medals. More than 150 of its graduates passed the Afghan war. From 1980 to 1991, the Minsk military-political school received military training 900 people from 21 foreign countries . After Belarus gained independence following the Dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, MVVPOU was transformed into the Minsk Higher Military Command School.\n"}
{"id": "28989960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28989960", "title": "Milkana G. Palavurova", "text": "Milkana G. Palavurova\n\nMilkana Palavurova (Bulgarian: Милкана Палавурова) (born September, 1974), is a Bulgarian writer, DVD producer, Ashtanga Yoga Practitioner, and former model. She produced, edited and distributed the first yoga practice home-guide DVD in the Kingdom of Bahrain, Middle East, which has also been translated into Bulgarian.\n\nMilkana G. acquired her certification in traditional yoga practices in Tamil Nadu, India with Dr. Scintil Kumar. She became the first Bulgarian Experienced Yoga Teacher registered with USA Yoga Alliance, Bahrain Ministry of Health, and Ayurveda organization in India. She has written numerous articles for different publications and internet sites on yoga about its use for total stress relief. Some of the earnings of the articles have been donated to the National Autism Association, USA, to educate and empower individuals and families affected by autism and other neurological disorders. Her PhD work is in the field of Health Psychology, proving and discovering facts and information on body-mind connection theories. She contributed to the acceptance of yoga as a therapy in the Middle East.\n\nIn October, 2007, Milkana G. and her partner at the time Karina Gorska, established the first officially registered yoga practice in the Kingdom of Bahrain. It was called Lotus Yoga Studio. Milkana G. had become known for her article on yoga and religion, where she made a comparison between Muslim prayers and yoga positions.\n\nMilkana's modeling work entailed photoshoots for organizations such as Batelco, American Express Saudi Arabia, Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait, National Bank of Bahrain, Woman This Month (a fashion media publication), Bahrain Confidential, and many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "8328064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8328064", "title": "Ministry of Education (Malaysia)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Malaysia)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (), abbreviated MOE, is a ministry of the Government of Malaysia that is responsible for education system, compulsory education, pre-tertiary education, technical and vocational education and training (TVET), curriculum standard, textbook, standardised test, language policy, translation, selective school, comprehensive school.\n\n\n\nThe Ministry of Education is responsible for administration of several key Acts:\n\nFrequently Asked Questions about MOE Policy\n\nIn Bahasa Malaysia, it was called \"Kementerian Pendidikan\", and was in charge of all the education-related affairs. In 2004, its name was changed to \"Kementerian Pelajaran\" and then became in charge of the education from pre-school up to the secondary level. The tertiary education was taken over by a new ministry, Ministry of Higher Education until May 2013 where Prime Minister Najib Razak announced the two ministries will be merged to form a single Ministry of Education. In 2015, the ministry was split again.\n\nHistorically, the position of Minister of Education is considered a stepping stone for future Malaysian prime ministers. All Malaysian prime ministers to date have held this position in their career except the first prime minister, Tunku Abdul Rahman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11417095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11417095", "title": "NSF-GRF", "text": "NSF-GRF\n\nThe National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (NSF-GRFP) is an annual grant awarded by the National Science Foundation to approximately 2,000 students pursuing research-based Master's and doctoral degrees in the natural, social, and engineering sciences at US institutions. The fellowship provides an honorarium of $12,000 to be placed towards the cost of tuition and fees at the university the fellow attends; it also awards the student directly with an annual $34,000 stipend for three years. Each recipient could previously apply for a one time only travel award for $1,000. This travel award was previously for international research activities or presenting at an international scientific conference. However, in 2010, this opportunity was converted to the Nordic Research Opportunity, which is intended to facilitate collaborations between U.S. graduate fellows and scholars at Finnish, Swedish, Danish, and Norwegian research institutions.\n\nThe Graduate Research Fellowship was first awarded in 1952, with the goal of encouraging basic scientific research and ensuring comprehensive, competitive research programs for U.S. students. Since 1952, the NSF has funded over 46,500 Graduate Research Fellowships out of over 500,000 applicants. Many former graduate fellows have gone on to become Nobel laureates and members of the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nThe competition is open to senior undergraduate students as well as new graduate students in their first or second years of graduate study.\n\nIn order to apply, the applicant must submit biographical information, undergraduate and graduate transcripts where applicable, at least three letters of recommendation, and two essays: a personal statement with past research experience and a research proposal.\n\nApplications are typically due in early November, with different deadlines for different scientific fields. Letters of recommendation are typically due in mid November. Fellows and students selected for Honorable Mention are usually notified in April of the year following their application. Together, the Fellows and Honorable Mention students make up about the top 30% of applicants.\n\nThe grant is administered through the institution the student is attending. The grant's funding can be postponed for up to two 12-month increments as long as the recipient continues to engage in work leading to the eligible graduate degree. For instance, a recipient might postpone the grant's funding while working as a teaching assistant or research assistant. This is referred to as \"reserve\". On the third year of reserve, the recipient will automatically forfeit any remaining years of tenure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2955559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2955559", "title": "Natalie Turner", "text": "Natalie Turner\n\nNatalie Turner is a Canadian animator, effects animator, and animation professor.\n\nTurner's career started in 1989, when she was hired by Sullivan Bluth Studios as a special effects assistant, working on animated feature films \"A Troll in Central Park\" and \"Rock-A-Doodle\". She then moved on to Nelvana in 1991, to work as a character assistant for the television series \"Rupert\" and the \"Cloud Pilot\".\n\nFrom Nelvana, Turner moved on to feature films, working as a character assistant on \"Titan AE\", and an effect assistant on \"Space Jam\" for Warner Brothers Animation, \"\" at Disney's Toronto animation studios, and \"\" for Warner Brothers Animation.\n\nTurner is currently a professor for the Classical Animation program at Sheridan College in Oakville. Previously she taught for Max the Mutt Animation School in Toronto. She will teach the fifth year of the Animex (Animation Exploration) workshop at Visual Arts Brampton Creative Studio.\n\n"}
{"id": "39509603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39509603", "title": "National Centre for Universities and Business", "text": "National Centre for Universities and Business\n\nThe National Centre for Universities and Business (NCUB) develops, promotes and supports collaboration between universities and business across the UK.\n\nNCUB is headed by David Docherty (Chief Executive) and Richard Greenhalgh (Chair). NCUB’s Leadership Council includes many of the UK’s most successful businesses and universities.\n\nPrior to NCUB, the Council for Industry and Higher Education (CIHE), was born in 1986 from the collaboration of James Prior, John Cassels and Pauline Perry. Pauline (at that time the Chief Inspector of Schools at the Department for Education) had heard about an American organisation that had managed to bring businesses and universities closer together. John (as Director General of the National Economic Development Office) was a believer in the power of partnership while Jim Prior was a recent Cabinet member and the new chairman of GEC. He agreed to invite the heads of a range of businesses, universities and polytechnics to a couple of initial discussions to see if there was indeed a common cause that might be addressed through a partnership approach.\n\nIn 2013, in response to the Wilson Review CIHE was replaced by the National Centre for Universities and Business (NCUB).\n"}
{"id": "47016972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47016972", "title": "Pavel Chernyshev", "text": "Pavel Chernyshev\n\nPavel Feoktistovich Chernyshev was born around 1854 in Samara, in the Empire of Russia, to noble parents.\n\nBy 1874, Chernyshev was a medical student at the Medical and Surgical Academy in St. Petersburg. While a student, he helped organize and served as treasurer for the Samartsy, a populist St. Petersburg student society. He took part in the \"Going to the People\" movement, and it is for this participation that he was arrested by authorities on August 30, 1874 and incarcerated shortly thereafter. He was released on bail on March 11, 1876; having contracted tuberculosis while in prison, he died in a hospital soon after his release.\n\nChernyshev's primary claims to fame are his imprisonment, death, and funeral, all of which occurred over about 18 months from his arrest to his funeral on March 30, 1876. The funeral at Volkovo Cemetery became the seed of a large populist anti-government demonstration, and the composer Grigori A. Machtet wrote the poem \"The Last Farewell\" (literally \"Succumbed to the ordeal of imprisonment\") in his memory. The poem lives on as the lyrics to the song \"Slavery and Suffering,\" (\"Esclavage et souffrance\") which has been performed by the Red Army Choir and was a popular revolutionary song.\n"}
{"id": "3350021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3350021", "title": "Racket (programming language)", "text": "Racket (programming language)\n\nRacket (formerly PLT Scheme) is a general-purpose, multi-paradigm programming language in the Lisp-Scheme family. One of its design goals is to serve as a platform for language creation, design, and implementation. The language is used in a variety of contexts such as scripting, general-purpose programming, computer science education, and research.\n\nThe platform provides an implementation of the Racket language (including a sophisticated run-time system, various libraries, JIT compiler, and more) along with an integrated development environment (IDE) named DrRacket (formerly named DrScheme) written in Racket. The IDE, and an accompanying programming curriculum, is used in the ProgramByDesign outreach program, an attempt to turn computing and programming into \"an indispensable part of the liberal arts curriculum\". The core language is known for its extensive macro system which enables creating embedded and domain-specific languages, language constructs such as classes or modules, and separate dialects of Racket with different semantics.\n\nThe platform distribution is free and open-source software distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL)\nlicense. Extensions and packages written by the community are uploaded to Racket's centralized package catalog.\n\nMatthias Felleisen founded PLT in the mid 1990s, first as a research group, soon after as a project dedicated to producing pedagogic materials for novice programmers (lectures, exercises/projects, software). In January 1995, the group decided to develop a pedagogic programming environment based on Scheme. Matthew Flatt cobbled together MrEd, the original virtual machine for Racket, from libscheme, wxWidgets, and a few other free systems. In the years that followed, a team including Flatt, Robby Findler, Shriram Krishnamurthi, Cormac Flanagan, and many others produced DrScheme, a programming environment for novice Scheme programmers and a research environment for soft typing. The main development language that DrScheme supported was named PLT Scheme.\n\nIn parallel, the team began conducting workshops for high school teachers, training them in program design and functional programming. Field tests with these teachers and their students provided essential clues for directing the development.\n\nOver the following years, PLT added teaching languages, an algebraic stepper, a transparent read–eval–print loop, a constructor-based printer, and many other innovations to DrScheme, producing an application-quality pedagogic program development environment. By 2001, the core team (Felleisen, Findler, Flatt, Krishnamurthi) had also written and published their first textbook, \"How to Design Programs\", based on their teaching philosophy.\n\nThe first generation of PLT Scheme revisions introduced features for programming in the large with both modules and classes. Version 42 introduced units – a first-class module system – to complement classes for large scale development. The class system gained features (e.g. Java-style interfaces) and also lost several features (e.g. multiple inheritance) throughout these versions. The language evolved throughout a number of successive versions, and gaining milestone popularity in Version 53, leading to extensive work and the following Version 100, which would be equivalent to a \"1.0\" release in current popular version systems.\n\nThe next major revision was named Version 200, which introduced a new default module system that cooperates with macros. In particular, the module system ensures that run-time and compile-time computation are separated to support a \"tower of languages\". Unlike units, these modules are not first-class objects.\n\nVersion 300 introduced Unicode support, foreign library support, and refinements to the class system. Later on, the 300 series improved the performance of the language runtime with an addition of a JIT compiler and a switch to a default generational garbage collection.\n\nBy the next major release, the project had switched to a more conventional sequence-based version numbering. Version 4.0 introduced the codice_1 shorthand to specify the language that a module is written in. Further, the revision introduced immutable pairs and lists, support for fine-grained parallelism, and a statically-typed dialect.\n\nThe upcoming version 7 of Racket is intended to have a new macro expander written in Racket and is being built on Chez Scheme.\n\nOn June 7, 2010, PLT Scheme was renamed Racket. The renaming coincided with the release of Version 5.0. Subsequently, the graphical user interface (GUI) backend was rewritten in Racket from C++ in Version 5.1 using native UI toolkits on all platforms. Version 5.2 included a background syntax checking tool, a new plotting library, a database library, and a new extended REPL. Version 5.3 included a new submodule feature for optionally loaded modules, new optimization tools, a JSON library, and other features. Version 5.3.1 introduced major improvements to DrRacket: the background syntax checker was turned on by default and a new documentation preview tool was added.\n\nIn version 6.0, Racket released its second-generation package management system. As part of this development, the principal DrRacket and Racket repository was reorganized and split into a large set of small packages, making it possible to install a \"minimal racket\" and to install only those packages needed.\n\nRacket's core language includes macros, modules, lexical closures, tail calls, delimited continuations, parameters (fluid variables), software contracts, green and OS threads, and more. The language also comes with primitives, such as eventspaces and custodians, which control resource management and enables the language to act like an operating system for loading and managing other programs. Further extensions to the language are created with the powerful macro system, which together with the module system and custom parsers can control all aspects of a language. Unlike programming languages that lack macro systems, most language constructs in Racket are written on the base language using macros. These include a mixin class system, a component (or module) system as expressive as ML's opaque ascription, and pattern matching.\n\nFurther, the language features the first contract system for a higher-order programming language.\nRacket's contract system is inspired by the Design by Contract work for Eiffel and extends it to work for higher-order values such as first-class functions, objects, reference cells, and so on. For example, an object that is checked by a contract can be ensured to make contract checks when its methods are eventually invoked.\n\nRacket's compiler is a bytecode compiler that translates to an internal bytecode format that is run by the Racket virtual machine. On x86 and PowerPC platforms, the bytecode is further compiled using a JIT compiler at runtime.\n\nSince 2004, the language has also shipped with PLaneT, a package manager that is integrated into the module system so that third-party libraries can be transparently imported and used. Also, PLaneT has a built-in versioning policy to prevent dependency hell.\n\nAt the end of 2014, much of Racket's code was moved into a new packaging system separate from the main code base. This new packaging system is serviced by a client program named \"raco\". The new package system provides fewer features than PLaneT; a blog post by Jay McCarthy on the Racket blog explains the rationale for the change and how to duplicate the older system.\n\nThe feature that distinguishes Racket from other languages in the Lisp family is its integrated language extensibility. Racket's extensibility features are built into the module system to allow context-sensitive and module-level control over syntax. For example, the codice_2 syntactic form can be overridden to change the semantics of function application. Similarly, the codice_3 form allows arbitrary static analysis of the entire module. Since any module can be used as a language, via the codice_1 notation, this effectively means that virtually any aspect of the language can be programmed and controlled.\n\nThe module-level extensibility features are combined with a Scheme-like hygienic macro system, which provides more features than Lisp's s-expression manipulation system, Scheme 84's hygienic extend-syntax macros, or R5RS's syntax-rules. Indeed, it is fair to say that the macro system is a carefully tuned application programming interface (API) for compiler extensions. Using this compiler API, programmers can add features and entire domain-specific languages in a manner that makes them completely indistinguishable from built-in language constructs.\n\nThe macro system in Racket has been used to construct entire language dialects. This includes Typed Racket—a statically typed dialect of Racket that eases the migration from untyped to typed code, and Lazy Racket—a dialect with lazy evaluation.\nOther dialects include FrTime (functional reactive programming), Scribble (documentation language), Slideshow (presentation language), and several languages for education. Racket's core distribution provides libraries to aid the process of constructing new programming languages.\n\nSuch languages are not restricted to s-expression based syntax. In addition to conventional readtable-based syntax extensions, Racket's codice_1 makes it possible for a language programmer to define any arbitrary parser, for example, using the parser tools library. See Racket logic programming for an example of such a language.\n\nThe language platform provides a self-hosted IDE named DrRacket, a continuation-based web server, a graphical user interface, and other tools. Racket is also a viable scripting tool and can be used for scripting the Unix shell. It can parse command line arguments, execute external tools and includes libraries like all common scripting languages.\n\nDrRacket (formerly DrScheme) is widely used among introductory computer science courses that teach Scheme or Racket and is lauded for its simplicity and appeal to beginner programmers. The IDE was originally built for use with the TeachScheme! project (now ProgramByDesign), an outreach effort by Northeastern University and a number of affiliated universities for attracting high school students to computer science courses at the college level.\n\nThe editor provides source highlighting for syntax and run-time errors, parenthesis matching, a debugger and an algebraic stepper. Its student-friendly features include support for multiple \"language levels\" (Beginning Student, Intermediate Student and so on). It also has integrated library support, and sophisticated analysis tools for advanced programmers. Further, module-oriented programming is supported with the module browser, a contour view, integrated testing and coverage measurements, and refactoring support. It provides integrated, context-sensitive access to an extensive hyper-linked help system named \"Help Desk\".\n\nDrRacket is available for Windows (95 and up), macOS, Unix, and Linux with the X Window System and programs behave similarly on all these platforms.\n\nHere's a trivial hello world program:\n\nRunning this program produces the output:\n\nHere's a slightly less trivial program:\nThis program, taken from the Racket website, draws a Sierpinski triangle, nested to depth 8.\n\nUsing the codice_1 directive, a source file can be written in different dialects of Racket. Here is an example of the factorial program in Typed Racket, a statically typed dialect of Racket:\n\nApart from having a basis in programming language theory, Racket was designed to be used as a general-purpose language in production systems. Thus, the Racket distribution features an extensive library that covers systems and network programming, web development, a uniform interface to the underlying operating system, a dynamic foreign function interface, several flavours of regular expressions, lexer/parser generators, logic programming, and a complete GUI framework.\n\nRacket has several features useful for a commercial language, among them an ability to generate standalone executables under Windows, macOS, and Unix, a profiler and debugger included in the integrated development environment (IDE), and a unit testing framework.\n\nRacket has been used for commercial projects and web applications. A notable example is the Hacker News website, which runs on Arc, which is developed in Racket. Naughty Dog has used it as a scripting language in several of their video games.\n\nRacket is used to teach students algebra through game design in the Bootstrap program.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41933520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41933520", "title": "Research Object", "text": "Research Object\n\nIn computing, a Research Object is a method for the identification, aggregation and exchange of scholarly information on the Web. The primary goal of the research object approach is to provide a mechanism to associate together related resources about a scientific investigation so that they can be shared together using a single identifier. As such, research objects are an advanced form of Enhanced publication.\n\nCurrent implementations build upon existing Web technologies and methods including Linked Data, HTTP, Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs), the Open Archives Initiative Object Reuse and Exchange (OAI-ORE) and the Open Annotation model, as well as existing approaches for identification and knowledge representation in the scientific domain including Digital Object Identifiers for documents, ORCID identifiers for people, and the Investigation, Study, and Assay (ISA) data model.\n\nThe research object approach is primarily motivated by a desire to improve reproducibility of scientific investigations. Central to the proposal is need to share research artifacts commonly distributed across specialist repositories on the Web including supporting data, software executables, source code, presentation slides, presentation videos. Research Objects are not one specific technology but are instead guided by a set of principles. Specifically research objects are guided by three principles of identity, aggregation and annotation\n\n\nA number of communities are an actively developing the research object concept.\n\nA W3C community group entitled the Research Objects for Scholarly Communication (ROSC) Community Group was started in April 2013. The community charter states that the goals of the ROSC activity are: \"to exchange requirements and expectations for supporting a new form of scholarly communication\"\n\nThe Community Group aims to produce the following types of deliverables:\n\n\nThe Mozilla Science Lab have initiated an activity in collaboration with GitHub and Figshare to develop \"Code as research object\". The initial proposal of the activity is to allow users to transfer code from a GitHub repository to figshare, and provide that code with a Digital Object Identifier (DOI), providing a permanent record of the code that can be cited in future publications.\n"}
{"id": "2336347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336347", "title": "Rosetta Stone (software)", "text": "Rosetta Stone (software)\n\nRosetta Stone Language Learning is proprietary computer-assisted language learning (CALL) software published by Rosetta Stone Inc. The software uses images, text, and sound to teach words and grammar by spaced repetition, without translation. Rosetta Stone calls its approach Dynamic Immersion™.\n\nThe software's name and logo allude to the an ancient stone slab of the same name on which the Decree of Memphis is inscribed in three writing systems.\n\nIn a Rosetta Stone Language Learning exercise, the student pairs sound or text to one of several images. The number of images per screen varies.\n\nFor example, the software shows the student four photographs. A native speaker makes a statement that describes one of the photographs, and the statement is printed on the screen; the student chooses the photograph that the speaker described. In another variation, the student completes a textual description of a photograph.\n\nIn writing exercises, the software provides an on-screen keyboard for the user to type characters that are not in the Latin alphabet.\n\nGrammar lessons cover grammatical tense and grammatical mood. In grammar lessons, the program firstly shows the learner several examples of a grammatical concept, and in some levels the word or words the learner should focus on are highlighted. Then the learner is given a sentence with several options for a word or phrase, and the student chooses the correct option.\n\nIf the student has a microphone, the software can attempt to evaluate word pronunciation.\n\nEach lesson concludes with a review of the content in that lesson, and each unit concludes with a milestone, which is a simulated conversation that includes the content of the unit.\n\nThe program immediately informs whether the answer is right or wrong. Through the Preferences screen, the student can choose whether a sound is played or not when an answer is clicked. At the bottom of the window, the program shows all the screens for the current lesson. If all answers for that screen are correct, the button for that screen turns green. If some answers are correct, the border of the button turns green, but the screen number itself turns orange. If all answers for a screen are wrong, the button turns orange. This applies to all lessons except review and milestone lessons, which are treated as tests. In those lessons, the buttons for each screen all remain brown. In all lessons there is a button in the bottom-right of the window which can be hovered over to display how many answers are correct, wrong or have not been answered. Each time an answer is clicked, one point is given. At the end of the lesson, the total number of correct, wrong or skipped answers is shown alongside the percentage of correct answers for that lesson. If too many questions were answered incorrectly, the program suggests the learner should retry the lesson.\n\nTo use Rosetta Stone Language Learning, a student needs the Rosetta Stone application software and at least one level of a language pack. The latest major version of Rosetta Stone is Rosetta Stone Language Learning 5.0.13.\n\nLanguage packs also have version numbers. The version number of the language pack is distinct from the version numbering scheme of the Rosetta Stone application, and a language pack is only compatible with specific versions of the application. Version 4 and 5 are backward compatible with language packs developed for Version 3, but not older ones.\n\nBy the end of 1996, Rosetta Stone Version 1 had a selection of nine level-one language courses (Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Mandarin Chinese, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish) and four level-two courses (English, French, German, Spanish). A CD-ROM product called The Rosetta Stone PowerPac featured introductory versions of seven of the courses.\n\nAt this time, Fairfield Language Technologies had already begun development of the Arabic, Esperanto, Hebrew, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Swahili, Thai, and Vietnamese courses. Within a few months, the Japanese, Thai, and Vietnamese courses were complete, and development of Latin, Polish, and Welsh courses were underway. The Latin course was the next to be completed, followed by Hebrew. In this fashion, Fairfield introduced new courses to market gradually.\n\nRosetta Stone Version 1 was developed for Macintosh System 6 and higher, and Windows 3.0 and higher. Later revisions of Version 1 for Macintosh required System 7. The final revision of Version 1 was v1.9.\n\nAt Version 2, Fairfield continued to add more language courses, but also marketed more editions of The Rosetta Stone software.\n\nThe PowerPac CD-ROM introduced in Version 1 now featured basic lessons in seven languages. One complete level of a language course was now called a Personal Edition of the software.\n\nBecause many consumers found The Rosetta Stone to be too expensive, Fairfield started a series of \"Explorer\" editions. An Explorer CD-ROM was a lower-cost excerpt of a Version 2 course. Each edition of the Rosetta Stone Explorer series (Japanese Explorer, Welsh Explorer, etc.) included three units (22 lessons) from Level 1. The company no longer sells Explorer editions.\n\nThen there was Global Traveler, a CD-ROM and electronic translation dictionary package for people requiring some facility in English, French, Spanish, Italian, or German. The lessons on the CD-ROM teach words and phrases for travelers. The electronic translator was programmed with about 60,000 words and 720 phrases.\n\nThe Rosetta Stone v2.0.x is backward compatible with some of the later language packs for Version 1; specifically languages courses with a version number of 3.0 or 4.0.x.\n\nThe Rosetta Stone v2.1 through v2.2.x are only compatible with v6.x language courses. These versions of the language packs and software engine are neither backward compatible nor forward compatible. Language discs developed for The Rosetta Stone v2.0.x are incompatible with these later revisions of the software.\n\nIn v2.1.4.1A of The Rosetta Stone, the program began using copy protection software called SafeDisc.\n\nRosetta Stone Version 3 is not backward compatible with language packs developed for Rosetta Stone Versions 1 or 2.\n\nVersion 3 was initially released in August 2007 for ten bestselling languages, with other languages following later on. The final revision of Version 3 is v3.4.7.r1.\n\nHomeschool Edition introduces additional features that keep track of time spent per lesson, scores achieved on lessons, lesson plans, and instructional objectives. This edition includes a supplemental CD-ROM that has workbooks, quizzes, lesson transcripts, and exams.\n\nUnlike the Personal Edition, the Homeschool Edition application does not recommend reviews. Aside from the minor differences, the homeschool edition is essentially the same as the personal edition—except for the supplemental CD with written exercises and lesson plans. The language discs in the two editions are identical and are interchangeable. Some may have 3 discs and some may have 5. Much of the information on the supplemental CD-ROM is available online from Rosetta Stone.\n\nVersion 4 is backward compatible with all language packs developed for Version 3.\n\nRosetta Stone released Version 4 TOTALe on September 14, 2010. TOTALe is a software suite comprising Rosetta Course, Rosetta Studio, Rosetta World, and TOTALe Mobile Companion. Users of the Rosetta Studio software subscribe to a service that videoconferences them with a language coach. Rosetta World is a social gaming service. TOTALe Mobile Companion is a Rosetta Stone mobile app for iOS and Android devices.\n\nWith Version 4, Rosetta Stone adds stricter copy protection measures.\n\nRosetta Stone released Version 5 on October 9, 2014. The notable changes are the change in brand name (\"Rosetta Course\" has become \"Language Training\"), a new interactive demo is built into the application based on user feedback and a new minimalist UI with no beveled edges or drop shadows.\n\nThe software is offered in three variants\n\n\n\n\nRosetta Stone’s Discover Languages is an app currently only available on Xbox One. It is very different from the traditional design, involving a virtual world and more of a focus on games in order to appeal more strongly to game playing audiences. The only languages currently supported are English and Spanish.\n\n, there are 28 Language Training courses offered by Rosetta. Each language course requires either its own language pack, offered through CD-ROMs or downloads, or online subscription.\n\n\n\nThe language courses are divided into three to five levels offered as language packs either in CD-ROMs or Download. In the retail software packages of Rosetta Stone, each CD-ROM has one level.\n\nAll languages, except Latin, use mostly the same set of words and sentences in almost the same order, with mainly the same images. Some of the material is reused from lesson to lesson to invoke long-term retention.\n\nIn version 3 pack, there are four units per language level. Each unit has four core lessons that are about 30 minutes long. The student then moves on to one of the following lesson modes: Pronunciation, Writing, Vocabulary, Grammar, Listening, Reading, Speaking. The Milestone is an exercise at the end of each unit in which students apply what they learned in the unit.\n\nIn Rosetta Stone version 2 Language Packs, most lessons have two levels; a few have three.\n\nThe first eight units have 84 lessons, plus eight reviews. The lessons reiterate simple vocabulary and grammatical tenses. The lessons conclude with a unit on giving directions.\n\nUnits 1–4 have 10 lessons and one review. Units 5–8 have 11 lessons and a review.\n\nThe 11 units of Level 2 include a total of 118 lessons. The lessons in the first nine units have a format similar to those in Level 1. The final two units are \"Glossary\" units devoted to single words pertaining to a particular topic, such as school, nature, or automobiles.\n\nLevel 2 units cover more advanced grammar, as well as preparation for common situations, such as banking, shopping, and tourism. Short videos (in QuickTime format) illustrate some verbs.\n\nUnits 16 and 17 use single-panel comics from the \"Saturday Evening Post\" as a teaching tool.\n\nLevel 3 expands on Level 2 with longer videos and written passages.\n\nRosetta Stone version 3 Language Pack has 3–5 levels. The lessons differ by language. Compared with Version 2, Version 3 lessons focus more on conversation and less on grammar rules.\n\nIn level one, each unit has a 30-minute lesson and some activities that are five to fifteen minutes long. Level 1 takes up to 24 hours to complete.\n\nStarting from simple vocabulary such as basic greetings, \"boy\", \"girl\", \"man\", and \"woman\", moving up through numbers, comparisons, adjectives, nouns, verb conjugation, and telling time. Each unit also contains a ten-minute simulated conversation called a \"Milestone\".\n\nThe units are: Language Basics, Greetings and Introductions, Work and School, and Shopping.\n\nLevel 2 offers a total of about twenty-four hours designed to teach the user to \"navigate your surroundings as you build on the vocabulary and essential language structure in Level 1.\" More grammar is covered, including past and future tenses, and imperative forms. Topics such as giving directions, writing letters, workplace terms, apologies, discussing emotions, and criticizing art are also covered. As in Level 1, each unit is followed by a ten-minute \"Milestone\".\n\nThe four units in Level 2 are Travel, Past and Future, Friends and Social Life, and Dining and Vacation.\n\nLevel 3 offers instruction designed to help \"connect with the world around you by building on the language fundamentals and conversational skills you developed in Levels 1 and 2.\" In addition to expanding upon grammar learned in Levels 1 and 2, Level 3 teaches more in depth vocabulary, including botanical terms, culinary terms, how to express detailed opinions and judgments, and how to discuss politics, religion, and business. As in the first two levels, each unit contains a ten-minute \"Milestone\" activity in which the user participates in a simulated conversation.\n\nThe four units in Level 3 are Home and Health, Life and World, Everyday Things, and Places and Events.\n\nThe four units are Tourism and Recreation, Professions and Hobbies, At Home and Around Town, and Style and Personal Wellness.\n\nThe five units are Business and Industry, Arts and Academics, Emergency Situations, and Family and Community.\n\nLevels 4 and 5 teach more complex sentence structures, higher verbal tenses, and more irregular verbs, and introduce more vocabulary.\n\nOn 9 June 2008, Rosetta Stone introduced an addition to its Version 3 product line: Audio Companion, supplemental audio recordings of words and phrases. The student is meant to repeat the spoken words and phrases for practice and memorization. Unlike recordings based on the Pimsleur method, the Audio Companion provides neither narration nor translations. Rosetta Stone distributes the audio supplements on audio CD and as MP3 files. Each Audio Companion supplements one level of the language course, and each disc supplements a specific unit. Complete Version 4 course packages include Audio Companion material for each level.\n\nThe Endangered Language Program was created in 2004 for use by endangered language communities engaged in language revitalization.\n\nOrganizations that contract the Endangered Language Program to develop custom software own the sales and distribution rights over their final product, allowing communities control over this language resource and respecting indigenous intellectual property rights. These versions are thus not marketed via the usual outlets such as bookstores or commercial websites.\n\nBased in Harrisonburg, Virginia, the Endangered Language Program began offering a corporate grant program in 2007 to underwrite development costs for awarded communities. Rosetta Stone Inc. offered the first awards of the grant program to the Chitimacha Tribe of Louisiana and the Navajo Language Renaissance coalition.\n\nThe Endangered Language Program also offers paid internships to graduate and undergraduate students interested in contributing to the work of the program.\n\nIn November 2015 the Chickasaw Nation, through the Chickasaw Language Revitalization Program established in 2007, contracted with Rosetta Stone to customize language learning content to preserve and introduce the Chickasaw language to its 60,000+ members worldwide. This effort comes as the Chickasaw Nation has approximately 50 native speakers remaining, with its last monolingual speaker having died in 2013.\n\nFrequent criticism of the program arises in its lack of sensitivity to the differences between the various languages it comes in and their respective cultures. Early versions of the software presented the same concepts in the same order, using the same images taken mostly in the Washington, D.C. area near the company's headquarters at the time in Harrisonburg, Virginia. In the most recent version, there have been some modifications to the picture set for certain languages or regions.\n\nAnother frequent issue was the use of more formal vocabulary than that regularly used by native speakers. In 2006, \"Macworld\" reviewer Cyrus Farivar noted that his Persian CD used \"khodrow\" for \"car\", although most native speakers use a French loanword, \"ma:sheen\". The same course did not teach words that would be important to someone learning Persian, such as \"bread\" and \"tea\"; however, it very curiously included the word \"elephant\" in a basic vocabulary lesson. Perplexed by the question of why the word \"elephant\" would be taught in a language where it might never be used (there are not many elephants in Iran), Farivar called Rosetta Stone, Inc. He was told that the company makes four different picture sets: one for Western languages, another for Asian languages, and two sets unique to each Swahili and Latin. The Persian language CD was using the Western picture set, which explains why the images were not culturally relevant.\n\nWriting in 1997, Donald McRae of Brock University said that Rosetta Stone represented \"good pedagogy\" and that \"the authors of the program never lose sight of solid teaching methodology\". He described the Version 2 German language course as \"very good\", but indicated that he had \"some reservations\".\n\nIn a 1997 review of the Version 2 Russian language course, Mark Kaiser, director of the Language Media Center at the University of California, Berkeley, called the program \"woefully inadequate for a number of reasons\".\n\nOne of Kaiser's observations was that Rosetta Stone software fails to provide a relevant cultural context. Because the company uses the same stock photographs for all its language courses, they depict people, activities, and manufactured goods that are conspicuously American. Kaiser also found that Rosetta Stone Version 2 does not provide a way for students to evaluate their conversation skills, and that some of the words and phrases are too English-based.\n\n\"The entire package lacks any pedagogical foundation,\" he concluded. \"Rather, it utilizes the glitz of the multimedia capabilities of the computer, a dearth of quality foreign language software, and clever marketing to create an economically successful product.\"\n\nBrendan Lewis, a world traveler, made similar observations in his critique nearly 14 years later.\n\nThe language-learning specialist Stephen Krashen found that the few studies on the software produced learning results that were \"about as effective as traditional instruction on traditional tests.\"\n\nThe user purchases a licence to use the software, which is non-transferable. Up to five members of a household may use a single licence.\n\n\n\n\nIn December 2007, the United States Army offered a special military version of Arabic to help troops deploying to the Middle East learn the language for conversations and phrases important in a military situation. It was available to all US Army personnel, US Military Academy cadets, contracted US Army ROTC Cadets and other special guests with a sponsor.\n\nThe United States Army \"E-Learning\", a SkillPort product, offered the full Version 3 Online, with the exception of only a few languages. The Army E-Learning web site was accessible by most Army members with a valid AKO (Army Knowledge Online) e-mail address or CAC (Common Access Card).\n\nRosetta Stone's Army contract ended on September 24, 2011.\n\nOther branches of the U.S military also offered Rosetta Stone software. The United States Air Force also offers a similar version to company-grade officers. The United States Marine Corps also offers an online version of all the languages that Rosetta Stone offers through their MarineNet Distance Learning portal.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State uses Rosetta Stone (Version 3 as of 2009) as a companion to their in-class and distance learning language programs provided through the Foreign Service Institute. It is free for civil and foreign service employees.\n\nIn April 2011, James Madison University was the first university to partner with Rosetta Stone to offer the Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe as an accredited Conversational Spanish I language learning course. The program teaches Spanish through a series of images that, when clicked on, show the vocabulary word. The student will speak into a microphone and speech recognition software will correct mispronounced words, according to Reilly Brennan, Rosetta Stone's Director of Public Relations. The course is available to adults who want to complete a degree for teaching and non-degree seeking students are eligible to take the class. The Rosetta Stone TOTALe accredited offering is a 16-week, intensive language-learning program. The program is accessed completely online and follows a syllabus approved by Rosetta Stone and James Madison University.\n\n"}
{"id": "6946960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6946960", "title": "Rowan Moore", "text": "Rowan Moore\n\nRowan Moore is an architecture critic. He is the brother of the journalist and newspaper editor Charles Moore. He trained as an architect at Cambridge, but, having gone into practice, turned to journalism. He has been editor of the architecture journal \"Blueprint\", and has written for the \"Evening Standard\" (London) and \"The Guardian.\" In 2002 he succeeded Lucy Musgrave as director of the Architecture Foundation, leaving to concentrate on journalism full-time in 2008. That directorship is now held by Sarah Ichioka.\n\n"}
{"id": "28364627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28364627", "title": "Rutherford Memorial Lecture (Royal Society)", "text": "Rutherford Memorial Lecture (Royal Society)\n\nThe Rutherford Memorial Lecture is an international lecture of the Royal Society created under the Rutherford Memorial Scheme in 1952. It is held at universities in various countries in the Commonwealth, with a stipulation that at least one of every three lectures must be held in New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "4774303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4774303", "title": "Saint George's College, Santiago", "text": "Saint George's College, Santiago\n\nSaint George's College, founded in 1936 and run by the Congregation of Holy Cross, is among the most exclusive and upper-class schools in Santiago, Chile. According to Seminarium Head Hunting, fully one third of the CEO's of the top 200 companies in Chile are graduates of the school.\n\nThree Holy Cross priests arrived in Santiago, Chile, on March 1, 1943, at the invitation of Cardinal José María Caro, Archbishop of Santiago (Chile), to administer Saint George's College. Fathers William Havey, Alfred Send, and Joseph Doherty believed they were going to do university work. Little did they know that \"college\" in this context meant a school of first through 12th graders.\n\nToday, Saint George's College serves 2,650 students. Its history is rich and is closely tied with the history of Chile, including the 1970s when the school was taken over by the military government and Holy Cross was ousted. St. George's was the only private school in Chile to be taken over by military authority following the September 1973, coup. The Congregation returned to the school in 1986. Strong faith formation and service have been a hallmark of Saint George's. Over the decades, the college has formed many influential leaders in Chilean society. Also Holy Cross' first Chilean vocation, Fr. Jorge Canepa, was a 1946 graduate of the school.\n\nOriginally an all-boys school, Saint George's College was made co-educational in 1973. First located in the then-exclusive Pedro de Valdivia section of Providencia, in 1970 it was relocated to Vitacura. Academically, its students have consistently ranked in the top 20 in terms of mean and average college entrance exam scores. \n\nIts traditional rival schools are Colegio del Verbo Divino and Colegio San Ignacio, which were originally located near one another in the Pedro de Valdivia neighborhood of Providencia. Its traditional sister school was Colegio Santa Úrsula (\"Ursulinas\"), which was originally next door to St. George's in Providencia\n\nA splinter group of parents and teachers, dissatisfied with the Liberation Theology measures imposed by Father Gerard Whelan (known locally as the Padre Gerardo) during the early 1970s, broke off in 1972 and formed Colegio Tabancura, an Opus Dei-run boys' school. Since then, St. George's College has had a reputation for social and political activism, which is unusual among the group of exclusive schools of Santiago, and the generally conservative Chilean upper-class.\n\nAmong Saint George's College's internationally renowned alumni are José Miguel Insulza (Class of '61, Socialist politician, Secretary General of the Organization of American States), Andrés Pascal Allende (Class of '62, Marxist revolutionary), Andrés Wood (Class of '83, film director/producer, who directed the film Machuca, a fictionalized account of Saint George's College around the time of the military coup of '73), Gonzalo Lira (Class of '85, author, film director), Marco Enríquez-Ominami (Class of '90, leftist presidential candidate).\n\n"}
{"id": "12401138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12401138", "title": "Special Education Bulgaria", "text": "Special Education Bulgaria\n\nSpecial Education Bulgaria (SEB) () is a community of practice, a professional community, for special education professionals and the parents of students with special needs throughout Bulgaria.\n\nSEB was developed by researchers from Sofia University, Bulgaria and the University of Wollongong, Australia. The purpose of the SEB website is to facilitate the community of practice. It is hoped that such a community will help reduce the sense of isolation felt by young special education teachers and other special education stakeholders in rural areas of Bulgaria. The community is also intended to support special education stakeholders who are separated from their support network across busy cities or by the requirements of daily living.\n\n"}
{"id": "52943189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52943189", "title": "The Universe for Beginners", "text": "The Universe for Beginners\n\nThe Universe for Beginners, republished as Introducing the Universe, is a 1993 graphic study guide to cosmology written by Felix Pirani and illustrated by Christine Roche. The volume, according to the publisher's website, \"recounts the revolutions in physics and astronomy,\" from \"Aristotle to Newton,\" and, \"Einstein to Quantum Mechanics,\" \"that underlie the present-day picture of the universe.\"\n\nThis volume was originally published in the UK by Icon Books in 1993 as \"The Universe for Beginners\", and subsequently republished with different covers as \"Introducing the Universe\" and \"Introducing the Universe: A Graphic Guide\".\n\nEditions:\n\nRelated volumes in the series:\n\nNorwegian philosopher Finngeir Hiorth states that the book, like it's companion volume, \"Stephen Hawking for Beginners\", starts with, \"historical passages dealing with earlier ideas about the Universe,\" before, \"bringing the story up-to-date.\" Pirani's text is, according to Hiorth, \"written in a simple and easily understandable language with a minimum of formulas,\" with terminology, \"always explained.\" \"[P]rofusely illustrated.\" by Roche, the volume is, Hiorth concludes, \"like comics or funnies,\" where, \"quite a lot of the information is formulated in an entertaining way.\"\n"}
{"id": "19352541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19352541", "title": "Trampoline Hall", "text": "Trampoline Hall\n\nTrampoline Hall is a barroom lecture series started by Canadian author Sheila Heti in Toronto. It has been sold out consistently since 2001.\n\nTrampoline Hall is held every month at The Garrison. The program consists of three talks each followed by a question-and-answer period, and is hosted by improv teacher and consultant Misha Glouberman.\n\nLecturers may speak on any subject from the mundane to the arcane, but are forbidden to speak on any area in which they are professionally expert. As a result, talks vary from the well-informed to the unstructured, with the lecturer's level of comfort and degree of preparation emerging as part of the \"performance\". Over a few months in 2010-2011, representative topics included \"The History of 3D,\" \"Suicide Notes,\" \"Cultural Entropy in the Internet Era,\" \"The Perfect Baguette,\" and \"Being an Asshole.\"\n\nThe show went on a 10-city tour of the US in 2002 and has played numerous shows in New York and San Francisco. It has been written about favourably in The New Yorker, The Village Voice, the National Post, the Globe and Mail, and other publications.\n\n"}
{"id": "47297197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47297197", "title": "Walter Zanger", "text": "Walter Zanger\n\nWalter Zanger (), was an American-born Israeli author, tour guide and television personality. He was a contributor to newspapers, encyclopedias and magazines, and served as a member of the editorial board of the Jewish Bible Society.\n\nWalter Zanger was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1935. He moved with his family to Jerusalem, Israel in 1966 and resided in the city's Ein Karem neighborhood until his death in 2015.\n\nZanger graduated from Amherst College with a Bachelor of Arts \"cum laude\" in 1956.\n\nHe then studied at the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in New York, graduating with a Bachelor of Hebrew Letters in 1958. Zanger was also a student at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He received a Masters of Arts from the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion and was ordained as a Reform rabbi in 1962.\n\nZanger served as the rabbi of the Harford County Jewish Center in Aberdeen, Maryland from 1959–61 and as the rabbi of Temple Sinai in Massapequa, New York from 1961-62. Afterwards, he served as a chaplain (with the rank of captain) in the U.S. Air Force in Southeast Asia from 1962-64.\n\nIn 2000 he officiated the second bar mitzvah of Rabbi Morrison David Bial. Rabbi Bail had officiated Zanger's own bar mitzvah 52 years earlier.\n\nZanger was an assistant to the publisher and contributor to the Encyclopaedia Judaica from 1966-72 and wrote for the Biblical Archaeology Society and the \"Jewish Bible Quarterly\" He authored several books, including \"Jerusalem: Holy City to the World's Religions\" (Great Cities Library) Zanger wrote \"FROM JERUSALEM,\" a personal, non-partisan newsletter addressing current events in Israel.\n\nZanger lectured at the University of South Florida, Amherst College, and at the Jewish Bible Association's Dr. Louis Katzoff Memorial Lecture.\n\nZanger was a licensed Israeli Master Guide. He was an expert at taking Christians and Jews to their sacred places. His expertise as a tour guide led him to become a television personality. He was featured on 11 episodes (1994-1996) of A&E's Mysteries of the Bible as one of Israel's leading guides.\n\nZanger was a recipient of the Ministry of Tourism \"Distinguished Tourism Employee\" award. He received an honorary doctor of divinity from the Hebrew Union College—Jewish Institute of Religion in Jerusalem in 2007. He served in an anti-aircraft battalion in the Israel Defense Forces, and, after his discharge was an active volunteer in the Tourism Unit of the Israel Police.\n\nAt his Amherst College 50th class reunion Zanger wrote \"I always just did whatever seemed the right thing at the time, and it always worked out. My life has been -- by far! -- more luck than brains, and I feel fine about that.\" Walter Zanger died on August 28, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "11525202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11525202", "title": "William Lee Bradley", "text": "William Lee Bradley\n\nThe Reverend Doctor William Lee Bradley (September 6, 1918 – April 29, 2007, born in Oakland, California), was a scholar of comparative religion, ethics, and theology, as well as a philanthropist.\n\nBradley was born in Oakland to Kathryn Lee Culver, an author and artist, and Dwight Jaques Bradley, author and Congregational Church leader. He was raised in El Paso, Texas, Webster Groves, Missouri, and Newton Centre, Massachusetts. In 1947, he married Paula Anne Elliott, later a New Hampshire State Representative (1992–98; 2000–02). He received his B.A. from Oberlin College (1941), B.D. from Andover Newton Theological School (1950), and Ph.D. from University of Edinburgh, Scotland (1949). He was a Sergeant in the United States Army Air Corps in World War II (1942–45), serving in the South Pacific.\n\nA fifth-generation ordained minister in the Congregational Christian Churches (later merging to become the United Church of Christ), he served as a Professor at Hartford Seminary from 1950-1966. He was a visiting Professor at Thammasat University in Bangkok, Thailand for the last three years of his tenure at Hartford. In Bangkok, he served on the field staff of The Rockefeller Foundation and researched his ancestor, the Dr. Dan Beach Bradley, the first medical missionary to Siam and court physician to Siam's King Mongkut and his son, King Chulalongkorn.\n\nAfter his time at Hartford, Bradley took a position at the Rockefeller Foundation as Associate Director for the Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences, from 1966–1971, and was then President of the Edward W. Hazen Foundation in New Haven, Connecticut from 1971-1984. At The Rockefeller Foundation, he was particularly proud of his work assisting emerging playwrights and theatres in the heydey of the Off-Off-Broadway theatre movement in New York City in the late 1960s and early 1970s, assisting such emerging talents as playwrights Julie Bovasso, Maria Irene Fornes, John Guare, Sam Shepard, Ron Whyte, and Lanford Wilson, as well as theatres such as the artistic leadership of producers such as Ellen Stewart (La MaMa Experimental Theatre Company or LaMaMa, E.T.C.), Joseph Papp (New York Shakespeare Festival - The Public Theater), Wyn Handman (The American Place Theatre), Joe Cino (Caffe Cino), and the theatre at St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery. His theatre involvement continued in the 1980s when he served as Chair of the Board of Circle Repertory Company in New York City. As President of the Hazen Foundation, he was known for taking creative philanthropic risks by providing crucial seed funding for innovative programs and organizations that often later attracted substantial funding from larger foundations. The reach and influence of the Hazen Foundation under his leadership therefore was amplified well beyond the value of the grants awarded.\n\nWhile in Connecticut, Bradley also served on the Governor's Commissions on Human Services; Libraries; and Equity and Excellence in Education. Following his retirement from the Hazen Foundation, which he continued to serve as President Emeritus, William and Paula moved to Randolph, New Hampshire, where both became active in that community. Bradley co-founded and served as the first editor of the \"Mountain View\", a quarterly news magazine in Randolph, served as President of the Randolph Foundation from 1991–1996, and continued his lifelong activity in Democratic Party politics on the local and statewide level.\n\nBradley was the author of many articles and several books, including \"P.T. Forsyth: The Man and His Work\", \"The Meaning of Christian Values Today\", \"Introduction to Comparative Religion\", and \"Siam Then: The Foreign Colony in Bangkok Before and After Anna\". He was the coauthor of \"Thailand: Domino By Default?\" He remained active in ministry throughout his career, performing weddings and funerals for several generations of friends and family in the several communities he and Paula called home.\n\nBradley died in Concord, New Hampshire at Havenwood-Heritage Heights Health Services Center on April 29, 2007, of complications from Alzheimer's Disease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25149674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25149674", "title": "World Water Assessment Programme", "text": "World Water Assessment Programme\n\nThe World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) of UNESCO, is a Programme Office on Global Water Assessment. \nIt was founded in 2000 in response to a call from the UN Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) to produce a UN system-wide periodic global overview of the status (quantity and quality), use and management of freshwater resources. To meet this challenge, WWAP coordinates the work of 31 UN-Water members, and 38 international partners under the umbrella mechanism of UN-Water, in the production of the World Water Development Report (WWDR). The WWDR is the UN flagship report on water issues; it is a comprehensive review that gives an overall picture of the state, use and management of the world’s freshwater resources and aims to provide decision-makers with tools to formulate and implement sustainable water policies.\nThe WWDR is released every year with a different focus on different strategic water issues, and it is a comprehensive review that gives an overall picture of the state of freshwater resources around the world, with the aim of providing managers and key decisions-makers with the information, data, tools and skills necessary to enable them to effectively participate in the development of policies. Consequently, WWAP aims to equip water managers and policy- and decision-makers with knowledge, tools and skills necessary to formulate and implement sustainable water policies.\nThe growing global water crisis threatens the security, stability and environmental sustainability of developing but also developed nations. Millions die each year from water-borne diseases, while water pollution and ecosystem destruction aggravate, particularly in the developing world. Over the past few decades there has been an increasing acceptance that the management of water resources must be undertaken with an integrated approach, that assessment of the resource is of fundamental importance as the basis for decision-making and that national capacities to undertake necessary assessments must be fully supported. Management decisions to alleviate poverty, to allow economic development, to ensure food security and the health of human populations as well as preserve vital ecosystems, must be based on our best possible understanding of all relevant systems.\nIn 1998, the Sixth Session of the Commission on Sustainable Development stated that there was a need for regular, global assessments on the status of freshwater resources. In response to this recommendation, the member organizations of UN-Water (known then as the ACC Subcommittee on Water Resources) decided to undertake a collective UN system-wide continuing assessment process. Founded in 2000, the World Water Assessment Programme coordinates the production of the UN World Water Development Report (WWDR), to report on the status of global freshwater resources Initially the periodicity and coverage of the Report was triennial and comprehensive, but in 2012, UN-Water changed this for it to have an annual periodicity and being theme oriented with as purpose to sharpen the focus of the Report on strategic water issues and become more topical. \nRecent and future key themes addressed by the WWDRs are: \n\nThis UNESCO programme aims to equip water managers and policy- and decision-makers with knowledge, tools and skills necessary to formulate and implement sustainable water policies.\nThe Programme's objectives are to:\n\nThe United Nations World Water Development Report\n\nTo face the challenge of providing a global water assessment, WWAP produces the World Water Development Report, the UN flagship report on water issues, released every year, to give an overall picture of the state of water resources. Through a series of assessments the Report provide a mechanism for monitoring changes in the resource and its management and tracking progress towards achieving different targets.\n\nThe basis for the Report springs from the UN Millenium Declaration of 2000, where the international community pledged to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people who are unable to reach, afford safe drinking water and to stop the unsustainable exploitation of water resources by developing water management strategies at local, regional and global level. In 2015, many countries adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDG): a large part of them is dependent upon the access to safe and sufficient water.\nAs such, the World Water Development Report is part of an ongoing worldwide assessment project that is taking stock of past actions, present challenges and future opportunities in order to provide the information needed for efficient and effective capacity-building throughout the world. For this reason, the WWDR is targeted to all those involved in the formulation and implementation of water-related policies and investment strategies, as well as to professionals at all levels. \n\nWWAP Case Studies \n\nOne of the key objectives of the World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) is to help countries improve their self-assessment capability by building on existing strengths and experiences.\nWWAP fulfils this mission by assisting in the preparation of case studies in countries around the world in order to highlight the state of water resources where different physical, climatic and socio-economic conditions prevail. In this regard, case studies show the diversity of circumstances and different human needs. The second purpose of the case studies is to highlight the challenges that need to be addressed in the water resources sector. In the process, the skills and experience of both local water professionals and policy-makers are engaged and enhanced.\nThe World Water Assessment Programme is both global and local in scale, for it must check the accuracy of the big picture on the basis of snapshots of water in the field. In the global strategy to improve the overall quality of water resources, local actions often present the starting point the most fruitful efforts. The WWAP case studies aim to provide a snapshot of those efforts while showing the significance of the decisions taken at local, sub-national and national levels.\nThe lessons learned, from both successes and failures, may be shared with other countries interested in addressing such issues.\n\nSDG 6 – Synthesis Report \n\nThe SDG 6 Synthesis Report aims to provide an overview of the status of SDG 6 implementation at the global and regional levels, as well as some comprehensive information about how SDG 6 is interlinked to other SDG targets and indicators of the Agenda 2030 and the overall sustainability challenges that nations around the world are faced with. By summarizing the progress towards the achievement of SDG 6, this report will provide Member States with the ‘big picture’ on water and sanitation issues, outlining ways to accelerate progress towards this goal. Lessons learned and win-win solutions by which more than one SDG is benefited from SDG 6-related actions, as well as trade-offs and the potential implication of policies adopted by countries will be highlighted. This will enable countries to develop a roadmap towards a more sustainable development, for which water is critical in many regards.\nThe World Water Assessment Programme coordinates a Task Force to Produce the SDG 6 Synthesis Report 2018, composed by some UN-Water members, such as CEO Water Mandate, FAO, ILO, UN-Habitat, UN-Water Technical Advisory Unit (TAU), UNDP, UNECE, UNEP, UNESCO, UNICEF, UNU, WHO, WMO and World Bank.\n\nCapacity Development\nStarting from the challenges of the WWDR, WWAP also focuses on Capacity Development, providing training and courses, such as the “Capacity Development Training Programme on Water and Sustainable Development” to supply tools to strengthen institutional capacity and the effectiveness of water (and water-related) governmental agencies and enhance countries’ capacity to deal with often complex water issues. The training modules focus on issues pertaining the realization of SDG 6 on Water and Sanitation, such as Data and Information regarding water management, the 'Water – Food – Energy and Environment nexus', adapting to extreme water-related events, integrated water resources management, and planning sustainable urban water infrastructure.\n\nWater and Gender\nIn 2014 WWAP has started a ground-breaking project on gender-sensitive water assessment, monitoring and reporting, with a goal to demonstrate how water is a gendered issue. Although women play a key role in the provision, management and safeguarding on water, gender inequality persist on the globe. The Advisor Group on Gender Equality founded in 2010, developed a series of indicators for the collection of sex-disaggregated water data, which are contained/included in the “Toolkits”, with the aim of addressing the considerable data gap on gender and water issues at the global level. The project developed a methodology using the indicators with the aim of advocating for the implementation of gender-sensitive water monitoring in the post-2015 agenda and, in particular, in the monitoring framework of the SDGs. \n\n• WWAP\n• UN-Water\n"}
