{"id": "30101273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30101273", "title": "A. J. R. Russell-Wood", "text": "A. J. R. Russell-Wood\n\nAnthony John R. Russell-Wood (1940 – August 13, 2010) was a leading historian of colonial Brazil, the Portuguese Empire, and the broader Luso-Brazilian world. \n\nRussell-Wood was born in Wales. He was educated at Rossall School and Oxford University and became a member of the faculty of the Department of History at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1971; at the time of his death, he was the Herbert Baxter Adams Professor of History.\n\nHis first book, \"Fidalgos and Philanthropists: The Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Bahia, 1550-1755\" (1968), was an ambitious study covering two centuries of the operation and impact of a key, royally chartered and privately financed social-welfare institution of the Portuguese Empire. It was awarded the 1969 Herbert Eugene Bolton Prize (now the Bolton-Johnson Prize) by the Congress of Latin American Historians. His second book was a path-breaking work on the Afro-Brazilian experience, \"The Black Man in Slavery and Freedom in Colonial Brazil\" (1982); it paid particular attention to regional particularities within Brazil and the importance of brotherhood societies in Afro-Brazilian history. \"World on the Move: The Portuguese in Africa, Asia, and America, 1415-1808\" (1992) explored the Portuguese Empire as the world's first truly global empire, though one often overshadowed in the public imagination by the Spanish Empire; Russell-Wood was intrigued by how the Portuguese made sense of their exposure to the once unimaginable vastness of the world, its people, languages, culture, flora, and fauna. He died, aged 70, in Baltimore, Maryland.\n"}
{"id": "7617922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7617922", "title": "Archaeological record", "text": "Archaeological record\n\nThe archaeological record is the body of physical (not written) evidence about the past. It is one of the core concepts in archaeology, the academic discipline concerned with documenting and interpreting the archaeological record. Archaeological theory is used to interpret the archaeological record for a better understanding of human cultures. The archaeological record can consist of the earliest ancient findings as well as contemporary artifacts. Human activity has had a large impact on the archaeological record. Destructive human processes, such as agriculture and land development, may damage or destroy potential archaeological sites. Other threats to the archaeological record include natural phenomena and scavenging. Archaeology can be a destructive science for the finite resources of the archaeological record are lost to excavation. Therefore, archaeologists limit the amount of excavation that they do at each site and keep meticulous records of what is found. The archaeological record is the physical record of human prehistory and history, of why ancient civilizations prospered or failed and why those cultures changed and grew. It is the story of the human world.\n\nScholars have frequently used in textual analogies such as 'record', 'source' and 'archive' to refer to material evidence of the past since at least the 19th century. The term 'archaeological record' probably originated this way, possibly via parallel concepts in geology (geologic record) or palaeontology (fossil record). The term was used regularly by V. Gordon Childe in the 1950s, and seems to have entered common parlance thereafter.\n\nIn the first critical review of the concept, philosopher Linda Patrik found that by the 1980s archaeologists conceptualised the term in at least five different ways:\nPatrik argued that the first three definitions reflected a \"physical model\" of archaeological evidence, where it is seen as the direct result of physical processes that operated in the past (like the fossil record); in contrast, definitions four and five follow a \"textual model\", where the archaeological record is seen as encoding cultural information about the past (like historical texts). She highlighted the extent to which archaeologists' understanding of what constituted 'the archaeological record' was dependent on broader currents in archaeological theory, namely, that processual archaeologists were likely to subscribe to a physical model and postprocessual archaeologists a textual model.\n\nLucas condenses Patrik's list into three distinct definitions of the archaeological record: \n\nIn its broadest sense, the archaeological record can be conceived as the total body of objects made by, used by, or associated with, humanity. This definition encompasses both artefacts (objects made or modified by humans) and 'ecofacts' (natural objects associated with human activity). In this sense, it is equivalent to material culture, and includes not just 'ancient' remains but the physical things associated with contemporary societies.\n\nThis definition, which emphasizes the materiality of the archaeological record and aligns archaeology with material culture studies and the 'material turn' in cultural anthropology, has become increasingly common with the rise of post-processual archaeology.\n\nMore conservative definitions specify that the archaeological record consists of the \"remains\", \"traces\" or \"residues\" of \"past\" human activity, although the dividing line between 'the past' and 'the present' may not be well-defined. This view is particularly associated with processual archaeology, which saw the archaeological record as the \"fossilised\" product of physical, cultural and taphonomic processes that happened in the past, and focused on understanding those processes.\n\nThe archaeological record can also consist of the written documentation that is presented in scientific journals. It is what archaeologists have learned from the artifacts they have documented. This spans the entire world; archaeology is the human story that belongs to everyone’s past and represents everyone's heritage. This data can be archived and retrieved by archaeologists for research. The mission of an archaeologist is often preservation of the archaeological record. There are different databases which are used to archive and preserve the documentation in addition to the artifacts which serve as archaeological records. One of these databases is The Digital Archaeological Record. The Digital Archaeological Record (tDAR) is an international digital repository for the digital records of archaeological investigations. tDAR's use, development, and maintenance are governed by Digital Antiquity, an organization dedicated to ensuring the long-term preservation of irreplaceable archaeological data and to broadening the access to these data. The archaeological record serves as a database for everything archaeology stands for and has become. The material culture associated with archaeological excavations and the scholarly records in academic journals are the physical embodiment of the archaeological record. The ambiguity that is associated with the archaeological record is often due to the lack of examples, but the archaeological record is everything the science of archaeology has found and created.\n\nComponents of the archaeological record include: artifacts, built structures, human impact on the environment, garbage, stratigraphy, mortuary practices, plant remains, or animal remains. Artifacts from the archaeological record are usually found in the ground, and once dug up, archaeologists put data such as photographs and exact location of the artifact into the archaeological record. Bones are sometimes found and included in the archaeological record. Bones can be from both animals and humans that have died and been preserved. Bone fragments and whole bones can be a part of the archaeological record. Plant and organic material found can also become a part of the archaeological record. Seeds are a common plant material that are found and included in the archaeological record. The seeds that archaeologists find are usually those that were burned during cooking, which helps to preserve them. Features are also part of the archaeological record, and are material culture that usually archaeologists are unable to take and study inside a lab. Features can include burn marks in the ground from fire pits or mounds and other structures constructed long ago. Features can also include mounds or other monuments that have been constructed by other civilizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3613584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3613584", "title": "Assyria (Roman province)", "text": "Assyria (Roman province)\n\nAssyria () was reputedly a Roman province that lasted only two years (116–118 AD).\n\nAccording to Eutropius and Festus, who in the second half of the 4th century historians, at a time when the Roman emperor Trajan was perceived as \"a valuable paradigm for contemporary events and figures\", wrote under the direction of the Emperor Valens, Assyria was one of three provinces (with Armenia and Mesopotamia) created by Trajan in AD 116 following a successful military campaign against Parthia that in that year saw him cross the River Tigris from Mesopotamia and take possession, in spite of resistance, of the territory of Adiabene and then march south to the Parthian capital of Seleucia-Ctesiphon and to Babylon. There is numismatic evidence for the Trajanic provinces of Armenia and Mesopotamia, but none for that of Assyria, whose existence is questioned by C.S. Lightfoot and F. Miller.\n\nDespite Rome's military victory, Trajan's 116 conquest was plagued with difficulties. From the start, a Parthian prince named Santruces organized an armed revolt by the native peoples, during which Roman garrisons were driven from their posts and a Roman general was killed as his troops tried to stop the rebellion. Trajan overcame the revolt, capturing and burning Seleucia and Edessa, and even setting up a puppet Parthian king; but then, on his journey homeward in triumph, he fell sick and died on 8 August 117.\n\nTrajan's successor, Hadrian, implemented a new policy with respect to the recently acquired territories in the east. Believing that they overextended the empire, he withdrew to the more easily defensible borders. He left unfinished the work of overcoming the Parthians, which he saw would require an excessive increase in military spending. He sent the puppet Parthian king elsewhere and restored to the former ruler the lands east of the Euphrates, together with his daughter who had been captured, preferring to live with him in peace and friendship.\n\nThe fourth-century historians Eutropius and Festus assume that the supposed Roman province of Assyria was situated east of the Tigris and so outside of Mesopotamia.\n\nTheodore Mommsen wrote that it was located north of the Roman Mesopotamia province, in Upper Mesopotamia, stretching into western Persia (in an area called Media Atropatene) in what is now northwestern Iran.\n\nBut some modern scholars argue that the \"Assyria Provincia\" was located between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, in present-day central Iraq, a location that is corroborated by the text of the 4th-century Roman historian Festus. However, other sources contend that the province was located near Armenia and east of the Tigris, in a region formerly known as Adiabene, which was a neo-Assyrian kingdom.\n\nHadrian's withdrawal in 118 did not mark the end of Roman rule in Mesopotamia. A second Parthian campaign was launched from 161-165 under the command of Lucius Verus, with the Roman army once more conquering territory east of the Euphrates. Rome pursued military action against the Parthians again in 197-8 under the command of emperor Septimius Severus.\n\nFollowing his successful campaign, Septimius Severus instituted two new Roman provinces: Mesopotamia and Osroene, a Neo-Assyrian kingdom or, according to Matthew Bunson, a kingdom that began only in the 2nd century BC, centered on Edessa. He also stationed two Roman legions in the new provinces to ensure stability and prevent against first Parthian, and later Sassanian attacks. Roman influence in the area came to an end under Jovian in 363, who abandoned the region after concluding a hasty peace agreement with the Sassanians and retreating to Constantinople to consolidate his political power.\n\nDespite continued Roman activity in the region, no further reference is made to a Roman province of Assyria following Hadrian's evacuation in 118 AD. When Septimus Severus created the provinces of Osroene and Mesopotamia at the end of the 2nd century, no mention is made of a Roman province of Assyria. \n\nThe Roman historian Ammianus Marcellinus (c. 330 − c. 391) says that the district of Adiabene was formerly called Assyria, with no indication that either ever was a Roman province. He says that Assyria was the nearest to Rome of the chief Persian provinces and that in his time it was known by a single name, though previously divided among several peoples and tribes. He lists among the cities of Assyria Babylon, Seleucia and Ctesiphon. He speaks of the Emperor Julian as, in his campaign against the Sasanian Empire, attacking Assyrians shortly before crossing the Euphrates into Osroene, as living near the Euphrates to the south of Carrhae, \n\nThus, it seems that the province of Assyria only existed during Trajan's reign, if even then, and was not reinstated during later Roman occupations of the region. The general area coincided with ancient Assyria; however, and the Medes, Achaemenid Persians, Seleucid Greeks, Sassanids and Parthians all had similar names for the area (Ashur, Athura, Assuristan).\n\nThe Assyrian people of the region had already begun to adopt Christianity by Trajan's time, and still retained an Akkadian-infused Eastern Aramaic as a spoken and literary tongue, as they do to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "40310061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40310061", "title": "Ausci", "text": "Ausci\n\nThe Ausci were an Aquitani pre-Roman tribe settled in what today is southwestern France, in the city of \"Elimberrum\" or \"Eliberris\" (from Basque, \"hiri\": \"city\" and \"berri\": \"new\"), present-day Auch in the French department of Gers. The Ausci spoke a form or dialect of the Aquitanian language, a precursor of the Basque language.\n\n"}
{"id": "326920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326920", "title": "Biogenesis", "text": "Biogenesis\n\nBiogenesis is the production of new living organisms or organelles. Conceptually, biogenesis is primarily attributed to Louis Pasteur and encompasses the belief that complex living things come only from other living things, by means of reproduction. That is, life does not spontaneously arise from non-living material, which was the position held by spontaneous generation. This is summarized in the phrase \"Omne vivum ex vivo\", Latin for \"all life [is] from life.\" A related statement is \"Omnis cellula e cellula\", \"all cells [are] from cells;\" this conclusion is one of the central statements of cell theory.\n\nThe term biogenesis was coined by Henry Charlton Bastian to mean the generation of a life form from nonliving materials, however, Thomas Henry Huxley chose the term abiogenesis and redefined biogenesis for life arising from preexisting life. The generation of life from non-living material is called abiogenesis, and occurred through stepwise chemical and molecular evolution over millions of years.\n\nThe term \"biogenesis\" may also refer to biochemical processes of production in living organisms (see biosynthesis).\n\nThe Ancient Greeks believed that living things could spontaneously come into being from nonliving matter, and that the goddess Gaia could make life arise spontaneously from stones – a process known as \"Generatio spontanea\". Aristotle disagreed, but he still believed that creatures could arise from dissimilar organisms or from soil. Variations of this concept of spontaneous generation still existed as late as the 17th century, but towards the end of the 17th century, a series of observations and arguments began that eventually discredited such ideas. This advance in scientific understanding was met with much opposition, with personal beliefs and individual prejudices often obscuring the facts.\n\nWilliam Harvey (1578–1657) was an early proponent of all life beginning from an egg, \"omne vivum ex ovo\".\nFrancesco Redi, an Italian physician, proved as early as 1668 that higher forms of life did not originate spontaneously by demonstrating that maggots come from eggs of flies. But proponents of spontaneous generation claimed that this did not apply to microbes and continued to hold that these could arise spontaneously. Attempts to disprove the spontaneous generation of life from non-life continued in the early 19th century with observations and experiments by Franz Schulze and Theodor Schwann.\nIn 1745, John Needham added chicken broth to a flask and boiled it. He then let it cool and waited. Microbes grew, and he proposed it as an example of spontaneous generation. In 1768, Lazzaro Spallanzani repeated Needham's experiment but removed all the air from the flask. No growth occurred. In 1854, Heinrich G. F. Schröder (1810–1885) and Theodor von Dusch, and in 1859, Schröder alone, repeated the Helmholtz filtration experiment and showed that living particles can be removed from air by filtering it through cotton-wool.\n\nIn 1864, Louis Pasteur finally announced the results of his scientific experiments. In a series of experiments similar to those performed earlier by Needham and Spallanzani, Pasteur demonstrated that life does not arise in areas that have not been contaminated by existing life. Pasteur's empirical results were summarized in the phrase \"Omne vivum ex vivo\", Latin for \"all life [is] from life\".\n\nAfter obtaining his results, Pasteur stated: \"La génération spontanée est une chimère\" (\"Spontaneous generation is a dream\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1102040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102040", "title": "Bun'ō", "text": "Bun'ō\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5075440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075440", "title": "Canada in the World Wars and Interwar Years", "text": "Canada in the World Wars and Interwar Years\n\nDuring the World wars and Interwar Years Canada experienced economic gain, more freedom for women and new technological advancements.\n\nOn June 28, 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Hungary was assassinated, setting off a chain of events leading to World War I. At the time, Canadians were more concerned with events within their own country than European affairs, specifically in the Balkans where crises and wars had been brutal perennials for generations. The summer of 1914 brought a second year of drought turning wheat fields into parched deserts while the two new transcontinental railways the Grand Trunk Pacific and the Canadian Northern fell further into debt, sending the thousands of men who had helped build them into unemployment. Canada was facing its worst depression since the 1890s. Canadians hoped the Great Powers of Europe could keep the peace as they had done many times before in earlier disputes of the century. Besides, so far Britain had no reason to join in the squabble forming on the main continent, leaving no obligation for Canada to join if war did break out between Russia, France, Germany and Austria-Hungary. News of war did not make a stir in Canada until Germany invaded Belgium as part of the Schlieffen Plan, and the British delivered an ultimatum to Kaiser Wilhelm: withdraw from Belgium by August 4 or Britain would be at a state of war with Germany.\n\nOn July 29, 1914, Britain warned its colonies to take precautions in case of war. Most recent wars had begun with surprise attacks such as the Russo-Japanese War. Soldiers and Canada's few sailors manned Halifax fortifications and brought guns to command the St. Lawrence river. In Victoria, British Columbia Premier Richard McBride signed a cheque for $1,150,000 and bought two submarines from a Seattle shipyard, so at least British Columbia's coast was not completely defenceless. On August 2 armed militia mounted guard on bridges, canals, tunnels and railway stations in preparation. In Ottawa, the Minister of Militia, Colonel Sam Hughes, had dreamed for years of leading Canadians to war and had for a long time preached and prepared for war with Germany and now had only to wait on London to make the first move, much to his irritation, but was persuaded by the octogenarian quartermaster general Major-General Donald Alexander Macdonald to be patient. On August 4 8:55 P.M., Canada got the news and Hughes was ecstatic: Britain was at war with Germany.\n\nCanada was then automatically at war, as she did not yet have control over her foreign policy — not that there were many dissenters. The war was initially popular even among French Canadians, including Henri Bourassa, who historically looked afoul at the British Empire. Liberal leader Wilfrid Laurier created a 'party truce' for as long as Canada was in danger and had those dissenters in the liberal caucus hold their tongues. When asked what Canada 'must do' by the press, Laurier responded \"When the call comes, our answer goes at once, and it goes in the classical language of the British answer to the call of duty, 'Ready, aye, ready!'\" Prime Minister Robert Borden called a meeting of Parliament on August 18, and without division or significant debate, MPs approved an overseas contingent of 25,000 men with Canada bearing the full cost: a war appropriation of $50 million and a Canadian Patriotic Fund to support the families of men who would fight in Europe. The Cabinet spent many hours trying to devise adequate emergency legislation, resulting in the War Measures Act, decreeing the Cabinet would have the authority to do whatever it deemed necessary for the security, defence, peace, order and welfare of Canada. \n\nIn no way was Canada prepared for this scale of war. Its economy could not support it for more than a few months before being hit hard by its cost, as was with other participants. No one expected it to last longer than a few months though, many claiming it would be over by Christmas. Mass recruiting for the war effort began on August 6 with hundreds of telegrams notifying Militia colonel to begin recruiting men between the ages of 18 and 45. Hordes of British immigrants and the unemployed answered the call. Ontario, hard hit by the depression, accounted for third of the recruits, while two thirds of the recruits were British born. Few recruits came from the Maritimes and just over 1,000 were French. The cities of Toronto, Winnipeg and Montreal sent enough men each for two battalions. By September 4 there were 32,000 men and 8,000 horses in camp, far more than had been expected. There was an immediate demand for equipment, uniforms and weapons. The Ross Rifle Company worked overtime as did the textile mills and clothing factories. With a force of 32,000 equipped and ready, it soon became apparent that Embarkation from the docks would be a nightmare. Extra ships had to be chartered to carry the additional men. Battalions were marched on to ships only to be marched back off when they didn't fit. Units ignored orders and schedules and crowded the docks not wishing to wait. When it was all done, the last of 30 ships had cleared the harbour, leaving 863 horses, 4,512 tons of baggage, vehicles and ammunition behind, for which another ship had to be called in to pick up.\n\nThe first Canadian casualties of the war occurred before these troops arrived in Europe. Sir Christopher Cradock's squadron was sunk at the Battle of Coronel off the coast of Chile, claiming four midshipmen who became Canada's first war dead. By the time that the First Contingent reached England on October 14 it became apparent the war would not be over by Christmas. Germany's initial rapid successes in Belgium and France had come to halt and both sides were starting to dig into their positions.\n\nCanadians fought at Ypres, the Somme, Passchendaele, and other important battles, originally under British command, but eventually under a unified Canadian command. From a Canadian point of view the most important battle of the war was the Battle of Vimy Ridge in 1917, during which Canadian troops captured a fortified German hill that had eluded both the British and French. Vimy, as well as the success of the Canadian flying ace Billy Bishop, helped give Canada a new sense of identity.\nWith mounting costs at home, Sir Thomas White introduced the first income tax in Canada as a \"temporary\" measure. The lowest bracket was 4% and highest was 25%.\n\nThe 620,000 men in service were most remembered for combat in the trenches of the Western Front; there were 67,000 war dead and 173,000 wounded. This total does not include the 2,000 deaths and 9,000 injuries in December 1917 when a munitions ship exploded in Halifax.\n\nAfter three years of a war that was supposed to have been over in three months, Canada was suffering from a shortage of volunteers. Prime Minister Robert Borden had originally promised not to introduce conscription, but now believed it was necessary to win the war. The \"Military Service Act\" was passed in July, but there was fierce opposition, mostly from French Canadians (led not only by Bourassa, but also by Wilfrid Laurier), as well as Quakers, Mennonites, and other pacifists. Borden's government almost collapsed, but he was able to form a Union government with the Liberal opposition (although Laurier did not join the new government). In the 1917 election, the Union government was re-elected, but with no support from Quebec. Over the next year, the war finally ended, with very few Canadian conscripts actually participating.\n\nHalifax, Nova Scotia, was the main staging point for convoys making trans-Atlantic crossings. On December 6, 1917, a Belgian relief ship collided with the , a French munitions ship in Halifax harbour. The crash set the \"Mont-Blanc\" on fire; its holds were full of benzol, picric acid, and TNT. Twenty minutes later it exploded with a force stronger than any man-made explosion before it, destroying most of Halifax and the surrounding towns. Out of a population of 50,000, 1600 people were killed and over 9,000 injured; hundreds were blinded by flying glass. The city was evacuated and dropped out of the war effort, focusing primarily on economic survival.\n\nDuring the war, the woman's suffrage movement gained support. The provinces began extending voting rights to women in 1916, and women were finally allowed to vote in federal elections in 1918. Canada was also faced with the return of thousands of soldiers, with few jobs waiting for them at home. They also brought back with them the Spanish Flu, which killed over 50,000 people by 1919, almost the same number that had been killed in the war.\n\nThe move from a wartime to a peacetime economy, combined with the unwillingness of returned soldiers to accept pre-war working conditions, led to another crisis. In 1919, the One Big Union was formed by trade union syndicalists with the intent of improving conditions for all workers, not just in a single workplace, industry, or sector. The OBU had some influence on the Winnipeg General Strike of 1919, which business and political leaders saw as an outbreak of Bolshevism, especially since the Soviet Union had recently been formed. The army was sent in to break the strike and the entire Winnipeg police force was fired and replaced with a much larger and better paid force of armed special constables. Although the Winnipeg strike is the best known, it was part of a larger strike wave that swept the country. Special constables, vigilante \"citizens\" organizations, and replacement workers were mobilized in strikebreaking throughout the country in this period.\n\nMeanwhile, in western Canada, and to some extent in the Maritimes, populist reformers were pushing for increased provincial rights and a focus on agriculture, rather than the industrial focus of Central Canada. They formed the Progressive Party of Canada, which supported Mackenzie King when the Liberals had a minority government in 1925-26. King eventually lost support, however, because of the trade tariffs issue, as well as a liquor smuggling scandal. When his request that parliament be dissolved was rejected by the Governor General of Canada (\"see King-Byng Affair\"), he was forced to resign in 1926, but was re-appointed after his party won the election later that year, after which, at an Imperial Conference, King advocated the redefining of the role of the Governor General and the gain of increased independence for Canada in the Balfour Declaration of 1926.\n\nThe history of broadcasting in Canada begins in the early 1920s, as Canadians were swept up in the radio craze and built crystal sets to listen to American stations. Main themes in the history include the development of the engineering technology; the construction of stations across the country and the building of networks; the widespread purchase and use of radio and television sets by the general public; debates regarding state versus private ownership of stations; financing of the broadcasts media through the government, license fees, and advertising; the changing content of the programming; the impact of the programming on Canadian identity; the media's influence on shaping audience responses to music, sports and politics; the role of the Québec government; Francophone versus Anglophone cultural tastes; the role of other ethnic groups and First Nations; and fears of American cultural imperialism via the airwaves. In the late 20th century, Radio was largely overwhelmed by television, but still maintained a niche. In the 21st century, the central question is the impact of the Internet and smartphones on traditional broadcasting media.\n\nMost Canadian-owned stations had weak signals compared with American stations. In the 1930s there were 60 Canadian stations but 40% of Canadians could only tune in American stations. Many stations simply rebroadcast American radio shows. Little funding was available for Canadian content. The most notable exceptions were religious radio shows, such as \"Back to the Bible Hour,\" produced by Alberta's premier, William Aberhart, and the increasingly popularity of broadcast hockey games.\n\nPressure from Graham Spry and the Canadian Radio League encouraged Mackenzie King to request a Royal Commission on Radio Broadcasting. Its report called for a national radio network to encourage national sentiment. In 1932, the government of R.B. Bennett established the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission, transformed into the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation in 1936. CBC set up a French language network in Quebec and adjacent Francophone areas. Although the French language service had little competition from American stations, it proved quite conservative in technology and programming. It was closely aligned with powerful newspaper and Church interests and became a propaganda forum for the traditional elites of Quebec. It did not promote separatism or a sense of Québec nationalism.\n\nCanada was hard hit by the worldwide Great Depression that began in 1929. Between 1929 and 1933, the gross national product dropped 40% (compared to 37% in the US). Unemployment reached 27% at the depth of the Depression in 1933. Many businesses closed, as corporate profits of $396 million in 1929 turned into losses of $98 million in 1933. Canadian exports shrank by 50% from 1929 to 1933. Construction all but stopped (down 82%, 1929–33), and wholesale prices dropped 30%. Wheat prices plunged from 78c per bushel (1928 crop) to 29c in 1932.\n\nWorst hit were areas dependent on primary industries such as farming, mining and logging, as prices fell and there were few alternative jobs. Most families had moderate losses and little hardship, though they too became pessimistic and their debts become heavier as prices fell. Some families saw most or all of their assets disappear, and suffered severely.\n\nWhile the decline started in the United States, it quickly spread to Canada. The first industry affected was wheat farming, which saw a collapse in prices. This impoverished the economies of the Prairie provinces, but as wheat was then Canada's largest export it also hurt the rest of the country. With the collapse of the construction industry, lumbering was even worse hit, as there were few alternative jobs in the lumbering region. This was soon followed by a deep recession in manufacturing, first caused by a drop-off in demand in the United States, and then by Canadians also not buying more than bare essentials. The auto industry that prospered so greatly in the 1920s was badly hit. Construction came to a halt. People who lost jobs because of layoffs and closures had a very hard time finding a new ones—especially older men and teenagers. Unemployment rose to 25 per cent.\n\nIn 1930 in the first stage of the long depression, Prime Minister Mackenzie King believed that the crisis was a temporary swing of the business cycle and that the economy would soon recover without government intervention. He refused to provide unemployment relief or federal aid to the provinces, saying that if Conservative provincial governments demanded federal dollars he would not give them \"a five cent piece.\" His blunt wisecrack was used to defeat the Liberals in the 1930 election. The main issue was the rapid deterioration in the economy and whether the prime minister was out of touch with the hardships of ordinary people. The winner of the 1930 election was Richard Bedford Bennett and the Conservatives. Bennett, a successful Western businessman, campaigned on high tariffs and large scale spending, but as deficits increased he became wary and cut back severely on Federal spending. With falling support and the depression only getting worse Bennett attempted to introduce policies based on the New Deal of President Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR) in the United States, but this was largely unsuccessful. The government became a focus of popular discontent, even though its policies were largely the same as those of other Western governments. Canadian car owners who could no longer afford gasoline reverted to having their vehicles pulled by horses and dubbed them Bennett Buggies. Bennett's perceived failures during the Great Depression led to the re-election of Mackenzie King's Liberals in the 1935 election.\n\nAlthough the United States began to see rapid improvements as a result of FDR's policies, Canada saw far less growth. Nevertheless, by 1936 the worst of the Depression was over. Mackenzie King implemented some relief programs such as the National Housing Act and National Employment Commission, and also established the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (1936) and Trans-Canada Airlines (1937, the precursor to Air Canada). However, it took until 1939 and the outbreak of war for the Canadian economy to return to 1929 levels.\n\nThe Progressive and United Farmers Parties had achieved some success in the 1920s, but during the 1930s, their members generally joined other parties, like the Social Credit movement and the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation.\n\nIn Alberta, a Christian radio broadcaster named William \"Bible Bill\" Aberhart became interested in politics partly because the Great Depression had been especially harsh on Albertan farmers. Particularly, he was drawn to the \"social credit\" theories of Major C. H. Douglas, a Scottish engineer. From 1932 to 1935, Aberhart lobbied for the governing political party, the United Farmers of Alberta, to adopt these theories. The basis of social credit is that the difference in production cost and individuals' purchasing power should be supplemented through government grants. When these efforts failed, Aberhart helped found the Social Credit Party of Alberta, which won the 1935 provincial election by a landslide with over 54% of the popular vote.\nThe Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF) was founded in 1932 in Calgary, Alberta, by a number of socialist, farm, co-operative and labour groups, and the League for Social Reconstruction. The CCF aimed to alleviate the suffering of the Great Depression through economic reform and public \"co-operation\". Many of the party's first Members of Parliament (MPs) were former members of the Ginger Group of left-wing Progressive and Labour MPs. In its first election in 1935, seven CCF MPs were elected to the House of Commons of Canada. Eight were elected in the following election in 1940.\n\nThe period also saw the rise of the openly fascist National Unity Party (NUP) and the Communist Party of Canada, which was declared illegal under Section 98 of the Criminal Code from 1931 to 1936. The party continued to exist, but was under the constant threat of legal harassment, and was for all intents and purposes an underground organization until 1936. The party greatly contributed in the mobilization of volunteers to fight in the Spanish Civil War. The NUP and, again, the Communist Party were banned in 1940.\n\nThe depression had crippled the economy and left one in nine Canadians on relief. Nor did relief come free; the Bennett government had asked the Canadian Department of National Defense to organize work camps where the labour of unemployed single men was used to construct roads and other public works with little remuneration. The poor working conditions in the camps led to serious unrest, including a major strike in Vancouver in April 1935. The strikers' demands included adequate first aid equipment in the camps, the extension of the Workmen's Compensation Act to include camp workers, and that workers in camps be granted the right to vote in Federal elections. Public support was enormous, and the action snowballed into a bigger movement when the men decided to take their grievances to the federal government. In June 1935, hundreds of men boarded boxcars headed East in what would come to be known as the \"On to Ottawa Trek\".\n\nThe protest was halted, however, before it could reach the capital. In Regina, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) confined the protesters in a local stadium. Only the eight leaders of the protest were actually allowed to proceed to Ottawa, where they were granted a meeting with Prime Minister R.B. Bennett. Bennett attacked the group as radicals, and eventually had the delegation hustled out of his office. Upon returning to Regina to unite with the rest of the protesters, they organized large public rallies, which broke out into riots when the Federal government deployed police to break up the rallies and arrest the leaders. Two people were killed as a result of the riot and many more injured. When the trek was over the government provided free transportation back to the camps. These camps were soon abolished following Bennett's electoral defeat, and new, less extensive, relief work schemes were devised on farms and in forestry camps in conjunction with provincial governments, and pay rates changed from twenty-cents a day to five dollars a month.\n\nAt the end of World War I Canada was a founding member of the League of Nations and was granted full membership. But the Borden and King governments made it clear that \"Canada lived 'in a fireproof house far from flammable materials' and felt no automatic obligation to the principle of collective security\". Very much like the United States, after the great war Canada turned away from international politics. Instead, King focused his attention on good relations with the United States and on greater independence from Great Britain, moving into a position of near isolation. Thus, in 1922 King refused to support the British to enforce a peace settlement during the Chanak Crisis, when revolutionary Turkey attacked and drove out the Greek in Asia Minor. At an Imperial Conference in 1923 it was agreed that no resolution was binding unless approved by each dominion parliament. Canada then for the first time signed a treaty (the 1923 Halibut Treaty with the US) without British participation, and it proceeded to establish its own embassy in Washington. Further steps to independence were the Balfour Declaration of 1926 and the Statute of Westminster in 1931.\n\nCanadians were all the more preoccupied with domestic economic problems and chose to remain neutral throughout the 1930s. Japan's invasion of Manchuria raised little concern in Canada, as did Hitler's rise to power in 1933 or Italy's invasion of Ethiopia in 1935. The Canadian government declared its neutrality on the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War in 1936 where Francisco Franco lead a military uprising, supported with military hardware and tens of thousands of troops by Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy against the legitimate Spanish government. Nevertheless, many Canadians volunteered to fight for the Spanish Republic in the International Brigades and couldn't be deterred by the Foreign Enlistment Act of 1937, outlawing participation by Canadians in foreign wars. Eventually, 1,546 Canadians participated, mainly in the Mackenzie-Papineau Battalion (also called \"Mac-Paps\") of which 721 were killed. Except for France, no other country gave as great a proportion of its population as volunteers in Spain than Canada.\n\nDespite its expressed neutrality, in 1936, Canada began a modest program of rearmament and in 1937, King let Britain know that Canada would support the Empire in case of a war in Europe. He visited Germany in June 1937 and met with Adolf Hitler. Like many other political leaders of the time, King was seduced by Hitler's charm and rehearsed simplicity and he supported the policy of \"appeasement\" of Germany. King and other leaders remained quiet when Hitler annexed Austria in 1938 and Bohemia in 1939.\n\nWith the rise of anti-Semitism in Germany and the growing trickle of refugees arriving in the country, Canada began to actively restrict Jewish immigration by 1938. Frederick Charles Blair, the country's top immigration bureaucrat, raised the amount of money immigrants had to possess to come to Canada from $5,000 to $15,000. As well, immigrants had to prove they were farmers, which no Jew coming from central Europe was. Senator Cairine Wilson was one of the country's leading voices against fascism and one of the few non-Jews lobbying for the refugees but she was unable to get Mackenzie King to intervene. For King himself shared the anti-Semitism of many Canadians; in his diary he wrote: \"We must seek to keep this part of the continent free from unrest and from too great an intermixture of foreign strains of blood.\"\n\"Through government inaction and Blair's bureaucratic anti-Semitism, Canada emerged from the war with one of the worst records of Jewish refugee resettlement in the world. Between 1933 and 1939, Canada accepted only 4,000 of the 800,000 Jews who had escaped from Nazi-controlled Europe.\"\n\nThe Canadian economy, like the economies of many other countries, improved in an unexpected way with the outbreak of the Second World War. When Hitler invaded Poland on September 1, 1939, Mackenzie King was finally convinced that military action would be necessary, but advised George VI, King of Canada, to wait until September 10, after parliament had debated the matter, to declare war (unlike World War I, when Canada was automatically at war as soon as Britain was). Ultimately, more than one million Canadians served in armed forces.\n\nOne of Canada's major contributions to the war was the Commonwealth Air Training Plan, in which over 140,000 Allied pilots and air crews received training at bases in Canada. Canada is widely recognized for its key role in the Battle of the Atlantic. The first major land actions of the war, at Hong Kong and Dieppe, were unsuccessful. The bulk of Canadian land forces remained undeployed until the landings in Sicily and Italy in 1943. In 1944, Canadian forces successfully captured Juno Beach during the Battle of Normandy, and by the autumn, an entire field army under Canadian command was instrumental in liberating the Netherlands, for which many Dutch still fondly remember Canadians today.\n\nWomen began to play a more significant part in war efforts, joining the armed forces for the first time (aside from nursing) by means of the Canadian Women's Army Corps, the Royal Canadian Air Force Women's Division, and the Royal Canadian Naval Women's Service (Wrens). Although women were still not allowed to enter combat, they performed a number of other roles in clerical, administrative, and communications divisions. A total of 45,423 women enlisted during the course of the war, and one in nine served overseas.\n\nWith over a million Canadians serving in the Armed Forces during the war, enormous new employment opportunities appeared for women in workplaces previously unknown to them. To encourage women to work in factories, machine shops, and other heavy industries, the Canadian government offered free child-care and tax breaks. Elsie MacGill, an aeronautical engineer who supervised the production of Hawker Hurricane aircraft for the Canada Car and Foundry Company became a celebrated war hero known as \"Queen of the Hurricanes.\"\n\nThe \"Gander Air Base\" now known as Gander International Airport built in 1936 in the Dominion of Newfoundland was leased by the UK to Canada for 99 years because of its urgent need for the movement of fighter and bomber aircraft to the UK. Canada gave the United Kingdom gifts totalling $3.5 billion during the war; the UK used it to buy Canadian food and war supplies.\n\nAs in World War I, the number of volunteers began to run dry as the war dragged on. Mackenzie King had promised, like Borden, not to introduce conscription, though his position was somewhat ambiguous: as he declared to the House of Commons on June 10, 1942: \"Not necessarily conscription but conscription if necessary.\"\n\nWith rising pressure from the people, on June 21, 1940, King passed the \"National Resources Mobilization Act\" (NRMA) which gave the government the power to \"call out every man in Canada for military training for the defence of Canada\", and only Canada. Conscripts could not be sent overseas to fight. English Canadians, expectedly, were displeased and took to calling these soldiers \"zombies\" who they stereotyped as French Canadians who were \"sitting comfortably\" while their countrymen died.\n\nOn April 27, 1942, Mackenzie King held a national plebiscite to decide on the issue, having made campaign promises to avoid conscription (and, it is thought, winning the election on that very point). The majority of English Canadians voted in favour of the conscription, while the majority of French Canadians did not. Nevertheless, the final result was a yes, which granted King the permission to bring in a conscription law if he wanted. However, the issue was put off for another two years, until November 1944 when King decided on a levy of NRMA troops for overseas service. There were riots in Quebec and a mutiny by conscripts based in Terrace, British Columbia. An aged Henri Bourassa also spoke out against the decision.\n\nSome 13,000 NRMA men eventually left Canada, but only 2,463 reached units in the field before the end of the fighting. 69 died in battle. \n\nWhen Canada declared war on Japan in December 1941, members of the non-Japanese population of British Columbia, including municipal government offices, local newspapers and businesses called for the internment of the Japanese. In British Columbia, some claimed that Japanese residents who worked in the fishing industry were charting the coastline for the Japanese navy, and many of their boats were confiscated. The pressure from the public was so great that early in 1942 the government gave in to the pressure and began the internment of both Japanese nationals and Japanese Canadian citizens. Most of the nearly 22,000 people of Japanese descent who lived in Canada were naturalized or native-born citizens. Those unwilling to live in internment camps faced the possibility of deportation to Japan.\n\nUnlike Japanese American internment, where families were generally kept together, Canada initially sent its male evacuees to road camps in the British Columbian interior, to sugar beet projects on the Prairies, or to internment in a POW camp in Ontario, while women and children were moved to six inland British Columbia towns. There, the living conditions were so poor that the citizens of wartime Japan even sent supplemental food shipments through the Red Cross. During the period of detention, the Canadian government spent one-third the per capita amount expended by the U.S. on Japanese American evacuees.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1642296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1642296", "title": "Carlo Denina", "text": "Carlo Denina\n\nCarlo Giovanni Maria Denina (1731, Revello – 5 December 1813, Paris) was an Italian historian.\n\nHe was born at Revello, Piedmont, in 1731, and was educated at Saluzzo and Turin. In 1753 he was appointed to the chair of humanity at Pinerolo, but he was soon compelled by the influence of the Jesuits to retire from it. In 1756 he graduated as doctor in theology, and began authorship with a theological treatise.\n\nPromoted to the professorship of humanity and rhetoric in the college of Turin, he published (1769–1770) his \"Delle revoluzioni d'Italia\", the work on which his reputation is mainly founded. Collegiate honors accompanied the issue of its successive volumes, which, however, at the same time multiplied his foes and stimulated their hatred.\n\nIn 1782, at Frederick the Great's invitation, he went to Berlin, where he remained for many years, in the course of which he published his \"Vie et régne de Frédéric II\" (Berlin, 1788) and \"La Prusse littéraire sous Frédéric II\" (3 vols., Berlin, 1790–1791). His \"Delle revoluzioni della Germania\" was published at Florence in 1804, in which year he went to Paris as the imperial librarian, on the invitation of Napoleon. At Paris he published in 1805 his \"Tableau de la Haute Italie, et des Alpes qui l'entourent\". He died there in 1813.\n\nThe French politician and poet Joseph Aurèle de Bossi studied law under his direction.\n\nCarlo Denina left a great many mnumber of works, most of them in Italian, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "4425025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4425025", "title": "Christopher de Haro", "text": "Christopher de Haro\n\nChristopher de Haro (in Portuguese, Cristóvão de Haro) was a Lisbon-based merchant of Flemish origin. As a financier and representative of the Fuggers he provided the financial backing to Ferdinand Magellan's 1519 voyage, the first circumnavigation around the world.\n\nHis brother Jacob de Haro headed a commercial firm based in Antwerp. Christopher de Haro, as a representative of this firm, had been based in Lisbon and later joined Magellan in Spain. \n\nChristopher de Haro had a dispute with the Portuguese king, Manuel I, and as a result left Lisbon and moved to Seville. There he met again with Magellan whom he knew from Lisbon. Familiar with the secret Portuguese expeditions, he thought Magellan's plan was worthy of his financial backing. He provided about one-quarter of the cost of Magellan's expedition directly. Three-quarters of the cost was defrayed by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, much of it loaned by Haro at high interest.\n\nThe author Maximilianus of Transylvania (Maximilianus Transylvanus) was married to Frances, daughter of Jacob de Haro, and was thus well-positioned to write the first account of Magellan's voyage, which was published in 1523. Transylvanus had observed that de Haro had assisted Magellan and Ruy Faleiro considerably in presenting their proposals before the Spanish royal counselors.\n\n"}
{"id": "47028771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47028771", "title": "Claro Abánades López", "text": "Claro Abánades López\n\nClaro Abánades López (12 August 1879 – 16 December 1973) was a Spanish journalist, publisher, historian and a Carlist activist. His career of a journalist lasted over 70 years (1897–1969), though he is rather known as author of studies on history of Alcarria and as editor of monumental multi-volume series of Juan Vázquez de Mella works.\n\nClaro Abánades López was born to a working class family from tierra alcarreña, a natural region covering mostly what is now the Guadalajara province. His father, Pedro Abánades Jiménez (1847–1907), was a construction contractor. Little is known about his mother, Antonia López del Rey. The couple had 5 children, Claro born as the second oldest son; all were raised in a profoundly Catholic ambience. He was first educated in the local molinese Colegio de Santa Clara, a primary school ran by the Poor Clares order, later to join Colegio Molines de los Padres Escolapios (Escuelas Pias), a prestigious provincial secondary education establishment; it is there he gained the bachelor title.\n\nClaro intended to pursue law in Madrid, but financial standing of his parents did not allow regular studies; in 1899 he entered Facultad de Derecho of (later to become Universidad Complutense) as an unenrolled student. Having graduated at an unspecified date he went on studying philosophy and letters, obtaining diploma in Sección de Historia in 1906. Some time afterwards he became a Doctor in both disciplines, in the Spanish education system of the time the title which enabled him to teach in primary or secondary schools.\n\nClaro Abánades married Natalia Arpa, originating from Torrijos in the Toledo province. They initially lived in Molina de Aragón; in 1907 the family moved to Madrid, settling at calle Jesús del Valle in the university quarter. Claro was employed as professor at Colegio de la Concepción, a prestigious education institution for the privileged and the wealthy. The college remained his primary workplace for unspecified time; in the early 1930s he was already reported as headmaster of another Madrid secondary school, Colegio San Ildefonso, offering a complete Catholic curriculum from kindergarten to bachillerato, involved in education activities as late as in the early 1940s. The couple had 3 children: Claro Pedro, Mariano and María de los Angeles. The older son, born already in Molina, worked as a journalist; the younger one became a professor at another secondary school in Madrid.\n\nAbánades started his journalist career in 1897, gradually commencing co-operation with many provincial periodicals regardless of their political outlook. His contributions ranged from history to politics, literature and customs; touring the province he also kept sending local correspondence. In 1906 he co-founded a petty new journal, \"La Torre de Aragón\"; though not defined politically, it pursued a social-Catholic line. Following differences with his partner in 1908 he launched an own weekly, \"El Vigia de la Torre\". It assumed more militant tone, claiming to have been the unique genuinely Catholic periodical in the province. One work described it as Catholic, though formatted along the Integrist pattern; another one claims that both weeklies revealed a clear Carlist leaning.\n\nIn 1910–1914 in Madrid Abánades three times unsuccessfully attempted to launch a local weekly of the Carlist youth: \"Juventud Tradicionalista\", \"El Combate\" and \"El Cruzado\". His career in full-blown national newspaper commenced in 1914, when he was invited to contribute to \"\", the official Carlist daily. Becoming member of its editorial board, in 1919 Abánades left \"El Correo\" during the Mellista breakup in the party. The same year he became editor-in-chief of \"El Pensamiento Español\", a journal intended to be the piecemouth of the new Mellist party, and kept managing the paper until it ceased to exist in 1923.\n\nDuring the dictatorship Abánades co-operated with a vast array of dailies, be it national ones like \"El Día\" and \"\" or local ones, like the Gipuzkoan \"\" or the Toledan \"El Castellano\", contributing also to weeklies like \"La Ilustración Española y Americana\" or \"Le Touriste\" and unsuccessfully renewing attempts to manage own periodicals. During the Republic he contributed initially to \"\", in 1932 emerging as its top comentator, though starting 1933 he switched mostly to \"El Siglo Futuro\", formally entering its editorial board. He kept publishing also in other Catholic papers, be it local dailies like Navarrese \"\" and even Canarian \"Gaceta de Tenerife\" or weeklies like \"\". He is not known to have published in two leading national newspapers, the monarchist \"ABC\" and the Catholic \"El Debate\".\n\nAfter the Civil War Abánades was active mostly in Prensa Asociata, the agency he formed part of already before the war and where he remained during the early Francoist years. He also briefly managed an unidentified periodical named “Lúmen” and collaborated with a number of other titles, above all with \"\", one of key dailies in the Falangist propaganda machinery. In the 1940s he became one of the seniors of the Spanish press corps; in 1947, 50 years after commencing his newspaper career, he was awarded the order of Alfonso X the Wise as “veterano periodista” and was later named Periodista de Honor by , becoming its oldest member. His latest newspaper piece identified comes from 1969.\n\nApart from privately owned, small and ephemeral newspapers, Abánades was heading a major periodical only during his 1919–1923 tenure at \"El Pensamiento Español\"; he is also known as forming part of editorial board of \"El Correo Español\" and \"El Siglo Futuro\". None of the sources consulted claims he headed a section or held jobs in middle management editorial structures; in case of the remaining 30-odd titles he seems to have contributed as a correspondent. Though his juvenile pieces covered a wide range of topics, later on Abánades specialised in three areas. He supplied weeklies and in some cases dailies with articles focusing on history of Spain and Castile in particular, often a byproduct of his own research. As editor-in-chief of \"El Pensamiento Español\" he took part in ongoing political debates, advocating political cause of the Mellistas; later on, during the 1920s and especially the 1930s, this thread was transformed as writings on history and doctrine of Traditionalism, usually formatted as more or less direct homages to Vazquez de Mella. However, he made his name mostly as foreign affairs comentator.\n\nHis writings, usually medium-size essays of some 500 words, followed major events; their author aimed to inform the readers about international background of specific developments, their logic and implications. Some of them appear questionable; his piece on the Greek revolution of 1922 seems to confuse cause and effect. Most turned out to be quite accurate, like his 1923 prediction that having won the war France found itself isolated and was not in position to safeguard status quo negotiated in Versailles, or his 1932 analysis denouncing European collective security systems as unstable and forecasting the advent of power-based politics. Most of Abánades’ comments were plagued by political bias, especially by his anti-Republican and anti-British views. He was the first to note that the Greek Republic would end up in trouble and the first to speculate how developments in Ireland or in India would work to London’s disadvantage.\n\nAbánades’ vision of European political developments in the 1930s was derived from his germanophile and conservative outlook. Sympathetic towards the Central Powers during the First World War, he considered Versailles treaty responsible for long-lasting crisis in international relations. Before Hitler’s ascension to power he noted that his party was “admirably organized on the national basis“ and hoped that ruled by the Rightist alliance, Germany would be an example to follow when it comes to confronting “communists, anarchists and those who support them with money, namely the Jews and their branch, the freemasonry”. Following the assassination of Dolfuss he shifted his sympathy to the Belgian Rexists and in particular to the Italian Fascists. Always demonstrating respect and esteem for Benito Mussolini, he titled his 1936 commentary on Abyssinian war “Italia tiene su Imperio”, the headline with a highly nostalgic tone in Spain; he did not miss the opportunity to declare the British the true losers of the conflict.\n\nApart from his work as a journalist Abánades was active also as a writer. He published a number of books and booklets; he wrote some of them himself, some were co-authored and in some cases he edited writings produced by the others. His work falls chiefly into 3 areas: drama, history and Carlism, the last two at times hardly distinguishable.\n\nHis original contribution consists mostly of historical works related to the Alcarra region. The first to be mentioned is \"El Señorío de Molina. Estudio histórico geográfico\", monumental 6-volume study which has never been published; its scaled-down versions were \"La Ciudad de Molina\" (1952), \"El Real Señorío Molinés. Compendio de su historia\" (1966), \"Diego Sánchez Portocarrero\" (1966) and \"Tierra molinesa. Breve estudio geográfico de sus pueblo\" (1969), leaving also other related unedited studies in the archive. Somewhat different focus is at work at \"La Reina del Señorío\" (1929), the work dedicated to sanctuary of , the works on local history completed by \"El alcazar de Molina: la Fábrica de Artillería de Corduente\" (1963). Among a number of historical publications unrelated to Guadalajara province, \"Apuntes, para una Historia, del Colegio de Madrid de Doctores y Licenciados en Ciencias y Letras\" (1949) provides valuable insight into the history of Madrid educational structures. Finally, other historical studies remain in manuscript. In recognition of his merits, Abánades was nominated Cronista Oficial and Hijo Predilecto of Molina de Aragón.\n\nAbánades’ contribution to Carlist literature is probably mostly about his monumental, 31-volume edition of all works of Vazquez de Mella, published in the 1930s and supplemented by own synthetic attempt, \"Doctrina tradicionalista de las obras de Mella\" (1935). Works retaining historical profile are \"La Casa de los Tradicionalistas\" (1918), \"Leyendas y Tradiciones\" (1923), \"Carlos V de España\" (1935), \"Centenario del Tradicionalismo Español\" (1935), \"Carlos VI, Conde de Montemolín\" (1936), \"Carlos VII, Duque de Madrid\" (1936), \"Balmes\" (1936), \"Las predicciones de Mella\" (1940) and \"Dinastia insobornable\" (1962). Finally, publications intended as current political leaflets are \"Filosofía de la vida\" (1911), \"El peligro de España\" (1914), \"El año germanófilo\" (1915), \"La legitimidad\" and \"¿Quién es el Rey, de derecho en España?\" (1916), \"La resurrección de Don Quijote\" (1921), \"Un verano, por el Mediodía de Francia\" (1928) and \"Gibraltar y Tánger\" (1929).\n\nThe last and the least-known part of Abánades’ works is this related to the theatre. Probably in the very early years of the 20th century he wrote \"La mano de una madre\", a drama played at various opportunities at Teatro Calderón in Molina in 1901. In the late 1920s and early 1930s he was active in Madrid as amateur actor in cultural associations like Sociedad Española de Arte; he also founded a theatrical group “Nosotros”, based in Casa de Guadalajara in Madrid and active between 1934 and 1938. Finally, Abánades kept delivering public lectures, be it either on history of Molina, on Virgen de la Hoz or on de Mella and Traditionalist doctrine.\n\nIn the late 19th century the Guadalajara provincial Carlism lost much of its previous appeal, reduced mostly to support among peasantry. Nothing is known of political preferences of Pedro Abánades Jiménez, though he was allegedly proud of his son’s beginnings of a conservative Catholic publisher. Apart from journalism, Claro served the cause also as an enthusiastic local Carlist activist; in 1896 he was elected president of Juventud Católica in Molina and co-founded La Benéfica Molinesa, a Catholic social fund. Thanks to his work Señorio de Molina became the most dynamic Carlist county in the province, though he animated party structures also beyond Castile; he is noted as active in the neighboring Teruel, e.g. in 1897 co-organising the propaganda tour of marquis de Cerralbo. Following the death of provincial leader, José de Sagarmínaga, the new one Pablo Marín Alonso considered Abánades one of the future alcarreña leaders and directed him towards the press propaganda, possibly resulting in launching two periodicals in 1906 and 1908.\n\nDuring a Juventud Jaimista homage meeting in a Madrid restaurant in 1911 Abánades first met Juan Vazquez de Mella, the encounter which shaped his political future and theoretical outlook for the rest of his life. He immediately became one of de Mella’s followers, the faction increasingly at odds with the Carlist claimant. Though during the First World War Jaime III officially backed neutral stance leaning towards the Entente, in 1915 Abánades together with Manuel Abelló and de Mella published \"El año germanófilo\", dubbed “perfect manual of a germanophile”, and kept delivering pro-German lectures. It was de Mella who invited him to join \"El Correo Español\", the official party newspaper that two opposing Carlist factions competed to control. Finally, in 1919 Abánades followed de Mella when he was expulsed from the party. \n\nThe years of 1919–1923 mark the climax of Abánades’ political career, as it was the only period when he emerged from the party back benches. Though he did not hold any major posts in the newly emergent Mellist organization, and by historians he is not counted among key Mellistas, he was entrusted with the task of managing the party newspaper, \"El Pensamiento Español\". Abánades propagated political line of his leader, speaking against taking any official posts, lambasting idea of a right-wing monarchist party and especially voicing mistrust towards some conciliatory gestures made by Alfonso XIII versus Traditionalism. He advocated derogation of and building an entirely new Traditionalist regime, possibly based on military dictatorship. At the time when political system of Restauración was falling into pieces and two major were rapidly disintegrating, it might have appeared that an anti-establishment extreme-Right alliance envisioned by de Mella could grow into a major player on the Spanish political scene. However, Mellismo proved ineffective as agglutinatory force and decomposed in the early 1920s; \"El Pensamiento Español\" ceasing to exist.\n\nUnlike most Mellistas who left the party to pursue their career elsewhere, Abánades was one of the few faithful and remained also a personal friend of Mella, who withdrew from politics. This boiled down to his political isolation during Primo de Rivera dictatorship; Abánades was active neither in semi-official Carlist structures nor in official primoderiverista institutions. In 1931–1932 together with many already orphaned former Mellistas he reconciled with the new Carlist king Alfonso Carlos and joined the united Carlist organization, . He did not assume major posts, merely forming part of Junta del Círculo Tradicionalista de Madrid. His contribution to the cause consisted mostly of propaganda activities: press articles, books, booklets and semi-scholarly lectures. Second-row speaker, he was usually not mentioned in press headlines. His modest personal victory was getting elected to Madrid educational board, hailed by conservative press as “triumph of the Right”.\n\nIt is not clear whether Abánades was involved or aware of the forthcoming coup of July 1936; none of the sources consulted provides also any information about his whereabouts during the Civil War and the very first years of Francoism. A single author claims he joined those Carlists who estranged the intransigent regent-claimant Don Javier and aligned themselves with the amalgamation line; indeed in 1943 he is noted as paying homage to founders of Falange and involved in the Francoist propaganda, especially \"El Alcazar\". On the other hand, at the same time he was recorded as active in Academia Vazquez de Mella, a semi-official Carlist cultural enterprise; In the 1940s he joined supporters of Karl Pius, styled as the Carlist claimant Carlos VIII, though at that time he was engaged mostly in religious projects, culminating in crowning of Virgen de la Hoz as Reina de Molina de Aragón. \n\nOnce Carlism abandoned its opposition strategy in the mid-1950s Abánades was awkwardly involved in a new internal power struggle. At that time a young generation of socially minded activists, grouped around prince Carlos Hugo, launched their bid to take control of Carlism. It was they who benefitted most from the new rapprochement policy towards Francoism, as javieristas controlled many new Carlist institutions, now officially permitted by the regime. One of them was Círculos Culturales Vázquez de Mella, soon formatted by the socialist youth as means of disseminating their vision. Not yet ready for open challenge, they invited older Carlists as front-men, supposed to provide them with Traditionalist credentials. Abánades was probably not aware of the plot when elected president of Junta Nacional de los Círculos Vázquez de Mella in 1959, later becoming the honorary president. In the early 1960s - officially reconciled with the Javierista Carlists - he was celebrated by Carlos Hugo and his faction, awarded orders, presiding over official homages to de Mella, quoted as authority on his writings and receiving flattering letters from the prince. In 1969 he published his last article identified, printed in the Carlist periodical.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "141954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=141954", "title": "Edmond de Goncourt", "text": "Edmond de Goncourt\n\nEdmond de Goncourt (26 May 182216 July 1896), born Edmond Louis Antoine Huot de Goncourt, was a French writer, literary critic, art critic, book publisher and the founder of the Académie Goncourt.\n\nGoncourt was born in Nancy. For much of his life, he collaborated with his brother Jules creating works of art criticism, a notorious journal, and subsequently several novels. He also collected rare books, including a copy of Pierre Rameau's 1725 \"Abbregé de la nouvelle Methode, dans L'Art D'Ecrire ou De Tracer toutes sortes de Danses de Ville\" (New Abridged Method for writing or tracing all sorts of country dances). After the death of Jules he continued to write novels alone.\n\nHe bequeathed his entire estate for the foundation and maintenance of the Académie Goncourt. In honour of his brother and collaborator, Jules de Goncourt (17 December 183020 June 1870), each December since 1903, the Académie awards the Prix Goncourt. It is the most prestigious prize in French language literature, given to \"the best imaginary prose work of the year\".\n\nMarcel Proust, Simone de Beauvoir, Michel Tournier, Marguerite Duras, Romain Gary (who exceptionally won it twice) and Nobel Prize Patrick Modiano are among the best-known authors who have won the century-old prize.\n\nEdmond de Goncourt died in Champrosay in 1896, and was interred in the Cimetière de Montmartre in Paris.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7813142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7813142", "title": "Edner Brutus", "text": "Edner Brutus\n\nEdner Brutus (1911–1980) was a Haitian politician, diplomat, and historian. He served as foreign minister of Haiti from 1974 to 1978, and as a historian he is best known for his book \"Révolution dans Saint-Domingue\" (1969). His father, Timoléon C. Brutus, was also a prominent politician and historian.\n\n"}
{"id": "5793818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5793818", "title": "Eisenhower jacket", "text": "Eisenhower jacket\n\nThe Eisenhower jacket, or \"Ike\" jacket, is a type of waist length jacket or blouson developed for the U.S. Army during the later stages of World War II. Intended to be worn on its own or as an insulating layer beneath the M-43 Field Jacket, it featured a pleated back, adjustable waist band, fly-front buttons, bellows chest pockets, slash side pockets, and shoulder straps.\n\nUntil the late-1930s, the United States Army’s field uniform consisted of a wool shirt, mid-hip-length \"all-purpose service coat\" and wool overcoat. Save for its belted waist, the single-breasted service coat resembled a suit or sport coat more than a uniform. Little changed since World War I, it featured notched lapels and five metal buttons from its open collar to its belted waist. Made of heavy wool serge, it touted two flapped and button-through patch pockets at the breast and two identically styled patch pockets below its belted waist – its four pockets either box-pleated or bellows-styled-pleats.\n\nUsing civilian \"windbreakers\" as its ideal design objective, the army began a four-year study in 1935 to develop a more practical and effective combat jacket to replace the service coat.\n\nIn 1940, it first adopted the first pattern field jacket, the \"Parsons Jacket\" named for Major General James K. Parsons who helped with its development. This was quickly followed by an updated pattern, using the same nomenclature. Simply designed and modeled after a civilian windbreaker made by John Rissman & Sons of Chicago, it was a short, button-front weatherproof jacket with a tight fitting waist and two flapped and button-through front pockets.\n\nIn early 1943, front-line skirmishes in North Africa and Europe proved the Service Coat, as well as the field jacket, inappropriate for combat. The Service Coat was re-designated for garrison and parade duty and the field jacket was replaced by a new and completely redesigned Field Jacket, M-1943.\n\nAlthough the Field Jacket, O.D. (more widely known as the \"Parsons Jacket\" or the modern term \"M41 Jacket\") was widely used in many theaters during World War II, it was found to be an unsatisfactory solution for the soldiers using it. The War Department created a new field jacket based on the layering principle to give greater flexibility for the numerous environmental conditions encountered in the world-wide war.\n\nBuilt around the layering principle, the M-1943 became the basic building block of a multi-environment, all-season combat uniform being developed by the Office of the Quartermaster General (OQMG) for worldwide combat.\n\nOn May 15, 1943, the Air Transport Command (ATC) recommended development of a short, waist cropped woolen field jacket that could be worn under the M-1943 as an added insulator.\n\nBy mid-1944, the OQMG finalized the several layering components of its multi-environment combat uniform, anointing the M-1943 Field Jacket its basic, universal building block. A completely new design, the M-1943 touted a wind-proof, olive drab colored cotton poplin outer shell with internal layers that could be added or eliminated depending on local battle conditions. In cold environs, its notched lapels converted to a stand-up, storm-flap for added neck protections. A pile jacket liner and fur-edged hood could also be added.\n\nDuring the Autumn of 1943, the Army Air Corps prototype jacket was sent to Chief Quartermaster of the European Theater of Operations for review and possible adoption by ETO commanding general, Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\nEisenhower had already requested a waist-cropped style; stemming from his appreciation of the functionality of the British battle jacket, \"but with more distinctive style.\"\n\nThe M-44 jacket that emerged was fundamentally a waist-length M-43, with some improvements. Made of olive drab 18-ounce wool serge, it shared the notched lapel \"storm collar\", snag-free \"fly front\" buttons and flapped, bellows breast pockets, shoulder straps for gear retention, and roomy sleeves to accommodate insulating layers.\n\nStaggered cuff buttons adjusted for layering or allowed a loose fit in warmer conditions, as did adjustable waist buckles. A pair of \"action-back\" pleats extended from shoulder to waistband, providing freedom of movement with a slim fit. Intended to be worn on its own or underneath the M-43, the \"Ike jacket\", was classified standard issue in November 1944, and additionally designated as the Army’s dress and parade uniform.\n\nAccording to Paul Fussell’s Uniforms, \"Eisenhower had a reputation among his troops as an eminently decent man, friendly and sympathetic,\" an admiration that Ike elevated even further, tells Fussell, by having the bravado to casually rest his hands inside his pocket and \"violate the sacred Army injunction.\" That anecdote, Fussell says, explains why Eisenhower refused to adorn his personal jacket with gilded buttons: He considered his jacket an every-warrior’s combat uniform. Eisenhower died in 1969 and was buried dressed in his famous short green jacket.\n\nFollowing the Guadalcanal Campaign, the 1st Marine Division under Major General Alexander Vandegrift were posted to the cooler climate of Melbourne Australia. As the Marines only had dungarees and tan summer uniforms, they were issued Australian army battle dress with the Marines calling the short jacket the Vandegrift Jacket. An American made forest green version was issued to officers in December 1944 and to enlisted Marines in August 1945. The Vandegrift jacket was retained until 1960.\n\nPost-World War II development of the U.S. field jacket was momentous. In 1947, the Army introduced a shorter and better tailored version of the M-44. Designated the MQ-1 and designed solely as a dress and parade uniform, the jacket was again refined in 1950 and re-introduced as the M-1950 Field Jacket, but without button cuffs. With the later introduction of the \"Army green\" U.S. Army service uniform in 1957, the Ike jacket gradually began to disappear domestically but was still a uniform option for troops stationed in international theaters.\n\nIn 1947, the United States Air Force (USAF) added still another Ike jacket design iteration, the M-47, and continued its use for the next two years, before changing its color to \"Air Force blue\" in 1949, where it remained a signature of the USAF, until being retired in 1964.\n\nThe design of the M-1943 jacket was to prove so successful that many military forces around the world still wear field jackets that closely follow its original designs. During the 1950s, a modified version, called the M-1950, was issued to U.S. forces in Korea. It had a button-in liner instead of the separate liner garment as in the M-1943. During the next year, the sometimes permanently hooded, M-1951 coat came into use. It was another very similar design, but now had both a zip instead of buttons under the front fly and metal snap closures for the pockets. The M-1951 field jacket was actually not sent to the forces in Korea until after the 1953 armistice and so was not seen during the Korean War. It thus remained in service until replaced by the M-1965 field jacket in 1965.\n\nThanks to its greater comfort and the unobstructed ease it offered while operating a vehicle or brandishing a side-arm, the Ike jacket design became a popular post-WWII uniform staple among Federal and state law enforcement agencies as well as with countless numbers of municipal and civilian police departments throughout America.\n\nTo this day, uniforms of the U.S. Border Patrol, along with most allied agencies within its broader, umbrella department, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency (USCBPA) and the National Park Service (NPS) have a dress jacket that is nearly identical to the Ike jacket original.\n\n"}
{"id": "27628900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27628900", "title": "Emilio Comba", "text": "Emilio Comba\n\nEmilio Comba (1839–1904) was a celebrated Waldensian pastor and historian.\n\n\nIn 1922 the Waldensian school was transferred from Florence to Rome with Emilio's son Teofilo Ernesto Comba as professor of the theological faculty. \nErnesto Comba presented arguments to demonstrate that the name Waldenses derived from valley (\"vallis densa\" valdensis) and that they already existed before the time of Peter Waldo.\n"}
{"id": "57808365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57808365", "title": "George Cockburn Henderson", "text": "George Cockburn Henderson\n\nGeorge Cockburn Henderson (1 May 1870 – c. 9 April 1944) was an Australian academic with a considerable career in Adelaide.\n\nCockburn was born in Hamilton, New South Wales, the eighth of nine children of Richard T. Henderson (c. 1830–1897) and was educated at Hamilton and Lawrence public schools. He passed the public instruction examination at age 13 and was admitted to Macquarie Superior Public School as a pupil teacher under his brother Richard Henderson. In December 1889 he won a £72 \"per annum\" scholarship to the Fort Street Training College. He matriculated the following March and in so doing won two-years' free tuition at Sydney University, later extended by another year.\n\nHe graduated BA in March 1893, winning a gold medal in philosophy, the Fraser Scholarship in History, and the James King of Irrawang Travelling Scholarship of £110 for two years, and in 1894 he enrolled at Balliol College, Oxford, where he was awarded a Brackenbury Scholarship in history which funded his studies there to the value of £80 \"per annum\" for five years. He also excelled at athletics and was a leading oarsman and member of the Balliol crew at the Henley and Oxford races. He graduated MA and was employed in various parts of England as a University extension lecturer. In recognition of his highly successful work, he was promoted by the Oxford extension delegacy to first-class lecturer.\n\nIn 1898 he accepted a position at Sydney University as Acting Professor of History, while Professor Wood was on holiday in England. On 5 January 1899, two days before leaving, he married May Gertrude Sturge, a niece of John Bright and of Joseph Sturge, at the Friends' Meeting Place, Leicester, England. They arrived in Sydney aboard the P & O steamer \"Oceana\" in late February.\nA second acting Professorship, of Philosophy, arose at Sydney University, which Henderson filled, in 1900 returning to England, living at Kingham, and at Charlbury, in Oxfordshire, the home of his wife's parents.\n\nEarly in 1902 Henderson was invited to give a course of lectures in Sydney, and while he was in Australia Professor Douglas peremptorily resigned, and the University of Adelaide offered him the chair of History (or perhaps his friend William Mitchell, professor of English and Philosophy, persuaded him to apply); he accepted and took up residence in North Adelaide. He attempted to persuade his wife to join him, but she repeatedly declined. By 1910 she was living with one Richard Henry Gretton, and Henderson instituted divorce proceedings. Henderson was spending much of his spare time at the Adelaide Club.\n\nIn 1921 Mrs G. A. Jury made a bequest to the University, which enabled Henderson's dual responsibilities to be divided: A. T. Strong was appointed to the Jury professorship of English Literature in 1922, and Henderson retained the Professorship of Modern History.\nOn 27 October 1922 Henderson married Dr. Annie Heloise Abel (1873–1947), an English-born Professor of History in America, with an interest in American colonial history.\nThey settled on a rural property at Blackwood, but she was unhappy; he suffered a nervous breakdown and was hospitalised in June 1923 and insisted she leave him; they divorced on the grounds of incompatibility. Henderson's resignation from the University was accepted reluctantly and he was awarded the title of Professor Emeritus.\n\nHe moved to Dora Creek, New South Wales in 1923. He continued his historical researches; notably on Abel Tasman with M. Wieder, the Dutch historian.\n\nHe was cared for over the course of 20 years by his niece Elsie Henderson, who lived next door to his \"cozy villa\". When the pair visited England in 1936 he arranged for Elsie to be presented to the court of King Edward VIII (later Duke of Windsor).\nIt was she who found him on 9 April 1944 near the road on his property, throat slit, with a razor under his body.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2659806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2659806", "title": "Glasgow Chronology", "text": "Glasgow Chronology\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology is a proposed revision of the Egyptian chronology of ancient Egypt. It was first formulated between the years 1978 and 1982 by a working group following the Glasgow Conference of Society for Interdisciplinary Studies (SIS, a non-profit organization advocating serious academic analysis of the writings of Immanuel Velikovsky and other catastrophists).\n\nThis chronology placed the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt some five hundred years later than the conventional chronology of Egypt.\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology was initially presented at an SIS conference, held in 1978 in Glasgow and entitled \"Ages in Chaos?\". Flaws were pointed out in it almost immediately, and by the 1980s its original proponents had all abandoned it, in favour of other chronologies.\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology accepted all the character identifications proposed by Velikovsky in \"Ages in Chaos\" (1952). Thus Hatshepsut, who visited the Divine Land, was equated with the Queen of Sheba, who visited Solomon in Jerusalem, whilst Thutmose III, who followed Hatshepsut, was equated with Shishak, who plundered the Jerusalem temple after the death of Solomon. Velikovsky therefore reduced the age of the Eighteenth Dynasty by five centuries. However, in his subsequently published \"Ramses II and his Time\" (1978), he brought the Nineteenth dynasty down by roughly seven centuries, thus opening a two-century gap between the Eighteenth and Nineteenth dynasties. Despite the Glasgow Chronology intent of reducing the age of the Nineteenth dynasty by five centuries and allowing it to naturally follow from the Eighteenth dynasty, its original proponents concluded that it was historically insupportable.\n\n"}
{"id": "4220599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4220599", "title": "Great Contract", "text": "Great Contract\n\nThe Great Contract was a plan submitted to James I and Parliament in 1610 by Robert Cecil. It was an attempt to increase Crown income and ultimately rid it of debt. \n\nCecil suggested that, in return for an annual grant of £200,000, the Crown should give up its feudal rights of Wardship and Purveyance, as well as New Impositions. The plan was eventually rejected by both James and Parliament: the failure of his cherished project was thought by some to have hastened Cecil's early death in 1612, although it is most likely that he died of cancer. The King withdrew from the contract because it meant that he would lose a useful means of controlling his more powerful subjects, and he also did not think £200,000 was a worthy substitute for his feudal rights. The House of Commons withdrew because they were wary of providing an income that might give the King financial independence. \n\nWhether it would have helped the financial situation remains a matter of speculation. It has been argued that the financial settlement at the Restoration of Charles II was partly inspired by the Great Contract. On the other hand, James I was rather extravagant in financial matters, and it is uncertain whether the Contract would have been a permanent solution of his difficulties. It is also important to consider how, at the point of Elizabeth's death, the Crown was £400,000 in debt, considering that Elizabeth ran a rather frugal court and was careful with money, and thus the financial problems of James' reign were not all of his own making. Furthermore, it must also be said that James, who had a wife and, by 1605, four children to support, had many legitimate expenses which the unmarried and childless Elizabeth did not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44890145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44890145", "title": "Green Street Trust", "text": "Green Street Trust\n\nThe Green Street Trust was an Irish company incorporated in 1990 with charitable status. Its aim was to promote urban renewal in disadvantaged inner city areas through the rehabilitation of historic buildings for contemporary use and where possible to secure multiple uses within individual buildings. The Trust obtained a 99 year lease from the Office of Public Works (OPW) of the former Debtors’ Prison situated on Halston Street and Green Street in Dublin’s north inner city and undertook restoration works to the building to plans prepared by McCullough Mulvin Architects.\n\nIn August 1992 a group of volunteers from Voluntary Service International carried out restoration works to the building. In 1994 the Trust ran a carpentry and joinery course as a Fás Community Youth Training Project to replace the timber sash windows in the building that were in poor condition. The Trust carried out substantial works to refurbish the Debtors’ Prison in the 1990s but due to escalating building costs and a lack of funding construction work ceased and the Trust handed back the lease to the OPW.\n\nMost of its directors of the company had been members of Students Against the Destruction of Dublin. The directors included Tony Connelly, Frank Cooney, Ciarán Cuffe, Deryck Fay (Company Secretary), Emma Kelly, Garret Kelly, Ger Lambert, Richard Lyons, Eunan McLaughlin, Rachel McRory (Chair), Colm Murray, Jerome Ó Drisceoil, Colmán Ó Siochrú, and Blaise Smith.\n\nIts patrons were Dermot Egan, The Knight of Glin, Justice Niall McCarthy, Dr. Edward McParland, John O’Connor, Breege O’Donaghue, Ruairí Quinn TD, Nicholas Robinson, Gerry Walker and Dr. Pat Wallace.\n"}
{"id": "3813072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3813072", "title": "Hilti", "text": "Hilti\n\nHilti Corporation (Hilti Aktiengesellschaft or Hilti AG, also known as Hilti Group) is a Liechtenstein multinational company that develops, manufactures, and markets products for the construction, building maintenance, energy and manufacturing industries, mainly to the professional end-user. It concentrates mainly on anchoring systems, fire protection systems, installation systems, measuring and detection tools (such as laser levels, range meters and line lasers), power tools (such as hammer drills, demolition hammers, diamond drills, cordless electric drills, heavy angle drills, power saws) and related software and services.\n\nHilti, a registered trademark of the various Hilti corporate entities, is the family name of the company's founders.\n\nIn 1941, the Hilti company was founded by Martin and Eugen Hilti, with the opening of a mechanical workshop in Schaan, Liechtenstein. Martin Hilti was trained in mechanical engineering and automotive design at the Wismar Engineering College and was 26 at the time of founding the company. The Martin Hilti Family Trust holds all of Hilti's registered shares as of 2003.\n\nHilti OHG began as a company that produced equipment and components on contract for the German industry during World War II. The exports went largely to Maybach Motorenbau in Friedrichshafen and Robert Bosch in Stuttgart. The products included tank parts and ammunition components for the Nazi war effort. \n\nAfter the war there was a sharp decline in sales and the company was close to bankruptcy. To make ends meet Martin Hilti signed sub-contracts as diverse as gray cast iron parts for the Swiss textile industry, machining eggcups molds, or lighters and pencil sharpeners . In the late 1940s Martin Hilti found a technology that would allow setting nails into concrete or masonry, and he acquired the original designs and the patents rights of what would later become Hilti's Direct Fastening first tool. Although promising, the technology proved to be immature, and required significant development. In the meantime, through the early 1950s, Hilti produced its own line of household products, which included a cigarette lighter, and a water-powered kitchen mixer called \"Ello\", which enjoyed considerable success. In 1952, with a solution that proved mature to be marketed, Hilti launched its first construction-related product, a manual tool to drive threaded studs into steel, and in 1953 the company introduced its first powder-actuated high-velocity fastener that allowed setting nails into concrete, called Perfix. \n\nAt this time Hilti opened own offices in Italy, Belgium, Poland, Finland, Norway, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Portugal, Austria, France, Australia, Canada and the USA. In 1963 Hilti was present in 23 countries, with a turnover of over 400 million Swiss Francs.\n\nIn 1964 Hilti started marketing a drill that also had a chiselling function, made by the Kocher Company, in Basel, under the name \"Torna 765\". After receiving customer feedback Hilti started a product development and improvement project under the name \"Torna Entwicklung\" (German for \"Torna Development\"), or \"TE\" for short, which has since then become the standard name for all Hilti electropneumatic tools. In 1967 the company introduced the TE17, a fully electropneumatic rotary hammer drill which featured a safety clutch, and it was shipped to customers in Hilti's first distinctive red toolbox.\n\nThe global expansion continued throughout the 1960s and by 1971, Hilti's global turnover was 376 million Swiss Francs across 45 countries, including new production facilities in Austria and in Germany. \n\nIn 1974 Hilti started to develop and market mechanical metal anchors, and in 1977 Hilti introduced its first chemical anchor product line. Two more production facilities were opened, a plastic manufacturing plant in Germany purchased in 1975 and a plant in England acquired in 1978. In 1979 the company opened another production facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma, USA, to produce anchors. During the 1980s Hilti formed market region centers for America, Europe, Africa and Asia, to improve the proximity to their customers.\n\nIn 2018 Hilti has offices in 90 countries and sales of over 5 billion Swiss Francs.\n\nHilti is based in Schaan, Liechtenstein, and is the principality's largest employer. The company employs more than 28,000 people worldwide.\n\nHilti has over 2,500 employees in the United States. HNA's headquarters had been located in Tulsa, Oklahoma, since 1979, although it has employees in all fifty states. It moved its North American headquarters from Tulsa to Plano, Texas by June 2015 and opened a research and development center in Irving, Texas.\n\nHNA developed an employee corporate culture that was later adopted by the entire company worldwide. Employees who are hired are put through a Basic Training Seminar in Tulsa for four weeks, and on a yearly basis employees complete a survey called GEOS (Global Employee Opinion Survey) in which they give feedback about the company.\n\nHilti Northern Europe is headquartered in the Hilti Limited office in Manchester, Great Britain. The Hilti (Gt. Britain) office oversees a staff of over 1000 team members in varying roles such as sales, engineering, marketing, finance, HR, IT, procurement and customer services.\n\nHilti India is headquartered in the Hilti India Pvt Ltd office in Gurugram, Haryana. It has started its direct operations in India in 1997. The Hilti India Pvt Ltd office oversees a staff of over 800 team members in varying roles such as sales, engineering, marketing, finance, HR, IT, procurement and customer services. They have their stores in 23 major cities across India.\n\nHilti India has secured the 2nd rank in the Construction and Real Estate industry and stood 83rd amongst companies of different sizes and sectors, which participated in 2017 Great Place to Work® competition\n\n"}
{"id": "29098915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29098915", "title": "James R. A. Bailey", "text": "James R. A. Bailey\n\nJames Richard Abe Bailey, (23 October 1919 – 29 February 2000), often known as Jim Bailey, was an Anglo-South African World War II fighter pilot, writer, poet and publisher. He was the founder of \"Drum\", the most widely read magazine in Africa.\n\nBorn in London on 23 October 1919, Bailey was the son of Sir Abe Bailey and pioneer aviator Dame Mary Bailey, Jim Bailey was educated at Winchester College and Christ Church Oxford. At the outbreak of the Second World War, he was called up from the Oxford University Air Squadron and joined the Royal Air Force as a pilot in September 1939. He served with 264 and 85 Squadrons, flying Defiants, Hurricanes and Beaufighters.\n\nIn 1951 he provided financial backing to Bob Crisp to start a magazine called \"African Drum\" based in Cape Town, and aimed at a Black readership, but as readership dropped, Bailey took full control. The monthly magazine was renamed to simply \"Drum\" and the head office moved to Johannesburg. Anthony Sampson was appointed editor. Bailey also founded in 1955 the \"Golden City Post\", the country's first black Sunday tabloid.\n\nBailey's book \"The God-Kings and the Titans: The New World Ascendancy in Ancient Times\" (1973) was a controversial work on pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact, which claimed that thousands of years before Columbus Mediterranean sea voyagers among other peoples from the Old World landed on both the Atlantic and Pacific shores of America. The book has been referenced by many pseudohistoric writers.\n\nBailey died in 2000, aged 80, from colon cancer. He was survived by his second wife, Barbara (\"née\" Epstein, whom he married in 1962), and by four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "15962282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15962282", "title": "Jean Chapeauville", "text": "Jean Chapeauville\n\nJean Chapeauville (b. at Liège, 5 January 1551; d. there 11 May 1617) was a Belgian theologian and historian.\n\nHe made his philosophical studies at the University of Cologne and University of Louvain, and at the latter received the degree of Licentiate of Theology. He then entered the priesthood, and in 1578 was appointed one of the synodal examiners for the Diocese of Liège, and in 1579 parish priest of St. Michael's in the same city. He performed the functions of the latter office for about ten years.\n\nHaving been a canon of the collegiate church of St. Peter's in Liège since 1582, he was elevated in 1599 to the dignity of a provost of the same church. In 1587, Pope Sixtus V appointed him the first penitentiary canon of St. Lambert's Cathedral. On 12 June 1600, he was promoted to the archdeaconship of Famenne.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1582, he had been nominated Inquisitor of the Faith, and in 1598, Ernest of Bavaria, Bishop of Liège, appointed him vicar-general, in which office he was retained, despite his protests, by Bishop Ernest's successor, Ferdinand of Bavaria.\n\nHe taught theology with great success in several monasteries of Liège and published works on theological subjects. He endeavoured to enforce in the diocese the reforms decided upon by the Council of Trent, particularly the establishment of a clerical seminary and the concursus for the nomination of parish priests.\n\nHe published a collection of the chief works on the history of the bishops of Liège, and wrote an account of the episcopate of Liège, commencing with Erard de la Marck (1506) and ending with the year 1613. His principal works are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26711023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26711023", "title": "Joseph Glynn", "text": "Joseph Glynn\n\nSir Joseph Glynn (16 August 1869 – after 1943) was an Irish politician, knight and historian.\n\nGlynn was the son of John McMahon Glynn of Gort, County Galway. His older brother Paddy Glynn emigrated to Australia and became a government minister. Educated at Blackrock College, he became a solicitor in 1890. Nine years later he was elected to Galway County Council and acted as its chairman from 1902 to 1912.\n\nGlynn served as chairman of the Natural Insurance Commissioners from 1911 to 1933. He was knighted in 1915. While President of the Irish Council of St. Vincent de Paul, he was admitted to the Order of St. Gregory the Great. He was also a leading member of An Ríoghacht.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22332909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22332909", "title": "Kathryn M. Daynes", "text": "Kathryn M. Daynes\n\nKathryn M. \"Kathy\" Daynes (born 1946) is a professor of history at Brigham Young University (BYU) and a historian of Mormonism, specializing in Mormon polygamy. She was president of the Mormon History Association in 2008 and 2009.\n\nDaynes began her studies as an undergraduate at BYU in 1964. However, she interrupted her studies and resumed them about ten years later at DePauw University, where she received her bachelors in history. She then went on to receive an M.A. and a Ph.D. in history, both from Indiana University, completing the latter in 1991. Daynes has been an instructor or faculty member at BYU since 1991.\n\nDaynes is married to Byron (Bill) Daynes, a professor of political science at BYU. They are the parents of three children. Daynes was appointed the director of the Center for Family History and Genealogy at BYU in 2007.\n\nDaynes is the author of the book \"More Wives than One: Transformation of the Mormon Marriage System, 1840-1910\". Among her major articles are \"Annual Tax Rolls from the Revolution to 1850: Mining Deep for Genealogical Gold\" in the \"Genealogical Journal\" 28, no. 4 (Dec. 2000), \"Single Men in Polygamous Society: Male Marriage Patterns in Manti, Utah\" in \"Journal of Mormon History\" 24 (Spring 1998), p. 89-111 and \"Family Ties: Belief and Practice in Nauvoo\" in the \"John Whitmer Historical Association Journal\", 8 (1988) p. 63-75.\n\nIn addition to her studies on Mormon polygamy and its social aspects, Daynes has written on broader topics in the history of families and marriage in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "16005867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16005867", "title": "Legacy of Che Guevara", "text": "Legacy of Che Guevara\n\nThe legacy of Argentine Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara (June 14, 1928 – October 9, 1967) is constantly evolving in the collective imagination. As a ubiquitous symbol of counterculture worldwide, Guevara is one of the most recognizable and influential revolutionary figures of the twentieth century. However, during his life, and even more since his death, Che has elicited controversy and wildly divergent opinions as to who he was and what he represented. Mostly revered and occasionally reviled, he is passionately characterized along the entire continuum as everything from a heroic defender of the poor, to a cold-hearted executioner. Admired, sanctified, romanticized and derided, his crystallized status as either a brilliant intellectual or a violent ideologue is usually dependent on where one falls along the left and right of the political spectrum. The debate around his legacy is further complicated by the fact that Guevara exists simultaneously as several different entities, both literal man and global emblem, leading to disputes between what people contend he did and what he now represents.\n\nGuevara's extensive written legacy includes intellectual writings on radical Marxist politics and social theory, military/guerrilla warfare strategy and tactics, diplomatic memos, books, speeches, magazine articles, letters, poetry and diaries, as well as official documents preserved in Cuban government archives. Che's practical and theoretical work had a profound political impact around the globe during the second half of the 20th century, especially in the developing world, where revolutionary organizing and anti-colonial struggles were inspired by his thought and example. As a consequence, his writings have been translated into hundreds of different languages.\n\nIn 1967, while pictures of Guevara's dead body were being circulated and the circumstances of his death debated, his legend began to spread. Demonstrations in protest against his execution occurred throughout the world, and articles, tributes, songs and poems were written about his life and death. Latin America specialists advising the U.S. State Department immediately recognized the significance in the demise of \"the most glamorous and reportedly most successful revolutionary\", noting that Guevara would be eulogized by communists and other leftists as a \"model revolutionary who met a heroic death.\"\n\nBritish politician George Galloway has remarked that \"one of the greatest mistakes the US state ever made was to create those pictures of Che's corpse. Its Christ-like poise in death ensured that his appeal would reach way beyond the turbulent university campus and into the hearts of the faithful, flocking to the worldly, fiery sermons of the liberation theologists.\" The Economist magazine has also pointed out how Che's post death photos resemble Andrea Mantegna's \"The Lamentation over the Dead Christ\". Thus fixing Guevara as a modern saint, the man who risked his life twice in countries that were not his own before giving it in a third, and whose invocation of the \"new man\", driven by moral rather than material incentives, smacked of Saint Ignatius of Loyola more than Marx.\n\nThis rung true the following year in 1968 when among Italy's emerging new breed of Roman Catholic militants, named the Jacques Maritain Circle arranged a memorial mass in Che's honor and Catholic services were held for him in several other countries. In addition, in Brazil, mythmakers began to circulate thousands of photograph copies of a dead Che captioned \"A Saint of Our Time\". Italian students took up a similar tone and christened Guevara an \"Angela della Pace\" – \"Angel of Peace.\" Regardless of Che's non-sanctifying failures and contradictions, or the obsolescence of his methods and ideology, the potency of his \"messianic image\", with its \"symbolic\" and \"religious quality\", continues to inspire many throughout the World.\n\nGuevara, who has been variously described as \"the rock-hero biker revolutionary\", \"the martyr to idealism\", and \"James Dean in fatigues\"; became a potent secular symbol of rebellion and revolution during the May 1968 protests in France. In the view of \"The Guardian\"'s Gary Younge, \"(Che's) journey from middle-class comfort to working-class champion and his long-haired unkempt look, mirrored the aspirations and self-image of the Woodstock generation as they demonstrated against the Vietnam war.\" For her part, the 1960s literary icon Susan Sontag spoke glowingly of the \"inspiring beautiful legend\" that was Guevara, comparing him Lord Byron, Emiliano Zapata, and José Martí. Moreover, the slogan \"Che lives!\" began to appear on walls throughout the West, while Jean-Paul Sartre, a leading existentialist philosopher who knew Guevara personally, encouraged the adulation by describing him as \"the most complete human being of our age.\"\n\nIn addition, more radical left wing activists responded to Guevara's apparent indifference to rewards and glory, and concurred with Guevara's sanctioning of violence as a necessity to instill socialist ideals. Even in the United States, the government which Guevara so vigorously denounced, students began to emulate his style of dress, donning military fatigues, berets, and growing their hair and beards to show that they too were opponents of U.S. foreign policy. For instance, the Black Panthers began to style themselves \"Che-type\" while adopting his trademark black beret, while Arab guerrillas began to name combat operations in his honor. Addressing the wide-ranging flexibility of his legacy, Trisha Ziff, director of the 2008 documentary \"Chevolution\", has remarked that \"Che Guevara's significance in modern times is less about the man and his specific history, and more about the ideals of creating a better society.\" In a similar vein, the Chilean writer Ariel Dorfman has suggested Guevara's enduring appeal might be because \"to those who will never follow in his footsteps, submerged as they are in a world of cynicism, self-interest and frantic consumption, nothing could be more vicariously gratifying than Che's disdain for material comfort and everyday desires.\"\n\nCuba has promoted Che as a \"symbol of revolutionary virtues, sacrifice and internationalism\" inside and outside the country since his death. Guevara remains a \"beloved national hero\" in Cuba (almost a secular saint, to many on the Caribbean island), where he is remembered for promoting unpaid voluntary work by working shirtless on building sites or hauling sacks of sugar. To this day, he appears on a Cuban banknote cutting sugar cane with a machete in the fields.\n\nThe Cuban state has continued to cultivate Guevara’s appreciation, constructing numerous statues and artworks in his honor throughout the land; adorning school rooms, workplaces, public buildings, billboards, and money with his image. His visage is also on postage stamps and the 3-peso coin beneath the words \"Patria o Muerte\" (Homeland or Death). Moreover, children across the country begin each school day with the chant \"Pioneers for Communism, We will be like Che!\". The University of Havana also possesses an academic concentration in \"Che.\" Guevara's mausoleum in Santa Clara has also become a site of almost religious significance to many Cubans, while the nation’s burgeoning tourist industry has benefited greatly from the ongoing international interest in Guevara's life. For example, some 205,832 people visited the mausoleum during 2004, of whom 127,597 were foreigners. However, Argentine psychoanalyst Pacho O'Donnell regrets the formal rigidity of Che's state-crafted image, opining that \"The Cubans have excluded everything about the younger Che that is not heroic, including that which is most deliciously human about him. Personal doubts, the sexual escapades, the moments when he and (Alberto) Granado were drunk, none of that fits with the immortal warrior they want to project.\"\n\nDespite the formal adulation, Guevara's legacy is less pronounced on a national policy front. In Cuba, Guevara's death precipitated the abandonment of guerrilla warfare as an instrument of foreign policy, ushering in a \"rapprochement\" with the Soviet Union, and the reformation of the government along Soviet lines. When Cuban troops returned to Africa in the 1970s, it was as part of a large-scale military expedition, and support for insurrection movements in Latin America and the Caribbean became logistical and organizational rather than overt. Cuba also abandoned Guevara's plans for economic diversification and rapid industrialization which had ultimately proved to be impracticable in view of the country's incorporation into the COMECON system. As early as 1965, the Yugoslav communist journal Borba observed the many half-completed or empty factories in Cuba, a legacy of Guevara's short tenure as Minister of Industries, \"standing like sad memories of the conflict between pretension and reality\".\n\nMany Cuban exiles have spoken of Guevara in unfavorable terms, and he is remembered by some with the epithet \"The Butcher of la Cabaña\", a reference to Guevara’s post-revolutionary role as \"supreme prosecutor\" over the revolutionary tribunals at the fortress. Similar disapproval has been shared by Cuban-American actor and director Andy García, who alleged in 2004 that \"Che has been romanticized over the years, but there is a darker side to his story. He looks like a rock star, but he executed a lot of people without trial or defense.\" Garcia's 2005 film \"The Lost City\", portrays what could be perceived by some, as the brutality of pre and post revolution Cuba, including Che. In reference to such polarization, Cuban-American academic Uva de Aragon has hypothesized that \"we'll still have to wait many years for history to deliver a definite judgement on Che, when the passions of both sides have passed.\"\n\nIn Latin America, the perceived failures of the liberal reforms of the 1990s intensified ideological antagonism towards the United States, leading to a resurgence in support for many of Guevara’s political beliefs: including Pan-Americanism, support for popular movements in the region, the nationalization of key industries and centralization of government. In nearly every upsurge of revolutionary movements in Latin America over the last forty years, from Argentina to Chile, from Nicaragua to El Salvador, from Guatemala to Mexico and Chiapas, there are traces of \"Guevarismo\" – sometimes clear, sometimes faint. In the view of the indigenous rights activist Rigoberta Menchú, \"In these present times, when for many, ethics and other profound moral values are seen to be so easily bought and sold, the example of Che Guevara takes on an even greater dimension.\"\n\nIn Nicaragua, the Sandinistas, a group with ideological roots in Guevarism were re-elected to government after 16 years. Supporters wore Guevara T-shirts during the 2006 victory celebrations. Bolivian president Evo Morales has paid many tributes to Guevara including visiting his initial burial site in Bolivia to declare \"Che Lives\", and installing a portrait of the Argentine made from local coca leaves in his presidential suite. In 2006, Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez who has referred to Guevara as an \"infinite revolutionary\" and who has been known to address audiences in a Che Guevara T-shirt, accompanied Fidel Castro on a tour of Guevara’s boyhood home in Córdoba Argentina, describing the experience as \"a real honor.\" Awaiting crowds of thousands responded with calls of \"We feel it! Guevara is right with us!\" Guevara’s daughter Aleida also transcribed an extensive interview with Chávez where he outlined his plans for \"The New Latin America\", releasing the interview in book form. Guevara also remains a key inspirational figure to the Colombian guerrilla movement, the FARC, and the Mexican Zapatistas led by Subcomandante Marcos. In addition, the various \"expressions of the popular will\" that Che favored over ballot-box democracy – neighborhood courts and the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution – have found new expression in Venezuela and Bolivia.\n\nAmongst the youth of Latin America, Guevara's memoir \"The Motorcycle Diaries\" has become a cult favorite with college students and young intellectuals. This has allowed Guevara to emerge as \"a romantic and tragic young adventurer, who has as much in common with Jack Kerouac or James Dean as with Fidel Castro.\" Speaking on this phenomenon, biographer Jon Lee Anderson, has theorized that Che is \"a figure who can constantly be examined and re-examined, to the younger, post-cold-war generation of Latin Americans, Che stands up as the perennial Icarus, a self-immolating figure who represents the romantic tragedy of youth. Their Che is not just a potent figure of protest, but the idealistic, questioning kid who exists in every society and every time.\"\n\nAlthough to some Che is known as a hero — Nelson Mandela referred to him as: \"An inspiration for every human being who loves freedom\" — others view him as the spokesman of a failing ideology and a ruthless executioner who did not afford others a proper legal process. Critics point out that Che justified murdering people without knowing if they are fully guilty. They point out that in a May 18, 1962 speech Che said: \"We executed many people by firing squad without knowing if they were fully guilty. At times, the Revolution cannot stop to conduct much investigation; it has the obligation to triumph.\" \n\nCritics also point out that Che supported banning independent newspapers. In 1959, Che told Cuban leftist journalist José Pardo Llada: “We must eliminate all newspapers; we cannot make a revolution with free press. Newspapers are instruments of the oligarchy.” \n\nThe U.S. State Department was advised that his death would come as a relief to non-leftist Latin Americans, who had feared possible insurgencies in their own countries. Subsequent critical analysts have also shed light on aspects of cruelty in Guevara’s methods, and analysed what Fidel Castro described as Guevara’s \"excessively aggressive quality.\" Studies addressing problematic characteristics of Guevara's life have cited his unsympathetic treatment of his fellow fighters during various guerrilla campaigns, and his frequent humiliations of those deemed his intellectual inferiors. Though much opposition to Guevara's methods has come from the political right, critical evaluation has also come from groups such as anarchists, Trotskyists, and civil libertarians, who consider Guevara an anti-working-class Stalinist, whose legacy was the creation of a more bureaucratic, authoritarian regime. Johann Hari, for example, has stated that \"Che Guevara is not a free-floating icon of rebellion. He was an actual person who supported an actual system of tyranny, one that murdered millions more actual people.\" Detractors have also theorized that in much of Latin America, Che-inspired revolutions had the practical result of reinforcing brutal militarism for many years.\n\nOn the 40th anniversary of Guevara's execution in Bolivia the compilation \"Che in Verse\" brought together a diverse collection of 135 poems and songs in tribute to Che Guevara. Celebrated poets such as Pablo Neruda, Allen Ginsberg, Julio Cortázar, Nicolas Guillén, Derek Walcott, Al Purdy, Rafael Alberti, Ko Un, and Yevgeny Yevtushenko devoted the aforementioned works to, as the book states in its introduction, \"celebrate the world’s icon of rebellion\". In September 2007, Guevara was voted \"Argentina's greatest historical and political figure.\"\n\nDespite the occasional controversy, Guevara's status as a popular icon has continued throughout the world, leading commentators to speak of a global \"cult of Che\". Well known Bohemian writers extolled him, while West German playwright Peter Weiss has even compared him to \"a Christ taken down from the Cross.\" A photograph of Guevara taken by photographer Alberto Korda has become one of the century's most ubiquitous images, and the portrait, transformed into a monochrome graphic by Irish artist Jim Fitzpatrick, is reproduced endlessly on a vast array of merchandise, such as T-shirts, posters, cigarettes, coffee mugs, and baseball caps. This fact led Argentine business analyst Martin Krauze to postulate that \"the admiration for El Che no longer extends to his politics and ideology, it’s a romantic idea of one man going to battle against the windmills, he’s a Quixote.\"\n\nBritish journalist Sean O’Hagan has described Che as \"more (John) Lennon than (Vladimir) Lenin.\" Taking the opposite hypothesis, Mexican commentator and Che Biographer Jorge Castañeda Gutman has proclaimed that: \"Che can be found just where he belongs in the niches reserved for cultural icons, for symbols of social uprisings that filter down deep into the soil of society.\" Castañeda has further stated that \"Che still possesses an extraordinary relevance as a symbol of a time when people died heroically for what they believed in\", adding that in his view \"people don't do that anymore.\" The saying \"Viva la revolucion!\" has also become very popular and synonymous with Guevara. In North America, Western Europe and many regions outside Latin America, the image has been likened to a global brand, long since shedding its ideological or political connotations. Conversely, the obsession with Guevara has also been dismissed by critics as merely \"adolescent revolutionary romanticism.\"\n\nAmerican, Latin American and European writers, Jon Lee Anderson, Régis Debray, Jorge G. Castañeda and others contributed to demystify the image of Guevara via articles and extensive biographies, which detailed his life and legacy in less idealistic terms; and, in the case of Octavio Paz, was accompanied by a critical indictment of the Marxism espoused by many in the Latin American left. Political writer Paul Berman went further, asserting that the \"modern-day cult of Che\" obscures the work of dissidents and what he believes is a \"tremendous social struggle\" currently taking place in Cuba. Author Christopher Hitchens, who was a socialist and a supporter of the Cuban revolution in the 1960s but later changed his views, summarised Guevara's legacy by surmising that \"Che's iconic status was assured because he failed. His story was one of defeat and isolation, and that's why it is so seductive. Had he lived, the myth of Che would have long since died.\" Taking the opposing view, Richard Gott a Guardian journalist in Vallegrande, sent a dispatch on the day of Guevara's death stating the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26498380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26498380", "title": "Lucumí language", "text": "Lucumí language\n\nLucumí is a lexicon of words and short phrases derived from Yoruba language in Cuba and used in as the liturgical language of Santería in Cuba and the Cuban Diaspora.\n\nSince the Yoruba language is no longer a vernacular among the Yoruba descendants in the Americas from the time of the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade, and by extension all the devotees of the Orisa religion as it developed in Cuba, the remains of the liturgical usage reflect deterioration. It has been influenced by Spanish phonetics and pronunciation. There has also been some minimal influence from Bantu languages and Fongbe, some of which were spoken by other enslaved Africans in close proximity in the Americas.\n\nThe Yoruba descendants in these communities, as well as non-descendants that have adopted one of the Yoruba-based religions in the diaspora, no longer speak any of the Yoruba dialects with any level of fluency. Its status as a spirit language also means that there isn't an understanding of correct grammar standards nor proper intonation, since Yoruba language is a tone language and relies upon proper inflection for meaning. Santería practitioners claim that spirit possession in Cuba shows that it manifested in the devotee at a Cuban orisa ceremony speaking in Bozal.\n\n"}
{"id": "341297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341297", "title": "Martha Nussbaum", "text": "Martha Nussbaum\n\nMartha Craven Nussbaum (; born May 6, 1947) is an American philosopher and the current Ernst Freund Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago, where she is jointly appointed in the Law School and the Philosophy department. She has a particular interest in ancient Greek and Roman philosophy, political philosophy, feminism, and ethics, including animal rights. She also holds associate appointments in classics, divinity, and political science, is a member of the Committee on Southern Asian Studies, and a board member of the Human Rights Program. She previously taught at Harvard and Brown.\n\nNussbaum is the author of a number of books, including \"The Fragility of Goodness\" (1986), \"Sex and Social Justice\" (1998), \"Hiding from Humanity: Disgust, Shame, and the Law\" (2004), and \"Frontiers of Justice: Disability, Nationality, Species Membership\" (2006). She received the 2016 Kyoto Prize in Arts and Philosophy and the 2018 Berggruen Prize.\n\nNussbaum was born in New York City, the daughter of George Craven, a Philadelphia lawyer, and Betty Warren, an interior designer and homemaker; during her teenage years, Nussbaum attended the Baldwin School in Bryn Mawr. She described her upbringing as \"East Coast WASP elite...very sterile, very preoccupied with money and status\". She would later credit her impatience with \"mandarin philosophers\" and dedication to public service as the \"repudiation of my own aristocratic upbringing. I don't like anything that sets itself up as an in-group or an elite, whether it is the Bloomsbury group or Derrida\".\n\nShe studied theatre and classics at New York University, getting a BA in 1969, and gradually moved to philosophy while at Harvard University, where she received an MA in 1972 and a PhD in 1975, studying under G. E. L. Owen. This period also saw her marriage to Alan Nussbaum (married in 1969, divorced in 1987), her conversion to Judaism, and the birth of her daughter Rachel.\n\nNussbaum's interest in Judaism has continued and deepened: on August 16, 2008 she became a \"bat mitzvah\" in a service at Temple K. A. M. Isaiah Israel in Chicago's Hyde Park, chanting from the \"Parashah Va-etchanan\" and the \"Haftarah Nahamu\", and delivering a \"D'var Torah\" about the connection between genuine, non-narcissistic consolation and the pursuit of global justice.\n\nDuring her studies at Harvard, Nussbaum encountered a tremendous amount of discrimination, including sexual harassment, and problems getting childcare for her daughter. When she became the first woman to hold the Junior Fellowship at Harvard, Nussbaum received a congratulatory note from a \"prestigious classicist\" who suggested that since \"female fellowess\" was an awkward name, she should be called \"hetaira\", for in Greece these educated courtesans were the only women who participated in philosophical symposia.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980 she taught philosophy and classics at Harvard, where she was denied tenure by the Classics Department in 1982. Nussbaum then moved to Brown University, where she taught until 1994 when she joined the University of Chicago Law School faculty. Her 1986 book \"The Fragility of Goodness\", on ancient Greek ethics and Greek tragedy, made her a well-known figure throughout the humanities. More recent work (\"Frontiers of Justice\") establishes Nussbaum as a theorist of global justice.\n\nNussbaum's work on capabilities has often focused on the unequal freedoms and opportunities of women, and she has developed a distinctive type of feminism, drawing inspiration from the liberal tradition, but emphasizing that liberalism, at its best, entails radical rethinking of gender relations and relations within the family.\n\nNussbaum's other major area of philosophical work is the emotions. She has defended a \"neo-Stoic\" account of emotions that holds that they are appraisals that ascribe to things and persons, outside the agent's own control, great significance for the person's own flourishing. On this basis she has proposed analyses of grief, compassion, and love, and, in a later book, of disgust and shame.\n\nNussbaum has engaged in many spirited debates with other intellectuals, in her academic writings as well as in the pages of semi-popular magazines and book reviews and, in one instance, when testifying as an expert witness in court. She testified in the Colorado bench trial for \"Romer v. Evans\", arguing against the claim that the history of philosophy provides the state with a \"compelling interest\" in favor of a law denying gays and lesbians the right to seek passage of local non-discrimination laws. A portion of this testimony, dealing with the potential meanings of the term \"tolmêma\" in Plato's work, was the subject of controversy, and was called misleading and even perjurious by critics. She responded to these charges in a lengthy article called \"Platonic Love and Colorado Law\". Nussbaum used multiple references from Plato's \"Symposium\" and his interactions with Socrates as evidence for her argument. The debate continued with a reply by one of her sternest critics, Robert P. George. Nussbaum has criticized Noam Chomsky as being among the leftist intellectuals who hold the belief that \"one should not criticize one’s friends, that solidarity is more important than ethical correctness\". She suggests that one can \"trace this line to an old Marxist contempt for bourgeois ethics, but it is loathsome whatever its provenance\". Among the people whose books she has reviewed critically are Allan Bloom, Harvey Mansfield, and Judith Butler. Her more serious and academic debates have been with figures such as John Rawls, Richard Posner, and Susan Moller Okin.\n\nNussbaum is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (elected 1988) and the American Philosophical Society. In 2008 she was elected a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy. She is a Founding President and Past President of the Human Development and Capability Association and a Past President of the American Philosophical Association, Central Division. She won the Kyoto Prize in 2015, and in 2017 the National Endowment for the Humanities selected Nussbaum to deliver the Jefferson Lecture, the U.S. federal government's highest honor for achievement in the humanities; her lecture, delivered in May 2017, was entitled \"Powerlessness and the Politics of Blame.\"\n\nNussbaum dated and cohabited with Cass Sunstein for more than a decade.\n\n\"The Fragility of Goodness\" confronts the ethical dilemma that individuals strongly committed to justice are nevertheless vulnerable to external factors that may deeply compromise or even negate their human flourishing. Discussing literary as well as philosophical texts, Nussbaum seeks to determine the extent to which reason may enable self-sufficiency. She eventually rejects the Platonic notion that human goodness can fully protect against peril, siding with the tragic playwrights and Aristotle in treating the acknowledgment of vulnerability as a key to realizing the human good.\n\nHer interpretation of Plato's \"Symposium\" in particular drew considerable attention. Under Nussbaum's consciousness of vulnerability, the re-entrance of Alcibiades at the end of the dialogue undermines Diotima's account of the ladder of love in its ascent to the non-physical realm of the forms. Alcibiades's presence deflects attention back to physical beauty, sexual passions, and bodily limitations, hence highlighting human fragility.\n\n\"Fragility\" made Nussbaum famous throughout the humanities. It garnered wide praise in academic reviews, and even drew acclaim in the popular media. Camille Paglia credited \"Fragility\" with matching \"the highest academic standards\" of the twentieth century, and \"The Times Higher Education\" called it \"a supremely scholarly work\". Nussbaum's fame extended her influence beyond print and into television programs like PBS's Bill Moyers.\n\n\"Cultivating Humanity\" appeals to classical Greek texts as a basis for defense and reform of the liberal education. Noting the Greek cynic philosopher Diogenes' aspiration to transcend \"local origins and group memberships\" in favor of becoming \"a citizen of the world\", Nussbaum traces the development of this idea through the Stoics, Cicero, and eventually the classical liberalism of Adam Smith and Immanuel Kant. Nussbaum champions multiculturalism in the context of ethical universalism, defends scholarly inquiry into race, gender, and human sexuality, and further develops the role of literature as narrative imagination into ethical questions.\n\nAt the same time, Nussbaum also censured certain scholarly trends. She excoriated deconstructionist Jacques Derrida saying \"on truth [he is] simply not worth studying for someone who has been studying Quine and Putnam and Davidson\". She cites Zhang Longxi, who labels Derrida's analysis of Chinese culture \"pernicious\" and without \"evidence of serious study\". More broadly, Nussbaum criticized Michel Foucault for his \"historical incompleteness [and] lack of conceptual clarity\", but nevertheless singled him out for providing \"the only truly important work to have entered philosophy under the banner of 'postmodernism.'\" Nussbaum is even more critical of figures like Allan Bloom, Roger Kimball, and George Will for what she considers their \"shaky\" knowledge of non-Western cultures and inaccurate caricatures of today's humanities departments.\n\n\"The New York Times\" praised \"Cultivating Humanity\" as \"a passionate, closely argued defense of multiculturalism\" and hailed it as \"a formidable, perhaps definitive defense of diversity on American campuses\". Nussbaum was the 2002 recipient of the University of Louisville Grawmeyer Award in Education.\n\n\"Sex and Social Justice\" sets out to demonstrate that sex and sexuality are morally irrelevant distinctions that have been artificially enforced as sources of social hierarchy; thus, feminism and social justice have common concerns. Rebutting anti-universalist objections, Nussbaum proposes functional freedoms, or central human capabilities, as a rubric of social justice.\n\nNussbaum discusses at length the feminist critiques of liberalism itself, including the charge advanced by Alison Jaggar that liberalism demands ethical egoism. Nussbaum notes that liberalism emphasizes respect for \"others\" as individuals, and further argues that Jaggar has elided the distinction between individualism and self-sufficiency. Nussbaum accepts Catharine MacKinnon's critique of abstract liberalism, assimilating the salience of history and context of group hierarchy and subordination, but concludes that this appeal is rooted in liberalism rather than a critique of it.\n\nNussbaum condemns the practice of female genital mutilation, citing deprivation of normative human functioning in its risks to health, impact on sexual functioning, violations of dignity, and conditions of non-autonomy. Emphasizing that female genital mutilation is carried out by brute force, its irreversibility, its non-consensual nature, and its links to customs of male domination, Nussbaum urges feminists to confront female genital mutilation as an issue of injustice.\n\nNussbaum also refines the concept of \"objectification\", as originally advanced by Catharine MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin. Nussbaum defines the idea of treating as an object with seven qualities: instrumentality, denial of autonomy, inertness, fungibility, violability, ownership, and denial of subjectivity. Her characterization of pornography as a tool of objectification puts Nussbaum at odds with sex-positive feminism. At the same time, Nussbaum argues in support of the legalization of prostitution, a position she reiterated in a 2008 essay following the Spitzer scandal, writing: \"The idea that we ought to penalize women with few choices by removing one of the ones they do have is grotesque.\"\n\n\"Sex and Social Justice\" was lauded by critics in the press. Salon declared: \"She shows brilliantly how sex is used to deny some people—i.e., women and gay men—social justice.\" The \"New York Times\" praised the work as \"elegantly written and carefully argued\". Kathryn Trevenen praised Nussbaum's effort to shift feminist concerns toward interconnected transnational efforts, and for explicating a set of universal guidelines to structure an agenda of social justice. Patrick Hopkins singled out for praise Nussbaum's \"masterful\" chapter on sexual objectification. Radical feminist Andrea Dworkin faulted Nussbaum for \"consistent over-intellectualisation of emotion, which has the inevitable consequence of mistaking suffering for cruelty\".\n\n\"Hiding from Humanity\" extends Nussbaum's work in moral psychology to probe the arguments for including two emotions—shame and disgust—as legitimate bases for legal judgments. Nussbaum argues that individuals tend to repudiate their bodily imperfection or animality through the projection of fears about contamination. This cognitive response is in itself irrational, because we cannot transcend the animality of our bodies. Noting how projective disgust has wrongly justified group subordination (mainly of women, Jews, and homosexuals), Nussbaum ultimately discards disgust as a reliable basis of judgment.\n\nTurning to shame, Nussbaum argues that shame takes too broad a target, attempting to inculcate humiliation on a scope that is too intrusive and limiting on human freedom. Nussbaum sides with John Stuart Mill in narrowing legal concern to acts that cause a distinct and assignable harm.\n\nIn an interview with \"Reason\" magazine, Nussbaum elaborated: \"Disgust and shame are inherently hierarchical; they set up ranks and orders of human beings. They are also inherently connected with restrictions on liberty in areas of non-harmful conduct. For both of these reasons, I believe, anyone who cherishes the key democratic values of equality and liberty should be deeply suspicious of the appeal to those emotions in the context of law and public policy.\"\n\nNussbaum's work was received with wide praise. \"The Boston Globe\" called her argument \"characteristically lucid\" and hailed her as \"America's most prominent philosopher of public life\". Her reviews in national newspapers and magazines garnered unanimous praise. In academic circles, Stefanie A. Lindquist of Vanderbilt University lauded Nussbaum's analysis as a \"remarkably wide ranging and nuanced treatise on the interplay between emotions and law\".\n\nA prominent exception was Roger Kimball's review published in \"The New Criterion\", in which he accused Nussbaum of \"fabricating\" the renewed prevalence of shame and disgust in public discussions and says she intends to \"undermine the inherited moral wisdom of millennia\". He rebukes her for \"contempt for the opinions of ordinary people\" and ultimately accuses Nussbaum herself of \"hiding from humanity\".\n\nNussbaum has recently drawn on and extended her work on disgust to produce a new analysis of the legal issues regarding sexual orientation and same-sex conduct. Her book \"From Disgust to Humanity: Sexual Orientation and the Constitution\" was published by Oxford University Press in 2009, as part of their \"Inalienable Rights\" series, edited by Geoffrey Stone.\n\nIn the 2010 book \"From Disgust to Humanity: Sexual Orientation and Constitutional Law\" Martha Nussbaum analyzes the role that disgust plays in law and public debate in the United States. The book primarily analyzes constitutional legal issues facing gay and lesbian Americans but also analyzes issues such as anti-miscegenation statutes, segregation, antisemitism and the caste system in India as part of its broader thesis regarding the \"politics of disgust\".\n\nNussbaum posits that the fundamental motivations of those advocating legal restrictions against gay and lesbian Americans is a \"politics of disgust\". These legal restrictions include blocking sexual orientation being protected under anti-discrimination laws (See: \"Romer v. Evans\"), sodomy laws against consenting adults (See: \"Lawrence v. Texas\"), constitutional bans against same-sex marriage (See: California Proposition 8 (2008)), over-strict regulation of gay bathhouses, and bans on sex in public parks and public restrooms. Nussbaum also argues that legal bans on polygamy and certain forms of incestuous (e.g. brother–sister) marriage partake of the politics of disgust and should be overturned.\n\nShe identifies the \"politics of disgust\" closely with Lord Devlin and his famous opposition to the Wolfenden report that recommended decriminalizing private consensual homosexual acts on the basis that those things would \"disgust the average man\". To Devlin, the mere fact some people or act may produce popular emotional reactions of disgust provides an appropriate guide for legislating. She also identifies the 'wisdom of repugnance' as advocated by Leon Kass as another \"politics of disgust\" school of thought as it claims that disgust \"in crucial cases ... repugnance is the emotional expression of deep wisdom, beyond reason's power fully to articulate it\".\n\nNussbaum goes on to explicitly oppose the concept of a disgust-based morality as an appropriate guide for legislating. Nussbaum notes that popular disgust has been used throughout history as a justification for persecution. Drawing upon her earlier work on the relationship between disgust and shame, Nussbaum notes that at various times, racism, antisemitism, and sexism, have all been driven by popular revulsion.\n\nIn place of this \"politics of disgust\", Nussbaum argues for the harm principle from John Stuart Mill as the proper basis for limiting individual liberties. Nussbaum argues the harm principle, which supports the legal ideas of consent, the age of majority, and privacy, protects citizens while the \"politics of disgust\" is merely an unreliable emotional reaction with no inherent wisdom. Furthermore, Nussbaum argues this \"politics of disgust\" has denied and continues to deny citizens humanity and equality before the law on no rational grounds and causes palpable social harms to the groups affected.\n\n\"From Disgust to Humanity\" earned acclaim in the United States, and prompted interviews in the \"New York Times\" and other magazines. One conservative magazine, \"The American Spectator\", offered a dissenting view, writing: \"[H]er account of the 'politics of disgust' lacks coherence, and 'the politics of humanity' betrays itself by not treating more sympathetically those opposed to the gay rights movement.\" The article also argues that the book is marred by factual errors and inconsistencies.\n\nNussbaum has 62 honorary degrees from colleges and universities in North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia, including from:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1084839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084839", "title": "Meiwa", "text": "Meiwa\n\n\nAs a cultural phenomenon, the literature of this period records concerted attempts to distill the aggregate characteristics of the inhabitants of Edo (\"Edokko\") into a generalized thumbnail description. These traits (\"Edokko katagi\") were put into use to draw a contrast between Edokko and those who didn't have this \"sophisticated\" gloss -— those not from the city, as in merchants from the Kyoto-Osaka region or samurai from distant provinces. Sometimes \"Edokko katagi\" was presented with pride; and it was used mockingly.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52127772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52127772", "title": "Michael Fellman", "text": "Michael Fellman\n\nMichael Fellman (1943, Lincoln, Nebraska – 2012 Vancouver, British Columbia) Professor Emeritus of History at \nSimon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Fellman was educated at the University of Michigan (BA, 1965) and Northwestern University (PhD, 1969). He was the son of David Fellman, Vilas Professor Emeritus at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30865221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865221", "title": "Narentines", "text": "Narentines\n\nThe Narentines were a South Slavic tribe that occupied an area of southern Dalmatia centered at the river Neretva (), active in the 9th and 10th centuries, noted as pirates on the Adriatic. Named \"Narentani\" in Venetian sources, Greek sources call them \"Paganoi\", \"pagans\", as they were for long pagan, in a time when neighbouring tribes were Christianized. The tribe were fierce enemies of the Republic of Venice, having attacked Venetian merchants and clergy passing on the Adriatic, and even raided close to Venice itself, as well as defeated the Doge several times. Venetian–Narentine peace treaties did not last long, as the Narentines quickly returned to piracy. They were finally defeated in a Venetian crackdown at the turn of the 10th century and disappeared from sources by the 11th century.\n\nThe word \"Narentine\" is a demonym derived from the local Neretva river (). The terms \"Narentines\", \"Pagania\" or \"Pagans\" are found in two contemporary sources: \"De Administrando Imperio\" (), a mid-10th century Greek work, and \"Chronicon Venetum et Gradense\", a Venetian chronicle by John the Deacon from the early 11th century. In \"De Administrando Imperio\" of Byzantine emperor Constantine VII Porphyrogenitus (r. 913–959), the tribe is called \"Paganoi\" (), and their polity \"Pagania\" (Παγανὶα, Παγανἰα), in Greek, while also noting that in Latin they are called \"Arentanoi\" (Αρεντανοἰ) and their polity \"Arenta\" (Αρεντα). Chronicler John the Deacon used the geographical term \"Narentani\" (as in \"princeps Narentanorum\", \"Narrentanos Sclavos\"). In Serbo-Croatian, the tribal name is rendered as \"Neretljani\" (Неретљани) and \"Pagani\" (Пагани), while the polity mostly as \"Paganija\" (Паганија).\n\nIn DAI's chapters \"Story of the province of Dalmatia\" and \"Of the Pagani, also called Arentani, and of the country they now dwell in\", the geography of Pagania is described. Pagania had the counties (\"župa (zoupanias)\") of Rhastotza, Mokros and Dalen. Rhastotza and Mokros lay by the coast, and had galleys, while Dalen was distant from the sea and was based on agriculture. Pagania had the inhabited cities of Mokron (Makarska), Beroullia (presumably Brela), Ostrok (Zaostrog) and Slavinetza (near Gradac), and the large islands of Kourkra/Kiker with a city (Korčula), Meleta/Malozeatai (Mljet), Phara (Hvar) and Bratzis (Brač). The Pagani raised flocks on the islands. Islands in the vicinity but not part of Pagania were Chora (presumably Sušac), Iës (Vis) and Lastobon (Lastovo). Croatia was situated to the west, and Zachumlia to the east; Serbia was situated inland to the north, behind Pagania, Zachumlia, Travunia and Dioklea, and bordered to Croatia on the Tzentina (Cetina) river.\n\nThe \"Sclaveni\" (South Slavs) overwhelmed the Balkans in the 6th century. The \"DAI\" speaks of the Narentines as descended from the \"unbaptized Serbs\" that settled Dalmatia under the protection of Byzantine Emperor Heraclius (r. 610–641), and that the land of the Narentines had earlier been devastated by the Avars. In 639 AD, \"Narona\", until then a flourishing Roman city, was destroyed by a horde of Avars and Slavs. A few years later, Slavic tribes took control of the lower Neretva. The Slavs built a new town on the ruins of Narona, and erected a monument to their Slavic god Svetovid, on the ruins of Roman temples. According to Evans, \"Narentia\" became a stronghold for pagans in the Balkans, similarly to Balto-Slavs in Rügen (at Jaromarsburg). In 642, Slavs invaded southern Italy and attacked Siponto, by ship from the Dalmatian coast. Slavic naval raids on the Adriatic increased and it became unsafe for travel.\n\nThe first conflicts between the Venetians and Narentines came immediately before 830, around which time the first peace agreement was signed between the two (the Venetian Doge and \"Sclavorum de insula Narrentis\"). Narentine Slavs sent envoys to Doge Giovanni I Participazio (r. 829–836). P. Skok believes this period also being the first contact between Venice and the middle Dalmatian islands. According to Šafárik (1795–1861), by the beginning of the 9th century their power had increased so much that Doge Giovanni I attacked them and then offered them peace. The Republic of Venice was \"de facto\" subordinate the Byzantine Empire, a period in which Venice expanded its trade relations towards the East. In the first half of the 9th century Byzantium was struck by internal unrest, while the Bulgars and Arabs strengthened themselves thanks to this. Arabs took Crete in 825, Palermo in 831, Taranto in 839, then after destroying the Venetian navy by 840, they roamed freely in the Adriatic. In 841 Arabic ships attacked Adriatic cities and reached a confluence of the Padua river, while smaller contingents attacked Budva, Roza and Lower Kotor. In 842 the Arabs conquered Bari, and in 846 reached Rome itself. The Venetian navy, obliged to defend the Byzantine Adriatic, were occupied almost fully with battles with the Arabs. The Byzantine navy rarely appeared, and with small numbers of ships. This, and Arab harassment, gave the Slavic pirates around the Neretva upswing to develop their ship capabilities. When the Venetian navy was in Sicilian waters as guards in 827–828, the Narentines received momentum; when the Venetian navy returned, they calmed down. Venetian chronicles speak of a Narentine leader having been baptized in Venice, for greater security for the latter; however, the Narentines are unsteady and deceptive as their sea; as soon as events in Venice or the Adriatic worsen, the Narentines continued their piracy. One of their attacks in 834–835, when they robbed and killed some Venetian merchants returning from Benevento, caused great resentment against them in Venice.\n\nIn order to stop these assaults, the Venetians undertook a large expedition against the Dalmatian Slavic pirates in 839. Doge Pietro Tradonico sent warships against the Slavic lands (\"Sclavenia\"). According to F. Šišić Doge Pietro ordered an attack on the Narentines in the spring of 839. According to V. Klaić, Tradonico had first defeated and made peace with the Croats under Mislav, then proceeded to attack the Narentine islands and make peace with Narentine leader Drosaico. There are no information on the fights that year, but it is known that peace was concluded with Croats and a part of the Narentines. Venetian chronicler John the Deacon (1008) records a renewal of the peace treaty signed by Drosaico (\"ad Narrentanas insulas cum Drosaico, Marianorum iudice, similiter fedus instituit\"). The peace with the Narentines did not last long, perhaps as the Narentines signed it to avoid danger, or more likely because it was not concluded with all, but a tribe or clan of the Narentines. In 840 the Venetians attacked Narentine leader Ljudislav, ending in failure; Ljudislav (\"Liuditus sclavus\"), possibly a successor or co-ruler of Drosaico, defeated the Venetian Doge and killed hundreds of his men. According to Klaić it was the Narentines who broke the peace. It seems that Narentine piracy even reached Istria by February 840. The 840 Venetian–Frankish treaty included common fight against Slavic tribes (\"generationes Sclavorum inimicas\"). After two defeats to the Venetian navy by the Arabs immediately after, the Venetians were unable to enter new fights with the Dalmatian Slavs. In 846 the Narentines reached close to Venice itself, and raided nearby Caorle.\nThe arrival of Basil I (r. 867–886) to the Byzantine throne led to important changes in Byzantium; energetic, he managed to enter closer ties with Bulgars, and even the distant Croats, and protected the Empire well. When Ragusa (Dubrovnik) asked for the emperor's help against the threat of the Saracens, he dispatched a strong navy into the Adriatic. Byzantine admiral Niketas Ooryphas took up closer contacts with the Serb tribes around Ragusa, the Zachumlians, Travunians and Konavlians, and invited them to jointly combat the Saracens, both on land and sea, in 869. Only Slavic tribes of southern Dalmatia were called to cooperate; to the north, the Croats and Dalmatians entered relations with Italian king Louis at the dismay of the Byzantines. When some \"Slavs\" (Narentines according to Narayan) in March 870 kidnapped the Bishop of Rome's emissaries returning home from the Fourth Council in Constantinople, the Byzantines used this as a good pretext to attack and force them into submission (871). The \"DAI\" mentions that the Narentines were called \"pagans, because they did not accept baptism in the time when all Serbs were baptized\", which is placed during Basil's rule. The Narentines are not mentioned in relation to the Byzantine military expedition on Bari dispatched by Basil I (r. 867–886), in which other Dalmatian Slavs participated. The Croats, Serbs, Zachlumians, Travunians, Konavlians, Ragusans, \"with all the men of the towns of Dalmatia\", crossed over the sea to Langobardia and took Bari. Basil returned Dalmatia under Byzantine rule by 878, and a large part of Dalmatia was put under the Patriarchate of Constantinople. The \"DAI\" claims that the Dalmatian Slavs asked Basil I to baptize them; the Christianization of the Narentines seems to have failed. According to Evans, the Narentines remained pagan until 873, when Byzantine admiral Ooryphas persuaded them to accept baptism. While Doge Orso I Participazio and his son Giovanni II Participazio made peace and an alliance with the Croats after 876, the Venetians were still at war with the Narentines.\n\nIn 880 the Venetian–Frankish treaty was renewed. In 887 Doge Pietro I Candiano sent troops against the Narentine Slavs, landing at the \"Slavic Hill\" (\"mons Sclavorum\"), putting the Slavs to flight. The Narentines were defeated in a battle in August 887 at Makarska, and their five ships were destroyed with axes. With help from neighbours, the Narentines decisively defeated the Venetian navy on 18 September 887, with the Doge killed in action and his body left laying (Andrea Tribun later secretly took the body to Venice). From this time until 948 the Venetian chronicles do not mention conflicts with the Croats, which would mean that the Venetians offered peace and paid tribute to the Croats.\n\nPagania was by the reign of Serbian ruler Petar Gojniković (r. 892–917) part of the Serbian principality. Petar and the Byzantine commander of Dyrrhachion Leo Rhabdouchos met in Narentine lands regarding an alliance against the Bulgars. Michael of Zahumlje, who had been pushed out from Zahumlje to the neighbouring islands by Petar, informed the Bulgars about these negotiations. In 917 Petar was tricked by the Bulgars, who then annexed Serbia in 924–927, until Časlav returned to Serbia and rebuilt the state, in Byzantine alliance. Časlav's state included Pagania (the Narentines). In the 940s, the islands of Brač and Hvar, which had earlier become part of the Croatian kingdom, seceded during Ban Pribina's rebellion and rejoined the Narentine province. The Narentines took advantage of the internal unrest in Croatia after the death of Petar Krešimir (945) and took the islands of Cazza, Vis and Lastovo. In 948 the Narentines were at war with Venetian Doge Pietro III Candiano, who sent 33 war galleys under Urso Badovario and Pietro Rozollo; the Narentines managed to defend themselves. The Venetians were forced to pay tribute to the Narentines for safe sea passage. Serbia collapsed after Časlav's death in ca. 960, into smaller units.\n\nIn 997, the Narentines increased raids against Latin and Venetian towns, and they had close ties with Croat ruler Svetoslav Suronja, who at the time fought his two brothers over the throne; this relation caused the Latin Dalmatian towns and Venice to turn against Svetoslav. In 998, the Republic of Venice, under the Byzantine Emperor, exerted control over the Byzantine Dalmatian towns; Dalmatian Croatia was in civil war; the Narentines were semi-independent, raiding the Adriatic, particularly against Venice. As Venice gained authority in Dalmatia, some Dalmatian towns that felt threatened allied with the Narentines. The Venetians then interved and defeated the Narentines and their Croatian allies decisively on sea, resulting in Narentine power decline.\n\nOn 9 May 1000, Venetian Doge Pietro II Orseolo decided to conquer the allied Croats and Narentines, protecting the interests of their trading colonies and the Latin Dalmatian citizenry. Without difficulty, he struck the entire eastern Adriatic coastline - with only the Narentines offering him some resistance. As a counterattack, the Narentines kidnapped 40 of the foremost citizens of Zara (Zadar) and stole a transport of goods from Apulia. On their way home, Pietro II dispatched 10 ships that surprised them between Lastovo and Kača and took them as prisoners to Trogir. Narentine emissaries came to the Doge's temporary residence at Split (Spalato) to beg for the release of the prisoners. They guaranteed that the Narentine prince himself would show up with his men and renounce the old rights to tax the Venetians for free passage. All prisoners were allowed to return to their homes, except for six that were kept as hostages. Lastovo and Korčula continued to oppose the Venetians. Korčula was conquered by Pietro II and Lastovo fell too after long bloody fights. As Lastovo was very infamous in the Venetian world for being a pirate haven, the Doge ordered it to be evacuated in order to be razed. After the denizens of Lastovo refused to concur, the Venetians attacked and razed it to the ground.\n\n\nThere is a historical festival called \"matrimonio\" in Venice commemorating the victory over the Narentines, held on Candlemas.\n\nThe question of the ethnic designation of the tribe, whether it, apart from being Slavic, was to be described as Serb or Croat, is often found in historiography. The earliest information about the Narentines is from the early 9th century, compiled in the \"Chronicon Venetum et Gradense\". The Venetian chronicle used the Slavic ethnonym () to refer to the Narentines.\n\n\"De Administrando Imperio\" also gives information about the Narentines, originating from the 870s. There, the Narentines are described as \"descended from the unbaptized Serbs\" ... The Pagans are so called because they did not accept baptism at the time when all the Serbs were baptized.\" Romanian-American historian Florin Curta considered it \"an indication that in the mid-tenth century the coastal zhupanias were under the control of the Serbian \"zhupan\" Časlav\", as noted in his 2006 book. Serbian historian Tibor Živković wrote in 2012 that \"it was stated in the DAI that the Serbs had been baptized much earlier, and therefore, the Pagans could not have belonged to the Serb tribe. There is information in chapter 32, that the Serbs controlled Pagania in ca. 895, during the rule of the Archon Peter, and from this political situation Constantine would have been able to write that the Pagans belonged to the Serbian tribe.\" Croatian historian Neven Budak also holds that remarks regarding the Narentines were related to the political situation at the time.\n\nIn the \"Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja\", a work written by a Catholic bishop likely for a Croatian ruler in ca. 1300–10, the southern Dalmatian principalities are referred to as part of \"Red Croatia\". While later parts of the \"Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja\" are considered of high value, events described in the early Middle Ages are largely discredited in historiography.\n\nPavel Jozef Šafárik (1795–1861) viewed that the first information on Serbs in history were from events regarding the Narentines. Konstantin Josef Jireček (1854–1918) treated them as a distinct South Slavic tribe. Croatian historian F. Šišić (1869–1940) said that the Neretva population were \"ever and always fully identical to the Croat [population], including also its Chakavian dialect\" (1952). Croatian historian Vladimir Košćak (1921–1991) believed that the Narentines were under Croat rule from Trpimir until Domagoj (d. 876), and that after the latter's death, they sent emissaries to Basil I and recognized his rule, which was however short-lived as spanning only to the fall of Byzantine protégé Zdeslav (879) when the Narentines again fell away from Byzantium; Košćak wanted to reduce Byzantine rule also to the south of Pagania, claiming that the provinces of Pagania, Zachumlia, Travunia and Duklja again came under Croat rule during Branimir (r. 879–892). This theory was criticized by the Serbian academic Institute for Byzantine Studies. Serbian historiography in the 19th and 20th century considered the Narentines to be Serbs. Vladimir Ćorović (1885–1941) treated the Narentines as the first of the Serb tribes to take the initiative of fighting, not for defence and tribal organization, but for the liberty of selfish desires and security raids.\n\nAccording to Croatian historian Ivo Goldstein, the Narentines \"could not be regarder neither Serbs nor Croats.\" Budak wrote that the Narentines were \"undoubtedly a distinct ethnic group\", who \"disappeared as a separate ethnicity when their principality was joined into Croatia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31009486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31009486", "title": "Origins of the Six-Day War", "text": "Origins of the Six-Day War\n\nThe origins of the Six-Day War, which was fought between June 5 and June 10, 1967, by Israel and the neighboring states of Egypt (known then as the United Arab Republic, UAR), Jordan, and Syria, include both longstanding and immediate issues. At the time of the Six-Day War, the earlier foundation of Israel, the resulting Palestinian refugee issue, and Israel's participation in the invasion of Egypt during the Suez crisis of 1956 continued to be significant grievances for the Arab world. Arab nationalists, led by Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser, continued to be hostile to Israel's existence and made grave threats against its Jewish population. By the mid-1960s, relations between Israel and its Arab neighbors had deteriorated to the extent that a number of border clashes had taken place.\n\nIn April 1967, Syria shot at an Israeli tractor ploughing in the demilitarized zone, which escalated to a prewar aerial clash. In May 1967, following misinformation about Israeli intentions provided by the Soviet Union, Egypt expelled UN peacekeepers who had been stationed in the Sinai Peninsula since the Suez conflict, and announced a blockade of Israel's access to the Red Sea (international waters) via the Straits of Tiran, which Israel considered an act of war. Tension escalated, with both sides' armies mobilising. Less than a month later, Israel launched a surprise strike which began the Six-Day War.\n\nThe conventional view and memoirs of key Israelis indicate that Israel's actions leading into the war were prudent and the blame for the war rested on Egypt. According to political scientist Zeev Maoz, most scholarly studies attribute the crisis to a complicated process of unwanted escalation, which all sides wanted to prevent, but for which all were ultimately responsible. Nasser knew that his blockade of the Straits of Tiran from Israeli vessel passage, on 23 May 1967, might very likely provide Israel with reason to launch war. His decisions to ask for the removal of the UN peacekeepers from Sinai and especially to block the Gulf of Aqaba to Israeli shipping via the Straits of Tiran, are commonly accepted as the point where war became inevitable. Some commentators consider the war as the classic case of anticipatory attack in self-defense, while in the 21st century the view that Israel acted in self-defense has become increasingly contested.\nAfter the 1956 Suez Crisis, Egypt agreed to the stationing of a United Nations Emergency Force (UNEF) in the Sinai to ensure all parties would comply with the 1949 Armistice Agreements. Despite the overwhelming support for Resolution 1000 in the UN General Assembly, Israel refused to allow UNEF forces onto its territory. In the following years, there were numerous minor border clashes between Israel and its Arab neighbors, particularly Syria. In early November, 1966, Syria signed a mutual defense agreement with Egypt. On November 13, 1966, in response to PLO (Palestine Liberation Organization) guerrilla activity, including a mine attack that left three dead, the Israeli Defence Force (IDF) attacked the village of as-Samu in the Jordanian-occupied West Bank. Jordanian units that engaged the Israelis were quickly beaten back. King Hussein of Jordan criticized Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser for failing to come to Jordan's aid, and \"hiding behind UNEF skirts\". Israel was censured for this invasion in United Nations Security Council Resolution 228, being reproached by the US, the UK, France and the USSR. On April 7, 1967 Israel invaded Syria. The USSR urged that the collective defense agreement with Egypt had been triggered. In May 1967, Nasser received false reports from the Soviet Union that Israel was massing on the Syrian border.\n\nNasser began massing his troops in the Sinai Peninsula on Israel's border (May 16), expelled the UNEF force from Gaza and Sinai (May 19) and took up UNEF positions at Sharm el-Sheikh, overlooking the Straits of Tiran. Israel reiterated declarations made in 1957 that any closure of the Straits would be considered an act of war, or justification for war. Nasser declared the Straits closed to Israeli shipping on May 22–23. On May 30, Jordan and Egypt signed a defense pact. The following day, at Jordan's invitation, the Iraqi army began deploying troops and armored units in Jordan. They were later reinforced by an Egyptian contingent. On June 1, Israel formed a National Unity Government by widening its cabinet, and on June 4 the decision was made to go to war. The next morning, Israel launched Operation Focus, a large-scale surprise air strike that launched the Six-Day War.\n\nThe peace accord at the end of the 1948 war had established demilitarized zones (DMZs) between Israel and Syria However, as recalled by UN military forces officers such as Odd Bull and Carl von Horn, Israelis gradually took over portions of the zone, evicting Arab villagers and demolishing their homes; these actions incurring protests from the UN Security Council. Moshe Dayan, the Israeli defense minister at the time of the Six Day War, recounted in a 1976 interview that Israeli policy in the Demilitarized Zone between 1949 and 1967 was \"to seize some territory and hold it until the enemy despairs and gives it to us\", thus changing \"the lines of the ceasefire accord with military actions that were less than a war\". Dayan related further that in the process Israel had provoked more than 80% of the border clashes with Syria in the lead-up to its April 7, 1967 invasion of Syria. In defense of the Israeli actions historian Michael Oren said that \"[t]here is an element of truth to Dayan's claim\", but that Israeli actions were justified, as \"Israel regarded the de-militarized zones in the north as part of their sovereign territory\". Gluska qualified this view by pointing out that such Israeli sovereignty over all of the DMZ \"was not sanctioned by the UN\". In fact the Israeli view had been rejected in 1951 by both Britain and the UN Security council (in Resolution 93). In January 1967 Israel reverted to claiming sovereignty over the DMZ.\n\nPublicly, Syria claimed that the escalating conflict was the result of Israel attempting to increase tension in order to justify a large-scale military operation against Syria, and to expand its occupation of the Demilitarized Zone by dispossessing the remaining Arab farmers.\n\nAccording to Moshe Shemesh, a historian and former senior intelligence officer in the IDF, Jordan's military and civilian leaders estimated that Israel's main objective was conquest of the West Bank. They felt that Israel was striving to drag all of the Arab countries into a war. After the Samu raid, these apprehensions became the deciding factor in Jordan's decision to participate in the war. King Hussein was convinced Israel would try to occupy the West Bank whether Jordan went to war, or not.\n\nAfter the 1956 war, Egypt agreed to reopen the Straits of Tiran to Israeli shipping, whose closure had been a significant catalyst in precipitating the Suez Crisis.\n\nThe Johnston Plan was a plan for the unified water resource development of the Jordan Valley, sponsored by UNRWA and accepted by the main Arab leader, Nasser, and by Jordan and Israel. In 1964, Israel began drawing water from the Jordan River for its National Water Carrier, in accordance with the Johnston Plan, reducing the flow that reached Hashemite territory to the Johnston Plan allocation. In January 1964 an Arab League summit meeting convened in Cairo, claimed that the diversion of the Jordan waters by Israel multiplies the dangers to Arab existence and decided to deprive Israel of 35% of the National Water Carrier capacity, by a diversion of the Jordan River headwaters (both the Hasbani and the Banias tributaries) to the Yarmouk River, although the scheme was only marginally feasible, it was technically difficult and expensive. The following year, the Arab states began construction of the Headwater Diversion Plan, which, once completed, would divert the waters of the Banias Stream before the water entered Israel and the Sea of Galilee, to flow instead into a dam at Mukhaiba for use by Jordan and Syria, and divert the waters of the Hasbani into the Litani River in Lebanon. The diversion works would have reduced the installed capacity of Israel's carrier by about 35%, and Israel's overall water supply by about 11%.\n\nThe Israel Defense Forces (IDF) attacked the diversion works in Syria in March, May, and August 1965, perpetuating a prolonged chain of border violence that linked directly to the events leading to war.\n\nAt the time, no Arab state had recognized Israel. Syria, aligned with the Soviet bloc, began sponsoring guerrilla raids on Israel in the early 1960s as part of its \"people's war of liberation\", designed to deflect domestic opposition to the Ba'ath Party.\n\nSpeaking to the UN General Assembly in September 1960, Nasser had stated that \"The only solution to Palestine is that matters should return to the condition prevailing before the error was committed — i.e., the annulment of Israel's existence.\" In 1964 he said, \"We swear to God that we shall not rest until we restore the Arab nation to Palestine and Palestine to the Arab nation. There is no room for imperialism and there is no room for Britain in our country, just as there is no room for Israel within the Arab nation.\" In 1965 he asserted, \"We shall not enter Palestine with its soil covered in sand, we shall enter it with its soil saturated in blood.\"\n\nEven after nearly two decades of its existence, no neighboring Arab country of Israel was willing to negotiate a peace agreement with Israel or accept its existence. Tunisian President Habib Bourgiba suggested in a speech in Jericho in 1965 that the Arab world should face reality and negotiate with Israel, but this was rejected by the other Arab countries.\n\nThe Suez Crisis of 1956 represented a military defeat but a political victory for Egypt, and set the stage leading to the Six-Day War. In a speech delivered to the Knesset, David Ben-Gurion said that the 1949 armistice agreement with Egypt was dead and buried, and that the armistice lines were no longer valid and could not be restored. Under no circumstances would Israel agree to the stationing of UN forces on its territory or in any area it occupied. Heavy diplomatic pressure from both the United States and the Soviet Union forced Israel into a conditional withdrawal of its military from the Sinai Peninsula, only after satisfactory arrangements had been made with the international force that was about to enter the canal zone.\n\nAfter the 1956 war, Egypt agreed to the stationing of a UN peacekeeping force in the Sinai, the United Nations Emergency Force, to keep that border region demilitarized, and prevent Palestinian fedayeen guerrillas from crossing the border into Israel.\n\nAs a result, the border between Egypt and Israel remained quiet for the vast majority of the period up to 1967.\n\nAfter the 1956 war, the region returned to an uneasy balance without resolution of any of the underlying issues.\n\nIn February 1960, tensions along the Israeli–Syrian border prompted Nasser to deploy Egyptian armed forces in northern Sinai. Only six days after troop movements had begun, did Israel learn of the presence of an Egyptian force, numbering around 500 tanks, on its undefended southern border. Caught off-guard, Israel scrambled to deploy its own forces, while Ben-Gurion adopted a policy of pacification to ease tensions and prevent the outbreak of hostilities.\n\nBoth sides eventually stood down, yet each drew different conclusions from the affair. Israeli national defence policy came to see any mass deployment of Egyptian forces on its border as unacceptable, and believed new rules had been set in place. Egypt, however, viewed the crisis as a great success. Egypt believed the deployment had prevented an Israeli attack on Syria, and it was thus possible to deter Israel with the mere deployment of forces, without the danger of going to war. The crisis was to have a direct effect on both sides during the events of May 1967, which eventually led to the Six-Day War. Both Israel and Egypt applied the lessons they had learned in the earlier affair. Indeed, these were at first perceived to be a repeat of the Rotem affair, and were expected to follow the same course. Major differences however gave the new crisis its own momentum and eventually led to war.\n\nThe long armistice line between Jordan and Israel was tense since the beginning of Fatah's guerrilla operations in January 1965. While Syria supported such operations, Egypt and Jordan refused to let PLO guerrillas operate from their territory. After 1965 the majority of raids on Israel originated from the Syrian border. Israel viewed the state from which the raids were perpetrated as responsible. King Hussein, the Hashemite ruler, was in a bind: he did not want to appear as cooperating with Israel in light of the delicate relationship of his government with the majority Palestinian population in his kingdom, and his success in preventing such raids was only partial. In the summer and autumn of 1966 the PLO carried out several guerrilla attacks that caused death and injury to Israeli civilians and military personnel. This culminated on November 11, 1966, when an Israeli border patrol hit a land mine, killing three soldiers and injuring six others. Israel believed the mine had been planted by militants from Es Samu, a village in the southern West Bank, close to where the incident took place, which was a Fatah stronghold. This led the Israeli cabinet to approve a large scale operation called 'Shredder'. On Friday, November 12, King Hussein of Jordan penned a letter of personal condolence to Israel which he cabled to U.S. ambassador to Israel, Walworth Barbour, through the U.S. embassy in Amman which passed it to Barbour in Tel Aviv. Barbour, believing there was no urgency to delivering the letter, left it on his desk over the weekend, thus failing to deliver it in a timely fashion.\n\nThe next day, on the morning of November 13, the Israel Defense Forces invaded Jordan, crossing the border into the West Bank and attacked Es Samu. The attacking force consisted of 3,000-4,000 soldiers backed by tanks and aircraft. They were divided into a reserve force, which remained on the Israeli side of the border, and two raiding parties, which crossed into the West Bank.\n\nThe larger force of eight Centurion Tanks, followed by 400 paratroopers mounted in 40 open-topped half-tracks and 60 engineers in 10 more half-tracks, headed for Samu; while a smaller force of three tanks and 100 paratroopers and engineers in 10 half-tracks headed towards two smaller villages: Kirbet El-Markas and Kirbet Jimba. According to Terrence Prittie's \"Eshkol: The Man and the Nation,\" 50 houses were destroyed, but the inhabitants had been evacuated hours before.\n\nTo Israel's surprise, the Jordanian military intervened. The 48th Infantry Battalion of the Jordanian Army ran into the Israeli forces northwest of Samu; and two companies approaching from the northeast were intercepted by the Israelis, while a platoon of Jordanians armed with two 106 mm recoilless guns entered Samu. The Jordanian Air Force intervened as well and a Jordanian Hunter fighter was shot down in the action. In the ensuing battles, three Jordanian civilians and 16 soldiers were killed; 54 other soldiers and 96 civilians were wounded. The commander of the Israeli paratroop battalion, Colonel Yoav Shaham, was killed and 10 other Israeli soldiers were wounded.\n\nAccording to the Israeli government, 50 Jordanians were killed, but the true number was never disclosed by the Jordanians, in order to keep up morale and confidence in King Hussein's regime. The whole battle was short: the Israeli forces crossed the ceasefire line at 6:00 A.M. and returned by 10:00 A.M.\n\nHussein felt betrayed by the operation which shattered the fragile trust between Israel and Jordan. He had been having secret meetings with Israeli foreign ministers Abba Eban and Golda Meir for three years. According to him he was doing everything he could to stop guerrilla attacks from the West Bank and Jordan. \"I told them I could not absorb a serious retaliatory raid, and they accepted the logic of this and promised there would never be one\".\n\nTwo days later, in a memo to U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson, his Special Assistant Walt Rostow wrote: \"retaliation is not the point in this case. This 3000-man raid with tanks and planes was out of all proportion to the provocation and was aimed at the wrong target,\" and went on to describe the damage done to US and Israeli interests:\nThey've wrecked a good system of tacit cooperation between Hussein and the Israelis... They've undercut Hussein. We've spent $500 million to shore him up as a stabilizing factor on Israel's longest border and vis-à-vis Syria and Iraq. Israel's attack increases the pressure on him to counterattack not only from the more radical Arab governments and from the Palestinians in Jordan but also from the Army, which is his main source of support and may now press for a chance to recoup its Sunday losses... They've set back progress toward a long term accommodation with the Arabs... They may have persuaded the Syrians that Israel didn't dare attack Soviet-protected Syria but could attack US-backed Jordan with impunity.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 228 unanimously deploring \"the loss of life and heavy damage to property resulting from the action of the Government of Israel on 13 November 1966\", censuring \"Israel for conducting \"a large-scale and carefully planned military action against Jordanian territory\" in violation of the United Nations Charter and of the General Armistice Agreement between Israel and Jordan\" and emphasizing \"to Israel that actions of military reprisal cannot be tolerated and that, if they are repeated, the Security Council will have to consider further and more effective steps as envisaged in the Charter to ensure against the repetition of such acts.\"\n\nFacing a storm of criticism from Jordanians, Palestinians, and his Arab neighbors for failing to protect Samu, Hussein ordered a nationwide mobilization on November 20. Hussein complained that Egypt and Syria had failed to protect the West Bank, while \"hiding behind UNEF skirts\"; this accusation may have been a factor in Nasser's decision to rid his country of the UNEF force on the eve of the Six-Day War.\n\nThis was the largest scale operation that Israel had been involved with since the Suez Crisis. While the diplomatic and political developments were not as Israel expected, following the operation Hussein worked hard to avoid any further clashes by preventing guerrilla operations from being launched from within Jordan.\n\nSome view the Samu attack as the beginning of the escalation in tensions that led to the war, with others going further to describe it as the first step in the prelude to war.\n\nOverall, Oren's account of the period portrays Israel as the innocent victim of Syrian provocation and aggression. From the Golan Heights, Syrians had shelled Israeli settlements and other targets, such as fishermen in the Sea of Galilee, drawing punitive responsive strikes from Israel. In addition, following the 1966 Syrian coup d'état, attacks and acts of sabotage by Syrian-based Palestinian guerrillas (Fatah) had increased, although Jordan was still the main source. For two and a half years from the start of the attacks up until the Israeli invasion of Syria on April 7, 1967, the Fatah incursions launched from Syrian territory had resulted in three Israeli deaths, all of them soldiers. In September 1966 the Israeli Chief of Staff Yitzhak Rabin gave an interview in which he stated that Israeli actions \"should be aimed at those who carry out the attacks and at the regime that supports them\". These 'unfortunate' words were interpreted as a 'plot' to bring down the Syrian government.\n\nSyria also claimed that Syrian shelling had always occurred in response to Israeli firing on peaceful Arab farmers or Syrian posts. This point, also raised by Dayan in his interview, is further supported by the eye-witness accounts of Dutch UN Observer force Colonel Jan Mühren who attested to the Israeli practice of using armoured tractors to farm in the DMZ in areas prohibited by the 1949 Armistice agreement. These activities would draw Syrian fire, to which Israel would respond with its own forces. However, the vague 1949 Armistice agreement had not prohibited civil activity in the DMZ.\n\nIn November 1966, Egypt and Syria signed a defense pact whereby each country would support the other if it were attacked. According to Indar Jit Rikhye, Egyptian Foreign Minister Mahmoud Riad told him that the Soviet Union had persuaded Egypt to enter the pact with two ideas in mind: to reduce the chances of a punitive attack on Syria by Israel, and to bring the Syrians under Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser's moderating influence. In January 1967 the Israeli Minister of Health, Yisrael Barzilai, warned that Egypt’s commitment to Syria under their mutual defense pact \"could escalate the situation and nobody foresee how it will end\".\n\nDuring a visit to London in February 1967, Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban briefed journalists on Israel's \"hopes and anxieties\" explaining to those present that, although the governments of Lebanon, Jordan and the United Arab Republic (Egypt's official name until 1971) seemed to have decided against active confrontation with Israel, it remained to be seen whether Syria could maintain a minimal level of restraint at which hostility was confined to rhetoric. At the same time Israel was planning, approving and executing the provocations of Syria along the DMZ referred to by Dayan. The provocations were sending a tractor to plow in the demilitarized areas. The Syrians would fire on these tractors and would frequently shell Israeli settlements. This reached a critical point when armored tractor work on land in the southern demilitarized zone close to Kibbutz Ha-On was scheduled. It was anticipated that the Syrians would react. The Israeli Air Force was placed on alert. Prime Minister Eshkol approved the plan.\n\nEarlier in the week, Syria had twice attacked an Israeli tractor working in the DMZ area. When the tractor returned on the morning of April 7, 1967, as predicted in the plan, the Syrians opened fire again initially with light weapons. The Israelis responded by sending in armor-plated tractors to continue ploughing, resulting in further exchanges of fire. The resulting tit-for-tat escalated, leading to tanks, heavy mortars, machine guns, and artillery being used in various sections along the 47 mile (76 km) border in what was described as \"a dispute over cultivation rights in the demilitarized zone south-east of Lake Tiberias.\" At this point the critical departure from previous incidents occurred. Without advance planning nor having been submitted for prior approval to the Ministerial Committee on Security, Israeli aircraft dive-bombed Syrian positions with 250 and 500 kg bombs. For the first time the IAF was employed before an Israeli settlement had actually been shelled (with the exception of stray shells which fell in Tel Katzir) and Israeli planes penetrated as far as Damascus. The Syrians then responded by shelling Israeli border settlements heavily, and Israeli jets retaliated by bombing the village of Sqoufiye, destroying around 40 houses in the process. At 15:19 Syrian shells started falling on Kibbutz Gadot; over 300 landed within the kibbutz compound in 40 minutes. The \"incident\" had escalated into a full-scale aerial battle over the Golan Heights after Israel scrambled jets, resulting in the loss of six Syrian Air Force MiG-21s to Israeli Air Force Dassault Mirage IIIs, and the latter's flight over Damascus. The United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO) attempted to arrange a ceasefire, but Syria declined to co-operate unless Israeli agricultural work was halted. The Israeli newspaper Maariv wrote \"This was not an 'incident' but a real war.\" Under these circumstances, the Soviet Union intervened to halt the downward course of events and to deter Israel by activating the Egyptian–Syrian defense pact signed in November 1966 under Soviet pressure for this precise purpose.\n\nAlthough the April 7 cross-border battle is often called an 'incident', various reactions to the event belie this description. The Israeli press called it a war. Moshe Dayan was reported by Ezer Weismann to have responded \"Have you lost your minds? You are leading the country to war!\". Brigadier-General Israel Lior agreed: \"From my point of view, the Six-Day War had begun.\" On April 21, 1967 as in May 1966. the Soviet deputy foreign minister, Yaakov Malik, relayed an oral message to the Israeli ambassador in Moscow: \"The government of the Soviet Union sees the need to warn again the government of Israel that the hazardous policy it has been waging for several years is fraught with danger, and [Israel] will be held solely responsible.\n\nSpeaking to a Mapai party meeting in Jerusalem on May 11 Prime Minister of Israel Levi Eshkol warned that Israel would not hesitate to use air power on the scale of 7 April in response to continued border terrorism, and on the same day Israeli envoy Gideon Rafael presented a letter to the president of the Security Council warning that Israel would \"act in self-defense as circumstances warrant\". Writing from Tel Aviv on May 12, James Feron reported that some Israeli leaders had decided to use force against Syria \"of considerable strength but of short duration and limited in area\" and quoted \"one qualified observer\" who \"said it was highly unlikely that Egypt (then officially called United Arab Republic), Syria's closest ally in the Arab world, would enter the hostilities unless the Israeli attack were extensive\". In early May the Israeli cabinet authorized a limited strike against Syria, but Rabin's renewed demand for a large-scale strike to discredit or topple the Ba'ath regime was opposed by Eshkol. BBC journalist Jeremy Bowen reports:\n\nThe toughest threat was reported by the news agency United Press International (UPI) on 12 May: 'A high Israeli source said today that Israel would take limited military action designed to topple the Damascus army regime if Syrian terrorists continue sabotage raids inside Israel. Military observers said such an offensive would fall short of all-out war but would be mounted to deliver a telling blow against the Syrian government.' In the West as well as the Arab world the immediate assumption was that the unnamed source was Rabin and that he was serious. In fact, it was Brigadier-General Aharon Yariv, the head of military intelligence, and the story was overwritten. Yariv mentioned 'an all-out invasion of Syria and conquest of Damascus' but only as the most extreme of a range of possibilities. But the damage had been done. Tension was so high that most people, and not just the Arabs, assumed that something much bigger than usual was being planned against Syria.\n\nBorder incidents multiplied and numerous Arab leaders, both political and military, called for an end to Israeli attacks. Egypt, then already trying to seize a central position in the Arab world under Nasser, accompanied these declarations with plans to re-militarize the Sinai. Syria shared these views, although it did not prepare for an immediate invasion. The Soviet Union actively backed the military needs of the Arab states.\n\nIn April 1967, after meeting with Nasser, Lucius D. Battle, The U.S ambassador in Egypt reported to Washington that Nasser plans to deflect mounting internal pressure against his regime by creating a foreign policy crisis which could be to heat up the Israeli situation.\n\nIn 1967, Israeli leaders repeatedly threatened to invade Syria and overthrow the Syrian government if Palestinian guerrilla actions across the border did not cease. In that context, the Soviet Union fed the Syrian government false information in the Spring of 1967 that Israel was planning to invade Syria.\n\nOn May 13, a Soviet intelligence report given by Soviet President Nikolai Podgorny to Egyptian Vice President Anwar Sadat likewise claimed falsely that Israeli troops were massing along the Syrian border. On May 14, Nasser sent his chief of staff, General Fawzi, to Syria in order to verify the Soviet warning.\n\nEgyptian President Nasser was in a difficult position. He had received humiliating rebukes for Egypt's lack of action after the recent Israeli attacks on Jordan and Syria in April 1967. This, combined with Israeli threats to topple the Syrian regime and the Soviet urging that the Syrian-Egyptian defence agreement had thereby been triggered, left Nasser feeling as though he had no option other than to display solidarity with Syria. On 14 May, Nasser began the re-militarization of the Sinai, and concentrated tanks and troops there. This move was reminiscent of what he had done in the Rotem Crisis, although this time it was done openly. Fawzi reported to Nasser that the Soviet alarm about an Israeli plot to attack Syria was baseless, but Nasser continued to pour his divisions into Sinai.\n\nEgyptian Field Marshal Abdel Hakim Amer explained to (Soviet Ambassador) Pozhidaev that the influx of troops into Sinai was for deterrence: \"Israel will not risk starting major military actions against Syria, because if it does Egyptian military units, having occupied forward initial positions on this border will immediately move out on the basis of the mutual defense agreement with Syria.\" On May 16, Ahmed el-Feki, Egypt's Under Secretary of State, assured David Nes, US chargé d'affaires in Cairo that Egypt would not \"take the initiative in attacking Israel.\" But in case of a large-scale Israeli attack against its neighbors, el-Feki said, Egypt would come to their aid. Nes came away from the conversation \"certain\" that Egypt had \"no aggressive intent.\"\n\nThe reasons for Nasser's decisions to expel the UN peacekeepers (UNEF) and the move to reinforce Egyptian forces in the Sinai were reported to the Israeli government by Prime Minister Eshkol on May 16, 1967 as follows:\n\"It is estimated that, in light of Syrian reports and appeals to Egypt regarding Israel’s intention to take major action against Syria; in light of declarations and warnings issued by Israel in the past few days; and Egypt’s predicament since April. Egypt has come to the decision that in the present circumstances it cannot sit by idly. It has therefore decided, in the face of the Israeli threat, to demonstrate readiness to come to Syria’s aid within the framework of the mutual defence pact. At the same time, it may be assumed that the Egyptians hope that their actions and demonstration will achieve the practical effect of deterring Israel from implementing its threat.\"\n\nAt 10:00 p.m. on May 16, the commander of United Nations Emergency Force, General Indar Jit Rikhye, was handed a letter from General Mohammed Fawzy, Chief of Staff of the United Arab Republic, reading: \"To your information, I gave my instructions to all UAR armed forces to be ready for action against Israel, the moment it might carry out any aggressive action against any Arab country. Due to these instructions our troops are already concentrated in Sinai on our eastern border. For the sake of complete security of all UN troops which install OPs along our borders, I request that you issue your orders to withdraw all these troops immediately.\" The emissary who delivered the letter requested immediate withdrawal of United Nations troops from Sharm el Sheikh as well. Rikhye said he would report to the Secretary-General for instructions.\n\nThe UNEF was established following the Suez crisis in 1956 by various resolutions of the Security Council culminating in resolution 1001. Egypt agreed to the presence of the unit on her territory. Israel refused.\n\nInitially, Nasser's letter had not demanded a full withdrawal of UNEF, but that they vacate the Sinai and concentrate in Gaza. Detailed archival studies revealed that the original letter had not included a request to withdraw troops from Sharm el-Sheik, overlooking the Straits of Tiran. The UN Secretary-General, U Thant, demanded an all-or-nothing clarification from Nasser, leaving the Egyptians with little choice but to ask for their total withdrawal. U Thant then attempted to negotiate with the Egyptian government, but on May 18 the Egyptian Foreign Minister informed nations with troops in UNEF that the UNEF mission in Egypt and the Gaza Strip had been terminated and that they must leave immediately. Egyptian forces then prevented UNEF troops from entering their posts. The Governments of India and Yugoslavia decided to withdraw their troops from UNEF, regardless of the decision of U Thant. While this was taking place, U Thant suggested that UNEF be redeployed to the Israeli side of the border, but Israel refused, arguing that UNEF contingents from countries hostile to Israel would be more likely to impede an Israeli response to Egyptian aggression than to stop that aggression in the first place. The Permanent Representative of Egypt then informed U Thant that the Egyptian government had decided to terminate UNEF's presence in the Sinai and the Gaza Strip, and requested steps that would withdraw the force as soon as possible. The UNEF commander was given the order to begin withdrawal on May 19.\n\nThe withdrawal of UNEF was to be spaced over a period of some weeks. The troops were to be withdrawn by air and by sea from Port Said. The withdrawal plan envisaged that the last personnel of UNEF would leave the area on June 30, 1967. On the morning of May 27, Egypt demanded that the Canadian contingent be evacuated within 48 hours \"on grounds of the attitude adopted by the Government of Canada in connection with UNEF and the United Arab Republic Government's request for its withdrawal, and ‘to prevent any probable reaction from the people of the United Arab Republic against the Canadian Forces in UNEF.’\" The withdrawal of the Canadian contingent was accelerated and completed on May 31, with the effect that UNEF was left without its logistics and air support components. In the war itself 15 members of the remaining force were killed and the rest evacuated through Israel.\n\nBefore UNEF could be deployed in 1956 negotiations were necessary with the compliant host country, Egypt, Israel having refused to host the peacekeepers.\n\nRostow is of a contrary opinion that \"Egyptian commitments of the period were broken one by one, the last being the request for the removal of U.N.E.F.\" In another publication Rostow adds detail: \"One of the most important terms of the agreement was set out in an aide memoire by Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold: if Egypt ever tried unilaterally to remove the United Nations peacekeeping forces in the Sinai, or to close the Straits of Tiran, the Secretary-General would call the Security Council into session immediately and block such initiatives until a peaceful resolution of the conflict could be reached.\" Oren, however, confirms Egypt's right as follows: \"That (UNEF) presence, however, hung on a legal fiction. The \"good-faith agreement\" forged by Dag Hammarskjold in 1957, according to which Egypt would consult with the General Assembly and the UNEF Advisory Council before altering the force’s mandate, was in no way binding. The Egyptians could, in fact, dismiss UNEF whenever they chose. Bunche (UN expert on Middle East diplomacy) fully adhered to the secretary-general’s position that Egypt had a sovereign right to dismiss UNEF’, however imprudent that decision might be.\" Further contrary to Rostow's position, the Secretary-General in 1967, U Thant, specifically addressed the Hammarskjold memoire during the build-up of tension, declaring that the 1957 memorandum by the late Secretary-General, which had interpreted the agreement on UNEF between the United Nations and Egypt as meaning that an Egyptian request for UNEF withdrawal would have to be referred to the General Assembly, was “a purely private” understanding by Mr. Hammarskjold and not binding either on the present Secretary-General or on Egypt.\n\nThe United States did not find a UNEF withdrawal overly worrying. Walworth Barbour, US ambassador in Tel Aviv, told Israeli officials that the withdrawal did not affect the \"fundamental military situation,\" and that there was \"every reason for Nasser\" not to attack Israel. Egypt volunteered that if Israel were concerned about an Egyptian invasion, it could accept UNEF on its own side of the armistice line. \"If Israel wants them to stay,\" Field Marshal Amer told Soviet Ambassador Pozhidaev, \"it can make its own territory available.\" U Thant was thinking along the same lines. On May 18, he posed that option to Israel's UN ambassador, Gideon Rafael, as a protection against a possible invasion. Rafael replied that this option was \"entirely unacceptable to his Government.\"\n\nJacques Roux, France's ambassador in Cairo, gave Maurice Couve de Murville, the French foreign minister, an assessment that Egypt was making its moves in reaction to accusations that Egypt was not living up to its obligations to other Arab states. The request for a UNEF withdrawal did not, in Roux's view, mean that the Egyptian leadership was embarking on \"an adventure.\"\n\nIsrael was not particularly troubled by the evacuation of the UNEF in itself. There were some who even thought that it would be to Israel’s advantage.\n\nIsraeli Prime Minister Eshkol repeated declarations that Israel had made in 1957, saying that closure of the Straits of Tiran would be an act of war. Then, on May 22, Egypt responded by announcing, in addition to the UN withdrawal, that the Straits of Tiran would be closed to \"all ships flying Israeli flags or carrying strategic materials\", with effect from May 23. In order to enforce the blockade, Egypt falsely announced that the Tiran straits had been mined. 90% of Israeli oil passed through the Straits of Tiran. Oil tankers that were due to pass through the straits were delayed.\n\nAccording to Sami Sharaf, Minister of State for Presidential Affairs, Nasser knew that the decision to block the Tiran straits made the war \"inevitable\". Nasser stated, \"Under no circumstances can we permit the Israeli flag to pass through the Gulf of Aqaba.\" The closure of the Tiran Straits was closely linked to the previous withdrawal of the UN peacekeepers, because having the peacekeepers (rather than the Egyptian military) at Sharm el Sheik was important for keeping that waterway open.\n\nIn his speech to Arab trade unionists on May 26, Nasser announced: \"If Israel embarks on an aggression against Syria or Egypt, the battle against Israel will be a general one and not confined to one spot on the Syrian or Egyptian borders. The battle will be a general one and our basic objective will be to destroy Israel.\"\n\nNasser publicly denied that Egypt would strike first and spoke of a negotiated peace if Israel allowed all Palestinian refugees the right of return, and of a possible compromise over the Straits of Tiran.\n\nEgypt stated that the Gulf of Aqaba had always been a national inland waterway subject to the sovereignty of the only three legitimate littoral States — Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and Egypt — who had the right to bar enemy vessels. The representative of the United Arab Republic further stated that \"Israel's claim to have a port on the Gulf was considered invalid, as Israel was alleged to have occupied several miles of coastline on the Gulfline, including Umm Rashrash, in violation of Security Council resolutions of 1948 and the Egyptian-Israel General Armistice Agreement.\"\n\nThe Arab states disputed Israel's right of passage through the Straits, noting they had not signed the Convention on the Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone specifically because of article 16(4) which provided Israel with that right.\n\nIn the United Nations General Assembly debates after the war, the Arab states and their supporters argued that even if international law gave Israel the right of passage, Israel was not entitled to attack Egypt to assert that right, because the closure was not an \"armed attack\" as defined by Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. \nSupporting this view in a letter written to the \"New York Times\" in June 1967, lawyer Roger Fisher argued that\n\nThe United Arab Republic had a good legal case for restricting traffic through the Strait of Tiran. First it is debatable whether international law confers any right of innocent passage through such a waterway... [Secondly]... a right of innocent passage is not a right of free passage for any cargo at any time. In the words of the Convention on the Territorial Sea: 'Passage is innocent so long as it is not prejudicial to the peace, good order, or security of the coastal state... taking the facts as they were I, as an international lawyer, would rather defend before the International Court of Justice the legality of the U.A.R's action in closing the Strait of Tiran than to argue the other side of the case...\nAfter the 1956 campaign in which Israel conquered Sharm el-Sheikh and opened the blocked Straits, it was forced to withdraw and return the territory to Egypt. At the time, members of the international community pledged that Israel would never again be denied use of the Straits of Tiran. The French representative to the UN, for example, announced that an attempt to interfere with free shipping in the Straits would be against international law, and American President Dwight Eisenhower went so far as publicly to recognize that reimposing a blockade in the Straits of Tiran would be seen as an aggressive act which would oblige Israel to protect its maritime rights in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter.\n\nThe rights of Egypt regarding the Straits of Tiran had been debated at the General Assembly pursuant to Israel's withdrawal from the Sinai following the Suez Crisis. A number of states, including Australia, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States argued that the Straits were international waters, and, as such, all vessels had the right of \"free and innocent passage\" through them. India, however, argued that Egypt was entitled to require foreign ships to obtain its consent before seeking access to the gulf because its territorial sea covered the Straits of Tiran. It too recognized the right of innocent passage through such waters, but argued it was up to the coastal State to decide which passage was \"innocent\".\n\nIsrael’s political ‘anchor’ in its efforts to prevent any disruption of freedom of shipping through the Straits was a statement by then Foreign Minister Golda Meir at the UN Assembly on 1 March 1957, while announcing her government’s decision to respond to the demand for withdrawal from Sinai and the Gaza Strip, to the effect that Israel would view disruption of free shipping through the Tiran Straits as an act of aggression and would reserve the right to react in accordance with Clause 51 of the UN Charter.\n\nInternational law professor John Quigley argues that under the doctrine of proportionality, Israel would only be entitled to use such force as would be necessary to secure its right of passage.\n\nState practice and customary international law is that ships of all states have a right of innocent passage through territorial seas. That Egypt had consistently granted passage as a matter of state practice until then suggests that its \"opinio juris\" in that regard was consistent with practice. Moreover, during the Egyptian occupation of the Saudi islands of Sanafir and Tiran in 1950, it provided assurances to the US that the military occupation would not be used to prevent free passage, and that Egypt recognizes that such free passage is \"in conformity with the international practice and the recognized principles of international law.\". In 1949 the International Court of Justice held in the Corfu Channel Case (\"United Kingdom v. Albania\") that where a strait was overlapped by a territorial sea foreign ships, including warships, had unsuspendable right of innocent passage through such straits used for international navigation between parts of the high seas, but express provision for innocent passage through straits within the territorial sea of a foreign state was not codified until the 1958 Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone.\n\nCaught up in Arab enthusiasm for military action and encouraged by the lack of response to the closure of the Straits, Egyptian Field Marshal Amer planned for initiating an attack on Israel in late May. He told one of his generals that \"This time we will be the ones to start the war.\" This was counter to Nasser's strategy of pushing Israel to start the war. Historian Michael Oren states that Egyptian sources are divided over why Nasser did not veto Amer's plan. Oren suggests that \"Nasser was apprised of [the plan] but lacked the political strength to override Amer's order. Also, the preparation of an Egyptian invasion of Israel had certain advantages for Nasser...\" The Egyptian attack plan was code-named Operation Dawn, and was planned by General Abdel Hakim Amer. It called for the strategic bombing of Israeli airfields, ports, cities, and the Negev Nuclear Research Center. Arab armies would then invade Israel, and cut it in half with an armored thrust through the Negev.\n\nOn May 25, 1967, Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban landed in Washington \"with instructions to discuss American plans to re-open the Straits of Tiran\". As soon as he arrived, he was given new instructions in a cable from the Israeli government. The cable said that Israel had learned of an imminent Egyptian attack, which overshadowed the blockade. No longer was he to emphasize the Straits issue; he was instructed to ‘inform the highest authorities of this new threat and to request an official statement from the United States that an attack on Israel would be viewed as an attack on the United States.\" Historian Michael Oren explains Eban's reaction to the new instructions: \"Eban was livid. Unconvinced that Nasser was either determined or even able to attack, he now saw Israelis inflating the Egyptian threat — and flaunting their weakness — in order to extract a pledge that the President, Congress-bound, could never make.\" He described the cable as an \"...act of momentous irresponsibility... eccentric...\" which \"lacked wisdom, veracity and tactical understanding,\" and later came to the conclusion that the genesis of the cable was Rabin's indecisive state of mind. According to historian Tom Segev, the instructions sent to Eban in Washington were an attempt to mislead him, and through him president Johnson, to support Israel.\n\nDespite his own skepticism, Eban followed his instructions during his first meeting with Secretary Rusk, Under Secretary Rostow, and Assistant Secretary Lucius Battle. American intelligence experts spent the night analyzing each of the Israeli claims. On May 26, Eban met with United States Secretary of State Dean Rusk, Defense Secretary Robert McNamara, and finally with President Lyndon B. Johnson. In a memo to the President, Rusk rejected the claim of an Egyptian and Syrian attack being imminent, plainly stating \"our intelligence does not confirm [the] Israeli estimate\". According to declassified documents from the Johnson Presidential Library, President Johnson and other top officials in the administration did not believe war between Israel and its neighbors was necessary or inevitable. \"All of our intelligence people are unanimous that if the UAR attacks, you will whip hell out of them\", Johnson told Eban during a visit to the White House on May 26. Consequently, Johnson declined to airlift special military supplies to Israel or even to publicly support it. Eban left the White House distraught.\n\nIn a lecture given in 2002, Oren said, \"Johnson sat around with his advisors and said, ‘What if their intelligence sources are better than ours?’ Johnson decided to fire off a Hotline message to his counterpart in the Kremlin, Alexei Kosygin, in which he said, ‘We've heard from the Israelis, but we can't corroborate it, that your proxies in the Middle East, the Egyptians, plan to launch an attack against Israel in the next 48 hours. If you don't want to start a global crisis, prevent them from doing that.’ At 2:30 a.m. on May 27, Soviet Ambassador to Egypt Dimitri Pojidaev knocked on Nasser's door and read him a personal letter from Kosygin in which he said, ‘We don't want Egypt to be blamed for starting a war in the Middle East. If you launch that attack, we cannot support you.’\n\nAccording to Oren, Nasser knew that operation Dawn was already set to be launched in only few hours time, at sunrise. His mood soured since he realized that Israel had accessed Egyptian secrets and compromised them. Nasser hurried to an emergency meeting at the headquarters, and told Amer about the exposure of Dawn and asked him to cancel the planned attack. Amer consulted his sources in the Kremlin, and they corroborated the substance of Kosygin's message. Despondent, Amer told the commander of Egypt's air force, Major General Mahmud Sidqi, that the operation was cancelled.\" The cancellation orders arrived to the pilots when they were already in their planes, awaiting the final go ahead.\n\nAccording to then Egyptian Vice-President Hussein el-Shafei, as soon as Nasser knew what Amer planned, he cancelled the operation. According to John Quigley, there is thin evidence that there was any Egyptian plan to attack Israel that would actually have been carried out.\n\nAbdel Magid Farid, suggests that Nasser did actually consider the first strike option until early on 27 May, when he was hauled out of bed at mid night by the Soviet Union ambassador (his only source of arms and spare parts) and warned not to precipitate a confrontation. Other evidence, however, suggests he never intended to strike first. Nasser rejected the first strike option as politically impossible as he felt it would provide a pretext for Israel and the U.S, and alienate the Soviets. All of Nasser's plans were based on an assumption the Israelis would strike first.\n\nThe Israeli government asked the U.S. and UK to reopen the Straits of Tiran, as they had guaranteed they would in 1957. Harold Wilson's proposal of an international maritime force to quell the crisis was adopted by President Johnson, but received little support, with only Britain and the Netherlands offering to contribute ships. The British cabinet later stated that there was a new balance of power in the Middle East, led by the United Arab Republic, that was A) to the detriment of Israel and the Western powers and B) something Israel was going to have to learn to live with.\n\nUnited Nations Secretary-General U Thant also went to Cairo to help negotiate an agreement to avoid conflict. UN Secretary General, U Thant, visited Cairo for mediation and a renewed diplomatic effort to solve the crisis. Talks failed as President Nasser kept the straits closed and Israel refused to accept the UN troops on its side of the border.\n\nMost American diplomats who worked in the Middle East were sympathetic to Nasser's views on the Straits, with several of them arguing that the US should ignore both its on-the-record promises to Israel regarding the Straits being open and international law; a few diplomats who were not as impressed by threats from Arab nations advised the Johnson Administration to back the flotilla option as a \"show of force\" that would forestall war from breaking out.\n\nThe US also tried to mediate, and Nasser agreed to send his vice-president to Washington to explore a diplomatic settlement. The meeting did not happen because Israel launched its offensive.\n\nOn May 30, Nasser responded to Johnson's request of 11 days earlier and agreed to send his Vice President, Zakkariya Muhieddin, to Washington on June 7 to explore a diplomatic settlement in \"precisely the opening the White House had sought\".\n\nDuring May and June the Israeli government had worked hard to keep Jordan out of any war; it was concerned about being attacked on multiple fronts, and did not want to have to deal with the Jordanian West Bank. Israel called upon Jordan numerous times to refrain from hostilities. Israel's own sense of concern regarding Jordan's future role stemmed from the Jordanian control of the West Bank. This put Arab forces just 17 kilometers from Israel's coast, a jump-off point from which a well-coordinated tank assault would likely cut Israel in two within half an hour. Hussein had doubled the size of Jordan's army in the last decade and had US training and arms delivered as recently as early 1967, and it was feared that it could be used by other Arab states as staging grounds for operations against Israel; thus, an attack from the West Bank was always viewed by the Israeli leadership as a threat to Israel's existence.\n\nHowever, Jordan's King Hussein got caught up in the wave of pan-Arab nationalism preceding the war;. According to Mutawi, Hussein was caught on the horns of a galling dilemma: allow Jordan to be dragged into war and face the brunt of the Israeli response, or remain neutral and risk full-scale insurrection among his own people. Army Commander-in-Chief General Sharif Zaid Ben Shaker warned in a press conference that \"If Jordan does not join the war a civil war will erupt in Jordan\". However, according to Avi Shlaim, Hussein's actions were prompted by his feelings of Arab nationalism.\n\nAn extremely important change took place on May 30, when Jordan signed a mutual defense treaty with Egypt, thereby joining the military alliance already in place between Egypt and Syria. The move surprised both Egyptians and foreign observers, because President Nasser had generally been at odds with Hussein, calling him an \"imperialist lackey\" just days earlier. Nasser said that any differences between him and Hussein were erased \"in one moment\" and declared: \"Our basic objective will be the destruction of Israel. The Arab people want to fight.\"\n\nAt the end of May 1967, Jordanian forces were given to the command of an Egyptian general, Abdul Munim Riad. On the same day, Nasser proclaimed: \"The armies of Egypt, Jordan and Syria are poised on the borders of Israel ... to face the challenge, while standing behind us are the armies of Iraq, Algeria, Kuwait, Sudan and the whole Arab nation. This act will astound the world. Today they will know that the Arabs are arranged for battle, the critical hour has arrived. We have reached the stage of serious action and not of more declarations.\"\n\nThe U.S president envoy reported from Cairo on 30 May that Nasser \"cannot and will not retreat\" and \"he would probably welcome, but not seek, military showdown with Israel\".\n\nOn June 3, days before the war, Egypt flew to Amman two battalions of commandos tasked with infiltrating Israel's borders and engaging in attacks and bombings so as to draw IDF into a Jordanian front and ease the pressure on the Egyptians. Soviet-made artillery and Egyptian military supplies and crews were also flown to Jordan.\n\nAt the same time several other Arab states not bordering Israel, including Iraq, Sudan, Kuwait and Algeria, began mobilizing their armed forces.\n\nWriting from Egypt on June 4, 1967, \"New York Times\" journalist James Reston observed: \"Cairo does not want war and it is certainly not ready for war. But it has already accepted the possibility, even the likelihood, of war, as if it had lost control of the situation.\"\n\nPresident Abdul Rahman Arif of Iraq said that \"the existence of Israel is an error which must be rectified. This is an opportunity to wipe out the ignominy which has been with us since 1948\". The Iraqi Prime Minister predicted that \"there will be practically no Jewish survivors\".\n\nIn May 1967, Hafez al-Assad, then Syria's Defense Minister declared: \"Our forces are now entirely ready not only to repulse the aggression, but to initiate the act of liberation itself, and to explode the Zionist presence in the Arab homeland. The Syrian Army, with its finger on the trigger, is united... I, as a military man, believe that the time has come to enter into a battle of annihilation.\"\n\nSpurred by the virulent Arab rhetoric, mounting concern and pressure from the media, public bellicose statements by their military, the unexpected major battle over Syria in April, the consequences thereof for the Egyptian-Syrian defense agreement, the expulsion of UNEF, and the mobilization of Egyptian troops into Sinai, the Israeli public sense was of heightened fear and of an approaching holocaust.\n\nYitzhak Rabin reported that the cabinet was deadlocked over the issue of the blockade. Interior Minister Haim-Moshe Shapira in particular had pointed out that the Straits had been closed from 1951 to 1956 without the situation endangering Israel's security.\n\nNonetheless, on May 22 General Rabin reported to Israel's cabinet that the Egyptian forces were in a defensive posture, that they were not being deployed to attack. The IDF concluded that Nasser meant to intervene in case of an Israeli attack against Syria. On 23 May, Rabin realized that by blocking the Tiran straits, Nasser probably understood that he was going to war.\n\nThe Israeli cabinet met on May 23 and decided to launch an attack if the Straits of Tiran were not re-opened by May 25. Following an approach from United States Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Eugene Rostow to allow time for the negotiation of a nonviolent solution, Israel agreed to a delay of ten days to two weeks.\n\nOn May 24 Prime Minister Eshkol told his generals: \"Nobody ever said we were an army for preventive war ... I do not accept the mere fact that the Egyptian army is deployed in Sinai makes war inevitable. ... You did not receive all these weapons in order for you to say that now we are ready and well-equipped to destroy the Egyptian army, so we must do it\".\n\nU. S. intelligence likewise did not expect Egypt to attack in the absence of an Israeli invasion of Syria. On May 26 the United States communicated that assessment to Israel.\n\nOn 30 May Jordan joined Egypt and Israel felt threatened also by the opening of Jordan to Iraqi and other Arab troops and an Israeli preemptive attack became more likely.\n\nWhile the generals were more troubled by the tanks and fighter airplanes that Nasser kept pouring into Sinai, the Israeli government were preoccupied with the Tiran Straits closure. Within Israel's political leadership, it was decided that if the US would not act, and if the UN could not act, then Israel would have to act. On 1 June, Moshe Dayan was made Israeli Defense Minister, and on June 3 the Johnson administration gave an ambiguous statement; Israel continued to prepare for war. Israel's attack against Egypt on June 5 began what would later be dubbed the Six-Day War.\nThe CIA assessed that Israel could \"defend successfully against simultaneous Arab attacks on all fronts... or hold on any three fronts while mounting successfully a major offensive on the fourth.\"\n\nDays before the war, the C.I.A assessed that Israel failed to take the instant military counteraction to Nasser's steps which might have been most effective. An attack would still be able to drive the Egyptians away from the entrance to the Strait of Tiran, but it would certainly cost Israel heavy losses of men and materiel, and doubted if Israel had sufficient war supply for a few weeks war.\n\nThe Soviet leadership considered the armed forces of Egypt, Syria, Algeria and Iraq as superior to the IDF in number of troops, tanks, planes, ships and amount of armaments. They had been equipped with the most modern weapons, and had received high-level training from the Soviets. They estimated mistakenly, that Israel was militarily weak, and operated under the illusion that Arab armies could easily repel any Israeli attack and defeat the IDF on the battlefield.\n\nIsrael viewed the Straits of Tiran as a vital interest, through which Israel received vital imports, mainly oil from Iran, and a blockade threatened Israel's ability to develop the Negev.\n\nFormer Chief of Staff of the armed forces, Haim Bar-Lev (a deputy chief during the war) stated: \"the entrance of the Egyptians into Sinai was not a casus belli,\" but argued instead that the Egyptian blockade of the Straits of Tiran ultimately caused the war.\n\nAfter the closing of the Straits of Tiran, Israeli Foreign Minister, Abba Eban, contended that this was enough to start the war. Eban said, \"From May the 24th onward, the question who started the war or who fired the first shot became momentously irrelevant. There is no difference in civil law between murdering a man by slow strangulation or killing him by a shot in the head... From the moment at which the blockade was posed, active hostilities had commenced, and Israel owed Egypt nothing of her Charter rights.\"\n\nWhile not viewed by the Israeli military as an imminent threat, the presence of a long-term direct and 'immediate' threat on the border would require the IDF to mobilize its reserves and stand ready, thus severely disrupting normal life in Israel at intolerable economic cost.\n\nWriting in 2002, American National Public Radio journalist Mike Shuster expressed a view that was prevalent in Israel before the war that the country \"was surrounded by Arab states dedicated to its eradication. Egypt was ruled by Gamal Abdel Nasser, a firebrand nationalist whose army was the strongest in the Arab Middle East. Syria was governed by the radical Baathist Party, constantly issuing threats to push Israel into the sea.\" With what Israel saw as provocative acts by Nasser, including the blockade of the Straits and the mobilization of forces in the Sinai, creating military and economic pressure, and the United States temporizing because of its entanglement in the Vietnam War, Israel's political and military elite came to feel that preemption was not merely militarily preferable, but transformative.\n\nMajor General Mattityahu Peled, the Chief of Logistics for the Armed Forces during the war, said the survival argument was \"a bluff which was born and developed only after the war ... When we spoke of the war in the General Staff, we talked of the political ramifications if we didn't go to war — what would happen to Israel in the next 25 years. Never of survival today.\" Peled also stated that \"To pretend that the Egyptian forces massed on our frontiers were in a position to threaten the existence of Israel constitutes an insult not only to the intelligence of anyone capable of analyzing this sort of situation, but above all an insult to Zahal (Israeli military).\"\n\nIn a 30 March 1968 Ma’ariv interview Defense Minister Moshe Dayan explained: \"What do you mean, [the war was] unavoidable? It was, of course, possible to avoid the war if the Straits [of Tiran] had stayed closed to Israeli shipping.\n\nMenachem Begin also stated that \"The Egyptian army concentrations in the Sinai approaches did not prove that Nasser was really about to attack us. We must be honest with ourselves. We decided to attack him.\"\n\nAccording to Martin van Creveld, the IDF pressed for war: \"...the concept of 'defensible borders' was not even part of the IDFs own vocabulary. Anyone who will look for it in the military literature of the time will do so in vain. Instead, Israel's commanders based their thought on the 1948 war and, especially, their 1956 triumph over the Egyptians in which, from then Chief of Staff Dayan down, they had gained their spurs. When the 1967 crisis broke they felt certain of their ability to win a 'decisive, quick and elegant' victory, as one of their number, General Haim Bar Lev, put it, and pressed the government to start the war as soon as possible\".\n\nThat the announcement of the blockade of the Strait of Tiran paved the way for war is disputed by Major General Indar Jit Rikhye, military adviser to the United Nations Secretary General, who called the accusation of a blockade \"questionable,\" pointing out that an Israeli-flagged ship had not passed through the straits in two years, and that \"The U.A.R. [Egyptian] navy had searched a couple of ships after the establishment of the blockade and thereafter relaxed its implementation.\"\n\nAccording to the U.S. assessment, Egypt had no intention of attacking Israel, and the Americans desperately tried to dissuade Israel from invading Egypt. The U.S. further views that Jordan and Syria only entered the war as a response to Israel's invasion of Egypt.\n\nThe USSR had come to similar conclusions: \"... it is clear that the Soviet assessment from mid-May 1967 that Israel was about to strike at Syria was correct and well founded, and was not merely based on the public threats issued by Eshkol, Rabin and Yariv.\".\n\nSome of Israel's political leaders, however, hoped for a diplomatic solution. The U.S. President at the time, Lyndon Johnson, said that action by Egypt was the leading cause of the war:\n\nIf a single act of folly was more responsible for this explosion than any other, it was the arbitrary and dangerous announced decision that the Straits of Tiran would be closed. The right of innocent, maritime passage must be preserved for all nations.\n\nAccording to Szabo, many commentators consider the war as the classic case of anticipatory attack in self-defense. According to Ferris, Nasser's decisions to ask for the removal of UNEF from Sinai and to block the Gulf of Aqaba to Israeli shipping, are commonly accepted as the point where war became inevitable.\n\nAccording to Shlaim & Louis, in the end of May 1967, Nasser claimed in a public speech to have been aware of the Straits of Tiran closure implications: \"Taking over Sharm El Sheikh meant confrontation with Israel. It also means that we ready to enter a general war with Israel. It was not a separate operation\".\n\nGeneral Abdal Muhsin Murtaji, the commander of the Sinai front in 1967, wrote that the failed union with Syria and the debacle in Yemen forced Nasser to find an outlet for his failures, which he found through the 1967 war.\n\nYitzhak Rabin, who served as the Chief of the General Staff for Israel during the war stated: \"I do not believe that Nasser wanted war. The two divisions he sent into Sinai on May 14 would not have been enough to unleash an offensive against Israel. He knew it and we knew it.\"\n\nIsraeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban wrote in his autobiography that he found \"Nasser's assurance that he did not plan an armed attack\" convincing, adding that \"Nasser did not want war; he wanted victory without war\".\n\nSome analysts suggest that Nasser took actions aimed at reaping political gains, which he knew carried a high risk of precipitating military hostilities. On this view, Nasser's willingness to take such risks was based on his fundamental underestimation of Israel's capacity for independent and effective military action.\n\nOn June 1, Israel formed a National Unity Government, and on June 4 the decision was made to go to war. The next morning, Israel launched Operation Focus, a large-scale surprise air strike that was the opening of the Six-Day War.\n\nControversy remains as to whether Israel's attack was a preemptive strike or an unjustified attack. Many commentators consider the war as the classic case of anticipatory attack in self-defense.\n\nHistorian Michael Oren writes that Rusk was \"mad as hell\" and that Johnson later wrote \"I have never concealed my regret that Israel decided to move when it did\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53240512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53240512", "title": "Piotr Kravchenko", "text": "Piotr Kravchenko\n\nPiotr Klimovich Kravchenko (, born 13 August 1950) is a Belarusian diplomat, political scientist, historian and politician. He was the last foreign minister of the Byelorussian SSR for ten days from 17 to 27 July 1990. He became the first Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1990 to 1994. He served as a deputy leader of Supreme Soviet of Belarus from 15 May 1990 to 27 November 1996.\n\nPiotr Kravchenko was born on 13 August 1950 in Smalyavichy in Byelorussian SSR. He graduated at Belarusian State University from 1972 to 1976. In 1985, he was appointed by general secretary of Communist Party of the Soviet Union Mikhail Gorbachev. He was the Belarus Ambassador to Japan from 1999 to 2002\n\nKravchenko is married to his wife and has two children. He is also a practising Roman Catholic.\n\n"}
{"id": "31988521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31988521", "title": "Richard Beeman", "text": "Richard Beeman\n\nRichard Roy Beeman (May 6, 1942 – September 6, 2016) was an American historian and biographer specializing in the American Revolution. Born in Seattle, he published multiple books, and was the John Walsh Centennial Professor of History at the University of Pennsylvania. Beeman was the 2003-4 Harold Vyvyan Harmsworth Professor of American History. He also served as the director of the Philadelphia Center for Early American Studies, on the Board of Trustees of the National Constitution Center, and as the editor of \"American Quarterly\". He died in his home outside of Philadelphia from complications due to ALS.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40202167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40202167", "title": "Ruby jubilee", "text": "Ruby jubilee\n\nA ruby jubilee is a celebration held to mark a 40th anniversary.\n\n"}
{"id": "25199084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25199084", "title": "Simen Skappel", "text": "Simen Skappel\n\nSimen Skappel (7 March 1866 – 15 July 1945) was a Norwegian historian and statistician.\n\nHe specialized in agricultural history and agricultural statistics, and worked for Statistics Norway for 34 years, leading the Department of agricultural statistics for parts of that period. He was hired in Statistics Norway in 1902, was promoted to secretary in 1911 and department head in 1928. His most prominent publication was \"Om husmannsvesenet i Norge\", published in 1922. A \"husmann\" in Norway was a type of crofter. In the book, Skappel distinguished between crofters who received some land in exchange for work, often on short-term contracts, and crofters who received land in exchange for rent, often on lifetime contracts. Skappel's theory has been discussed as late as around 2000, but has been found (by historian Ståle Dyrvik) models to lack important complexity. Other prominent works by Skappel include \"Hedemarkens amt 1814–1914\" and \"Ringsaker Sparebank 1847–1927\", but he mostly published in journals. He died in the summer of 1945.\n"}
{"id": "24387678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24387678", "title": "Sobědruhy", "text": "Sobědruhy\n\nSobědruhy, fully Sobědruhy u Teplic () is, now a district of Teplice, Czech Republic.\n\nTraditionally, Sobědruhy was a town in Bohemia, whose Jewish community is probably one of the oldest in the province. The Jewish community of Sobědruhy includes parts of the Teplitz (Teplice), Dux (Duchcov), and Karbitz (Chabařovice) districts. The synagogue has a tower, with a clock, and two lamps respectively bearing the dates 1553 and 1654. For a time the Jewish cemetery at Sobědruhy was used as a burial-place by the Jewish community of Dresden. Many gravestones bear the inscription \"Mi-Geresh Prag\", marking the graves of Jews who were driven from Prague, some of whom died as martyrs. Until 1848 the Jews of Sobědruhy were confined to the ghetto - the \"Judengasse\", as it is still called. For some time the Jewish community formed a part of the Leitmeritz district rabbinate, but in 1883 it gained independence and elected as its rabbi Ḥayyim (Heinrich) Galandauer (author of \"Der Socialismus im Bibel und Talmud\").\n\nSobědruhy has a Jewish population of 150 in 1900s.\n\n"}
{"id": "12986264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12986264", "title": "Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies", "text": "Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies\n\nThe Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies (The Roman Society) was founded in 1910 as the sister society to the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies.\n\nThe Society is the leading organisation in the United Kingdom for those interested in the study of Rome and the Roman Empire. Its scope covers Roman history, archaeology, literature and art.\n\nThe society produces two annual publications, the \"Journal of Roman Studies\", which contains articles and book reviews dealing with the Roman world in general, and \"Britannia\", which has articles and reviews specifically on Roman Britain.\n\nA library is maintained jointly with the Hellenic Society and in conjunction with the University of London's Institute of Classical Studies with of over 110,000 volumes and 600 current periodicals.\n\nGrants of the society include: grants for summer schools, archaeology grants (through excavation grants and a biennial conference) and grants for schools for teaching about the Roman world.\n\nThere is a programme of public lectures in London, and others outside London arranged with local branches of the Classical Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4841896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4841896", "title": "Stephen Bourke", "text": "Stephen Bourke\n\nStephen Bourke is an Australian archaeologist of the ancient Near East. He obtained his Ph.D. from University College London in 1992, and is an Honorary Fellow of the Council for British Research in the Levant.\n\nBourke has led the ongoing University of Sydney excavations at Pella in Jordan since 1992. Previously, Bourke also directed the university's excavations at Teleilat el Ghassul.\n\n"}
{"id": "58533887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58533887", "title": "Susanna Braund", "text": "Susanna Braund\n\nSusanna Braund, occasionally cited as Susanna Morton Braund, is a professor of Latin poetry and its reception at the University of British Columbia.\n\nBraund received her BA in Classics from the University of Cambridge in 1978, followed by a PhD in 1984 from the same institution. \n\nBraund was elected as a Scholar in Residence at the Collège de France for June 2014. \n\nIn 2016, Braund was awarded a Killam Research Fellowship for the years 2016-2018, for a project on translations of Virgil's Aeneid, Georgics and Eclogues. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10011810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011810", "title": "Søren Wichmann", "text": "Søren Wichmann\n\nSøren Wichmann (born 1964 in Copenhagen) is a Danish linguist specializing in historical linguistics, linguistic typology, Mesoamerican languages, and epigraphy. Since June 2016, he has been employed as a University Lecturer at Leiden University Centre for Linguistics, Leiden University, after having worked at different institutions in Denmark, Mexico, Germany and Russia, including, during 2003-2015, the Department of Linguistics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology.\n\nWichmann's PhD dissertation, from University of Copenhagen, treated the Azoyú variety of Tlapanec spoken in Guerrero, Mexico. He has written extensively about Mayan, Oto-Manguean and Mixe–Zoquean languages. He has done fieldwork on Mixe, Texistepec Popoluca and Tlapanec. Regarding Mixe–Zoquean, he has done comparative work resulting in the currently most accepted classification of the Mixe–Zoquean language family as well as a reconstruction of its vocabulary and grammar (Wichmann 1995). He also specializes in the study of Maya hieroglyphs — particularly the linguistic aspects of the deciphering of the Mayan script. Since 2007, Wichmann's work has increasingly focused on the development of quantitative methods in historical linguistics, including the development of the Automated Similarity Judgment Program.\n\nSince its inception in 2011, Wichmann has been General Editor of Language Dynamics and Change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11988705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988705", "title": "The Might That Was Assyria", "text": "The Might That Was Assyria\n\nThe Might That Was Assyria (1984; ) is written by Assyriologist H. W. F. Saggs. It illustrates the Neo-Assyrian Empire. Saggs spent half of his life studying the ancient Assyrians, before he wrote this book.\n\n"}
{"id": "28999214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28999214", "title": "The New Science", "text": "The New Science\n\nThe New Science (original Italian title Scienza Nuova ) is the major work of Italian philosopher Giambattista Vico, published in 1725. It has been highly influential in the philosophy of history, sociology, anthropology, and for historicists like Isaiah Berlin and Hayden White. The central concepts were highly original, and prefigured the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nThe original full title is \"Principi di Scienza Nuova d'intorno alla Comune Natura delle Nazioni\", which may be literally translated as \"Principles/Origins of New/Renewed Science About/Surrounding the Common Nature of Nations\".\n\nIn 1720, Vico began work on the \"Scienza Nuova\" as part of a treatise on Universal rights. Although a full volume was originally to be sponsored by Cardinal Corsini (the future Pope Clement XII), Vico was forced to finance the publication himself after the Cardinal pleaded financial difficulty and withdrew his patronage. The first edition of the \"New Science\" (\"Scienza Nuova\", rather than \"Nuova Scienza\", for which Galileo had been known) appeared in 1725, and a second, reworked version was published in 1730; neither was well received during Vico’s lifetime.\n\nVico himself worked on two revisited editions, that were published under new titles, the first in 1730 and the second posthumously in 1744. It was the first work by Vico to be written in Italian, while his previous ones were written in Latin.\n\nIn its first section, titled \"Idea of the Work\" (\"Idea dell'Opera\"), the \"Scienza Nuova\" (1730 and 1744) explicitly presents itself as a \"Science of reasoning\" (\"Scienza di ragionare\"). Indeed, the work (cf. most notably the section \"Of the Elements\") includes a dialectic between axioms (authoritative maxims or \"degnità\") and \"reasonings\" (\"ragionamenti\") linking and clarifying the axioms.\n\nVico specifies that his \"Scienza\" reasons primarily about the function of religion in the human world (\"Idea of the Work\"), and in this respect the work \"comes to be a civil theology reasoned from divine providence\" (\"vien ad essere una teologia civile ragionata della provvidenza divina\"). Reconsidering divine things (viz. \"the conduct of divine providence\") within a human or political context, Vico unearths the \"poetic theologians\" (\"poeti teologi\") of pagan antiquity, exposing the poetic character of theology independently of Christianity's sacred history and thus of Biblical authority (see e.g. \"Scienza Nuova\" [1744], \"Of the Elements,\" CXIV). Vico's unearthing of poetic theology (anticipated already in his \"De Antiquissima Italorum Sapientia\" (1710), \"On the most ancient wisdom of the Italians\") confirms the philosopher's ties to the Italian Renaissance and its appeals to \"theologia poetica\". With the early Renaissance, Vico shares the call for recovering a \"pagan\" or \"vulgar\" horizon for philosophy's providential agency, or for recognizing the providence of our human \"metaphysical\" minds/\"menti\" in the world of our \"political\" wills/\"animi\" (\"Idea of the Work,\" par. 2). \"Poetic theology\" would serve as stage for an \"ascent\" (ibid.) to recognize the inherence or latency of rational agency in our actions, even when these are brutal (see further \"Of the Method,\" par. 2). This way, the particular providence of the Bible's \"true God\" (\"Of the Elements,\" CXIV) would not be required for the thriving of properly human life. All that would be needed was (A) false religions/Gods and (B) the covert work of the \"conatus\" (rational principle of constitution of experience rooted in its proper infinite form) examined at length in the \"De Antiquissima Italorum Sapientia\" and evoked again in par. 2 of the \"Of the Method\" section of the \"Scienza Nuova\" (1730 and 1744).\n\nVico is often seen as espousing a cyclical philosophy of history where human history is created by man, although Vico never speaks of \"history without attributes\" (Paolo Cristofolini, \"Vice Pagano e Barbaro\"), but of a \"world of nations\". Which is more, in the 1744 \"Scienza Nuova\" (esp. the \"Conclusion of the Work\") Vico stresses that \"the world of nations\" is made by men merely with respect to their sense of certainty (\"certamente\"), though not fundamentally, insofar as the world is guided by the human mind \"metaphysically\" independent of its makings (compare opening paragraph of the \"Scienza Nuova\"). Furthermore, although Vico is often attributed the expression \"corsi e ricorsi\" (cycles and counter cycles) of \"history\", he never speaks in the plural of \"the cycle\" or of \"the counter-cycle\" (\"ricorso\") of \"human things\", suggesting that political life and order, or human creations, are oriented \"backward,\" as it were, or called back to their constitutive \"metaphysical\" principle. \n\nOn present day \"constructivist\" readings, Vico is supposed to have promoted a vision of man and society as moving in parallel from barbarism to civilization.As societies become more developed socially, human nature also develops, and both manifest their development in changes in language, myth, folklore, economy, etc.; in short, social change produces cultural change.Vico would therefore be using an original organic idea that culture is a system of socially produced and structured elements. Hence, knowledge of any society would come from the social structure of that society, explicable, therefore, only in terms of its own language. As such, one may find a dialectical relationship between language, knowledge and social structure.\n\nRelying on a complex etymology, Vico argues in the \"Scienza Nuova\" that civilization develops in a recurring cycle (\"ricorso\") of three ages: the divine, the heroic, and the human. Each age exhibits distinct political and social features and can be characterized by master tropes or figures of language. The \"giganti\" of the divine age rely on metaphor to compare, and thus comprehend, human and natural phenomena. In the heroic age, metonymy and synecdoche support the development of feudal or monarchic institutions embodied by idealized figures. The final age is characterized by popular democracy and reflection via irony; in this epoch, the rise of rationality leads to \"barbarie della reflessione\" or barbarism of reflection, and civilization descends once more into the poetic era. Taken together, the recurring cycle of three agescommon to every nationconstitutes for Vico a \"storia ideale eterna\" or ideal eternal history. Therefore, it can be said that all history is the history of the rise and fall of civilizations, for which Vico provides evidence (up until, and including the Graeco-Roman historians).\n\nVico’s humanism (his returning to a pre-modern form of reasoning), his interest in classical rhetoric and philology, and his response to Descartes contribute to the philosophical foundations for the second \"Scienza Nuova\". Through an elaborate Latin etymology, Vico establishes not only the distinguishing features of first humans, but also how early civilization developed out of a \"sensus communis\" or common (not collective) sense. Beginning with the first form of authority intuited by the \"giganti\" or early humans and transposed in their first \"mute\" or \"sign\" language, Vico concludes that “first, or vulgar, wisdom was poetic in nature.” This observation is not an aesthetic one, but rather points to the capacity inherent in all men to imagine meaning via comparison and to reach a communal \"conscience\" or \"prejudice\" about their surroundings. The metaphors that define the poetic age gradually yield to the first civic discourse, finally leading to a time characterized by \"full-fledged reason\" (\"ragione tutta spiegata\"), in which reason and right are exposed to the point that they vanish into their own superficial appearance. At this point, speech returns to its primitive condition, and with it men. Hence the \"recurring\" (\"ricorso\") of life to \"barbarism\" (\"barbarie\"). It is by way of warning his age and those stemming from it of the danger of seeking truth in clear and distinct ideas blinding us to the real depths of life, that Vico calls our attention back to a classical art of moderating the course of human things, lest the liberty enjoyed in the \"Republic\" be supplanted by the anarchic tyranny of the senses.\n\nCrucial to Vico's work remains a subtle criticism of all attempts to impose universality upon particularity, as if \"ex nihilo\". Instead, Vico attempts to always let \"the true\" emerge from \"the certain\" through innumerable stories and anecdotes drawn mostly from the history of Greece and Rome and from the Bible. Here, reason does not attempt to overcome the poetic dimension of life and speech, but to moderate its impulses so as to safeguard civil life.\n\nWhile the transfer from divine to heroic to human ages is, for Vico, marked by shifts in the tropological nature of language, the inventional aspect of the poetic principle remains constant. When referring to “poets”, Vico intends to evoke the original Greek sense of “creators”. In the \"Scienza Nuova\", then, the \"verum factum\" principle first put forth in \"De Italorum Sapientia\" remains central. As such, the notion of topics as the \"loci\" or places of invention (put forth by Aristotle and developed throughout classical rhetoric) serves as the foundation for \"the true\", and thus, as the underlying principle of \"sensus communis\" and civic discourse. The development of laws that shape the social and political character of each age is informed as much by master tropes as by those topics deemed acceptable in each era. Thus, for the rudimentary civilization of the divine age, sensory topics are employed to develop laws applicable on an individual basis. These laws expand as metonymy and synecdoche enable notions of sovereign rule in the heroic age; accordingly, acceptable topics expand to include notions of class and division. In the final, human age, the reflection that enables popular democracy requires appeals to any and all topics to achieve a common, rational law that is universally applicable. The development of civilization in Vico’s \"storia ideale eterna\", then, is rooted in the first canon of rhetoric, as invention via \"loci\" shapes both the creation of and discourse about civil life.\n\nVico’s major work was poorly received during his own life but has since inspired a cadre of famous thinkers and artists, including Karl Marx and Montesquieu. Later his work was received more favourably as in the case of Lord Monboddo to whom he was compared in a modern treatise.\n\nIsaiah Berlin has devoted attention to Vico as a critic of the Enlightenment and a significant humanist and culture theorist.\n\n\"Scienza Nuova\" was included by Martin Seymour-Smith in his book \"The 100 Most Influential Books Ever Written\".\n\nThe historical cycle provides the structure for James Joyce's book, \"Finnegans Wake\". The intertextual relationship between \"Scienza Nuova\" and \"Finnegans Wake\" was brought to light by Samuel Beckett in his essay \"Dante... Bruno. Vico.. Joyce” published in \"Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress\" (1929), where Beckett argued that Vico's conception of language also had significant influence in Joyce's work. Vico's notion of the \"lingua mentale commune\" (mental dictionary) in relation to \"universale fantastico\" reverberates in Joyce's novel, which ends in the middle of a sentence, reasserting Vico's principle of cyclical history.\n\nLanguage, knowledge and society are in a dialectical relationship, which means that any study or comparison of societies must consider the specific contexts of the societies. This has clearly influenced anthropology and sociology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51313368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51313368", "title": "There's No Place Like Time: A Retrospective", "text": "There's No Place Like Time: A Retrospective\n\nThere's No Place Like Time: A Retrospective is a limited-edition postmodern novel by Lance Olsen, published by &Now Books in 2016.\n\n\"There's No Place Like Time: A Retrospective\" masquerades as a catalogue for a real retrospective of experimental films by a non-existent videographer. Author Lance Olsen and his wife, videographer Andi Olsen, stage the fake retrospective in galleries in Europe and the U.S. The result is a three-dimensional text: a real place dedicated to an unreal career of an artist named Alana Olsen. From her videos and the texts surrounding them (including this catalogue/novel), the viewer/reader is invited to treat her like a fictional character, inferring her character, development, obsessions, and relationship with her daughter, Aila, who allegedly curates the exhibit, but is in fact another fictive character. The catalogue/novel is made up of critical and biographical essays, stills, and reminiscences about Alana's small body of work (fewer than 20 videos over five decades, some of which have gone missing) produced in relative anonymity, yet apparently a large influence on artists as varied as Lars von Trier, Douglas Gordon, and Martin Arnold.\n\nThematically, \"There's No Place Like Time,\" then, forms part of a larger conceptual art installation that investigates the difficulties inherent in identity and knowledge about the past.\n\n"}
{"id": "26056061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26056061", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 543", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 543\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 543, adopted unanimously on 29 November 1983, is a legislation that considered the report filed by the Secretary-General on the subject of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force. The Council noted its efforts to establish a durable and just peace in the Middle East, but also expressed its concern over the prevailing state of military tension evident in the area.\n\nThe resolution decided to call upon the parties concerned to immediately implement Resolution 338 (1973), it renewed the mandate of the Observer Force for another six months until 31 May 1984 and requested that the Secretary-General submit a report on the situation at the end of that period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3646814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3646814", "title": "United Slovenia", "text": "United Slovenia\n\nUnited Slovenia ( or ) is the name of an unrealized political programme of the Slovene national movement, formulated during the Spring of Nations in 1848. The programme demanded (a) unification of all the Slovene-inhabited areas into one single kingdom under the rule of the Austrian Empire, (b) equal rights of the Slovene language in public, and (c) strongly opposed the planned integration of the Habsburg Monarchy with the German Confederation. The programme failed to meet its main objectives, but it remained the common political program of all currents within the Slovene national movement until World War I.\n\nFollowing the Vienna Rebellion that forced Ferdinand I to abolish feudalism and adopt a constitution, many nations of the Austrian Empire saw a chance for strengthening their ideas. After the Congress of Vienna in 1815, for the first time in centuries, all Slovenes were under the rule of one emperor. They were, however, divided between different political subdivisions, namely the provinces of Carniola, Styria, Carinthia, Gorizia and Gradisca, Istria, Trieste, Lombardy and Venetia (the Venetian Slovenia) and the Kingdom of Hungary (Prekmurje). In such a fragmentation, a self-government on national basis was impossible.\n\nThe programme of United Slovenia was first formulated on 17 March 1848 by the Carinthian Slovene priest and political activist Matija Majar, and published on 29 March in the national conservative newspaper \"Kmetijske in rokodelske novice\", edited by Janez Bleiweis. The idea advanced by Majar was elaborated and articulated by the society of Slovenes from Vienna, led at this time by the notable linguist Fran Miklošič, which published their manifesto on 29 April in the Slovene newspaper \"Novice\" from Klagenfurt. In the same period, the geographer Peter Kozler issued a map of all the Slovene Lands with ethnic-linguistic lines.\n\nJanez Bleiweis presented these demands to the Austrian Emperor's younger brother Archduke John, who had been living amongst the Slovenes in Maribor for 15 years. The three key points of the programme (the creation of Slovenia as a distinct entity, recognition of the Slovene language and opposition to joining the German Confederation) were signed as a petition. 51 signed sheets still exist, showing that the programme was well-supported by the masses. The signed petition was presented to the Austrian parliament; however, due to the uprising in Hungary, the Parliament was dissolved before it could even discuss the Slovene issue.\n\nThe political aspirations of the Slovenes were suppressed by Baron Alexander von Bach's absolutism in 1851, and Slovene national awakening was moved back to an almost purely the cultural field. The programme of United Slovenia, however, remained the common political programme of all currents within the Slovene national movement until World War I. and was gaining power in the period of tabori between 1868–1871. After the First World War and dissolution of Austria-Hungary, it was partially replaced by the idea of integration with other South Slavs in the common country of Yugoslavia.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in October 1918, and the subsequent creation of first the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and then the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, a significant number of Slovenes, mostly in the Julian March and Carinthia, remained outside the country. Therefore, the programme of United Slovenia remained very much present in the political and intellectual debates of the interwar period. In April 1941, it was incorporated in the manifesto of the Liberation Front of the Slovenian People. After the annexation of the Slovenian Littoral to Yugoslavia in 1947 and the partition of the Free Territory of Trieste between Italy and Yugoslavia in 1954, the main demand of the United Slovenia programme – the unification of the majority of Slovene Lands into a unified and autonomous political-administrative entity – saw its fulfillment.\n\nPošta Slovenije issued a stamp on the occasion of 150th anniversary of the United Slovenia movement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "381390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381390", "title": "Walter H. Breen", "text": "Walter H. Breen\n\nWalter H. Breen Jr. (September 5, 1928 – April 27, 1993) was an American numismatist, writer and convicted child sex offender, and the husband of author Marion Zimmer Bradley. He is known among coin collectors for writing \"Walter Breen's Complete Encyclopedia of U.S. and Colonial Coins\". \"Breen numbers\", from his encyclopedia, are widely used to attribute varieties of coins. He is also known for activity in the science fiction fan community and for his writings in defense of pederasty.\n\nBreen was born in San Antonio, Texas, the son of Walter Henry Breen Sr. and Mary Helena (Nellie) Brown Mehl. He spent the first several years of his life in Texas with his parents. \n\nAt the time they met, both of Walter's parents were married to other people and living next door to each other in Parkersburg, West Virginia. Walter's father changed his own name from Walter H. Green to Breen after abandoning his wife and children to run away with Walter's mother. Later in life, Breen sometimes denied they were his birth parents and claimed to have been adopted by them as a foundling child. In reminiscences he spoke of being raised in a variety of \"institutional and foster settings.\" \n\nThe 1940 census shows young Breen living in a Catholic orphanage in West Virginia, with his (by then) divorced mother living as a housekeeper in a Catholic church rectory less than two miles away. Walter's father was by that time living with another woman in Chicago; for a while after their separation his mother resumed her maiden name and young Walter went by the name William Brown.\n\nBreen strove to distinguish himself academically from a young age, attending a Catholic high school in Wheeling, West Virginia, and continued excelling academically throughout his postsecondary education. After being declared unfit for service by the Army Air Force in April 1946, Breen was accepted that October with a recorded IQ of 144; following a severe beating, he was honorably discharged that December. \n\nDuring his recovery, he read voluminously about rare coins and initiated correspondence with various members of the numismatics community, renewing his involvement in a hobby in which he had been actively engaged a few years earlier. Alternatively, Breen claimed that a severe head injury suffered in a World War II plane crash led to the development of his photographic memory.\n\nHe received his B.A. in mathematics from Johns Hopkins University in 1952. He later claimed he finished four years of coursework in approximately ten months, concealing the fact that as a high-IQ teenage prodigy he had already completed two years at Georgetown University during World War II, followed by a brief stint at a small Catholic college in Texas. After graduating Phi Beta Kappa, he took a position as an auction cataloger for the New Netherland Coin Company while concurrently enrolled in pre-med courses at Columbia University, where he became a protege of the controversial psychologist and numismatist William Herbert Sheldon. \n\nDuring this period, physicist Jack Sarfatti (who later sponsored guest workshops by Breen at meetings of the Physics/Consciousness Research Group at the Esalen Institute in 1976) alleges that Breen coordinated Sandia National Laboratories-funded parapsychological research studies of New York City gifted children (so-called \"superkids,\" including Sarfatti and Robert Bashlow) in Sheldon's Constitutional Laboratory at Columbia Medical School from 1953-56. \n\nSarfatti's tales are not corroborated by any reliable source, but they do mirror a longtime interest Breen had in studying high-IQ youth, which included taking out advertisements in the early 1960s for a projected private school for gifted children which Breen hoped to launch in New York City, a project which came to nothing in the end. William Sheldon worked closely with Breen on a number of coin-related projects in the 1950s, including the book \"Penny Whimsy\", and although Sheldon encouraged Breen to attend medical school, he eventually distanced himself from the scientist, allegedly, per Breen in an interview, in part due to Sheldon's professed anti-Semitism.\n\nBreen eventually enrolled in the sociology graduate program at the University of California, Berkeley, where he claimed to have researched \"the Beat Generation groups on both coasts but also some of the very earliest hippies, finding out incidentally that some ideas that the bunch of us had developed in science fiction fandom had gotten into the hippie subculture and were being paraded around as their own inventions.\" He received his M.A. in the sociology of music from the institution in 1966.\n\nIn 1951, the journal \"Numismatist\" published his earliest numismatics writings. Two years later he completed his first book on American coins, \"Proof Coins Struck by the United States Mint, 1817–1901\".\n\nBreen also spent considerable time compiling information on the history of homosexuality and pederasty. His research, unprecedented in its extensive treatment of the history but not adhering to the standards of scholarly research, formed the basis for his 1964 book \"Greek Love\", which he published under the pseudonym \"J.Z. Eglinton\". Breen collaborated with Warren Johansson in researching the book. He dedicated the book to his wife, Marion Zimmer Bradley, who edited it. He also published a journal, \"The International Journal of Greek Love\", under the same pseudonym.\nAs \"Eglinton\" Breen made an appearance and spoke at the founding convention of NAMBLA in 1978.\n\nHis other interests included dirty limericks and fortune cookies. He self-published monographs on both subjects.\n\nBreen was initially convicted of child molestation or lewd behavior in Atlantic City in 1954, resulting in a probationary sentence. During science fiction fandom's \"Breendoggle\" of 1963–1964, Breen was banned from attending Pacificon II and briefly blackballed from the subculture's main amateur press association after allegations of further sex crimes surfaced. Nevertheless, prominent fans of the era such as John Boardman, perhaps unaware of Breen's prior conviction, dismissed the allegations as hearsay and \"character assassination,\" and the scandal blew over. Shortly thereafter, Breen married Bradley, who was cognizant of his behavior but chose not to report him. A further molestation conviction may have occurred in 1964.\n\nBreen was again arrested on child molestation charges in 1990. He accepted a plea bargain, which resulted in three years' probation.\n\nA year later, he was charged with eight felony counts of child molestation involving a 13-year-old boy. Though diagnosed with liver cancer in 1992, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison. He died in prison in Chino, California on April 27, 1993.\n\nIn 2014, Breen's daughter Moira Greyland revealed that she was one of the people who reported her father for child molestation.\n\nIn addition to his employment with First Coinvestors, Inc., where he was an officer for many years, Breen was an active member of the science fiction fan community for much of his life. He wrote for fanzines, and took over editorship of the fanzine \"Fanac\" from Terry Carr and Ron Ellik.\n\nHe married science fiction writer Marion Zimmer Bradley on June 3, 1964. They had two children and separated in 1979. After their separation, Breen moved to Oakland, California. Bradley remained his principal employer. They officially divorced on May 9, 1990.\n\nHe regularly wore his Phi Beta Kappa key as a zipper pull on the fly of his pants. He joined Mensa in 1958 or 1959, possibly the first American to do so.\n\nA user of marijuana and LSD, Breen believed in reincarnation, often recalling putative past lives in Atlantis, ancient Greece, and other mythological and historical epochs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58120194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58120194", "title": "Waltraud Ernst", "text": "Waltraud Ernst\n\nWaltraud Ernst (born 1955) is a German professor of the history of medicine at Oxford Brookes University. She is a specialist in the history of psychiatry.\n\nShe attended the University of Konstanz and obtained her PhD from the School of Oriental and African Studies in 1987 for a dissertation on psychiatry and mental illness in South Asia, c. 1780 – 1858.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1103969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1103969", "title": "Washday at the pa", "text": "Washday at the pa\n\nWashday at the pa is a 1964 illustrated children's book by Ans Westra that describes a day in the lives of a rural Māori family.\n\nThe book was originally published by the then School Publications Branch of the Department of Education, and printed by the Government Printer, but all 38,000 copies were withdrawn following a campaign by the Māori Women's Welfare League that it would have a 'detrimental effect' on Māori people - and that the living conditions portrayed within the book were atypical. The subsequent August 1964 order by the Minister of Education caused a controversy and all copies in schools were recalled and shredded, as were all unsold copies in the Government Bookshops chain.\n\nWestra had the book republished the next year by the Caxton Press of Christchurch.\n\nThe book was updated and republished in 2011 by Ans Westra and Mark Amery, to include other photos of the same family take in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "314445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314445", "title": "William Murray, 1st Earl of Mansfield", "text": "William Murray, 1st Earl of Mansfield\n\nWilliam Murray, 1st Earl of Mansfield, PC, SL (2 March 1705 – 20 March 1793) was a British barrister, politician and judge noted for his reform of English law. Born to Scottish nobility, he was educated in Perth, Scotland, before moving to London at the age of 13 to take up a place at Westminster School. He was accepted into Christ Church, Oxford, in May 1723, and graduated four years later. Returning to London from Oxford, he was called to the Bar by Lincoln's Inn on 23 November 1730, and quickly gained a reputation as an excellent barrister.\n\nHe became involved in politics in 1742, beginning with his election as a Member of Parliament for Boroughbridge, and appointment as Solicitor General. In the absence of a strong Attorney General, he became the main spokesman for the government in the House of Commons, and was noted for his \"great powers of eloquence\" and described as \"beyond comparison the best speaker\" in the House of Commons. With the promotion of Sir Dudley Ryder to Lord Chief Justice in 1754, he became Attorney General, and when Ryder unexpectedly died several months later, he took his place as Chief Justice.\n\nThe most powerful British jurist of the century, his decisions reflected the Age of Enlightenment and moved England on the path to abolishing slavery and the slave trade. He advanced commercial law in ways that helped establish the nation as the world leader in industry, finance and trade. He modernised both English law and the English courts system; he sped up the system for submitting motions and reformed the way judgments were given to reduce time and expense for the parties. For his work in \"Carter v Boehm\" and \"Pillans v Van Mierop\", he has been called the founder of English commercial law. He is perhaps best known for his judgment in Somersett's Case (1772), where he held that slavery had no basis in common law and had never been established by positive law (legislation) in England, and therefore was not binding law (although this did not end slave trafficking altogether).\n\nMurray was born on 2 March 1705, at Scone Palace in Perthshire, Scotland, the fourth son of the 5th Viscount of Stormont and his wife, Margaret, née Scott, and one of eleven children. Both his parents were strong supporters of the Jacobite cause, and his older brother James followed \"The Old Pretender\" into exile. The Jacobite sympathies of Murray's family were glossed over by contemporaries, who claimed that he had been educated at Lichfield Grammar School with many other members of the English judiciary. This was incorrect, as Murray was educated at Perth Grammar School, where he was taught Latin, English grammar, and essay writing skills. He later said that this gave him a great advantage at university, as those students educated in England had been taught Greek and Latin, but not how to write properly in English. While at Perth Grammar School, it became apparent that Murray was particularly intelligent, and in 1718, his father and older brother James decided to send him to Westminster School, as James knew the Dean, Francis Atterbury. The distance from Perth to London was around , and the journey took Murray 54 days. Murray flourished at Westminster and was made a King's Scholar on 21 May 1719.\n\nAfter an examination in May 1723, Murray was accepted into Christ Church, Oxford, having scored higher in the examination than any other King's Scholar that year. He was admitted as a commoner on 15 June 1723, and matriculated on 18 June; the records say that he came from Bath rather than Perth, because the person recording the names of the new students was unable to understand his Scottish accent. His older brother James was a barrister in Scotland, and his family decided that a career as a barrister was best for Murray. The Scottish Bar at the time was overcrowded, which made it difficult for a young barrister to build a reputation, yet qualifying for the English Bar was extremely expensive. Thanks to the patronage of Thomas Foley, 1st Baron Foley, who gave Murray £200 a year to live on, Murray could afford to study at the bar, and became a member of Lincoln's Inn on 23 April 1724.\n\nAfter George I died on 11 June 1727, Murray entered and won a competition to write a Latin poem titled \"The Death of the King\". His actions were seen as a show of support for the House of Hanover and the political \"status quo\", something odd considering the strong Jacobite sympathies of his family. He probably did this because, having no private income, he wished to secure patronage to help him advance politically. Another entrant was William Pitt, who was a constant rival to Murray until Pitt's death in 1778. There is very little information about Murray's time at Oxford; it is known that he studied ancient and modern history, became fluent in French and gained a good understanding of Roman Law. He also became fluent in Latin, translating Cicero's works into English and then back into Latin. He gained his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1727, and travelled to London to train as a barrister.\n\nMurray married Elizabeth Finch. They did not have children and took on care of their niece, Lady Elizabeth Murray (b. 1760), after her mother died. When Mansfield's nephew Captain Sir John Lindsay returned to Britain in 1765 following the Seven Years' War and his assignment in the West Indies, he brought his natural daughter \"Elizabeth\". Of half African descent, she was born into slavery in 1761, the daughter of Maria Bell, an enslaved woman. Lindsay asked Murray to take on her care and education, and Elizabeth was baptized Dido Elizabeth Belle in 1766 in London.\n\nMurray's first contact when he moved to London was William Hamilton, a Scottish-born barrister who was said to be the first Scot to practise at the English Bar, and one of the few people who was qualified to act as a barrister in both England and Scotland. Hamilton had been one of Murray's sponsors when he joined Lincoln's Inn in 1724, and when Murray came to London, Hamilton helped find him a set of chambers at No. 1 Old Square. At this time, there was no formal legal education, and the only requirement for a person to be called to the Bar was for him to have eaten five dinners a term at Lincoln's Inn, and to have read the first sentence of a paper prepared for him by the steward. Thus, most of Murray's practical training came from reading the papers in Hamilton's chambers and listening to Lord Raymond speak in court, along with tutoring by Thomas Denison on how to write special pleadings. Murray also studied various texts, including the French \"Ordinance de la Marine\" (a predecessor to the Napoleonic Commercial Code), the works of Bracton and Littleton and \"crabbed and uncouth compositions\" on municipal law.\n\nMurray was called to the Bar on 23 November 1730, taking a set of chambers at 5 King's Bench Walk. He was introduced to Alexander Pope around this time, and through his friendship met members of the aristocracy, some of whom later became his clients, including Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough. Pope also taught him oratory, which helped him enormously in court. His first two cases were in the English Court of Sessions in 1733, where he was led by Charles Talbot and opposed by Philip Yorke. The support of Talbot and Yorke allowed him to gain a respectable practice in the Court of Chancery.\n\nThe 1707 Acts of Union had merged the Kingdom of England and Kingdom of Scotland into one national entity, but they retained separate legal systems. However, the House of Lords became the highest court of appeal in both English and Scottish law, and as a result, from 1707 Scottish cases on appeal from the Court of Session were sent there. To deal with these cases, a barrister had to be familiar with both Scottish and English law, and Murray found his niche, acting in Scottish cases in the House of Lords as early as 1733. His work in \"Moncrieff v Moncrieff\" in 1734 established Murray as a brilliant young barrister praised for his performance by Lords Cowper and Parker. After \"Moncrieff\", Murray was involved in almost every case in the House of Lords, whether it had been appealed from a Scottish court or not.\n\nIn 1737, Murray acted as Counsel for the City of Edinburgh in the aftermath of the death of Captain John Porteous. In Edinburgh, it was traditional for criminals sentenced to death to be allowed to visit a church near the city jail the Sunday before the execution. Two criminals named Wilson and Robertson took this as an opportunity to escape, and although Wilson did not make it out of the church, Robertson escaped completely. Wilson had been a smuggler who supplied his fellow citizens with goods, and because of this and the unpopularity of the city guard, public opinion was firmly on his side. Porteous was the captain of the Edinburgh city guard, and angry with Wilson's attempt to escape and aware of the possibility of an attempt to free him. Porteous ordered a guard of 80 men to be placed around the gallows for Wilson's execution. When a man attempted to cut Wilson's body down after the execution, Porteous ordered his troops to fire on the crowd, and seven people were killed. Porteous was initially sentenced to death for murder, and when the execution was delayed, a mob of citizens rushed the city jail and lynched him.\n\nAs a result, a bill was proposed in the House of Commons that sought to punish the City of Edinburgh for the behaviour of its citizens by disenfranchising the city. Murray represented the City in both the House of Commons and the House of Lords, and eventually whittled down the bill so much that by the time it was voted on, it simply proposed to fine the city and disqualify the Provost. In exchange for his work, the citizens of Edinburgh gave him the Freedom of the City and a diamond, which is still in the possession of his family. Murray's reputation continued to grow; in 1738, he was involved in 11 of the 16 cases heard in the House of Lords, and in 1739 and 1740 he acted as legal counsel in 30 cases there.\n\nOn 20 September 1738, he married Lady Elizabeth Finch, the daughter of Daniel Finch, 2nd Earl of Nottingham, at Raby Castle in Durham. Her sister Mary was married to Thomas Watson-Wentworth, 1st Marquess of Rockingham. Murray's connection with the Marquess had a positive, significant influence on his future career. After a short holiday, Murray returned to his work as a barrister.\n\nMurray had repeatedly refused to become a Member of Parliament, saying he had no interest in politics. In 1742, however, the government of Sir Robert Walpole fell, and Murray's brother-in-law, the Earl of Nottingham, became First Lord of the Admiralty in the new Cabinet. With this added political influence, Murray hoped to be appointed to a government office, and when Sir John Strange resigned as Solicitor General, Murray was made a Member of Parliament for Boroughbridge on 15 December 1742 and immediately succeeded Strange as Solicitor General.\n\nAlthough the Solicitor General was the lowest legal appointment, a successful one could be appointed Attorney General, and by custom, the Attorney General was allowed to become Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench if a vacancy arose. Although many barristers were not good politicians, Murray became a successful Member of Parliament, and one noted for his oratorical skills and logical arguments.\n\nIn 1745, Murray defended the actions of the government in hiring 16,000 Hanoverian troops to help fight in the War of the Austrian Succession. His argument (that it was the prerogative of the King to decide how a war should be fought, and he should not be second-guessed by politicians with no experience of warfare) defeated the motion to cease employing the Hanoverian troops by 231 votes to 181. Murray became popular with both the government and George II as a result, and in the absence of a strong Attorney General, Murray spoke for the government in most matters. In 1747, he helped Lord Hardwicke write and pass an act to abolish the old hereditary positions in Scotland. In 1751 he drafted the government response to an attempt by the King of Prussia to frustrate neutral shipping, which Lord Stowell called \"the foundation of the modern law of neutrality\", and Montesquieu described it as a \"résponse sans réplique\" (response without a reply).\n\nThe death of Frederick, the heir to the British throne on 20 March 1751, caused constitutional chaos; George II wished to appoint his favourite son Prince William, Duke of Cumberland, as Regent (since the heir apparent, George III, was only a child), while the public favoured the child's mother Princess Augusta. In an attempt to reach a compromise the government introduced a bill to Parliament declaring that Augusta was to be a regent along with a council of others, and that George would become the heir when he reached maturity. Murray made a speech supporting the government's proposal, but despite this, Parliament was not convinced that a council was necessary.\n\nOn 6 March 1754, the Prime Minister Henry Pelham died, and this necessitated a Cabinet reshuffle. The Attorney General, Sir Dudley Ryder, became Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench, and Murray became Attorney General in his place. A few months later the Master of the Rolls died, and Murray was asked to replace him; he declined, however, as he \"did not want to leave His Majesty's service\". After Ryder died unexpectedly on 25 May 1756, however, Murray could not turn down the opportunity, and immediately applied to replace him as Lord Chief Justice.\n\nHe was accepted, and although his appointment delighted Murray, the government was very concerned at the loss of a good Attorney General. In an attempt to persuade him to stay, the new Prime Minister, the Duke of Newcastle offered him the Duchy of Lancaster, in addition to the position of Attorney General, an extra £6,000 a year, and a pension, and finally attempted to blackmail him by saying that if he accepted the office of Lord Chief Justice, the government would refuse to grant him a peerage. It was customary for all Lord Chief Justices to be given a peerage, and Murray responded by saying that in that situation he would refuse to become either Lord Chief Justice or Attorney General. Newcastle gave in, and promised to allow him to become Lord Chief Justice and to recommend him for a peerage.\n\nThis was seen as an excellent result by Murray, who had no interest in politics except as a stepping stone to become a member of the judiciary. Murray was not suited to politics, as he was far too calculating and independent of thought to accept any one party's doctrine. His Scottish and Jacobite roots also allowed for endless insinuation and controversy—in 1753 he was accused by the Bishop of Gloucester of \"having drunk the health of the Old Pretender on his knees\". Although the story was proven to be false, it embarrassed Murray, and was used to taunt him as late as 1770. His rivalry with William Pitt highlighted his unsuitability for politics—unlike such other politicians as Philip Yorke and Edward Thurlow, he did not have the temperament to resist \"the vehemence of Pitt's invective\". It was widely felt that he could have become Prime Minister after the death of Henry Pelham, but it would have \"set [his genius] in a false environment\", and he declined all opportunities to return to politics except as Lord Chief Justice.\n\nAnyone wishing to become a judge was required to be a Serjeant-at-law, which Murray was not; as such, he left Lincoln's Inn to join Serjeant's Inn. He qualified as a Serjeant-at-law on 8 November 1756, and was sworn in as Lord Chief Justice at the house of the Lord Chancellor that evening. Immediately afterwards he was created Baron Mansfield.\n\nOn 19 November, he was sworn in as a Privy Counsellor. He suspended his duties temporarily on 5 April 1757, when appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer, due to an old custom that the Lord Chief Justice took the position when it was empty. He only served until 8 April, and there is no evidence of his performing anything more than the standard day-to-day duties. He became a cabinet minister in 1757, still serving as Lord Chief Justice, and stayed until 1765.\n\nMansfield first sat in court on 11 November 1756, and at the time had \"a very low estimate of the Common Law of England which he was to administer\". The legal system had been put together in the period immediately after the Norman conquest of England, and was completely unsuited to the 18th century, when Britain was \"the greatest manufacturing and commercial country in the world\". Mansfield immediately began to reform the way the law and courts worked. One of his first acts as Lord Chief Justice was to change the system for submitting motions. Every day the court was in session, all barristers were invited to submit motions, in order of their seniority as barristers. Because they were allowed to submit as many motions as they wanted, by the time junior barristers were allowed to submit their motions, it was normally the end of the day. This meant that almost all the work went to the senior barristers, who were so overworked that they often did not have time to prepare properly before going to court. In addition it meant that work for junior barristers was scarce, hindering their careers. Mansfield changed the system so that barristers were allowed to submit only one motion a day, and if not all barristers had been heard by the end of the day, they could continue where they left off the next morning.\n\nAt the time it was also traditional for all judgments to be reserved. Although in a small number of cases this was useful, in the majority of cases it simply made coming to court more expensive and wasted time. As soon as Mansfield became Lord Chief Justice, he changed the rules so that, unless the court had doubts over the evidence presented to them, a judgment was to be made immediately. This had a far-reaching effect on the English courts. Judges from the Court of Appeal and High Court of Justice now give reserved judgments in only a minority of cases. His reforms led to the Court of King's Bench becoming one of the most active courts, at the expense of the Court of Common Pleas, which was described as the \"sleepy hollow\".\n\nIn the eighteenth century, English merchant law was still based on the \"Lex mercatoria\", a medieval series of customs and principles used to regulate trading. Other countries in Europe had reformed and modernised their law, resulting in English merchant law being about a century behind mercantile law of other European countries. A merchant was, by his very nature, international, and the inconsistencies between English law and the law of other nations made business difficult.\n\nMansfield made a great effort to bring English merchant law up to the same standards as that of other European nations, defining his position by saying that \"the daily negotiations and property of merchants ought not to depend on subtleties and niceties, but upon rules easily learned and easily retained because they are dictates of common sense drawn from the truth of the case\". In most European countries, the principle was that a merchant was bound by his promises, not just his signed legal documents, while English lawyers maintained that a merchant could only be legally bound by documents that he signed. The European principle was based on the assumption of good faith on the part of the merchants, or \"uberrima fides\", something completely lacking in English law. In , Mansfield got a chance to reform the law relating to the assumption of good faith. Carter was the Governor of Fort Marlborough (now Bengkulu), which was built by the British East India Company in Sumatra, Indonesia. He took out an insurance policy with Boehm against the fort's being taken by a foreign enemy. A witness called Captain Tryon testified that Carter knew the fort was built to resist attacks from natives but not European enemies, and the French were likely to attack. The French did attack, and Boehm refused to fulfil the insurance claim.\n\nMansfield decided in favour of Boehm, saying that Carter had failed his duty of \"uberrima fides\". In his judgment Mansfield said that:\nInsurance is a contract based upon speculation. The special facts, upon which the contingent chance is to be computed, lie most commonly in the knowledge of the insured only; the underwriter trusts to his representation and proceeds upon the confidence that he does not keep back any circumstance in his knowledge, to mislead the underwriter into a belief that the circumstance does not exist, and to induce him to estimate the risque as if it did not exist. Good faith forbids either party by concealing what he privately knows, to draw the other into a bargain from his ignorance of that fact, and his believing the contrary. This was an attempt by Mansfield to introduce the assumption of good faith into English law, and although it failed for the most part (as most areas of English commercial law no longer use \"uberrima fides\"), it is still used in insurance contracts. In insurance agreements, the insuree inevitably knows more about the risk involved than the insurer; without the requirement for pre-contractual \"good faith,\" the insuree would have no reason to tell the truth, and insurance companies would be loath to make contracts.\n\nIn the earlier case of , Mansfield had tried to challenge the doctrine of Consideration. In English law, \"Consideration\" is a vital part of the contract; without valid consideration, almost any contract is void. But, Mansfield argued in his judgment that it should only be treated as evidence of a contract, not as a vital element. Mansfield failed to make clear that he was referring only to consideration in commercial contracts, not general contracts, and as a result his judgment read that consideration was not required for \"any\" contract. His judgment has been much criticised by legal academics, and was effectively overruled by the House of Lords in \"Rann v Hughes\" [1778] 7 T. R. 350.\n\nMansfield also enforced a previous judgement of the Court of King's Bench made in 1645, in which they allowed a special jury of merchants to sit in cases involving commercial law. He built up a special corps of these jurymen, some of whom, such as Edward Vaux, became noted experts on commercial law. \"Lord Mansfield's jurymen\" acted as an effective liaison between the merchants and the courts. Mansfield was personally a supporter of free trade who was heavily influenced by Roman law and ancient Roman and Greek writers such as Cicero and Xenophon.\n\nIn 1783, Mansfield heard the case of , regarding the payment of an insurance claim for slaves killed when thrown overboard by the captain of a slave-ship — an event now known as the \"Zong\" massacre. Mansfield, in summing up the jury's verdict, said \"The Case of Slaves was the same as if Horses had been thrown over board\", and endeavoured to uphold the notion that slaves were property which could be destroyed in situations of \"absolute necessity\". But, new information was introduced in the case, and he ruled against the owners of the ship. In doing this, he achieved his aim of preventing maritime insurance law from becoming more complicated.\n\nMansfield made another notable judgment in , in relation to copyright law. Andrew Millar was a bookseller who in 1729 had purchased the publishing rights to James Thomson's poem \"The Seasons\". After the term of the exclusive rights granted under the Statute of Anne expired, Robert Taylor began publishing his own competing publication, which contained Thomson's poem. Mansfield, sitting with three other judges, concluded that despite the Statute of Anne there was a perpetual common law copyright, and therefore that no works can ever be considered public domain. This was a massive victory for booksellers and publishers, as it meant that they could effectively make it impossible for new companies to compete, as in the absence of new texts, there was nothing they could print. Mansfield's judgment was finally overruled by the House of Lords in \"Donaldson v Beckett\" in 1774.\n\nMansfield's judgment has been criticised as being unusually short-sighted because he failed to see that while his decision was correct for that particular case, the precedent it would set would create an unfair monopoly for the booksellers and publishers. This was one of only a small number of cases in which Mansfield was overruled; in his entire career only six of his judgments were overturned by a higher court. Mansfield's judgement here has been seen as part of a wider agenda; along with other legal figures such as Sir William Blackstone, he was personally in favour of a perpetual copyright.\n\nIn 1695 Parliament failed to renew the Licensing Acts, and as a result, the press were free to print material attacking the government. Although there were eight attempts to force a new Licensing Act through Parliament between 1697 and 1713, none of them succeeded. Despite the freedom of the press from censorship by the government, the judiciary held a different view; it regularly tried people for seditious libel if they printed material attacking the government. From 21 November 1768, letters written by a man under the pseudonym of Junius were published in the \"Public Advertiser\", a London newspaper run by Henry Sampson Woodfall. In them, Junius attacked many political leaders, including Lord Granby and Mansfield. As his letters were wildly popular, the circulation of the \"Public Advertiser\" doubled in just five months.\n\nOn 19 December 1769, Junius wrote a letter attacking the King, and incensed at this, the government ordered several people to be arrested and tried for seditious libel, including Woodfall for publishing the letters, John Almon for selling them, and John Miller for republishing them. Almon's case was heard at Westminster Hall by Mansfield and a jury on 2 June 1770. He was found guilty, although it is unclear in what fashion he was punished, if at all. Woodfall was tried on 13 June 1770, by Mansfield and a jury. While Mansfield believed that the language used was libellous, the jury disagreed, and held that he was \"guilty of printing and publishing only\", and innocent of seditious libel. Miller was tried on 13 July 1770, and after six hours of discussion, the jury found him innocent. As a result of these two trials, it became clear that no jury would convict a printer for printing these letters, leaving Junius free to continue publishing them.\n\nOn 14 November 1770, a letter by Junius directed at Mansfield was published by the \"Public Advertiser\" and the \"London Evening Post\", a newspaper run by John Miller. In it, Junius attacked Mansfield, first for being Scottish, then for being a lapsed Jacobite, and finally for attempting to suppress the freedom of the press. In a response to Junius' letter dated 16 November 1770, Mansfield made the following threat:\nAlthough the Attorney General, William de Grey, advised that the publishers should again be prosecuted, Mansfield disagreed, saying that if they failed to respond to Junius, he would become bored and stop writing. Mansfield was evidently correct, because other than a letter printed on 5 October 1771, Junius ceased to write at the beginning of 1772.\n\nMansfield is best known for his judgment in Somersett's Case on the legality of keeping slaves in England. The English had been involved in the slave trade since 1553, and by 1768, ships registered in Liverpool, Bristol and London carried more than half the slaves shipped in the world. James Somersett was a slave owned by Charles Stewart, an American customs officer who sailed to Britain for business, landing on 10 November 1769. A few days later Somersett attempted to escape. He was recaptured in November and imprisoned on the ship \"Ann and Mary\", owned by Captain John Knowles and bound for the British colony of Jamaica. Stewart intended to sell him there. However, three people claiming to be Somersett's godparents, John Marlow, Thomas Walkin and Elizabeth Cade, made an application before the Court of King's Bench for a writ of \"habeas corpus\", and Captain Knowles was ordered to produce Somersett before the Court of King's Bench, which would determine whether his imprisonment was legal.\n\nMansfield ordered a hearing for 22 January 1772. Following an adjournment, the case was not heard until 7 February 1772. In the meantime, the case had attracted a great deal of attention in the press, and members of the public were forthcoming with donations to fund lawyers for both sides of the argument. An activist layman, Granville Sharp, who continually sought test cases against the legal justifications for slavery, was Somersett's real backer. When the case was heard, no fewer than five advocates appeared for the slave, speaking at three separate hearings between February and May. These lawyers included William Davy SL, John Glynn SL, James Mansfield and Francis Hargrave, who was later to become a noted barrister based on his work in this case. Charles Stewart was represented by John Dunning and James Wallace.\n\nOn behalf of Somersett, it was argued that while colonial laws might permit slavery, neither the common law of England, nor any law made by Parliament recognised the existence of slavery, and slavery was therefore illegal. Moreover, English contract law did not allow for any person to enslave himself, nor could any contract be binding without the person's consent. The arguments thus focused on legal details rather than humanitarian principles. A law passed in 1765 said that all lands, forts and slaves owned by the Africa Company were a property of the Crown, which could be interpreted to mean that the Crown accepted slavery. When the two lawyers for Charles Stewart put their case, they argued that a contract for the sale of a slave was recognised in England, and therefore the existence of slaves must be legally valid.\n\nAfter the attorneys for both sides had given their arguments, Mansfield called a recess, saying that \"[the case] required ... [a] consultation ... among the twelve Judges\". Finally, on 22 June 1772 Mansfield gave his judgment, which ruled that a master could not carry his slave out of England by force, and concluded:\nThe state of slavery is of such a nature, that it is incapable of being introduced on any reasons, moral or political; but only positive law, which preserves its force long after the reasons, occasion, and time itself from whence it was created, is erased from memory: it's so odious, that nothing can be suffered to support it, but positive law. Whatever inconveniences, therefore, may follow from a decision, I cannot say this case is allowed or approved by the law of England; and therefore the black must be discharged.\nThis was not an end to slavery, as this only confirmed it was illegal to transport a slave out of England and Wales against his will. Slavery also persisted in the rest of the British Empire. As a result of the reporting of Mansfield's decision, public opinion and some newspapers gave the impression that slavery had been abolished by the ruling. Some historians believe that between 14,000 and 15,000 slaves were immediately freed in England, some of whom remained with their masters as paid or unpaid employees. However, it is questionable whether that many black people lived in England at the time, and most of them were already free men and women, or were runaway slaves who had evaded the authorities. The decision was vague enough to allow Africans to still be hunted and kidnapped in London, Liverpool and Bristol to be sold elsewhere. (Such an incident was recounted by Olaudah Equiano in 1774 in his autobiography, \"An Interesting Narrative\" (1789).)\n\nMansfield believed that his decision meant that slavery continued, because his \"mulatto\" great-niece Dido Elizabeth Belle remained a slave in his household, until his 1793 will allowed her to be considered a free woman. (She had been born into slavery as the illegitimate daughter of his nephew in the West Indies but lived with him and his wife for 30 years.) In addition, advertisements from the 1770s show that slaves continued to be bought and sold in England. Mansfield referred to slaves in his judgment in a later case. Although slavery was not completely abolished in the British Empire until 1834, Mansfield's decision is considered to have been a significant step in recognising the illegality of slavery.\n\nLord Mansfield's name is frequently mentioned in modern legal settings as the originator of \"Lord Mansfield's Rule\", in his own words: \"...the law of England is clear, that the declarations of a father or mother, cannot be admitted to bastardize the issue born after marriage.\" This quote comes from Mansfield's appellate decision in . The primary legal question in the case was not this preexisting principle, which applies only to children \"born after marriage\", but rather whether the child had been born before the marriage. The question was whether statements the child's parents allegedly made before their deaths could be introduced as evidence that the child had been born before their marriage and was thus illegitimate. Mansfield ruled to admit the testimony against the child's legitimacy and grant a new trial. The term \"Lord Mansfield's Rule\" is often used in a slightly different sense to denote the principle still applied in several jurisdictions that marriage creates a conclusive presumption of a husband's paternity of his wife's child.\n\nAfter the formation of the Fox-North Coalition, Mansfield agreed to act as Speaker of the House of Lords, taking up his post in February 1783. The main item of debate during the Coalition Ministry was the East India Bill, which provoked bitter arguments in both the House of Lords and House of Commons. In an attempt to speed up the process of passing the bill, Mansfield left his position as Speaker to debate directly on 15 December; when this failed to help he returned to the Woolsack the next day. The failure of the bill caused the government to be immediately dismissed, and Mansfield left his position on 23 December 1783.\n\nMansfield had been made Earl of Mansfield, in the County of Nottingham, on 31 October 1776. He attended the Lords as Lord Speaker, and the last record of him attending (other than his presence at the state opening of Parliament on 23 March 1784) was in December 1783.\n\nDespite failing health, Mansfield refused to officially leave his post as Lord Chief Justice because George III was opposed to the appointment of Mansfield's protégé Francis Buller to the position after Mansfield resigned. The government of the time instead suggested Lloyd Kenyon as a possible successor. Mansfield clung to office until 1788, (despite not sitting in court for two years) in the hope that the government would fall before he was forced to retire. This was not to be, and on 3 June, he wrote a letter of resignation effective the next day.\n\nMansfield spent the remainder of his life at Kenwood House. Most of his time was spent maintaining the grounds. In the summer, he was visited by groups of barristers who informed him of the goings-on at court. On 1 August 1792 he was made Earl of Mansfield, in the County of Middlesex. On 10 March 1793, he complained of feeling sleepy, and although he recovered the next day, by 12 March, he was again complaining of a need for sleep. He went to bed early and remained asleep until 18 March, when he finally died. His body was buried in the North Transept of Westminster Abbey. Mansfield left a large amount of money after his death, including land worth £26,000. He gave £2,000 to Francis Buller.\n\nEnglish law saw significant changes during Mansfield's career. As Lord Chief Justice, Mansfield had done much to reform the way the courts worked, making it easier for people to gain access to legal aid, and also making the process much less expensive. He was also noted for his insistence that equity should be applied by all courts, not just the Court of Chancery, a view that provoked much disagreement during his lifetime, but was eventually confirmed by Parliament in the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1873, which allowed all courts to take cases of equity. He also established the principle that rather than blindly following precedent, judges should seek to find loopholes in rules that were no longer applicable, something that later received the support of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., who said, \"It is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that so it was laid down in the time of Henry IV. It is more revolting still if the grounds upon which it was laid down have vanished long since, and the rule simply persists from blind imitation of the past.\" He made his judgements on the principle that \"as the usages of society alter, the law must adapt itself to the various situations of mankind\", leading John Baker to describe him as \"one of the boldest of judicial spirits\".\nHis most important contributions were to commercial, merchant and common law. Mansfield spent much time bringing the law of England on par with that of other countries, particularly in cases such as \"Pillans & Rose v Van Mierop & Hopkins\" [1765] 3 Burr 1663, and \"Carter v Boehm\" [1766] 3 Burr 1905. As a result of his work, he was described by a later judge as \"the founder of the commercial law of this country\".\n\nHe was, however, criticised for his resistance to the freedom of the press and his refusal to go against the King, as well as for blatant nepotism—highlighted by his attempts to have Francis Buller made Lord Chief Justice after his retirement. He was also criticised as a politician for his support of a government antagonistic to the colonies; in 1829 John Quincy Adams described him as \"more responsible for the Revolution than any other man\". Scholars such as John Chipman Gray have questioned his reputation as a universally successful judge, saying that \"the reputation of Lord Mansfield as a commercial lawyer should not blind us to the fact that he was not equally great in the law of real property\".\n\nOpinion over Mansfield's intention in his ruling in Somerset's Case is mixed, with the current prevailing view being that he did not intend to free the slaves. The judgment was particularly narrow, as it ruled only that a master could not carry his slave out of England by force, not that slaves who came to England were emancipated. This is seen as particularly telling because this was the primary argument of Davy and Hargrave. If Murray had wanted to emancipate the slaves completely, there were various bits of judicial precedent he could have based his decision on, such as \"Smith v Gould\" or \"Shanley v Harvey\", but he did not. Various comments he made before and during the case also suggest that complete emancipation was not his intent; in a preliminary judgment he said that \"the setting 14,000 or 15,000 men at once free loose by a solemn opinion, is much disagreeable in the effect it threatens”, which one modern legal scholar interprets as indicative of his reluctance to make a decision for fear of economic consequences. Various comments he made to Thomas Hutchinson in private letters, along with his comments about the \"Somersett\" decision in R v Inhabitants of Thames Ditton also suggest that emancipation was not his goal. In 1785, Lord Mansfield expressed the view in R v Inhabitants of Thames Ditton that his ruling in the Somerset case decided only that a slave could not be forcibly removed from England against his will.\n\nMansfield's marriage to Lady Finch was barren. His title, which succeeds to this day, passed to his nephew, David Murray, 2nd Earl of Mansfield.\n\nMansfield is immortalised in St Stephen's Hall, where he and other notable Parliamentarians look on at visitors to Parliament. \n\n\nMansfield was noted at the Bar, in Parliament, and while sitting as a judge, for his eloquence and skill as a speaker; in particular Lord Chesterfield described him as \"beyond comparison the best speaker\" in the House of Commons. He was also a hard worker; he would sometimes do court paperwork himself, as well as do his judicial duties, in an attempt to speed up the legal process.\n\nHe was summarised by Gareth Jones as \"Conservative, urbane, silver-tongued, energetic, cultivated and well read; a highly imaginative lawyer who looked to reason and was not overawed by the legacy of the past\". Edmund Burke, a contemporary, said that \"he had some superiors in force, some equals in persuasion; but in \"insinuation\" he was without a rival. He excelled in the statement of a case. This, of itself, was worth the argument of any other man\". The comment by Samuel Johnson that \"Much may be made of a [Scotsman], if he be caught young\" was directed at Mansfield, and Johnson also described him as \"more than a mere lawyer\", while Edward Coke, who is considered one of the most important lawyers in the history of English law, was \"only a lawyer\".\n\nUnlike other barristers, Mansfield was noted for always keeping a cool head and being \"prudent to the point of timidity\". He was criticised for being \"moderate and dispassionate\", unlike more aggressive barristers such as Edward Coke; when asked about this he replied that \"I would not have made Sir Edward Coke's speech to gain all Sir Edward Coke's estates and all his reputation\". There are conflicting reports about his temperament and attitude as a judge; William Pitt described him as \"a very bad judge, proud, haughty to the Bar and hasty in his determinations\", and Charles Yorke said he was \"offensive and unpopular\". Both opinions are suspect, however; Pitt's because he was a constant rival to Mansfield and Yorke's because he was attempting to beat Mansfield to the position of Lord Chancellor at the time. Edward Foss said that \"there has never been a judge more venerated by his contemporaries, nor whose memory is regarded with greater respect and affection\", and described him as \"the great oracle of law\".\n\nMansfield has been called \"the legal genius of his generation\", and compared favourably with Joseph Story, a judge of the Supreme Court of the United States noted for his brilliance. Other Americans such as Julian S. Waterman, the founder of the University of Arkansas School of Law, described him as \"not only the greatest common law judge but the greatest judge in Anglo-American legal history\", while Joseph Story himself said that Mansfield \"broke down the narrow barrier of the common law, redeemed it from feudal selfishness and barbarity\" and that \"he was one of those great men raised up by Providence, at a fortunate moment, to effect a salutary revolution in the world\".\n\n"}
{"id": "445022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445022", "title": "Women's studies", "text": "Women's studies\n\nWomen's studies is an academic field that draws on feminist and interdisciplinary methods in order to place women’s lives and experiences at the center of study, while examining social and cultural constructs of gender; systems of privilege and oppression; and the relationships between power and gender as they intersect with other identities and social locations such as race, sexual orientation, socio-economic class, and disability.\n\nPopular theories within the field of women's studies include feminist theory, standpoint theory, intersectionality, multiculturalism, transnational feminism, social justice, affect studies, agency, biopolitics, materialisms, and embodiment. Research practices and methodologies associated with women's studies include ethnography, autoethnography, focus groups, surveys, community-based research, discourse analysis, and reading practices associated with critical theory, post-structuralism, and queer theory. The field researches and critiques societal norms of gender, race, class, sexuality, and other social inequalities.\n\nWomen's studies is closely related to the fields of gender studies, feminist studies, and sexuality studies, and more broadly related to the fields of cultural studies, ethnic studies, and African-American studies. Women's studies courses are offered in over seven hundred institutions in the United States, and globally in more than forty countries.\n\nIn 1956 Australian feminist Madge Dawson took up a lectureship in the Department of Adult Education at Sydney University and began researching and teaching on the status of women. Dawson's course, \"Women in a Changing World,\" focused on the socio-economic and political status of women in western Europe, becoming one of the first women's studies courses. The first accredited women's studies course in the U.S was held in 1969 at Cornell University. After a year of intense organizing of women's consciousness raising groups, rallies, petition circulating, and operating unofficial or experimental classes and presentations before seven committees and assemblies, the first women's studies program in the United States was established in 1970 at San Diego State College (now San Diego State University). In conjunction with National Women's Liberation Movement, students and community members created the AD HOC Committee for women's studies.The second women's studies program in the United States was established in 1971 at Wichita State University in Wichita, Kansas. It was mostly formed though efforts by women in the English department, administration and community. By 1974 SDSU faculty members began a nationwide campaign for the integration of the department. At the time, these actions and the field were extremely political. During these early days of women's studies, before formalized departments and programs, many courses were advertised unofficially around campuses and taught by women faculty members—for free—in addition to their established teaching and administrative responsibilities. Then, as in many cases today, faculty who teach in women's studies often hold faculty appointments in other departments on campus.\n\nThe first scholarly journal in interdisciplinary women's studies, \"Feminist Studies\", began publishing in 1972. The National Women's Studies Association (of the United States) was established in 1977.\n\nThe 1980s saw the growth and development of women's studies courses and programs across universities in the U.S., while the field continued to grapple with backlash from both conservative groups and concerns from those within the women's movement about the white, essentialist, and heterosexual privilege of those in the academy. The political aims of the feminist movement that compelled the formation of women's studies found itself at odds with the institutionalized academic feminism of the 1990s. As \"woman\" as a concept continued to be expanded, the exploration of social constructions of gender led to the field's expansion into both gender studies and sexuality studies.\n\nThe field of women's studies continued to grow during the 1990s and into the 2000s with the expansion of universities offering majors, minors, and certificates in women's studies, gender studies, and feminist studies. The first Ph.D. program in Women's Studies was established at Emory University in 1990. As of 2012, there were 16 institutions offering a Ph.D. in Women's Studies in the United States. Since then, UC Santa Cruz (2013), the University of Kentucky-Lexington (2013), Stony Brook University (2014), and Oregon State University (2016) also introduced a Ph.D. in the field. In 2015 at Kabul University the first master's degree course in gender and women's studies in Afghanistan began. Courses in Women's Studies in the United Kingdom can be found through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service.\n\nEarly women's studies courses and curricula were often driven by the question \"where are the women?\". That is, as more women were present in higher education as both students and faculty, questions arose about the male-centric nature of most courses and curricula. Women faculty in traditional departments such as history, English, and philosophy began to offer courses with a focus on women. Drawing from the women's movement's notion that \"the personal is political,\" courses also began to develop around sexual politics, women's roles in society, and the ways in which women's personal lives reflect larger power structures.\n\nSince the 1970s, scholars of women's studies have taken post-modern approaches to understanding gender as it intersects with race, class, ethnicity, sexuality, religion, age, and (dis)ability to produce and maintain power structures within society. With this turn, there has been a focus on language, subjectivity, and social hegemony, and how the lives of subjects, however they identify, are constituted. At the core of these theories is the notion that however one identifies, gender, sex, and sexuality are not intrinsic, but are socially constructed.\n\nMajor theories employed in women's studies courses include feminist theory, intersectionality, standpoint theory, transnational feminism, and social justice. Research practices associated with women's studies place women and the experiences of women at the center of inquiry through the use of quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods. Feminist researchers acknowledge their role in the production of knowledge and make explicit the relationship between the researcher and the research subject.\n\nFeminist theory refers to the body of writing that works to address gender discrimination and disparities, while acknowledging, describing, and analyzing the experiences and conditions of women's lives. Theorists and writers such as bell hooks, Simone de Beauvoir, Patricia Hill Collins, and Alice Walker added to the field of feminist theory with respect to the ways in which race and gender mutually inform the experiences of women of color with works such as \"\" (hooks), \"In Search of Our Mothers' Gardens\" (Walker), and \"\" (Collins). Alice Walker coined the term womanism to situate black women's experiences as they struggle for social change and liberation, while simultaneously celebrating the strength of black women, their culture, and their beauty. Patricia Hill Collin's contributed the concept of the \"matrix of domination\" to feminist theory, which reconceptualizes race, class, and gender as interlocking systems of oppression that shape experiences of privilege and oppression.\n\nAssociated with the third wave of feminism, Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw's theory of intersectionality is an approach to understanding how institutional structures mutually shape an individual's gendered, racial, and social status. Intersectional theory posits that these relationships must be considered in conversation with each other in order to understand hierarchies of power and privilege and they ways in which they manifest in an individual's life.\n\nStandpoint theory developed in the 1980s as way of critically examining the production of knowledge and its resulting effects on practices of power. Standpoint theory operates from the idea that knowledge is socially situated and, as a result, underrepresented groups and minorities have historically been ignored or marginalized when it comes to the production of knowledge. Emerging from Marxist thought, standpoint theory argues for analysis that challenges the authority of political and social \"truths\".\n\nTransnational feminism is concerned with the flow of social, political, and economic equality of women and men across borders, particularly in response to globalization, neoliberalism, and imperialism. Women's studies began incorporating transnational feminist theory into its curricula as a way to disrupt and challenge the ways knowledge is prioritized, transmitted, and circulates in the field and academy.\n\nSince its inception and connection with the women's movement, activism has been a foundation of women's studies. Increasingly social justice has become a key component of women's studies courses, programs, and departments. Social justice theory is concerned with the fight for just communities, not on the individual level, but for the whole of society. Women's studies students engage in social justice projects, although some scholars and critics are concerned about requiring students to engage in mandated activism or social justice work.\n\nIn most institutions, women's studies courses employ feminist pedagogy in a triad model of equal parts research, theory, and praxis. The decentralization of the professor as the source of knowledge is often fundamental to women's studies classroom culture. Students are encouraged to take an active role in \"claiming\" their education, taking responsibility for themselves and the learning process. Women's studies programs and courses are designed to explore the intersectionality of gender, race, sexuality, class and other topics that are involved in identity politics and societal norms through a feminist lens. Women's studies courses focus on a variety of topics such as media literacy, sexuality, race and ethnicity, history involving women, queer theory, multiculturalism and other courses closely related. Faculty incorporate these components into classes across a variety of topics, including popular culture, women in the economy, reproductive and environmental justice, and women's health across the lifespan.\n\nWomen's studies programs are involved in social justice work and often design curricula that are embedded with theory and activism outside of the classroom setting. Some women's studies programs offer internships that are community-based allowing students the opportunity to experience how institutional structures of privilege and oppression directly affects women's lives. Women's studies curricula often encourage students to participate in service-learning activities in addition to discussion and reflection upon course materials. However, Daphne Patai, from the University of Massachusetts Amherst, has criticized this aspect of women's studies programs, arguing that they place politics over education, stating that \"the strategies of faculty members in these programs have included policing insensitive language, championing research methods deemed congenial to women (such as qualitative over quantitative methods), and conducting classes as if they were therapy sessions.\"\n\nSince women's studies students analyze identity markers such as gender, race, class, and sexuality, this often results in dissecting institutionalized structures of power. As a result of these pedagogies, women's studies students leave university with a toolset to make social change and do something about power inequalities in society.\n\nNotable women's studies scholars include Charlotte Bunch, Patricia Hill Collins, bell hooks, Angela Davis, Cherríe Moraga, Audre Lorde, Adrienne Rich, and Barbara Ransby.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38880664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38880664", "title": "Đorđe Branković (count)", "text": "Đorđe Branković (count)\n\nĐorđe Branković (, , ; 1645 – 19 December 1711) was a Transylvanian Serb diplomat, writer, and self-proclaimed descendant of the medieval Serbian Branković dynasty. He served as the agent representing the ruler of Transylvania at the Ottoman Porte. In 1680, he moved to Wallachia, whose ruler sent him as an emissary to the Habsburg Emperor Leopold I in 1688. That year, the emperor conferred the title of Imperial Count on Branković. After Habsburg troops captured parts of Serbia from the Ottoman Empire during the Great Turkish War, Branković attempted to restore the medieval Serbian state with him as its hereditary ruler. His venture failed in its inception, and Habsburg authorities arrested him in 1689. He lived on as a captive in Vienna and Cheb, though he was not held in a prison. He wrote the \"Slavo-Serbian Chronicles\", which was influential in the development of early modern Serbian historiography.\n\nĐorđe Branković was born in 1645 in the town of Ineu () in Arad County, at the western border of the Principality of Transylvania, which was a vassal state of the Ottoman Empire. The Branković family owned large estates, and it had produced several notable soldiers and ecclesiastics since the end of the 16th century, becoming the most prominent among the Serb families of Arad County. Đorđe, who was the youngest of Jovan Branković's four sons, lost his father and two brothers to the plague when he was less than ten years old. His mother then became a nun and retreated into a monastery. Đorđe was taken to raise by his brother Simeon, who became the Orthodox protopope of Ineu. In December 1656, Simeon was consecrated Orthodox Metropolitan of Transylvania; he changed his name to Sava when he took his monastic vows. Metropolitan Sava II moved to the capital of the principality, Gyulafehérvár, taking his brother Đorđe with him.\n\nSava developed the idea that the Brankovićs of Arad County descended from the medieval Branković dynasty, the last ruling dynasty in Serbia before the Ottoman conquest. He passed this idea to Đorđe, with whom it would remain all his life. The metropolitan planned a diplomatic and political career for his younger brother, who learned Turkish, Hungarian, Romanian, and Latin. In 1663, during the government of Prince Michael I Apafi, Đorđe was employed as dragoman for the \"kapı kâhyası\" (agent) representing the ruler of Transylvania at the Ottoman Porte. After the agent died in December 1663, Đorđe served as the acting \"kapı kâhyası\" until October 1664. He remained at the Porte until 1667, participating in several diplomatic missions. In 1668, Metropolitan Sava II travelled to the Russian Empire accompanied by eleven men, Đorđe Branković among them. The metropolitan had an audience with Tsar Alexis, and informed him that the Orthodox Serbs, Bulgarians, and Wallachians were ready to liberate themselves from the Turks, with Russia's military help.\n\nShortly after he returned from Russia, Branković was again in the service of Prince Apafi, who entrusted him with diplomatic and intelligence assignments. He served as the Transylvanian \"kapı kâhyası\" at the Porte from 1675 to 1677. In 1680, Metropolitan Sava II was uncanonically deposed and imprisoned, because he had contacts with political opponents of Prince Apafi. Sava also had a fierce enemy in the Calvinist Superintendent of Transylvania, who saw him as an obstacle towards the intended conversion of the Orthodox into Calvinism. The latter denomination was dominant in Transylvania. Đorđe Branković was briefly imprisoned for having the same contacts of which his brother was accused.\n\nAfter his release from prison, Branković left Transylvania and moved to Bucharest, the capital of Wallachia, another vassal state of the Ottoman Empire. He kept close relations with the lord of Wallachia, Șerban Cantacuzino, who persuaded Apafi to release Sava from prison. Sava died shortly afterwards, at the end of 1681.\n\nThe leader of Apafi's opponents in Transylvania, Count Ladislaus Csáky, kept contacts with Cantacuzino and Branković. In 1683, when the Great Turkish War was about to start, Cantacuzino sent him to the Habsburg Emperor Leopold I in Vienna. Csáky communicated to the Emperor that Cantacuzino and Branković were willing to become his allies. Csáky also gave to the emperor a letter in which Đorđe Branković presented himself as a descendant of the Branković dynasty, and requested the title of Hungarian Baron, which had been born by members of the dynasty. On 7 June 1683, Branković was given the requested title, and recognized as the hereditary lord of Herzegovina, Syrmia, and Ineu.\n\nWallachia was predominantly Orthodox, as was its ruler Cantacuzino. Letters from Cantacuzino and Serbian Patriarch Arsenije III Čarnojević were sent in 1688 from Bucharest to the Russian Tsar. He was called to intervene militarily in the Balkans, to liberate the Orthodox from the Turks, and to prevent the Habsburgs from forcibly converting the Orthodox into Catholicism if they succeeded in taking the Balkans from the Turks. The Serbian Patriarch wrote his letter after Branković informed him through an emissary about Cantacuzino's intention to contact the tsar. The emissary brought from Čarnojević an additional letter, specifically for Branković, in which the patriarch confirmed Branković's descent from the Serbian dynasty. The latter paper had most likely been written by Branković himself, and the patriarch only put his signature on it.\n\nAt the end of May 1688, Cantacuzino sent Đorđe Branković and two more emissaries to Emperor Leopold, to relate his support for the Christian fight against the Turks. Preparing for this journey, Branković composed a memorial which he would present at the Habsburg court. The memorial stated that leaders of peoples of the \"Illyrian Kingdom\"—Bosnians, Serbians, Bulgarians, Rascians, Thracians, Albanians, and Macedonians—proclaimed Đorđe II Branković, a descendant of \"Đorđe I Branković\", as their hereditary ruler. The Illyrian Kingdom, which would be reestablished after the expulsion of the Turks from Europe, would include most of the Balkans and some lands belonging to the Kingdom of Hungary. Branković should be raised to the rank of Imperial Prince.\n\nAll in all, the text of the memorial was confused and unrealistic. However, the Habsburg Empire was at that time in a difficult position: it was about to wage a war with France, in addition to the Great Turkish War; and its finances were greatly diminished. Leopold's counsellors regarded that Branković could be used to motivate the Serbs south of the Danube and Sava Rivers to join the Imperial Army after its deeper advances into the Ottoman Empire. Any help was welcome, and the Banat Serbs had recently proved helpful. On 20 September 1688, two weeks after Belgrade was captured from the Turks, Branković was given the title of Imperial Count. He was referred to in Latin as \"Comes Georgius Brankovich de Podgoricza\". His alleged ancestor, Vuk Branković, was thought to hail from the town of Podgorica in Montenegro.\n\nCount Branković went to Wallachia and set about gathering men whom he would lead against the Turks. He proclaimed Captain Novak Petrović from Banat as the commander of his army. With his help, he gathered 800 armed men, with whom he went to the town of Orșova on the left bank of the Danube, across the area of Kladovo in eastern Serbia. Serb insurgents were already active in western and central Serbia anticipating an offensive of the Imperial Army. Branković intended to raise an insurgency in eastern Serbia. On 12 June 1689, \"Đorđe II\" issued a proclamation to his alleged subjects, the \"peoples of eastern and northern Illyria, Thrace, Moesia, and other countries\", calling them to rise up against the Turks. He sent two monks across the Danube to spread his proclamation, and to call Serb elders to muster around him in Orșova. The monks were well received by the elders, but none of them appeared in Orșova; Branković was practically unknown among the Serbs outside Transylvania. After this failure, Branković went to a monastery in Wallachia.\n\nIn the mean time, counsellors of Emperor Leopold learned of the correspondence between Cantacuzino, Čarnojević, and the Russian Tsar. The Habsburgs were apprehensive of a Russian involvement in the Balkans, and the role which Branković played in that correspondence made them suspicious of him. They then checked historical records and concluded that his claim of descent was unfounded. Louis William, Margrave of Baden-Baden, who was in command of the Habsburg troops fighting in Serbia, gathered information on Branković's activities, and he concluded that they were against the interests of the Empire. In a letter dated 5 August 1689, Emperor Leopold instructed the Margrave to coax Branković into visiting him, and, if necessary, to arrest him. On 24 September, Louis William captured Niš with the help of Serb insurgents under Pavle Nestorović Deak, and then he returned toward the Danube.\n\nBranković, who was still staying at the monastery, was invited in October to visit Louis William at his camp near Kladovo. As soon as he came there, Branković was arrested and after an interrogation sent to a prison in Sibiu, Transylvania. An independent state in the Balkans, as apparently Branković's ambition was to create, was not wanted by the Habsburgs. They intended to take Transylvania, Wallachia, Moldavia, Bosnia, Serbia, and Bulgaria from the Ottomans, and to annex these lands to the Kingdom of Hungary as part of their empire. In June 1690, Branković was transferred to Vienna, where he was placed under civilian supervision, and accommodated in a poorhouse.\n\nBy the end of 1690, the Ottomans recaptured Serbia, and many Serbs, including Patriarch Arsenije III, emigrated to the Habsburg-held southern Hungary. Branković became more widely known among the Serbs after a Serbian bishop met with him in Vienna in August 1690. In March 1691, Serb elders assembled in Buda to discuss formation of the Serbian Militia in Hungary. The elders elected Count Branković by acclamation as the Chief of the Serbs. As he was confined, Jovan Monasterlija was elected as his deputy, which was confirmed by Emperor Leopold on 11 April 1691.\n\nIn May 1692, Branković was moved from the poorhouse and accommodated at an inn named \"Zum goldenen Bären\", where he remained until the end of 1703. From then on, he was kept at a house in the Bohemian town of Cheb. The Habsburg authorities refused all petitions for his release. He died on 19 December 1711. In 1743, his remains were transported from Cheb and buried at the Serbian Orthodox Monastery of Krušedol.\n\nĐorđe Branković's title was passed on to his relative Jovan Branković, who was born in around 1675 in the town of Lipova, Arad County, Principality of Transylvania. He was Đorđe's personal attendant from at least 1700 until the count's death. Jovan Branković and his descendants, Counts of Podgorica, mostly served as officers in the Habsburg army in the Military Frontier. The last Count of Podgorica died in 1856, ending the male line of Jovan Branković.\n\nWhile he resided in Bucharest, Branković wrote \"Istoriile domnilor Ţării Româneşti\", a world history in the Romanian language with a special emphasis on Wallachia, Moldavia, and Hungary. During his captivity in Vienna and Cheb, Branković composed his main work—\"Slavo-Serbian Chronicles\" in five volumes—written in the Serbian recension of the Church Slavonic language (Serbo-Slavonic). It is a history of Southeast Europe, primarily focusing on the Serbs. Conceptually and methodologically, this work belongs to medieval historiography; in its intentions, however, it is a political text. It was influential in the development of early modern Serbian historiography, especially through its influence on 18th-century historian Jovan Rajić. It also influenced Serbian folk tradition: Branković claimed in the \"Chronicles\" that Prince Lazar Hrebeljanović was crowned tsar, and the prince is to this day known among the Serbs as Tsar Lazar. As a historical source, only the last volume of the \"Chronicles\" is of a certain value.\n\n\n"}
