{"id": "4730949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4730949", "title": "Animal product", "text": "Animal product\n\nAn animal product is any material derived from the body of an animal. Examples are fat, flesh, blood, milk, eggs, and lesser known products, such as isinglass and rennet.\n\nAnimal by-products, as defined by the USDA, are products harvested or manufactured from livestock other than muscle meat. In the EU, animal by-products (ABPs) are defined somewhat more broadly, as materials from animals that people do not consume. Thus, chicken eggs for human consumption are considered by-products in the US but not France; whereas eggs destined for animal feed are classified as animal by-products in both countries. This does not in itself reflect on the condition, safety, or \"wholesomeness\" of the product.\n\nAnimal by-products are carcasses and parts of carcasses from slaughterhouses, animal shelters, zoos and veterinarians, and products of animal origin not intended for human consumption, including catering waste. These products may go through a process known as \"rendering\" to be made into human and non-human foodstuffs, fats, and other material that can be sold to make commercial products such as cosmetics, paint, cleaners, polishes, glue, soap and ink. The sale of animal by-products allows the meat industry to compete economically with industries selling sources of vegetable protein.\n\nGenerally, products made from fossilized or decomposed animals, such as petroleum formed from the ancient remains of marine animals, are not considered animal products. Crops grown in soil fertilized with animal remains are rarely characterized as animal products.\n\nSeveral diets prohibit the inclusion of some animal products, including vegetarian, kosher, and halal. Other diets, such as veganism and the raw vegan diet, exclude any material of animal origin.\n\nIn international trade legislation, the terminology products of animal origin (POAO) is used.\n\nSlaughterhouse waste is defined as animal body parts cut off in the preparation of carcasses for use as food. This waste can come from several sources, including slaughterhouses, restaurants, stores and farms. In the UK, slaughterhouse waste is classed as category 3 risk waste in the Animal By-Products Regulations, with the exception of condemned meat which is classed as category 2 risk.\n\nThe leftover pieces that comes from the process of stripping meat from animals tends to get used for different purposes. One of them is to put these parts into pet food. Many large, well-known pet food brands use animal by-products as protein sources in their recipes. This can include animal feet, livers, lungs, heads, spleens, etc. \n\n"}
{"id": "1157839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1157839", "title": "Antarctic ice sheet", "text": "Antarctic ice sheet\n\nThe Antarctic ice sheet is one of the two polar ice caps of the Earth. It covers about 98% of the Antarctic continent and is the largest single mass of ice on Earth. It covers an area of almost and contains of ice. A cubic kilometer of ice weighs approximately one metric gigaton, meaning that the ice sheet weighs 26,500,000 gigatons. Approximately 61 percent of all fresh water on the Earth is held in the Antarctic ice sheet, an amount equivalent to about 58 m of sea-level rise. In East Antarctica, the ice sheet rests on a major land mass, while in West Antarctica the bed can extend to more than 2,500 m below sea level. \n\nIn contrast to the melting of the Arctic sea ice, sea ice around Antarctica was expanding . The reasons for this are not fully understood, but suggestions include the climatic effects on ocean and atmospheric circulation of the ozone hole, and/or cooler ocean surface temperatures as the warming deep waters melt the ice shelves.\n\nThe icing of Antarctica began in the middle Eocene about 45.5 million years ago and escalated during the Eocene–Oligocene extinction event about 34 million years ago. CO levels were then about 760 ppm and had been decreasing from earlier levels in the thousands of ppm. Carbon dioxide decrease, with a tipping point of 600 ppm, was the primary agent forcing Antarctic glaciation. The glaciation was favored by an interval when the Earth's orbit favored cool summers but oxygen isotope ratio cycle marker changes were too large to be explained by Antarctic ice-sheet growth alone indicating an ice age of some size. The opening of the Drake Passage may have played a role as well though models of the changes suggest declining CO levels to have been more important.\n\nThe Western Antarctic ice sheet declined somewhat during the warm early Pliocene epoch, approximately 5 to 3 million years ago; during this time the Ross Sea opened up. But there was no significant decline in the land-based Eastern Antarctic ice sheet.\n\nAccording to a 2009 study, the continent-wide average surface temperature trend of Antarctica is positive and significant at >0.05 °C/decade since 1957.\nWest Antarctica has warmed by more than 0.1 °C/decade in the last 50 years, and this warming is strongest in winter and spring. Although this is partly offset by fall cooling in East Antarctica, this effect is restricted to the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIce enters the sheet through precipitation as snow. This snow is then compacted to form glacier ice which moves under gravity towards the coast. Most of it is carried to the coast by fast moving ice streams. The ice then passes into the ocean, often forming vast floating ice shelves. These shelves then melt or calve off to give icebergs that eventually melt.\n\nIf the transfer of the ice from the land to the sea is balanced by snow falling back on the land then there will be no net contribution to global sea levels. The general trend shows that a warming climate in the southern hemisphere would transport more moisture to Antarctica, causing the interior ice sheets to grow, while calving events along the coast will increase, causing these areas to shrink. A 2006 paper derived from satellite data, measuring changes in the gravity of the ice mass, suggests that the total amount of ice in Antarctica has begun decreasing in the past few years. A 2008 study compared the ice leaving the ice sheet, by measuring the ice velocity and thickness along the coast, to the amount of snow accumulation over the continent. This found that the East Antarctic Ice Sheet was in balance but the West Antarctic Ice Sheet was losing mass. This was largely due to acceleration of ice streams such as Pine Island Glacier. These results agree closely with the gravity changes. An estimate published in November 2012 and based on the GRACE data as well as on an improved glacial isostatic adjustment model discussed systematic uncertainty in the estimates, and by studying 26 separate regions, estimated an average yearly mass loss of from 2002 to 2010 (a sea-level rise of ). The mass loss was geographically uneven, mainly occurring along the Amundsen Sea coast, while the West Antarctic Ice Sheet mass was roughly constant and the East Antarctic Ice Sheet gained in mass.\n\nAntarctic sea ice anomalies have roughly followed the pattern of warming, with the greatest declines occurring off the coast of West Antarctica. East Antarctica sea ice has been increasing since 1978, though not at a statistically significant rate. The atmospheric warming has been directly linked to the mass losses in West Antarctica of the first decade of the twenty-first century. This mass loss is more likely to be due to increased melting of the ice shelves because of changes in ocean circulation patterns (which themselves may be linked to atmospheric circulation changes that may also explain the warming trends in West Antarctica). Melting of the ice shelves in turn causes the ice streams to speed up. The melting and disappearance of the floating ice shelves will only have a small effect on sea level, which is due to salinity differences. The most important consequence of their increased melting is the speed up of the ice streams on land which are buttressed by these ice shelves.\n\n"}
{"id": "1432522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1432522", "title": "Calvert Cliffs State Park", "text": "Calvert Cliffs State Park\n\nCalvert Cliffs State Park is a public recreation area in Lusby, Calvert County, Maryland, that protects a portion of cliffs that extend for 24 miles along the eastern flank of the Calvert Peninsula on the west side of Chesapeake Bay from Chesapeake Beach southward to Drum Point. The state park is known for the abundance of mainly Middle Miocene sub-epoch fossils that can be found on the shoreline.\n\nThe park contains the type locality site of the Early to Middle Miocene Calvert Formation. These rocks are the sediment from a coastal ocean that covered the area during that time. The age of the formation is (19-)18–15(-14) million years ago (Ma), i.e. it extends essentially over the Hemingfordian stage. This formation occurs in Maryland and neighboring Virginia.\n\nIn addition, rocks of the younger Choptank and the St. Marys Formations are exposed here. This makes Calvert Cliffs State Park extremely interesting for its paleoclimatology and paleontology, because the accessible strata provide a good record of the Middle Miocene Climate Transition and document a minor mass extinction event — the \"Middle Miocene disruption.\" Fossil collecting and \"rockhounding\" are permitted on the beach; the cliffs are closed due the dangers of erosion.\n\nThe Calvert Formation is notable for its plentiful fossil shark teeth. Especially popular among \"rockhounds\" are those from giants such as \"Carcharocles\" and the famous \"Megalodon\" (which is often included in \"Carcharocles\").\n\nThe ancestral baleen whale \"Eobalaenoptera harrisoni\" and the merganser \"Mergus miscellus\" were described from the Virginian part of the formation. From the uppermost layer, deposited 15–14 Ma, they represent the oldest known member of their family and genus, respectively. Some remains of a prehistoric loon (\"Gavia\") from the lowermost parts of the Calvert Formation, dating back nearly 18 Ma, are the oldest records of that genus from North America, and among the oldest worldwide.\n\nOther notable baleen whales from this area include a \"Cephalotropis coronatus\". One was discovered by hobbyist paleontologist Jeffery DiMeglio in 2004 after cliff erosion caused by Hurricane Isabel exposed the skull and scapula. Mandibles, neck vertebrae, and scapulae were also found during the dig. The skull and vertebrae are on display at the Calvert Marine Museum. Other items found in the field jackets of the whale were fish bones, hundreds of mollusks, a \"Hexanchus gigas\" tooth, and two \"Carcharodon hastalis\" teeth.\n\nOn his 1612 map, Captain John Smith identified the area as \"Rickard's Cliffes,\" having given them his mother's family's name. Some 350 years later, the state park was developed with the General Assembly funding land purchases in each year from 1965 to 1968, then in 1969, dedicating money to the installation of the park's initial roads, parking area, and utilities.\n\nThe Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant is located a short distance north of the park. The Dominion Cove Point liquid natural gas receiving station is visible off shore from the park beach.\n\nCalvert Cliffs State Park is mostly forested, with some wetland areas and a small pond for fishing. The park has of marked hiking trails. A quarter-mile-long sandy beach is accessible via a trail. Some 550 acres are open to hunting upland game, turkey, and deer. The park is rich in biodiversity and is home to numerous species of plants and animals, with at least 163 species of birds observed in the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "16011797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16011797", "title": "Cape Nelson State Park", "text": "Cape Nelson State Park\n\nThe Cape Nelson State Park, near Portland on Victoria's southwest coast is a state park. Attractions include a clifftop walk and a visit to the Cape Nelson lighthouse. The lighthouse was completed in 1884 and today offers accommodation in the Light Station Keepers Cottages. Part of the route of the Great South West Walk is located within the park.\n\nFauna include the Heath Mouse, Red-necked Wallaby and Echidna. The main vegetation types are listed as Soap Mallee, Heath and Wet Heath.\n\nThe Cape Nelson lighthouse featured in the 2010 romantic drama \"South Solitary\". The film provides good coverage of the interior of the lighthouse, cottage features and the landscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "24701302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24701302", "title": "Clinopyroxene thermobarometry", "text": "Clinopyroxene thermobarometry\n\nIn petrology, the mineral clinopyroxene is used for temperature and pressure calculations of the magma that produced igneous rock containing this mineral. Clinopyroxene thermobarometry is one of several geothermobarometers. Two things makes this method especially useful: first, clinopyroxene is a common phenocryst in igneous rocks and easy to identify; second, the crystallization of the jadeite component of clinopyroxene implies a growth in molar volume being thus a good indicator of pressure.\n\nThe minerals and liquids involved in clinopyroxene thermobarometry are:\n\n"}
{"id": "169146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169146", "title": "Cold cathode", "text": "Cold cathode\n\nA cold cathode is a cathode that is not electrically heated by a filament. A cathode may be considered \"cold\" if it emits more electrons than can be supplied by thermionic emission alone. It is used in gas-discharge lamps, such as neon lamps, discharge tubes, and some types of vacuum tube. The other type of cathode is a hot cathode, which is heated by electric current passing through a filament. A cold cathode does not necessarily operate at a low temperature: it is often heated to its operating temperature by other methods, such as the current passing from the cathode into the gas.\n\nA cold-cathode vacuum tube does not rely on external heating of an electrode to provide thermionic emission of electrons. Early cold-cathode devices included the Geissler tube and Plucker tube, and early cathode ray tubes. Study of the phenomena in these devices led to the discovery of the electron.\n\nNeon lamps are used both to produce light as indicators and for special-purpose illumination, and also as circuit elements displaying negative resistance. Addition of a trigger electrode to a device allowed the glow discharge to be initiated by an external control circuit; Bell Laboratories developed a \"trigger tube\" cold-cathode device in 1936.\n\nMany types of cold-cathode switching tube were developed, including various types of thyratron, the krytron, cold-cathode displays (Nixie tube) and others. Voltage regulator tubes rely on the relatively constant voltage of a glow discharge over a range of current and were used to stabilize power-supply voltages in tube-based instruments. A Dekatron is a cold-cathode tube with multiple electrodes that is used for counting. Each time a pulse is applied to a control electrode, a glow discharge moves to a step electrode; by providing ten electrodes in each tube and cascading the tubes, a counter system can be developed and the count observed by the position of the glow discharges. Counter tubes were used widely before development of integrated circuit counter devices.\n\nThe flash tube is a cold-cathode device filled with xenon gas, used to produce an intense short pulse of light for photography or to act as a stroboscope to examine the motion of moving parts.\n\nCold-cathode lamps include cold-cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs) and neon lamps. Neon lamps primarily rely on excitation of gas molecules to emit light; CCFLs use a discharge in mercury vapor to develop ultraviolet light, which in turn causes a fluorescent coating on the inside of the lamp to emit visible light.\n\nCold-cathode fluorescent lamps are used for backlighting of LCDs, for example computer monitors and television screens.\n\nIn the lighting industry, “cold cathode” historically refers to luminous tubing larger than 20 mm in diameter and operating on a current of 120 to 240 milliamperes. This larger-diameter tubing is often used for interior alcove and general lighting.\nThe term \"neon lamp\" refers to tubing that is smaller than 15 mm in diameter and typically operates at approximately 40 milliamperes. These lamps are commonly used for neon signs.\n\nThe cathode is the negative electrode. Any gas-discharge lamp has a positive (anode) and a negative electrode. Both electrodes alternate between acting as an anode and a cathode when these devices run with alternating current.\n\nA \"cold cathode\" is distinguished from a hot cathode that is heated to induce thermionic emission of electrons. Discharge tubes with hot cathodes have an envelope filled with low-pressure gas and containing two electrodes. Examples are most common fluorescent lamps, high-pressure discharge lamps and vacuum fluorescent displays.\n\nThe surface of cold cathodes can emit secondary electrons at a ratio greater than unity (breakdown). An electron that leaves the cathode will collide with neutral gas molecules. The collision may just excite the molecule, but sometimes it will knock an electron free to create a positive ion. The original electron and the freed electron continue toward the anode and may create more positive ions (see Townsend avalanche). The result is for each electron that leaves the cathode, several positive ions are generated that eventually crash onto the cathode. Some crashing positive ions may generate a secondary electron. The discharge is self-sustaining when for each electron that leaves the cathode, enough positive ions hit the cathode to free, on average, another electron. External circuitry limits the discharge current. Cold-cathode discharge lamps use higher voltages than hot-cathode ones. The resulting strong electric field near the cathode accelerates ions to a sufficient velocity to create free electrons from the cathode material.\n\nAnother mechanism to generate free electrons from a cold metallic surface is field electron emission. It is used in some x-ray tubes, the field-electron microscope (FEM), and field-emission displays (FEDs).\n\nCold cathodes sometimes have a rare-earth coating to enhance electron emission. Some types contain a source of beta radiation to start ionization of the gas that fills the tube. In some tubes, glow discharge around the cathode is usually minimized; instead there is a so-called positive column, filling the tube. Examples are the neon lamp and nixie tubes. Nixie tubes too are cold-cathode neon displays that are in-line, but not in-plane, display devices.\n\nCold-cathode devices typically use a complex high-voltage power supply with some mechanism for limiting current. Although creating the initial space charge and the first arc of current through the tube may require a very high voltage, once the tube begins to heat up, the electrical resistance drops, thus increasing the electric current through the lamp. To offset this effect and maintain normal operation, the supply voltage is gradually lowered. In the case of tubes with an ionizing gas, the gas can become a very hot plasma, and electrical resistance is greatly reduced. If operated from a simple power supply without current limiting, this reduction in resistance would lead to damage to the power supply and overheating of the tube electrodes.\n\nCold cathodes are used in cold-cathode rectifiers, such as the crossatron and mercury-arc valves, and cold-cathode amplifiers, such as in automatic message accounting and other pseudospark switching applications. Other examples include the thyratron, krytron, sprytron, and ignitron tubes.\n\nA common cold-cathode application is in neon signs and other locations where the ambient temperature is likely to drop well below freezing, The Clock Tower, Palace of Westminster (Big Ben) uses cold-cathode lighting behind the clock faces where continual striking and failure to strike in cold weather would be undesirable. Large cold-cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs) have been produced in the past and are still used today when shaped, long-life linear light sources are required. , miniature CCFLs were extensively used as backlights for computer and television liquid-crystal displays. CCFL lifespans vary in LCD televisions depending on transient voltage surges and temperature levels in usage environments.\n\nDue to its efficiency, CCFL technology has expanded into room lighting. Costs are similar to those of traditional fluorescent lighting, but with several advantages: the light emitted is , bulbs turn on instantly to full output and are also dimmable.\n\nIn systems using alternating current but without separate anode structures, the electrodes alternate as anodes and cathodes, and the impinging electrons can cause substantial localized heating, often to red heat. The electrode may take advantage of this heating to facilitate the thermionic emission of electrons when it is acting as a cathode. (\"Instant-start\" fluorescent lamps employ this aspect; they start as cold-cathode devices, but soon localized heating of the fine tungsten-wire cathodes causes them to operate in the same mode as hot-cathode lamps.)\n\nThis aspect is problematic in the case of backlights used for LCD TV displays. New energy-efficiency regulations being proposed in many countries will require variable backlighting; variable backlightling also improves the perceived contrast range, which is desirable for LCD TV sets. However, CCFLs are strictly limited in the degree to which they can be dimmed, both because a lower plasma current will lower the temperature of the cathode, causing erratic operation, and because running the cathode at too low a temperature drastically shortens the life of the lamps. Much research is being directed to this problem, but high-end manufacturers are now turning to high-efficiency white LEDs as a better solution.\n\n\n\"Notes\"\n\n\"Citations\"\n"}
{"id": "8629097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8629097", "title": "Common species", "text": "Common species\n\nCommon species and uncommon species are designations used in ecology to describe the population status of a species. Commonness is closely related to abundance. Abundance refers to the frequency with which a species is found in controlled samples; in contrast, species are defined as common or uncommon based on their overall presence in the environment. A species may be locally abundant without being common.\n\nHowever, \"common\" and \"uncommon\" are also sometimes used to describe levels of abundance, with a common species being less abundant than an abundant species, while an uncommon species is more abundant than a rare species.\n\nCommon species are frequently regarded as being at low risk of extinction simply because they exist in large numbers, and hence their conservation status is often overlooked. While this is broadly logical, there are several cases of once common species being driven to extinction such as the passenger pigeon and the Rocky Mountain locust, which numbered in the billions and trillions respectively before their demise. Moreover, a small proportional decline in a common species results in the loss of a large number of individuals, and the contribution to ecosystem function that those individuals represented. A recent paper argued that because common species shape ecosystems, contribute disproportionately to ecosystem functioning, and can show rapid population declines, conservation should look more closely at how the trade-off between species extinctions and the depletion of populations.\n\n"}
{"id": "49318590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49318590", "title": "Consortium for Energy Efficiency", "text": "Consortium for Energy Efficiency\n\nThe Consortium for Energy Efficiency (CEE) is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization that promotes the adoption of energy efficient products and services. CEE specifications are referenced by the United States Department of Energy and by the efficiency programs of many natural gas and electric utilities in the United States and Canada. The organization's Annual Industry Report documents the efficiency industry's US$8 billion in annual expenditures.\n\nCEE influences the market for efficient products and services through 17 initiatives covering the residential, commercial and industrial sectors; Product examples include space heating, refrigeration lighting, and industrial water treatment. These initiatives are voluntarily adopted by CEE members—such as utility efficiency programs—to establish common levels for high efficiency equipment. Member organizations implement initiatives through rebates, technical assistance, or other efforts in their service territories, states, or provinces. CEE also publishes Qualified Product Lists of equipment meeting high levels of efficiency performance. Some equipment criteria are specifically cited by US law for energy-related federal tax credits.\n\nSince 2000, CEE has conducted the Household ENERGY STAR Survey, identifying the ENERGY STAR program as one of the most recognized brands among US consumers.\n\nAccording to the organization's 2013 IRS Form 990, membership dues represented US$2,533,118 (64%) of annual revenue. CEE received significant additional funding through its partnerships with the US Environmental Protection Agency, the US Department of Energy, and Natural Resources Canada. Founded in 1991, CEE members consist of more than 100 natural gas and electric utilities, 10 efficiency organizations and state agencies, and 4 DOE national laboratories.\n\nThe CEE Annual Industry Report provides funding information and program activities for natural gas and electric demand side management. The 2014 study identified US$7.6 billion in investment in the US and Canada, and detailed expenditures by customer class and state. The report indicated an increase in program budgets from US$4.4 billion in 2008 to US$7.3 billion in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "51779233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51779233", "title": "Cosmic wind", "text": "Cosmic wind\n\nCosmic wind is a powerful cosmic force that can push interstellar dust clouds of low density into intergalactic space. Although it easily pushes low density gas and dust clouds, it can not easily push high density clouds. As the cosmic winds start to push the clouds, they start to separate and start looking like taffy being pulled apart. It has a primary composition of photons ejected from large stars and sometimes thermal energy from exploding stars. It can be caused by orbital motion of gas in the cluster of a galaxy, or can be ejected from a black hole. Because new stars and planets form from gases, the cosmic winds that push the gases away are preventing new stars from forming.\n"}
{"id": "2687944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687944", "title": "Delta Tauri", "text": "Delta Tauri\n\nThe Bayer designation Delta Tauri (δ Tau, δ Tauri) is shared by three star systems in the constellation Taurus. They are all members of the Hyades star cluster.\n\n\nBecause they are close to the ecliptic, these stars can be occulted by the Moon and, very rarely, by planets.\n\n"}
{"id": "94917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=94917", "title": "Djanggawul", "text": "Djanggawul\n\nIn Yolngu mythology, the Djanggawul are three siblings, two female and one male, who created the landscape of Australia and covered it with flora. They came from the island of Baralku, and were eventually eaten by Galeru. The two female Djanggawul made the world's sacred talismans by breaking off pieces of their vulvas. They included Bunbulama, a rain goddess.\n\nThe Djanggawul myth specifically concerned the Dua moiety of people, including about a third of the clans that lived in northeast Arnhem Land. The humans born of the two sisters are the ancestors of the Dua clans, the animals the sisters created are the totem animals of those clans, and the places the sisters visited are the clan shrines.\n\nThe mythology was staged in early contact times by the Dhuwa (\"Dua\") during several days of dancing, singing, and the manipulation of sacred emblems, on a stage of man-made holes and earth sculpture. The other aboriginal moiety of the region, the Yirritja (\"Yiritja\"), also participated in the dramatization of the Djanggawul myth, although some of the rites were accessible only to initiated Dua males. Oliver, following Berndt 1952, argues that the Djanggawul cycle is a dramatic enactment of Arnhem Land's monsoon cycle, which shaped aboriginal food procurement activities. Oliver says, \"This is not to say that a dramatic presentation was needed to familiarize the Arnhemlanders with the stark reality of their monsoon climate, and of its direct effects upon their lives; about that they were deeply aware. What the rituals did was to rationalize that climate in mythical terms (a reassuring thing in itself) and to provide them with a doubtless satisfying means of attempting to insure the regular recurrence of the rains. For no matter how discomforting the climate of the rainy season may have been ... the Arnhemlanders evidently recognized how essential it was for sustaining the only life they knew.\" (1989:169)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8489618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8489618", "title": "El Naddaha", "text": "El Naddaha\n\nEl Naddaha () (translated: the caller) is a modern legend concerning female naiad-like genie (ginneyya in Egyptian Arabic), who calls men to the Nile, most likely to their deaths. It is well known in the Nile Delta, the northern agricultural-based area of Egypt, typically north to Cairo, where the Nile is prominent.\n\nThe origin and place of the legend is unknown. The story became popular around the 1950s where Egypt was less urban than it is now, and people would spend more time closer to the Nile. Children would play by its shores after school had released them, and young men would chat there at night. It has become less popular at present though it's still familiar to the youth.\n\nEl Naddaha takes the form of stunningly beautiful woman who appears, as if by chance, to men walking by the Nile at night. The men are usually a pair. The creature calls one by his first name, rendering him speechless, hypnotized, and obedient to her voice which he blindly follows, while the other man is unaffected, and attempts to pull the other back. The creature calls in a soft, sleepy, hypnotizing voice until the second unaffected man succeeds at last in reviving the called man from his trance. The two run away as fast as they can, hearing her voice still echoing as they run.\n\nUsually the men do not get close enough to the Nile to get a glimpse of what the creature before they run away. In rare instances, they get a glimpse of her. She is described as being a very beautiful white female; tall, slender, with long flowing hair down her back. She stands steadily very near to the bank of the river, her hands placed at her sides, and wearing a loose, long semi-transparent dress. In many instances she's described as having a semi-transparent body and possibly a genie. Her voice is calm and soft, yet loud.\n\nIn rural Egypt, the creature may call for men in their homes by the shores of the Nile, who then eagerly attempt to leave home for her. In other tales, the affected man will not immediately try to follow; rather enter a state of disturbed distraction for a few nights before at least departing late at night. People in rural Egypt believe that a man who is called for by El Naddaha is doomed, curing him from the curse is impossible, and the process irreversible. Not a single instance has been recorded where a man is seen devoured by her. But many old local citizens believe she consumes or fiercely pulls her victims into the Nile and drowns them. \n\nAhmed Khaled Towfik in his \"The Legend of Al Naddaha\", says that a man who prevents the called man from reaching the creature by any means would be the next to be called.\n\n"}
{"id": "652195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652195", "title": "Emission standard", "text": "Emission standard\n\nEmission standards <section begin=overview />are the legal requirements governing air pollutants released into the atmosphere. Emission standards set quantitative limits on the permissible amount of specific air pollutants that may be released from specific sources over specific timeframes. They are generally designed to achieve air quality standards and to protect human life.<section end=overview />\n\nMany emissions standards focus on regulating pollutants released by automobiles (motor cars) and other powered vehicles. Others regulate emissions from industry, power plants, small equipment such as lawn mowers and diesel generators, and other sources of air pollution.\n\nAn emission performance standard is a limit that sets thresholds above which a different type of emission control technology might be needed. While emission performance standards have been used to dictate limits for conventional pollutants such as oxides of nitrogen and oxides of sulphur (NOx and SOx), this regulatory technique may be used to regulate greenhouse gasses, particularly carbon dioxide (CO). In the US, this is given in pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour (lbs. CO/MWhr), and kilograms CO/MWhr elsewhere.\n\nIn Canada, the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (CEPA 1999) transfers the legislative authority for regulating emissions from on-road vehicles and engines to Environment Canada from Transport Canada's Motor Vehicle Safety Act.\nThe Regulations align emission standards with the U.S. federal standards and apply to light-duty vehicles (e.g., passenger cars), light-duty trucks (e.g., vans, pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles), heavy-duty vehicles (e.g., trucks and buses), heavy-duty engines and motorcycles.\n\nThe United States has its own set of emissions standards that all new vehicles must meet. In the United States, emissions standards are managed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Under federal law, the state of California is allowed to promulgate more stringent vehicle emissions standards (subject to EPA approval), and other states may choose to follow either the national or California standards. California had produced air quality standards prior to EPA, with severe air quality problems in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. LA is the country's second-largest city, and relies much more heavily on automobiles and has less favorable meteorological conditions than the largest and third-largest cities (New York and Chicago).\n\nCalifornia's emissions standards are set by the California Air Resources Board, known locally by its acronym \"CARB\". By mid-2009, 16 other states had adopted CARB rules; given the size of the California market plus these other states, many manufacturers choose to build to the CARB standard when selling in all 50 states. CARB's policies have also influenced EU emissions standards.\n\nCalifornia is attempting to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles, but faces a court challenge from the federal government. The states are also attempting to compel the federal EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, which as of 2007 it has declined to do. On May 19, 2009 news reports indicate that the Federal EPA will largely adopt California's standards on greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nCalifornia and several other western states have passed bills requiring performance-based regulation of greenhouse gases from electricity generation.\n\nIn an effort to decrease emissions from heavy-duty diesel engines faster, the California Air Resources Board's Carl Moyer Program funds upgrades that are in advance of regulations.\n\nThe EPA has separate regulations for small engines, such as groundskeeping equipment. The states must also promulgate miscellaneous emissions regulations in order to comply with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards.\n\nThe European Union has its own set of emissions standards that all new vehicles must meet. Currently, standards are set for all road vehicles, trains, barges and 'nonroad mobile machinery' (such as tractors). No standards apply to seagoing ships or airplanes.\n\nEU Regulation No 443/2009 sets an average CO emissions target for new passenger cars of 130 grams per kilometre. The target was gradually phased in between 2012 and 2015. A target of 95 grams per kilometre will apply from 2021.\n\nFor light commercial vehicle, an emissions target of 175 g/km applies from 2017, and 147 g/km from 2020, a reduction of 16%.\n\nThe EU introduced Euro 4 effective January 1, 2008, Euro 5 effective January 1, 2010 and Euro 6 effective January 1, 2014. These dates had been postponed for two years to give oil refineries the opportunity to modernize their plants.\n\nSeveral local authorities in the UK have introduced Euro 4 or Euro 5 emissions standards for taxis and licensed private hire vehicles to operate in their area.\nEmissions tests on diesel cars have not been carried out during MOTs in Northern Ireland for 12 years, despite being legally required.\n\nAccording to the German federal automotive office 37.3% (15.4 million) cars in Germany (total car population 41.3 million) conform to the Euro 4 standard from Jan 2009.\n\nDue to rapidly expanding wealth and prosperity, the number of coal power plants and cars on China's roads is rapidly growing, creating an ongoing pollution problem. China enacted its first emissions controls on automobiles in 2000, equivalent to Euro I standards. China's State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA) upgraded emission controls again on July 1, 2004 to the Euro II standard. More stringent emission standard, National Standard III, equivalent to Euro III standards, went into effect on July 1, 2007. Plans were for Euro IV standards to take effect in 2010. Beijing introduced the Euro IV standard in advance on January 1, 2008, became the first city in mainland China to adopt this standard.\n\nFrom Jan 1, 2006, all new passenger cars with spark-ignition engines in Hong Kong must meet either Euro IV petrol standard, Japanese Heisei 17 standard or US EPA Tier 2 Bin 5 standard. For new passenger cars with compression-ignition engines, they must meet US EPA Tier 2 Bin 5 standard.\n\nBharat stage emission standards are emission standards instituted by the Government of India to regulate the output of air pollutants from internal combustion engine equipment, including motor vehicles. The standards and the timeline for implementation are set by the Central Pollution Control Board under the Ministry of Environment & Forests.\n\nThe standards, based on European regulations were first introduced in 2000. Progressively stringent norms have been rolled out since then. All new vehicles manufactured after the implementation of the norms have to be compliant with the regulations. By 2014, the country was under a combination of Euro 3 and Euro 4-based norms, with Euro 4 standards partly implemented in 13 major cities. As of April 2017, the entire country was under BS IV norms, which is based on Euro 4. It is planned that manufacture and registration of BS IV vehicles will be ceased, by April 2020 and June 2020, respectively. Skipping Euro 5, BS VI (based on Euro 6) will be introduced across the country by the April 1, 2020.\n\n Background \n\nStarting June 10, 1968, the Japanese Government passed the () which regulated all sources of air pollutants. As a result of the 1968 law, dispute resolutions were passed under the 1970 (). As a result of the 1970 law, in 1973 the first installment of four sets of new emissions standards were introduced. Interim standards were introduced on January 1, 1975 and again for 1976. The final set of standards were introduced for 1978. While the standards were introduced they were not made immediately mandatory, instead tax breaks were offered for cars which passed them. The standards were based on those adopted by the original US Clean Air Act of 1970, but the test cycle included more slow city driving to correctly reflect the Japanese situation. The 1978 limits for \"mean emissions\" during a \"Hot Start Test\" of CO, hydrocarbons, and NOx were of CO, of HC, and of NOx respectively. Maximum limits are of CO, of HC, and of NOx. The \"10 - 15 Mode Hot Cycle\" test, used to determine individual fuel economy ratings and emissions observed from the vehicle being tested, use a specific testing regime.\n\nIn 1992, to cope with NOx pollution problems from existing vehicle fleets in highly populated metropolitan areas, the Ministry of the Environment adopted the “()”, called in short The Motor Vehicle NOx Law. The regulation designated a total of 196 communities in the Tokyo, Saitama, Kanagawa, Osaka and Hyogo Prefectures as areas with significant air pollution due to nitrogen oxides emitted from motor vehicles. Under the Law, several measures had to be taken to control NOx from in-use vehicles, including enforcing emission standards for specified vehicle categories.\n\nThe regulation was amended in June 2001 to tighten the existing NOx requirements and to add PM control provisions. The amended rule is called the “Law Concerning Special Measures to Reduce the Total Amount of Nitrogen Oxides and Particulate Matter Emitted from Motor Vehicles in Specified Areas”, or in short the Automotive NOx and PM Law.\n\n\nThe NOx and PM Law introduces emission standards for specified categories of in-use highway vehicles including commercial goods (cargo) vehicles such as trucks and vans, buses, and special purpose motor vehicles, irrespective of the fuel type. The regulation also applies to diesel powered passenger cars (but not to gasoline cars).\n\nIn-use vehicles in the specified categories must meet 1997/98 emission standards for the respective new vehicle type (in the case of heavy duty engines NOx = 4.5 g/kWh, PM = 0.25 g/kWh). In other words, the 1997/98 new vehicle standards are retroactively applied to older vehicles already on the road. Vehicle owners have two methods to comply:\n\n\nVehicles have a grace period, between 8 and 12 years from the initial registration, to comply. The grace period depends on the vehicle type, as follows:\n\nFurthermore, the regulation allows fulfillment of its requirements to be postponed by an additional 0.5-2.5 years, depending on the age of the vehicle. This delay was introduced in part to harmonize the NOx and PM Law with the Tokyo diesel retrofit program.\n\nThe NOx and PM Law is enforced in connection with Japanese vehicle inspection program, where non-complying vehicles cannot undergo the inspection in the designated areas. This, in turn, may trigger an injunction on the vehicle operation under the Road Transport Vehicle Law.\n\nSince January 2012 vehicles which do not comply with Euro 6 emission values are not allowed to be imported to Israel.\n\nMost of the time Turkey follows EU legislations one step behind, but currently Euro6 for new types of light duty and heavy duty commercial vehicles, and also for passenger cars.\n\nSouth Africa’s first clean fuels programme was implemented in 2006 with the banning of lead from petrol and the reduction of sulphur levels in diesel from 3 000 parts per million (ppm) to 500ppm, along with a niche grade of 50ppm.\n\nThe Clean Fuels 2 standard, expected to begin in 2017, includes the reduction of sulphur to 10ppm; the lowering of benzene from 5 percent to 1 percent of volume; the reduction of aromatics from 50 percent to 35 percent of volume; and the specification of olefins at 18 percent of volume.\n\nAustralian emission standards are based on European regulations for light-duty and heavy-duty (heavy goods) vehicles, with acceptance of selected US and Japanese standards. The current policy is to fully harmonize Australian regulations with United Nations (UN) and Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) standards. In November 2013, the first stage of the stringent Euro 5 emission standards for light vehicles was introduced, which includes cars and light commercial vehicles. The development of emission standards for highway vehicles and engines is coordinated by the National Transport Commission (NTC) and the regulations—Australian Design Rules (ADR)—are administered by the Department of Infrastructure and Transport.\n\nAll new vehicles manufactured or sold in the country must comply with the standards, which are tested by running the vehicle or engine in a standardized test cycle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1303857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303857", "title": "Energy liberalisation", "text": "Energy liberalisation\n\nEnergy liberalisation refers to the liberalisation of energy markets, with specific reference to electricity generation markets, by bringing greater competition into electricity and gas markets in the interest of creating more competitive markets and reductions in price by privatisation. As the supply of electricity is a natural monopoly, this entails complex and costly systems of regulation to enforce a system of competition.\n\nA strong drive for liberalisation occurred in European Union energy markets at the turn of the millennium, directed by European Commission directives favouring market liberalisation promulgated in 1996, 2003, and 2009. These programmes were supported with the interest of increasing the interconnectedness of European energy markets and building the common market. Similar initiatives, to varying degrees, have been pursued in nations around the world, such as Argentina, Chile, and the United States.\n\nA standard model for electricity liberalisation is the \"British model\", a reform plan of which consists of six reforms: (1) creation of a competitive market for electricity, (2) the breakup of monopolized supply such that each consumer can select their provider, (3) separation of network maintenance from generation, (4) separation of direct supply from the generation of electricity, (5) creation of an incentive structure to set market prices in monopolistic competition, and (6) the privatisation of formerly state-owned assets. It was implemented under the Thatcher years as part of a mass privatisation campaign of many of the industries nationalised by previous Labour governments in the preceding decades. The risks involved for both generators and distributors have led to vertical re-integration.\n\nThe main benefit of liberalisation comes from the increased competition afforded to the market. This increases the availability and distribution of energy in supply situations by building transparent price signals and diversifying the production of electricity between gas-turbine technologies to nuclear energy. It has also led to the elimination of unnecessary overhead supply in formerly nationalised markets, allowing for capital resources to be utilised more effectively on things such as network infrastructure instead of maintaining idle power stations. These increases in efficiency have led to lower prices paid by consumers in nations, such as the United Kingdom, which have more heavily pursued deregulation.\n\nThe creation of pooled energy sources per the British model and other systems adopted in Chile and Texas have led to greater demand price-response, allowing for the more efficient use of electricity and increasing the response of consumers to prices so fewer costs are afforded to them. Furthermore, the greater interconnectedness of networks has allowed for markets to be more able to respond to peak energy demand and thereby increase the security of energy networks.\n\nBy increasing price-response, providing for more efficient companies, and increasing the visibility of price signals, governments have also been able to reduce the pollution from fossil-fuel power stations by concurrently securing greater environmental protections. Further progress has been made in shaving overcapacity such that less emissions are emitted whilst still maintaining energy security and building the transmission infrastructure necessary to better exploit wind and solar resources.\n\nLiberalisation of electricity tends to substantially benefit large consumers (mainly industrial users), but benefits for domestic consumers compared with a public monopoly or a regulated private monopoly are questionable, as liberalisation has been shown to pass on supply costs onto consumers. There are also doubts over whether the system can ensure long-term security of supply through providing sufficient incentives to begin building generation capacity in time for when it is needed, an issue which has started to plague Britain in the mid-2010s as spare capacity has decreased significantly to just over 1.2 percent in 2015.\n\nFurthermore, the experience of electricity liberalisation in developing countries has proven problematic, as many large multinationals withdrew support for power plant construction projects in the start of the 21st century, leaving countries such as Argentina, Colombia, Chile, and Uganda to pick up the bill for the expansion of their electric networks. The privatisation of electricity favoured by liberal economists mirroring the British model have also led to increased expenditure on advertising and power switching incentives for consumers.\n\nThe nature of the natural monopoly coming from electricity generation is also an issue which has gone unaddressed. Because of the monopolistic competition inherent to the energy market, there are significant issues with collusion by firms to raise prices. To prevent these issues as well as those associated with direct intervention to build new generation capacity, governments have had to step in to further regulate and build such capacity directly, effectively defeating the point of liberalisation. These issues have been compounded with growing geopolitical instability in Eastern Europe and concerns over gas pipelines in Ukraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "25733690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25733690", "title": "Engineered bamboo", "text": "Engineered bamboo\n\nEngineered bamboo is a low cost product manufactured from bamboo. It is designed to be a replacement for wood or engineered wood, but is used only when high load bearing strength is not required because building standards for this type of use have not been agreed by regulatory bodies. Engineered bamboo comes in several different forms, including bamboo scrimber and laminated bamboo, which has three times the structural capacity as normal timber and is defined and regulated by the ASTM International Standards.\n\nEngineered bamboo has been used as paneling, vehicle beds, concrete formworks, lightweight building construction and even for shelters after the 2004 tsunami. In comparison to the woods that have been traditionally used, a number of benefits and drawbacks have been identified. Lower cost, especially when replacing wood that would otherwise have been imported, is a key advantage. Further benefits include greater hardness and shape retention, especially in high temperatures.\n\nHowever, bamboo is not as resilient as most woods and will decay more rapidly than other woods if not treated with preservatives.\n\nNew building methods have had to be developed for engineered bamboo as its properties are sufficiently different, and make normal wood-working methods used with (non-engineered) bamboo unsuitable.\n\nIn order to overcome the typical loss of strength bamboo incurs when bending takes place post-harvest, an alternative method to overcome this has been developed.\n\nPre-harvest bending of the bamboo stems in zig-zags, allows the bamboo to later form a Warren truss.\n\nAlexander Vittouris has proposed a much simpler 2D S-bend shape, which — after harvesting, and in sufficient quantities — could be assembled into a variety of 3D shapes. The arboriculture technique used to make both shapes is similar to tree shaping, and result in parts similar to knee (construction).\n"}
{"id": "74244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74244", "title": "Enrico Mattei", "text": "Enrico Mattei\n\nEnrico Mattei (April 29, 1906 – October 27, 1962) was an Italian public administrator. After World War II he was given the task of dismantling the Italian Petroleum Agency Agip, a state enterprise established by the Fascist regime. Instead Mattei enlarged and reorganized it into the National Fuel Trust, \"Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi\" (ENI). Under his direction ENI negotiated important oil concessions in the Middle East as well as a significant trade agreement with the Soviet Union which helped break the oligopoly of the 'Seven Sisters' that dominated the mid 20th century oil industry. He also introduced the principle whereby the country that owned exploited oil reserves received 75% of the profits.\nMattei, who became a powerful figure in Italy, was a Christian Democrat, and a member of parliament from 1948 to 1953. Mattei made ENI a powerful company, so much so that Italians called it \"the state within the state.\" He died in a plane crash in 1962, likely caused by a bomb in the plane organized by the British secret service. The unsolved death of Mattei has obsessed Italy for years and was the subject of an award-winning film \"The Mattei Affair\" by Francesco Rosi in 1972.\n\nEnrico Mattei was born in Acqualagna, in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, Marche, as the second of five children of Antonio Mattei (a \"carabiniere\" – a member of the Italian national gendarmerie) and Angela Galvani. In 1923, he became an apprentice in the tannery industry in Matelica. His career was rapid; from factory hand he quickly moved on to become a chemical assistant and then to laboratory chief at the age of 21. After his military service he became the tannery owner’s chief assistant. However, the economic crisis at the end of the 1920s made business going from bad to worse until the tannery closed.\n\nMattei moved to Milan where he worked as a sales representative for foreign companies in tanning dyes and solvents. In 1931 he became a member of the National Fascist Party () created by Benito Mussolini but was not active in politics. Subsequently he set up a factory producing oil-based emulsifiers for the tanning and textile industries with his brother and sister. In 1934 he founded \"Industria Chimica Lombarda\" and two years later, in 1936, he married Greta Paulas, in Vienna. After acquiring an accountancy qualification, he enrolled at Università Cattolica in Milan.\n\nIn May 1943 he met the Christian Democrat leader Giuseppe Spataro, who introduced him into anti-Fascist circles in Milan against the Fascist regime of Mussolini. After July 25, 1943, when Mussolini was forced to resign, Mattei joined a partisan group of the Italian resistance movement in the mountains around Matelica, supplying them with weapons. He was able to join the resistance, despite suspicion over his former membership of the Fascist Party. His role was rather marginal, concentrating mainly on administering and organising activities. After a number of roundups he escaped to Milan.\n\nImpressed by his organisational and military skills, the Christian Democrats put him in command of their partisan forces. On October 26, 1944 he was captured in Milan, along with others, at the Christian Democrats’ secret headquarters in Milan. Detained at the military barracks in Como, he was able to escape on December 3, 1944, taking advantage of a confusion caused by a short circuit which he himself may have engineered. Mattei participated in the North Italian military command of the National Liberation Committee ( - CLN) on behalf of the Christian Democrats. He was decorated by the United States with the Silver Star.\n\nIn 1945, the National Liberation Committee appointed him to the leadership of Agip (Azienda Generale Italiana Petrolio - General Italian Oil Company), the national oil company created by the Fascists, with instructions to close it as soon as possible. Mattei, instead, worked hard to restructure the company and transform it into one of the nation's most important economic assets.\n\nIn 1949 Mattei made an astonishing public announcement: the soil of the Po Valley in Northern Italy was rich in oil and methane, and Italy would solve all its energy needs using its own resources. Through the Italian press, he then encouraged the idea that the nation (still suffering from the consequences of defeat in World War II), would soon become rich. Agip's financial value immediately grew in the Stock Exchange markets, and the company (owned by the State, but operating as a private company) became at once solid and important. The reality was a little different: in the territory of Cortemaggiore, in the Valley of Po, a certain amount of methane had been found together with a small quantity of oil.\n\nMattei’s strategy was to use natural gas to support the development of a national industry in Northern Italy, sustaining the postwar boom known as the \"Italian economic miracle.\" The gas was not a mere substitute for imported oil, but a cheaper and more functional substitute for imported coal which the growing industrial activities relied on. High profits from natural gas sales were plowed back into exploration, production, the expansion of pipelines, and the acquisition of new customers.\n\nAgip obtained an exclusive concession for gas and oil exploration within the national territory, and was able to retain the profits. Political views were divided: the leftists supporting him, and the conservatives (together with the industrialists), opposing him. At this time Mattei is alleged to have widely used unofficial financial resources of Agip for extensive bribery, especially of politicians and journalists. He used to say of political parties: \"I use them like I would use a taxi: I sit in, I pay for the trip, I get out\". Agip gained control of hundreds of companies in all economic fields in the country. Mattei paid great attention to the press, and Agip soon took possession of several newspapers and two agencies.\n\nIn 1953 a law created the ENI, Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi, into which Agip was merged. Mattei was initially its president, then also the administrator and the general director. In practice, Eni was Mattei and Mattei was Eni.\n\nWhen it became apparent that the domestic resource base would not be sufficient to meet the Italy’s growing energy demand, Mattei recognized the need to secure foreign supplies. Driven by his ambition to make ENI a player on par with the Exxons and Totals of the world, Mattei expanded abroad and turned his attention to the international oil markets. He invented (or at least, used to tell very often) the story of the little cat: \"A little cat arrives where a few big dogs are eating in a pot. The dogs attack him and toss him away. We Italians are like that little cat: in that pot there is oil for everybody, but someone does not want to let us get close to it.\"\n\nThis kind of fable made Mattei extremely popular in the economically poor Italy of the time, and he gained the popular support that was needed to gain political support. To break the oligopoly of the 'Seven Sisters' (a term he coined to refer to the dominant oil companies of the mid-20th century), Mattei initiated agreements with the poorest countries of the Middle East and countries of the former soviet bloc as well. Mattei visited Moscow in 1959, where he brokered an oil import deal with the Soviet Union in the middle of the Cold War over intense protests from NATO and the U.S. He also publicly supported independence movements against colonial powers, which allowed ENI to take advantage of postcolonial bitterness in places like Algeria. To opponents who charged that he was helping Communists and making Italy dependent on a capricious flow from the Soviet Union, Mattei answered that he bought from the cheapest sources.\n\nMattei forged agreements with Tunisia and Morocco, to which he offered a 50-50 partnership for extracting their oil, very different from the sort of concessions normally offered by the major oil companies. To Iran and Egypt he additionally offered that the risk involved in prospecting was entirely ENI's: if there was no petrol, the countries would not have to pay one cent. In 1957, with ENI already competing with giants like Esso or Shell, rumour has it that Mattei was secretly financing the independence movement against colonialist France in the Algerian War.\n\nIn 1960, after concluding the agreement with the Soviet Union and while negotiating with China, Mattei publicly declared that the American monopoly was over. The reaction was initially mild, and he (ENI) was invited to take part in the partition of the prospecting map in the Sahara. However, Mattei made the independence of Algeria a condition of his acceptance. No agreement would be subscribed until that event. As a consequence of his stance, Mattei was considered to have become a target of the French far-right terrorist organization OAS, opposed to Algeria's independence, which began sending him explicit threats.\n\nOn October 27, 1962 on a flight from Catania (Sicily) to the Milan Linate Airport, Mattei's jetplane, a Morane-Saulnier MS.760 Paris, crashed in the surroundings of the small village of Bascapè in Lombardy. The cause of the accident has been a mystery. There are strong indications that the crash was caused by a bomb hidden in the airplane. All three men on board were killed: Mattei, his pilot Irnerio Bertuzzi, and the American Time–Life Journalist William McHale. The inquiries officially declared that it was an accident. The Italian Minister of Defense, Giulio Andreotti, was responsible for the accident investigation.\n\nDuring his controversial tenure of ENI, Mattei had made many enemies. The U.S. National Security Council described him as an irritation and an obstacle in a classified report from 1958. The French could not forgive him for doing business with the pro-independence movement in Algeria. Responsibility for his death has been attributed to the CIA, to the French extreme-nationalist group, the OAS, and to the Sicilian Mafia.\n\nAccording to a 2001 TV documentary by Bernhard Pletschinger and Claus Bredenbrock, evidence was immediately destroyed at the crash site. Flight instruments were put into acid. On October 25, 1995, the Italian public service broadcaster RAI reported the exhumation of the human remains of Mattei and Bertuzzi. Metal debris deformed by an explosion was found in the bones. There is speculation that the fuse of an explosive device was triggered by the mechanism of the landing gear. In 1994 the investigations were reopened and in 1997 a metal indicator and a ring were further analyzed by Professor Firrao of Politecnico di Torino and explosion tracks were found. Based on this evidence the episode was reclassified by the judge as homicide, but with perpetrator(s) unknown.\n\nNot trusting the Sifar (Italian secret service), even though it was full of his loyal supporters, Mattei constituted a sort of personal security guard made of former partisans, ENI staff by whom he felt protected.\n\nOther facts on the crash:\n\nEnrico Mattei is a controversial figure in Italian 20th century history. Mattei made ENI a powerful company, so much so that Italians dub it \"the state within the state.\" Some describe him as a sort of paladin, a nationalist, while others point to his hunger for power, and his cold calculating nature.\n\nMattei coined the term \"Seven Sisters\" to refer to the dominant oil companies of the mid-20th century. In 2000, the Trans-Mediterranean Pipeline, a natural gas pipeline from Algeria via Tunisia to Sicily and thence to mainland Italy, was named after Enrico Mattei. ENI named a research institute after Mattei. The \"Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei\" (FEEM) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan research institution devoted to the study of sustainable development and global governance. FEEM’s mission is to improve the quality of decision-making in public and private spheres.\n\n"}
{"id": "22344148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22344148", "title": "Flora of Tubuai", "text": "Flora of Tubuai\n\nThis is a list of the flora of the Tubuai, an island in French Polynesia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1038227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1038227", "title": "Forearc", "text": "Forearc\n\nA forearc is the region between an oceanic trench and the associated volcanic arc. Forearc regions are found at convergent margins, and include any accretionary wedge and forearc basin that may be present. Due to tectonic stresses as one tectonic plate rides over another, forearc regions are sources for great thrust earthquakes \n\nDuring subduction, an oceanic plate is thrust below another tectonic plate, which may be oceanic or continental. Water and other volatiles in the down-going plate cause flux melting in the upper mantle, creating magma that rises and penetrates the overriding plate, forming a volcanic arc. The weight of the down-going slab flexes the down-going plate creating an oceanic trench. The area between the trench and the arc is the forearc region, and the area behind the arc (i.e. on the side away from the trench) is the back-arc region.\n\nInitial theories proposed that the oceanic trenches and magmatic arcs were the primary suppliers of the accretionary sedimentation wedges in the forearc regions. More recent discovery suggests that some of the accreted material in the forearc region is from a mantle source along with trench turbidites derived from continental material. This theory holds due to evidence of pelagic sediments and continental crust being subducted in processes known as sediment subduction and subduction erosion respectively.\n\nOver geological time there is constant recycling of the forearc deposits due to erosion, deformation and sedimentary subduction. The constant circulation of material in the forearc region (accretionary prism, forarc basin and trench) generates a mixture of igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary sequences. In general, there is an increase in metamorphic grade from trench to arc where highest grade (blueschist to eclogite) is structurally uplifted (in the prisms) compared to the younger deposits (basins). Forearc regions are also where ophiolites are emplaced should obduction occur, but such deposits are not continuous and can often be removed by erosion.\n\nAs tectonic plates converge, the closing of an ocean will result in the convergence of two landmasses, each of which is either an island arc or continental margin. When these two bodies collide, the result is orogenesis, at which time the underthrusting oceanic crust slows down. In early stages of arc-continent collision, there is uplift and erosion of the accretionary prism and forearc basin. In the later stages of collision, the forearc region may be sutured, rotated and shortened which can form syn-collisional folds and thrust belts.\n\nThe forearc region includes any forearc basin, outer-arc high, accretionary prism and the trench itself. The accretionary prism is located at the slope of the trench break where there is significantly decreased slope angle. Between the break and the magmatic arc, a sedimentary basin filled with erosive material from the volcanic arc and substrate can accumulate into a forearc basin which overlays the oldest thrust slices in the wedge of the forearc region.\n\nIn general, the forearc topography (specifically in the trench region) is trying to achieve an equilibrium between buoyancy and tectonic forces caused by subduction. Upward motion of the forearc is related to buoyancy forces and the downward motion is associated with the tectonic forcing which causes the oceanic lithosphere to descend. The relationship between surface slope and subduction thrust also plays a huge role in the variation of forearc structure and deformation. A subduction wedge can be classified as either stable with little deformation or unstable with pervasive internal deformation (see section on Models). Some common deformation in forearc sediments are synsedimentary deformation and olistostromes, such as that seen in the Magnitogorsk forearc region.\n\nThere are two models which characterize a forearc basin formation and deformation and are dependent on sediment deposition and subsidence (see figure). The first model is associated with a forearc basin formed with little to no sediment supply. Conversely, the second model is associated with sediment supply. Topographic depressions which are accertionary and nonaccretionary in nature will depend on the supply of oceanic plate sediments, continentally derived clastic material and orthogonal convergence rates. The accretionary flux (sediment supply in and out) also determines the rate at which the sedimentation wedges grow within the forearc.\n\nThe age of the oceanic crust along with the convergent velocity controls the coupling across the converging interface of the continental and oceanic crust. The strength of this coupling controls the deformation associated with the event and can be seen in the forearc region deformation signatures.\n\nThe intense interaction between the overriding and underthrusting plates in the forearc regions have shown to evolve strong coupling mechanisms which result in megathrust earthquakes such as the Tohoku-oki earthquake which occurred off the Pacific coast of Northeast Japan (Tian and Liu. 2013). These mega thrust earthquakes may be correlated with low values of heat flow generally associated with forearc regions. Geothermal data shows a heat flow of ~30–40 mW/m, which indicates cold, strong mantle.\n\nOne good example is the Mariana forearc, where scientists have done extensive research. In this setting there is an erosive margin and forearc slope which consists of 2 km high and 30 km diameter serpentine- mud volcanoes. The erosive properties of these volcanoes are consistent with the metamorphic grades (blueschists) expected for this region in the forearc. There is evidence from geothermal data and models which show the slab-mantle interface, levels of friction and the cool oceanic lithosphere at the trench. Other good examples are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1250001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250001", "title": "Geostationary ring", "text": "Geostationary ring\n\nThe geostationary ring is a volume segment around the geostationary orbit defined by variations in altitude and declination that can occur for uncontrolled objects left in the geostationary orbit.\n\nThe geostationary orbit is subject to orbit perturbations caused by anomalies in the gravitational field of the Earth, by the gravitational effects of Sun and Moon, and by solar radiation pressure.\n\nA precessional motion of the orbit plane is caused by the oblatedness of the Earth (formula_1), and the gravitational effects of Sun and Moon. This motion has a period of about 53 years. The two parameters describing the direction of the orbit plane in space, the right ascension of the ascending node, and the inclination are affected by this precession. The maximum inclination reached during the 53-year cycle is about 15 degrees. Therefore, the definition of the geostationary ring foresees a declination range from -15 degrees to +15 degrees.\n\nOn the other hand, solar radiation pressure induces an eccentricity that leads to a variation of the orbit radius by ± 75 kilometers in some cases.\n\nThis leads to the definition of the geostationary ring as being a segment of space around the geostationary orbit that ranges from 75 km below GEO to 75 km above GEO and from -15 degrees to 15 degrees declination.\n"}
{"id": "16332360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16332360", "title": "Homocline", "text": "Homocline\n\nIn structural geology, a homocline or homoclinal structure (from old  = same, cline = inclination), is a geological structure in which the layers of a sequence of rock strata, either sedimentary or igneous, dip uniformly in a single direction having the same general inclination in terms of direction and angle. A homocline can be associated with either one limb of a fold, the edges of a dome, the coast-ward tilted strata underlying a coastal plain, slice of thrust fault, or a tilted fault block. When the homoclinal strata consists of alternating layers of rock that vary hardness and resistance to erosion, their erosion produces either cuestas, homoclinal ridges, or hogbacks depending on the angle of dip of the strata. On a topographic map, the landfroms associated with homoclines exhibit nearly parallel elevation contour lines that show a steady change in elevation in a given direction. In the subsurface, they characterize by parallel structural contour lines.\n\nUnicline and Uniclinal are obsolete and currently uncommon terms that are defined and have been used by geologists and geomorphologists in an inconsistent and contradictory manner. They are terms that have been used in a mutually exclusive manner as a synonym for either a homocline or monocline depending the author. The meaning of this term has been further confused by Grabau, who redefined \"uniclinal,\" not as a geological structure, but as a general term for ridges produced by erosion of anticlines.\n\nThe erosion of tilted sequences of either stratified sedimentary or igneous rock, homoclines, of alternating resistance to erosion produce distinctive landforms that form a gradational continuum from cuestas through homoclinal ridges to hogbacks. Less resistant beds are preferentially eroded creating valleys that lie between ridges created by the erosion of more resistant beds. For example, the erosion of homoclines consisting of resistant beds of either limestone, sandstone, or both interbedded with weaker, less resistant beds of either shale, siltstone, marl, or combination of them will produce either cuestas, homoclinal ridges, or hogbacks depending on the angle of dip of the strata. The greater the difference in the resistance to erosion, the more pronounced the structural control and relief between valley and ridge crest.\n\nAccording to Whitney in 1890 and Kelley in 1955, Charles Darwin used the term \"uniclinal\" prior to 1843 to describe to strata dipping uniformly in one direction. Later in 1843, Rogers and Rogers created the term \"monocline\" and used it to describe beds dipping uniformly in one direction within the Appalachian Mountains. However, starting with Powell in 1873, geologists also used \"monocline\" to specifically described a step-like fold in otherwise uniformly dipping strata while other geologists still used it to describe beds dipping uniformly in one direction. Thus, the term \"monocline\" was used to describe both beds dipping in one direction and a one-limbed flexure with different authors making incompatible distinctions between them. Because of this confused usage of \"monocline\", Daly formally introduced the term \"homocline\" and in 1915 and 1916 defined it in its current usage and redefined \"monocline\" as a one-limbed flexure as it is currently used.\n"}
{"id": "3236678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3236678", "title": "Hudson Seaway", "text": "Hudson Seaway\n\nThe Hudson Seaway was a major seaway of North America during the Cretaceous Period some 75 million years ago. It is named after the Hudson Bay, which currently occupies much of its extent. Although not as extensive as the Western Interior Seaway, which divided North America into eastern and western landmasses (Appalachia and Laramidia, respectively), the Hudson Seaway had major impacts on climate and migration routes by dividing the eastern half of the continent into two (Appalachia and Franklinia). Greenland was more permanently separated, by the foundered rift that created the Labrador Seaway.\n\n"}
{"id": "11461412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11461412", "title": "I-cell", "text": "I-cell\n\nI-cells also called inclusion cells are abnormal fibroblasts having a large number of dark inclusions in the cytoplasm of the cell (mainly in the central area). The inclusions are of various fats, proteins, carbohydrates, pigments and other insolubles. They are seen in mucolipidosis II.\n"}
{"id": "28502092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28502092", "title": "Ipas (organization)", "text": "Ipas (organization)\n\nIpas is a global non-profit organization that works to increase women's ability to exercise their sexual and reproductive rights, and to end deaths and injuries from unsafe abortion. Ipas's work is grounded in the belief that women everywhere must have the opportunity to determine their futures, care for their families and manage their fertility. Through local, national and global partnerships, they work to ensure that women receive safe, respectful and comprehensive abortion care, including counselling and contraception, to prevent future unwanted pregnancies.\n\nIpas works to improve women's access and right to safe abortion care and reproductive health services by:\n\n\n\n\nIn 2017, Ipas (Nigeria), called for a review of Nigeria's law criminalising abortion in the country. At a workshop covering Woman’s Reproductive Health and Rights in Abuja, Nigeria, Ipas's Country Director spoke out about the issue, saying \"Any law that does not recognise or reflect the true situation of the country is a dead law.\" foegal \n\nIpas was founded in 1973, following the passage of the Helms Amendment, which prohibits use of U.S. foreign aid to support abortion services overseas. Ipas began manufacturing and distributing manual vacuum aspiration (MVA) instruments in 1973. Ipas launched the postabortion family planning initiative in 1990. In 2003 Ipas created, defined and implemented the concept of \"woman-centered comprehensive abortion care\". Ipas University, a self-paced online learning site for reproductive health care providers, launched in 2009. Womancare Global, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ipas, also launched in 2009, to market and distribute the MVA instruments, as well as a number of other reproductive-health technologies. By 2010 Ipas had offices in 13 countries and serves 40 countries in Africa, Asia and the Americas.\n\n\"Not Yet Rain\" (2009) is a documentary film about abortion in Ethiopia, produced by filmmaker Lisa Russell and Ipas.\n\n"}
{"id": "885810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885810", "title": "Johannes Stöffler", "text": "Johannes Stöffler\n\nJohannes Stöffler (also \"Stöfler, Stoffler, Stoeffler\"; 10 December 1452 – 16 February 1531) was a German mathematician, astronomer, astrologer, priest, maker of astronomical instruments and professor at the University of Tübingen.\n\nJohannes Stöffler was born on 10 December 1452, in Justingen near Blaubeuren on the Swabian Alb. Having received his basic education at the Blaubeuren monastery school, he registered at the newly founded University of Ingolstadt on 21 April 1472, where he was consequently promoted Baccalaureus in September 1473 and Magister in January 1476. After finishing his studies he obtained the parish of Justingen where he, besides his clerical obligations, concerned himself with astronomy, astrology and the making of astronomical instruments, clocks and celestial globes. He conducted a lively correspondence with leading humanists - for example, Johannes Reuchlin, for whom he made an Equatorium and wrote horoscopes.\n\nIn 1499 he predicted that a deluge would cover the world on 20 February 1524. In 1507, at the instigation of Duke Ulrich I he received the newly established chair of mathematics and astronomy at the University of Tübingen, where he excelled in rich teaching and publication activities and finally was elected rector in 1522. By the time of his appointment he already enjoyed a virtual monopoly in ephemeris-making in collaboration with Jacob Pflaum, continuing the calculations of Regiomontanus through 1531, and then through 1551, the latter being published posthumously in 1531. His writing \"Elucidatio fabricae ususque astrolabii\", published in several editions, served astronomers and surveyors for a long time as a standard work. Philipp Melanchthon and Sebastian Münster rank among his most famous students. When a plague epidemic forced the division and relocation of his university to the surrounding countryside in 1530, Stöffler went to Blaubeuren and died there on 16 February 1531 of the plague. He was buried in the choir of the collegiate church (Stiftskirche) in Tübingen.\n\n\nThe lunar crater \"Stöfler\" (with one \"f\") was named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "4112140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4112140", "title": "Kalmyk Steppe", "text": "Kalmyk Steppe\n\nKalmuk Steppe, or Kalmyk Steppe is a steppe of approximately 100,000 km², bordering the northwest Caspian Sea, bounded by the Volga on the N.E., the Manych on the S.W. and the territory of the Don Cossacks on the N.W. The historic home to the Kalmuck or Kalmyk Tatars, it is in the Federal subject of Astrakhan Oblast.\n\nThe western Kalmuck Steppe occupied by the Ergeni hills, is deeply trenched by ravines and rises 300 and occasionally 630 ft. above the sea. It is built up of Tertiary deposits, belonging to the Sarmatian division of the Miocene period and covered with bess and black earth, and its escarpments represent the old shore-line of the Caspian. No Caspian deposits are found on or within the Ergeni hills. These hills exhibit the usual black earth flora, and they have a settled population.\n\nThe eastern part of the steppe is a plain, lying for the most part 30 to 40 ft. below the level of the sea and sloping gently towards the Volga. Post-Pliocene Aral-Caspian deposits, containing the usual fossils (\"Hydrobia\", \"Neritina\", eight species of \"Cardium\", two of \"Dreissena\", three of \"Adacna\" and \"Lithoglyphus caspius\"), attain thicknesses varying from 105 ft. to 7 or 10 ft., and disappear in places. Lacustrine and fluviatile deposits occur intermingled with the above. Large areas of moving sands exist near Enotayevsk, where high dunes or barkhans have been formed.\n\nA narrow tract of land along the coast of the Caspian, known as the “hillocks of Baer,” is covered with hillocks elongated from west to east, perpendicularly to the coast-line, the spaces between them being filled with water or overgrown with thickets of reed, \"Salix\", \"Ulmus campestris\", almond trees, &c. An archipelago of little islands is thus formed close to the shore by these mounds, which are backed on the N. and N.W. by strings of salt lakes, partly desiccated. Small streams originate in the Ergenis, but are lost as soon as they reach the lowlands, where water can only be obtained from wells. The scanty vegetation is a mixture of the flora of south-east Russia and that of the deserts of central Asia.\n\nAs of 1911, the steppe had an estimated population of 130,000 persons, living in over 27,700 kibitkas, or felt tents. There were many Buddhist monasteries. Part of the Kalmucks were settled (chiefly in the hilly parts), the remainder being nomads. Antony Beevor, in his 1998 book \"Stalingrad\", said that \"Russians from the north thought of [Kalmyk Steppe] as 'the end of the world'\". In 1943 the people were forcibly deported (see Kalmykia).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55605525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55605525", "title": "Karagöl Nature Park", "text": "Karagöl Nature Park\n\nKaragöl Nature Park () a nature park in Turkey\n\nIt is in the rural area of Menemen ilçe (district) of İzmir Province at on Yamanlar Mountains which are situated to the north of İzmir. Its distance to İzmir centrum is .The road although quite bended, offers splendid view of the gulf of İzmir.\n\nThe altitude of the park is . It surrounds a small crater lake named \"Karagöl\". The area of the park including the lake is [.\n"}
{"id": "610367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610367", "title": "Labrador Sea", "text": "Labrador Sea\n\nThe Labrador Sea (French: \"mer du Labrador\", Danish: \"Labradorhavet\") is an arm of the North Atlantic Ocean between the Labrador Peninsula and Greenland. The sea is flanked by continental shelves to the southwest, northwest, and northeast. It connects to the north with Baffin Bay through the Davis Strait. It has been described as a marginal sea of the Atlantic.\n\nThe sea formed upon separation of the North American Plate and Greenland Plate that started about 60 million years ago and stopped about 40 million years ago. It contains one of the world's largest turbidity current channel systems, the Northwest Atlantic Mid-Ocean Channel (NAMOC), that runs for thousands of kilometers along the sea bottom toward the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe Labrador Sea is a major source of the North Atlantic Deep Water, a cold water mass that flows at great depth along the western edge of the North Atlantic, spreading out to form the largest identifiable water mass in the World Ocean.\n\nThe Labrador Sea formed upon separation of the North American Plate and Greenland Plate that started about 60 million years ago (Paleocene) and stopped about 40 million years ago. A sedimentary basin, which is now buried under the continental shelves, formed during the Cretaceous. Onset of magmatic sea-floor spreading was accompanied by volcanic eruptions of picrites and basalts in the Paleocene at the Davis Strait and Baffin Bay.\n\nBetween about 500 BC and 1300 AD, the southern coast of the sea contained Dorset, Beothuk and Inuit settlements; Dorset tribes were later replaced by Thule people.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization defines the limits of the Labrador Sea as follows:\nOn the North: the South limit of Davis Strait [The parallel of 60° North between Greenland and Labrador].\n\nOn the East: a line from Cape St. Francis (Newfoundland) to Cape Farewell (Greenland).\n\nOn the West: the East Coast of Labrador and Newfoundland and the Northeast limit of the Gulf of St. Lawrence – a line running from Cape Bauld (North point of Kirpon Island, ) to the East extreme of Belle Isle and on to the Northeast Ledge (). Thence a line joining this ledge with the East extreme of Cape St. Charles (52°13'N) in Labrador.\nThe Labrador Sea is about deep and wide where it joins the Atlantic Ocean. It becomes shallower, to less than towards Baffin Bay (see ) and passes into the wide Davis Strait. A deep turbidity current channel system, which is about wide and long, runs on the bottom of the sea, near its center from the Hudson Strait into the Atlantic. It is called the Northwest Atlantic Mid-Ocean Channel (NAMOC) and is one of the world's longest drainage systems of Pleistocene age. It appears as a submarine river bed with numerous tributaries and is maintained by high-density turbidity currents flowing within the levees.\n\nThe water temperature varies between in winter and in summer. The salinity is relatively low, at 31–34.9 parts per thousand. Two-thirds of the sea is covered in ice in winter. Tides are semi-diurnal (i.e. occur twice a day), reaching .\n\nThere is an anticlockwise water circulation in the sea. It is initiated by the East Greenland Current and continued by the West Greenland Current, which brings warmer, more saline waters northwards, along the Greenland coasts up to the Baffin Bay. Then, the Baffin Island Current and Labrador Current transport cold and less saline water southward along the Canadian coast. These currents carry numerous icebergs and therefore hinder navigation and exploration of the gas fields beneath the sea bed. The speed of the Labrador current is typically , but can reach in some areas, whereas the Baffin Current is somewhat slower at about . The Labrador Current maintains the water temperature at and salinity between 30 and 34 parts per thousand.\n\nThe sea provides a significant part of the North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW) – a cold water mass that flows at great depth along the western edge of the North Atlantic, spreading out to form the largest identifiable water mass in the World Ocean. The NADW consists of three parts of different origin and salinity, and the top one, the Labrador Sea Water (LSW), is formed in the Labrador Sea. This part occurs at a medium depth and has a relatively low salinity (34.84–34.89 parts per thousand), low temperature () and high oxygen content compared to the layers above and below it. LSW also has a relatively low vorticity, i.e. the tendency to form vortices, than any other water in North Atlantic that reflects its high homogeneity. It has a potential density of 27.76–27.78 mg/cm relatively to the surface layers, meaning it is denser, and thus sinks under the surface and remains homogeneous and unaffected by the surface fluctuations.\n\nThe northern and western parts of the Labrador Sea are covered in ice between December and June. The drift ice serves as a breeding ground for seals in early spring. The sea is also a feeding ground for Atlantic salmon and several marine mammal species. Shrimp fisheries began in 1978 and intensified toward 2000, as well as cod fishing. However, the cod fishing rapidly depleted the fish population in the 1990s near the Labrador and West Greenland banks and was therefore halted in 1992. Other fishery targets include haddock, Atlantic herring, lobster and several species of flatfish and pelagic fish such as sand lance and capelin. They are most abundant in the southern parts of the sea.\n\nBeluga whales, while abundant to the north, in the Baffin Bay, where their population reaches 20,000, are rare in the Labrador Sea, especially since the 1950s. The sea contains one of the two major stocks of Sei whales, the other one being the Scotian Shelf. Also common are minke and bottlenose whales.\nThe Labrador duck was a common bird on the Canadian coast until the 19th century, but is now extinct. Other coastal animals include the Labrador wolf (\"Canis lupus labradorius\"), caribou (\"Rangifer\" spp.), moose (\"Alces alces\"), black bear (\"Ursus americanus\"), red fox (\"Vulpes vulpes\"), Arctic fox (\"Alopex lagopus\"), wolverine, snowshoe hare (\"Lepus americanus\"), grouse (\"Dendragapus\" spp.), osprey (\"Pandion haliaetus\"), raven (\"Corvus corax\"), ducks, geese, partridge and American wild pheasant.\n\nCoastal vegetation includes black spruce (\"Picea mariana\"), tamarack, white spruce (\"P. glauca\"), dwarf birch (\"Betula\" spp.), aspen, willow (\"Salix\" spp.), ericaceous shrubs (\"Ericaceae\"), cottongrass (\"Eriophorum\" spp.), sedge (\"Carex\" spp.), lichens and moss. Evergreen bushes of Labrador tea, which is used to make herbal teas, are common in the area, both on the Greenland and Canadian coasts.\n"}
{"id": "29214429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29214429", "title": "List of exoplanet firsts", "text": "List of exoplanet firsts\n\nThis is a list of exoplanet discoveries that were the first by several criteria, including:\n\nand others.\n\nThe choice of \"first\" depends on definition and confirmation, as below. The three systems detected prior to 1994 each have a drawback, with\nGamma Cephei b being unconfirmed until 2002; HD 114762 b is near the boundary of exoplanet / brown dwarf mass; while the \nPSR B1257+12 planets orbit a pulsar. This leaves 51 Peg b (discovered and confirmed 1995) as the first confirmed exoplanet around a normal star. \n\n"}
{"id": "25044229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25044229", "title": "List of glaciers in Greenland", "text": "List of glaciers in Greenland\n\nThis is a list of glaciers in Greenland. Details on the size and flow of some of the major Greenlandic glaciers are listed by Eric Rignot and Pannir Kanagaratnam (2006)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8716774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8716774", "title": "List of lakes named after people", "text": "List of lakes named after people\n\nThis is a list of lakes named after people. It details the name of the lake or reservoir, its location and eponym.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38343309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38343309", "title": "List of mountains of the Alps (2500–2999 m)", "text": "List of mountains of the Alps (2500–2999 m)\n\nThis page contains a table listing by elevation all 514 mountains of the Alps that are between 2500 and 3000m m high and have a topographic prominence of at least . The list is a continuation of the List of mountains of the Alps above 3000 m, which page contains an introduction with statistics and an explanation of the criteria. The list is continued down to 2000 m elevation on this page.\n\nThe table is continued here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35941091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35941091", "title": "Main Uralian Fault", "text": "Main Uralian Fault\n\nThe Main Uralian Fault (MUF) runs north–south through the middle of the Ural Mountains for over 2,000 km. It separates both Europe from Asia and the three, or four, western megazones of the Urals from the three eastern megazones: namely the Pre-Uralian Foredeep, West Uralian, and the Central Uralian to the west, and the Tagil-Magnitogorskian, East Uralian, and Transuralian to the east. The Russian Plate is often included as the fourth megazone to the west. On the west side of the fault the rocks represent the sediments of the eastern continental margin zone of the European Plate (Baltica). On the east the rocks are accreted oceanic and island arc basalts, ultramafics and volcanics as well as the sediments of the western continental margin zones of the Siberian craton (Angara Plate) on the north and the Kazakhstan craton on the south.\n\nThe Main Uralian Fault formed in the Riphean (early Neoproterozoic) in the breakup of the supercontinent Rodinia as a rift valley between the Baltica and the Angara Plate (Siberian craton). As these two plates pulled apart eventually a mid-ocean ridge formed. The ridge was of basic (basalt) and ultramafic material. Some 500 million years later, in the Silurian, a subduction zone formed on the western margin of the Angara Plate, which at the time was on the western edge of Gondwana, and the oceanic plate was subducted underneath the Angara Plate, accreting some of the basalts and ultramafics onto the Angara Plate. Sialic sediments were metamorphosed, melted and intruded into the rocks above as granites. By the early Carboniferous the oceanic plates were completed subducted and the eastern margin of Baltica, then on the eastern edge of Laurussia began to collide with the western edge of Angara. In the south the western edge of Kazakhstania may have been pushed under Baltica. This collision in known generally as the Variscan orogeny, and specifically as to the Urals as the Uralian orogeny The collision lasted nearly 90 million years from the Carboniferous to the early Triassic. The MUF remained active as the plates ground against each other as Pangea was formed and the Ural Mountains were raised up.\n\nThere is seismic evidence that the Main Uralian Fault extends very deep, in excess of 15 km, into the crust and dips to the east as a result of the subduction zone that formed in the Silurian along the western margin of the Siberian craton. This is supported by evidence of a north-south magmatic axis in the southern Urals that runs through the East Uralian megazone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12882089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12882089", "title": "Maria Cacao", "text": "Maria Cacao\n\nMaria Cacao is the \"diwata\" or mountain goddess (the exact term is derived from Sanskrit word \"devata\" देवता) associated with Mount Lantoy in Argao, Cebu, Philippines. The Maria Cacao legend is a prominent example of the mountain-goddesses motiff in Philippine mythology, other prominent examples being Maria Makiling of Los Baños and Maria Sinukuan of Mount Arayat.\n\nThe original name of the Maria Cacao is unknown as it was not recorded before the Spanish subjugated her name in a bid to instill Roman Catholicisms into the natives. But it is widely assumed her name is not indigenous as 'Cacao' is an imported term that came from Latin America when the Spanish arrived. Additionally, the term 'Maria' was added by the Spanish to turn her into 'Catholic', in a bid to widen Spanish rule in southern Cebu. Like in Makiling and Sinukuan, it is assumed that Maria Cacao's mythology was present prior to Spanish arrival, with minor differences.\n\nThe basic form of the Maria Cacao legend is that whenever rains flood the river that comes from Mount Lantoy, or a bridge is broken, this is a sign that Maria Cacao and her husband \"Mangao\" have either traveled down the river in their golden ship so that they can export their crops, or traveled up the river on their way back. She is supposed to live inside a cave in the mountain and the Cacao plants outside it are supposed to be her plantation.\n\nOne contemporary evolution of the legend is its merger with another common Filipino mythological motif – that of soul-harvesting boats. The new stories suggest that borrowers who fail to pay their loans to the goddess would soon find themselves facing dire consequences, as Maria Cacao's boat comes to take their souls to the next world.\n\nA very specific variant of this new element of the myth was reported in Cagayan de Oro in the aftermath of Typhoon Sendong (Tropical Storm Washi), when there were reported sightings of a boat with a woman at the helm traveling along the river and offering to pick up passengers. These rumors were accompanied by a warning not to accept invitations to board the boat, because the woman was supposedly Maria Cacao \"collecting souls for the next world.\" In his regular newspaper column, anthropologist Michael Tan noted that this \"soul harvester\" function wasn't part of the prototypical myth, and associated the evolution of the myth with the social need to invent stories as a means of coping with disaster, creating a context for the sense of despair and, to some degree, offering a scapegoat for the situation.\n\nWhile the story is obviously mythical in nature, it is cited as evidence of how long the production of \"tableya\", has been going on in the area. \"Tableya\" is Cebuano for round, unsweetened chocolate tablets made from cacao beans. It is a crucial ingredient in the Filipino delicacies \"sikwate\" (hot chocolate) and champorado.\n"}
{"id": "22747088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22747088", "title": "Minimum orbit intersection distance", "text": "Minimum orbit intersection distance\n\nMinimum orbit intersection distance (MOID) is a measure used in astronomy to assess potential close approaches and collision risks between astronomical objects. It is defined as the distance between the closest points of the osculating orbits of two bodies. Of greatest interest is the risk of a collision with Earth. Earth MOID is often listed on comet and asteroid databases such as the JPL Small-Body Database. MOID values are also defined with respect to other bodies as well: Jupiter MOID, Venus MOID and so on.\n\nAn object is classified as a potentially hazardous object (PHO) – that is, posing a possible risk to Earth – if, among other conditions, its Earth MOID is less than 0.05 AU. For more massive bodies than Earth, there is a potentially notable close approach with a larger MOID; for instance, Jupiter MOIDs less than 1 AU are considered noteworthy since Jupiter is the most massive planet.\n\nA low MOID does not mean that a collision is inevitable as the planets frequently perturb the orbit of small bodies. It is also necessary that the two bodies reach that point in their orbits at the same time before the smaller body is perturbed into a different orbit with a different MOID value. Two Objects gravitationally locked in orbital resonance may never approach one another. Numerical integrations become increasingly divergent as trajectories are projected further forward in time, especially beyond times where the smaller body is repeatedly perturbed by other planets. MOID has the convenience that it is obtained directly from the orbital elements of the body and no numerical integration into the future is used.\n\nThe only object that has ever been rated at 4 on the Torino Scale (since downgraded), the Aten asteroid (99942) Apophis, has an Earth MOID of 0.000316 AU. This is not the smallest Earth MOID in the catalogues; many bodies with a small Earth MOID are not classed as PHO's because the objects are less than roughly 140 meters in diameter (or absolute magnitude, \"H\" < 22). Earth MOID values are generally more practical for asteroids less than 140 meters in diameter as those asteroids are very dim and often have a short observation arc with a poorly determined orbit. The only objects that have been detected and had their Earth-MOID calculated before Earth impact were the small asteroids and 2014 AA. was listed with a MOID of 0.00001 AU in the Minor Planet Center database, and is the smallest MOID calculated for an Apollo asteroid. It is even smaller at the more precise JPL Small Body Database (0.0000078 AU).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3123653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3123653", "title": "Moulin (geomorphology)", "text": "Moulin (geomorphology)\n\nA moulin or glacier mill is a roughly circular, vertical to nearly vertical well-like shaft within a glacier or ice sheet which water enters from the surface. The term is derived from the French word for mill. \n\nThey can be up to 10 meters wide and are typically found on ice sheets and flat areas of a glacier in a region of transverse crevasses. Moulins can reach the bottom of the glacier, hundreds of meters deep, or may only reach the depth of common crevasse formation (about 10–40 m) where the stream flows englacially. They are the most typical cause for the formation of a glacier cave.\n\nMoulins are parts of the internal structure of glaciers, that carry meltwater from the surface down to wherever it may go. Water from a moulin often exits the glacier at base level, sometimes into the sea, and occasionally the lower end of a moulin may be exposed in the face of a glacier or at the edge of a stagnant block of ice.\n\nWater from moulins may help lubricate the base of the glacier, affecting glacial motion. Given an appropriate relationship between an ice sheet and the terrain, the head of water in a moulin can provide the power and medium with which a tunnel valley may be formed. The role of this water in lubricating the base of ice sheets and glaciers is complex and it is implicated in accelerating the speed of glaciers and thus the rate of glacial calving.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1292393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1292393", "title": "Mount Banahaw", "text": "Mount Banahaw\n\nMount Banahaw (alternative spelling: Banahao or Banájao) is a potentially active volcano on Luzon in the Philippines. The three-peaked volcano complex is located between the provinces of Laguna and Quezon and is the tallest mountain in the CALABARZON region dominating the landscape for miles around.\n\nThe mountain is considered by many as a \"Holy mountain\", thus a \"bundok dambana\", and is popular among pilgrims along with mountain climbers. It is located in a protected area known as Mounts Banahaw–San Cristobal Protected Landscape covering of land.\n\nThe andesitic Banahaw volcano complex is composed of several mountains with Mount Banahaw, the largest with a maximum elevation of above mean sea level. The summit is topped by a and deep crater that is breached on the southern rim believed to have been caused by the 1730 eruption. Prior to 1730, a lake occupied the summit crater of Mount Banahaw. The resulting flood destroyed the town of Sariaya, Quezon located below the mountain.\n\n\n\nBanahaw is a traditional pilgrimage site for locals, believed by many as a \"Holy mountain\", a spiritually-charged location. The mountain and its environs are considered sacred by local residents; the water from its sacred springs are deemed \"holy water\" for allegedly having beneficial qualities, issuing forth from locations called \"puestos\" or \"holy sites\". These sites are unique natural features composed not only of springs, but also caves, streams and boulders; with names with biblical allusions, and shrines erected in, on or around them. These locations were allegedly revealed to a man named Agripino Lontoc by the \"Santong Boses\" or the \"Holy Voices\", which also gave the names to these places way back during the Spanish Colonial Era. Another one of this mountain is the adjacent Mount Banahaw de Lucbán.\n\nThe mountain is popular not only to pilgrims but also among mountain climbers being the closest over mountain from Manila. Hiking activity peaks during Holy Week each year, with climbers numbering to the thousands. At least four trails exist from Dolores, Sariaya, and other towns of Quezon located on its foothills. The most frequently used trails are the \"Cristalino\" and \"Tatlong Tangke\", taking an average of 9 and 5 hours, respectively. These two trails originate from Barangay Kinabuhayan in Dolores, and meet near the summit, which is actually the rim of the Banahaw caldera. On the summit are viewpoints, labeled as \"Durungawan\" I, II, and III, which are the usual destination for pilgrims and hikers. Other points of interest include the \"Kuweba ng Diyos Ama\" (Tagalog: Cave of God the Father) and the spring at Brgy. Kinabuhayan, said to have curative powers.\n\nDue to incessant climbing activity the mountain trails have become littered with trash. In March 2004, the Department of Environment and Natural Resources ordered a 5-year suspension of hiking activity in the mountains, covering the Dolores and Sariaya trails. Reopening was delayed was then scheduled to March 2012, but was further extended to February 2015.\n\nFrogs endemic to Mount Banahaw include \"Platymantis banahao\", \"Platymantis indeprensus\", \"Platymantis montanus\", \"Platymantis naomii\", and \"Platymantis pseudodorsalis\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555366", "title": "Mullard", "text": "Mullard\n\nMullard Limited was a British manufacturer of electronic components. The Mullard Radio Valve Co. Ltd. of Southfields, London, was founded in 1920 by Captain Stanley R. Mullard, who had previously designed thermionic valves for the Admiralty before becoming managing director of the Z Electric Lamp Co. The company soon moved to Hammersmith, London and then in 1923 to Balham, London. The head office in later years was Mullard House at 1–19 Torrington Place, Bloomsbury, now part of University College London.\n\nIn 1923, to meet the technical demands of the newly formed BBC, Mullard formed a partnership with the Dutch manufacturer Philips. The valves (vacuum tubes) produced in this period were named with the prefix PM, for Philips-Mullard, beginning with the PM3 and PM4 in 1926. Mullard finally sold all its shares to Philips in 1927. In 1928 the company introduced the first pentode valve to the British market.\n\nMullard opened a new manufacturing plant at Willow Lane, Mitcham, Surrey in 1929. A second building was added in 1936. Both buildings had a very distinctive flat roof construction and were very similar to those at Philips' headquarters in Eindhoven, Netherlands. Co-sited with the Mullard buildings was the manufacturing complex for Philips Radios. Mitcham was also home to the Mullard Application Laboratory.\n\nIn the late 1930s Mullard opened a new plant in Blackburn, Lancashire. By 1949 Mullard had produced a number of television sets, such as the MTS-521 and MTS-684. In 1951 Mullard was producing the LSD series of photographic flash tubes.\n\nMullard had factories in Southport and Simonstone, near Padiham both in Lancashire. The latter closed in 2004. There was also a sister factory at Belmont in Durham (closed in June 2005). Other factories included those at Fleetwood (closed in 1979) and Lytham St. Annes (closed in 1972). A feeder factory at Haydock closed in 1981. A small factory in Hove closed in the early 1970s.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Mullard manufactured the SAA5050, some of the earliest teletext decoding modules made in the UK.\n\nMullard owned semiconductor factories in Southampton and Stockport. Both sites were owned by NXP Semiconductors (formerly Philips Semiconductors). The Southampton site is now closed. The one in Hazel Grove, Stockport specialises in power semiconductor devices.\n\nThe first transistors produced by Mullard were the OC50 and OC51 point-contact types, which were not widely used. In 1953 Mullard moved to junction transistors, beginning with the plastic-cased OC10 series. These were followed by the glass-encapsulated OC43...47, OC70/71, and OC80 series (the output devices were metal encapsulated to facilitate heatsinking), which were produced in large numbers and copied by other companies, such as (another Philips subsidiary) and Siemens in Germany, and Amperex in the USA. RF transistors were the OC170 and OC171. All these were germanium PNP transistors. In 1964 the company produced a prototype electronic desktop calculator as a technology demonstrator for its transistors and cold cathode indicator tubes.\n\nIn 1957 Philips-Mullard helped to set up the Mullard Radio Astronomy Observatory (MRAO) at the University of Cambridge. In 1966 the Mullard Space Science Laboratory (MSSL) was opened near Dorking, Surrey as part of University College London. The Royal Society Mullard Award for young scientists and engineers was set up in 1967.\n\nPhilips continued to use the brand name \"Mullard\" in the UK until 1988. Mullard Research Laboratories in Redhill, Surrey then became Philips Research Laboratories. As of 2007, the Mullard brand has been revived by Sovtek, producing a variant of the ECC83 and EL34.\n\nThe Z Electric Lamp Co. continued business into the 1970s operating from premises in Thornton Heath, South London, manufacturing lamps of specialised design. However, it closed due to the recession in the mid 1970s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10484426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10484426", "title": "NORSAR", "text": "NORSAR\n\nNORSAR or Norwegian Seismic Array was established in 1968 as part of the Norwegian-US agreement for the detection of earthquakes and nuclear explosions. NORSAR was the first non-US site included in ARPANET in 1973. It was also a connection point for ARPANET to spread to England, and then to the rest of Europe. Since 1999, NORSAR has been an independent research foundation.\n\nLocated at Kjeller, north of Oslo, NORSAR runs and maintains seismic arrays in Norway and it is the designated Norwegian National Data Centre for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. NORSAR conducts basic seismological research, develops software and provides consultancy for the petroleum industry.\n"}
{"id": "10867172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10867172", "title": "National Parks Act 1980 (Malaysia)", "text": "National Parks Act 1980 (Malaysia)\n\nThe National Parks Act 1980 () is a Malaysian federal law that governs the creation and the maintenance national parks in Malaysia. It was created in 1980 during the controversy surrounding the protection of Endau Rompin forest complex. The act provides for the states to establish national parks to be administered by Department of Wildlife and National Parks under the federal government.\n\nDuring its passing, the debate on state and federal power was common. The states and in particular Johor within the context of that time did not agree to the act as it was seen as surrendering states' right to the federal government. This objection prevented the Endau and Rompin from being gazetted as a national park prior to the 1990s. The act still gives rights for the State Authority to vote sections of land can be preserved for maintenance of roads, airstrips, reservoirs, dams, and service buildings. \n\nThis Act shall not apply to Sabah and Sarawak and the State Parks of Kelantan, Pahang and Terengganu which together constitute the Taman Negara as described in the Schedule to the Taman Negara (Kelantan) Enactment [En. 14 of 1938] and in the First Schedules to the Taman Negara (Pahang) Enactment 1939 [En. 2 of 1938] and the Taman Negara (Terengganu) Enactment [En. 6 of 1358H].\nThe National Parks Act 1980, in its current form (1 January 2013), consists of 11 sections and no schedule (including 2 amendments), without separate Part.\n\nIn preservation of the lands, the State Authority has the right to request areas of reserved land to be placed under the control of the National Park committee. This establishment was created to protect wild life and objects of the environment while promoting education of conservation to the people of Malaysia. \n\nThe National Park Advisory Council was established to create a representative body for the National Parks. This would ensure different levels within the council to ensure different checks on committees. Positions include Chairman, State Secretary of each State where National Parks are located, Director General, Treasurer, representative of the Economic Planning Unit of the Prime Minister's Department, representative of the Tourist Development Corporation, and representative of the Department of Forestry. These positions will ensure the conservation and development of the National Park. \n\nAny land that is leased by the State Authorities are under the consideration of the National Park which can be used for the construction and maintenance or roads, airstrips, dams and reservoirs, hotels, rest houses, dwelling houses, buildings, works of public utility, and mining. Several restrictions do come with the general prohibition of mining within the National Park such as the contradiction of general interests to the State and the failure to have a license to mine. Although the land can be used for mining, there is general restrictions prohibiting the use of mining within the National Park. In order for mining to occur, the National Park must see a mining certificate or lease issued that grants rights to the passage. Without such, there will be implications due to the respect o the National Park Land. \n\nThe State Authority may still make regulations to the Act that will further the protection of the wildlife or land preservation. Acts include prohibition of killing, capturing wildlife, burning or cutting down vegetation within the National Park, or other regulations of misconduct that would harm the enjoyment of the National Park. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "34015321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34015321", "title": "Ocean disposal of radioactive waste", "text": "Ocean disposal of radioactive waste\n\nFrom 1946 through 1993, thirteen countries (fourteen, if the USSR and Russia are considered separately) used ocean disposal or ocean dumping as a method to dispose of nuclear/radioactive waste. The waste materials included both liquids and solids housed in various containers, as well as reactor vessels, with and without spent or damaged nuclear fuel. Since 1993, ocean disposal has been banned by international treaties. (London Convention (1972), Basel Convention, MARPOL 73/78)\n\nHowever, according to the United Nations, some companies have been dumping radioactive waste and other hazardous materials into the coastal waters of Somalia, taking advantage of the fact that the country had no functioning government from the early 1990s onwards. According to one official at the United Nations, this caused health problems for locals in the coastal region and posed a significant danger to Somalia's fishing industry and local marine life.\n\n\"Ocean floor disposal\" (or sub-seabed disposal)—a more deliberate method of delivering radioactive waste to the ocean floor and depositing it into the seabed—was studied by the UK and Sweden, but never implemented.\nData are from IAEA-TECDOC-1105. page 3-4\n\nData are from IAEA-TECDOC-1105. Summary of pages 27–120\n\nDisposal projects attempted to locate ideal dumping sites based on depth, stability and currents, and to treat, solidify and contain the waste. However, some dumping only involved diluting the waste with surface water, or used containers that imploded at depth. Even containers that survived the pressure could physically decay over time.\n\nThe countries involved — listed in order of total contributions measured in TBq (TBq=10 Becquerel) — were the USSR, the UK, Switzerland, the US, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Japan, Sweden, Russia, New Zealand, Germany, Italy and South Korea. Together, they dumped a total of 85,100 TBq (85.1x10 Bq) of radioactive waste at over 100 ocean sites, as measured in initial radioactivity at the time of dump.\n\nFor comparison:\n\nData are from IAEA-TECDOC-1105.\n\n\n\n\nData are from IAEA-TECDOC-1105.\n\nMainly at the east coast of Novaya Zemlya at Kara Sea and relatively small proportion at Barents Sea by USSR. Dumped at 20 sites from 1959–92, total of 222,000</sup> m including reactors and spent fuel.\n\nDumping occurred from 1948 to 1982. 78% of dumping in the Atlantic was done by UK (35,088 TBq), followed by Switzerland (4,419 TBq), USA (2,924 TBq) and Belgium (2,120 TBq). Sunken USSR nuclear submarines are not included. see List of sunken nuclear submarines\n\n137,000 tonnes were dumped by 8 European countries. USA reported neither tonnage nor volume for 34,282 containers.\n\nUSSR 874 TBq, USA 554 TBq, Japan 15.1 TBq, New Zealand 1+ TBq and unknown amount by South Korea. 751,000 m were dumped by Japan and USSR. USA reported neither tonnage nor volume of 56,261 containers.\n\nDumping of contaminated water at 2011 Fukushima Nuclear accident (estimate 4,700–27,000 TBq) is not included.\n\nUSSR dumped 749 TBq in the East sea, Japan dumped 15.1 TBq south of main island. South Korea dumped 45 tonnes (unknown radioactivity value) in the East sea.\n\nData are from IAEA-TECDOC-1105.\n\nJoint Russian-Norwegian expeditions (1992–94) collected samples from four dump sites. At immediate vicinity of waste containers, elevated levels of radionuclide were found, but had not contaminated the surrounding area.\n\nDumping was undertaken by UK, Switzerland, Belgium, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and Italy.\nIAEA had been studying since 1977. The report of 1996, by CRESP suggests measurable leakages of radioactive material, and, concluded that environmental impact is negligible.\n\nThese sites are monitored by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. So far, no excess level of radionuclides was found in samples (sea water, sediments) collected in the area, except the sample taken at a location close to disposed packages that contained elevated levels of isotopes of caesium and plutonium.\n\nThe joint Japanese-Korean-Russian expedition (1994–95) concluded that contamination resulted mainly from global fallout.\n\n"}
{"id": "482847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482847", "title": "Panchagavya", "text": "Panchagavya\n\nPanchagavya or panchakavyam is prepared by mixing five products of cow and used in traditional hindu rituals. The three direct constituents are cow dung, urine, and milk; the two derived products are curd and ghee. These are mixed in proper ratio and then allowed to ferment. Panchamrita is a similar mixture that replaces dung and urine with honey and sugar. The mixture which is made using yeast as a fermenter, bananas, groundnut cake, and the water of tender coconut, is believed to be a potent organic pesticide and growth promoter - \n\nThe Sanskrit word \"Panchagavya\" means \"mixture of five cow products\". It is also called cowpathy treatment based on products obtained from cows used in Ayurvedic medicine and of religious significance for Hindus. Panchgavya is also used as fertilizers and pesticides in agricultural operations, \n\nThe quality standards of Panchagavya are mentioned in Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia of India. CSIR has obtained some patents regarding Panchagavya.\n\nPanchagavya consists of nine products. cow dung, cow urine, milk, curd, jaggery, ghee, banana, tender coconut, and water. The cow dung and urine are thoroughly mixed in the morning and evening, and kept for 3 days. After setting, it is mixed regularly for another 15 days, and then added to the other ingredients, and left to sit for another 30 days. Panchagavya is stored in a wide-mouthed earthen pot or concrete tank in open. Sufficient shade is usually provided. It is sometimes diluted before use.Process should be conducted in step wise\n\nScientific studies have been performed to test the efficacy of Panchagavya and cow dung as a medical intervention. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37993088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37993088", "title": "Scorzonera tau-saghyz", "text": "Scorzonera tau-saghyz\n\nScorzonera tau-saghyz is a species of \"Scorzonera\", in the Asteraceae family.\n\nIt is endemic to Tajikistan and Uzbekistan in Central Asia.\n\nIt is of interest as a source of latex suitable for making natural rubber.\n"}
{"id": "52466878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52466878", "title": "Sharon Pincott", "text": "Sharon Pincott\n\nSharon Pincott, an Australian, is a specialist in the field of African elephant behaviour, and author. She has studied the social structure and population dynamics of a single clan of wild elephants extensively and is an advocate for ending ivory trade and promoting conservation.\n\nPincott grew up in the small town of Grantham, Queensland in the Lockyer Valley Region in Australia's east. She originally worked in the field of Information Technology (IT) and progressed to the position of National Director of IT for Ernst & Young Australia based in Sydney.\n\nPincott worked alone, on a full-time voluntary basis, for 13 years (2001-2014) with the clan of wild, free-roaming, elephants known as the Presidential Elephants of Zimbabwe on land bordering the Main Camp entrance to Hwange National Park. She acquired a reputation for being able to \"talk to the elephants\". \n\nIn 2009, eight years after arriving in Zimbabwe, Pincott was appointed South Africa \"Getaway\" magazine's 'Elephant Ambassador in Africa' \"in recognition of her courageous work with wildlife in Hwange\". Pincott subsequently came to the attention of Natural History Unit Africa and became the subject of the documentary titled \"All the President's Elephants\".\n\nThis \"All the President's Elephants\" documentary was filmed with Pincott in Hwange in 2011. It is the story of Pincott's life, work and intimate relationship with the Presidential Elephants of Zimbabwe, showcasing these Hwange elephants and some of the problems they face. It includes her wire snare removal work with colleagues called in to dart injured elephants using a tranquillizer gun. It also features Pincott's work successfully recommending and encouraging President Robert Mugabe to reaffirm his commitment to this clan of elephants, in an effort to secure their future. \nFrom December 2017 Pincott was active in voicing widespread opposition to scores more young elephants being captured, forcibly taken from their mothers and families inside Hwange National Park and transported to Chinese zoos, appealing to Zimbabwe's new President Emmerson Mnangagwa for an immediate review of policy and ultimately delivering a petition that attracted 287,509 signatures.\n\nHer elephant conservation work has been profiled in \"National Geographic\", BBC Wildlife and \"Africa Geographic\". She has been interviewed by writers for \"Intrepid Explorer\" magazine, South Africa \"The Zimbabwean\" newspaper, \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", and \"Travel Africa\" magazine.\n\nShe has published three books: \"The Elephants and I\" (Jacana Media, South Africa 2009), \"Battle for the President's Elephants\" (Jacana Media, South Africa 2012) and \"Elephant Dawn\" (first published by Allen & Unwin, Australia 2016, and then by Jacana Media, South Africa 2016). She is also the author of two earlier elephant works self-published in Zimbabwe, \"In An Elephant's Rumble\" (2004, ) and \"A Year Less Ordinary\" (2006, ).\n\nFor World Wildlife Day 2017 Pincott collaborated with the International Fund for Animal Welfare in an attempt to help bring an end to the Ivory trade. On International Women's Day 2017 Pincott was acknowledged by associates of the Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland, Australia, as \"blazing a trail for elephants as well as women working in conservation\". In late March 2017, almost 3 years after leaving her Hwange elephant work, Pincott was still being acknowledged by the Zimbabwe press for her \"profound dedication to the Presidential Elephants\", in a country increasingly known for hostility towards conservationists who speak out against wildlife-related corruption. In May 2017, after a male big-game hunter was crushed to death in Hwange when an adult female elephant, felled by gunfire, landed on him, Pincott reasoned in an interview that it was \"likely\" to be a known Presidential Elephant female that was shot in this hunting party incident, and highlighted the ongoing ineffectuality of Mugabe's Presidential Decree.\n\nIn 2017 Pincott revealed that she was suffering from rare, incurable, autoimmune connective tissue disease believed by medical researchers to be both environment- and stress-related.\n"}
{"id": "8840363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8840363", "title": "Simsapa tree", "text": "Simsapa tree\n\nThe Simsapa tree (Pali: ) is mentioned in ancient Buddhist discourses traditionally believed to have been delivered 2,500 years ago. The tree has been identified as either \"Dalbergia sissoo\", a rosewood tree common to India and southeast Asia, or \"Amherstia nobilis\", another South Asian tree, of the family Caesalpiniaceae.\n\nIn Buddhism's Pali Canon, there is a discourse entitled, \"The Simsapa Grove\" (SN 56.31). This discourse is described as having been delivered by the Buddha to monks while dwelling beneath a simsapa grove in the city of Kosambi. In this discourse, the Buddha compares a few simsapa leaves in his hand with the number of simsapa leaves overhead in the grove to illustrate what he teaches (in particular, the Four Noble Truths) and what he does not teach (things unrelated to the holy life).\n\nElsewhere in the Pali Canon, simsapa groves are mentioned in the \"Payasi Sutta\" (DN 23) and in the \"Hatthaka Discourse\" (AN 3.34).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "411781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411781", "title": "Soil test", "text": "Soil test\n\nSoil test may refer to one or more of a wide variety of soil analysis conducted for one of several possible reasons. Possibly the most widely conducted soil tests are those done to estimate the plant-available concentrations of plant nutrients, in order to determine fertilizer recommendations in agriculture. Other soil tests may be done for engineering (geotechnical), geochemical or ecological investigations.\n\nIn agriculture, a soil test commonly refers to the analysis of a soil sample to determine nutrient content, composition, and other characteristics such as the acidity or pH level. A soil test can determine fertility, or the expected growth potential of the soil which indicates nutrient deficiencies, potential toxicities from excessive fertility and inhibitions from the presence of non-essential trace minerals. The test is used to mimic the function of roots to assimilate minerals. The expected rate of growth is modeled by the Law of the Maximum.\n\nLabs, such as those at Iowa State and Colorado State University, recommend that a soil test contains 10-20 sample points for every of field. Tap water or chemicals can change the composition of the soil, and may need to be tested separately. As soil nutrients vary with depth and soil components change with time, the depth and timing of a sample may also affect results.\n\nComposite sampling can be performed by combining soil from several locations prior to analysis. This is a common procedure, but should be used judiciously to avoid skewing results. This procedure must be done so that government sampling requirements are met. A reference map should be created to record the location and quantity of field samples in order to properly interpret test results.\n\nSoil chemistry changes over time, as biological and chemical processes break down or combine compounds over time. These processes change once the soil is removed from its natural ecosystem (flora and fauna that penetrate the sampled area) and environment (temperature, moisture, and solar light/radiation cycles). As a result, the chemical composition analysis accuracy can be improved if the soil is analysed soon after its extraction — usually within a relative time period of 24 hours. The chemical changes in the soil can be slowed during storage and transportation by freezing it. Air drying can also preserve the soil sample for many months.\n\nSoil testing is often performed by commercial labs that offer a variety of tests, targeting groups of compounds and minerals. The advantages associated with local lab is that they are familiar with the chemistry of the soil in the area where the sample was taken. This enables technicians to recommend the tests that are most likely to reveal useful information.\nLaboratory tests often check for plant nutrients in three categories:\n\nThe amount of plant available soil phosphorus is most often measured with a chemical extraction method, and different countries have different standard methods. Just in Europe, more than 10 different soil P tests are currently in use and the results from these tests are not directly comparable with each other. \n\nDo-it-yourself kits usually only test for the three \"major nutrients\", and for soil acidity or pH level. Do-it-yourself kits are often sold at farming cooperatives, university labs, private labs, and some hardware and gardening stores. Electrical meters that measure pH, water content, and sometimes nutrient content of the soil are also available at many hardware stores. Laboratory tests are more accurate than tests with do-it-yourself kits and electrical meters. Here is an example soil sample report from one laboratory.\n\nSoil testing is used to facilitate fertilizer composition and dosage selection for land employed in both agricultural and horticultural industries.\n\nPrepaid mail-in kits for soil and ground water testing are available to facilitate the packaging and delivery of samples to a laboratory. Similarly, in 2004, laboratories began providing fertilizer recommendations along with the soil composition report.\n\nLab tests are more accurate and often utilize very precise flow injection technology, though both types are useful. In addition, lab tests frequently include professional interpretation of results and recommendations. Always refer to all proviso statements included in a lab report as they may outline any anomalies, exceptions, and shortcomings in the sampling and/or analytical process/results.\n\nSome laboratories analyze for all 13 mineral nutrients and a dozen non-essential, potentially toxic minerals utilizing the \"universal soil extractant\" (ammonium bicarbonate DTPA). \n\nCommon mineral soil contaminants include arsenic, barium, cadmium, copper, mercury, lead, and zinc.\n\nLead is a particularly dangerous soil component. The following table from the University of Minnesota categorizes typical soil concentration levels and their associated health risks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37496577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37496577", "title": "Terreneuvian", "text": "Terreneuvian\n\nThe Terreneuvian is the lowermost and oldest series of the Cambrian geological system. Its base is defined by the first appearance datum of the trace fossil \"Treptichnus pedum\" around million years ago. Its top is defined as the first appearance of trilobites in the stratigraphic record around million years ago. This series was formally ratified by the International Commission on Stratigraphy in 2012.\n\nThe Fortunian stage and presently unnamed Cambrian Stage 2 are the stages within this series. The Terreneuvian corresponds to the pre-trilobitic Cambrian.\n\nThe name Terreneuvian is derived from \"Terre Neuve\", a French name for the island of Newfoundland, Canada, where many rocks of this age are found, including the type section.\n\nThe type locality (GSSP) of the Terreneuvian is in Fortune Head, at the northern edge of the Burin Peninsula, Newfoundland, Canada (). The outcrops show a carbonate-siliciclastic succession which is mapped as the Chapel Island Formation. The formation is divided into the following members that are composed of peritidal sandstones and shales (Member 1), muddy deltaic and shelf sandstones and mudstones (Member 2A), laminated siltstones (Member 2B and 3) and mudstones and limestones of the inner shelf (Member 4). The Precambrian-Cambrian boundary lies 2.4 m above the base of the second member, which is the lowest occurrence of \"Treptichnus pedum\". The traces can be seen on the lower surface of the sandstone layers. The first calcareous shelled skeletal fossils \"(Ladatheca cylindrica)\" are 400 m above the boundary. The first trilobites appear 1400 m above the boundary, which corresponds to the beginning of the Branchian Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "28734113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28734113", "title": "Thomas Westbrook Waldron (consul)", "text": "Thomas Westbrook Waldron (consul)\n\nThomas Westbrook Waldron was a captain's clerk on the Wilkes Expedition, and the first United States consul to Hong Kong. His service to the United States consular service was honoured by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton during a ceremony in 2009.\n\nThe youngest of eight children of Daniel Waldron and Olive Huske Sheafe Waldron of Dover, New Hampshire, and named after his grandfather, he was born May 1, 1814. An older cousin of the same name had moved away prior to his birth and the name was re-used.\n\nWith his oldest brother Richard Russell Waldron he joined the Wilkes Expedition which explored a portion of the coast of Antarctica, some of the Pacific islands, and the coast of what is now Washington state. Waldron Glacier in the Antarctic is named after him. Waldron Island is named after him or his brother.\n\nFor reasons that are not presently very clear, in December 1843 he was nominated by President John Tyler to the office of United States consul to Hong Kong. He travelled to neighbouring Macau on official business, where he died September 18, 1844 after contracting cholera. He is buried in the Old Protestant Cemetery in Macau.\n\nOn May 1, 2009, as part of a ceremony honouring several diplomats who were deceased during their duty, he was honoured by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. A second ceremony occurred the same month at his burial site.\n\nWaldron Glacier and possibly Waldron Island are named after him.\n"}
{"id": "15423774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15423774", "title": "Three Parallel Rivers", "text": "Three Parallel Rivers\n\nThe Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas () is a UNESCO World Heritage Site in Yunnan province, China. It lies within the drainage basins of the upper reaches of the Yangtze (Jinsha), Lancang (Mekong) and Nujiang (Salween) rivers, in the Yunnan section of the Hengduan Mountains.\n\nThe protected areas extend over 15 core areas, totalling 939,441.4 ha, and buffer areas, totalling 758,977.8 ha across a region of 180 km by 310 km. Here, for a distance of over 300 km, three of Asia's great rivers run roughly parallel to one another though separated by high mountain ranges with peaks over 6,000 meters. After this area of near confluence, the rivers greatly diverge: the Nujiang River becomes Salween and empties out at Moulmein, Burma, into the Indian Ocean, the Lancang becomes the Mekong and south of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, empties out into the South China Sea and the Yangtze flows into the East China Sea at Shanghai. Selected nature reserves and places of scenic beauty in this unique region were collectively awarded World Heritage Site status in 2003 for their very rich biodiversity and outstanding topographical diversity.\n\nRunning parallel to these three rivers, but to the west inside Burma, is the river gorge of the N'Mai river, the main tributary to the Irrawaddy River.\n\nIn its description, UNESCO mentions: \"(It) may be the most biologically diverse temperate region on earth\" and \"An exceptional range of topographical features - from gorges to karst to glaciated peaks -- is associated with the site being at a 'collision point' of tectonic plates\".\n\nDue to its topography and geographical location, the \"Three Parallel Rivers\" region contains many climate types. Average annual precipitation ranges from 4,600 mm in the Dulongjian area in the west of Gongshan county to 300 mm in the upper valleys of the Yangtze river. The protected areas are home to around 6,000 species of plants, 173 species of mammals, and 417 species of birds. Many of the flora and fauna species are endemic to the region.\n\nAlthough this region has been acknowledged as a \"natural\" World Heritage Site, its demographic make-up also is highly interesting as it contains many of the twenty-five minorities found in Yunnan province including the Derung, the smallest of all of China's minority groups. Some of the other minorities found in this region are the Tibetan people, the Nu people, Lisu, Bai, Pumi and Naxi. Many of these minorities still use traditional costumes as their normal daily attire.\n\nIn the same region as the Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas lies the Old Town of Lijiang, which is also a World Heritage Site in its own right.\n\nThe Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas consists of fifteen protected areas, in eight geographic clusters. The areas include:\n\n\nAccording to UNESCO \"The area covered by the World Heritage site is claimed to be the most biodiverse and least disturbed temperate ecosystems in the world\".\nThe protected terrestrial ecoregion areas of this biodiversity hotspot are for a large part covered with both temperate coniferous and broadleaf forests. The protected areas are home to around 6,000 species of plants, many of which are endemic to the region. More than 200 varieties of rhododendron and more than 100 species of gentians and primulas are found in the areas.\n\nThe fauna found in the areas includes 173 species of mammals, of which 81 are endemic, and 417 species of birds, of which 22 are endemic. Some of the mammals which inhabit these regions are the endemic black snub-nosed monkey, the Indian leopard, snow leopard, and clouded leopard; the Gaoligong pika, Gongshan muntjac, Chinese shrew mole, and capped langur; the stump-tailed macaque, Asiatic wild dog, black musk deer, and takin; the smooth-coated otter, hoolock gibbon, Asian black bear and red panda.\n\nRare bird species in the areas include chestnut-throated partridge, the Lady Amherst's pheasant, white-eared pheasant, Yunnan nuthatch, and giant nuthatch; the white-speckled laughingthrush, ferruginous duck, Severtzov's grouse, and brown-winged parrotbill; the Ward's trogon, black-necked crane and Verreaux's monal-partridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37460595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37460595", "title": "Wine Grapes", "text": "Wine Grapes\n\nWine Grapes - A complete guide to 1,368 vine varieties, including their origins and flavours is a reference book about varieties of wine grapes. The book covers all grape varieties that were known to produce commercial quantities of wine at the time of writing, which meant 1,368 of the known 10,000 varieties. It is written by British Masters of Wine Jancis Robinson and Julia Harding in collaboration with Swiss grape geneticist Dr. José Vouillamoz.\n\n\"Wine Grapes\" is not an update of Robinson's earlier book \"Vines, Grapes & Wines\", first published in 1986. \"Wine Grapes\" is a brand new and original work that is much more extensive in coverage, and also incorporates recent findings from ampelographic research, including DNA profiling of grape varieties.\n\n\"Wine Grapes\" include a catalog listing of 1,368 grape varieties from across the globe including 377 Italian, 204 French and 77 Portuguese wine grape varieties. Coverage includes a listing of synonyms as well as the genetic relationship between varieties derived from DNA analysis.\n\nAccording to Jancis Robinson and José Vouillamoz, \"Wine Grapes\" includes details about almost 300 previously unpublished relationship between different grape varieties including the extensive family tree of the Pinot grape that includes a genetic link between the Burgundian wine grape Pinot noir to the Rhône grape Syrah and the Bordeaux varieties Cabernet Sauvignon, Cabernet franc, Merlot and Malbec. The book also details how the Jura wine grape Savagnin blanc descended from the Pinot grape to go on and be the parent vine of several white wine varieties including Chenin blanc, Grüner Veltliner, Sauvignon blanc, Petit Manseng and Verdelho.\n\nAlong with research assistant and Master of wine Julia Harding, Robinson and Vouillamoz go on to detail the long history of discovering the parentage of the American wine variety Zinfandel including past research that pointed to a connection between the Italian variety Primitivo and the Croatian wine grape Crljenak Kaštelanski. After years of research and DNA testing of vines from vineyards across the globe, a single 90-year-old grape vine from the garden of an elderly lady in Split, Croatia provided the evidence to show that Zinfandel was originally a Croatian grape known as \"Tribidrag\" that had been cultivated in Croatia since the 15th century.\nOther findings reported in \"Wine Grapes\" include the discovery of several species of Malvasia grapes growing in central and southern Italy are actually the Spanish wine grape Tempranillo and that Cabernet franc may have originated in Basque country of Spain. Additionally the origins of the assumed to be French varieties of Mourvèdre, Grenache and Carignan are shown to likely be Spanish instead.\n\nAnother detail revealed by DNA testing and reported in \"Wine Grapes\" is that several northern Italian white wine grape varieties including Favorita, Pigato and Vermentino are genetically the same grape vine which is known under the synonym of \"Rolle\" in France but has no genetic relationship to the Rollo grape of Liguria.\n\nA number of grape varieties are illustrated by reproductions of colour plates from \"Ampélographie. Traité général de viticulture\" written by Pierre Viala and Victor Vermorel and published in 1901–1910.\n\n"}
