{"id": "43420625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43420625", "title": "African Artists' Foundation", "text": "African Artists' Foundation\n\nThe African Artists' Foundation (AAF) is a non-profit organization, based in Lagos, Nigeria. It was founded in 2007 by \"Azu Nwagbogu\" to promote Nigerian and other African art and artists.\n\nAAF started the following projects:\n\n"}
{"id": "373182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373182", "title": "Authenticity (philosophy)", "text": "Authenticity (philosophy)\n\nAuthenticity is a concept in psychology (in particular existential psychiatry) as well as existentialist philosophy and aesthetics (in regard to various arts and musical genres). In existentialism, authenticity is the degree to which an individual's actions are congruent with their beliefs and desires, despite external pressures; the conscious self is seen as coming to terms with being in a material world and with encountering external forces, pressures, and influences which are very different from, and other than, itself. A lack of authenticity is considered in existentialism to be \"bad faith\". The call of authenticity resonates with the famous instruction by the Oracle of Delphi, “Know thyself.” But authenticity extends this message: \"Don’t merely know thyself – be thyself.\"\n\nViews of authenticity in cultural activities vary widely. For instance, the philosophers Jean Paul Sartre and Theodor Adorno had opposing views regarding jazz, with Sartre considering it authentic and Adorno inauthentic. The concept of authenticity is often aired in musical subcultures, such as punk rock and heavy metal, where a purported lack of authenticity is commonly labeled with the epithet \"poseur\". There is also a focus on authenticity in music genres such as \"...house, grunge, garage, hip-hop, techno, and showtunes\".\n\nOne of the greatest problems facing such abstract approaches is that the drives people call the \"needs of one's inner being\" are diffuse, subjective, and often culture-bound. For this reason among others, authenticity is often \"at the limits\" of language; it is described as the negative space around inauthenticity, with reference to examples of inauthentic living. Sartre's novels are perhaps the easiest access to this mode of describing authenticity: they often contain characters and antiheroes who base their actions on external pressures—the pressure to appear to be a certain kind of person, the pressure to adopt a particular mode of living, the pressure to ignore one's own moral and aesthetic objections in order to have a more comfortable existence. His work also includes characters who do not understand their own reasons for acting, or who ignore crucial facts about their own lives in order to avoid uncomfortable truths; this connects his work with the philosophical tradition.\n\nSartre is concerned also with the \"vertiginous\" experience of absolute freedom. In Sartre's view, this experience, necessary for the state of authenticity, can be so unpleasant that it leads people to inauthentic ways of living. Typically, authenticity is seen as a very general concept, not attached to any particular political or aesthetic ideology. This is a necessary aspect of authenticity: because it concerns a person's \"relation\" with the world, it cannot be arrived at by simply repeating a set of actions or taking up a set of positions. In this manner, authenticity is connected with creativity: the impetus to action must arise from the person in question, and not be externally imposed. Heidegger takes this notion to the extreme, by speaking in very abstract terms about modes of living (his terminology was adopted and simplified by Sartre in his philosophical works). Kierkegaard's work (e.g. \"Panegyric Upon Abraham\" from \"Fear and Trembling\") often focuses on biblical stories which are not directly imitable. Sartre, as has been noted above, focused on inauthentic existence as a way to avoid the paradoxical problem of appearing to provide prescriptions for a mode of living that rejects external dictation.\n\nAuthenticity, according to Kierkegaard, is reliant on an individual finding authentic faith and becoming true to oneself. Kierkegaard develops the idea that news media and the bourgeois church-Christianity present challenges for an individual in society trying to live authentically. Kierkegaard thus sees “both the media and the church as intervening agencies, blocking people’s way to true experiences, authenticity, and God. “ His conviction lies with the idea that mass-culture creates a loss of individual significance, which he refers to as “levelling.” Kierkegaard views the media as supporting a society that does not form its own opinions but utilizes the opinions constructed by the news. Similarly, he interprets religion as a tradition that is passively accepted by individuals, without the inclusion of authentic thought. Kierkegaard believes that authentic faith can be achieved by “facing reality, making a choice and then passionately sticking with it.” The goal of Kierkegaard's existentialist philosophy is to show that, in order to achieve authenticity, one must face reality and form his own opinions of existence. So as not to be discouraged by levelling, Kierkegaard suggests, “One must make an active choice to surrender to something that goes beyond comprehension, a leap of faith into the religious.” Even if one does not want to put forth the effort of developing his own views, he must do so in the quest for authentic faith.\n\nNietzsche's view of authenticity is an atheist interpretation of Kierkegaard. He rejects the role of religion in finding authenticity because he believes in finding truth without the use of virtues. Nietzsche believes of the authentic man as the following: Someone who elevates himself over others in order to transcend the limits of conventional morality in an attempt to decide for oneself about good and evil, without regard for the virtues “on account of which we hold our grandfathers in esteem.” Nietzsche rejects the idea of religious virtues due to the lack of questioning by the individual. One must avoid what he calls “herding animal morality,” if he is to find authenticity. To “stand alone” and avoid religiously constructed principles, it is essential to be “strong and original enough to initiate opposite estimates of value, to transvaluate and invert ‘eternal valuations.’” One must be a free thinker and theorize views outside of their predilections. The commonality of Kierkegaard and Nietzsche’s existential philosophies is “the responsibilities they place on the individual to take active part in the shaping of one’s beliefs and then to be willing to act on that belief.” For Nietzsche, the secular mentality is a form of weakness and, for authenticity to be achieved, one must truly transcend conventional morality.\n\nAccording to Abulof, authenticity's calling – being true to oneself – deceivingly conceals the deep chasms between two divergent interpretations of the \"self\": essentialist and existentialist. Essentialist authenticity demands we find and follow our preordained destiny, our inborn core. Conversely, existentialist authenticity prescribes “determine your destiny!” urging people to become aware of their freedom to choose their own path, which may, but need not, join that of others. While essentialists search for signs of self-betrayals, existentialists defiantly ask, “How am I not myself?” and answer: only when I forget my freedom, and surrender to “bad faith.” Otherwise, my choices – whatever they might be – constitute me.\n\nExistential philosophers like Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and Heidegger investigate the existential-ontological significance of societally constructed norms to decipher authenticity. For an existential journalist, this aversion to, and turning away from, an unquestioning acceptance of norms contributes to the production of an authentic work. Merrill believes that authentic journalism can exist if the journalist is true to one's self and rejects conformism. There are traditions that exist in media and news outlets that prevent journalists from achieving authenticity. Like Kierkegaard's view of media and church, Merrill believes that journalists are “gladly sacrificing individual authenticity to adapt nicely to the highly regimented, depersonalized corporate structure.” Journalists are restricted by “institutional red tape” and, thus, cannot achieve authenticity. It is beneficial for journalists to adhere to the “red tape” because their work will be published.\n\nActively shaping one's own belief and then acting upon that belief is a laborious task. A journalist that hesitates in writing a story because it is not within the norm is unable to achieve authenticity because of the notion that following the norm is more valuable than being authentic. The contention is, however, that “individual freedom and courage to act is more valuable than collective adherence to journalistic codes of conduct.” As journalists make conscious decisions to write authentically, they are able to contribute more value in their work. The consequence of authentic writing is positive and ensures that the journalist, according to Merrill, “grows, matures, creates himself, and projects himself into the future.”\n\nPhilosopher Jacob Golomb argues that the existentialist notion of authenticity is incompatible with a morality that values all persons.\n\nA very different definition of authenticity was proposed by Erich Fromm in the mid-1900s. He considered behavior of any kind, even that wholly in accord with societal mores, to be authentic if it results from personal understanding and approval of its drives and origins, rather than merely from conformity with the received wisdom of the society. Thus a Frommean authentic may behave consistently in a manner that accords with cultural norms, for the reason that those norms appear on consideration to be appropriate, rather than simply in the interest of conforming with current norms. Fromm thus considers authenticity to be a positive outcome of enlightened and informed motivation rather than a negative outcome of rejection of the expectations of others. He described the latter condition – the drive primarily to escape external restraints typified by the \"absolute freedom\" of Sartre – as \"the illusion of individuality\", as opposed to the genuine individuality that results from authentic living.\n\nThose who advocate social reform value the study of authenticity since it can provide a radical manifesto and an overview of the shortcomings of social structures. Michael Kernis and Brian Goldman defined authenticity as \"the unimpeded operation of one's true or core self in one's daily enterprise.\"\n\nWhile authenticity may be a goal intrinsic to \"the good life,\" it is often a difficult state to actually achieve, due in part to social pressures to live inauthentically and in part to a person's own character. It is also described as a revelatory state, where one perceives oneself, other people, and sometimes even things, in a radically new way. Some writers argue that authenticity also requires self-knowledge, and that it alters a person's relationships with other people. Authenticity also carries with it its own set of moral obligations, which often exist regardless of race, gender and class. The notion of authenticity also fits into utopian ideology, which requires authenticity among its citizens to exist, or which claims that such a condition would remove physical and economic barriers to pursuing authenticity.\n\nSecular and religious notions of authenticity have coexisted for centuries under different guises; perhaps the earliest account of authenticity that remains popular is Socrates' admonition that \"the unexamined life is not worth living\". In aesthetics, \"authenticity\" describes the perception of art as faithful to the artist's self, rather than conforming to external values such as historical tradition, or commercial worth. A common definition of \"authenticity\" in psychology refers to the attempt to live one's life according to the needs of one's inner being, rather than the demands of society or one's early conditioning.\n\nThe search for authenticity is a hallmark of romantic modernity. Romanticists since the late 18th century prescribed intuition, emotion and a return to nature as a necessary corrective, even an antidote, to Enlightenment's “cold” reason. In the twentieth century, Anglo-American discussions of authenticity often center around the writings of a few key figures associated with existentialist philosophy, where the term originated; because most of these writers wrote in languages other than English, the process of translating and anthologizing has had a strong impact on the debate. Walter Kaufmann might be credited with creating a \"canon\" of existentialist writers which include Søren Kierkegaard, Martin Heidegger, and Jean-Paul Sartre. For these writers, the conscious self is seen as coming to terms with being in a material world and with encountering external forces and influences which are very different from itself; authenticity is one way in which the self acts and changes in response to these pressures.\n\nThe call of, and for, authenticity - \"be theyself!\" - has pervaded modern thought and culture. A Google ngram (1800-2008) indicates the dramatic rise, since the 1960s, in relative frequency of this modern command: \"in books, Hollywood films, commercials, and daily conversations, we advise, even order: be yourself!\"\n\nDue to different groups' and individual's different experiences, views of authenticity regarding cultural activities vary widely and often differ between groups and individuals. For Sartre, jazz music was a representation of freedom; this may have been in part because jazz was associated with African American culture, and was thus in opposition to Western culture generally, which Sartre considered hopelessly inauthentic. Theodor Adorno, however, another writer and philosopher concerned with the notion of authenticity, despised jazz music because he saw it as a false representation that could give the appearance of authenticity but that was as much bound up in concerns with appearance and audience as many other forms of art. Heidegger in his later life associated authenticity with non-technological modes of existence, seeing technology as distorting a more \"authentic\" relationship with the natural world.\n\nSome writers on authenticity in the twentieth century considered the predominant cultural norms to be inauthentic; not only because they were seen as forced on people, but also because, in themselves, they required people to behave inauthentically towards their own desires, obscuring true reasons for acting. Advertising, in as much as it attempted to give people a reason for doing something that they did not already possess, was a \"textbook\" example of how Western culture distorted the individual for external reasons. Race relations are seen as another limit on authenticity, as they demand that the self engage with others on the basis of external attributes. An early example of the connection between inauthenticity and capitalism was made by Karl Marx, whose notion of \"alienation\" can be linked to the later discourse on the nature of inauthenticity.\n\nIndividuals concerned with living authentically have often led unusual lives that opposed cultural norms; the rise of the counter-culture in the 1960s in Europe and America was seen by many as a new opportunity to live an authentic existence. Many, however, have pointed out that anti-authoritarianism and eccentricity does not necessarily constitute an authentic state of being. The connection of the violation of cultural norms to authenticity, however, is strong and real, and continues today: among artists who explicitly violate the conventions of their profession, for example. The connection of inauthenticity to capitalism is contained in the notion of \"selling out,\" used to describe an artist whose work has become inauthentic after achieving commercial success and thus becoming to an extent integrated into an inauthentic system.\n\nAustralian author Helen Demidenko's novel \"The Hand that Signed the Paper\" promoted much debate on the nature of identity, ethnicity, and authenticity in Australian literature. The novel is about a Ukrainian family trying to survive a decade of Stalinist purges and state-imposed poverty and famine. When the media discovered Helen Dale's identity and legal name, this created debate in Australia's literary community.\n\nThe concept of authenticity is often raised in the punk rock and heavy metal musical subcultures, in which people or bands are criticized for their purported lack of authenticity by being labeled with the epithet \"poseur\". \"Poseur\" is used to refer to a person (or band) who copies the dress, speech, and/or mannerisms of a group or subculture, generally for attaining acceptability within the group, yet who is deemed not to share or understand the values or philosophy of the subculture. \"The code of authenticity, which is central to the heavy metal subculture, is demonstrated in many ways\", such as through clothing, the use of an emotional singing voice and having serious themes in the songs. In metal, one study of how fans sought out authenticity within the metal scene noted three elements to authenticity: long-term dedication to the scene; knowing key events of metal culture; and making the right choices based on one's authentic inner voice. In Black metal, an extreme metal genre, sincerity, authenticity and extremity are valued above all else.\" In the metal and hardcore punk subcultures, a band that began from a working class milieu that later signs to a major record label for a lucrative recording contract may be deemed to have \"sold out\" and lost their authenticity. In addition to the focus on authenticity in \"...punk, house, grunge, garage, and hip-hop,\" ideas of authenticity have seeped into many other genres, including those considered by some to be less \"authentic\" than the aforementioned.\n\nIn marketing brand authenticity is defined as the degree to which brand identity is causally linked to brand behaviour. Authenticity is perceived, if a brand fulfills its brand promise in a unique, consistent and continuous way.\n\n"}
{"id": "15995094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15995094", "title": "Bhutanese art", "text": "Bhutanese art\n\nBhutanese art is similar to Tibetan art. Both are based upon Vajrayana Buddhism and its pantheon of teachers and divine beings.\n\nThe major orders of Buddhism in Bhutan are the Drukpa Lineage and the Nyingma. The former is a branch of the Kagyu school and is known for paintings documenting the lineage of Buddhist masters and the 70 Je Khenpo (leaders of the Bhutanese monastic establishment). The Nyingma school is known for images of Padmasambhava (\"Guru Rinpoche\"), who is credited with introducing Buddhism into Bhutan in the 7th century. According to legend, Padmasambhava hid sacred treasures for future Buddhist masters, especially Pema Lingpa, to find. Tertöns are also frequent subjects of Nyingma art.\n\nEach divine being is assigned special shapes, colors, and/or identifying objects, such as lotus, conch-shell, thunderbolt, and begging bowl. All sacred images are made to exact specifications that have remained remarkably unchanged for centuries.\n\nBhutanese art is particularly rich in bronzes of different kinds that are collectively known by the name \"Kham-so\" (made in Kham) even though they are made in Bhutan because the technique of making them was originally imported from that region of Tibet. Wall paintings and sculptures, in these regions, are formulated on the principal ageless ideals of Buddhist art forms. Even though their emphasis on detail is derived from Tibetan models, their origins can be discerned easily, despite the profusely embroidered garments and glittering ornaments with which these figures are lavishly covered. In the grotesque world of demons, the artists apparently had a greater freedom of action than when modeling images of divine beings.\n\nThe arts and crafts of Bhutan that represents the exclusive \"spirit and identity of the Himalayan kingdom\" is defined as the art of \"Zorig Chosum\", which means the “thirteen arts and crafts of Bhutan”; the thirteen crafts are carpentry, painting, paper making, blacksmithery, weaving, sculpting and many other crafts. The Institute of Zorig Chosum in Thimphu is the premier institution of traditional arts and crafts set up by the Government of Bhutan with the sole objective of preserving the rich culture and tradition of Bhutan and training students in all traditional art forms; there is another similar institution in eastern Bhutan known as Trashi Yangtse. Bhutanese rural life is also displayed in the Folk Heritage Museum in Thimphu. There is also a Voluntary Artists Studio in Thimphu to encourage and promote the art forms among the youth of Thimphu. The thirteen arts and crafts of Bhutan and the institutions established in Thimphu to promote these art forms are:\n\nIn Bhutan, the traditional arts are known as \"zorig chusum\" (\"zo\" = the ability to make; \"rig\" = science or craft; \"chusum\" = thirteen). These practices have been gradually developed through the centuries, often passed down through families with long-standing relations to a particular craft. These traditional crafts represent hundreds of years of knowledge and ability that has been passed down through generations.\nThe great 15th century tertön, Pema Lingpa is traditionally credited with introducing the arts into Bhutan. In 1680, Ngawang Namgyal, the Zhabdrung Rinpoche, ordered the establishment of the school for instruction in the thirteen traditional arts. Although the skills existed much earlier, it is believed that the \"zorig chusum\" was first formally categorized during the rule of Gyalse Tenzin Rabgye (1680-1694), the 4th Druk Desi (secular ruler). The thirteen traditional arts are:\n\n\nArticles for everyday use are still fashioned today as they were centuries ago. Traditional artisanship is handed down from generation to generation. Bhutan's artisans are skilled workers in metals, wood and slate carving, and clay sculpture. Artifacts made of wood include bowls and dishes, some lined with silver. Elegant yet strong woven bamboo baskets, mats, hats, and quivers find both functional and decorative usage. Handmade paper is prepared from tree bark by a process passed down the ages.\n\nEach region has its specialties: raw silk comes from eastern Bhutan, brocade from Lhuntshi (Kurtoe), woolen goods from Bumthang, bamboo wares from Kheng, woodwork from Tashi Yangtse, gold and silver work from Thimphu, and yak-hair products from the north or the Black Mountains.\n\nMost Bhutanese art objects are produced for use of the Bhutanese themselves. Except for goldsmiths, silversmiths, and painters, artisans are peasants who produce these articles and fabrics in their spare time, with the surplus production being sold. Most products, particularly fabrics, are relatively expensive. In the highest qualities, every step of production is performed by hand, from dyeing hanks of thread or hacking down bamboo in the forest, to weaving or braiding the final product. \n\nThe time spent in producing handicrafts is considerable and can involve as much as two years for some woven textiles. At the same time, many modern innovations are also used for less expensive items, especially modern dyes, and yarns - Bhutan must be one of the few places where hand-woven polyester garments can be bought.\n\nBhutanese textiles are a unique art form inspired by nature made in the form of clothing, crafts and different types of pots in eye-catching blend of colour, texture, pattern and composition. This art form is witnessed all over Bhutan and in Thimphu in the daily life of its people. It is also a significant cultural exchange garment that is gifted to mark occasions of birth and death, auspicious functions such as weddings and professional achievements and in greeting dignitaries. Each region has its own special designs of textiles, either made of vegetable dyed wool known as \"yathra\" or pure silk called \"Kishuthara\". It is the women, belonging to a small community, who weave these textiles as a household handicrafts heritage.\n\nMost Bhutanese art, including ‘Painting in Bhutanese art’, known as \"lhazo\", is invariably religion centric. These are made by artists without inscribing their names on them. The paintings encompass various types including the traditional thangkas, which are scroll paintings made in “highly stylised and strict geometric proportions” of Buddhist iconography that are made with mineral paints. Most houses in Bhutan have religious and other symbolic motifs painted inside their houses and also on the external walls.\n\nThe art of making religious sculptures is unique in Bhutan and hence very popular in the Himalayan region. The basic material used for making the sculptures is clay, which is known as \"jinzob\". The clay statues of Buddhist religious icons, made by well-known artists of Bhutan, embellish various monasteries in Bhutan. This art form of sculpture is taught to students by professional artists at the Institute of Zorig Chosum in Thimphu.\n\nHandmade paper known as \"deysho\" is in popular usage in Bhutan and it is durable and insect resistant. The basic material used is the bark of the Daphne plant. This paper is used for printing religious texts; traditional books are printed on this paper. It is also used for packaging gifts. Apart from handmade paper, paper factories in Bhutan also produce ornamental art paper with designs of flower petals, and leaves, and other materials. For use on special occasions, vegetable dyed paper is also made.\n\n\nWood carving known as \"Parzo\" is a specialised and ancient art form, which is significantly blended with modern buildings in the resurgent Bhutan. Carved wood blocks are used for printing religious prayer flags that are seen all over Bhutan in front of monasteries, on hill ridges and other religious places. Carving is also done on slate and stone. The wood that is used for carving is seasoned for at least one year prior to carving.\nThe art of sword making falls under the tradition of \"garzo\" (or blacksmithing), an art form that is used to make all metal implements such as swords, knives, chains, darts and so forth. Ceremonial swords are made and gifted to people who are honoured for their achievements. These swords are to be sported by men on all special occasions. Children, wear a traditional short knife known as the \"dudzom\". Terton Pema Lingpa, a religious treasure hunter from central Bhutan, was the most famous sword maker in Bhutan.\n\nIt is not uncommon to see Bhutan’s traditional boots made of cloth. The cloth is hand stitched, embroidered and appliquéd with Bhutanese motifs. They are worn on ceremonial occasions (mandatory); the colours used on the boot denote the rank and status of the person wearing it. In the pecking order, Ministers wear orange, senior officials wear red and the common people wear white boots. This art form has been revived at the Institute of Zorig Chosum in Thimphu. Women also wear boots but of shorter length reaching just above the ankle.\n\nBamboo Craft made with cane and bamboo is known as \"thazo\". It is made in many rural communities in many regions of Bhutan. Few special items of this art form are the \"belo\" and the \"bangchung\", popularly known as the Bhutanese “Tupperware” basket made in various sizes. Baskets of varying sizes are used in the homes and for travel on horseback, and as flasks for local drink called the \"arra\".\n\nTo meet the growing demand for bow and arrow used in the national sport of archery, bamboo bows and arrows are made by craftsmen using specific types of bamboo and mountain reeds. The bamboo used are selected during particular seasons, shaped to size and skilfully made into the bow and arrow. Thimphu has the Changlimithang Stadium & Archery Ground where Archery is a special sport.\n\nIntricate jewelry with motif, made of silver and gold, are much sought after by women of Bhutan. The traditional jewelry made in Bhutan are heavy bracelets, \"komas\" or fasteners attached to the \"kira,\" the traditional dress of Bhutanse women, loop ear rings set with turquoise and necklaces inlaid with gem stones such as antique turquoise, coral beads and the \"zhi\" stone. The \"zhi\" stone is considered a prized possession as it is said to have “protective powers”; this stone has black and white spiral designs called “eyes”. The \"zhi\" is also said to be an agate made into beads.\n\nThe National Institute of Zorig Chusum is the centre for Bhutanese Art education. Painting is the main theme of the institute, which provides 4–6 years of training in Bhutanese traditional art forms. The curricula cover a comprehensive course of drawing, painting, wood carving, embroidery, and carving of statues. Images of Buddha are a popular painting done here.\n\nThere is a large government run emporium close to the National Institute of Zorig Chusum, which deals with exquisite handicrafts, traditional arts and jewelry; \"gho\" and \"kira\", the national dress of Bhutanese men and women, are available in this emporium. The town has many other privately owned emporiums which deal with thangkas, paintings, masks, brassware, antique jewellery, painted lama tables known as \"choektse\", drums, Tibetan violins and so forth; Zangma Handicrafts Emporium, in particular, sells handicrafts made in the Institute of Zorig Chusum.\n\nFolk Heritage Museum in Kawajangsa, Thimphu is built on the lines of a traditional Bhutanese farm house with more-than-100-year-old vintage furniture. It is built as a three storied structure with rammed mud walls and wooden doors, windows and roof covered with slates. It reveals much about Bhutanese rural life.\n\nLocated in an innocuous building, the Voluntary Artist Studio’s objective is to encourage traditional and contemporary art forms among the youth of Thimphu who are keen to imbibe these art forms. The art works of these young artists is also available on sale in the 'Art Shop Gallery' of the studio.\n\nThe National Textile Museum in Thimphu displays various Bhutanese textiles that are extensive and rich in traditional culture. It also exhibits colourful and rare kiras and ghos (traditional Bhutanese dress, kira for women and gho for men).\n\nThe Honolulu Museum of Art spent several years developing and curating \"The Dragon’s Gift: The Sacred Arts of Bhutan\" exhibition. The February - May 2008 exhibition in Honolulu will travel in 2008 and 2009 to locations around the world including the Rubin Museum of Art (New York City), the Asian Art Museum (San Francisco), Guimet Museum (Paris), the Museum of East Asian Art (Cologne, Germany), and the Museum Rietberg Zürich (Switzerland).\n\n\n\nArt and the youth of Bhutan\n\nManuel Valencia Contemporary artist with clear Buthanese inspiration\n"}
{"id": "1027240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1027240", "title": "Biryani", "text": "Biryani\n\nBiryani (), also known as biriyani, biriani, birani or briyani, is a mixed rice dish with its origins among the Muslims of the Indian subcontinent. It is popular throughout the Indian subcontinent as well as among the diaspora from the region. It is made with Indian spices, rice, meat (chicken, goat, beef, prawn, or fish), vegetables or eggs.\n\n\"Biryani\" is an Urdu word derived from the Persian language, which was used as an official language in different parts of medieval India by various Islamic dynasties. One theory is that it originates from \"birinj\", the Persian word for rice. Another is that it derives from \"biryan\" or \"beriyan\", which is to fry or to roast.\n\nThe exact origin of the dish is uncertain. In North India, different varieties of biryani developed in the Muslim centers of Delhi (Mughlai cuisine), Lucknow (Awadhi cuisine) and other small principalities. In South India, where rice is more widely used as a staple food, several distinct varieties of biryani emerged from Telangana (specifically Hyderabad), Tamil Nadu (Ambur), Kerala (Malabar), and Karnataka, where minority Muslim communities were present. Andhra is the only region of South India that does not have many native varieties of biryani. During the Safavid dynasty (1501–1736) in Persia, a dish called \"Berian Pilao\" (Nastaliq script: ) was made with lamb or chicken, marinated overnight — with dahi, herbs, spices, dried fruits (e.g., raisins, prunes, or pomegranate seeds) — and later cooked in a tannour oven. It was then served with steamed rice.\n\nAccording to historian Lizzie Collingham, the modern biryani developed in the royal kitchens of the Mughal Empire (1526–1857), as a confluence of the native spicy rice dishes of India and the Persian \"pilaf\". Indian restaurateur Kris Dhillon believes that the dish originated in Persia, and was brought to India by the Mughals. However, another theory claims that the dish was known in India before the first Mughal emperor Babur came to India. The 16th-century Mughal text \"Ain-i-Akbari\" makes no distinction between biryanis and pilaf (or pulao): it states that the word \"biryani\" is of older usage in India. A similar theory, that biryani came to India with Timur's invasion, appears to be incorrect, because there is no record of biryani having existed in his native land during that period.\n\nAccording to Pratibha Karan, the biryani is of South Indian origin, derived from pilaf varieties brought to the Indian subcontinent by the Arab traders. She speculates that the \"pulao\" was an army dish in medieval India. The armies, unable to cook elaborate meals, would prepare a one-pot dish where they cooked rice with whichever meat was available. Over time, the dish became biryani due to different methods of cooking, with the distinction between \"pulao\" and \"biryani\" being arbitrary. According to Vishwanath Shenoy, the owner of a biryani restaurant chain in India, one branch of biryani comes from the Mughals, while another was brought by the Arab traders to Malabar in South India.\n\nPilaf or \"pulao\", as it is known in the Indian subcontinent, is another mixed rice dish popular in the cuisines of the Indian subcontinent and Middle Eastern cuisine. Opinions differ on the differences between pulao and biryani, and whether there is a difference between the two at all.\n\nAccording to Delhi-based historian Sohail Nakhvi, pulao tends to be (comparatively) plainer than the biryani and consists of meat (or vegetables) cooked with rice. Biryani on the other hand contains more gravy (due to the use of \"yakhni\" in it), is often cooked for longer (hence yielding more tender meat or vegetables) and with additional condiments. Pratibha Karan states that while the terms are often applied arbitrarily, the main distinction is that a biryani comprises two layers of rice with a layer of meat (or vegetables) in the middle; the pulao is not layered.\n\nColleen Taylor Sen lists the following distinctions between biryani and pulao:\n\nIngredients vary according to the region the biryani is from and the type of meat used. Meat (of either chicken, goat, beef, prawn or fish) is the prime ingredient with rice. As is common in dishes of the Indian subcontinent, some vegetables are also used when preparing biryani. Corn may be used depending on the season and availability. Navratan biryani tends to use sweeter richer ingredients such as cashews, kismis and fruits such as apples and pineapples.\n\nThe spices and condiments used in biryani may include ghee (clarified butter), nutmeg, mace, pepper, cloves, cardamom, cinnamon, bay leaves, coriander, mint leaves, ginger, onions, tomatoes, and garlic. The premium varieties include saffron. In all biryani, the main ingredient that accompanies the spices is the chicken or goat meat; special varieties might use beef or seafood instead. The dish may be served with dahi chutney or raita, korma, curry, a sour dish of aubergine (brinjal), boiled egg, and salad.\n\nKacchi biryani\n\nTehari\n\nBeef biryani\n\nThere are many varieties of biryani, the names of which are often based on the region they are from (for example, Sindhi biryani developed in the Sindh region of what is now Pakistan, Hyderabadi biryani developed in the city of Hyderabad in South India, etc.). Some have taken the name of the shop that sells it (for example: Haji Biriyani, Haji Nanna Biriyani in Old Dhaka, Fakhruddin Biriyani in Dhaka, Students biryani in Karachi, Lucky biryani in Bandra, Mumbai and Baghdadi biryani in Colaba, Mumbai). Biryanis are often specific to the respective Muslim community from where it comes, as it is usually the defining dish of that community. Cosmopolitanism has also created these native versions to suit the tastes of others as well.\n\nDelhi biryani\n\nSindhi biryani\n\nHyderabadi biryani\n\nThalassery biryani\n\nKolkata biryani\n\nAmbur/Vaniyambadi biryani\n\nChettinad biryani\n\nBhatkali/Navayathi biryani\n\nMemoni/Kutchi biryani\n\nDindigul biryani\n\nBohri biryani\n\nKalyani biryani\n\nSri Lankan biryani\n\nRawther biryani\n\nIn Myanmar (Burma), biryani is known in Burmese as \"danpauk\" or \"danbauk\", from the Persian \"dum pukht\". Featured ingredients include cashew nuts, yogurt, raisins and peas, chicken, cloves, cinnamon, saffron and bay leaf. In Burmese biryani, the chicken is cooked with the rice. Biryani is also eaten with a salad of sliced onions and cucumber.\n\nOne form of \"Arabic\" biryani is the Iraqi preparation (برياني: \"biryani\"), where the rice is usually saffron-based with chicken usually being the meat or poultry of choice. It is most popular in Iraqi Kurdistan. Most variations also include vermicelli, fried onions, fried potato cubes, almonds and raisins spread liberally over the rice. Sometimes, a sour/spicy tomato sauce is served on the side (maraq).\n\nIn Iran, during the Safavid dynasty (1501–1736), a dish called \"Berian\" (Nastaliq script: ) was made with lamb or chicken, marinated overnight — with yogurt, herbs, spices, dried fruits like raisins, prunes or pomegranate seeds — and later cooked in a tannour oven. It was then served with steamed rice.\n\nA different dish called \"biryan\" is popular in Afghanistan. Biryan traces its origins to the same source as biryani, and is today sold in Afghanistan as well as in Bhopal, India. Biryan is prepared by cooking gosht and rice together, but without the additional gravy (\"yakhni\") and other condiments that are used in biryani. The Delhi-based historian Sohail Hashmi refers to the biryan as midway between the pulao and biryani. The Afghani biryani tends to use a lot of dry fruit and lesser amounts of meat, often cut into tiny pieces.\n\nNasi kebuli is an Indonesian spicy steamed rice dish cooked in goat meat broth, milk and ghee. Nasi kebuli is descended from Kabuli Palaw which is an Afghani rice dish, similar to biryani served in the Indian subcontinent.\n\n\"Nasi Briyani\" dishes are very popular in Malaysia and Singapore. As an important part of Malaysian Indian cuisine, they are popularized through Mamak stalls, hawker centres, food courts as well as fine dining restaurants.\n\nBiryani dishes are very popular in Mauritius especially at Hindu and Muslim weddings. It is also widely available at street food places.\n\nKapampangan cuisine of Philippines (often in Pampanga) features a special dish called \"Nasing Biringyi\" (chicken saffron rice), that is typically prepared only during special occasions such as weddings, family get-togethers or fiestas. It is not a staple diet as it is difficult to prepare compared to other usual dishes. Nasing Biringyi is similar to the \"Nasi Briyani\" dish of Malaysia in style and taste, but is also compared to a saffron-cooked version of Spanish Paella.\n\nIn the Cape Malay culture, a variation of biryani incorporates lentils as a key ingredient into the dish along with meat (usually goat meat or chicken). The dish may be seasoned with garam masala or a curry spice mix (though this is not authentic to the local style) and coloured, sometimes heavily, with turmeric.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24161962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24161962", "title": "Blacklight: Tango Down", "text": "Blacklight: Tango Down\n\nBlacklight: Tango Down is a dystopian cyberpunk-themed online multiplayer first-person shooter video game developed by Zombie Studios and published by Ignition Entertainment. The game was released on July 7, 2010 on Xbox 360 as a downloadable title, and was released on Microsoft Windows (with Games for Windows – Live requirement) on July 14, 2010. The game was also released on October 26, 2010 for the PlayStation 3. The PC version is the one to receive all three patches, where as the Xbox 360 received only the first two patches, and the PlayStation 3 version received no patches, being at retail, launch day version.\n\nZombie was planning to make \"Blacklight\" a multimedia franchise that would include the video game, a feature film, and a trilogy of comic books, however the company became defunct on January 8, 2015. The idea was conceptualized by Zombie executives which later pitched the idea to several film and comic book production companies. The film rights were immediately bought by Fox Atomic to create a film adaptation of the franchise. Fox Atomic's comic subsidiary, Fox Atomic Comics, was also to be creating the \"Blacklight\" comics, but after the closing of Fox Atomic, the trans-media rights have been purchased by Imagine Entertainment. The film, comic books, and game will not share the same storylines, but tell different stories in the \"Blacklight\" universe at different time periods. As of November 2018, there are no new updates for the film's status, other than that Jason Hall was the screenwriter for the project in 2010.\n\nThe game contains modes such as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, King of the Hill, Domination, Capture the Flag, Last Man Standing, and Last Team Standing, with two slightly more unique modes, those being Retrieval and Detonate. In Detonate, a neutral bomb is at the center of the map, and a player from one team has to plant the bomb at the base of the enemy team, and prevent it from being defused. Retrieval is a modified version of Capture the Flag, where you cannot take the item (being either a bomb or a canister with sensitive information) to your base. There are two of them on the map, one belonging to each team. The points are scored whenever the canister/bomb is at the retrieval zone of the enemy team, where it accumulates points, but it is still an enemy team canister/bomb.\n\nThe game makes use of its near-future setting by offering HRV (Hyper Reality Visor) that allow players to see an enemy's presence through walls and other obstacles, as well as two types of grenades that counter other players' visors through the use of a blurring effect, similar to a digital smokescreen, along with a type of grenade which emits EMP that forces the enemy's HUD to reboot and reset, resulting in temporary blindness.\n\nThe game also features a \"Black Ops\" game-mode, which supports up to four players, in online co-operative play, through a campaign that takes the player or players through a war-torn city. Blacklight: Tango Down features five distinct weapons, including an assault rifle, a sub-machine gun, a light machine gun, a sniper rifle and a shotgun. Each weapon comes with its own unique futuristic appearance, as well as a wide variety of upgrades and customizations, including variations of magazines, barrels, and camouflages. The weapon customization lets you affect the accuracy, speed, and health for the four different load-out kits you get.\n\nThe game contains XP and level up system, familiar to that employed in , which allows the player rank up through 70 levels. Weapon customizations will unlock as the player gains skill and experience points and will include more basic add-ons like sniper scopes as well as more complex enhancements, such as stocks, barrels, muzzles, magazines, weapon tags, etc.\n\n\"Blacklight: Tango Down\" takes place in a dystopian cyberpunk overpopulated near-future where megacorporations reign supreme and try to manipulate world governments and agencies, and within the confines of a fictional Eastern European city called 'Balik'. The city is a former Soviet state that has become rundown and dilapidated, with some megacorporate presence, of which retreated after its president assassinated by a terrorist rebel group named The Order, ending its totalitarian military dictatorship that was on a downward spiral due to corporate influence and civil unrest, but subsequently caused The Order to take over the city and intentionally create an epidemic with an obscure and mysterious virus named 'Q-Fever' that induces symptoms similar to rabies, and having the infected be named SIVs (slang for Sentient Insanity Virus). \n\nMeanwhile an United States agency, named Blacklight, is contracted to wage war against the terrorist group after they've killed the initially deployed Tango squad, sent in to locate a Colonel Klein and his personal Blacklight squad after they went missing in the area, which begins to plunge the world into a downward spiral as megacorporations exploit warfare for profit and manipulative political and economical power.\n\nThe game was officially announced by Zombie and Fox Atomic on March 16, 2009 at a press conference. The pair announced not only the game, but the collaboration on the film and comic book series as well. The comic book, which tells the story that resulted in the events of the final game, is a loose adaptation of the novel Heart of Darkness. \n\nThe only details revealed were the first-person perspective and futuristic setting of the game. However, a screenshot of the game, released in 2009, indicates it may have been third-person, and that within the game's files, may have had a single-player, with many different mechanics hinted (for example, manual saves and under-barrel grenade-launchers). The designers described \"Blacklight\" as \"Science Fact\", as opposed to science fiction. It was explained that this meant Zombie researched the cutting edge of modern-day technology and applied them to the armor and weapons of the game to give it a real but futuristic atmosphere. The weapons are inspired by designs used in the U.S Army from the 1960's and onward. Zombie, having worked with the Army on several training games, have had the ability to check the advances in R&D as far as new technologies.\n\nThe following day Zombie founder Mark Long had a public interview revealing much more information about the game. A basic plot summary was issued as well as some weapon designs. Although no release date was set, he noted that the comic book will come first and the game will come \"sooner than later\".\n\nA few screenshots of the game were released alongside the interview. Most of the screens, in a unique marketing approach, all depict the same scene from different angles and perspectives. The scene depicts a battle between two warring factions dressed in advanced combat armor in an urban environment with several skyscrapers. Some of the buildings are shown being crumbled and some are destroyed with large holes in them from previous battles. Ignition Entertainment announced on March 1, 2010 that they would be publishing the game for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Microsoft Windows.\n\n\"Blacklight: Tango Down\" has received mixed or average reviews from critics and currently holds a score of 65% on the aggregate site Metacritic, and a similar score of 64.75% at GameRankings. \"Blacklight: Tango Down\" sold over 100,000 copies in its first three weeks of release on Xbox Live Arcade. As of year-end 2010 that number increased to over 127,000 units. As of year-end 2011 the Xbox 360 version moved over 158,000 units.\n\nThe most positive review came from Daemon Hatfield of IGN, who described the game as a \"fun and inexpensive way to get your multiplayer fix\", and that \"when you first jump into the game it may be hard to believe you only paid $15 for it\". However, despite commending the game for being solid, he admitted it was \"not particularly inspired\". GamesRadar gave a similar review to IGN, saying that the game \"seeks to bring the beloved multiplayer modes of AAA shooters to a downloadable game that only costs fifteen bucks, and in many respects it does this well\", but called the co-op modes \"linear\" and \"uninspired\". The title's unique weapon customization mechanic came under particular praise by NTSC-uk, claiming it provided \"not only the largest variety of guns seen in any competitive shooter today, but also the most balanced online ranking system that is on the market\".\n\nThe lowest scored review came from Jim Sterling of Destructoid, who rated the game 3/10. He criticized the co-op missions, saying that the \"Black Ops levels seem thrown in for no good reason\", and that the \"multiplayer is only marginally better\". However he did note \"\"Tango Down\" looks really quite good, with visuals that almost look convincingly retail\", but that \"graphics really aren't worth buying the game for\".\n\nIn July 2010, Zombie Studios revealed to file hosting site Big Download that the team was already starting development on the sequel to \"Blacklight: Tango Down\". According to Zombie Studios CEO Mark Long the game will feature larger maps and vehicle control. Titled \"\", it was targeted for a Winter 2011 release, and came out on April 3, 2012 (July 2, 2012 on Steam). The sequel is also a \"free-to-play\" game.\n"}
{"id": "2218675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2218675", "title": "Bride kidnapping", "text": "Bride kidnapping\n\nBride kidnapping, also known as marriage by abduction or marriage by capture, is a practice in which a man abducts the woman he wishes to marry. Bride kidnapping has been practiced around the world and throughout history. It continues to occur in countries in Central Asia, the Caucasus region, and parts of Africa, and among peoples as diverse as the Hmong in Southeast Asia, the Tzeltal in Mexico, and the Romani in Europe.\n\nIn most nations, bride kidnapping is considered a sex crime rather than a valid form of marriage. Some types of it may also be seen as falling along the continuum between forced marriage and arranged marriage. The term is sometimes used to include not only abductions, but also elopements, in which a couple runs away together and seeks the consent of their parents later; these may be referred to as non-consensual and consensual abductions respectively. However, even when the practice is against the law, judicial enforcement remains lax in some areas, such as Moldova, Kyrgyzstan and Chechnya.\n\nBride kidnapping is distinguished from \"raptio\" in that the former refers to the abduction of one woman by one man (and his friends and relatives), and is still a widespread practice, whereas the latter refers to the large scale abduction of women by groups of men, possibly in a time of war (see also war rape).\n\nSome cultures today maintain symbolic bride kidnapping ritual as part of traditions surrounding a wedding, in a nod to the practice of bride kidnapping which may have figured in that culture's history. According to some sources, the honeymoon is a relic of marriage by capture, based on the practice of the husband going into hiding with his wife to avoid reprisals from her relatives, with the intention that the woman would be pregnant by the end of the month.\n\nThough the motivations behind bride kidnapping vary by region, the cultures with traditions of marriage by abduction are generally patriarchal with a strong social stigma on sex or pregnancy outside marriage and illegitimate births.\n\nIn some modern cases, the couple collude together to elope under the guise of a bride kidnapping, presenting their parents with a \"fait accompli\". In most cases, however, the men who resort to capturing a wife are often of lower social status, because of poverty, disease, poor character or criminality. They are sometimes deterred from legitimately seeking a wife because of the payment the woman's family expects, the bride price (not to be confused with a dowry, paid by the \"woman's\" family).\n\nIn agricultural and patriarchal societies, where bride kidnapping is most common, children work for their family. A woman leaves her birth family, geographically and economically, when she marries, becoming instead a member of the groom's family. (See patrilocality for an anthropological explanation.) Due to this loss of labour, the women's families do not want their daughters to marry young, and demand economic compensation (the aforementioned bride price) when they do leave them. This conflicts with the interests of men, who want to marry early, as marriage means an increase in social status, and the interests of the groom's family, who will gain another pair of hands for the family farm, business or home. Depending on the legal system under which she lives, the consent of the woman may not be a factor in judging the validity of the marriage.\n\nIn addition to the issue of forced marriage, bride kidnapping may have other negative effects on the young women and their society. For example, fear of kidnap is cited as a reason for the lower participation of girls in the education system.\n\nThe mechanism of marriage by abduction varies by location. This article surveys the phenomenon by region, drawing on common cultural factors for patterns, but noting country-level distinctions.\n\nIn three African countries, bride kidnapping often takes the form of abduction followed by rape.\n\nBride-kidnapping is prevalent in areas of Rwanda. Often the abductor kidnaps the woman from her household or follows her outside and abducts her. He and his companions may then rape the woman to ensure that she submits to the marriage. The family of the woman either then feels obliged to consent to the union, or is forced to when the kidnapper impregnates her, as pregnant women are not seen as eligible for marriage. The marriage is confirmed with a ceremony that follows the abduction by several days. In such ceremonies, the abductor asks his bride's parents to forgive him for abducting their daughter. The man may offer a cow, money, or other goods as restitution to his bride's family.\n\nBride-kidnap marriages in Rwanda often lead to poor outcomes. Human rights workers report that one third of men who abduct their wives abandon them, leaving the wife without support and impaired in finding a future marriage. Additionally, with the growing frequency of bride-kidnapping, some men choose not to solemnize their marriage at all, keeping their \"bride\" as a concubine. Domestic violence is also common and is not illegal.\n\nBride kidnapping is not specifically outlawed in Rwanda, though violent abductions are punishable as rape. According to a criminal justice official, bride kidnappers are virtually never tried in court: \"When we hear about abduction, we hunt down the kidnappers and arrest them and sometimes the husband, too. But we're forced to let them all go several days later,\" says an official at the criminal investigation department in Nyagatare, the capital of Umutara. Women's rights groups have attempted to reverse the tradition by conducting awareness raising campaigns and by promoting gender equity, but the progress has been limited so far.\n\nCoptic Christian women and girls are often abducted, forced to convert to Islam and then married to Muslim men.\n\nBride kidnapping is prevalent in many regions of Ethiopia. According to surveys conducted in 2003 by the National Committee on Traditional Practices in Ethiopia, the custom's prevalence rate was estimated at 69 percent nationally, and highest in the Southern Nations, Nationalities and People's Region at 92 percent. A man working in co-ordination with his friends may kidnap a girl or woman, sometimes using a horse to ease the escape. The abductor will then hide his intended bride and rape her until she becomes pregnant. As the father of the woman's child, the man can claim her as his wife. Subsequently, the kidnapper may try to negotiate a bride price with the village elders to legitimize the marriage. Girls as young as eleven years old are reported to have been kidnapped for the purpose of marriage. Though Ethiopia criminalised such abductions and raised the marriageable age to 18 in 2004, this law has not been well implemented. A 2016 UNICEF evidence review (based on data from 2010 and 2013) estimated that 10 to 13 percent of marriages in the highest risk areas involved abduction, with rates of 1.4 percent to 2.4 percent in lower risk areas of the country.\n\nThe bride of the forced marriage may suffer from the psychological and physical consequences of forced sexual activity and early pregnancy, and the early end to her education. Women and girls who are kidnapped may also be exposed to sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV/AIDS.\n\nForced marriages continue to be a problem for young girls in Kenya. The United States Department of State reports that children and young teenaged girls (aged ten and up) are sometimes married to men two decades older.\n\nMarriage by abduction used to be, and to some extent still is, a customary practice for the Kisii ethnic group. In their practice, the abductor kidnaps the woman forcibly and rapes her in an attempt to impregnate her. The \"bride\" is then coerced through the stigma of pregnancy and rape to marry her abductor. Though most common in the late 19th century through the 1960s, such marriage abductions still occur occasionally.\n\nThe Turkana tribe in Kenya also practised marriage by abduction. In this culture, bridal kidnapping (\"akomari\") occurred before any formal attempts to arrange a marriage with a bride's family. According to one scholar, a successful bridal kidnapping raised the abductor's reputation in his community, and allowed him to negotiate a lower bride price with his wife's family. Should an attempted abductor fail to seize his bride, he was bound to pay a bride price to the woman's family, provide additional gifts and payments to the family, and to have an arranged marriage (\"akota\").\n\nThe practice is known as ukuthwalwa or simply thwala in among the nguni speaking tribes. The Basotho call it Tjhobediso. Among Zulu people, thwala, or bride abduction, was once an acceptable way for two young people in love to get married when their families opposed the match (and so actually a form of elopement). Thwala has been abused, however, \"to victimize isolated rural women and enrich male relatives.\"\n\nIn Central Asia, bride kidnapping exists in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Karakalpakstan, an autonomous region of Uzbekistan. Though origin of the tradition in the region is disputed, the rate of nonconsensual bride kidnappings appears to be increasing in several countries throughout Central Asia as the political and economic climate changes.\n\nDespite its illegality, in many primarily rural areas, bride kidnapping, known as \"ala kachuu\" (to take and flee), is an accepted and common way of taking a wife. A recent victimization survey in Kyrgyzstan (2015) included the crime of kidnapping of young women for marriage. Fourteen percent of married women answered that they were kidnapped at the time and that two thirds of these cases were consensual, the woman knew the man and had agreed with it up front. This means that about five percent of current marriages in Kyrgyzstan are cases of 'Ala Kachuu'. Five percent is still a lot, but it contradicts the notion that it is ´´accepted and common´´.\n\nThere is another source that mentions much higher numbers. Approximately half of all Kyrgyz marriages include bride kidnapping; of those kidnappings, two thirds are non-consensual. Research by non-governmental organizations give estimates from a low of 40% to between 68 and 75 percent of all marriages in Kyrgyzstan involved bride kidnapping. \n\nBride kidnappings that involve rape do so to psychologically force the would-be bride to accept her kidnapper and his family’s pressure to marry him, since if she then refuses she would never be considered marriageable again. Of 12,000 yearly bride kidnappings in Kyrgyzstan, approximately 2,000 women reported that their kidnapping involved rape by the would-be groom. The matter is somewhat confused by the local use of the term \"bride kidnap\" to reflect practices along a continuum, from forcible abduction and rape (and then, almost unavoidably, marriage), to something akin to an elopement arranged between the two young people, to which both sets of parents have to consent after the act.\n\nAlthough the practice is illegal in Kyrgyzstan, bride kidnappers are rarely prosecuted. This reluctance to enforce the code is in part caused by the pluralistic legal system in Kyrgyzstan where many villages are \"de facto\" ruled by councils of elders and \"aqsaqal\" courts following customary law, away from the eyes of the state legal system. \"Aqsaqal\" courts, tasked with adjudicating family law, property and torts, often fail to take bride kidnapping seriously. In many cases, \"aqsaqal\" members are invited to the kidnapped bride's wedding and encourage the family of the bride to accept the marriage.\n\nIn Kazakhstan, bride kidnapping (\"alyp qashu\") is divided into non-consensual and consensual abductions, \"kelisimsiz alyp qashu\" (\"to take and run without agreement\") and \"kelissimmen alyp qashu\" (\"to take and run with agreement\"), respectively. Though some kidnappers are motivated by the wish to avoid a bride price or the expense of hosting wedding celebrations or a feast to celebrate the girl leaving home, other would-be husbands fear the woman's refusal, or that the woman will be kidnapped by another suitor first. Generally, in nonconsensual kidnappings, the abductor uses either deception (such as offering a ride home) or force (such as grabbing the woman, or using a sack to restrain her) to coerce the woman to come with him. Once at the man's house, one of his female relatives offers the woman a kerchief (\"oramal\") that signals the bride's consent to the marriage. Though in consensual kidnappings, the woman may agree with little hesitation to wear the kerchief, in non-consensual abductions, the woman may resist the kerchief for days. Next, the abductor's family generally asks the \"bride\" to write a letter to her family, explaining that she had been taken of her own free will. As with the kerchief, the woman may resist this step adamantly. Subsequently, the \"groom\" and his family generally issues an official apology to the bride's family, including a letter and a delegation from the groom's household. At this time, the groom's family may present a small sum to replace the bride-price. Though some apology delegations are met cordially, others are greeted with anger and violence. Following the apology delegation, the bride's family may send a delegation of \"pursuers\" (\"qughysnshy\") either to retrieve the bride or to verify her condition and honour the marriage.\n\nA recent victimization survey in Kazakhstan (2018) included the crime of kidnapping of young women for marriage. 4% of married women answered that they were kidnapped at the time and that two thirds of these cases were consensual, the woman knew the man and had agreed with it up front. This means that about 1-1.5% of current marriages in Kazakhstan are the result of non-consensual abductions \n\nIn Karakalpakstan, an autonomous region in Uzbekistan, nearly one fifth of all marriages are conducted by bride kidnapping. Activist groups in the region tie an increase in kidnappings to economic instability. Whereas weddings can be prohibitively expensive, kidnappings avoid both the cost of the ceremony and any bride price. Other scholars report that less desirable males with inferior educations or drug or alcohol problems are more likely to kidnap their brides. In Karakalpakstan, the bride kidnapping sometimes originates out of a dating relationship and, at other times, happens as an abduction by multiple people.\n\nBride kidnapping is an increasing trend in the countries and regions of the Caucasus, both in Georgia in the South and in Dagestan, Chechnya and Ingushetia in the North. In the Caucasian versions of bride-kidnapping, the kidnap victim's family may play a role in attempting to convince the woman to stay with her abductor after the kidnapping, because of the shame inherent in the presumed consummation of the marriage.\n\nThe Dagestan, Chechnya and Ingushetia regions in the Northern Caucasus (in Russia) have also witnessed an increase in bride kidnappings since the fall of the Soviet Union. As in other countries, kidnappers sometimes seize acquaintances to be brides and other times abduct strangers. The social stigma of spending a night in a male's house can be a sufficient motivation to force a young woman to marry her captor. Under Russian law, though a kidnapper who refuses to release his bride could be sentenced to eight to ten years, a kidnapper will not be prosecuted if he releases the victim or marries her with her consent. Bride captors in Chechnya are liable, in theory, to receive also a fine of up to 1 million rubles. As in the other regions, authorities often fail to respond to the kidnappings. In Chechnya, the police failure to respond to bridal kidnappings is compounded by a prevalence of abductions in the region. Several such kidnappings have been captured on video.\n\nResearchers and non-profit organisations describe a rise in bride kidnappings in the North Caucasus in the latter half of the 20th century. In Chechnya, women's rights organisations tie the increase in kidnappings to a deterioration of women's rights under the rule of Chechen president Ramzan Kadyrov.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, both marriage by capture (\"qız qaçırmaq\") and elopement (\"qoşulub qaçmaq\") are relatively common practices. In the Azeri kidnap custom, a young woman is taken to the home of the abductor's parents through either deceit or force. Regardless of whether rape occurs or not, the woman is generally regarded as impure by her relatives, and is therefore forced to marry her abductor. Despite a 2005 Azeri law that criminalised bride kidnapping, the practice places women in extremely vulnerable social circumstances, in a country where spousal abuse is rampant and recourse to law enforcement for domestic matters is impossible. In Azerbaijan, women abducted by bride kidnapping sometimes become slaves of the family who kidnap them.\n\nIn Georgia, bride kidnapping occurs in the south of the country. Although the extent of the problem is not known, non-governmental activists estimate that hundreds of women are kidnapped and forced to marry each year. In a typical Georgian model of bride kidnapping, the abductor, often accompanied by friends, accosts the intended bride, and coerces her through deception or force to enter a car. Once in the car, the victim may be taken to a remote area or the captor's home. These kidnappings sometimes include rape, and may result in strong stigma to the female victim, who is assumed to have engaged in sexual relations with her captor. Women who have been victims of bride kidnapping are often regarded with shame; the victim's relatives may view it as a disgrace if the woman returns home after a kidnapping. In other cases, the kidnapping is a consensual elopement. Human Rights Watch reports that prosecutors often refuse to bring charges against the kidnappers, urging the kidnap victim to reconcile with her aggressor. Enforcing the appropriate laws in this regard may also be a problem because the kidnapping cases often go unreported as a result of intimidation of victims and their families.\n\nMarriage by abduction is also practiced by some patriarchal tribes of Central India. Usually, the groom carries away the bride and the villagers chase them. If they are not found after a few hours, they are considered to be married. There are however, different rules for different tribes.\n\nWhile not technically considered bride kidnapping, in Central India, among the Bhil tribe, there is a large festival called Bhagoria Festival where matchmaking takes place in a peculiar manner. Girls dance in the inner circle and boys in the outer. When the music stops, a boy may elope with a girl.\n\nMarriage by capture is slowly dying today. The Indian government disapproves of it but cannot do much as it comes under the personal laws of the tribal community.\n\nAn estimated one thousand Christian and Hindu women are kidnapped and forced to convert to Islam and marry Muslim men every year in Pakistan.\n\nIn Bali tradition, Balinese men historically must abduct women for marrying.\n\nMarriage by abduction also occurs in traditional Hmong culture, in which it is known as \"zij poj niam\". As in some other cultures, bride kidnapping is generally a joint effort between the would-be groom and his friends and family. Generally, the abductor takes the woman while she is alone. The abductor then sends a message to the kidnap victim's family, informing them of the abduction and the abductor's intent to marry their daughter. If the victim's family manage to find the woman and insist on her return, they might be able to free her from the obligation to marry the man. However, if they fail to find the woman, the kidnap victim is forced to marry the man. The abductor still has to pay a bride price for the woman, generally an increased amount because of the kidnapping. Because of this increased cost (and the general unpleasantness of abduction), kidnapping is usually only a practice reserved for a man with an otherwise blemished chance of securing a bride, because of criminal background, illness or poverty.\n\nOccasionally, members of the Hmong ethnic group have engaged in bride kidnapping in the United States. In some cases, the defendant has been allowed to plead a cultural defense to justify his abduction. This defense has sometimes been successful. In 1985, Kong Moua, a Hmong man, kidnapped and raped a woman from a Californian college. He later claimed that this was an act of \"zij poj niam\" and was allowed to plead to false imprisonment only, instead of kidnapping and rape. The judge in this case considered cultural testimony as an explanation of the man's crime.\n\nUntil the 1940s, marriage by abduction, known as \"qiangqin\" (), occurred in regions of China. According to one scholar, marriage by abduction was sometimes a groom's answer to avoid paying a bride price. In other cases, the scholar argues, it was a collusive act between the bride's parents and the groom to circumvent the bride's consent. \"Qiangqin\", though illegal in imperial China, was common in rural areas, and often became a local \"institution\" that could be carefully planned and undertaken in a public context.\n\nIn one form of a typical \"qiangqin\", the abductor would arrive at a woman's house flanked by around twenty men. While the friends carried the woman away, the \"groom\" would use scissors to cut off the woman's panties. The woman, struggling to preserve her dignity, would be unable to adequately fight off her abductors. The victim would then be taken to the groom's house, where the marriage would be consummated.\n\nChinese scholars theorise that this practice of marriage by abduction became the inspiration for a form of institutionalised public expression for women: the bridal lament. In imperial China, a new bride performed a two- to three-day public song, including chanting and sobbing, that listed her woes and complaints. The bridal lament would be witnessed by members of her family and the local community.\n\nIn recent years bride kidnapping has resurfaced in areas of China. In many cases, the women are kidnapped and sold to men in poorer regions of China, or as far abroad as Mongolia. Reports say that buying a kidnapped bride is nearly one tenth of the price of hosting a traditional wedding. The United States Department of State tie this trend of abducting brides to China's one-child policy, and the consequent gender imbalance as more male children are born than female children.\n\nThere was a custom of bride kidnapping named Ottoi-yomejo (おっとい嫁じょ) in Kagoshima. On June 19, 1959, a man who committed Ottoi-yomejo was sentenced to three years' imprisonment for rape, in Kushira, Kagoshima.\n\nIn Buraku of Kochi, there was the custom of bride kidnapping named \"katagu\" (かたぐ).\n\nThe practice of kidnapping children, teenagers and women from neighbouring tribes and adopting them into the new tribe was common among Native Americans throughout the Americas. The kidnappings were a way of introducing new blood into the group. Captured European women sometimes settled down as adopted members of the tribe and at least one woman, Mary Jemison, refused \"rescue\" when it was offered.\n\nSeveral reports of bride kidnapping for religious reasons have surfaced recently. Most known are the kidnapping of Elizabeth Smart in Utah and the kidnapping of Jaycee Dugard in California. Both perpetrators have been convicted of kidnapping and sexual assault. Other cases exist within some fundamentalist Mormonism around the Utah-Arizona border; however, accurate information is difficult to obtain from these closed communities. Most of these cases are usually referred to as forced marriages, although they are similar to other bride kidnappings around the world.\n\nAmong the Tzeltal community, a Mayan tribe in Chiapas, Mexico, bride kidnapping has been a recurring method of securing a wife. The Tzeltal people are an indigenous, agricultural tribe that is organised patriarchally. Premarital contact between the sexes is discouraged; unmarried women are supposed to avoid speaking with men outside their families. As with other societies, the grooms that engage in bride kidnapping have generally been the less socially desirable mates.\n\nIn the Tzeltal tradition, a girl is kidnapped by the groom, possibly in concert with his friends. She is generally taken to the mountains and raped. The abductor and his future bride often then stay with a relative until the bride's father's anger is reported to have subsided. At that point, the abductor will return to the bride's house to negotiate a bride-price, bringing with him the bride and traditional gifts such as rum.\n\nAmong the Mapuche of Chile, the practice was known as \"casamiento por capto\" in Spanish, and \"ngapitun\" in Mapudungun.\n\nHelena Valero, a Brazilian woman kidnapped by Amazonian Indians in 1937, dictated her story to an Italian anthropologist, who published it in 1965.\n\nBride kidnapping has been documented as a marital practice in some Romani community traditions. In the Romani culture, girls as young as twelve years old may be kidnapped for marriage to teenaged boys. As the Roma population lives throughout Europe, this practice has been seen on multiple occasions in Ireland, England, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Bulgaria and Slovakia. The kidnapping has been theorised as a way to avoid a bride price or as a method of ensuring exogamy. The tradition's normalisation of kidnapping puts young women at higher risk of becoming victims of human trafficking.\n\nMarriage by capture was practised in ancient cultures throughout the Mediterranean area. It is represented in mythology and history by the tribe of Benjamin in the Bible; by the Greek hero Paris stealing the beautiful Helen of Troy from her husband Menelaus, thus triggering the Trojan War; and by the Rape of the Sabine Women by Romulus, the founder of Rome.\nIn 326 A.D., the Emperor Constantine issued an edict prohibiting marriage by abduction. The law made kidnapping a public offence; even the kidnapped bride could be punished if she later consented to a marriage with her abductor. Spurned suitors sometimes kidnapped their intended brides as a method of restoring honor. The suitor, in coordination with his friends, generally abducted his bride while she was out of her house in the course of her daily chores. The bride would then be secreted outside the town or village. Though the kidnapped woman was sometimes raped in the course of the abduction, the stain on her honor from a presumptive consummation of the marriage was sufficient to damage her marital prospects irreversibly. Sometimes, the \"abduction\" masked an elopement.\n\nThe custom of \"fuitina\" was widespread in Sicily and continental southern Italy. In theory and in some cases it was an agreed elopement between two youngsters; in practice it was often a forcible kidnapping and rape, followed by a so-called \"rehabilitating marriage\" (matrimonio riparatore). In 1965, this custom was brought to national attention by the case of Franca Viola, a 17-year-old abducted and raped by a local small-time criminal, with the assistance of a dozen of his friends. When she was returned to her family after a week, she refused to marry her abductor, contrary to local expectation. Her family backed her up, and suffered severe intimidation for their efforts; the kidnappers were arrested and the main perpetrator was sentenced to 11 years in prison.\n\nThe exposure of this \"archaic and intransigent system of values and behavioural mores\" caused great national debate. In 1968, Franca married her childhood sweetheart, with whom she would later have three children. Conveying clear messages of solidarity, Giuseppe Saragat, then president of Italy, sent the couple a gift on their wedding day, and soon afterwards, Pope Paul VI granted them a private audience. A 1970 film, \"La moglie più bella\" (\"The Most Beautiful Wife\") by Damiano Damiani and starring Ornella Muti, is based on the case. Viola never capitalised on her fame and status as a feminist icon, preferring to live a quiet life in Alcamo with her family.\n\nThe law allowing \"rehabilitating marriages\" to protect rapists from criminal proceedings was abolished in 1981.\n\nThe inciting incident for the 12th-century Norman invasion of Ireland was an instance of wife-stealing: in 1167, the King of Leinster Diarmait Mac Murchada had his lands and kingship revoked by order of the High King of Ireland, Ruaidrí Ua Conchobair as punishment for abducting the wife of another king in 1152. This lead Diarmait to seek the assistance of King Henry II of England in order to reclaim his kingdom.\n\nThe abduction of heiresses was an occasional feature in Ireland until 1800, as illustrated in the film \"The Abduction Club\".\n\nIn 2015, Malta was criticized by Equality Now, for a law which, in certain circumstances, can extinguish the punishment for a man who abducts a woman if, following the abduction, the man and woman get married. (Article 199 and Article 200 of the Criminal Code of Malta)\n\nEast Slavic tribes, predecessor tribes to the Russian state, practised bride kidnapping in the eleventh century. The traditions were documented by Russian monk Nestor. According to his \"Chronicles\", the Drevlian tribe captured wives non-consensually, whereas the Radimich, Viatich, and Severian tribes \"captured\" their wives after having come to an agreement about marriage with them. The clergy's increase in influence may have helped the custom to abate.\n\nMarriage by capture occurred among the South Slavs until the beginning of the 1800s. Common in Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, the custom was known as \"otmitza\". The practice was mentioned in a statute in the Politza, the 1605 Croatian legal code. According to leading intellectual and Serbian folk-chronicler Vuk Karadzic, a man would dress for \"battle\" before capturing a woman. Physical force was a frequent element of these kidnappings.\n\nBride kidnapping was also a custom in Bulgaria. With the consent of his parents and the aid of his friends, the abductor would accost his bride and take her to a barn away from the home, as superstition held that pre-marital intercourse might bring bad luck to the house. Whether or not the man raped his bride, the abduction would shame the girl and force her to stay with her kidnapper to keep her reputation. As in other cultures, sometimes couples would elope by staging false kidnappings to secure the parents' consent.\n\nIn Catholic canon law, the impediment of \"raptus\" specifically prohibits marriage between a woman abducted with the intent to force her to marry, and her abductor, as long as the woman remains in the abductor's power. According to the second provision of the law, should the woman decide to accept the abductor as a husband after she is safe, she will be allowed to marry him. The canon defines \"raptus\" as a \"violent\" abduction, accompanied by physical violence or threats, or fraud or deceit. The Council of Trent insisted that the abduction in \"raptus\" must be for the purpose of marriage to count as an impediment to marriage.\n\nMost Islamic scholars take the view that forced marriage is forbidden.\n\nBride capture has been reflected in feature films from many cultures, sometimes humorously, sometimes as social commentary.\n\nBride kidnapping is depicted as a frontier solution in the 1954 Hollywood musical \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\". The 1960 Hong Kong film \"Qiangpin\" (\"The Bride Hunter\") portrays the custom in the format of an all-female Shaoxing opera comedy, in which Xia Meng plays a gender-bending role as a man masquerading as a woman. Bride kidnapping is displayed somewhat humorously in Pedro Almodóvar's 1990 Spanish hit \"¡Átame!\" (\"Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!\"), starring Antonio Banderas and Victoria Abril. It is the underlying theme behind the 2005 Korean movie \"The Bow\". In the 2006 comedy \"\", the eponymous fictional reporter Borat, played by British comedian/satirist Sacha Baron Cohen, attempts to kidnap Canadian actress Pamela Anderson in order to take her as his wife. He brings a \"wedding sack\" which he has made for the occasion, suggesting that such kidnappings are a tradition in his parody of Kazakhstan.\n\nOn a more serious note, a 1970 Italian film, \"La moglie più bella\" (\"The Most Beautiful Wife\") by Damiano Damiani and starring Ornella Muti, is based on the story of Franca Viola, described above. However, before the national debate caused by the Viola case, a 1964 satire directed by Pietro Germi, \"Seduced and Abandoned\" (\"Sedotta e abbandonata\"), treated the Sicilian custom as a dark comedy. The 2009 film \"Baarìa - la porta del vento\" shows a consensual \"fuitina\" in 20th-century Sicily (atypically having the couple enclosed in the girl's house) as the only way the lovers can avoid the girl's arranged marriage to a richer man.\n\nSome Russian films and literature depict bride kidnapping in the Caucasus. There is a Soviet comedy entitled \"Kidnapping, Caucasian Style\" (, literally translated as \"The Girl Prisoner of the Caucasus\"), where a bride kidnapping occurs in an unidentified Caucasian country. The 2007 Kyrgyz film \"Pure Coolness\" also revolves around the bride kidnapping custom, mistaken identity, and the clash between modern urban expectations and the more traditional countryside.\n\nIn 2005, a documentary film entitled \"Bride Kidnapping in Kyrgyzstan\" made by Petr Lom was presented at the UNAFF 2005 festival, and subsequently on PBS and Investigation Discovery (ID) in the United States. The film met controversy in Kyrgyzstan because of ethical concerns about the filming of real kidnappings.\n\nIn 2012, the website Vice.com did a full documentary film about bride kidnapping in Kyrgyzstan.\n\nIn Frances Burney's novel, \"Camilla\" (1796), the heroine's sister, Eugenia, is kidnapped by an adventurer called Alphonso Bellamy. Eugenia decides to stay with her husband on the grounds that she believes her word is a solemn oath. Eugenia is fifteen years old, and so underage, and is coerced into the marriage—both were grounds for treating the marriage as illegal.\n\nA Sherlock Holmes story features bride kidnapping. In \"The Adventure of the Solitary Cyclist\", a woman is employed as a governess by a man who knows that she will soon inherit a fortune, with the intent of a confederate marrying her. The ceremony does eventually occur, but is void.\n\nThe manga Otoyomegatari \"A Bride's Story\" takes place in central Asia. The heroine is married to a boy in an outside clan, but regrets regarding this decision occur when her original clan has problems bearing heirs. Her birth family comes to retrieve her with the intention of marrying her to someone else, but without success. Her new family tells the invaders that the girl has been impregnated, which would be the last seal on the marriage. They doubt this has occurred as the groom is very young and, desperate, they resort to a kidnap attempt, but again fail.\n\nThe fantasy novel \"A Storm of Swords\" features marriage by capture (or \"stealing a woman\") as the traditional form of marriage north of the Wall. The Free Folk consider it a test for a man to \"steal\" a wife and outwit her attempts on his lifelong enough for her to respect his strength and come to love him. More often, though, marriages by capture are conducted between a couple already in love, an elopement without the extra element of attempted murder. Jon Snow and Ygritte have such a marriage by capture, although at the time Jon was ignorant of the custom and thought he was merely taking her prisoner. The Ironborn are also known to practice this custom, taking secondary wives while reaving the mainland, which they refer to as \"salt wives\".\n\nThe Tamora Pierce fantasy novel The Will of the Empress includes bride kidnapping as a major plot point and has extensive discussions of the morality of bride kidnapping. Multiple characters are kidnapped for the purpose of marriage during the novel, which is used as a warning against it (in keeping with the women's rights focus of her series), particularly in the case of poor women or those without social support systems.\n\nIn the BBC radio and television comedy series \"The League of Gentlemen\", the character Papa Lazarou comes to the fictional town of Royston Vasey under the guise of a peg-seller. He seeks to kidnap women by entering their homes, talking gibberish to them (Gippog) and persuading them to hand over their wedding rings. He 'names' them all 'Dave', and, after obtaining their rings, proclaims; \"you're my wife now\".\nIn \"Criminal Minds\", season 4, episode 13 titled \"Bloodline\" depicts bride kidnapping.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40411581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40411581", "title": "Canadian Somali Congress", "text": "Canadian Somali Congress\n\nThe Canadian Somali Congress (CSC) is a Somali community organization based in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nLawyer Ahmed Hussen serves as the CSC's national President.\n\nThe body works closely with national and regional authorities to strengthen civic relations. Among other initiatives, the Canadian Somali Congress has formed a partnership with the Canadian International Peace Project and Canadian Jewish Congress to establish the Canadian Somali-Jewish Mentorship Project, the first national mentoring and development project between a sizable Muslim community and the Jewish community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3005126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005126", "title": "Chora Church", "text": "Chora Church\n\nThe Church of the Holy Saviour in Chora (, ) is a medieval Byzantine Greek Orthodox church preserved as the Chora Museum in the Edirnekapı neighborhood of Istanbul. The neighborhood is situated in the western part of the municipality () of the Fatih district. In the 16th century, during the Ottoman era, the church was converted into a mosque; it became a museum in 1948. The interior of the building is covered with some of the oldest and finest surviving Byzantine mosaics and frescoes; they were uncovered and restored after the building was secularized and turned into a museum.\n\nThe Chora Church was originally built as part of a monastery complex outside the walls of Constantinople, to the south of the Golden Horn. Literally translated, the church's full name was the Church of the Holy Saviour in the Country: although \"The Church of the Holy Redeemer in the Fields\" would be a more natural rendering of the name in English. (Greek , \"hē Ekklēsia tou Hagiou Sōtēros en tēi Chōrai\"). The last part of that name, Chora, referring to its location originally outside of the walls, became the shortened name of the church. The original church on this site was built in the early 4th century, and stood outside of the 4th century walls of Constantine the Great. However, when Theodosius II built his formidable land walls in 413–414, the church became incorporated within the city's defences, but retained the name \"Chora\". The name must have carried symbolic meaning, as the mosaics in the narthex describe Christ as the \"Land of the Living\" (, \"hē Chōra tōn zōntōn\") and Mary, the Mother of Jesus, as the \"Container of the Uncontainable\" (, \"hē Chōra tou Achōrētou\").\n\nThe majority of the fabric of the current building dates from 1077–1081, when Maria Dukaina, the mother-in-law of Alexius I Comnenus, rebuilt the Chora Church as an inscribed cross or quincunx: a popular architectural style of the time. Early in the 12th century, the church suffered a partial collapse, perhaps due to an earthquake. The church was rebuilt by Isaac Comnenus, Alexius's third son. However, it was only after the third phase of building, two centuries after, that the church as it stands today was completed. The powerful Byzantine statesman Theodore Metochites endowed the church with many of its fine mosaics and frescos. Theodore's impressive decoration of the interior was carried out between 1315 and 1321. The mosaic-work is the finest example of the Palaeologian Renaissance. The artists remain unknown. In 1328, Theodore was sent into exile by the usurper Andronicus III Palaeologus. However, he was allowed to return to the city two years later, and lived out the last two years of his life as a monk in his Chora Church.\n\nIn the late 13th and early 14th centuries, the monastery was home to the scholar Maximus Planudes, who was responsible for the restoration and reintroduction of Ptolemy's \"Geography\" to the Byzantines and, ultimately, to Renaissance Italy. During the last siege of Constantinople in 1453, the Icon of the Theotokos Hodegetria, considered the protector of the City, was brought to Chora in order to assist the defenders against the assault of the Ottomans.\n\nAround fifty years after the fall of the city to the Ottomans, Atık Ali Paşa, the Grand Vizier of Sultan Bayezid II, ordered the Chora Church to be converted into a mosque — \"Kariye Camii\". Due to the prohibition against iconic images in Islam, the mosaics and frescoes were covered behind a layer of plaster. This and frequent earthquakes in the region have taken their toll on the artwork.\n\nIn 1948, Americans Thomas Whittemore and Paul A. Underwood, from the Byzantine Institute of America and the Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, sponsored a restoration program. From that time on, the building ceased to be a functioning mosque. In 1958, it was opened to the public as a museum — \"Kariye Müzesi\".\n\nThe Chora Church is not as large as some of the other surviving Byzantine churches of Istanbul (it covers 742.5 m²) but it is unique among them, because of its almost completely still extant internal decoration. The building divides into three main areas: the entrance hall or \"narthex\", the main body of the church or \"naos\", and the side chapel or \"parecclesion\". The building has six domes: two in the esonarthex, one in the parecclesion and three in the naos.\n\nThe main, west door of the Chora Church opens into the narthex. It divides north-south into the \"exonarthex\" and \"esonarthex\".\n\nThe exonarthex (or outer narthex) is the first part of the church that one enters. It is a transverse corridor, 4 m wide and 23 m long, which is partially open on its eastern length into the parallel esonarthex. The southern end of the exonarthex opens out through the esonarthex forming a western ante-chamber to the parecclesion. The mosaics that decorate the exonarthex include:\n\n\nThe esonarthex (or inner narthex) is similar to the exonarthex, running parallel to it. Like the exonarthex, the esonarthex is 4 m wide, but it is slightly shorter, 18 m long. Its central, eastern door opens into the naos, whilst another door, at the southern end of the esonarthex opens into the rectangular ante-chamber of the parecclesion. At its northern end, a door from the esonarthex leads into a broad west-east corridor that runs along the northern side of the naos and into the prothesis. The esonarthex has two domes. The smaller is above the entrance to the northern corridor; the larger is midway between the entrances into the naos and the pareclession.\n\n\nThe mosaics in the first three bays of the inner narthex give an account of the Life of the Virgin, and her parents. Some of them are as follows:\n\nThe central doors of the esonarthex lead into the main body of the church, the \"naos\". The largest dome in the church (7.7 m diameter) is above the centre of the naos. Two smaller domes flank the modest apse: the northern dome is over the prothesis, which is linked by short passage to the bema; the southern dome is over the diaconicon, which is reached via the parecclesion.\n\nTo the right of the esonarthex, doors open into the side chapel, or \"parecclesion\". The parecclesion was used as a mortuary chapel for family burials and memorials. The second largest dome (4.5 m diameter) in the church graces the centre of the roof of the parecclesion. A small passageway links the parecclesion directly into the naos, and off this passage can be found a small oratory and a storeroom. The parecclesion is covered in frescoes:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27405138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27405138", "title": "Chreia", "text": "Chreia\n\nThe chreia or chria () was, in antiquity and the Byzantine Empire, both a genre of literature and one of the progymnasmata.\n\nA chreia was a brief, useful (χρεία means \"use\") anecdote about a particular character. That is, a chreia was shorter than a narration—often as short as a single sentence—but unlike a maxim, it was attributed to a character. Usually it conformed to one of a few patterns, the most common being \"On seeing...\" (ιδών or \"cum vidisset\"), \"On being asked...\" (ἐρωτηθείς or \"interrogatus\"), and \"He said...\" (ἔφη or \"dixit\").\n\nThe following chreia, the most common in ancient sources, is illustrative:\n\nChreiai could be silly:\n\nOr solemn:\n\nWise:\n\nOr witty:\n\nOr all of these:\n\nAs a literary genre the chreia was a subject of collection. Scholars such as Plutarch or Seneca kept their own private collections of chreiai. Published collections were also available. The chreia is primarily known, however, for its role in education. Students were introduced to simple chreiai almost as soon as they could read. Later they practiced the complex grammar of Greek by putting these chreiai through changes of voice and tense. As one of the last stages in their preparation for rhetoric—this is where chreiai serve as one of the progymnasmata—they would elaborate the theme of a chreiai into a formal eight-paragraph essay. The student would praise, paraphrase, explain, contrast, compare, provide an example, make a judgment, and, in conclusion, exhort the reader.\n\nChreiai are also common in the New Testament, mainly in the Gospels. An example is in Mark 13: 1-2:\n\nThe famous passage in Luke 20: 21-25 also has the typical structure of a chreia, though its length is somewhat unusual:\n\n"}
{"id": "12230179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12230179", "title": "Civil society campaign", "text": "Civil society campaign\n\nA civil society campaign is one that is intended to mobilize public support and use democratic tools such as lobbying in order to instigate social change. Civil society campaigns can seek local, national or international objectives. They can be run by dedicated single-issue groups such as Baby Milk Action, or by professional non-governmental organisations (NGOs), such as the World Development Movement, who may have several campaigns running at any one time. Larger coalition campaigns such as 2005's Make Poverty History may involve a combination of NGOs.\n\nEffective campaigning can sometimes achieve much more than good works or giving to charity. For example, the Jubilee 2000 debt campaign persuaded G7 governments to cancel $100 billion of debt owned by poor countries, releasing more money for development than 1,000 years of Christian Aid in weeks. In the UK, ASH (Action on Smoking and Health)’s campaign for a ban on smoking in public places in 2006 saved over 2,000 lives and billions of pounds a year. The Empty Homes Agency is working with UK local authorities to bring thousands of properties into use as a result of a successful amendment to the UK Housing Act 2004.\n\nCampaigning is increasingly recognised as an important way for NGOs to achieve their objectives. Many charities employ campaigners, produce campaigning materials and train their supporters to campaign. The Charity Commission for England and Wales says that “charities may undertake campaigning and political activity as a positive way of furthering or supporting their purposes.”\n\nSome organisations, such as the Centre for Policy Studies, want to keep charities and community groups out of politics. Many NGOs and community groups are wary of campaigning. They worry about being political or offending their funders.\n\nThe problems voluntary organisations deal with often need political action, as well as good works. Over 200 years ago there were charities for the welfare of slaves, but abolishing the institution of slavery was also necessary. There is still a lot wrong with the world about which to campaign. Not all problems can be solved by campaigning. Sometimes it is better to provide a service, as a private business, a social enterprise or a charity. But many problems are best solved by influencing the policies and actions of an industry, firm, public service or government rather than trying to fix them yourself.\n\nMost campaigns are small, such as improving play space in a park, creating access for people with disabilities or changing work practices. Some tackle very big issues, like climate change, world poverty and injustice. Many campaigns don’t get anywhere or make very slow progress. Some even undermine their own cause, because they turn people off or make mistakes. Influencing others takes skill and knowledge as well as commitment.\n\nA key element of campaigning is researching and offering policy suggestions. A campaigning organisation will usually attempt to keep track of legislative processes, and mobilise its supporter base to provide mass lobbies at critical junctures. [1]\n\nWhile civil society campaigners may come from a range of political backgrounds, modern campaigning owes its largest debt to the ideas of the Situationists, such as Guy Debord, who recognised that as society falls increasingly under the thrall of the spectacle, it is impossible to generate political momentum without existing in the visual plane.\nA frequent tactic of civil society campaigns is thus the deployment of high-profile stunts and actions to draw attention to their cause. An example of a stunt is the group Fathers4Justice dressing as popular superheroes and scaling tall buildings to draw attention to their cause. The occupation of the Brent Spar platform by Greenpeace to prevent Shell dumping it at sea was an action rather than a stunt as it had intrinsic influence as well as generating publicity. [2]\n\nDirect action is politically motivated activity undertaken by individuals, groups, or governments to achieve political goals outside of normal social/political channels.\n\nHuman rights refer to the \"basic rights and freedoms to which all humans are entitled.\" Campaigners use the Human Rights Act, such as the right to life and liberty, freedom of expression, to further their cause.\n\nSome campaigners use the arts to get their message across. For example, radical cheerleading is used at demonstrations to promote a radical message in a media-friendly, people-friendly way.\n\nA demonstration is a form of nonviolent action by groups of people in favor of a political or other cause, normally consisting of walking in a march and a meeting (rally) to hear speakers\n\nA petition is a request to change something, most commonly made to a government official or public entity\n\nThe use of social media is helping campaigners to recruit members and communicate. Social media can take many different forms, including Internet forums, weblogs, social blogs, wikis, podcasts, pictures and video.\n\nIn the UK, Parliamentary Outreach works with NGOs to help them to understand Parliamentary processes\n\nCampaigners can now use Freedom of Information legislation to request Government held information and receive it freely or at minimum cost.\n"}
{"id": "893432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893432", "title": "Clothes line", "text": "Clothes line\n\nA clothes line or washing line is any type of rope, cord, or twine that has been stretched between two points (e.g. two sticks), outside or indoors, above the level of the ground. Clothing that has recently been washed is hung along the line to dry, using clothes pegs or clothespins. Washing lines are attached either from a post or a wall, and are frequently located in back gardens, or on balconies. Longer washing lines often have props holding up sections in the middle due to the weight of the usually wet clothing.\n\nMore elaborate rotary washing lines save space and are typically retractable and square or triangular in shape, with multiple lines being used (such as the Hills Hoist from Australia). Some can be folded up when not in use (although there is a very minor hazard of getting fingers caught, so there is usually a safety button).\n\nIn Scotland, many tenement buildings have a \"drying green\", which is a communal area predominantly used for clothes lines – it may also be used as a recreational space - as well as a clothes horse connected to a pulley system inside which can be used in the frequently cold winter weather.\n\n\n\nLaundry may be dried indoors rather than outdoors for a variety of reasons including:\n\n\nSeveral types of devices are available for indoor drying. A drying rack or clotheshorse can help save space in an apartment, or clothes lines can be strung in the basement during the winter. Small loads can simply be draped over furniture or a shower curtain pole. The drying time indoors will typically be longer than outdoor drying because of the lack of direct solar radiation and the convective assistance of the wind.\n\nThe evaporation of the moisture from the clothes will cool the indoor air and increase the humidity level, which may or may not be desirable. In cold, dry weather, moderate increases in humidity make most people feel more comfortable. In warm weather, increased humidity makes most people feel even hotter. Increased humidity can also increase growth of fungi, which can cause health problems.\n\nAn average-sized wash load will convert approximately of ambient heat into latent heat that is stored in the evaporated water, as follows. A typical 4 kg load of laundry can contain 2.2 kg of water, after being spun in a laundry machine. To determine how much heat has been converted in drying a load of laundry, weigh the clothes when they are wet and then again after the clothes have dried. The difference is the weight of the water that was evaporated from them. Multiply that weight in kg by 2,257 kJ/kg, which is the heat of vaporization per kilogram, to obtain the number of kilojoules that went into evaporating the water, or multiply by 0.6250 kWh/kg to get kilowatt-hours. (Note: If the moisture later condenses inside the house, the latent heat will be converted back into ambient heat which could increase the temperature of the air in the room slightly.) To obtain a good approximation of the effect this would have in a particular situation, the process can be traced on a psychrometric chart.\n\nVarious factors determine the duration of drying and can help to decide rather to use a drier or a clothes line\n\nLaundry may be dried outdoors when the temperature is well below the freezing point. First, the moisture in the laundry items will freeze and the clothing will become stiff. Then the frost on the clothes will sublimate into the air, leaving the items dry. It takes a long time and it is usually much quicker to dry them indoors; however, indoor drying removes heat from the air so it is a trade-off between speed and energy efficiency.\n\nControversy surrounding the use of clothes lines has prompted many governments to pass \"right-to-dry\" laws allowing their use. According to Ian Urbina, a reporter for \"The New York Times\", \"the majority of the 60 million people who now live in the country’s roughly 300,000 private communities\" are forbidden from using outdoor clothes lines.\n\n, the states of Florida, Colorado, Hawaii, Arizona, California, Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, and Wisconsin had passed laws forbidding bans on clothes lines, while Utah allows local jurisdictions to forbid such bans. At least eight states restrict homeowners' associations from forbidding the installation of solar-energy systems, and lawyers have debated whether or not those laws might apply to clothes lines. A British filmmaker, Steven Lake, was planning to release a documentary in 2011 titled \"Drying for Freedom\" about the clothes-line controversy in the United States.\n\nIn Canada, the province of Nova Scotia's first NDP government passed \"An Act to Prevent Prohibitions on the Use of Clotheslines\" on December 10, 2010 to allow all homeowners in the province to use clotheslines, regardless of restrictive covenants.\nThe province of Ontario lifted bans on clothes lines in 2008.\n\nSome other affluent suburban municipalities such as Hampstead, Québec or Outremont, Québec also prohibit clotheslines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54174367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54174367", "title": "Cuisine of Nauru", "text": "Cuisine of Nauru\n\nThe cuisine of Nauru is the traditional cuisine of the island state on the Pacific Ocean. Due to the diversity of the country's inhabitants, the cuisine is highly diverse.\n\nNauru has the world's highest rate of obesity.\n\nLike its other island neighbors, Nauruans consume a large amount of seafood, as well as foods made from coconuts and bananas. Coconut milk is also used extensively in Nauru.\n\nNauruan cuisine is greatly influenced by Chinese cuisine. The Chinese are the major foreign community of the country, and there are a number of Chinese restaurants on the island, most notably in Yaren. In 2010, there were 138 Chinese restaurants in Nauru, in a country of hardly 10,000 people.\n\nNauruan cuisine also shows strong Western influence.\n\nThe majority of Nauruans are Christians, and members of the Nauru Congregational Church. They often celebrate Christmas with cakes made from banana and coconut.\n\nSome desserts, such as coconut mousse, are consumed on special occasions.\n"}
{"id": "13343143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13343143", "title": "Deel (clothing)", "text": "Deel (clothing)\n\nA deel ( ; Buryat: дэгэл, ) is an item of traditional clothing commonly worn since centuries ago among the Mongols and other nomadic tribes of Central Asia, including various Turkic peoples, and can be made from cotton, silk, wool, or brocade. \nThe deel is still commonly worn by both men and women outside major towns, especially by herders. In urban areas, deels are mostly only worn by elderly people, or on festive occasions. The deel appears similar to a caftan or an old European folded tunic. Deels typically reach to below the wearer's knees and fan out at the bottom and are commonly blue, olive, or burgundy, though there are deels in a variety of other colors.\n\nThe deel looks like a large overcoat when not worn. Instead of buttoning together in the middle, the sides are pulled against the wearer's body, the right flap close to the body with the left covering. On the right side of the wearer are typically 5 or 6 clasps to hold the top flap in place. There is one clasp below the armpit, three at the shoulder, and either one or two at the neckline.\n\nA deel is traditionally worn with a large sash, usually made of silk but leather belts with large, ornate buckles have become more common in the modern era. The area between the flaps and above the belt creates a large pocket in which Mongolians keep many things, Mongolian men will occasionally even carry silver bowl or cup, snuff box in their deel. Though there is no major difference in material or outline between male and female deels, females tend to wear the \"pocket\" closer (that is, women often prefer a more snug-fitting deel), while males' may have both larger pockets, looser fit, and wider sleeves.\n\nIn Mongolia, the usage of the word deel has been extended to cover other long winter coats as well. For example, fur and leather overcoats of western design are referred to as \"\"nekhii deel\" and \"sawkhin deel\"\", respectively, meaning \"fur deel\", \"leather deel\" and \"cashmere deel\", which is made of the luxurious material cashmere. Nevertheless, other Mongol regions, such as Bortala in Xinjiang retain the specific meaning of the word \"deel\" as the traditional garment, and refer to other overcoats as \"olondoi\".\n\nDeel design varies among cultures, ethnic groups and time periods to a certain degree. There are even distinct variations among different Mongol tribes mostly on the design of the upper chest opening edges. For instance the Khalkha Mongol deel opening edges are round while a Buryat deel's is square. It can also vary among other tribes such as Chakhar, Torguud, and Uzemchin. Deels are designed for different occasions and environments. The design also varies due to function. There are deels for ceremonies like weddings and holidays and deels for daily wear. Deels for special occasions have their outer layer made of silk while the common deels are usually made of wool, cotton and other relatively inexpensive materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "422075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422075", "title": "Earworm", "text": "Earworm\n\nAn earworm, sometimes known as a brainworm, sticky music, stuck song syndrome, or Involuntary Musical Imagery (IMI) is a catchy piece of music that continually repeats through a person's mind after it is no longer playing. Phrases used to describe an earworm include \"musical imagery repetition\", \"involuntary musical imagery\", and \"stuck song syndrome\". The word \"\" is possibly a calque from the German \"\". The earliest known usage is in Desmond Bagley's 1978 novel \"Flyaway\".\n\nResearchers who have studied and written about the phenomenon include Theodor Reik, Sean Bennett, Oliver Sacks, Daniel Levitin, James Kellaris, Philip Beaman, Vicky Williamson, and, in a more theoretical perspective, Peter Szendy. The phenomenon should not be confused with palinacousis, a rare medical condition caused by damage to the temporal lobe of the brain that results in auditory hallucinations.\n\nResearcher Vicky Williamson at Goldsmiths, University of London, found in an uncontrolled study that earworms correlated with music exposure, but could also be triggered by experiences that trigger the memory of a song (involuntary memory) such as seeing a word that reminds one of the song, hearing a few notes from the song, or feeling an emotion one associates with the song. The list of songs collected in the study showed no particular pattern, other than popularity.\n\nAccording to research by James Kellaris, 98% of individuals experience earworms. Women and men experience the phenomenon equally often, but earworms tend to last longer for women and irritate them more. Kellaris produced statistics suggesting that songs with lyrics may account for 73.7% of earworms, whereas instrumental music may cause only 7.7%.\n\nIn 2010, published data in the \"British Journal of Psychology\" directly addressed the subject, and its results support earlier claims that earworms are usually 15 to 30 seconds in length and are more common in those with an interest in music.\n\nScientists at Western Washington University found that engaging working memory in moderately difficult tasks (such as anagrams, Sudoku puzzles, or reading a novel) was an effective way of stopping earworms and of reducing their recurrence. Another publication points out that melodic music has a tendency to demonstrate repeating rhythm which may lead to endless repetition, unless a climax can be achieved to break the cycle.\n\nResearch reported in 2015 by the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences at the University of Reading demonstrated that chewing gum could help by similarly blocking the sub-vocal rehearsal component of auditory short-term or \"working\" memory associated with generating and manipulating auditory and musical images.\n\nJean Harris, who murdered Herman Tarnower, was obsessed with the song \"Put the Blame on Mame\", which she first heard in the film \"Gilda\". She would recall this regularly for over 33 years and could hold a conversation while playing it in her mind.\n\nMark Twain's 1876 story \"A Literary Nightmare\" (also known as \"Punch, Brothers, Punch\") is about a jingle that one can get rid of only by transferring it to another person.\n\nIn 1943 Henry Kuttner published the short story \"Nothing but Gingerbread Left\" about a song engineered to damage the Nazi war effort, culminating in Adolf Hitler being unable to continue a speech.\n\nA short story, \"Pie and Punch and You-Know-Whats\" in Robert McCloskey's 1951 Homer Price collection \"Centerburg Tales\" features a earworm from a jukebox that nearly infects the whole town.\n\nIn Alfred Bester's 1953 novel \"The Demolished Man\", the protagonist uses a jingle specifically crafted to be a catchy, irritating nuisance as a tool to block mind readers from reading his mind.\n\nIn Arthur C. Clarke's 1957 science fiction short story \"The Ultimate Melody\", a scientist, Gilbert Lister, develops the ultimate melody – one that so compels the brain that its listener becomes completely and forever enraptured by it. As the storyteller, Harry Purvis, explains, Lister theorized that a great melody \"made its impression on the mind because it fitted in with the fundamental electrical rhythms going on in the brain.\" Lister attempts to abstract from the hit tunes of the day to a melody that fits in so well with the electrical rhythms that it dominates them completely. He succeeds and is found in a catatonic state from which he never awakens.\n\nIn Fritz Leiber's Hugo Award-nominated short story \"Rump-Titty-Titty-Tum-TAH-Tee\" (1959), the title describes a rhythmic drumbeat so powerful that it rapidly spreads to all areas of human culture, until a counter-rhythm is developed that acts as an antidote.\n\nIn Joe Simpson's 1988 book \"Touching the Void\", he talks about not being able to get the tune \"Brown Girl in the Ring\" by Boney M out of his head. The book tells of his survival, against the odds, after a mountaineering accident in the remote Siula Grande region of South America. Alone, badly injured, and in a semi-delirious state, he is confused as to whether he is imagining the music or really hearing it.\n\nIn episode 20 of of \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", entitled \"Ear Worm\" (2010), SpongeBob gets a song stuck in his head called \"Musical Doodle\". The episode refers to the earworm as a physical creature that enters one's head upon one's listening to a catchy song.\n\nIn the \"Dexter's Laboratory\" episode titled \"Head Band\", a contagious group of viruses force their host to sing what they are saying to the same \"boy band\" tune. The only way to be cured of the Boy Band Virus is for the viruses to break up and start their own solo careers.\n\nE. B. White's 1933 satirical short story \"The Supremacy of Uruguay\" (reprinted in \"Timeless Stories for Today and Tomorrow\") relates a fictional episode in the history of Uruguay where a powerful earworm is discovered in a popular American song. The Uruguayan military builds a squadron of pilotless aircraft armed with phonographs playing a highly amplified recording of the earworm, and conquers the entire world by reducing the citizens of all nations to mindless insanity. \"[T]he peoples were hopelessly mad, ravaged by an ineradicable noise ... No one could hear anything except the noise in his own head.\"\n\nIn the episode of \"The Big Bang Theory\" titled \"The Earworm Reverberation\", Sheldon obsesses about a tune stuck in his head. He eventually figures out that it is \"Darlin'\" by The Beach Boys.\n\nThe Wise Guys, a German pop band/a cappella group, created a song called Ohrwurm that tells a story about a man with a song stuck in his head that he can't get out and is designed to give you an earworm.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246996", "title": "Flag of the Philippines", "text": "Flag of the Philippines\n\nThe National Flag of the Philippines () is a horizontal flag bicolor with equal bands of royal blue and scarlet, and with a white, equilateral triangle at the hoist. In the center of the triangle is a golden-yellow sun with eight primary rays, each representing a Philippine province. At each vertex of the triangle is a five-pointed, golden-yellow star, each of which representing one of the country's three main island groups—Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao, the central star originally referred to Panay.\n\nA unique feature of this flag is its ability to indicate a state of war if it is displayed with the red side on top, which is effectively achieved by flipping the flag upside-down.\n\nThe flag's length is twice its width, giving it an aspect ratio of 1:2. The length of all the sides of the white triangle are equal to the width of the flag. Each star is oriented in such manner that one of its tips points towards the vertex at which it is located. Moreover, the gap-angle between two neighbours of the 8 ray-bundles is as large as the angle of one ray-bundle (so 22.5°), with each major ray having double the thickness of its two minor rays. The golden sun is not exactly in the center of the triangle but shifted slightly to the right. This flag is waved when having ceremonies.\n\nThe shade of blue used in the flag has varied over time, beginning with the original color \"lazuli Rosco\". The exact nature of this shade is uncertain, but a likely candidate is the blue of the Cuban flag, which a theory says influenced the flag's design. Specifications for the flag's colors with shades matching those used in the American flag were adopted by the National Historical Institute in 1955. President Ferdinand Marcos ordered the colors restored to the original light blue and red of the Cuban flag in 1985, but this was immediately rescinded after the 1986 People Power Revolution that removed him from power. For the 1998 independence centennial celebrations, the Flag and Heraldic Code of the Philippines (RA 8491) was passed, designating royal blue as the official variant.\n\nThe flag's colors are specified by Republic Act 8491 in terms of their cable number in the system developed by the Color Association of the United States. The official colors and their approximations in other color spaces are listed below:.\n\nThe Philippine national flag has a rectangular design that consists of a white equilateral triangle, symbolizing liberty, equality, and fraternity; a horizontal blue stripe for peace, truth, and justice; and a horizontal red stripe for patriotism and valor. In the center of the white triangle is an eight-rayed golden sun symbolizing unity, freedom, people's democracy, and sovereignty. Each ray represents a province with significant involvement in the 1896 Philippine Revolution against Spain; these provinces are Manila, Bulacan, Cavite, Pampanga, Bataan, Laguna, Batangas, and Nueva Ecija (some sources specify other provinces as alternatives to some of these). However, according to the Declaration of Independence and a research by UP Professor Ambeth Ocampo, the rays of the sun symbolized the first 8 provinces of the Philippines which was declared under martial law during the First Philippine Revolution. Three five-pointed stars, one for each of the triangle's points, stand for the three major island groups where the revolution started: Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao.\n\nThe flag's original symbolism is enumerated in the text of the independence proclamation, which makes reference to an attached drawing, though no record of the drawing has surfaced. The proclamation explains the flag as follows:\nThe symbolism given in the 1898 Proclamation of Philippine Independence differs from the current official explanation. According to the document, the white triangle signifies the emblem of the Katipunan, the secret society that opposed Spanish rule. It says the flag's colors commemorate the flag of the United States as a manifestation of gratitude for American aid against the Spanish during the Philippine Revolution. It also says that one of the three stars represents the island of Panay, rather than the entire Visayan islands. Panay, which recent interpretations call as \"as representative of the entire Visayas region\". The proclamation also declares that the sun represents the gigantic steps made by the sons of the country along the path of Progress and Civilization, and lists Bataan instead of Tarlac among the eight provinces symbolized by the sun's rays.\n\nIt has been common since the 1960s to trace the development of the Philippine flag to the various war standards of the individual leaders of the Katipunan, a pseudo-masonic revolutionary movement that opposed Spanish rule in the Philippines and led the Philippine Revolution. However, while some symbols common to the Katipunan flags would be adopted into the iconography of the Revolution, it is inconclusive whether these war standards can be considered precursors to the present Philippine flag.\n\nThe first flag of the Katipunan was a red rectangular flag with a horizontal alignment of three white Ks (an acronym for the Katipunan's full name, \"Kataas-taasang Kagalang-galangang Katipunan ng mga Anak ng Bayan\" - Supreme and Venerable Society of the Sons of the Nation). The flag's red field symbolized blood, as members of the Katipunan signed their membership papers in their own blood.\n\nThe various leaders of the Katipunan, such as Andrés Bonifacio, Mariano Llanera, and Pío del Pilar, also had individual war standards. The organization was represented in Cavite province by two factions: the \"Magdiwang\" faction and the \"Magdalo\" faction, with each adopting a flag. Both used a white sun. Instead of the letter K the flags bore the symbol for the syllable \"ka\" in Baybayin, the pre-Hispanic writing script of the Tagalogs.\n\nThe Katipunan adopted a new flag in 1897 during an assembly at Naic, Cavite. This new flag was red and depicted a white sun with a face. The sun had eight rays, representing eight provinces of the Philippines.\n\nThe earlier design of the current Philippine flag was conceptualized by Emilio Aguinaldo during his exile in British Hong Kong in 1897. The first flag was sewn by Marcela Mariño Agoncillo, with the help of her daughter Lorenza and Delfina Herbosa Natividad (a niece of \"Propagandista\" José Rizal). It was first displayed in the Battle of Alapan on May 28, 1898.\nThe flag was formally unfurled during the proclamation of independence on June 12, 1898 in Kawit, Cavite. However, a Manila Times article by Augusto de Viana, Chief History Researcher, National Historical Institute, mentions assertions in history textbooks and commemorative rites that the flag was first raised in Alapan, Imus, Cavite, on May 28, 1898, citing Presidential Proclamation No. 374, issued by then-President Diosdado Macapagal on March 6, 1965. The article goes on to claim that historical records indicate that the first display of the Philippine flag took place in Cavite City, when General Aguinaldo displayed it during the first fight of the Philippine Revolution.\n\nThe original design of the flag adopted a mythical sun with a face influenced by Latin American republics Argentina, Peru, and Uruguay; a triangle, representing the Katipunan which inspired by the Eye of Providence in the Great Seal of the United States and the Masonic Triangle and which enshrined Liberté, Égalité, Fraternité; the stripes and colors derived from the American flag. The particular shade of blue of the original flag has been a source of controversy. Based on anecdotal evidence and the few surviving flags from the era, historians argue that the colors of the original flag was influenced by the flags of Cuba and Puerto Rico.\n\nDuring the session of the Malolos Congress, Aguinaldo presented the symbolism of the official flag to the members, delegates and representatives of the assembly as follows:\n\nThe original flag that was first hoisted on May 28, 1898 and unfurled during the Declaration of independence on June 12, 1898 is being preserved at the Gen Emilio Aguinaldo Museum in Baguio City. There were plans to restore the flag by replacing the worn-out portion but the idea was abandoned because matching threads could not be found. The flag is more elaborate than the flag which is currently in use. It bears the embroidered words, \"Libertad, Justicia and Ygualidad\" (Liberty, Justice and Equality) on one side of the flag and \"Fuerzas Expedicionarias del Norte de Luzon\" (Expeditionary forces of Northern Luzon) on the other\n\nHostilities broke out between the Philippines and the United States in 1899. The flag was first flown with the red field up on February 4, 1899 to show that a state of war existed. Aguinaldo was captured by the Americans two years later, and swore allegiance to the United States.\n\nWith the defeat of the Philippine Republic, the Philippines was placed under American colonial rule and the display of the Philippine flag was declared illegal by the Sedition Act of 1907. This law was repealed on October 24, 1919. With the legalization of display of the Philippine flag, the cloth available in most stores was the red and blue of the flag of the United States, so the flag from 1919 onwards adopted the \"National Flag blue\" color. On March 26, 1920, the Philippine Legislature passed Act. No 2928 on March 26, 1920, which legally adopted the Philippine flag as the official flag of the Philippine Islands. Up until the eve of World War II, Flag Day was celebrated on annually on October 30, commemorating the date the ban on the flag was lifted.\n\nThe Commonwealth of the Philippines was inaugurated in 1935. On March 25, 1936, President Manuel L. Quezon issued Executive Order No. 23 which provided for the technical description and specifications of the flag. Among the provisions of the order was the definition of the triangle at the hoist as an equilateral triangle, the definition of the aspect ratio at 1:2, the precise angles of the stars, the geometric and aesthetic design of the sun, and the formal elimination of the mythical face on the sun. The exact shades of colors, however, were not precisely defined. These specifications have remained unchanged and in effect to the present. In 1941, Flag Day was officially moved to June 12, commemorating the date that Philippine independence was proclaimed in 1898.\n\nThe flag was once again banned with the Japanese invasion and occupation of the Philippines beginning in December 1941, to be hoisted again with the establishment of the Second Republic of the Philippines, a client state of Japan. In ceremonies held in October 1943, Emilio Aguinaldo hoisted the flag with the original Cuban blue and red colors restored. The flag was initially flown with the blue stripe up, until President José P. Laurel proclaimed the existence of a state of war with the Allied Powers in 1944. The Commonwealth government-in-exile in Washington, D.C. continued to use the flag with the American colors, and had flown it with the red stripe up since the initial invasion of the Japanese. With the combined forces of the Filipino & American soldiers and the liberation of the Philippines in 1944 to 1945, the flag with the American colors was restored, and it was this flag that was hoisted upon the granting of Philippine independence from the United States on July 4, 1946.\n\nPrior to the 1998 independence centennial celebrations, the provincial government of Zambales lobbied that the sunburst design accommodate a ninth ray, reasoning that their province was also in a state of rebellion in 1896. The Centennial Commission however refuted this change, based on research by the National Historical Institute. In August 2003, then Foreign Affairs Secretary Blas Ople also lobbied for a ninth ray, saying that Quezon province should be added. He reasons that the first uprising against the Spaniards happened at the foot of Mount Banahaw which was led by Hermano Pule in 1841.\n\n, there is a proposal to add a ninth ray to the Philippine flag's sun to represent the Moro people or Filipino Muslims, as well as other indigenous groups as well for their role against colonization. Senator Richard Gordon filed Senate Bill No. 2590 which aimed to amend Flag and Heraldic Code of the Philippines in 2008. This measure was later substituted by Senate Bill No. 3307 which was sponsored by Senator Francis Escudero which was approved in September 2009. The bill was sent to the House of Representatives for concurrence which came up with House Bill 6424. Both S.B. No. 3307 and H.B. 6424 was reconciled by the Bicameral Conference Committee in September 2009. In June 2018, Gordon renewed his campaign to get his proposal passed into law.\n\n, the Ninth Ray movement is among the prominent groups pushing for the addition of a ninth ray to the flag's sun. Proponents of the movement believe that a ninth ray should be added to represent the Muslim and indigenous people of the country who kept colonizers away from their lands.\n\nEmmanuel L. Osorio, one of the founders of the Ninth Ray movement, came up with a proposal adding not only a ninth ray to the flag's sun but also adding a fourth star to the flag representing North Borneo (present-day Sabah), a territory claimed by the Philippines but currently under Malaysian sovereignty. The flag's triangle is changed into a rectangle to accommodate a fourth star. According to Osorio, the star representing Sabah in his proposed flag was added \"in principle\" and said the flag proposal seeks to express the Ninth Ray movement's view that \"if we get Sabah, then it could be represented by the star\".\n\nThere have been numerous proposals as to how the crescent moon should be incorporated into the flag, including one such proposal from former President Fidel V. Ramos.\n\nThe flag should be displayed in all government buildings, official residences, public plazas, and schools every day throughout the year. All other places as may be designated by the National Historical Commission as such. The days of the 28th of May (National Flag Day) and the 12th of June (Independence Day) are designated as flag days, during which all offices, agencies and instrumentalities of government, business establishments, institutions of learning and private homes are enjoined to display the flag. But in recent years, the flag days are now from May 28 to June 30 yearly to promote patriotism and to celebrate the nation's independence.\n\nBy law, the Philippine flag must be permanently hoisted and illuminated at night at the following locations:\nThe display of the Philippine flag in cockpit arenas, casinos, disco venues, night and day clubs, gambling joints and \"places of vice or where frivolity prevails\" is illegal.\n\nThe flag may be flown at half-mast as a sign of mourning. Upon the official announcement of the death of the President or a former President, the flag should be flown at half-mast for ten days. The flag should be flown at half-mast for seven days following the death of the Vice President, the Chief Justice, the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the House of Representatives.\n\nThe flag may also be required to fly at half-mast upon the death of other persons to be determined by the National Historical Institute, for a period less than seven days. The flag shall be flown at half-mast on all the buildings and places where the decedent was holding office, on the day of death until the day of interment of an incumbent member of the Supreme Court, the Cabinet, the Senate or the House of Representatives, and such other persons as may be determined by the National Historical Commission.\n\nWhen flown at half-mast, the flag should be first hoisted to the peak for a moment then lowered to the half-mast position. It should be raised to the peak again before it is lowered for the day.\n\nA bill was filed on 2014, to mandate the flying of the flag at half-mast as a tribute to public school teachers. Under the proposal the flag shall be flown at half-mast for at least five days at the school or district office the deceased teacher was assigned.\n\nThe flag may also be used to cover the caskets of the dead of the military and civil uniformed services, veterans of previous wars, national artists, and outstanding civilians as determined by the local government. In such cases, the flag must be placed such that the white triangle is at the head and the blue portion covers the right side of the casket. The flag should not be lowered to the grave or allowed to touch the ground, but should be solemnly folded and handed to the heirs of the deceased.\n\nThe Philippines does not utilize a separate war flag; instead, the national flag itself is used for this purpose. To indicate a state of war, the red field is flown upwards and is placed on the right (i.e., the observer's left) when hung vertically. In times of peace, however, the blue area is the superior field. The orientation of the flag was used during the Philippine–American War from 1899 to 1901, World War II by the Philippine Commonwealth from 1941 to 1945 and by the Japanese-sponsored Philippine Republic when it declared war against the United Kingdom and the United States in 1944, the coup attempts during President Corazon Aquino's administration, and EDSA III. \n\nThe only instance that the flag was not oriented with red as superior in a state of war was at its debut during the Battle of Alapan in 1898, 15 days before the Philippine Declaration of Independence in Kawit, Cavite.\n\nThe Philippine Flag itself is not eligible to be trademarked according to the Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines (IPOPHIL) since the flag is \"owned by the public\" in line with prohibitions on the flag's usage stated in Republic Act 8491. The Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, which the Philippines is a member of, also prohibits the registration of the state flags of its members as trademark. However both small and large businesses in the Philippines have used elements of the Philippine flag for their intellectual property. When it comes to this concern, the IPOPHIL has allowed businesses to use elements of the flag to invoke the national symbol as long as the intellectual property is neither a \"true representation\" of the Philippine flag nor a \"modification that would amount to defacement of the flag\".\n\nAccording to Republic Act 8491 itself, it shall be prohibited:\n\nThe Act mandates that violators shall, upon conviction, be punished by fine or imprisonment.\n\nThe Pledge of Allegiance to the Philippine flag (distinct from the Patriotic Oath of Allegiance) should be recited while standing with the right hand with palm open raised shoulder high. Individuals whose faith or religious beliefs prohibit them from making such pledge are permitted to excuse themselves, but are required by law to show full respect when the pledge is being rendered by standing at attention.\n\nThe law makes no statement regarding the language in which the pledge must be recited, but the pledge is written (and therefore recited) in the Filipino language.\n\nSpanish, Tagalog and English versions of the national anthem have been given official status throughout Philippine history. However, only the most recent and current \"Filipino\" version is officially recognized by law. The Flag and Heraldic Code, approved on February 12, 1998 specifies, \"Lupang Hinirang\", \"The National Anthem shall always be sung in the national language within or without the country\"; violation of the law is punishable by a fine and imprisonment.\n\nThe National Flag Day in the Philippines is celebrated every May 28, the very day of the 1898 Battle of Alapan. The official National Flag flying period starts from May 28 and ends on Independence Day, June 12, every year, although the flying period for the flag in homes, businesses and public establishments may start on a specified day of May (to be given by the National Historical Commission of the Philippines) and may last until June 30.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52555357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52555357", "title": "Gender reveal", "text": "Gender reveal\n\nA gender reveal party is a celebration where either the guests, the expecting parents, or both find out the sex of the baby.\n\nThe gender reveal party can be seen as an analogue of the baby shower, which also employs the trope of pink (denoting a female) or blue (denoting a male) to designate gender. However, it is typically held earlier, near the moment, formerly private, when parents learn the baby's predicted sex. Gender reveal parties also typically are open to men and women, unlike the traditionally all-female baby shower. The rise of the gender reveal party seems \"inextricably tied to social media.\" YouTube searches report that there are \"more than 500,000 videos of expectant couples slicing cakes, setting off smoke bombs and bashing piñatas to expose one of two colors: pink or blue\". Other methods include the release of balloons from a box.\n\nThe term \"gender reveal\" often criticized as a misnomer, as all available tests measure the child's sex, which may be distinguished from gender.\n\nGender reveal parties have become much more popular due to cell-free fetal DNA testing being available as early as ten weeks; some are marketed as detecting fetal sex as early as five weeks. The DNA test is non-intrusive as it only requires blood from the mother. Previously, the sex of the unborn baby was determined via obstetric ultrasonography between 16–20 weeks. The tests are not perfectly accurate, and in cases of sex chromosome disorders or other abnormalities of development their results may not match those of fetal ultrasound.\n\nA significant issue is that as many as 4% of infants are intersex (formerly known as androgynous or hermaphrodite), though it is incredibly difficult to determine the frequency of these cases.\n\nCritics note the existence of nonbinary gender and reject an essential and inextricable link from sex to gender.\n\nThe parties have been criticized for perpetuating gender stereotypes through themes such as \"Rifles or Ruffles?\" and \"Wheels or Heels?\".\n\nGender parties are also viewed as vain and unnecessary, a holiday championed by party supply companies in order to boost sales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57936783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57936783", "title": "Genetics in fiction", "text": "Genetics in fiction\n\nAspects of genetics including mutation, hybridisation, cloning, genetic engineering, and eugenics have appeared in fiction since the 19th century.\n\nGenetics is a young science, having started in 1900 with the rediscovery of Gregor Mendel's study on the inheritance of traits in pea plants. During the 20th century it developed to create new sciences and technologies including molecular biology, DNA sequencing, cloning, and genetic engineering. The ethical implications were brought into focus with the eugenics movement.\n\nSince then, many science fiction novels and films have used aspects of genetics as plot devices, often taking one of two routes: a genetic accident with disastrous consequences; or, the feasibility and desirability of a planned genetic alteration. The treatment of science in these stories has been uneven and often unrealistic. The film \"Gattaca\" did attempt to portray science accurately but was criticised by scientists.\n\nModern genetics began with the work of the monk Gregor Mendel in the 19th century, on the inheritance of traits in pea plants. Mendel found that visible traits, such as whether peas were round or wrinkled, were inherited discretely, rather than by blending the attributes of the two parents. In 1900, Hugo de Vries and other scientists rediscovered Mendel's research; William Bateson coined the term \"genetics\" for the new science, which soon investigated a wide range of phenomena including mutation (inherited changes caused by damage to the genetic material), genetic linkage (when some traits are to some extent inherited together), and hybridisation (crosses of different species). \n\nEugenics, the production of better human beings by selective breeding, was named and advocated by Charles Darwin's cousin, the scientist Francis Galton, in 1883. It had both a positive aspect, the breeding of more children with high intelligence and good health; and a negative aspect, aiming to suppress \"race degeneration\" by preventing supposedly \"defective\" families with attributes such as profligacy, laziness, immoral behaviour and a tendency to criminality from having children. \n\nMolecular biology, the interactions and regulation of genetic materials, began with the identification in 1944 of DNA as the main genetic material; the genetic code and the double helix structure of DNA was determined by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953. DNA sequencing, the identification of an exact sequence of genetic information in an organism, was developed in 1977 by Frederick Sanger. \n\nGenetic engineering, the modification of the genetic material of a live organism, became possible in 1972 when Paul Berg created the first recombinant DNA molecules (artificially assembled genetic material) using viruses. \n\nCloning, the production of genetically identical organisms from some chosen starting point, was shown to be practicable with the creation of Dolly the sheep from an ordinary body cell in 1996 at the Roslin Institute.\n\nMutation and hybridisation are widely used in fiction, starting in the 19th century with science fiction works such as Mary Shelley's 1818 novel \"Frankenstein\" and H. G. Wells's 1896 \"The Island of Dr Moreau\". \n\nIn her 1977 \"Biological Themes in Modern Science Fiction\", Helen Parker identified two major types of story: \"genetic accident\", the uncontrolled, unexpected and disastrous alteration of a species; and \"planned genetic alteration\", whether controlled by humans or aliens, and the question of whether that would be either feasible or desirable. In science fiction up to the 1970s, the genetic changes were brought about by radiation, breeding programmes, or manipulation with chemicals or surgery (and thus, notes Lars Schmeink, not necessarily by strictly genetic means). Examples include \"The Island of Dr Moreau\" with its horrible manipulations; Aldous Huxley's 1932 \"Brave New World\" with a breeding programme; and John Taine's 1951 \"Seeds of Life\", using radiation to create supermen. After the discovery of the double helix and then recombinant DNA, genetic engineering became the focus for genetics in fiction, as in books like Brian Stableford's tale of a genetically modified society in his 1998 \"Inherit the Earth\", or Michael Marshall Smith's story of organ farming in his 1997 \"Spares\".\n\nComic books have imagined mutated superhumans with extraordinary powers. The DC Universe (from 1939) imagines \"metahumans\"; the Marvel Universe (from 1961) calls them \"mutants\", while the Wildstorm (from 1992) and Ultimate Marvel (2000–2015) Universes name them \"posthumans\". \nStan Lee introduced the concept of mutants in the Marvel X-Men books in 1963; the villain Magneto declares his plan to \"make \"Homo sapiens\" bow to \"Homo superior\"!\", implying that mutants will be an evolutionary step up from current humanity. Later, the books speak of an X-gene that confers powers from puberty onwards. X-men powers include telepathy, telekinesis, healing, strength, flight, time travel, and the ability to emit blasts of energy. Marvel's god-like Celestials are later (1999) said to have visited Earth long ago and to have modified human DNA to enable mutant powers.\n\nJames Blish's 1952 novel \"Titan's Daughter\" (in Kendell Foster Crossen's \"Future Tense\" collection) featured stimulated polyploidy (giving organisms multiple sets of genetic material, something that can create new species in a single step), based on spontaneous polyploidy in flowering plants, to create humans with more than normal height, strength, and lifespans.\n\nCloning, too, is a familiar plot device. In his 1990 novel \"Jurassic Park\", Michael Crichton imagined the recovery of the complete genome of a dinosaur from fossil remains, followed by its use to recreate living animals of an extinct species. Aldous Huxley's 1931 dystopian novel \"Brave New World\" imagines the \"in vitro\" cloning of fertilised human eggs. Huxley was influenced by J. B. S. Haldane's 1924 non-fiction book \"Daedalus; or, Science and the Future\", which used the Greek myth of Daedalus to symbolise the coming revolution in genetics; Haldane predicted that humans would control their own evolution through directed mutation and in vitro fertilisation. Cloning was explored further in stories such as Poul Anderson's 1953 \"UN-Man\".\n\nCloning is a recurring theme in science fiction films like \"Jurassic Park\" (1993), \"Alien Resurrection\" (1997), \"The 6th Day\" (2000), \"Resident Evil\" (2002), \"\" (2002) and \"The Island\" (2005). The process of cloning is represented variously in fiction. Many works depict the artificial creation of humans by a method of growing cells from a tissue or DNA sample; the replication may be instantaneous, or take place through slow growth of human embryos in artificial wombs. In the long-running British television series \"Doctor Who\", the Fourth Doctor and his companion Leela were cloned in a matter of seconds from DNA samples (\"The Invisible Enemy\", 1977) and then—in an apparent homage to the 1966 film \"Fantastic Voyage\"—shrunk to microscopic size in order to enter the Doctor's body to combat an alien virus. The clones in this story are short-lived, and can only survive a matter of minutes before they expire. Films such as \"The Matrix\" and \"Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones\" have featured human foetuses being cultured on an industrial scale in enormous tanks. \n\nCloning humans from body parts is a common science fiction trope, one of several genetics themes parodied in Woody Allen's 1973 comedy \"Sleeper\", where an attempt is made to clone an assassinated dictator from his disembodied nose.\n\nGenetic engineering features in many science fiction stories. Films such as \"The Island\" and \"Blade Runner\" (1982) bring the engineered creature to confront the person who created it or the being it was cloned from, a theme seen in some film versions of \"Frankenstein\". Few films have informed audiences about genetic engineering as such, with the exception of the 1978 \"The Boys from Brazil\" and the 1993 \"Jurassic Park\", both of which made use of a lesson, a demonstration, and a clip of scientific film. In 1982, Frank Herbert's novel \"The White Plague\" described the deliberate use of genetic engineering to create a pathogen which specifically killed women. Another of Herbert's creations, the \"Dune\" series of novels, starting with \"Dune\" in 1965, emphasises genetics. It combines selective breeding by a powerful sisterhood, the Bene Gesserit, to produce a supernormal male being, the Kwisatz Haderach, with the genetic engineering of the powerful but despised Tleilaxu.\n\nGenetic engineering methods are weakly represented in film; Michael Clark, writing for The Wellcome Trust, calls the portrayal of genetic engineering and biotechnology \"seriously distorted\" in films such as Roger Spottiswoode's 2000 \"The 6th Day\", which makes use of the trope of a \"vast clandestine laboratory ... filled with row upon row of 'blank' human bodies kept floating in tanks of nutrient liquid or in suspended animation\". In Clark's view, the biotechnology is typically \"given fantastic but visually arresting forms\" while the science is either relegated to the background or fictionalised to suit a young audience.\n\nEugenics plays a central role in films such as Andrew Niccol's 1997 \"Gattaca\", the title alluding to the letters G, A, T, C for guanine, adenine, thymine, and cytosine, the four nucleobases of DNA. Genetic engineering of humans is unrestricted, resulting in genetic discrimination, loss of diversity, and adverse effects on society. The film explores the ethical implications; the production company, Sony Pictures, consulted with a gene therapy researcher, French Anderson, to ensure that the portrayal of science was realistic, and test-screened the film with the Society of Mammalian Cell Biologists and the American National Human Genome Research Institute before its release. This care did not prevent researchers from attacking the film after its release. Philim Yam of \"Scientific American\" called it \"science bashing\"; in \"Nature\" Kevin Davies called it a \"\"surprisingly pedestrian affair\"; and the molecular biologist Lee Silver described the film's extreme genetic determinism as \"a straw man\".\n\nThe geneticist Dan Koboldt observes that while science and technology play major roles in fiction, from fantasy and science fiction to thrillers, the representation of science in both literature and film is often unrealistic. In Koboldt's view, genetics in fiction is frequently oversimplified, and some myths are common and need to be debunked. For example, the Human Genome Project has not (he states) immediately led to a \"Gattaca\" world, as the relationship between genotype and phenotype is not straightforward. People do differ genetically, but only very rarely because they are missing a gene that other people have: people have different alleles of the same genes. Eye and hair colour are controlled not by one gene each, but by multiple genes. Mutations do occur, but they are rare: people are 99.99% identical genetically, the 3 million differences between any two people being dwarfed by the hundreds of millions of DNA bases which are identical; nearly all DNA variants are inherited, not acquired afresh by mutation. And, Koboldt writes, believable scientists in fiction should know their knowledge is limited.\n\n"}
{"id": "40189480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40189480", "title": "Gilbertese dancing", "text": "Gilbertese dancing\n\nThe Gilbertese dancing, which is accompanied by singing, is a characteristic dance style of the Melanesians and the Polynesians. It is a fusion of folk and ballad dance forms. Rhythm in the music is accentuated by beating with hand the upturned wooden boxes.\n"}
{"id": "31943415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31943415", "title": "James B. Palais Book Prize", "text": "James B. Palais Book Prize\n\nThe James B. Palais Book Prize has been awarded annually since 2010 by the Association for Asian Studies (AAS). Pioneer Korean studies scholar James Palais is commemorated in the name of this prize.\n\nThe Palais Prize acknowledges an outstanding English language book published on Korea; and the prize honors the author of the book.\n\nAAS is a scholarly, non-political, non-profit professional association which includes all persons interested in Asia. The association was founded in 1941 as publisher of the \"Far Eastern Quarterly\" (now the \"Journal of Asian Studies\"). The organization has gone through a series of reorganizations since those early days; but its continuing mission is to foster the exchange of information among scholars and to increase understanding about East Asia, South Asia, and Southeast Asia. \n\nThe Northeast Asia Council (NEAC) of the AAS oversees the James Palais Book Prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981728", "title": "James Burnett, Lord Monboddo", "text": "James Burnett, Lord Monboddo\n\nJames Burnett, Lord Monboddo (baptised 25 October 1714; died 26 May 1799), was a Scottish judge, scholar of linguistic evolution, philosopher and deist. He is most famous today as a founder of modern comparative historical linguistics. In 1767 he became a judge in the Court of Session.\n\nAs such, Burnett adopted an honorary title based on the name of his father's estate and family seat, Monboddo House. Monboddo was one of a number of scholars involved at the time in development of early concepts of evolution. Some credit him with anticipating in principle the idea of natural selection that was read by (and acknowledged in the writings of) Erasmus Darwin. Charles Darwin read the works of his grandfather Erasmus and later developed the ideas into a scientific theory.\n\nJames Burnett was born in 1714 at Monboddo House in Kincardineshire, Scotland. After his primary education at the parish school of Laurencekirk, he studied at Marischal College, Aberdeen, from where he was graduated in 1729. He also studied at University of Edinburgh and the University of Groningen. At Edinburgh University he graduated in law and was admitted to the Faculty of Advocates in 1737.\n\nBurnett married Elizabethe Farquharson and they had two daughters and a son. Burnett's younger daughter Elizabeth Burnett was an Edinburgh celebrity, known for her beauty and amiability. Tragically, she died from consumption (tuberculosis) at the age of 24. Burnett's friend the Scottish poet Robert Burns had a romantic interest in Elizabeth and wrote a poem, \"Elegy on The Late Miss Burnet of Monboddo\", praising her beauty, which became her elegy.\n\nMonboddo's early work in practising law found him in a landmark piece of litigation of his time, known as the Douglas \"cause\", or case. The matter involved the inheritance standing of a young heir, Archibald James Edward Douglas, 1st Baron Douglas, and took on the form of a mystery novel of the era, with a complex web of events spanning Scotland, France and England. Burnett, as the solicitor for the young Douglas heir, was victorious after years of legal battle and appeals.\n\nFrom 1754 until 1767 Monboddo was one of a number of distinguished proprietors of the Canongate Theatre. He clearly enjoyed this endeavour even when some of his fellow judges pointed out that the activity might cast a shadow over his sombre image as jurist. Here he had occasion to further associate with David Hume who was a principal actor in one of the plays. He had actually met Hume earlier when Monboddo was a curator of the Advocates Library and David Hume served as keeper of that library for several years while he wrote his history.\n\nFrom 1769 until 1775 John Hunter acted as his personal secretary.\n\nIn the era after Monboddo was appointed to Justice of the high court, he organised \"learned suppers\" at his house on 13 St John Street, where he discussed and lectured about his theories. Local intellectuals were invited to attend attic repasts. Henry Home, Lord Kames was conspicuously absent from such socialising; while Kames and Monboddo served on the high court at the same time and had numerous interactions, they were staunch intellectual rivals. Monboddo rode to London on horseback each year and visited Hampton Court as well as other intellectuals of the era; the King himself was fond of Monboddo's colourful discussions. Monboddo is buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard in Edinburgh along with his daughter Elizabeth where they have unmarked graves in the burial enclosure of Patrick Grant, Lord Elchies (within the non-public section known as the Covenanters Prison).\n\nIn \"The Origin and Progress of Language\" Burnett analysed the structure of languages, and argued that humans had evolved language skills in response to changing environment and social structures. Burnett was the first to note that some languages create lengthy words for rather simple concepts. He reasoned that in early languages there was an imperative for clarity, so that redundancy was built in and seemingly unnecessary syllables added. He concluded that this form of language evolved when clear communication might be the determinant of avoiding danger.\n\nMonboddo studied languages of peoples colonised by Europeans, including those of the Carib, Eskimo, Huron, Algonquian, Peruvian (Quechua?) and Tahitian peoples. He saw the preponderance of polysyllabic words, where some of his predecessors had dismissed these languages as a series of monosyllabic grunts. He also observed that in Huron (or Wyandot) the words for very similar objects are astoundingly different. This fact led Monboddo to perceive that these peoples needed to communicate reliably regarding a more limited number of subjects than in modern civilisations, which led to the polysyllabic and redundant nature of many words. He also came up with the idea that these languages are generally vowel-rich and that correspondingly, languages such as German and English are vowel-starved. According to Burnett, this disparity partially arises from the greater vocabulary of Northern European languages and the decreased need for the polysyllabic content.\n\nMonboddo also traced the evolution of modern European languages and gave particularly great effort to understanding the ancient Greek language, in which he was proficient. He argued that Greek is the most perfect language ever established because of its complex structure and tonality, rendering it capable of expressing a wide gamut of nuances. Monboddo was the first to formulate what is now known as the single-origin hypothesis, the theory that all human origin was from a single region of the earth; he reached this conclusion by reasoning from linguistic evolution (Jones, 1789). This theory is evidence of his thinking on the topic of the evolution of Man.\n\nJoshua Steele's disagreement, and subsequent correspondence, with Monboddo over details of the \"melody and measure of speech\" resulted in Steele's \"Prosodia Rationalis\", a foundational work both in phonetics and in the analysis of verse rhythm.\n\nMonboddo is considered by some scholars as a precursive thinker in the theory of evolution. However, some modern evolutionary historians do not give Monboddo an equally high standing in the influence of history of evolutionary thought.\n\nCharles Neaves, one of Monboddo's successors on the high court of Scotland, believed that proper credit was not given to Monboddo in evolutionary theory development. Neaves wrote in verse:\n<poem>Though Darwin now proclaims the law\nAnd spreads it far abroad, O!\nThe man that first the secret saw\nWas honest old Monboddo.\nThe architect precedence takes\nOf him that bears the hod, O!\nSo up and at them, Land of Cakes,\nWe'll vindicate Monboddo.</poem>\n\nErasmus Darwin notes Monboddo's work in his publications (Darwin 1803). Later writers consider Monboddo's analysis as precursive to the theory of Evolution. Whether Charles Darwin read Monboddo is not certain. Monboddo debated with Buffon regarding man's relationship to other primates. Charles Darwin did not mention Monboddo, but commented on Buffon: \"the first author who in modern times has treated [evolution] in a scientific spirit was Buffon\". Buffon thought that man was a species unrelated to lower primates, but Monboddo rejected Buffon's analysis and argued that the anthropoidal ape must be related to the species of man: he sometimes referred to the anthropoidal ape as the \"brother of man\". Monboddo suffered a setback, in his standing on evolutionary thought, because he stated at one time that men had caudal appendages (tails); some historians failed to take him very seriously after that remark, even though Monboddo was known to bait his critics with preposterous sayings.\n\nBailey's \"The Holly and the Horn\" states that \"Charles Darwin was to some degree influenced by the theories of Monboddo, who deserves the title of Evolutionist more than that of Eccentric.\" Henderson says:\n\nMonboddo may be the first person to associate language skills evolving from primates and continuing to evolve in early humans (Monboddo, 1773). He wrote about how the language capability has altered over time in the form not only of skills but physical form of the sound producing organs (mouth, vocal cords, tongue, throat), suggesting he had formed the concept of evolutionary adaptive change.\n\nHe also elaborates on the advantages created by the adaptive change of primates to their environment and even to the evolving complexity of primate social structures. In 1772 in a letter to James Harris, Monboddo articulated that his theory of language evolution (Harris 1772) was simply a part of the manner that man had advanced from the lower animals, a clear precedent of evolutionary thought. Furthermore, he established a detailed theory of how man adaptively acquired language to cope better with his environment and social needs. He argued that the development of language was linked to a procession of events: first developing use of tools, then social structures and finally language. This concept was quite striking for his era, because it departed from the classical religious thinking that man was created instantaneously and language revealed by God. In fact, Monboddo was deeply religious and pointed out that the creation events were probably simply allegories and did not dispute that the universe was created by God. Monboddo was a vigorous opponent of other scientific thinking that philosophically questioned the role of God (see Monboddo's prolific diatribes on Newton's theories).\n\nAs an agriculturist and horse-breeder, Monboddo was quite aware of the significance of selective breeding and even transferred this breeding theory to communications he had with James Boswell in Boswell's selection of a mate. Monboddo has stated in his own works that degenerative qualities can be inherited by successive generations and that by selective choice of mates, creatures can improve the next generation in a biological sense. This suggests that Monboddo understood the role of natural processes in evolution; artificial selection was the starting-point for many of the proto-evolutionary thinkers, and for Darwin himself.\n\nMonboddo struggled with how to \"get man from an animal\" without divine intervention. This is typical of the kind of thinking which is called \"deist\". He developed an entire theory of language evolution around the Egyptian civilisation to assist in his understanding of how man descended from animals, since he explained the flowering of language upon the spinoff of the Egyptians imparting language skills to other cultures. Monboddo cast early humans as wild, solitary, herbivorous quadrupeds. He believed that contemporary people suffered many diseases because they were removed from the environmental state of being unclothed and exposed to extreme swings in climate.\n\nBurnett wrote of numerous cultures (mostly based upon accounts of explorers); for example, he described \"insensibles\" and \"wood eaters\" in \"Of the Origin and Progress of Language\". He was fascinated by the nature of these peoples' language development and also how they fit into the evolutionary scheme.\n\nAgainst all this, Monboddo's contribution to evolution is today regarded by historians of evolution as being notable.\n\nBowler acknowledges his argument that apes might represent the earliest form of humanity (Monboddo 1774), but continues:\n\nCharles Dickens knew of Monboddo and wrote in his novel, Life and Adventures of Martin Chuzzlewit about \"(...) the Manboddo doctrine touching the probability of the human race having once been monkeys\". This is significant because \"Martin Chuzzlewit\" was published decades before Darwin wrote his theory of evolution.\n\nThe history of the theory of evolution is a relatively modern field of scholarship.\n\nIn \"Antient Metaphysics\", Burnett claimed that man is gradually elevating himself from the animal condition to a state in which mind acts independently of the body. He was a strong supporter of Aristotle in his concepts of Prime Mover. Much effort was devoted to crediting Isaac Newton with brilliant discoveries in the Laws of Motion, while defending the power of the mind as outlined by Aristotle. His analysis was further complicated by his recurring need to assure that Newton did not obviate the presence of God.\n\nMonboddo was a pioneer in regard to many modern ideas and had already in the eighteenth century realized the value of \"air-baths\"(the familiar term which he invented) to mental and physical health. In his writings Monboddo argued against clothes as unnatural and undesirable from every point of view for both mind and body. Monboddo \"awaked every morning at four, and then for his health got up and walked in his room naked, with the window open, which he called taking an air bath.\" When nudism was first brought into fashion with much enthusiasm in Germany as Freikörperkultur early in the twentieth century Monboddo was regarded as a pioneer, and in 1913 a \"Monboddo Bund\" was established in Berlin, for the harmonious culture of body and mind.\n\nBurnett was widely known to be an eccentric. Habitually he rode on horseback between Edinburgh and London instead of journeying by carriage. Another time after a decision went against him regarding the value of a horse, he refused to sit with the other judges and assumed a seat below the bench with the court clerks. When Burnett was visiting the Court of King's Bench in London in 1787, part of the floor of the courtroom started to collapse. People rushed out of the building but Burnett who, at the age of 71, was partially deaf and shortsighted, was the only one not to move. When he was later asked for a reason, he stated that he thought it was \"an annual ceremony, with which, as an alien, he had nothing to do\".\n\nBurnett in his earlier years suggested that the orangutan was a form of man, although some analysts think that some of his presentation was designed to entice his critics into debate.\nThe orangutan was at this time a generic term for all types of apes. The Swedish explorer whose evidence Burnett accepted was a naval officer who had viewed a group of monkeys and thought they were human. Burnett may simply have taken the view that it was reasonable for people to assume the things they do and the word of a naval officer trained to give accurate reports was a credible source. Burnett was indeed responsible for changing the classical definition of man as a creature of reason to a creature capable of achieving reason although he viewed this process as one slow and difficult to achieve.\n\nAt one time he said that humans must have all been born with tails, which were removed by midwives at birth. His contemporaries ridiculed his views, and by 1773 he had retracted this opinion (Pringle 1773). Some later commentators have seen him as anticipating evolutionary theory. He appeared to argue that animal species adapted and changed to survive, and his observations on the progression of primates to man amounted to some kind of concept of evolution. Burnett also examined feral children and was the only thinker of his day to accept them as human rather than monsters. He viewed in these children the ability to achieve reason. He identified the orangutan as human as his sources indicated it was capable of experiencing shame.\n\nIn 2015 the orangutan Sandra was the first to legally be recognised as a \"non-human person\", paving the way for apes and other animals to be recognised as having rights equal to humans.\n\nIn Thomas Love Peacock's 1817 novel \"Melincourt\", an orangutan punningly named \"Sir Oran Haut-Ton\" becomes a candidate for British Parliament based on Monboddo's theories.\n\nCharles Dickens, in his novel \"Martin Chuzzlewit\", refers to \"the Manboddo doctrine touching the probability of the human race having once been monkeys\".\n\nIn his 1981 dystopian novel \"Lanark\", Alasdair Gray names the head of the mysterious Institute Lord Monboddo. He makes the connection explicit in a marginal note, adding that it is not a literal depiction.\n\nLord Monboddo's descendant, Jamie Burnett of Leys, has sponsored a stage work \"Monboddo – The Musical\" which is a biographical re-enactment of the life of his ancestor. It received a first run at Aberdeen Arts Centre in September 2010.\n\nIn her short story \"The Monboddo Ape Boy\", Lillian de la Torre depicted a slightly fictionalised Monboddo meeting Samuel Johnson, and being presented with a supposed \"wild boy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1258478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1258478", "title": "Karaoke box", "text": "Karaoke box\n\nA is a common type of karaoke establishment commonly found in East Asia, Southeast Asia, South Asia and the United States. Karaoke boxes consist of multiple rooms containing karaoke equipment, usually rented out for time periods. A typical karaoke box establishment contains 10–20 (or more) such rooms as well as a main karaoke bar area in the front. Karaoke box establishments often sell refreshments.\n\nThe term karaoke box is primarily used in Japan and Hong Kong. Karaoke box establishments are commonly known as KTV (an abbreviation of karaoke television) in Taiwan, China, Cambodia, Singapore, and the United States, \"videoke\" in the Philippines, \"noraebang\" (노래방) in South Korea (literally meaning singing room), \"karaoke room\" in Vietnam, and \"karaoke club\" in Sri Lanka. It is also common to simply abbreviate it as K in Hong Kong Cantonese, often when used as a verb, for example 去K歌 (to go K songs) or 去唱K (to go sing K).\n\nKTV can also refer to a karaoke music video, a music video with karaoke lyrics and MMO audio track. Some karaoke music videos were sold to KTV establishments under exclusivity contracts, making some people use them to copy karaoke music videos illegally and share them on the Internet. These are often found on the Internet in MPEG (VCD) or VOB (DVD) format with (KTV) appended to the filename.\n\n"}
{"id": "11949895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11949895", "title": "La Jeune Belgique", "text": "La Jeune Belgique\n\nLa Jeune Belgique (meaning \"The Young Belgium\" in English) was a Belgian literary society and movement that published a French-language literary review \"La Jeune Belgique\" between 1880 and 1897. Both the society and magazine were founded by the Belgian poet Max Waller. Contributors to the review included Georges Rodenbach, Eugene Demolder, Émile Verhaeren, Maurice Maeterlinck, Albert Giraud, Georges Eekhoud, Camille Lemonnier and Auguste Jennart.\n\nThe magazine was started in 1880 under the name \"La Jeune revue littéraire\" which was changed to \"La Jeune Belgique\" in 1881. The headquarters of the magazine, which was published biweekly, was in Brussels. In its later year the frequency of the magazine became published monthly and then, bimonthly. In addition, the magazine was published both in Brussels and in Paris during this period.\n\n"}
{"id": "10471942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10471942", "title": "Laramie (cigarette)", "text": "Laramie (cigarette)\n\nLaramie was a brand of cigarettes extant in the United States from the 1930s into the 1950s. Later, the name was used for a cigarette rolling kit. Laramie is currently a brand name for cigarette papers and cigarette tubes (rolling papers pre-formed into a tube, for use in home tobacco injector systems) marketed by HBI International.\n\nLaramie cigarettes are a popular fictional brand on \"The Simpsons\", in reality they have been out of production since the 1950s. The red and white triangular packaging is meant to be a parody of the real-life Marlboro cigarettes. In the show they sponsor a child beauty pageant and have a corporate mascot named Menthol Moose (a parody of Joe Camel) who can be seen at parades in Springfield.\n\nAdvertisements for Laramie cigarettes are shown as part of a tobacco lawsuit in \"The Practice\" (season one, episode four).\n\nLaramie cigarettes also make an appearance in the computer game \"System Shock 2\".\n\nIn the 23rd episode of the 2nd season of \"The X-Files\", Laramie Tobacco is mentioned as a missing person's former workplace.\n\n"}
{"id": "46882531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46882531", "title": "List of artworks in the collection of the Royal Society of Chemistry", "text": "List of artworks in the collection of the Royal Society of Chemistry\n\nThe Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) owns a number of significant artworks in its venue at Burlington House in London. The collection is composed of busts, paintings and other artefacts that were mainly acquired between the mid-19th and early 21st Centuries (the Chemical Society was founded in 1841 and merged with others to become the RSC in 1980). Most of the acquisitions were donations from past members and staff, although a few were purchased directly by the Society.\n\nLocated along the corridor on the first floor of Burlington House, the bronze bust of Sir Humphry Davy was created by Ruby Levick and is a reproduction of an earlier sculpture by Miss Moore, donated to the Chemical Society by Rudolph Messell in 1900. At the Annual General Meeting of the Chemical Society of 29 March, Sir Thomas Edward Thorpe (President of the Society), reported on the gift of this work:\n\nSir Humphry Davy is best remembered today for his discoveries of several alkali and alkaline earth metals, as well as contributions to the discoveries of the elemental nature of chlorine and iodine.\n\nRuby Levick was a Welsh sculptor and medallist who had many of her works exhibited at the Royal Academy.\n\nThe bronze bust of John Dalton, located along the corridor on the first floor, was also created by Ruby Levick and was donated to the Chemical Society in 1903 by its former President Sir Thomas Edward Thorpe, as also attested by the inscription engraved on the bust's base: \"John Dalton presented by T.E. Thorpe CB. L.L.D. F.R.S. past President in commemoration of the centenary of the enunciation of the atomic theory\".\n\nA copy of his accompanying letter was printed in the \"Proceedings of the Chemical Society\" in 1903 and read out by President William A. Tilden:\n\nJohn Dalton was an English chemist best known for his development of atomic theory.\n\nOn the same first floor corridor, is the bronze bust representing Michael Faraday, English scientist whose studies greatly contributed to the fields of electromagnetism and electrochemistry. The bust was presented to the Chemical Society by James Emerson Reynolds (1844–1920), President of the Chemical Society from 1901 to 1903:\n\nThe marble bust on the first floor of Burlington House representing Sir William Henry Perkin was presented to the Chemical Society in 1907 by the committee administering the fund subscribed in support of the international celebration for the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of the Coal Tar Colour Industry. At the Annual General Meeting of the Society, President Raphael Meldola reported on this gift:\n\nPerkin's fame is mainly related to his discovery of mauveine.\n\nThe artist, Frederick William Pomeroy, was a British sculptor mainly prolific in ideal work and portrait busts, but also creator of public monuments.\n\nNext to Perkin bust stands the marble bust representing Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe by Alfred Drury, donated to the Chemical Society Library on 20 November 1913, on the occasion of Roscoe's eightieth birthday by his friends and pupils, as also attested by the inscription on its base: .\n\nIn 1914 Professor William Perkin Jr., President of the Society, reported on the gift of this artefact: \n\nPresident of the Chemical Society between 1880–1882, Roscoe was student as well as friend of the German chemist Robert Bunsen: in their researches laid the foundation of comparative photochemistry.\n\nEnglish architectural sculptor, Drury was elected Academician of the Royal Academy of Arts in 1913. He studied at the Oxford National Art Training School and in Paris.\n\nOn the ground floor of Burlington House, on the left hand side of the entrance hall, is the bronze bust representing Baron Justus von Liebig, presented to the Chemical Society by Rudolph Messel in 1903:\nas also confirmed by the inscription on the column supporting the bust: \n\nAnother inscription, placed between the back and the right side of the bust itself, provides information about its origin: The artefact was created in Munich in 1873 by Michael Wagmüller, a German sculptor who completed a number of commissions in London and exhibited at the Royal Academy.\n\nVon Liebig is considered to have greatly contributed to the fields of agricultural and biological chemistry. He developed a manufacturing process for beef extracts and founded a company which later became Oxo. He is also credited as the inventor of Marmite.\n\nThe marble bust representing the German chemist August Wilhelm von Hofmann is located on the ground floor. It was introduced to the Chemical Society in 1876 by Mr James Duncan:\n\nThe inscription at the back certifies that this artwork was created by the German sculptor Johannes Pfuhl in Berlin in 1875.\n\nJustus von Liebig's pupil and William Perkin's mentor, von Hofmann widely contributed to the development of the organic chemistry. He was a cofounder of the German Chemical Society and President of the Chemical Society between 1861 and 1863.\n\nIn the waiting room, on the ground floor, is a bronze bust of Jean Baptiste André Dumas, the French chemist best known for his works on organic analysis and synthesis, as well as the determination of atomic weights and molecular weights by measuring vapour densities.\n\nThe sculpture was presented to the Chemical Society in 1885 by Warren De la Rue:\n\nAn inscription on the right side of the bust provides us further information: The work was created in 1883 by Jean-Baptiste Claude Eugène Guillaume, a French sculptor elected honorary member of the Royal Academy in 1869.\n\nOn the ground floor reception of Burlington House, on the left-hand side, can be found a bust of Robert Boyle, who is often regarded today as the first modern chemist.\nAcquired by the Royal Society of Chemistry in 2003 from the Chelminski Gallery, this veined white marble bust was originally commissioned in 1731 from the Italian sculptor Giovanni Battista Guelfi (1690–1736) by Lord Burlington, a relative of Boyle's, for Burlington House, which was then the earl's residence in London.\nThis work, originally displayed at Lord Burlington's Palladian villa, Chiswick House, is virtually identical to that commissioned by Queen Caroline for her grotto at Richmond in 1732–3. The latter survives in the Royal Collection at Kensington Palace and has long been well-known. However, this other version of Guelfi's bust had hitherto been entirely unknown to Boyle scholars.\n\nGuelfi was an Italian sculptor who trained with Camillo Rusconi in Rome and was invited by Lord Burlington, in 1714, to move to England, where he restored the Arundel marbles and executed several portrait busts and monuments.\n\nLocated in the main hall, this artefact was created in the 18th Century. Made of gunmetal raised on a cross-banded walnut and oak base (32 cm × 44 cm. × 25.5 cm), it bears a presentation plaque with the following inscription:\n\nSamuel Harrison (1759–1833) was a split ring maker with a workshop in Lancaster Street, Birmingham. He was a member of Priestley's congregation at the New Meeting and is known to have assisted Priestley with his experiments.\n\nRight next to the airpump stands, raised on an oak plinth, a plaster, full-length figure of Joseph Priestley holding in his hands mortar and pestle, signed and inscribed \"Esher\" and dated 1874. Another inscription confirms that the statue was presented in 1920 by Mrs Bedford McNeill, as stated in the \"Journal and Proceedings of the Institute of Chemists of Great Britain and Ireland\" of that year:\nThe full size version of this sculpture by Francis John Williamson is located in Birmingham. It was originally made in marble, then re-cast in bronze and it portrays Dr Priestley absorbed in an experiment which led to his discovery of oxygen.\n\nThis painting (oil on canvas, 127 cm × 158 cm), located in the waiting room of Burlington House, was bought from the Albemarle Gallery by the Royal Society of Chemistry in 2008. It is part of Stuart Luke Gatherer's \"Sins and Virtues\" collection, which illustrates the seven sins and seven virtues using modern-day professions.\nIt is based on an earlier classic, \"An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump\" (1768) by Joseph Wright, which was in turn inspired by Robert Boyle's experiment on the properties of air in the mid-17th Century: a bird is deprived of air before a diversified audience and the different reactions of the spectators prove that scientific curiosity overcomes the concern for the living creature.\n\nStuart Luke Gatherer was brought up in the Eastern Highlands of Scotland, he graduated from Edinburgh College of Art in 1995 and exhibited across Scotland, in New York and in London.\n\nOn the first floor, in the Hinshelwood Room, is a painting (oil on canvas, 20 cm × 24 cm) by Christine Payne representing the well-known thought experiment Schrödinger's cat. An introductory note provides further information:\n\nThe original series consisted of nine paintings and two of them were shown in the exhibition 'Seeing Red' at the Science Museum from November 2001 to October 2002. The venue also purchased one of the paintings for their collection.\n\nHanging on one of the walls of the Council Room is a large (21.5 cm × 18.5 cm) Wedgwood Jasperware oval portrait plaque of Dr Joseph Priestley, attributed to William Hackwood (circa 1779).\n\nThe ebonized frame is inscribed \n\nEnglish theologian, philosopher and chemist, Joseph Priestley is credited with the discovery of oxygen.\n\nWilliam Hackwood worked as prolific modeller for Josiah Wedgwood's factory between 1769 and 1832.\n\nAnother Wedgwood Jasperware oval portrait plaque (23 cm × 19 cm) is on display in the Council Room. Representing Robert Boyle, the artefacts bears, on its gilt-beaded ebonised frame, the following inscription:\n\nRobert Boyle's \"The Sceptical Chymist\" is considered a foundation in the chemistry field. He is best known for the Boyle's law, which describes the inversely proportional relationship between the absolute pressure and volume of a gas, if the temperature is kept constant within a closed system.\n\nWedgwood is a fine china, porcelain and luxury accessories company founded in 1759 by Josiah Wedgwood.\n\nIn the Council Room is also this head and shoulder portrait (oil on canvas, 61 cm × 49 cm) of Benjamin Collins Brodie, President of the Chemical Society between 1859 and 1861, chiefly known for his investigations on the allotropic states of carbon and for his discovery of graphitic acid.\n\nThe plate on the frame is so inscribed:\n\nThe painting is initialled and dated: .\n\nThe Council Room hosts a three-quarter length portrait (oil on canvas, 108 cm × 85 cm) of Baron Justus Von Liebig seated, which is signed and dated 1860.\n\nCreated by the German artist Wilhelm Trautschold, this artefact was, as its plate reads:\n\nMargaret Trautschold Hayford says Trautschold painted four portraits of Liebig, who was a close friend and a colleague of his father in law: this one is listed in the checklist of Trautschold's work as no. 34, oil 40\" x 30\", signed and dated 1860 (and as being in the Chemical Society of London). He was mainly active between 1849 and 1873 in Edinburgh, Liverpool and London.\n\nThe portrait of Thomas Graham, hanging from the Council Room's wall, was specially commissioned by the Chemical Society in 1931.\nIncoming President Professor George Henderson acknowledged this at the Annual General Meeting that year:\n\nThe artist, Herbert Ashwin Budd, was born in 1881 in Staffordshire and died in 1950. He designed posters for London Transport in 1930s. London based artist and teacher, he painted portraits, landscapes and townscapes in oils. In 1907 he became an associate of the Royal College of Art and began to exhibit widely in the UK, at the New English Art Club and regularly at the Royal Academy. In 1921 he became a member of the Royal Institute of Oil Painters and in 1927 was awarded an Honourable Mention at the Paris Salon. From 1929 to 1949 he taught at St Martin's School of Art.\n\nThomas Graham was the first President of the Chemical Society, in 1841. His main contributions to science were the studies on the diffusion of gases, resulted in \"Graham's Law\" and the discovery of the medical method known as dialysis.\n\nAnother painting in the Council Room is the half-length portrait of Robert Boyle (oil on canvas 92 cm × 78.5 cm). The \"Journal and Proceedings of the Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland\" said about the work:\n\nThe frame bears a plate with the inscription:\n\nand the painting itself is inscribed:\n\nThis three-quarter length portrait of Thomas Thomson seated at his desk (oil on board, 47 cm × 36 cm, carved giltwood frame) is another of the artefacts on display in the Council Room. Attributed to the Scottish artist John Graham Gilbert, it was presented by Dr John Naish Goldsmith, as reported by the inscription on the frame: \n\nPainter and art collector, John Graham-Gilbert exhibited most of his works between the Royal Academy in London and the Royal Scottish Academy in Edinburgh.\n\nThomson was a Scottish chemist and mineralogist who invented a saccharometer for assessing sugar content of the fermenting must. He accorded an effective support to Dalton's atomic theory.\n\nIn the Council Room, together with all the other paintings, is the three-quarter length profile portrait of Sir James Dewar (oil on canvas, 126 cm × 101 cm). The plate on the frame is so inscribed: \nThe painting is signed and dated 1923: the creator was the French artist René le Brun, Comte de L'Hôpital, who studied at the Royal Academy in London.\n\nScottish chemist and physicist, James Dewar is probably best known as the inventor of the Dewar flask.\n\nThis painting (oil on canvas, 133 cm × 103 cm) depicts Sir Cyril Norman Hinshelwood seated at his desk, three-quarter length, dressed in red academic robes. The plate's frame states:\n\nHinshelwood was an English physical chemist who gained many awards and honorary degrees. He was President of several English societies, such as the Chemical Society, the Faraday Society and the Royal Society.\n\nThe portrait is attributed to Gerald Festus Kelly, an artist born in London and educated at Cambridge University. During his life, Kelly visited many countries and exhibited more than 300 of his works at the Royal Academy, of which he was also President between 1949 and 1954.\n\nThe \"Proceedings of the Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland\" said of this painting:\n\nMember of the Royal Academy, Solomon Joseph Solomon was a British artist who produced works of different style and different subjects, being very productive as innovative portraitist.\n\nRaphael Meldola, British chemist and entomologist, was President of the Chemical Society between 1905 and 1907.\n\nLocated in the Council Room, this painting shows Michael Faraday giving one of a course of six Christmas Lectures at the Royal Institution. Focused on the distinctive properties of common metals, these lectures were delivered between 27 December 1855 and 8 January 1856. Prince Albert, the Prince Consort (Queen Victoria's husband), and the Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII) are in the front row.\n\nThe painting was purchased by the Faraday Society from the private museum of the Nowel ffarington family of Worden Hall in 1949. The plate on the frame gives the artist's name, Alexander Blaikley (1816–1903). Born in Glasgow, Blaikley studied at the Trustees' Academy and at the Royal Academy, where he then exhibited most of his works.\n"}
{"id": "55502135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55502135", "title": "List of cooking vessels", "text": "List of cooking vessels\n\nThis is a list of cooking vessels. A cooking vessel is a type of cookware or bakeware designed for cooking, baking, roasting, boiling or steaming. Cooking vessels are manufactured using materials such as steel, cast iron, aluminum, clay and various other ceramics. Some cooking vessels, such as ceramic ones, absorb and retain heat after cooking has finished.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5531650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5531650", "title": "List of helicopter prison escapes", "text": "List of helicopter prison escapes\n\nA helicopter prison escape is made when an inmate escapes from a prison by means of a helicopter. This list includes prisoner escapes where a helicopter was used in an attempt to free prisoners from a place of internment, a prison or correctional facility.\n\nOne of the earliest instances of using a helicopter to escape a prison was the escape of Joel David Kaplan, nicknamed \"Man Fan\", on August 19, 1971 from the Santa Martha Acatitla in Mexico. Kaplan was a New York businessman who not only successfully escaped the prison but eventually escaped Mexico and went on to write a book about his experience, \"The 10-Second Jailbreak\".\n\nFrance has had more recorded helicopter escape attempts than any other country, with at least 11. One of the most notable French jail breaks occurred in 1986, when the wife of bank robber Michel Vaujour studied for months to learn how to fly a helicopter. Using her newly acquired skills, she rented a white helicopter and flew low over Paris to pluck her husband off the roof of his fortress prison. Vaujour was later seriously wounded in a shootout with police, and his pilot wife was arrested.\n\nThe record for most helicopter escapes goes to convicted murderer Pascal Payet, who has used helicopters to escape from prisons in 2001, 2003, and most recently 2007.\n\nAnother multiple helicopter escapee is Vasilis Paleokostas who on February 22, 2009 escaped for the second time from the same prison. Because of this, many prisons have taken applicable precautions, such as nets or cables strung over open prison courtyards.\n\n"}
{"id": "45637644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45637644", "title": "List of years in Polish television", "text": "List of years in Polish television\n\nThis is a list of years in Polish television.\n\n"}
{"id": "24147294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24147294", "title": "Lithuanian phonology", "text": "Lithuanian phonology\n\nThis article is about the phonology of the Lithuanian language. Lithuanian has a phonemic inventory consisting of eleven vowels and 45 consonants, including 22 pairs of consonants distinguished by the presence or absence of palatalization.\n\nAll Lithuanian consonants except have two variants: a non-palatalized one and a palatalized one, represented by the IPA symbols in the chart (i.e.,  – ,  – ,  – , and so on). The consonants , , and their palatalized variants are only found in loanwords. Consonants preceding the front vowels , , , and , as well as any palatalized consonant or are always moderately palatalized (a feature Lithuanian has in common with the Belarusian and Russian languages but which is not present in the more closely related Latvian). Followed by back vowels , , , , , and , consonants can also be palatalized (causing some vowels to shift; see the Vowels section below); in such cases, the standard orthography inserts the letter \"i\" between the vowel and the preceding consonant (which is not pronounced separately), e.g. \"noriu\" , ('I want'). Most of the non-palatalized and palatalized consonants form minimal pairs (like \"šuo\" , 'dog' ~ \"šiuo\" , 'with this one'), so they are independent phonemes, rather than allophones.\n\nLithuanian has six long vowels and five short ones (not including the disputed ). Length has traditionally been considered the distinctive feature, though short vowels are also more centralized and long vowels more peripheral:\n\n\nIn standard Lithuanian vowels and generally are not pronounced after any palatalized consonant (including ). In this position, they systematically shift to or and respectively: \"galia\" ('power') = \"gale\" ('in the end') , \"gilią\" ('profound' singular accusative) = \"gilę\" ('acorn' singular accusative) .\n\nOn the other hand, in everyday language usually shifts to (or sometimes even ) if the vowel precedes a non-palatalized consonant: \"jachtą,\" ('yacht' singular accusative), or \"retas,\" ('rare'), are often realized as and (or sometimes even and ) instead of and as the following consonants and are not palatalized. This phenomenon does not affect short vowels.\n\nLithuanian is traditionally described as having nine diphthongs, \"ai\",\" au\",\" ei\",\" eu\",\" oi\",\" ou\",\" ui\",\" ie\", and\" uo.\" However, some approaches (i.e., Schmalstieg 1982) treat them as vowel sequences rather than diphthongs; indeed, the longer component depends on the type of stress, whereas in diphthongs, the longer segment is fixed.\n\nLithuanian long stressed syllables can have either a rising or a falling tone. In specialized literature, they are marked with a tilde or an acute accent respectively. The tone is especially clearly audible in diphthongs, since in the case of the rising tone, it makes the second element longer (e.g., \"aĩ\" is pronounced ), while the falling tone prolongs the first element (e.g., \"ái\" is pronounced ) (for more detailed information, see Lithuanian accentuation). The full set is as follows:\n\nThe Lithuanian prosodic system is characterized by free accent and distinctive quantity. Its accentuation is sometimes described as a simple tone system, often called pitch accent. In lexical words, one syllable will be tonically prominent. A heavy syllable—that is, a syllable containing a long vowel, diphthong, or a sonorant coda—may have one of two tones, \"falling tone\" (or \"acute tone\") or \"rising tone\" (or \"circumflex tone\"). Light syllables (syllables with short vowels and optionally also obstruent codas) do not have the two-way contrast of heavy syllables.\n\nCommon Lithuanian lexicographical practice uses three diacritic marks to indicate word accent, i.e., the tone and quantity of the accented syllable. They are used in the following way:\n\nAs said, Lithuanian has a \"free\" accent, which means that its position and type is not phonologically predictable and has to be learned by heart. This is the state of affairs inherited from Proto-Balto-Slavic and, to a lesser extent, from Proto-Indo-European; Lithuanian circumflex and acute syllables directly reflect Proto-Balto-Slavic acute and circumflex tone opposition.\n\nIn a word-final position, the tonal distinction in heavy syllables is almost neutralized, with a few minimal pairs remaining such as \"šáuk,\" ('shoot!'), vs. \"šaũk,\" ('shout!)'. In other syllables, the two-way contrast can be illustrated with pairs such as: \"kóšė\" ('porridge') vs. \"kõšė\" ('it soured'); \"áušti\" ('to cool') vs. \"aũšti\" ('to dawn'); \"drímba\" ('lout') vs. \"drim̃ba\" ('it falls'); \"káltas\" ('chisel') vs. \"kal̃tas\" ('guilty'), \"týrė\" ('[he/she] explored') vs. \"tỹrė\" ('mush').\n\n\"Kóšė\" is perceived as having a falling pitch ( or ), and indeed acoustic measurement strongly supports this. However, while \"kõšė\" is perceived as having a rising pitch ( or ), this is not supported acoustically; measurements do not find a consistent tone associated with such syllables that distinguish them from unaccented heavy syllables. The distinguishing feature appears to be a negative one, that they do not have a falling tone.\n\nIf diphthongs (and truly long vowels) are treated as sequences of vowels, then a single stress mark is sufficient for transcription: \"áušta\" > ('it cools') vs. \"aũšta\" > ('it dawns'); \"kóšė\" > ('porridge') vs. \"kõšė\" > ('it soured').\n\nThe Lithuanian accentual system inherited another very important aspect from the Proto-Balto-Slavic period, and that is the accentual mobility. Accents can alternate throughout the inflection of a word by both the syllable position and type. Parallels can be drawn with some modern Slavic languages, namely Russian, Serbo-Croatian and Slovene. Accentual mobility is prominent in nominal stems, while verbal stems mostly demonstrate phonologically predictable patterns.\n\nLithuanian nominal stems are commonly divided into four accentual classes, usually referred to by their numbers:\n\nThe previously described accentual system primarily applies to the Western Aukštaitian dialect on which the standard Lithuanian literary language is based. The speakers of the other group of Lithuanian dialects – Samogitian – have a very different accentual system, and they do not adopt standard accentuation when speaking the standard idiom. Speakers of the major cities, such as Vilnius, Kaunas and Klaipėda, with mixed populations generally do not have intonational oppositions in spoken language, even when they speak the standard idiom.\n\nThe changes and variation in Lithuanian phonetics include diachronic changes of a quality of a phoneme, alternations, dialectal variation, variation between corresponding sounds of individual inflectional morphemes of the same grammatical category, which is at the same time qualitative and quantitative, diachronic and synchronic.\n\n\nVariation in sounds takes place in word formation. Some examples:\nThe examples in the table are given as an overview, the word formation comprises many words not given here, for example, any verb can have an adjective made by the same pattern: sverti – svarus 'valid; ponderous'; svirti – svarùs 'slopable'; vyti – vajùs 'for whom it is characteristic to chase or to be chased'; pilti – pilùs 'poury'; but for example visti – vislùs 'prolific' (not visus, which could conflict with an adjective of a similar form visas 'all, entire'). Many verbs, besides a noun derivative with the ending -ìmas, can have different derivatives of the same meaning: pilti – pylìmas, pylà, pỹlis (they mean the act of the verb: a pouring (of any non solid material)); the first two have meanings that look almost identical but are drawn apart from a direct link with the verb: pylimas 'a bank, an embankment', pylà 'pelting; spanking, whipping'; the word svõris 'a weight', for example, does not have the meaning of an act of weighing. There are also many other derivatives and patterns of derivation.\n\n"}
{"id": "54491695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54491695", "title": "Ludmila Foxlee", "text": "Ludmila Foxlee\n\nLudmila Kuchar Foxlee was a social worker at the Ellis Island immigration station. Employed by the YWCA after World War I, Foxlee spent time in Czechoslovakia to assist in rebuilding efforts before working at Ellis Island from 1920 to 1937. She became one of most well-known immigrant aid workers and her meticulous notes are currently stored at the Ellis Island archives.\n\nFoxlee was born in Bohemia in 1885. She emigrated to the United States with her family in 1890.\n\nFoxlee helped thousands of detained immigrants at Ellis Island. She served as a translator, as she was fluent in several languages in addition to her native Czech. Foxlee was interested in the folk dress and music of newcomers. She also assisted in the immigrants' cultural assimilation to U.S. society, at times giving women a \"makeover\" with Americanized clothing.\n"}
{"id": "27602995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27602995", "title": "Luo language (Cameroon)", "text": "Luo language (Cameroon)\n\nThe Luo language is an unclassified language spoken in a section of the Atta region of Cameroon. It is a critically endangered language, or possibly extinct, with only one speaker remaining in 1995.\n"}
{"id": "3036892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3036892", "title": "Midnight Patrol: Adventures in the Dream Zone", "text": "Midnight Patrol: Adventures in the Dream Zone\n\nMidnight Patrol: Adventures in the Dream Zone is a British American animated series produced by Hanna-Barbera in conjunction with Sleepy Kids PLC and is known outside the US as Potsworth & Co.. In the United Kingdom (which is reflected in the theme song's lyrics in the British broadcast), the BBC felt that the suggestion of children being awake after midnight was inappropriate, thus the name was changed.\n\nThe series revolves around Potsworth, an English Springer Spaniel, based upon a real-life springer spaniel called Potsworth, bought from the Battersea Dogs Home by Martin and Vivien Schrager-Powell. The couple were somewhat disheartened with some of the children's programmes being made at the time, commenting that \"Six-year-olds just aren't content to be fobbed off with 'Mr Wizard go pouf and nasty man go away'. Stories these days have to be believable, contain some logical process\". In 1987, Martin started writing stories about Potsworth who lives in a city in America and four young children: Carter, Keiko, Rosie, and Nick. The couple took the idea to Hanna-Barbera and suggested a 50-50 deal to turn the stories into a television series.\n\nFirst appearing on \"The Funtastic World of Hanna-Barbera\" on the 1st September 1990, \"Midnight Patrol: Adventures in the Dream Zone\" lasted only 13 episodes. It was watched by 8.5 million in the US while 5.1 million watched the series on CBBC in Britain, making it the \"second most popular children's show on British television after \"Neighbours\"\".\n\nThe \"real\" Potsworth became something of a celebrity when he featured extensively in the British media as part of the promotion campaign for the cartoon series when it first aired in the UK in 1990/91 television season. A comic strip based on the show featured in the merged \"Beezer and Topper\" and, when that comic closed, the \"Dandy\".\n\nThe series' setting, \"Dream Zone\", was first used on \"Back to Next Saturday\", the NBC Saturday Morning preview special for the 1985 season.\n\nThe series tells of four children and Potsworth the dog who live in the same neighborhood. When they go to sleep at night they turn up in the Dream Zone where, as the Midnight Patrol, they are appointed by the Grand Dozer to protect it from nightmares and other threats and are given their missions by the Snooze Patrol. Their main enemy is the Nightmare Prince.\n\nWhilst they are in the Dream Zone, the five have special powers. Keiko has a flying skateboard; Carter can draw anything and then have it come to life; Nick is super-strong and is able to fly; his stuffed toy Murphy comes to life; whilst his cynical sister Rosie tags along. Potsworth himself acquires the power of speech which enables him to complain about the way he is treated in the real world, and make wry comments about the kids and their own attitudes and relationships. The cartoon Potsworth had a very \"English\" accent, even in the American version of the programmes, reflecting his real-life counterpart's British origins.\n\nAn officially licensed computer game of the series, using its British title of \"Potsworth and Co\", was released in 1992 by Hi-Tec Software for the ZX Spectrum, Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64 and Atari ST.\n\nIn this scrolling platform game, the player took on the role of one of the characters in each themed level and had to collect various items and then reach the exit.\n\nThe 5 Midnight Patrol members are the main stars of the show. Each one has his/her individual abilities.\n\n\nThe Dream Zone has a number of inhabitants, the principals of which include:\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1991, Hanna-Barbera Home Video released a single VHS cassette of the series in the United States entitled \"Potsworth and the Midnight Patrol\" containing four episodes which are \"Save the Cave\", \"The Wishing Whale\", \"King Potsworth\", and \"The Nightmirror\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39184350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39184350", "title": "Military-entertainment complex", "text": "Military-entertainment complex\n\nThe military-entertainment complex is a concept relating to the cooperation between the military and entertainment industries to their mutual benefit, especially in such fields as cinema, multimedia and virtual reality.\n\nA related concept, the creative-industrial complex, describes the collaborative relationships between creative, industry, and military institutions for political and economic gain. An example of this in practice is Japan's Manga Military, where the Self Defense Force uses affective cultural resources to shape public perceptions of the country's military establishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "51501185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51501185", "title": "Millennial whoop", "text": "Millennial whoop\n\nThe millennial whoop is a melodic pattern alternating between the fifth and third notes in a major scale, typically starting on the fifth, in the rhythm of straight 8th-notes, and often using the \"wa\" and \"oh\" syllables. It has been used extensively in 2010s pop music.\n\nThe term was coined by the musician Patrick Metzger, who described it in a blog entry on \"The Patterning\" in August 2016. He suggested that, while the millennial whoop gained popularity from the late 2000s to 2010s, it has probably always been around. An earlier use can be heard in the 1983 song \"Jungle Love\" by Morris Day and the Time.\n\nThe 2017 song \"Millennial Whoop\" by American rock band the Pilgrims was written as a response to the idea of older generations looking down upon the younger for using such tropes: the song makes use of the interval pattern.\n\nIn 2013 songwriter Ally Burnett tried to sue Carly-Rae Jepsen and Owl City over their 2012 song \"Good Time\", arguing similarities to her 2010 song \"Ah, It's a Love Song\" and its use of the Millennial whoop. Jepsen settled out of court, but Owl City won.\n\nOne notable use of the millennial whoop is in the 1987 theme song by Mark Mueller for the American animated television series \"DuckTales\" which ran for a total of 100 episodes. It does not occur in some other language versions of the 1987 theme nor in the 2017 English version of the theme song.\n\nSongs where the millennial whoop appear include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9434387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9434387", "title": "Odyssey Writing Workshop", "text": "Odyssey Writing Workshop\n\nFounded in 1996 by World Fantasy Award winning editor Jeanne Cavelos, the Odyssey Writing Workshop is held annually on the campus of Saint Anselm College in Goffstown, New Hampshire.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54009595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54009595", "title": "Open educational practices in Australia", "text": "Open educational practices in Australia\n\nOpen Educational Practices in Australia refers to the development, implementation and use of Open educational resources (OER), open access (research and data), open learning design, open policies, and Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) to open up education in Australia.\n\nIn Australia, Open Educational Practices (OEP) started around 1998, when some of the first open access initiatives were introduced and supported by the Australian government. In 2002, the open access movement had a substantial boost due to a programme funded by the Australian government called “Backing Australia’s Ability”. This programme was aimed broadly at promoting excellence in research, science and technology, but several initiatives attached to this programme played important roles in the progress of open access in Australia. They assisted in: raising awareness about open access; building research information infrastructure, including university repositories of open data, thesis and other digital objects; establishing metadata standards to improve access and discoverability of research information; and developing related guidelines.\n\nAlthough the opportunities and benefits of OEP have been realised by the Australian government through investments in open access and by the VET and schools sectors, it was only in 2010 — almost 10 years after the movement emerged in other parts of the world (i.e., the MIT OpenCourseWare Consortium in 2001) — that it started getting more popular in higher education.\n\nIt was during this period that the Office for Learning and Teaching funded a two-year research project, which resulted in the report \"Adoption, Use and Management of Open Educational Resources in Australia Higher Education\".\n\nOne of the main deliverables of this project was the “Feasibility Protocol for OER and OEP” (Bossu, Brown, & Bull, 2014b), which is a set of guiding principles that prompts questions and raises issues to be considered by educational institutions wishing to experiment with OER and OEP. The protocol attempts to assist higher education leaders to make informed decisions about the adoption of OER and OEP at several levels within the institution, from management to individuals, including academics and students. The Feasibility Protocol addresses four topics: the opportunities that OER and OEP could bring to institutions and broader society; the challenges associated with OER and OEP adoption; considerations surrounding the institutions’ strategic directions for an effective adoption of OER and OEP; and policy recommendations for higher education institutions in Australia.\n\nAnother contribution of the two-year research project in helping the sector realise the opportunities of OER for higher education in Australia was the organisation of the first National Symposium on OER, held in August 2012 in Sydney. A range of stakeholders representing 21 national and international institutions (including higher educational institutions, VET and government bodies) attended the symposium. The symposium was a key dissemination strategy for this project, and a chance for the stakeholders to meet and discuss issues related to open education, opportunities for collaboration, and ways to together overcome some of these concerns.\n\nThe scope of the transformation of OEP in Australia is best understood by looking at the main initiatives, programmes and activities categorised into five themes: collaboration; resources and infrastructure; open policies; learning and teaching; and research.\n\nCollaboration amongst institutions and countries is recognised as one of the opportunities of the transformative potential of open education. An example of this collaboration is the OERu, which is a consortium of currently 39 international educational institution partners, spread across five continents. In Australia, six universities are part of this network: University of Canberra, University of Southern Queensland, University of Wollongong, Charles Sturt University, Curtin University and the University of Tasmania. The OERu’s vision is to make education accessible to everyone. Co-ordinated by the OER Foundation, it is an independent, not-for-profit network that offers free online courses for students worldwide. It also provides affordable ways for learners to gain academic credit towards qualifications from recognised institutions.\n\nSeveral Australian universities have invested in resource production and in the development and improvement of technological infrastructure. Examples of resource production are initiatives such as MOOCs. Following the international trend, a number of Australian universities have joined the major MOOC providers, including edX, Coursera and the British FutureLearn, while others have developed their own MOOCs. Currently, more than 100 Australian MOOCs are on offer.\n\nThese are mostly free online courses and are likely to approach learning and teaching more traditionally (xMOOCs) instead of being truly open and adopting open pedagogies and open learning ecosystems (including cMOOCs). In Australia, only a few MOOCs have been developed with some open aspects. For instance, the content might be openly licensed, but the learning management system (LMS) where the courses are hosted is a proprietary system and requires learners to register. Some institutions are still investing in this space, but the initial hype about MOOCs seems to have faded to some extent in Australia.\n\nEncouraged by recent OEP initiatives taking place nationally and internationally, some Australian universities have realised that they need to review and, as needed, further develop their related policies in order to enable innovation and maintain a competitive edge. According to Scott, intellectual property policies are currently under review at several Australian universities. Other universities have encouraged the adoption of OEP through supporting documentation, such as university strategic plans and teaching performance reviews. An example of such a development is the Technology Enhanced Learning and Teaching White Paper 2014–2018, developed by the Tasmanian Institute of Learning and Teaching at the University of Tasmania.\n\nAlthough it could be assumed that the examples above might all impact learning and teaching, there are some programmes specifically targeting learning and teaching for OEP. Most universities experimenting with OEP in Australia have some form of academic development activities to build internal capacity. These activities are in the form of workshops, webinars, one-on-one consultancies and online resources produced by the institutions or adopted/adapted from elsewhere. One example is the “Curriculum Design for Open Education,” which is an open and online professional development micro-course focused on developing the capacity of academics to adopt OEP as the basis for innovative, engaging and agile curricula.\n\nResearch in OEP has been conducted as part of some of the projects and initiatives in Australia. Postgraduate students in several institutions have also undertaken research, and could very well be the Australian OEP advocates and researchers of the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "5645592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5645592", "title": "Piaroa people", "text": "Piaroa people\n\nThe Piaroa are an indigenous people of the middle Orinoco Basin in present-day Venezuela, living in an area equivalent to the size of Belgium, roughly circumscribed by the Parguaza (north), the Ventuari (south-east), the Manapiare (north-east) and the right bank of the Orinoco (west). Their present-day population is of about 14,000 (INE 2002), with some 500 living on the left bank of the Orinoco River, in Colombia, in several reservations between the Vichada (north) and the Guaviare (south).\n\nThe Piaroa, a term of unknown origin, are also known as De'arua (masters of the forest), Wothuha (knowledgeable people), also spelled Huǫttųją (NTM spelling) and Wötʰïhä (IPA spelling), and De'atʰïhä (people of the forest).\n\nSeeing competition as spiritually evil and lauding cooperation, the Piaroa are both strongly egalitarian and supportive of individual autonomy. The Piaroa are also strongly anti-authoritarian and opposed to the hoarding of resources, which they see as giving members the power to constrain their freedom. \n\nDespite sometimes being described as one of the world's most peaceful societies, modern anthropologists report that the relations of Piaroa with neighbouring tribes are actually \"unfriendly, marked by physical or magical warfare\". Violent conflict erupted between the Piaroa and the wæñæpi of the Upper Suapure and Guaviarito regions, with both tribes fighting to control the clay pits of the Guanay valley. Clay from that valley is a valuable commodity, being the best clay for making pottery in the region. Constant warfare also exists between the Piaroa and Caribs, who invaded Piaroa territory from the east in search of captives.\n\nAnthropologist Joanna Overing also notes that social hierarchy is minimal, and that it would be difficult to say any form of male dominance exists, despite leaders being traditionally male. As a result, the Piaroa have been described by some anthropologists as a functioning anarchist society.\n\nThe Piaroa speak Wötʰïhä tivene, or Piaroa language, which belongs to the Salivan language family.\n\n"}
{"id": "59133650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59133650", "title": "Quantum social science", "text": "Quantum social science\n\nQuantum social science is an emerging field of interdisciplinary research which draws parallels between quantum physics and the social sciences. Although there is no settled consensus on a single approach, a unifying theme is that, while the social sciences have long modelled themselves on mechanistic science, they can learn much from quantum ideas such as complementarity and entanglement. Some authors are motivated by quantum mind theories that the brain, and therefore human interactions, are literally based on quantum processes, while others are more interested in taking advantage of the quantum toolkit to simulate social behaviours which elude classical treatment. Quantum ideas have been particularly influential in psychology, but are starting to affect other areas such as international relations and diplomacy in what one 2018 paper called a “quantum turn in the social sciences.”\n\nThe idea that quantum physics might play an important role in living systems has long been considered by physicists. Niels Bohr for example believed that his principle of complementarity extended into both biology and psychology, while Erwin Schrödinger wrote in his 1944 book What is Life? of a “quantum theory of biology” that saw genetic mutations in terms of quantum leaps. In his 1989 book The Emperor's New Mind, Roger Penrose hypothesized that quantum mechanics plays an essential role in human consciousness. His 1994 follow-up book Shadows of the Mind speculated that these quantum processes take place in microtubules inside neurons. \n\nSome physicists have also been willing to consider an even more direct connection between mind and quantum matter, in a quantum version of panpsychism. In his 1975 book Disturbing the Universe, Freeman Dyson wrote that “mind is already inherent in every electron, and the processes of human consciousness differ only in degree but not in kind from the processes of choice between quantum states.” David Bohm’s 1951 book Quantum Theory included a chapter on “Analogies to Quantum Processes” where he considered applications including the understanding of thought processes and in 1990 he published a paper named \"A New theory of the relationship of mind and matter\" which asserts that consciousness permeates all forms of matter. These ideas were popularised and extended by Danah Zohar in books including The Quantum Self and (with Ian Marshall) The Quantum Society. Karen Barad’s 2007 book Meeting the Universe Halfway took “Niels Bohr’s philosophy-physics” as a starting point to develop her theory of agential realism. \n\nBeginning in the 1990s, a separate approach to quantum social science was taken by a number of interdisciplinary researchers, working in what became known as quantum cognition, who argued that quantum probability theory was better than classical probability theory at accounting for a range of cognitive effects of the sort studied in behavioral economics. Others worked on developing “weak” or “generalised” versions of quantum theory which extended concepts such as complementarity and entanglement to the social domain. In their 2013 book Quantum Social Science, Emmanuel Haven and Andrei Khrennikov developed mathematical formalisms for the application of quantum models to topics including psychology, economics, finance, and brain science.\n\nMost researchers in areas such as quantum cognition view the quantum formalism solely as a mathematical toolbox, and do not assume that human cognition is physically based on quantum mechanics. Separately however, researchers in quantum biology have uncovered evidence of quantum effects being exploited in processes such as photosynthesis and avian navigation; and some authors, notably political scientist Alexander Wendt, have argued that human beings are literally what he calls “walking wave functions”.\n\nWhile quantum social scientists are divided on the question of whether social processes are physically quantum in nature, or just happen to be amenable to a quantum approach, there are a number of common ideas, themes, and concerns. The most fundamental is that, since its inception, social science has been based on a classical worldview, which needs to be updated in accordance with the teachings of quantum physics. In particular, quantum theory disputes the key tenets or assumptions of materialism, reductionism, determinism, and mechanism.\n\nAn example is the notion of entanglement. In mechanistic or pre-quantum science, particles are seen as individual entities that interact only in a mechanistic sense. In quantum mechanics, particles such as electrons can become entangled so that a measurement on one instantly affects the state of the other. In quantum social science, people are similarly entangled, whether through shared institutions such as language, or (according to some interpretations) through actual physical processes. An implication is that people are never completely separable, but are entangled elements of society.\n\nAnother example is the idea of wave function collapse. In standard interpretations of quantum physics, a particle is described by a wave function, and attributes such as position or momentum are only discovered through a measurement procedure which collapses the wave function to one of a number of allowed states. In quantum social science, mental states are best described as potentialities that “collapse” only when a judgement or decision is made. One consequence of wave function collapse in physics is that a measurement affects the system being studied, and therefore any future measurement. A corresponding phenomenon in social science is the so-called order effect, where responses to survey questions depends on the order in which they are asked.\n\nIdeas from quantum physics have long inspired thinkers in areas such as politics, diplomacy, and international relations. The journalist Flora Lewis spoke of the “Quantum Mechanics Of Politics” in 1975. In a 1997 lecture on \"Diplomacy in the Information Age\", former US Secretary of State George P. Schultz credits the physicist Sidney Drell for coining the term \"quantum diplomacy\" to describe how diplomats need to account for uncertainty and the fact that “the process of observation itself is a cause of change.” In a 2011 paper, James Der Derian proposed quantum diplomacy as a way to understand the entanglements brought about by a globalized media and a multiplicity of actors operating at different levels. These ideas have been a theme of Der Derian’s annual Q2-Symposium since 2014. In a 2018 address to the Trilateral Commission, Danah Zohar argued that a mechanistic worldview has led to problems from inequality to climate change, and that we need to shift to a quantum perspective which incorporates effects such as uncertainty and entanglement.\n\nWhile Wendt’s 2015 book Quantum Mind and Social Science does not focus on political science, it does discuss the applicability of quantum theory to social systems in general, and its publication led to a great deal of analysis and discussion on this topic. Other related areas where quantum ideas are seeing applications include quantum game theory, quantum finance, and quantum economics.\n\nA topic of controversy is whether quantum science should be applied to social systems only in a metaphorical sense, or whether it should be taken as a physical description of those systems. This relates to a broader debate in the sciences about scientific realism, which applies also to quantum physics.\n"}
{"id": "2569394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2569394", "title": "Quartering (heraldry)", "text": "Quartering (heraldry)\n\nQuartering in is a method of joining several different coats of arms together in one shield by dividing the shield into equal parts and placing different coats of arms in each division.\n\nHowever, in most traditions there is no limit on the number of divisions allowed, and the records of the College of Arms include a shield of 323 quarterings for the family of Lloyd of Stockton. These 323 quarterings include numerous repeated attributed arms assigned to Welsh chieftains from the 9th century or earlier.\n\nAnother example of a shield of many quarterings is the coat of arms of the Powys-Lybbe family, which contains 64 quarterings. Different rules apply in Scottish heraldry, and may well apply in other jurisdictions like Canada and South Africa.\n\nThe arms of the Queen of the United Kingdom are arms of dominion, which join together the arms of the ex-kingdoms now part of her kingdom. However, the vast majority of quarterly coats of arms display arms which are claimed by descent: in other words, they join together coats of arms of the ancestors of the bearer of the arms.\n\nStrict rules apply, both as to what arms may be displayed by way of quarterings, and the order in which they may be displayed. Men and women are always entitled to display the arms of their paternal line but are not usually entitled to display by way of quartering the arms of families from whom there is descent only through a female line (for example, the arms of a mother or grandmother or great-grandmother). An exception is made, however, if the female who breaks the male line of descent is a heraldic heiress—a woman who has no brothers, or whose brothers have died without issue. Such a woman is entitled to transmit her father's arms to her own children, who add them as a quartering. If her father was himself entitled to one or more quarterings, these will pass to his daughters' children as quarterings as well. Quarterings are displayed in the order in which they are acquired by a family by marriage, starting with those acquired by the earliest marriage to bring in quarterings. It is permissible to omit quarterings, but if a quartering was brought in by a later quartering, it is essential to show the whole chain of quarterings leading to the quartering displayed, or else to omit the chain altogether.\n\nThe larger the number of quarterings, the smaller the space available for each coat of arms, so that most families entitled to many quarterings make a selection of those they ordinarily use. The Duke of Norfolk, for example, uses only four quarterings, although he is entitled to many more. In Scotland in some cases the plain unquartered coat is the more prized, as entitlement to its use can indicate who is chief of the name and arms and holds the headship of a clan. For example, Flora Fraser, Lady Saltoun of Abernethy has arms as chief of Fraser—the plain coat of 'azure, three fraises argent'—and a 'private' quartered coat. The Powys-Lybbe family appear, likewise, to usually use only the quarterings of Powys and Lybbe. However these are not true quarterings as the arms were changed in 1907 to be an impartible design of the two arms; the personal arms are precisely this design, with no quarterings despite its appearance. (If this were a quartering the following would apply: when only two different coats of arms are shown, each one is repeated twice in order to fill up the minimum number of four quarterings on such a display.) Prior to the 1907 change, the family did quarter their arms with Lybbe but with the Powys arms in the top left quarter as these were the family arms; the new design has Lybbe in the top left as Lybbe is the last part of the name.\n\n"}
{"id": "40536338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40536338", "title": "Reef knot", "text": "Reef knot\n\nThe reef knot, or square knot, is an ancient and simple binding knot used to secure a rope or line around an object. It is sometimes also referred to as a Hercules knot. The knot is formed by tying a left-handed overhand knot and then a right-handed overhand knot, or vice versa. A common mnemonic for this procedure is \"right over left; left over right\", which is often appended with the rhyming suffix \"... makes a knot both tidy and tight\". Two consecutive overhands of the same handedness will make a granny knot. The working ends of the reef knot must emerge both at the top or both at the bottom, otherwise a thief knot results.\n\nAlthough the reef knot is often seen used for tying two ropes together, it is not recommended for this purpose because of the potential instability of the knot, and over-use has resulted in many deaths (see Misuse as a bend).\n\nThe reef knot is at least 4,000 years old. The name \"reef knot\" dates from at least 1794 and originates from its common use to reef sails, that is to tie part of the sail down to decrease its effective surface area in strong winds. To release the knot a sailor could collapse it with a pull of one hand; the sail's weight would make the collapsed knot come apart. It is specifically this behavior which makes the knot unsafe for connecting two ropes together.\n\nThe name \"square knot\" is found in Dana's 1841 maritime compendium \"A Seaman's Friend\", which also gives \"reef knot\" as an alternative name.\n\nThe name \"square knot\" is often used for the unslipped version of reef knot. \"Reef knot\" itself then is understood as the single slipped version, while the name shoelace knot is to indicate double slipped version. Sometimes the name bowtie also may be used to indicate a double slipped version, but tying a bowtie is usually performed on flat material, and involves a slip knot of one end holding a bight of the other end i.e. not really a double slipped reef knot. The name \"Square knot\" is also used for completely different other knots such as the mathematical concept of square knot, or friendship knot; this last one earns the name by being flat and drawing a square on one face (and a cross on the other face).\n\nThe reef knot is used to tie the two ends of a single line together such that they will secure something, for example a bundle of objects, that is unlikely to move much. In addition to being used by sailors for reefing and furling sails, it is also one of the key knots of macrame textiles.\n\nThe knot lies flat when made with cloth and has been used for tying bandages for millennia. As a binding knot it was known to the ancient Greeks as the Hercules knot (\"Herakleotikon hamma\") and is still used extensively in medicine. In his \"Natural History\", Pliny relates the belief that wounds heal more quickly when bound with a Hercules knot.\n\nIt has also been used since ancient times to tie belts and sashes. A modern use in this manner includes tying the obi (or belt) of a martial arts keikogi.\n\nWith both ends tucked (slipped) it becomes a good way to tie shoelaces, whilst the non-slipped version is useful for shoelaces that are excessively short. It is appropriate for tying plastic garbage or trash bags, as the knot forms a handle when tied in two twisted edges of the bag.\n\nThe reef knot figures prominently in Scouting worldwide. It is included in the international membership badge and many scouting awards. In the Boy Scouts of America demonstrating the proper tying of the square knot is a requirement for all boys joining the program. In Pioneering (Scouting), it is commonly used as a binding knot to finish off specialized lashing (ropework) and whipping knots. However, it is an insecure knot, unstable when jiggled, and is not suitable for supporting weight.\n\nA surgeon's variation, used where a third hand is unavailable, is made with two or three twists of the ropes on bottom, and sometimes on top, instead of just one.\n\nThe reef knot's familiarity, ease of tying, and visually appealing symmetry conceal its weakness. The International Guild of Knot Tyers warns that this knot should never be used to bend two ropes together. A proper bend knot, for instance a sheet bend or double fisherman's knot, should be used instead. Knotting authority Clifford Ashley claimed that misused reef knots have caused more deaths and injuries than all other knots combined. Further, it is easily confused with the granny knot, which is a very poor knot.\n\nAn approximate physical analysis predicts that a reef knot will hold if formula_1, where μ is the relevant coefficient of friction. This inequality holds if formula_2. Experiments show that the critical value of μ is actually somewhat lower.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "549291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549291", "title": "Romanzo d' appendice", "text": "Romanzo d' appendice\n\nRomanzo d'appendìce (Italian for Feuilleton) was a popular genre in literature, which originated in England and France, in the second half of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th.\n\nThis literary genre is characterised by the existence of many and often recurring characters, and by many cliffhangers at the end of a chapter, to ensure sales of the next episode. This is a clear case of form influencing content: these novels were published in episodes in newspapers and could in a certain sense be compared to modern soap opera. Ponson du Terrail, Eugene Sue, Maurice Leblanc, Gustave Le Rouge and Michel Zévaco were among the numerous authors which contributed to the genre.\n\nFeuilleton is used in current language to indicate a quite improbable story.\n"}
{"id": "246918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246918", "title": "Singular term", "text": "Singular term\n\nA singular term is a paradigmatic referring device in a language. Singular terms are of philosophical importance for philosophers of language, because they \"refer\" to things in the world, and the ability of words to refer calls for scrutiny.\n\nSingular terms are defined as expressions that purport to denote or designate particular individual people, places, or other objects. They contrast with \"general terms\" (such as \"car\" or \"chair\") which can apply to more than one thing. \n\nThere are various kinds of singular terms: proper names (eg. \"Matthew\"), definite descriptions (eg. \"the second fisherman in the boat\"), singular personal pronouns (eg. \"she\"), demonstrative pronouns (eg. \"this\"), etc.\n\nHistorically, various definitions for \"singular term\" have been offered:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46186851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46186851", "title": "Soft infrastructure", "text": "Soft infrastructure\n\nSoft infrastructure is all the services which are required to maintain the economic, health, and cultural and social standards of a population. It includes both physical assets such as highly specialised buildings and equipment, as well as non-physical assets, such as communication, the body of rules and regulations governing the various systems, the financing of these systems, the systems and organisations by which professionals are trained, advance in their careers by acquiring experience, and are disciplined if required by professional associations. It includes institutions such as the financial system, the education system, the health care system, the system of government, and law enforcement, and emergency services. \n\nThe essence of soft infrastructure is the delivery of specialised services to people. Unlike much of the service sector of the economy, the delivery of those services depends on highly developed systems and large specialised facilities, fleets of specialised vehicles or institutions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17846349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17846349", "title": "Symmachi–Nicomachi diptych", "text": "Symmachi–Nicomachi diptych\n\nThe Symmachi–Nicomachi diptych is a book-size, Late Antique ivory diptych dating to the late fourth or early fifth century, whose panels depict scenes of ritual pagan religious practices. Both its style and its content reflect a short-lived revival of traditional Roman religion and Classicism at a time when the Roman world was turning towards Christianity and rejecting the Classical tradition.\n\nThe diptych takes its name from the inscriptions \"Nicomachorum\" and \"Symmachorum\", in reference to two prominent Roman Senate families.\n\nThe diptych remained intact until the nineteenth century. The earliest description of the leaves dates to 1717, when an inventory of the monastery of Montier-en-Der records them as doors on an early thirteenth century reliquary. Art historian Richard Delbrueck uncovered a mention of the panels in the abbot Adso's tenth century biography of Bercharius, who founded the monastery ca. 670. Adso wrote that his predecessor \"visited Jerusalem and obtained very many sacred relics, and he brought back with him excellent tablets of ivory.\"\n\nWhen the events of the French Revolution forced the closure of the monastery in 1790, the reliquary and its panels were temporarily lost. The Nicomachi wing was recovered in 1860 from a well, heavily damaged by fire, and the mostly intact Symmachi panel resurfaced in the hands of a collector not long after. They were subsequently acquired by the Musée de Cluny and the Victoria and Albert Museum respectively.\n\nThe diptych was produced in Rome sometime between 388 and 401. The Nicomachi panel measures , that of the Symmachi is . Both wings depict female figures engaged in religious ritual before sacrificial altars. The Nicomachi tablet in Paris is the less well preserved of the pair, having been damaged in a fire. The ivory is fractured in several places, with some sections missing completely, together with high-relief areas such as the female figure's face, left hand and right arm. This figure stands before a round altar, holding two lit torches now partially missing. Cymbals hang from a pine tree overhead; both the tree and its hangings are attributes of the goddess Cybele and her consort Attis.\n\nThe Symmachi leaf in the London diptych has an ivy-crowned woman sprinkling incense over the flames of a square altar, garlanded with oak wreaths. She is attended by a small figure holding a kantharos and a bowl of fruit. The oak garlands and overhead oak tree suggest the worship of Jupiter, while the ivy leaves recall the god Dionysus. The female figures have been variously interpreted as priestesses and as goddesses.\n\nThe panels are believed to celebrate the alliance through marriage of two senatorial families, the Symmachi and Nicomachi. The most likely candidates are the daughter of Senator Quintus Aurelius Symmachus and Nicomachus Flavianus, the son of his colleague Virius Nicomachus Flavianus, although it has also been suggested that the panels may instead commemorate the marriage of Symmachus' son, Q. Fabius Memmius Symmachus with the granddaughter of the aforementioned colleague. Diptychs were often commissioned by leading Roman families to celebrate important events, most often the attainment of the consulship. The diptych form, at least originally, served as a pair of covers for wax writing tablets.\n\nThe work as a whole has been interpreted as a study in nostalgia. Just as the majority of the Roman world had rejected polytheism in favor of Christianity, so too it left behind the techniques of proportion and perspective that characterised the art of its forebears.\n\n----\n"}
{"id": "23279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23279", "title": "The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch", "text": "The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\n\nThe Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch is a 1965 science fiction novel by US writer Philip K. Dick. It was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1965.\n\nThe novel takes place some time in the 21st century. Under United Nations authority, humankind has colonized every habitable planet and moon in the solar system. Like many of Dick's novels, it utilizes an array of science fiction concepts, features several layers of reality and unreality and philosophical ideas. It is one of Dick's first works to explore religious themes. As the book explains, the 'three stigmata' are a mechanical arm, slotted eyes and metallic teeth, which represent alienation, blurred reality, and despair.\n\nThe story begins in a future world where global temperatures have risen so high that in most of the world it is unsafe to be outside without special cooling gear during daylight hours. In a desperate bid to preserve humanity and ease population burdens on Earth, the UN has initiated a \"draft\" for colonizing the nearby planets, where conditions are so horrific and primitive that the unwilling colonists have fallen prey to a form of escapism involving the use of an illegal drug (Can-D) in concert with \"layouts.\" Layouts are physical props intended to simulate a sort of alternate reality where life is easier than either the grim existence of the colonists in their marginal off-world colonies, or even Earth, where global warming has progressed to the point that Antarctica is prime vacation resort territory. The illegal drug Can-D allows people to \"share\" their experience of the \"Perky Pat\" (the name of the main female character in the simulated world) layouts. This \"sharing\" has caused a pseudo-religious cult or series of cults to grow up around the layouts and the use of the drug.\n\nUp to the point where the novel begins, New York City-based Perky Pat (or P.P.) Layouts, Inc., has held a monopoly on this product, as well as on the illegal trade in the drug Can-D which makes the shared hallucinations possible.\n\nThe novel opens shortly after Barney Mayerson, P.P. Layouts' top precog, has received a \"draft notice\" from the UN for involuntary resettlement as a colonist on Mars. Mayerson is sleeping with his assistant, Roni Fugate, but remains conflicted about the divorce, which he himself initiated, from his first wife Emily, a ceramic pot artist. Meanwhile, Emily's second husband tries to sell her pot designs to P.P. Layouts as possible accessories for the Perky Pat virtual worlds—but Barney, recognizing them as Emily's, rejects them out of spite.\n\nMeanwhile, the UN rescues Palmer Eldritch's ship from a crash on Pluto. Leo Bulero, head of P.P. Layouts and an \"evolved\" human (meaning someone who has undergone expensive genetic treatments by a German \"doctor\" which are supposed to push the client \"forward\" on an evolutionary scale, and which result in gross physical, as well as mental, modifications), hears rumors that Eldritch discovered an alien hallucinogen in the Prox system with similar properties to Can-D, and that he plans to market it as \"Chew-Z,\" with UN approval, on off-world colonies. However Chew-Z does not require the prop of the external layouts and seems to have certain undefined qualities that make the use of Chew-Z even more addictive than Can-D has been. This would effectively destroy P.P. Layouts. Bulero tries to contact Eldritch but he is quarantined at a UN hospital. Both Mayerson and Fugate have precognitions of reports that Bulero is going to be responsible for murdering Eldritch.\n\nUnder the guise of a reporter, Bulero travels to Eldritch's estate on the Moon, where Eldritch holds a press conference. Bulero is kidnapped and forced to take Chew-Z intravenously. He enters a psychic netherworld over which both he and Eldritch seemingly have some control. After wrangling about business with Eldritch, Bulero travels to what appears to be Earth at some time in the not-too-distant future. Evolved humans identify him as a ghost and show him a monument to himself commemorating his role in the death of Eldritch, an \"enemy of the Sol System.\"\n\nBulero returns to Earth and fires Mayerson because Mayerson was afraid to travel to the Moon to rescue him. Mayerson, in despair, accepts his UN conscription to Mars but Bulero recruits him as a double agent. Mayerson is to inject himself with a toxin after taking Chew-Z in a plot to deceive the UN into thinking Chew-Z is harmful and cause them to ban it.\n\nOn Mars, Mayerson buys some Chew-Z from Eldritch, who appears in holographic form. Mayerson tries to hallucinate a world where he is still with Emily but finds that he does not control his apparent hallucination. Like Bulero, he finds himself in the future. Mayerson arrives in New York two years hence where he speaks with Bulero, Fugate and his future self about the death of Palmer Eldritch.\n\nHe also encounters several manifestations of Eldritch, identifiable by their robotic right hand, artificial eyes, and steel teeth. Eldritch offers to help Mayerson become whatever he wants, but is so controlling of the Chew-Z alternate reality that Mayerson ultimately decides he'd rather be dead than continue to be manipulated by Eldritch. When a despairing Mayerson chooses death, he finds himself apparently forced into Eldritch's body right at the point in the timeline where Bulero is ready to shoot a torpedo at Eldritch's ship. It appears that Eldritch's plan is to preserve his own life essence housed in Mayerson's body while allowing Mayerson himself to die in Eldritch's place. Eldritch, meanwhile, intends to live on in Mayerson's form and enjoy the simple if arduous life of a Martian colonist. Mayerson, stuck in Eldritch's body and mistaken for him, is indeed nearly killed by Bulero in the near future, but before the fatal shot can be fired he is awakened from his Chew-Z trance in the present by Bulero, who has just arrived on Mars.\n\nBulero is willing to take Mayerson back to Earth but refuses to after learning that Mayerson did not inject himself with the toxin. Mayerson is now confident that Bulero will kill Eldritch, so the sacrifice of taking the toxin in order to ruin Eldritch's business is unnecessary; but he does not try to convince Bulero of this. Later, Mayerson discusses his experience with a neo-Christian colonist and they conclude that either Eldritch became a god in the Prox system or some god-like being has taken his place. Mayerson is convinced some aspect of Eldritch is still inside him, and that as long as he refuses to take Chew-Z again, it is Eldritch who will actually be killed by Bulero in the near future; Mayerson is half-resigned, half-hopeful about taking on the life of a Martian colonist without reprieve. Mayerson considers the possibility of Eldritch being what humans have always thought of as a god, but inimical, or perhaps merely an inferior aspect of a bigger and better sort of god.\n\nThe novel has an ambiguous ending, with Bulero heading back toward Earth, and apparent proliferation of Eldritch's cyborg bodily 'stigmata', which may mean that Bulero is still trapped in Eldritch's hallucinatory domain, or that Chew-Z is becoming increasingly popular among Terrans and Martian colonists.\n\n\nAlgis Budrys of \"Galaxy Science Fiction\" described the novel as \"an important, beautifully controlled, smoothly created book which will twist your mind if you give it the least chance to do so\". He praised Dick's accomplishment, saying \"the whole creation resonates to the touch of the only present science-fiction writer who could possibly have done it\" and characterizes the result as \"a witty, sometimes lighthearted, and always fascinating piece of fiction\". Budrys later named the book the best science-fiction novel of his first year as reviewer for the magazine, reporting that others \"are calling it some kind of half-conscious failure\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15319691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15319691", "title": "Thomas Higgins (Irish politician)", "text": "Thomas Higgins (Irish politician)\n\nThomas Higgins (27 November 1865 − 26 January 1906) was an Irish nationalist politician, auctioneer and farmer, who as member of the Irish Parliamentary Party was posthumously declared elected Member of Parliament of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1906.\n\nHiggins was born in Moylough, the son of Martin Higgins, a shopkeeper, and Catherine Kelly. \n\nHe was chairman of Tuam Board of Guardians and a member of Galway County Council, was selected as the Irish Parliamentary Party candidate by the United Irish League (UIL) convention on 5 January 1906 to contest the 1906 general election. He had been President of the constituency branch of the UIL since 1900. \n\nTaken ill on the night of the election (25 January 1906), he died as the result of a heart attack in Guy's Hotel, Tuam, at 1.30am the following morning (26 January 1906). \n\nAs was widely expected, Higgins topped the poll at the election count, which was held later on the day of his death, beating the incumbent MP, John Philip Nolan, who had stood as an Independent Nationalist. Higgins, who received 2,685 votes (Nolan took 1,064), was posthumously declared elected by the county sheriff, the returning officer.\n\nThe remarkable circumstances surrounding the election led the \"Irish Independent\" to comment that \"candidates have died before the actual election, but we doubt if ever such a case as the present has occurred before, where a candidate has died after the poll has been taken and before the result has been declared\". \n\nThis circumstance of a candidate winning a seat posthumously occurred again to Noel Skelton in 1935, and to Sir Edward Taswell Campbell and Leslie Pym in 1945; however, all of them were candidates for \"re-\"election. Thomas Higgins is the only MP to be \"newly\" elected posthumously.\n\nHiggins, who was married, was 40 when he died. \n\n"}
{"id": "43909070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43909070", "title": "Three-part lesson", "text": "Three-part lesson\n\nA three-part lesson is an inquiry-based learning method used to teach mathematics in K–12 schools.\n\nThe three-part lesson has been attributed to John A. Van de Walle, a mathematician at Virginia Commonwealth University.\n\nThe purpose is to cognitively prepare students for the math lesson by having them think about a procedure, strategy or concept used in a prior lesson. Teachers determine what specific previous learning they wish students to recall, based on outcomes desired for that particular lesson. The role of the teacher is to \"get students mentally prepared to work on the problem\".\n\nMarian Small, a proponent of a constructivist approach to mathematical instruction, provides an example of an inquiry-based question from which a three-part lesson could be created: \"one bus has 47 students in it; another has 38. How many students are on both buses?\"\n\nStudents engage in solving math problems individually, in pairs, or in small groups, and \"record the mathematical thinking they used to develop solutions\". Students then plan the strategies, methods, and concrete materials they will use to solve the problem. The teacher will circulate and make observations about the ways students are interacting, and will note the mathematical language they are using as well as the mathematical models they are employing to solve the problem. If a student is having difficulty, \"the teacher might pose questions to provoke further thinking or have other students explain their plan for solving the problem\". Teachers are advised to be active listeners in this phase, and to take notes. This is also a phase in which teachers can assess students. \n\nIn this final phase, the teacher oversees the sharing of solutions by students, and may employ other teaching techniques such as \"math congress\", \"gallery walk\", or \"bansho\". If new methods and strategies were discovered by students during the work phase, the teacher will post these on the class's \"strategy wall\", or use them to develop an \"anchor chart\". Teachers are not to evaluate students in this phase, but should be actively listening \"to both good and not so good ideas\". \n\nAdvocates of the three-part lesson state that students develop \"independence and confidence by choosing the methods, strategies and concrete materials they will use, as well as ways to record their solutions\". They claim students learn to discern similarities and differences in the mathematics, and also that \"through such rich mathematics classroom discourse, students develop and consolidate their understanding of the learning goal of the lesson in terms of making connections to prior knowledge and experiences and making generalizations\". Advocates also claim \"students are more enthusiastic about the subject\" when inquiry-based math instruction is used.\n\nOpponents of inquiry-based methods such as the three-part lesson state that students are not learning the basics such as multiplication tables. In Ontario, Canada, where the Ministry of Education has promoted the three-part lesson, the curriculum was changed in the late 1990s in favour of \"problem solving based on open-ended investigations rather than memorization\". In that province, test scores in grades three and grade six math declined between 2009 and 2013, and \"some contend that the math curriculum rather than teacher education is to blame for the lower scores because it places more emphasis on real-world concepts and applications than on rote learning\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33896833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33896833", "title": "Urban acupuncture", "text": "Urban acupuncture\n\nUrban acupuncture is a socio-environmental theory that combines contemporary urban design with traditional Chinese acupuncture, using small-scale interventions to transform the larger urban context. Sites are selected through analysis of aggregate social, economic and ecological factors, and are developed through a dialogue between designers and the community. Just as the practice of acupuncture is aimed at relieving stress in the human body, the goal of urban acupuncture is to relieve stress in the built environment. In Taipei, there was an urban acupuncture workshop that aimed to \"produce small-scale but socially catalytic interventions\" into the city's fabric.\n\nOriginally coined by Barcelonan architect and urbanist, Manuel de Sola Morales, the term has been recently championed and developed further by Finnish architect and social theorist Marco Casagrande, this school of thought eschews massive urban renewal projects in favour of a more localised and community approach that, in an era of constrained budgets and limited resources, could democratically and cheaply offer a respite to urban dwellers.\nCasagrande views cities as complex energy organisms in which different overlapping layers of energy flows are determining the actions of the citizens as well as the development of the city. By mixing environmentalism and urban design Casagrande is developing methods of punctual manipulation of the urban energy flows in order to create an ecologically sustainable urban development towards the so-called 3rd Generation City (postindustrial city). The theory is developed in the Tamkang University of Taiwan and at independent multidisciplinary research center Ruin Academy. With focus on environmentalism and urban design, Casagrande defines urban acupuncture as a design tool where punctual manipulations contribute to creating sustainable urban development, such as the community gardens and urban farms in Taipei.\n\nCasagrande describes urban acupuncture as:\n\n\"[a] cross-over architectural manipulation of the collective sensuous intellect of a city. City is viewed as multi-dimensional sensitive energy-organism, a living environment. Urban acupuncture aims into a touch with this nature.\" and \"Sensitivity to understand the energy flows of the collective chi beneath the visual city and reacting on the hot-spots of this chi. Architecture is in the position to produce the acupuncture needles for the urban chi.\" and \"A weed will root into the smallest crack in the asphalt and eventually break the city. Urban acupuncture is the weed and the acupuncture point is the crack. The possibility of the impact is total, connecting human nature as part of nature.\"\n\nCasagrande utilized the tenets of acupuncture: treat the points of blockage and let relief ripple throughout the body. More immediate and sensitive to community needs than traditional institutional forms of large scale urban renewal interventions would not only respond to localized needs, but do so with a knowledge of how citywide systems operated and converged at that single node. Release pressure at strategic points, release pressure for the whole city.\n\nIn theory, urban acupuncture opens the door for uncontrolled creativity and freedom. Citizens are enabled to join the creative participatory planning process, feel free to use city space for any purpose and develop their environment according to their will. This \"new\" post-industrialized city Casagrande, dubbed the Third Generation City, is driven by people who are concerned about the destruction that the modern machine is causing to nature including human nature. They want sustainable co-operation with the rest of the nature. In a larger context, a site of urban acupuncture can be viewed as communicating to the city outside like a natural sign of life in a city programmed to subsume it.\n\nUrban acupuncture bears some similarities to the new urbanist concept of Tactical Urbanism. The idea focuses on local resources rather than capital-intensive municipal programs and promotes the idea of citizens installing and caring for interventions. These small changes, proponents claim, will boost community morale and catalyze revitalization. Boiled down to a simple statement, \"urban acupuncture\" means focusing on small, subtle, bottom-up interventions that harness and direct community energy in positive ways to heal urban blight and improve the cityscape. It is meant as an alternative to large, top-down, mega-interventions that typically require heavy investments of municipal funds (which many cities at the moment simply don't have) and the navigation of yards of bureaucratic red tape. The micro-scale interventions targeted by \"urban acupuncture\" appeal to both citizen-activists and cash-strapped communities. In Mexico urban acupuncture converts temporary housing, like sheds in the slums, to simple homes that allow for \"add-ons\" later, based on need and affordability. This strategy transforms the slum zone, without relocating families that have been living together for generations. In South Africa Urban Acupuncture is viewed as a possibility to provide a means for people to unlock their creativity and the advantages thereof, for example, innovation and entrepreneurship concentrating on parts of the city, i.e. communities thereby providing opportunities to those areas which do not have the sort of infrastructure that is found in mainstream cities. This approach can provide a more realistic and less costly method for city planners and citizens as an effective way to make minor improvements in the communities in order to achieve a greater good in the cities.\n\nJaime Lerner, the former mayor of Curitiba, suggests urban acupuncture as the future solution for contemporary urban issues; by focusing on very narrow pressure points in cities, we can initiate positive ripple effects for the greater society. Urban acupuncture reclaims the ownership of land to the public and emphasizes the importance of community development through small interventions in design of cities. It involves pinpointed interventions that can be accomplished quickly to release energy and create a positive ripple effect.\nHe described in 2007:\n\"I believe that some medicinal \"magic\" can and should be applied to cities, as many are sick and some nearly terminal. As with the medicine needed in the interaction between doctor and patient, in urban planning it is also necessary to make the city react; to poke an area in such a way that it is able to help heal, improve, and create positive chain reactions. It is indispensable in revitalizing interventions to make the organism work in a different way.\"\n\nTaiwanese architect and academic Ti-Nan Chi is looking with micro urbanism at the vulnerable and insignificant side of contemporary cities around the world identified as micro-zones, points for recovery in which micro-projects have been carefully proposed to involve the public on different levels, aiming to resolve conflicts among property owners, villagers, and the general public. A loosely affiliated team of architects Wang Shu, Marco Casagrande, Hsieh Ying-chun and Roan Ching-yueh (sometimes called WEAK! Architecture) are describing the unofficial Instant City, or Instant Taipei, as architecture that uses the Official City as a \"growing platform and energy source, where to attach itself like a parasite and from where to leach the electricity and water… [The Instant City's] illegal urban farms or night markets is so widespread and deep rooted in the Taiwanese culture and cityscape that we could almost speak of another city on top of the \"official\" Taipei, a parallel city – or a para-city.\" WEAK! is calling urban acupuncture depending on the context as Illegal Architecture, Orchid Architecture, the People's Architecture, or Weak Architecture. The theory of urban acupuncture suggests that scores of small-scale, less costly and localized projects is what cities need in order to recover and renew themselves.\n\nThe winner of the Deutsche Bank Urban Age Award (DBUAA) Cape Town 2012 is the neighbourhood project \"Mothers Unite\" demonstrating the power of urban acupuncture. Mothers Unite was founded in 2007 and provides a safe haven from the gangsterism, drugs and violence that are part and parcel of street and home life in the area. Built with donated shipping containers, the village is made up of a library, kitchen, office, sheltered area, playground and food garden. Professor Edgar Pieterse:\n\n\"Durable urban change is often about carefully targeted micro interventions that can change the energies and dynamics of a surrounding neighbourhood. When one engages with the physical manifestations that the tenacity, blood, sweat, and tears of the protagonists of Mothers Unite and Masiphumelele Library (another of the eight finalists) have created, the power of urban acupuncture is apparent. These projects serve as reminders that through vision, commitment over the long haul, and principle-based partnerships, just about any problem can be confronted and addressed.\"\n\nIn ecological restoration of industrial cities Urban Acupuncture can take form as spontaneous and often illegal urban farms and community gardens punctuating the more mechanical city and tuning it towards a more sustainable co-existence with the natural environment. \nUrban Acupuncture areas can receive, treat and recycle the waste from the surrounding city acting as eco-valleys within the urban fabric. In River Urbanism the Urban Acupuncture areas can include underground stormwater reservoirs and act as flood relief for the surrounding city as a sponge and they can act as biological filters purifying water originated from polluted rivers. Urban acupuncture is a point by point manipulation of the urban energy to create a sustainable town or city, which Marco Casagrande has dubbed '3rd Generation Cities'.\n\nAmerican artist Gordon Matta-Clark is credited with developing a system for identifying pockets of disrepair in the built environment—the first step in the framework of urban acupuncture. \nArtist Miru Kim explores industrial ruins and structures making her look at the city as one living organism. She claims to feel not only the skin of the city, but also to penetrate the inner layers of its intestines and veins, which swarm with minuscule life forms. Referring to a public environmental art work, Cicada, Casagrande explains:\n\n\"Cicada is urban acupuncture for Taipei city penetrating the hard surfaces of industrial laziness in order to reach the original ground and get in touch with the collective Chi, the local knowledge that binds the people of Taipei basin with nature. The cocoon of Cicada is an accidental mediator between the modern man and reality. There is no other reality than nature.\"\n\nEnvironmental art as urban acupuncture is an artistic way of injecting a healthy dose of natural elements and human scale into the mechanized urban grid.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265148", "title": "Without a Clue", "text": "Without a Clue\n\nWithout a Clue is a 1988 British comedy film directed by Thom Eberhardt and starring Michael Caine and Ben Kingsley. It's based on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's characters from Sherlock Holmes stories, but uses them in comedic style, with addition of Doyle's struggling with Holmes' popularity.\n\nSherlock Holmes is a fictional character created by Dr. John Watson (Ben Kingsley) as the central character in a series of short stories published in \"The Strand Magazine\". Watson uses the character to enable him to solve crimes incognito, so as not to disrupt his career as a doctor during a period when he was applying for a post at an exclusive hospital; one in which the senior staff would frown on Watson's \"hobby\". Although he doesn't secure the job, Watson decides to satisfy public demand to see Holmes in person by hiring unemployed actor Reginald Kincaid (Michael Caine) to play the part of the fictional detective.\n\nContinuing to investigate cases, now with Kincaid as \"Holmes\" by his side, Watson is the detective hidden behind the charade of the fictional Sherlock Holmes. Kincaid must rely on direction from Watson, memorizing the doctor's exacting, detailed instructions every step of the way.\n\nAfter a major case at a museum, Kincaid oversteps his boundaries with Watson, who fires him. Watson wants to write the character off and tries to start a new series about \"The Crime Doctor\" with Watson himself being recognized as the great detective. The Strand's editor, Norman Greenhough (Peter Cook) is quite cold to the idea, as is everyone else.\n\nWith a new crime, Watson finds he is unable to get information on his own; only when he mentions \"Holmes\" does he get anywhere. As the crime becomes a major case, the British government seeks the aid of \"Sherlock Holmes\" and will accept no one else, including Watson's \"Crime Doctor\". The mystery involves the Bank of England £5 banknote printing plates that have been stolen, with the printing supervisor, Peter Giles, having gone missing on the night of the robbery. With the counterfeiting of these £5 notes, the collapse of the British Empire's economy would be inevitable.\n\nScotland Yard's Inspector Lestrade (Jeffrey Jones) is jealous of \"Sherlock Holmes\". He takes every opportunity to spy on \"Holmes\" and Watson and to steal their ideas. The path of clues leads them to Giles' daughter, Leslie (Lysette Anthony) and twelve-year-old street urchin, Wiggins (Matthew Savage) the leader of the boys Watson pays to keep an eye on people, whom he calls the \"Baker Street irregulars\", in contrast to the \"regular\" London police force.\n\nWatson and Kincaid discover that Professor Moriarty (Paul Freeman) is the mastermind behind the scheme. Watson is apparently killed, forcing Kincaid to solve the case on his own. Having tracked the villain to an abandoned theatre, Kincaid discovers that Watson is still alive and that the woman who they thought was Leslie is actually one of Moriarty's spies, while the real one is Giles' son and a transvestite and female impersonator who has a famous revue in Paris called \"Les Femmes Faux\". The two work together to free both Giles men and defeat Moriarty for good.\n\nWatson has a new appreciation for Kincaid, who now publicly gives him a large share of the credit and the public is assured that the team of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson will continue their detective work.\n\n\nThe film is one of several spoofs that have been made of the canonical Sherlock Holmes. This particular one has three notable features, courtesy of writers Gary Murphy and Larry Strawther, two devoted Sherlockians. Firstly the main characters have been reversed, with a bumbling Holmes and genius detective Watson replacing the usual bumbling Watson and genius detective Holmes. Secondly, in the film Watson tires of his fictional creation, Holmes, and tries unsuccessfully to terminate his role, but is forced to bring him back by popular demand. This mirrors the real-life situation of the author Arthur Conan Doyle (also a physician), who tired of his fictional creation Holmes and tried unsuccessfully to kill him off. Thirdly, the character of Norman Greenhough is inspired by Herbert Greenhough Smith, the very real editor of \"The Strand Magazine\", whose faith in the Holmes/Watson characters brought fame and fortune to both writer and periodical.\n\nThe movie has received decent reviews from critics, and is frequently included in \"top 10\" lists of Sherlock films.\n\nHowever, the American critic, Roger Ebert, gave the film two stars out of four:\n\n"}
{"id": "7446336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7446336", "title": "Wordsworth McAndrew", "text": "Wordsworth McAndrew\n\nWordsworth McAndrew (1936 – 25 April 2008) was a leading Guyana folklorist, poet, and creative artist.\n\nMcAndrew was born in 1936 in Georgetown, British Guiana, to Winslow Alexander McAndrew and Ivy McAndrew. His father was a schoolteacher, musician and catechist, who taught in rural Anglican schools. McAndrew was raised in Cummingsburg and, from the age of 12, in Newtown, Kitty. He attended \"Teacher\" Marshall Kindergarten School, Christ Church Primary School and Queen's College.\n\nThrough his work as a radio broadcaster during the 1960s and 1970s, he helped the Guyanese recognize and feel proud of their mythological and folkloric heritage. He studied and celebrated Guyanese language and culture, using all media available to explain and promote Guyanese cultural characteristics.\n\nMcAndrew died on 25 April 2008, at the East Orange Hospital, in New Jersey, where he had been living in self-imposed exile.\n\nThe Wordsworth McAndrew Award, founded in 2002 to celebrate Guyanese who have made important contributions to the country's cultural life, was named in his honour.\n\n"}
