{"id": "3341292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3341292", "title": "2d Space Operations Squadron", "text": "2d Space Operations Squadron\n\nThe 2d Space Operations Squadron is a unit of the United States Air Force at Schriever Air Force Base, Colorado. Its mission is to manage the Navstar Global Positioning System satellite constellation for global navigation, time transfer, and nuclear detonation detection.\n\nThe squadron is augmented by reserve personnel from the 19th Space Operations Squadron, part of the 310th Space Wing.\n\nThe squadron performs the command and control mission for the Global Positioning System satellite constellation. GPS is the world's premiere space-based position, velocity and timing system, capable of providing precision navigation and timing capability simultaneously to an unlimited number of properly equipped users. Continuous GPS availability and unprecedented signal accuracy has resulted in widespread integration of the technology; numerous military, commercial and international users have embraced GPS.\n\nThe squadron was originally constituted as the 2d Surveillance Squadron and activated on 16 January 1962 under North American Air Defense Command. It was then organized on 1 February 1962 at Ent Air Force Base under the 9th Aerospace Defense Division, under which it operated SPACETRACK, the USAF globe-spanning space surveillance network, from 1962 through 1967. The squadron was inactivated on 1 January 1967.\n\nIt was redesignated the 2d Satellite Control Squadron as the first operational squadron of the 2d Space Wing. It was activated at Falcon Air Force Station on 1 October 1985.\n\nThe squadron has controlled the NAVSTAR Global Positioning System satellite constellation and managed the Nuclear Detonation System in support of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty since 1987.\n\nOn 30 January 1992, as part of an Air Force reorganization, 2 SCS was redesignated the 2d Space Operations Squadron.\n\nOn June 18, 2004, a 24/7 user focal point, the GPSOC, was established.\n\nIn late 2005, several National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency monitor stations were integrated into the network to improve navigation accuracy and signal monitoring.\n\nThe unit had one geographically separated unit, Detachment 1, at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida. It was responsible for maintenance of a GPS Ground Antenna, Monitor Station, and various operational test assets. It is now discontinued, though contractors remained to perform the mission.\n\n\n\n\nAir Force Outstanding Unit Award\n\n\n"}
{"id": "888601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=888601", "title": "516 Amherstia", "text": "516 Amherstia\n\nAmherstia (minor planet designation: 516 Amherstia) was the 8th asteroid discovered by Raymond Smith Dugan, and was named after Amherst College, his alma mater. Amherstia is a large M-type asteroid, with an estimated diameter of 73 km. It follows an eccentric orbit between Jupiter and Mars, with an orbital period of 4.39 years.\n\nIn 1989, the asteroid was observed from the Collurania-Teramo Observatory, allowing a light curve to be produced that showed an estimated rotation period of 7.49 hours and a brightness variation of 0.25 ± 0.01 in magnitude.\n"}
{"id": "20760475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20760475", "title": "6th parallel north", "text": "6th parallel north\n\nThe 6th parallel north is a circle of latitude that is 6 degrees north of the Earth's equatorial plane. It crosses Africa, the Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, the Pacific Ocean, South America and the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 6° north passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "47183139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47183139", "title": "Antonio Lafreri", "text": "Antonio Lafreri\n\nAntonio Lafreri, or Antoine Lafréry, also Antoine du Pérac Lafréry (Orgelet, 1512 ca. - Rome, 1577), was a French engraver, cartographer and publisher, active in Rome.\n\nBorn in Franche-Comté (France), Lafreri settled in Rome around 1540. His most important work is the so-called Atlases of Lafreri, published in Rome in 1570, one of the first organic collection of printed maps, having on its frontespice the figure of Atlas holding the earth. Reproductions of the City of Naples (cit. Miradois Palace), dated 1566, are on display at the Museum of San Martino in Naples. For the Atlas he collaborated with the most important Italian cartographers of the time: Giacomo Gastaldi, Battista Agnese, Antonio Salamanca, Francesco Camocio the Younger, Donato Bertelli, Ferando Bertelli and Paolo Forlani.\nIn 1575 he finished the \"Speculum Romanae Magnificentiae\", a collection of 200 engravings of Rome, organized in three volumes.\nIn 2014 the Bavarian State Library bought from a private collector the Atlases of Lafrery for 1.4 million euro.\n"}
{"id": "5471354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5471354", "title": "Australian Geography Competition", "text": "Australian Geography Competition\n\nThe Australian Geography Competition is an Australia-wide competition run by the Royal Geographic Society of Queensland and the Australian Geography Teachers Association and sponsored by the National Geographic Channel. It tests the geographic knowledge of high school students from years 8-12. It starts with a written multiple choice test in early March. In the under 16 competition the winners from each state & the territories (Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory, Cocos Islands) are taken as well as a runner up who has the highest score after these winners. These people are flown to Sydney at the start of June for a weekend of sightseeing followed by the national final. The winners go on to the National Geographic World Championship to represent Australia. The competition is also used to select the members of the Australian team for the International Geography Olympiad.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24502200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24502200", "title": "Avenue Matsoua", "text": "Avenue Matsoua\n\nThe most famous place in Brazzaville (the capital city of Congo) is the Avenue Matsoua. \n\nIt is named after one of the imperialist Congolese Andre Grenard Matsoua. He was the first small airport in the last years before the independence of Congo. Located in the arrondissement 2 \"Bacongo\", the Avenue Matsoua is the place of demonstration of the Sapers. The place became famous in 1960, when the first Congolese students came back from Paris with beautiful clothes such as CASAKA, MPOUYOUNGOU, and CLOCHARD. Several movements of Sapologie (the science which studies Sap and plays by Sapelogue) takes place. The avenue in which several conflicts of beautiful sapers are traited by demonstrating the good clothes, and the secret of the three Colours of Sap. On his own, it shelters the Bar BABA BOUM, the Cinema Rio and the others. Many of Congolese living in Europe (specially in France) come to celebrate and to defeat others Sapers.\n\n"}
{"id": "23903898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23903898", "title": "Barköl Kazakh Autonomous County", "text": "Barköl Kazakh Autonomous County\n\nBarköl Kazak Autonomous County (sometimes Barkul or Balikul in English) is part of Kumul Prefecture in Xinjiang and has an area of . It forms part of the China–Mongolia border (bordering the Mongolian provinces of Khovd and Govi-Altai) on the county's north, while bordering Yizhou District to the south, Yiwu County to the east, and Changji's Mori Kazakh Autonomous County to the west.\n\nBarköl was made an autonomous county on October 1, 1954. It is noted for camel and horse breeding with the Barköl horse well known throughout China. Due to the large number of camels, which is unparalleled in China, the county is nicknamed of the \"county of ten thousand camels\".\n\nLake Barkol is an alkali lake in a closed basin located at . Current rainfall averages , while the annual evaporation rate is . Ancient shorelines show up as concentric rings on the satellite photo at right, indicating that water levels have varied many times in the past. One study identified five climates at Lake Barkol over the past 8,000 years, ranging from warm and wet to cold and wet and finally cold and dry at present. The average annual temperature in the area is now just , though temperatures swing from extreme highs () to extreme lows ().\n"}
{"id": "50364648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50364648", "title": "Bishop of Port Harcourt", "text": "Bishop of Port Harcourt\n\nThe Bishop of Port Harcourt is the Ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Port Harcourt in the Ecclesiastical province of Calabar, Nigeria.\n\nThe diocese covers an area of 21,850 km (8,440 square miles). The Episcopal see is in Port Harcourt where the bishop's seat (\"cathedra\") is located at the Corpus Christi Cathedral, D-line. The current bishop is the Most Reverend Camillus Archibong Etokudoh, the third Bishop of Port Harcourt.\n\n"}
{"id": "14286514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14286514", "title": "Breaker (reef)", "text": "Breaker (reef)\n\nA breaker is a piece of reef against which waves break.\n\nThis sense of the term is closely related to another sense, that of the breaking wave itself. In times past, when ocean navigation was relatively rudimentary, a line of breaking waves was a crucial indicator that a boat was bearing down upon an island or reef. This was especially the case when sailing in darkness, in which the highly visible line of froth caused by breaking waves could be the only such indicator. In such cases the line of breakers was charted and named as a \"breaker\".\n"}
{"id": "17998577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17998577", "title": "C. W. Thornthwaite", "text": "C. W. Thornthwaite\n\nCharles Warren Thornthwaite (March 7, 1899 – June 11, 1963) was an American geographer and climatologist. He is best known for devising a climate classification system in 1948 that is still in use worldwide, and also for his detailed water budget computations of potential evapotranspiration.\n\nHe was Professor of Climatology at Johns Hopkins University, adjunct professor at Drexel University, President of the Commission for Climatology of the World Meteorological Organization, a recipient of the Outstanding Achievement Award of the Association of American Geographers, and the Cullum Geographical Medal from the American Geographical Society.\n\nThornthwaite was born in Bay City, Michigan. He attended Central Michigan Normal School, graduating in 1922. He taught at high school for the next two years in Owosso, Michigan, then for the next four years he was employed as a geographer for the Kentucky Geological Survey. While there, he also became an assistant professor in the University of Oklahoma Department of Geography, serving there from 1927 to 1934. Meanwhile, he studied geography through the auspices of the University of California, Berkeley, a student of Carl Sauer.\n\nIn 1930 he received a Ph.D. in geography; his thesis was on \"Louisville, Kentucky: A Study in Urban Geography\", a research project which used aerial photographs, field observation, data analysis and detailed mapping to describe the urban geography of Louisville. He moved away from geography to climatology, but recent scholarship suggests he was nonetheless ahead of his time in his thesis project and that many of the techniques he used would later be standard procedures.\n\nAt Central Michigan Normal School, Thornthwaite befriended John Leighly. Later, they both studied at Berkeley, with Leighly becoming his mentor. Leighly, a professor at UC Berkeley for 62 years, would write his obituary.\n\nIn 1931 Thornthwaite published “The Climates of North America: According to a New Classification”, which launched his career as a climatologist and married the science of climatology with that of geography. In 1934, he left the University of Oklahoma to study internal migration within the United States at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1935, he was appointed chief of the climatic and physiographic research division of the U.S. Soil Conservation Service in the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The division ceased to function in 1942, but he remained on staff of the USDA until 1946. Included in his output from this period was the USDA technical bulletin, written with Benjamin Holzman, \"Measurement of Evaporation from Land and Water Surfaces\".\n\nLeaving government in 1946, Thornthwaite opened the Laboratory of Climatology in Seabrook, New Jersey, which he operated until his death in 1963. The facility continued to operate under the management of John Russell Mather. One of his first papers would also be his most cited: \"An Approach Toward a Rational Classification of Climate\" (1948). This paper would be used by scientists across North America and around the world. It incorporates evapotranspiration, temperature and precipitation information and is widely used in studying animal species diversity and potential impacts of climate change.\n\nMather shared authorship with Thornthwaite in their 1955 monograph \"The Water Balance\", which was Thornthwaite’s second major contribution to climatology, after Rational Classification. The water budget was a simple and easily used methodology for estimating water surpluses and runoff, and the difference between surpluses and runoff, to estimate the amount of water would recharge an aquifer. \n\nThornthwaite was a professor of climatology at Johns Hopkins University from 1947 to 1955.\n\nThornthwaite married Denzil Slentz in 1925. They had three daughters. When his wife died in 1962, he established the Charles Warren and Denzil Slentz Thornthwaite Memorial Scholarship Fund in her memory. The fund awards annual merit scholarships to students in meteorology and earth science at Central Michigan University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39935679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39935679", "title": "Center for Urban and Regional Analysis", "text": "Center for Urban and Regional Analysis\n\nCenter for Urban and Regional Analysis (CURA) \nThe Center for Urban & Regional Analysis (CURA) is an interdisciplinary research organization of The Ohio State University. CURA's mission is to serve as a bridge across academia, industry, and the policy sector by providing spatial analysis of economic, social, environmental, and health issues in urban and regional settings in Ohio and beyond. The organization explores various social, political, economic, geographic, economic, and public health issues using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and other spatial analysis techniques. CURA also offers a speaker series which brings a wide range of speakers to campus each semester. \n\nThe movement for an urban center began in 1995 with a recommendation from the Committee on Applied Social and Public Policy. Funding followed three years later in 1998. CURA then was formed at The Ohio State University in 1999 as the Urban and Regional Analysis Initiative (URAI). Two years later, in April 2001, the organization officially renamed itself the Center for Urban & Regional Analysis and was given final approval by the Board of Trustees. The change was announced in the University's newspaper, The Lantern. The organization was projected to receive $240,000 per year in funding from the state of Ohio along with an additional $150,000 from the Office of Academic Affairs.\n\nCURA has conducted extensive research and analysis on various topics such as air traffic, urban growth, land use, food accessibility, crime, housing, and data mapping through GIS technology. It is one of just eight Ohio Urban University Program (UUP) research institutes. The center provides a place for researchers from many fields to collaborate on critical urban issues.\n\nThe Center for Urban and Regional Analysis is closely associated with Ohio State's Austin E. Knowlton School of Architecture and the Geography Department but collaborates with a wide range of departments and centers at Ohio State including:\n\nIn June 2013, CURA, in collaboration with the Chadwick Arboretum and Learning Gardens, completed a web-based Tree Tour of Ohio State's historic Oval. The Story Map, hosted on ArcGIS.com, provides the user with a guided walking tour of 32 significant and historic trees along with information about each tree's environmental and financial benefits.\n\nIn partnership with the Kirwan Institute of Ohio State, CURA is working to digitize Ohio's redlining maps from the 1930s.\n\nOhio State's Food Innovation Center and the Mid-Ohio Foodbank are working with CURA and using GIS to find ways to increase the equity of fresh food distribution.\n\nCURA partnered with Center for Aviation Studies at OSU to create maps displaying the accessibility of domestic air service in the United States. The maps show data for over 400 airports with an index describing the level of air service of a given region. The project requires the continued input of data to show how the accessibility of given airports changes over time. Graduate Affiliate Kejing Peng created a detailed web application displaying the results of the air traffic analysis. The T100 Airport Traffic Analysis is both interactive and informative to users, providing a great deal of information on individual airports across the country.\n\nWith Ohio State's Facilities Operations and Development, CURA Graduate Associate Shaun Fontanella is planning to develop digital signs for central buildings on campus. The signs will display and track energy consumption of each building in order to encourage decreased consumption.\n\n"}
{"id": "181897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181897", "title": "Cliff", "text": "Cliff\n\nIn geography and geology, a cliff is a vertical, or nearly vertical, rock exposure. Cliffs are formed as erosion landforms by the processes of weathering and erosion. Cliffs are common on coasts, in mountainous areas, escarpments and along rivers. Cliffs are usually formed by rock that is resistant to weathering and erosion. Sedimentary rocks most likely to form cliffs include sandstone, limestone, chalk, and dolomite. Igneous rocks such as granite and basalt also often form cliffs.\n\nAn escarpment (or scarp) is a type of cliff, formed by the movement of a geologic fault or landslide, or by differential erosion of rock layers of differing hardness. \n\nMost cliffs have some form of scree slope at their base. In arid areas or under high cliffs, they are generally exposed jumbles of fallen rock. In areas of higher moisture, a soil slope may obscure the talus. Many cliffs also feature tributary waterfalls or rock shelters. Sometimes a cliff peters out at the end of a ridge, with tea tables or other types of rock columns remaining. Coastal erosion may lead to the formation of sea cliffs along a receding coastline.\n\nThe Ordnance Survey distinguishes between cliffs (continuous line along the top edge with projections down the face) and outcrops (continuous lines along lower edge).\n\nCliff comes from the Old English word \"clif\" of essentially the same meaning, cognate with Dutch, Low German, and Old Norse \"klif\" 'cliff'. These may in turn all be from a Romance loanword into Primitive Germanic that has its origins in the Latin forms \"\" (\"slope\" or \"hillside\").\n\nGiven that a cliff does not need to be exactly vertical, there can be ambiguity about whether a given slope is a cliff or not and also about how much of a certain slope to count as a cliff. For example, given a truly vertical rock wall above a very steep slope, one could count just the rock wall or the combination. Listings of cliffs are thus inherently uncertain.\n\nSome of the largest cliffs on Earth are found underwater. For example, an 8,000 m drop over a 4,250 m span can be found at a ridge sitting inside the Kermadec Trench.\n\nOne candidate for highest cliff in the world is Nanga Parbat's Rupal Face, which rises approximately 4,600 m, or 15,000 ft, above its base. According to other sources, the highest cliff in the world, about 1,340 m high, is the east face of Great Trango in the Karakoram mountains of northern Pakistan. This uses a fairly stringent notion of cliff, as the 1,340 m figure refers to a nearly vertical headwall of two stacked pillars; adding in a very steep approach brings the total drop from the East Face precipice to the nearby Dunge Glacier to nearly 2,000 m.\n\nThe location of the world's highest sea cliffs depends also on the definition of 'cliff' that is used. \"Guinness World Records\" states it is Kalaupapa, Hawaii, at 1,010 m high. Another contender is the north face of Mitre Peak, which drops 1,683 m to Milford Sound, New Zealand. These are subject to a less stringent definition, as the average slope of these cliffs at Kaulapapa is about 1.7, corresponding to an angle of 60 degrees, and Mitre Peak is similar. A more vertical drop into the sea can be found at Maujit Qaqarssuasia (also known as the 'Thumbnail') which is situated in the Torssukátak fjord area at the very tip of South Greenland and drops 1,560 m near-vertically.\n\nConsidering a truly vertical drop, Mount Thor on Baffin Island in Arctic Canada is often considered the highest at 1370 m (4500 ft) high in total (the top 480 m (1600 ft) is overhanging), and is said to give it the longest vertical drop on Earth at 1,250 m (4,100 ft). However, other cliffs on Baffin Island, such as Polar Sun Spire in the Sam Ford Fjord, or others in remote areas of Greenland may be higher.\n\nThe highest cliff in the solar system may be Verona Rupes, an approximately high fault scarp on Miranda, a moon of Uranus.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of cliffs of the world.\n\nAbove Sea\n\nAbove Land\n\nAbove Sea\nAbove Land\n\nSeveral big granite faces in the Arctic region vie for the title of 'highest vertical drop on Earth', but reliable measurements are not always available. The possible contenders include (measurements are approximate):\n\n\nOther notable cliffs include:\n\n\nAbove Sea\nAbove Land\n\nAbove Sea\nAbove Land\n\nCliff landforms provide unique habitat niches to a variety of plants and animals, whose preferences and needs are suited by the vertical geometry of this landform type. For example, a number of birds have decided affinities for choosing cliff locations for nesting, often driven by the defensibility of these locations as well as absence of certain predators.\n\n"}
{"id": "9156561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9156561", "title": "Deserto de Viana", "text": "Deserto de Viana\n\nThe Deserto de Viana is a sand desert in the northwestern part of the island of Boa Vista, Cape Verde. It is situated east of the towns Rabil and Sal Rei, and west of Bofarreira. The desert itself is not a protected area, but it is adjacent to the nature reserve \"Boa Esperança\", which includes the Lagoa do Rabil and the Praia de Atalanta.\n\n"}
{"id": "47262543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262543", "title": "Drenčec", "text": "Drenčec\n\nDrenčec is a village in Croatia.\n"}
{"id": "1451418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1451418", "title": "Ecolabel", "text": "Ecolabel\n\nEco-labels and Green Stickers are labeling systems for food and consumer products. Ecolabels are voluntary, but green stickers are mandated by law; for example, in North America major appliances and automobiles use Energy Star. They are a form of sustainability measurement directed at consumers, intended to make it easy to take environmental concerns into account when shopping. Some labels quantify pollution or energy consumption by way of index scores or units of measurement, while others assert compliance with a set of practices or minimum requirements for sustainability or reduction of harm to the environment. Many ecolabels are focused on minimising the negative ecological impacts of primary production or resource extraction in a given sector or commodity through a set of good practices that are captured in a sustainability standard. Through a verification process, usually referred to as \"certification\", a farm, forest, fishery, or mine can show that it complies with a standard and earn the right to sell its products as certified through the supply chain, often resulting in a consumer-facing ecolabel.\n\nThe last few years have seen two key trends in the ecolabels space. There is an explosion in the numbers of different ecolabelling programs across the world and across business sectors and secondly the proliferation of umbrella labeling programs.\n\nEcolabelling systems exist for both food and consumer products. Both systems were started by NGOs, since then the European Union have developed legislation for conduct of ecolabelling and also have created their own ecolabels, one for food and one for consumer products. At least for food, the ecolabel is nearly identical with the common NGO definition of the rules for ecolabelling. Label trust is an issue for consumers because as manufacturers and manufacturing associations have set up \"rubber stamp\" labels to greenwash their products with fake ecolabels. High trust levels can be created when ecolabels apply for Governmental recognition as formal Certification Marks [recognized by logos or names with 'CTM', CM or 'CertTM']. Typically this means schemes approved as a Certification Mark, have had the Government Department responsible declare that the scheme has a standard and certifies that they are 'Competent to Certify'. The highest trust levels would be a government recognized certification mark that was also compliant with key ISO standards especially ISO 14024- Type 1 Ecolabels that undertake ISO 14040 compliant life cycle analysis as part of their assessment.Type I ecolabels are voluntary labels that signify overall environmental preference of a product or services based on life-cycle considerations that address multiple environmental criteria, which are based on transparent standards for environmental preferability, verified by a qualified organization. \n\nThe last few years have seen two key trends in the ecolabels space. There is an explosion in the numbers of different ecolabelling programs across the world and across business sectors and secondly the proliferation of umbrella labeling programs. The International Organization for Standardization ISO has created standards for labeling practices within the ISO 14000 schema. ISO 14020 to 14025 series deals with environmental labels and declarations. ISO proposed three categories of environmental labels according to the aspects covered and the rigor required to award the seal: type I in ISO 14024; type II in ISO 14021; and type III in ISO 14025. Additionally, a different category called “Type I – like” is present in the literature, which represents environmental labels focused on just one environmental or social aspect; these labels have been launched by independent organizations.\n\nThere is a close relationship between the ecolabeling process and the eco-innovation because it promotes the emergence of new green products and it improves the organizations environmental management strategy. Moreover, ecolabeling process is a \"cyclical eco-innovation process in which consumers, firms, governments and institutions interact. Its final purpose is to contribute to the development of sustainable and ecological ways of production and consumption. In this process, consumers’ environmental expectations are met; firms increase their created and captured value and enhance their sustainability, and governments and institutions foster cleaner production and consumption. Finally, this process is tangible in the products through the awarding of ecolabels, which are visibly displayed on goods and services\".\n\nConsumer desires for sustainable consumption is driving the global marketplace with desire to regulate product production. The globalization of economies is shifting control of sustainability away from traditional command and control measures imposed by governments towards market governance which is a self-regulatory new environmental policy instrument, ecolabelling.\n\nThe only ecolabel that takes into consideration legal and infrastructural limitations is\nIt is a certification programme with the intention to increase owner, staff, suppliers and stakeholder’s awareness with the intention to motivate them for an eco-friendly action towards a sustainable holiday and future for all of us in the long run and through which expenses can be minimized.\n\nEco-labeling standardization is a new form of regulation which is voluntary in nature but impose upon large companies market forces in order to harmonize production of goods and services with stronger ecological practices. Recently, it has turned into a new form of non-state authority at both national and international levels. This idea of entrepreneurial democracy based on the success of the ISO 14000 standards on the management of environmental quality and the ISO 9000 standards on quality production control.\nOnce an industry sector decides to get this certification, it has to provide evidence of documented proof of compliance required. In terms of ISO 14042 standard, it is obligatorily for all applicants to respect environmental legislation and related legislation; breaching of any laws may result in licensing suspension.\n\nDuring the UN Earth Summit Conference in 1992, an international consensus was generated to integrate environmental issues into manufacturing procedures. The idea was to manipulate consumption patterns in order to achieve sustainable development. The result of this is as follows.\n\nCurrently in the developed world: Eco-labels and green stickers have evolved to play a vital role. They provide a verifiable link between products and informed consumer wishes. This approach applies market pressure on industries to minimize their environmental impact; this is evidenced by the growth in the population of informed consumers. Marketing strategists are responding with Green Certifications and its abuse, Greenwashing.\n\nCurrently in the developing world: First consumers became concerned about the quality, safety and environmental sustainability of food and supported demand for green foods, then focused on the environmental effects of agriculture and globalization of food production, which led to the exposure of globally controlled food regimes. Consumer advocate groups responded with a call for [Alternative Food Networks]. This gives a new dimension to consumer demands and corporate competitiveness. Australian Consumer Association CHOICE confronted corporate interests with their concerns about growing interests in green consumption, food production, use of pesticides, organic production, and genetic modification, etc...\n\nGreen Stickers on consumer goods have been evolving since the 1970s. The main drivers have been energy and fuel consumption. These stickers first started appearing on major appliances after government agencies in the United States and Canada legislated their requirement. Manufacturers are also required to meet minimum standards of energy use. The automobile industry in North America is required to meet a minimum emissions standard. This led to fuel efficiency labels being placed on new automobiles sold. The major appliance manufacturers were required to use standard testing practices and place clear labels on products. The International Organization for Standardization has developed standards for addressing environmental labelling with the ISO 14000 family which grew out of ISO's commitment to support the objective of sustainable development discussed at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, in Rio de Janeiro, in 1992\n\nGreen Labelling worldwide is moving beyond traditional country borders. Most of these initiatives are voluntary Eco-labels, however, there is an initiative underway in North America to broaden the scope of Green Stickers to include other consumer goods. Although consumers tend to prefer ecolabeled products, recent research show that consumers do not fully understand ecolabels and do not fully trust ecolabels, especially when learning negative environmental consequences of production.\n\nFounded in 1994, the Global Ecolabelling Network (GEN) is an international non-profit network of third party type I ecolabelling organizations focused on encouraging and promoting type I ecolabelling development worldwide. GEN has members represented from more than 50 territories and countries, with a particular focus in Europe and Asia.\nGEN’s mission is to educate and encourage government, industry, and consumers to recognize the unique and important value of Type 1 ecolabelling. More specifically, GEN functions to foster cooperation and information exchange across members and ecolabelling programs, facilities access to information on ecolabelling standards, engages with international organizations to promote ecolabelling, and encourages demand for ecolabelling products through the promotion of sustainable public procurement. GEN supports its members in developing environmental leadership standards and criteria.\n\nCreated in 2002, the International Social and Environmental Accreditation and Labelling Alliance (ISEAL) is a body of sustainability standard organizations set up to advance and develop sustainability standards for products across the globe. Its membership is open to all multi-stakeholder sustainability standards and accreditation bodies that demonstrate their ability to meet the ISEAL Codes of Good Practice and accompanying requirements. Its members are primarily single attribute focused ecolabelling organizations and include the Forest Stewardship Alliance, the Marine Stewardship Council, Fair Trade International, the Rainforest Alliance, and the Alliance for Water Stewardship, among many others. \n\nThe goals of ISEAL Alliance are to improve the impacts of standards, define credibility for sustainability standards, increase the uptake of credible sustainability standards, and improve the effectiveness of standards, including driving innovations in standards.\n\nGovernments of many countries have environmental protection agencies. These agencies are mandated watchdogs of industry and regulate releasing chemical pollution into the environment. Some of them administer labelling standards; other set minimum requirements for manufacturers.\n\nThe Office of Energy Efficiency (OEE) run by the Department of Natural Resources Canada regulates both the automobile and appliance manufacturers.\nEnerGuide label for vehicles found on all new passenger cars, light-duty vans, pickup trucks and special purpose vehicles not exceeding a gross vehicle weight of 3855 kg (8500 lb). The label shows the city and highway fuel consumption ratings and an estimated annual fuel cost for that particular vehicle.\nFederal law in Canada, under Canada's Energy Efficiency Regulations, requires that the EnerGuide label is placed on all new electrical appliances manufactured in or imported into Canada and that the label indicates the amount of electricity used by that appliance. This information is determined by standardized test procedures. A third-party agency verifies that an appliance meets Canada's minimum energy performance levels.\n\nAll major home appliances must meet the Appliance Standards Program set by the US Department of Energy (DOE) on cooperation with the US Federal Trade Commission. Manufacturers must use standard test procedures developed by DOE to prove the energy use and efficiency of their products. Test results are printed on yellow EnergyGuide label, which manufacturers are required to display on many appliances. This label estimates how much energy the appliance uses, compares the energy use of similar products, and lists approximate annual operating costs. Appliances that meet strict energy efficiency criteria set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency are eligible for the blue Energy Star label. The Energy Star label is also available on energy-efficient televisions, computers, audio visual equipment and electronics, office equipment, heating and cooling equipment, and many more products. Energy Star is also available on energy efficient homes and buildings in the United States. American automobile manufacturers are required to use certified U.S. Environmental Protection Agency fuel economy test results and cannot use any other fuel mileage results to advertise vehicle fuel efficiency. The state of California has green sticker license plates issued to OHVs is introducing green stickers for all new automobiles in 2009. The Australian based US registered Certification Mark Global GreenTag, also operates its service in the USA since 2018.\n\nThe EU Ecolabel was established in 1992 by the European Commission. The EU Ecolabel helps to identify products and services that have a reduced environmental impact throughout their life cycle. Recognized throughout Europe, EU Ecolabel is a voluntary label promoting environmental excellence which can be trusted. It is the only pan-European Type I official ecolabel. The EU Ecolabel is awarded according to ecological criteria agreed on by experts, industry, consumer organizations and NGOs and verified by independent third parties. The implementation of the EU Ecolabel is set through the Regulation (EC) No 66/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.\n\nThe Nordic swan is the official ecolabel in Nordic countries. It uses a system of standards, applications for licenses, and independent verification.\n\nIn Asia ASEAN is moving towards adopting the ISO's TC 207 environmental management system. Anyone can contribute verifiable sources substantiating its adoption and implementation by member countries as this information is not easily accessible. The Australian Certification Mark Global GreenTag, is also formally recognised in several ASEAN countries.\n\nA number of ecolabels operate in Australia and New Zealand mostly as separate schemes operating in one country only. Global GreenTag operates internationally and is recognized in both countries as is GECA whereas GECNZ operates only within NZ. All 3 ecolabels are ISO 14024 compliant. GreenTag is also an Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) approved Certification Mark.\n\nThere are a plethora of sustainable seafood ecolabels, many conservationists feel that the increasing number of labels is further confusing consumers in regard to what seafood is sustainable. As of 2010, ecolabels that can be found on seafood include Marine Stewardship Council, Friend of the Sea, KRAV (Sweden), Naturland (Germany), Thai Quality Shrimp, Global Aquaculture Alliance's Best Aquaculture Practices standard, Label Rouge (France), among still others, and the Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) is in development. Seafood is also labeled \"organic\" but USDA standards for organic seafood are still in development.\n\nThere are a variety of dolphin safe labels, asserting that tuna is caught in a manner that does not harm dolphins.\n\nMany consumer appliances have labels indicating whether or not they are energy efficient compared to similar products. Common labels include yellow EnergyGuide tags found in North America as part of the Energy Star program, European Union energy labels, and the Energy Saving Trust Recommended logo administrated by the Energy Saving Trust in the United Kingdom. These labels document how much energy an appliance consumes while being used; energy input labeling documents how much energy was used to \"manufacture\" the product, an additional consideration in the full life cycle energy use of product.\n\nCarbon emission labels are an alternative methodology for certification, examining impact on greenhouse gas emissions rather than direct energy use.\n\n\n\n\nNon-Government Links\n"}
{"id": "26473728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26473728", "title": "Environmental Ethics (journal)", "text": "Environmental Ethics (journal)\n\nEnvironmental Ethics is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the study of philosophical aspects of environmental problems. It was established in 1979. The editor-in-chief is Eugene Hargrove and it is published by the Center for Environmental Philosophy (University of North Texas). All issues are available online from the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\n\"Environmental Ethics\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.283, ranking it 46th out of 51 journals in the category \"Ethics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49937848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49937848", "title": "GIS United", "text": "GIS United\n\nGIS United (GU / GIS Utd) is union of GIS specialists who have variety of backgrounds such as business administration, public administration, environmental engineering, mechanical engineering, statistics, urban engineering, architecture, historical studies, literature, art etc. As a consulting firm to analyze Geo-spatial Big Data specializes headquartered in Mapo Seogyo, Seoul, South Korea.\n\nGIS United are committed to enabling clients to answer complex questions in a wide variety of domains: Business Management & Marketing Strategy, Real Estate Property Analysis, Sustainable Growth and Economic Development, Urban Revitalization, Public Policy, Cultural Resources Management, Election & Politic Issues and Media & Journalism, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11797991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11797991", "title": "Hacksjön", "text": "Hacksjön\n\nHacksjön is a small lake located east of the former airport at Tullinge, in the municipality Botkyrka in southern Stockholm, Sweden. It forms the westernmost lake of one of the branches of the Tyresån lake system and is located within the Lida-Riksten Open-air Area.\n\nWith its isolated location surrounded by moorlands and forests, the lake remains relatively unaffected by human activities, which is mostly limited to precipitation and incoming nutrients from local soil. The lake is used for wireless radio-controlled boats in summers and for ice racing in winters, which have reduced the previously prominent bird life by the lake. Notwithstanding, it is classified as of considerable importance for nature conservation.\n\nThe lake is located in a marshy moorland surrounded by forests. West of it is a former military airport today used for motocross and a shooting range.\n\nThe shallow lake is moderately rich in nutrients and virtually unaffected by pollution. Additionally, it is rich in humus which gives the water its dark brown colour. With a pH of 7,3, the lake is unlikely to acidified.\n\nAquatic plants thriving in the shallow lake include bladderwort, common club-rush, and water lilies. The quagmire bordering the lake, dominated by peat moss and reed, also include sedges, marsh willowherb, common marsh bedstraw, mare's tail, gypsywort, bog-myrtle, white water-lily, milk parsley, broad-leaved pondweed, marsh cinquefoil, grey sallow, common club-rush, bur-reed, narrow leaf cattail, and broadleaf cattail.\n\nOpen-air and motor sport activities have driven away a range of birds species once abundant by the lake, including the colony of black-headed gulls which once dominated it, other common species such as pochard, common teal, mute swan, Eurasian coot, and more rare visitors such as osprey and black-throated diver.\n\nFry of smooth newt was reported in 2000, the only amphibian reported by the lake. An inventory of damselflies in 1997 resulted in a list of emerald damselfly, red-eyed damselfly, variable damselfly, southern hawker, brilliant emerald, four-spotted chaser, eastern white-faced darter, and black darter. A second inventory in 2000 produced the following list interpreted as a normal amount of species: common hawker, brown hawker, Irish damselfly, variable damselfly, downy emerald, red-eyed damselfly, northern white-faced darter, brilliant emerald, and black darter.\n\n"}
{"id": "381399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381399", "title": "Hydroelectricity", "text": "Hydroelectricity\n\nHydroelectricity is electricity produced from hydropower. In 2015, hydropower generated 16.6% of the world's total electricity and 70% of all renewable electricity, and was expected to increase about 3.1% each year for the next 25 years.\n\nHydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generating 33 percent of global hydropower in 2013. China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 920 TWh of production in 2013, representing 16.9 percent of domestic electricity use.\n\nThe cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, making it a competitive source of renewable electricity. The hydro station consumes no water, unlike coal or gas plants. The average cost of electricity from a hydro station larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour. With a dam and reservoir it is also a flexible source of electricity since the amount produced by the station can be changed up or down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands. Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, and in many cases, has a considerably lower output level of greenhouse gases than fossil fuel powered energy plants.\n\nHydropower has been used since ancient times to grind flour and perform other tasks. In the mid-1770s, French engineer Bernard Forest de Bélidor published \"Architecture Hydraulique\" which described vertical- and horizontal-axis hydraulic machines. By the late 19th century, the electrical generator was developed and could now be coupled with hydraulics. The growing demand for the Industrial Revolution would drive development as well. In 1878 the world's first hydroelectric power scheme was developed at Cragside in Northumberland, England by William Armstrong. It was used to power a single arc lamp in his art gallery. The old Schoelkopf Power Station No. 1 near Niagara Falls in the U.S. side began to produce electricity in 1881. The first Edison hydroelectric power station, the Vulcan Street Plant, began operating September 30, 1882, in Appleton, Wisconsin, with an output of about 12.5 kilowatts. By 1886 there were 45 hydroelectric power stations in the U.S. and Canada. By 1889 there were 200 in the U.S. alone.\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, many small hydroelectric power stations were being constructed by commercial companies in mountains near metropolitan areas. Grenoble, France held the International Exhibition of Hydropower and Tourism with over one million visitors. By 1920 as 40% of the power produced in the United States was hydroelectric, the Federal Power Act was enacted into law. The Act created the Federal Power Commission to regulate hydroelectric power stations on federal land and water. As the power stations became larger, their associated dams developed additional purposes to include flood control, irrigation and navigation. Federal funding became necessary for large-scale development and federally owned corporations, such as the Tennessee Valley Authority (1933) and the Bonneville Power Administration (1937) were created. Additionally, the Bureau of Reclamation which had begun a series of western U.S. irrigation projects in the early 20th century was now constructing large hydroelectric projects such as the 1928 Hoover Dam. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was also involved in hydroelectric development, completing the Bonneville Dam in 1937 and being recognized by the Flood Control Act of 1936 as the premier federal flood control agency.\n\nHydroelectric power stations continued to become larger throughout the 20th century. Hydropower was referred to as \"white coal\" for its power and plenty. Hoover Dam's initial 1,345 MW power station was the world's largest hydroelectric power station in 1936; it was eclipsed by the 6809 MW Grand Coulee Dam in 1942. The Itaipu Dam opened in 1984 in South America as the largest, producing 14,000 MW but was surpassed in 2008 by the Three Gorges Dam in China at 22,500 MW. Hydroelectricity would eventually supply some countries, including Norway, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Paraguay and Brazil, with over 85% of their electricity. The United States currently has over 2,000 hydroelectric power stations that supply 6.4% of its total electrical production output, which is 49% of its renewable electricity.\n\nThe technical potential for the growth of hydropower around the world are, 71% Europe, 75% North America, 79% South America, 95% Africa, 95% Middle East, 82% Asia Pacific. \nThe political realities of new reservoirs in western countries, economic limitations in the third world and the lack of a transmission system in undeveloped areas, result in the possibility of developing 25% of the remaining potential before 2050, with the bulk of that being in the Asia Pacific area. A few countries are highly developed and have very little room for growth, Switzerland 12% and Mexico 20%.\n\nMost hydroelectric power comes from the potential energy of dammed water driving a water turbine and generator. The power extracted from the water depends on the volume and on the difference in height between the source and the water's outflow. This height difference is called the head. A large pipe (the \"penstock\") delivers water from the reservoir to the turbine.\n\nThis method produces electricity to supply high peak demands by moving water between reservoirs at different elevations. At times of low electrical demand, the excess generation capacity is used to pump water into the higher reservoir. When the demand becomes greater, water is released back into the lower reservoir through a turbine. Pumped-storage schemes currently provide the most commercially important means of large-scale grid energy storage and improve the daily capacity factor of the generation system. Pumped storage is not an energy source, and appears as a negative number in listings.\n\nRun-of-the-river hydroelectric stations are those with small or no reservoir capacity, so that only the water coming from upstream is available for generation at that moment, and any oversupply must pass unused. A constant supply of water from a lake or existing reservoir upstream is a significant advantage in choosing sites for run-of-the-river. In the United States, run of the river hydropower could potentially provide (about 13.7% of total use in 2011 if continuously available).\n\nA tidal power station makes use of the daily rise and fall of ocean water due to tides; such sources are highly predictable, and if conditions permit construction of reservoirs, can also be dispatchable to generate power during high demand periods. Less common types of hydro schemes use water's kinetic energy or undammed sources such as undershot water wheels. Tidal power is viable in a relatively small number of locations around the world. In Great Britain, there are eight sites that could be developed, which \nhave the potential to generate 20% of the electricity used in 2012.\n\nLarge-scale hydroelectric power stations are more commonly seen as the largest power producing facilities in the world, with some hydroelectric facilities capable of generating more than double the installed capacities of the current largest nuclear power stations.\n\nAlthough no official definition exists for the capacity range of large hydroelectric power stations, facilities from over a few hundred megawatts are generally considered large hydroelectric facilities.\n\nCurrently, only four facilities over () are in operation worldwide, see table below.\n\nSmall hydro is the development of hydroelectric power on a scale serving a small community or industrial plant. The definition of a small hydro project varies but a generating capacity of up to 10 megawatts (MW) is generally accepted as the upper limit of what can be termed small hydro. This may be stretched to 25 MW and 30 MW in Canada and the United States. Small-scale hydroelectricity production grew by 29% from 2005 to 2008, raising the total world small-hydro capacity to . Over 70% of this was in China (), followed by Japan (), the United States (), and India ().\n\nSmall hydro stations may be connected to conventional electrical distribution networks as a source of low-cost renewable energy. Alternatively, small hydro projects may be built in isolated areas that would be uneconomic to serve from a network, or in areas where there is no national electrical distribution network. Since small hydro projects usually have minimal reservoirs and civil construction work, they are seen as having a relatively low environmental impact compared to large hydro. This decreased environmental impact depends strongly on the balance between stream flow and power production.\n\nMicro hydro is a term used for hydroelectric power installations that typically produce up to of power. These installations can provide power to an isolated home or small community, or are sometimes connected to electric power networks. There are many of these installations around the world, particularly in developing nations as they can provide an economical source of energy without purchase of fuel. Micro hydro systems complement photovoltaic solar energy systems because in many areas, water flow, and thus available hydro power, is highest in the winter when solar energy is at a minimum.\n\nPico hydro is a term used for hydroelectric power generation of under . It is useful in small, remote communities that require only a small amount of electricity. For example, to power one or two fluorescent light bulbs and a TV or radio for a few homes. Even smaller turbines of 200-300W may power a single home in a developing country with a drop of only . A Pico-hydro setup is typically run-of-the-river, meaning that dams are not used, but rather pipes divert some of the flow, drop this down a gradient, and through the turbine before returning it to the stream.\n\nAn underground power station is generally used at large facilities and makes use of a large natural height difference between two waterways, such as a waterfall or mountain lake. An underground tunnel is constructed to take water from the high reservoir to the generating hall built in an underground cavern near the lowest point of the water tunnel and a horizontal tailrace taking water away to the lower outlet waterway.\n\nA simple formula for approximating electric power production at a hydroelectric station is: formula_1, where\n\nAnnual electric energy production depends on the available water supply. In some installations, the water flow rate can vary by a factor of 10:1 over the course of a year.\n\nHydropower is a flexible source of electricity since stations can be ramped up and down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands. Hydro turbines have a start-up time of the order of a few minutes. It takes around 60 to 90 seconds to bring a unit from cold start-up to full load; this is much shorter than for gas turbines or steam plants. Power generation can also be decreased quickly when there is a surplus power generation. Hence the limited capacity of hydropower units is not generally used to produce base power except for vacating the flood pool or meeting downstream needs. Instead, it serves as backup for non-hydro generators.\n\nThe major advantage of conventional hydroelectric dams with reservoirs is their ability to store water at low cost for dispatch later as high value clean electricity. The average cost of electricity from a hydro station larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour. When used as peak power to meet demand, hydroelectricity has a higher value than base power and a much higher value compared to intermittent energy sources.\n\nHydroelectric stations have long economic lives, with some plants still in service after 50–100 years. Operating labor cost is also usually low, as plants are automated and have few personnel on site during normal operation.\n\nWhere a dam serves multiple purposes, a hydroelectric station may be added with relatively low construction cost, providing a useful revenue stream to offset the costs of dam operation. It has been calculated that the sale of electricity from the Three Gorges Dam will cover the construction costs after 5 to 8 years of full generation. Additionally, some data shows that in most countries large hydropower dams will be too costly and take too long to build to deliver a positive risk adjusted return, unless appropriate risk management measures are put in place.\n\nWhile many hydroelectric projects supply public electricity networks, some are created to serve specific industrial enterprises. Dedicated hydroelectric projects are often built to provide the substantial amounts of electricity needed for aluminium electrolytic plants, for example. The Grand Coulee Dam switched to support Alcoa aluminium in Bellingham, Washington, United States for American World War II airplanes before it was allowed to provide irrigation and power to citizens (in addition to aluminium power) after the war. In Suriname, the Brokopondo Reservoir was constructed to provide electricity for the Alcoa aluminium industry. New Zealand's Manapouri Power Station was constructed to supply electricity to the aluminium smelter at Tiwai Point.\n\nSince hydroelectric dams do not use fuel, power generation does not produce carbon dioxide. While carbon dioxide is initially produced during construction of the project, and some methane is given off annually by reservoirs, hydro in specific nordic cases, has the lowest lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions for power generation. Compared to fossil fuels generating an equivalent amount of electricity, hydro displaced three billion tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2011. One measurement of greenhouse gas related and other externality comparison between energy sources can be found in the ExternE project by the Paul Scherrer Institute and the University of Stuttgart which was funded by the European Commission. According to that study, hydroelectricity in Europe produces the least amount of greenhouse gases and externality of any energy source. Coming in second place was wind, third was nuclear energy, and fourth was solar photovoltaic. The low greenhouse gas impact of hydroelectricity is found especially in temperate climates. The above study was for local energy in Europe; presumably similar conditions prevail in North America and Northern Asia, which all see a regular, natural freeze/thaw cycle (with associated seasonal plant decay and regrowth). Greater greenhouse gas emission impacts are found in the tropical regions because the reservoirs of power stations in tropical regions produce a larger amount of methane than those in temperate areas.\n\nReservoirs created by hydroelectric schemes often provide facilities for water sports, and become tourist attractions themselves. In some countries, aquaculture in reservoirs is common. Multi-use dams installed for irrigation support agriculture with a relatively constant water supply. Large hydro dams can control floods, which would otherwise affect people living downstream of the project.\n\nLarge reservoirs associated with traditional hydroelectric power stations result in submersion of extensive areas upstream of the dams, sometimes destroying biologically rich and productive lowland and riverine valley forests, marshland and grasslands. Damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local ecosystems, and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife. The loss of land is often exacerbated by habitat fragmentation of surrounding areas caused by the reservoir.\n\nHydroelectric projects can be disruptive to surrounding aquatic ecosystems both upstream and downstream of the plant site. Generation of hydroelectric power changes the downstream river environment. Water exiting a turbine usually contains very little suspended sediment, which can lead to scouring of river beds and loss of riverbanks. Since turbine gates are often opened intermittently, rapid or even daily fluctuations in river flow are observed.\n\nA 2011 study by the United States National Renewable Energy Laboratory concluded that hydroelectric plants in the U.S. consumed between 1,425 and 18,000 gallons of water per megawatt-hour (gal/MWh) of electricity generated, through evaporation losses in the reservoir. The median loss was 4,491 gal/MWh, which is higher than the loss for generation technologies that use cooling towers, including concentrating solar power (865 gal/MWh for CSP trough, 786 gal/MWh for CSP tower), coal (687 gal/MWh), nuclear (672 gal/MWh), and natural gas (198 gal/MWh). Where there are multiple uses of reservoirs such as water supply, recreation, and flood control, all reservoir evaporation is attributed to power production.\n\nWhen water flows it has the ability to transport particles heavier than itself downstream. This has a negative effect on dams and subsequently their power stations, particularly those on rivers or within catchment areas with high siltation. Siltation can fill a reservoir and reduce its capacity to control floods along with causing additional horizontal pressure on the upstream portion of the dam. Eventually, some reservoirs can become full of sediment and useless or over-top during a flood and fail.\n\nChanges in the amount of river flow will correlate with the amount of energy produced by a dam. Lower river flows will reduce the amount of live storage in a reservoir therefore reducing the amount of water that can be used for hydroelectricity. The result of diminished river flow can be power shortages in areas that depend heavily on hydroelectric power. The risk of flow shortage may increase as a result of climate change. One study from the Colorado River in the United States suggest that modest climate changes, such as an increase in temperature in 2 degree Celsius resulting in a 10% decline in precipitation, might reduce river run-off by up to 40%. Brazil in particular is vulnerable due to its heavy reliance on hydroelectricity, as increasing temperatures, lower water ﬂow and alterations in the rainfall regime, could reduce total energy production by 7% annually by the end of the century.\n\nLower positive impacts are found in the tropical regions, as it has been noted that the reservoirs of power plants in tropical regions produce substantial amounts of methane. This is due to plant material in flooded areas decaying in an anaerobic environment, and forming methane, a greenhouse gas. According to the World Commission on Dams report, where the reservoir is large compared to the generating capacity (less than 100 watts per square metre of surface area) and no clearing of the forests in the area was undertaken prior to impoundment of the reservoir, greenhouse gas emissions from the reservoir may be higher than those of a conventional oil-fired thermal generation plant.\n\nIn boreal reservoirs of Canada and Northern Europe, however, greenhouse gas emissions are typically only 2% to 8% of any kind of conventional fossil-fuel thermal generation. A new class of underwater logging operation that targets drowned forests can mitigate the effect of forest decay.\n\nAnother disadvantage of hydroelectric dams is the need to relocate the people living where the reservoirs are planned. In 2000, the World Commission on Dams estimated that dams had physically displaced 40-80 million people worldwide.\n\nBecause large conventional dammed-hydro facilities hold back large volumes of water, a failure due to poor construction, natural disasters or sabotage can be catastrophic to downriver settlements and infrastructure.\n\nDuring Typhoon Nina in 1975 Banqiao Dam failed in Southern China when more than a year's worth of rain fell within 24 hours. The resulting flood resulted in the deaths of 26,000 people, and another 145,000 from epidemics. Millions were left homeless.\n\nThe creation of a dam in a geologically inappropriate location may cause disasters such as 1963 disaster at Vajont Dam in Italy, where almost 2,000 people died.\n\nThe Malpasset Dam failure in Fréjus on the French Riviera (Côte d'Azur), southern France, collapsed on December 2, 1959, killing 423 people in the resulting flood.\n\nSmaller dams and micro hydro facilities create less risk, but can form continuing hazards even after being decommissioned. For example, the small earthen embankment Kelly Barnes Dam failed in 1977, twenty years after its power station was decommissioned; causing 39 deaths.\n\nHydroelectricity eliminates the flue gas emissions from fossil fuel combustion, including pollutants such as sulfur dioxide, nitric oxide, carbon monoxide, dust, and mercury in the coal. Hydroelectricity also avoids the hazards of coal mining and the indirect health effects of coal emissions.\n\nCompared to nuclear power, hydroelectricity construction requires altering large areas of the environment while a nuclear power station has a small footprint, and hydro-powerstation failures have caused tens of thousands of more deaths than any nuclear station failure. The creation of Garrison Dam, for example, required Native American land to create Lake Sakakawea, which has a shoreline of 1,320 miles, and caused the inhabitants to sell 94% of their arable land for $7.5 million in 1949.\n\nHowever, nuclear power is relatively inflexible; although nuclear power can reduce its output reasonably quickly. Since the cost of nuclear power is dominated by its high infrastructure costs, the cost per unit energy goes up significantly with low production. Because of this, nuclear power is mostly used for baseload. By way of contrast, hydroelectricity can supply peak power at much lower cost. Hydroelectricity is thus often used to complement nuclear or other sources for load following. Country examples were they are paired in a close to 50/50 share include the electric grid in Switzerland, the Electricity sector in Sweden and to a lesser extent, Ukraine and the Electricity sector in Finland.\n\nWind power goes through predictable variation by season, but is intermittent on a daily basis. Maximum wind generation has little relationship to peak daily electricity consumption, the wind may peak at night when power isn't needed or be still during the day when electrical demand is highest. Occasionally weather patterns can result in low wind for days or weeks at a time, a hydroelectric reservoir capable of storing weeks of output is useful to balance generation on the grid. Peak wind power can be offset by minimum hydropower and minimum wind can be offset with maximum hydropower. In this way the easily regulated character of hydroelectricity is used to compensate for the intermittent nature of wind power. Conversely, in some cases wind power can be used to spare water for later use in dry seasons.\n\nIn areas that do not have hydropower, pumped storage serves a similar role, but at a much higher cost and 20% lower efficiency. An example of this is Norway's trading with Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and possibly Germany or the UK in the future. Norway is 98% hydropower, while it's flatland neighbors are installing wind power.\n\nThe ranking of hydro-electric capacity is either by actual annual energy production or by installed capacity power rating. In 2015 hydropower generated 16.6% of the worlds total electricity and 70% of all renewable electricity.\nHydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generated 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010. China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use. Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Austria, Switzerland, and Venezuela have a majority of the internal electric energy production from hydroelectric power. Paraguay produces 100% of its electricity from hydroelectric dams, and exports 90% of its production to Brazil and to Argentina. Norway produces 98–99% of its electricity from hydroelectric sources.\n\nA hydro-electric station rarely operates at its full power rating over a full year; the ratio between annual average power and installed capacity rating is the capacity factor. The installed capacity is the sum of all generator nameplate power ratings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28916228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28916228", "title": "Igbo people in Jamaica", "text": "Igbo people in Jamaica\n\nIgbo people in Jamaica were shipped by Europeans onto the island between the 18th and 19th centuries as enslaved and indentured labour on plantations. Igbo people constituted a large portion of the African population enslaved people in Jamaica. Some slave censuses detailed the large number of enslaved Igbo people on various plantations throughout the island on different dates throughout the 18th century. Their presence was a large part in forming Jamaican culture, Igbo cultural influence remains in language, dance, music, folklore, cuisine, religion and mannerisms. In Jamaica the Igbo were often referred to as Eboe or Ibo. There are a substantial number of Igbo languge loanwords in Jamaican Patois, however the majority of African loanwords in Jamaican Patois are from the Akan language of modern-day Ghana. Igbo people mostly populated the northwestern section of the island. \n\nOriginating primarily from what was known as the Bight of Biafra on the West African coast, Igbo people were taken in relatively high numbers to Jamaica as a result of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, beginning around 1750. The primary ports from which the majority of these enslaved people were taken from were Bonny and Calabar, two port towns that are now in south-eastern Nigeria. The slave ships arriving from Bristol and Liverpool delivered the slaves to British colonies including Jamaica. The bulk of enslaved Igbo people arrived relatively late, between 1790 and 1807, when the British passed the Abolition of the Slave Trade Act which outlawed the slave trade in the British Empire. Jamaica, after Virginia, was the second most common disembarkation point for slave ships arriving from the Bight of Biafra.\n\nIgbo people were spread on plantations on the island's northwestern side, specifically the areas around Montego Bay and St. Ann's Bay, and consequently, their influence was concentrated there. The region also witnessed a number of revolts that were attributed to people of Igbo origin. Slave owner Matthew Lewis spent time in Jamaica between 1815 and 1817 and studied the way his slaves organised themselves by ethnicity and he noted, for example, that at one time when he \"went down to the negro-houses to hear the whole body of Eboes lodge a complaint against one of the book-keepers\". \n\nOlaudah Equiano, a prominent member of the movement for the abolition of the slave trade, was an African-born Igbo ex-slave. On one of his journeys to the Americas as a free man, as documented in his 1789 journal, Equiano was hired by a Dr. Charles Irving to recruit slaves for his 1776 Mosquito Shore scheme in Jamaica, for which Equiano hired Igbo slaves, whom he called \"My own countrymen\". Equiano was especially useful to Irving for his knowledge of the Igbo language, using Equiano as a tool to maintain social order among his Igbo slaves in Jamaica.\n\nIgbo slaves were known, many a times, to have resorted to resistance rather than revolt and maintained \"unwritten rules of the plantation\" of which the plantation owners were forced to abide by. Igbo culture influenced Jamaican spirituality with the introduction of Obeah folk magic; accounts of \"Eboe\" slaves being \"obeahed\" by each other have been documented by plantation owners. However, it is more likely that the word \"Obeah\" was also used by enslaved Akan people, before Igbos arrived in Jamaica. Other Igbo cultural influences include the Jonkonnu festivals, Igbo words such as \"unu\", \"una\", idioms, and proverbs in Jamaican patois. In Maroon music were songs derived from specific African ethnic groups, among these were songs called \"Ibo\" that had a distinct style. Igbo people were hardly reported to have been Maroons.\n\nEnslaved Igbo people were known to have committed mass suicides, not only for rebellion, but in the belief their spirits will return to their motherland. In a publication of a 1791 issue of \"Massachusetts Magazine\", an anti-slavery poem was published called \"Monimba\", which depicted a fictional pregnant enslaved Igbo woman who committed suicide on a slave ship bound for Jamaica. The poem is an example of the stereotype of enslaved Igbo people in the Americas. Igbo slaves were also distinguished physically by a prevalence of \"yellowish\" skin tones prompting the colloquialisms \"red eboe\" used to describe people with light skin tones and African features. Enslaved Igbo women were paired with enslaved Coromantee (Akan) men by slave owners so as to subdue the latter due to the belief that Igbo women were bound to their first-born sons' birthplace. \n\nArchibald Monteith, whose birth name was Aneaso, was an enslaved Igbo man taken to Jamaica after being tricked by an African slave trader. Anaeso wrote a journal about his life, from when he was kidnapped from Igboland to when he became a Christian convert.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery in Jamaica in the 1830s, Igbo people also arrived on the island as indentured servants between the years of 1840 and 1864 along with a majority Kongo and \"Nago\" (Yoruba) people. Since the 19th century most of the population African Jamaicans had assimilated into the wider Jamaican society and have largely dropped ethnic associations with Africa.\n\nEnslaved Igbo people, along with \"Angolas\" and \"Congoes\" were often runaways, liberating themselves from enslavement. In slave runaway advertisements held in Jamaica workhouses in 1803 out of 1046 Africans recorded, 284 were described as \"Eboes and Mocoes\", 185 \"Congoes\", 259 \"Angolas\", 101 \"Mandingoes\", 70 Coromantees, 60 \"Chamba\" of Sierra Leone, 57 \"Nagoes and Pawpaws\" and 30 \"scattering\". 187 were documentined as \"unclassified\" and 488 were \"American born negroes and mulattoes\".\n\nSome notable slave rebellions involving Igbo people include:\n\n\n\nAmong Igbo cultural items in Jamaica were the Eboe, or Ibo drums popular throughout all of Jamaican music. Food was also influenced, for example the Igbo word \"mba\" meaning \"yam root\" was used to describe a type of yam in Jamaica called \"himba\". Igbo and Akan slaves affected drinking culture among the black population in Jamaica, using alcohol in ritual and libation. In Igboland as well as on the Gold Coast, palm wine was used on these occasions and had to be substituted by rum in Jamaica because of the absence of palm wine. Jonkonnu, a parade that is held in many West Indian nations, has been attributed to the Njoku Ji \"yam-spirit cult\", Okonko and Ekpe of the Igbo. Several masquerades of the Kalabari and Igbo have similar appearance to those of Jonkonnu masquerades.\n\nMuch of Jamaican mannerisms and gestures themselves have a wider African origin, rather than specific Igbo origin. Some examples are non-verbal actions such as \"sucking-teeth\" known in Igbo as \"ima osu\" or \"imu oso\" and \"cutting-eye\" known in Igbo as \"iro anya\", and other non-verbal communications by eye movements.\n\nThere are a few Igbo words in Jamaican Patois that resulted when slaves were restricted from speaking their own languages. These Igbo words still exist in Jamaican vernacular, including words such as \"unu\" meaning \"you (plural)\", \"di\" meaning \"to be (in state of)\", which became \"de\", and \"Okwuru\" \"Okra\" a vegetable.\n\nSome words of Igbo origin are\nIdiom such as, via Gullah \"big eye\" from Igbo \"anya ukwu\" meaning \"greedy\";\n\n\"Ilu\" in Igbo means proverbs, a part of language that is very important to the Igbo. Igbo proverbs crossed the Atlantic along with the masses of enslaved Igbo people. Several translated Igbo proverbs survive in Jamaica today because of the Igbo ancestors. Some of these include:\n\n\"Obeah\" refers to folk magic and sorcery that was derived from West African sources. The W. E. B. Du Bois Institute database supports obeah being traced to the \"dibia\" or \"\"obia\" meaning \"doctoring\"\" traditions of the Igbo people. Specialists in \"Obia\" (also spelled \"Obea\") were known as \"Dibia\" (doctor, psychic) practiced similarly as the obeah men and women of the Caribbean, like predicting the future and manufacturing charms. In Jamaican mythology, \"River Mumma\", a mermaid, is linked to \"Oya\" of the Yoruba and \"Uhamiri/Idemili\" of the Igbo.\n\nAmong Igbo beliefs in Jamaica was the idea of Africans being able to fly back home to Africa. There were reports by Europeans who visited and lived in Jamaica that Igbo slaves believed they would return to their country after death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22912834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22912834", "title": "International Association for Engineering Geology and the Environment", "text": "International Association for Engineering Geology and the Environment\n\nThe International Association for Engineering Geology and the Environment (), formerly International Association for Engineering Geology, also known as IAEG (), is an international scientific society which was founded in 1964. It is affiliated with the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS) and has 3,798 members and 59 national groups all over the world.\n\nThe association aims to promote and encourage the advancement of engineering geology through technological activities and research. At the same time it strives to improve teaching and training in engineering geology, and to collect, evaluate and disseminate the results of engineering geological activities. Together with Springer Science+Business Media, it publishes the \"Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment\".\n\nThe first president of the IAEG was Asher Shadmon, who held the office from 1964 to 1968. The current president is Scott F. Burns from Portland State University.\n\nEvery two years, the IAEG awards the \"Hans Cloos\" medal to an engineering geologist of outstanding merit. Every four years, the IAEG organizes an international congress, during which a general meeting of the association takes place and the board for the subsequent four years is also elected. The \"XII IAEG Congress\" was held in Turin (Italy) in September 2014. The \"XIII IAEG Congress\" will be held in San Francisco (California, USA), in September 2018, and will also serve as the 61st annual meeting of the Association of Environmental & Engineering Geologists.\n\nDuring the XXII International Geological Congress (IGS) in New Delhi, on 12 December 1964, the Israeli geologist Asher Shadmon remarked that \"quarry materials and mineral products used in engineering\" were not being discussed and proposed that the IUGS should create and fund an international permanent commission dedicated to that topic. Other geologists at the congress suggested that the commission should cover also the relationship between the materials in their natural place and the work of engineers.\n\nOn 17 December the assembly voted the following motion unanimously: \"\"It is recommended that a distinct Commission of \"Engineering Geology\" should be established in the context of International Geological Congresses.[…] The objective of the Commission and its Sub-commissions would be to promote the knowledge and dissemination of appropriate information, gather ´case-histories´, prepare literature reviews and relevant catalogues, provide information on completed or ongoing research, gather statistical geological data on the industries and determine the list of further research required\"\".\n\nOn 19 December, although the interest in engineering geology was high, due to scarcity of resources that did not allow to support a new permanent commission, the executive committee of the IUGS proposed to create a small committee, headed by Shadmon, in charge of producing and presenting a report on the state of the situation by contacting the International Society for Soil Mechanics and the International Society for Rock Mechanics, as well as existing national societies of engineering geology.\n\nHowever on 21 December the delegates decided to immediately hold a new session during which the \"International Association for Engineering Geology\" (IAEG) was unanimously created. Besides Asher Shadmon, the founding members were Marcel Arnould (France), G. Bain (USA), M.S. Balasundaram (India), L.M.C. Calembert (Belgium), R.S. Chaturvedi (India), G.C. Chowdhary (India), E. Beneo (Italy), K. Erguvanli (Turkey), A. Hamza (India), M.S. Jain (India), L.E. Kent (South Africa), V.S. Krishnaswamy (India), J.D.S. Lakshmaman (France), A.R. Mahendra (India), M. Manfredi (Italy), V. Prasad (India), B. Ramchandran (India), J.Th. Rosenqvist (Norway), B. Sanatkumar (India), P.B. Srinivasan (India), L.S. Srivastava (India) and M. Zapata (Spain). They elected a provisional committee to steer the initial activity.\n\nAt the beginning, the association worked on enhancing the provisional committee to gain full international representation. By the end of 1966, the committee was composed as follows: Asher Shadmon (Israel), as President; Marcel Arnould (France), as Secretary; E. Beneo (Italy); V.S. Krishnaswamy, R.S. Mithal and M.S. Balasundaram (India); K. Erguvanli (Turkey); A.M. Hull (USA), president of the American Association of Engineering Geologist; E.M. Sergeev and N.V. Kolomenskij (USSR); Quido Záruba (Czechoslovakia); M.D. Ruiz (Brazil); G. Champetier de Ribes (France), as Treasurer. Discussions to join the IAEG were still ongoing with representatives of Australia, Japan and Mexico.\n\nDuring the first two years the first statutes were established and a programme of the activities was defined. The purposes and goals of the association were defined as follows: \"\"Article 1: The scope of engineering geology covers the applications of earth sciences to engineering, planning, construction, prospecting, testing and processing of related materials\"; \"Article 2: The aims of the IAEG are to encourage\" \"research, training and dissemination of knowledge by developing the international cooperation in its relation to engineering\".\"\n\nAt the 1967 meeting of the IUGS, a request of affiliation of the IAEG to the IUGS was presented and accepted by the executive committee. The decision was ratified unanimously by the general assembly of the IUGS on 23 August 1968 in Prague.\n\nThe input from the Czechoslovakian engineering geologist has been noticeable in the first years, especially that of Quido Záruba and Jaroslav Pasek. They were together responsible for organizing a section on engineering geology at the XXIII International Geological Congress (IGC) in Prague in 1968, at which they shared the aims of the IAEG. They also organised the first scientific symposium of the IAEG in Brno (Czechoslovakia), from 26 to 27 April 1968 and a second symposium during the IGC on \"Engineering geology and land planning\".\n\nThe first general assembly was held on 23 August 1968 in Prague during the XXIII IGC. At the time of the congress, the country was deeply affected by the movement of soviet troops. Nevertheless, the general assembly went ahead and the statutes were ratified and an executive committee was elected for a period of four years to replace the provisional committee.\n\nThe new committee was composed as follows: Quido Záruba (Czechoslovakia), President; Marcel Arnould (France), Secretary General; G. Champetier de Ribes (France), Treasurer; Asher Shadmon (Israel), Past President; L. Calembert (Belgium), Vice-president for Europe; L. Cluff (USA), Vice-president for North America; M.D. Ruiz (Brazil), Vice-president for South America; L. Oborn (New Zealand), vice president for Australasia; H. Tanaka (Japan), Vice-president for Asia; a representative from Ghana as Vice-president for Africa. Other members: N.V. Kolomenskij (USSR); A Nemock (Czechoslovakia); J. Janjic (Yugoslavia); R. Glossop (United Kingdom); A. Drucker (Federal Republic of Germany); J.M. Crepeau (Canada).\n\nIn addition to the executive committee, three \"working groups\" were established:\n\n\nFinally, it was decided to organize future congresses specifically for the IAEG and to hold these alternately with the International Geological Congresses, which means that both events would take place every four years but the IAEG would have a congress with a general assembly every two years and scientific symposia in the years in between.\n\nThe first congresses with general assemblies were as follows:\n\n\nThe first elected executive committee decided in their second meeting at the UNESCO Palace in Paris (May 1969) to create a journal of the IAEG, to be edited and published by the Association and called the Bulletin of the IAEG (full name: \"Bulletin of the International Association of Engineering Geology - Bulletin de l'Association Internationale de Géologie de l'Ingénieur\").\n\nThe first edition of the Bulletin was distributed during the first IAEG congress in September 1970 in Paris. This was possible thanks to the personal efforts of Quido Záruba, the IAEG president, J. Pasek, Marcel Arnould and several other staff from the Paris School of Mines. Starting as a simple artisanal publication, the Bulletin became a scientific reference among the most respected journals in the fields of engineering geology, the environment and other geosciences, and \"the official journal of the IAEG\". It is now published by Springer Science+Business Media and edited by the Association, and goes with the title \"Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment.\"\n\nAs a result of the progressive involvement of engineering geologists in consulting, in the study, design, construction and supervision of large projects and in the assessment and remediation of environmental issues, an update of the first statutes of the association was deemed necessary. The second statutes were approved by the general assembly in Kyoto (Japan) in 1992.\n\nA new definition of engineering geology was given, which reflected the experience collected during the previous 25 years and read as follows: \"“Engineering geology is a science devoted to the investigation, study and solution of engineering and environmental problems which may arise as the result of the interaction between geology and the works and activities of man as well as to the prediction of and the development of measures for prevention or remediation of geologic hazards. Engineering geology embraces: the definition of geomorphology, structure, stratigraphy, lithology and groundwater conditions of geological formations; the characterization of the mineralogical, physico-geomechanical, chemical and hydraulic properties of all earth materials involved in construction, resource recovery and environmental change; the assessment of the mechanical and hydrologic behaviour of soil and rock masses; the prediction of changes to the above properties with time; the determination of the parameters to be considered in the stability analysis of engineering works and of earth masses; and the improvement and maintenance of the environmental condition and of the properties of the terrain”\".\n\nAs of May 2018, the IAEG has 3,798 members divided as follows:\n\n\nThe IAEG has 59 national groups (+1 for the territory of Chinese Taipei):\nFollowing is a list of the international congresses of the IAEG, which are held every four years. Since 1998, the congresses have a main theme, which is reflected in the denomination of the event.\n\n\nThe IAEG organizes also regional conferences. So far, Asian regional conferences and European regional conferences have been held.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1966670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966670", "title": "Kaokoveld", "text": "Kaokoveld\n\nThe Kaokoveld Desert is a coastal desert of northern Namibia and southern Angola.\n\nThe Kaokoveld Desert occupies a coastal strip covering , from 13° to 21°S and is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean to the west, the Namibian savanna woodlands to the east, and the Namib Desert to the south. It includes the Mossamedes Desert of southern Angola. The Kaokoveld is a harsh desert of drifting sandunes and rocky mountains. It receives most of its rainfall during the summer, which distinguishes it from the adjacent Namib Desert to the south, which receives most of its rain during the winter.\nThe Kunene River is the only permanent watercourse but many dry riverbeds (including the Hoanib, Hoarusib and Khumib Rivers) carry moisture through the desert and are home to animals including elephants, black rhinos, and giraffe. Other than those the area is ancient desert sand, moistened by occasional coastal fog.\n\nThe Kaokoveld is home to \"Welwitschia mirabilis\", a plant that has no close living relatives.\n\nThe Kaokoveld is home to a number of endemic reptiles while large mammals including desert elephants (\"Loxodonta africana\"), black rhinos (\"Diceros bicornis\") and giraffes (\"Giraffa camelopardalis\") visit the riverbeds. There is a great deal of birdlife including the endemic Cinderella waxbill (\"Estrilda thomensis\") on the Kunene River.\n\nSkeleton Coast National Park runs for 500 km along the coast of Namibia and is the main protected area in the region, along with other smaller conservancies inland. Much of the area was formerly protected under Game Reserve 2, which was reduced in size to become Etosha National Park in 1967, with a subsequent increase in poaching and more recently uncontrolled off-road driving. There is an area of sand dunes in Iona National Park in Angola.\n\n"}
{"id": "27976384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27976384", "title": "Kuhberg (Stützengrün)", "text": "Kuhberg (Stützengrün)\n\nKuhberg is a mountain of Saxony, southeastern Germany.\n"}
{"id": "12868484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12868484", "title": "List of Graeco-Roman geographers", "text": "List of Graeco-Roman geographers\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31326587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31326587", "title": "List of North American cities by population", "text": "List of North American cities by population\n\nFor the majority of cities in North America, the most recent official population census results, estimates or short-term projections date to 2015. This list compiles figures for all North American cities with a population within city limits exceeding 500,000 that year. These figures do not reflect the population of the urban agglomeration or metropolitan area which typically do not coincide with the administrative boundaries of the city. They refer to mid-2015 populations with the following exceptions:\n\n"}
{"id": "47776042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47776042", "title": "List of administrative heads of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands", "text": "List of administrative heads of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands\n\nList of administrative heads of Cocos (Keeling) Islands is article on the list of executives.\n\n\"Note:\" The Administrator of Cocos (Keeling) Islands is also Administrator of Australian Indian Ocean Territories since 1 July 1996, and Administrator of the Christmas Island since 1 November 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13734118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13734118", "title": "List of airports in Saint Martin", "text": "List of airports in Saint Martin\n\nThis is a list of airports in Saint Martin, an island in the northeast Caribbean.\n\nThe southern Dutch half of the island comprises the \"Sint Maarten\" and is a constituent country. This portion contains the island's international airport: Princess Juliana International Airport.\n\nThe northern French half of the island comprises the \"Collectivité de Saint-Martin\" (Collectivity of Saint Martin), which became an overseas collectivity (\"collectivité d'outre-mer\" or \"COM\") of France on February 22, 2007. Previously it was a French \"commune\" of Guadeloupe, which is an overseas region (\"région d'outre-mer\") and overseas department (\"département d'outre-mer\" or \"DOM\") of France. It contains the island's smaller airport which offers flights to the other islands of the French West Indies: Guadeloupe, Martinique and Saint Barthélemy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "403699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403699", "title": "List of anime conventions", "text": "List of anime conventions\n\nThis is a list of noteworthy anime conventions from around the world, as distinct from comic book conventions, furry conventions, gaming conventions, horror conventions, multigenre conventions, and science fiction conventions. This list is sectioned by location, and each convention includes in parentheses the dates during which it is typically held. Dates listed are approximate or traditional time periods for each convention. Multi-genre, comic book, furry, gaming, and science fiction conventions are not listed here.\n\nThese are notable conventions that have at one time existed, but have either gone on hiatus for more than one year, were merged into other conventions, or have finished operating entirely. Defunct conventions are listed here when where there is an official or reliable announcement and/or the convention's website appears dead. Conventions that are cancelled for a given year, are marked as \"On Hiatus\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24004874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24004874", "title": "List of butterflies of Menorca", "text": "List of butterflies of Menorca\n\nMenorca is a small island in the Mediterranean Sea belonging to Spain, with a population of approximately 88,000. It is located 39°47' to 40°00'N, 3°52' to 4°24'E. There is good data on the butterflies of Menorca although it is not easy to find as most field guides do not give data on the smaller Mediterranean islands. A good source in English is Butterflies of Menorca which lists 26 species and gives data on flight period and abundance.\n\nButterflies can be seen in all months of the year but the best months are May to September, the only butterfly not to fly in this period is the green hairstreak which usually flies from February to April, but if the season is late it can be seen into May.\n\nSwallowtails\n\nWhites\n\nBrowns\n\nMonarchs\n\n\nBlues\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7425354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7425354", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of Afghanistan", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of Afghanistan\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of Afghanistan, excluding honorary consulates.\n\nAt the height of the Taliban regime in the 1990s the only Afghan missions were in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (the only countries which recognised the Taliban regime). For a while when the Taliban controlled 90% of the country, the ultra-fundamentalist regime was also seeking to regain control of Afghanistan's seat at the United Nations, held by the Northern Alliance.\n\nShortly after the September 11 attacks, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates closed down the Afghan missions to the point Afghanistan had no foreign functioning embassies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9907370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9907370", "title": "List of heritage registers", "text": "List of heritage registers\n\nThis list is of heritage registers, inventories of cultural properties, natural and man-made, tangible and intangible, movable and immovable, that are deemed to be of sufficient heritage value to be separately identified and recorded. In many instances the pages linked below have as their primary focus the registered assets rather than the registers themselves. Where a particular article or set of articles on a foreign-language Wikipedia provides fuller coverage, a link is provided.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSites Protected at the City Level of Hangzhou are districts, artifacts or buildings legally declared to be \"protected\". According to the \"Regularations of historic districts and historic buildings in Hangzhou\" effectivated from 1 January 2005, historic buildings are those artifacts or districts that have lasted more than 50 years, and of significant values for history, science, and art study. In Hangzhou, declaring a historic house requires consulting the urban planning administration bureau, and the real estate administration bureau.\n\nAs of 31 June 2011, there are 287 declared historic houses in Hangzhou, proclaimed as 5 batches. In the near future, it is going to issue the sixth batch which includes 51 historic houses.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe list is maintained by Service des sites et monuments nationaux, a Government agency. The latest version is available here .\n\nSee on and \n\n\n\n\n\nCultural Heritage of Serbia (see also: World Heritage Sites in Serbia)\n\nThe register is divided into twelve categories:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHeritage, culture, planning and conservation are devolved issues in the United Kingdom, and are dealt with by the governments of the constituent countries. England, which does not have its own devolved government, is covered by an agency of the United Kingdom government.\n\nSee also Historic Environment Record (HERs) and Sites and Monuments Record (SMRs) maintained usually at a local government level (archaeological trusts in Wales).\n\n\nIn the United States, a site is only listed on the National Register of Historic Places on recommendation from the state historic preservation offices in the relevant state. Some states maintain their own state-level historic registers, although in some U.S. states all properties on the state register duplicate the National Register listing. The National Register listing in itself confers no protection to a historic property but may qualify the site for matching grants for historic restoration. Local historic designations in many municipalities provide some limited protection against demolition of historic landmarks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42121441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42121441", "title": "List of museums in Guam", "text": "List of museums in Guam\n\nThis is a list of museums in Guam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5209075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5209075", "title": "List of non-native birds of Great Britain", "text": "List of non-native birds of Great Britain\n\nThe list of British birds comprises all those bird species which have occurred in a wild state in Great Britain. Since the Victorian era many bird species have been introduced to Britain, whether for sport, ornament or general experimenting, and some have established themselves whilst others have not. Others have escaped from captivity and established themselves, though many species either die out after a few years or die off in harsh weather. This page lists the bird species that have established colonies in the British Isles. Some non-native birds have established themselves and become naturalised after naturally migrating to the country and forming colonies, such as the collared dove.\n\nEscaped birds of certain species, e.g. ruddy shelduck, can cause confusion amongst birdwatchers as they occasionally occur in Britain as wild birds. \n\nThe following species have established colonies in the UK at some point in time. They may have since died out, or new colonies established elsewhere.\n\n\n\nIn addition to the species listed below, almost any bird kept in captivity (especially wildfowl) may escape and their origins may not always be obvious. Excluding the likelihood of captive origin is a major hurdle to be faced by the British Birds Rarities Committee when assessing reports of rare and vagrant species to Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4204211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4204211", "title": "List of people from Vilnius", "text": "List of people from Vilnius\n\nThe following is a list of notable people from Lithuania's capital city of Vilnius (historically known by the names of Vilna/Wilna/Wilno). It includes both the people born there and people born elsewhere but otherwise connected to it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409395", "title": "List of political parties in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "List of political parties in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThis article lists political parties in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.\nSaint Vincent and the Grenadines has a two-party system, which means that there are two dominant political parties, with extreme difficulty for electoral success of smaller parties.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19678825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19678825", "title": "List of re-education through labor camps in China", "text": "List of re-education through labor camps in China\n\nRe-education through labor (RTL; in Chinese, \"laodong jiaoyang\" 劳动教养, abbreviated láojiào 劳教) is a system of administrative detentions in the People's Republic of China. The estimated number of detainees in re-education through labor camps is anywhere from 300,000 (\"China Labor Bulletin\", 2007) to 2 million (Laogai Research Foundation, 2006). There are at least 310 camps in China (\"China Daily\", 2007).\n\nUnless otherwise specified, information is from the following source:\n"}
{"id": "55227387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55227387", "title": "List of stock exchanges in the Commonwealth of Nations", "text": "List of stock exchanges in the Commonwealth of Nations\n\nThis is a list of active stock exchanges in the Commonwealth of Nations (Full Members). The Commonwealth of Nations features member-states located on all major continents and represents almost one-third of the Earth's population. Some states have signed agreements establishing multi-state regional stock exchanges while other larger states may hold more than one, or even specialised stock exchange(s).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6998764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6998764", "title": "List of television stations in Central Asia", "text": "List of television stations in Central Asia\n\nThis is a list of television stations in Central Asia.\n\nKazakh Television & Radio Corporation\n\nPrivate/Other:\n\n\nPublic Broadcasting Corporation of Kyrgyz Republic - KTRK\n\nPrivate/Other:\n\nTV Tajikistan\n\nMTRK - National Television and Radio Company of Uzbekistan\n\nRegional television stations of NTRC Uzbekistan:\n\nPrivate/Other:\n\n"}
{"id": "21673143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21673143", "title": "Lists of corporate headquarters by city", "text": "Lists of corporate headquarters by city\n\nThis page is a list of pages listing corporate headquarters and corporations headquartered in particular cities. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32623154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32623154", "title": "Maiden Paps (Hawick)", "text": "Maiden Paps (Hawick)\n\nThe Maiden Paps are twin hills near Hawick, in the Scottish Borders of the south east of Scotland, that have the shape of human breasts. They are located 12 km south of Hawick; the higher pap is 510 m and the lower 500 m high.\n\nAlthough there are some well defined hills like the Maiden Paps, the Roxburgh Hills are gently rolling for the most part, like much of the Southern Uplands. Due to the surrounding landscape, hills such as the Maiden Paps tend to look more prominent than they actually are.\n\nThe Maiden Paps are relatively close to Shankend (3.5 km to the NE) and to the Hermitage Castle (6 km to the south); these are two places with a sinister reputation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21019185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21019185", "title": "Ministry of the Interior (Taiwan)", "text": "Ministry of the Interior (Taiwan)\n\nThe Ministry of the Interior (MOI; ) is a cabinet level policy-making body, governed under the Executive Yuan of the Republic of China (Taiwan). It is the fundamental executive yuan agency responsible for home affairs and security throughout Taiwan, including population, land, construction, military service administration, national emergency services, local administration systems, law enforcement and social welfare (prior to 23 July 2013).\n\nIt closely monitors the rights of the residents and every aspect of national development to ensure steady progress of the nation, strengthen social peace and order, and upgrade the quality of citizens' lives.\n\nThe Ministry strives to achieve the following:\n\nIn accordance to the Ministry of Interior Organization Act, the Ministry is charged with the following:\n\nThe Ministry is currently organized into five departments, one office, four sections, six committees, and one center to share the responsibilities. \n\nFurthermore, the Ministry is also set up with sixteen social administration units and two land administration units, which are directly under the management of the Ministry as second level agencies.\n\n\nThe MOI building is accessible by NTU Hospital Station of the Taipei Metro on the Red Line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14431176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14431176", "title": "Photochemical Reflectance Index", "text": "Photochemical Reflectance Index\n\nThe Photochemical Reflectance Index (PRI) is a reflectance measurement developed by John Gamon during his tenure as a postdoctorate fellow supervised by Christopher Field at the Carnegie Institution for Science at Stanford University. The PRI is sensitive to changes in carotenoid pigments (e.g. xanthophyll pigments) in live foliage. Carotenoid pigments are indicative of photosynthetic light use efficiency, or the rate of carbon dioxide uptake by foliage per unit energy absorbed. As such, it is used in studies of vegetation productivity and stress. Because the PRI measures plant responses to stress, it can be used to assess general ecosystem health using satellite data or other forms of remote sensing. Applications include vegetation health in evergreen shrublands, forests, and agricultural crops prior to senescence. PRI is defined by the following equation using reflectance (ρ) at 531 and 570 nm wavelength:\n\nSome authors use\n\nThe values range from –1 to 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "4481179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4481179", "title": "Project for Public Spaces", "text": "Project for Public Spaces\n\nProject for Public Spaces (PPS) is a nonprofit organization based in New York dedicated to creating and sustaining public places that build communities. \n\nPlanning and design rooted in the community form the cornerstone of PPS’s work. Building on the techniques of William H. Whyte's \"Street Life Project,\" this approach involves looking at, listening to, and asking questions of the people in a community to discover their needs and aspirations. It was founded in 1975 by Fred Kent.\n\n"}
{"id": "494435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494435", "title": "Public holidays in Bangladesh", "text": "Public holidays in Bangladesh\n\nBangladesh has numerous public holidays, including national memorial, religious and secular holidays of Bengali origin. The Bengali traditional calendar, known as Banggabda is the national and official calendar in Bangladesh. The holidays are celebrated according to Bengali, Islamic or Gregorian calendars for religious and civil purposes, respectively. Religious festivals like Eid are celebrated according to the Islamic calendar whereas other national holidays are celebrated according to the Bengali and Gregorian calendar. While the Islamic calendar is based on the movement of the moon, it loses synchronization with the seasons, through seasonal drift. Therefore, some public holidays are subject to change every year based on the lunar calendar.\n\nThere are fifteen public holidays in Bangladesh. Muslims and non-Muslims have four religious holidays each in addition to the secular seven national holidays. For the Muslims, four major Islamic holidays: Muharram, Mawlid, Eid ul-Fitr and Eid ul-Adha are observed. For the Hindus: Krishna Janmashtami and Durga Puja are celebrated. As for the Christians and Buddhists: Christmas and Vesak (one day each) are celebrated. \n\n"}
{"id": "55205288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55205288", "title": "Raymond L. Bryant", "text": "Raymond L. Bryant\n\nRaymond L. Bryant is a British-Canadian geographer and Professor of Political Ecology at King's College London. He is known for his contributions to the interdisciplinary field of political ecology.\n\nBryant studied politics to receive a BA (Hons) from the University of Victoria, Canada, in 1983 and an MA from Carleton University, Canada, in 1989. He received a PhD from the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London in 1993 for research on forestry in Burma.\n\nBryant has been active in the Department of Geography at King's College London since 1993. He has also taught at Cambridge University, Yale University and University College London and has, among other places, been invited to speak at the universities in Oxford, Chicago and Copenhagen.\n\nHe serves on the editorial boards of Political Geography, the Singapore Journal of Tropical Geography, and the Journal of Political Ecology.\n\nBryant has played a key role in the development of political ecology as an interdisciplinary field, with implications in geography, anthropology, and development studies. With Sinéad Bailey, he published the landmark \"Third World Political Ecology\" (Routledge, 1997) arguing that the costs and benefits of environmental change always are distributed unequally. Environmental change also reinforces or alters social and economic inequalities as well as power relations. Bryant and Bailey developed an actor-centred perspective to show how environmental change is shaped by actors on different scales with unequal power resources.\n\nBryant has continued to synthesize research in the field, most recently in the \"International Handbook of Political Ecology\" (Edward Elgar, 2015).\n\nA key theme in Bryant's research has been the politics of forestry, particularly in Burma. He has studied how the Burmese state historically has sought to control forests and forest-related activities, but also how other environmental actors including peasants, loggers, and transnational corporations have contested state control.\n\nAs part of a wider effort to study ethical consumption, he has contributed to our understanding of the knowledge regimes and violence associated with teak branding for Western markets.\n\nAnother theme in Bryant's research has been the role of NGOs in environmental struggles and the way such organizations strategize and empower themselves by generating 'moral capital'. Through in-depth studies of NGOs in the Philippines, he argues that the 'quest for moral capital' is compromized by NGOs' need to work with political and economic elites.\n\nBryant lives with his wife and two children in London.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32938783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32938783", "title": "Telephone numbers in the British Indian Ocean Territory", "text": "Telephone numbers in the British Indian Ocean Territory\n\nCountry Code: +246<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 00\n\nNational Significant Numbers (NSN): seven digits.\n\nThe group of islands forming the British Indian Ocean Territory has no area codes. \n\nThis region includes the Chagos Archipelago, the main island of which is Diego Garcia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1465439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1465439", "title": "The Gully (Atlantic)", "text": "The Gully (Atlantic)\n\nThe Gully is a large underwater canyon in the Atlantic Ocean near the edge of the eastern continental shelf of North America. It is located east of Nova Scotia near Sable Island.\n\nThe Gully is 40 km long and 16 km wide and reaches depths of over 1 km. It is home to a resident population of Northern Bottlenose Whale, Purple sunstarfish and deep-sea coral. Other species of whales, dolphins, fish, squid and shrimp also live there.\n\nIn 2004, Canada designated The Gully a Marine Protected Area. Fisheries and Oceans Canada prohibit oil and gas exploration within this MPA.\n\n"}
{"id": "51740311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51740311", "title": "Timeline of Matanzas", "text": "Timeline of Matanzas\n\nThe following is a timeline of the history of the city of Matanzas, Cuba.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38686801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38686801", "title": "William Schmollinger", "text": "William Schmollinger\n\nWilliam Schmollinger (\"fl\". 1830s) was a famous cartographer.\n\nHe engraved a map of Hertfordshire with Thomas Moule, commonly known as \"Moule's Map of Hertfordshire\".\n"}
{"id": "55471497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471497", "title": "Zapoljak", "text": "Zapoljak\n\nZapoljak is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
