{"id": "55813912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55813912", "title": "2016 international conference on Sunni Islam in Grozny", "text": "2016 international conference on Sunni Islam in Grozny\n\nThe 2016 conference on Sunni Islam in Grozny was convened to define the term \"Ahl al-Sunna wa’l-Jama‘ah\", i.e. who are \"the people of Sunnism and the Sunni community\" in Islam, and oppose Takfiri groups. The conference was held in the Chechen Republic capital of Grozny from 25–27 August 2016 and attended by approximately 200 Muslim scholars from Egypt, Russia, Syria, Sudan, Jordan, and Europe at the invitation of Yemeni Sufi preacher, Al-habib Ali al-Jifri. The conference was notable for excluding representatives of Wahhabi and Salafi movements, and for its definition of Sunni Muslims in the final communiqué of the conference that included Sufis, Ash’arites and Maturidis, but not Wahhabis or Salafis.\n\nThe conference definition stated:\n“Ahl as-Sunnah wal-Jama’ah are the Ash’arites and Maturidis (adherents of the theological systems of Imam Abu Mansur al-Maturidi and Imam Abul-Hasan Al-Ash`ari). In matters of belief, they are followers of any of the four schools of thought (Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi’i or Hanbali) and are also the followers of the Sufism of Imam Junaid al-Baghdadi in doctrines, manners and [spiritual] purification.\"\n\nAmong the notable scholars and preachers in attendance were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573", "title": "Alchemy", "text": "Alchemy\n\nAlchemy (from Arabic: \"al-kīmiyā\") was an ancient branch of natural philosophy, a philosophical and protoscientific tradition practiced throughout Europe, Africa, and Asia, originating in Hellenistic Egypt (primarily Alexandria) between the 4th and 3rd centuries BCE. It aims to purify, mature, and perfect certain objects. Common aims were chrysopoeia, the transmutation of \"base metals\" (e.g., lead) into \"noble metals\" (particularly gold); the creation of an elixir of immortality; the creation of panaceas able to cure any disease; and the development of an alkahest, a universal solvent. The perfection of the human body and soul was thought to permit or result from the alchemical \"magnum opus\" and, in the Hellenistic and Western mystery tradition, the achievement of gnosis. In Europe, the creation of a philosopher's stone was variously connected with all of these projects.\n\nIn English, the term is often limited to descriptions of European alchemy, but similar practices existed in the Far East, the Indian subcontinent, and the Muslim world. In Europe, following the 12th-century Renaissance produced by the translation of Medieval Islamic works on science and the rediscovery of Aristotelian philosophy, alchemists played a significant role in early modern science (particularly chemistry and medicine). Islamic and European alchemists developed a structure of basic laboratory techniques, theory, terminology, and experimental method, some of which are still in use today. However, they continued antiquity's belief in four elements and guarded their work in secrecy including cyphers and cryptic symbolism. Their work was guided by Hermetic principles related to magic, mythology, and religion.\n\nModern discussions of alchemy are generally split into an examination of its exoteric practical applications and its esoteric spiritual aspects, despite the arguments of scholars like Holmyard and von Franz that they should be understood as complementary. The former is pursued by historians of the physical sciences who examine the subject in terms of early chemistry, medicine, and charlatanism, and the philosophical and religious contexts in which these events occurred. The latter interests historians of esotericism, psychologists, and some philosophers and spiritualists. The subject has also made an ongoing impact on literature and the arts. Despite this split, which von Franz believes has existed since the Western traditions' origin in a mix of Greek philosophy that was mixed with Egyptian and Mesopotamian technology, numerous sources have stressed an integration of esoteric and exoteric approaches to alchemy as far back as Pseudo-Democritus's first-century  \"On Physical and Mystical Matters\" (). Although alchemy is popularly associated with magic, historian Lawrence M. Principe writes \"Most readers probably are aware of several common claims about alchemy—for example, ... that it is akin to magic, or that its practice then or now is essentially deceptive. These ideas about alchemy emerged during the eighteenth century or after. While each of them might have limited validity within a narrow context, none of them is an accurate depiction of alchemy in general.\"\n\nThe word alchemy comes from Old French \"alquemie\", \"alkimie\", used in Medieval Latin as \"alchymia\". This name was itself brought from the Arabic word \"al-kīmiyā’\" ( or ) composed of two parts: the Late Greek term \"khēmeía\" (χημεία), \"khēmía\" (χημία), meaning 'to fuse or cast a metal', and the Arabic definite article \"al-\" (), meaning 'The'. Together this association can be interpreted as 'the process of transmutation by which to fuse or reunite with the divine or original form'. Its roots can be traced to the Egyptian name \"kēme\" (hieroglyphic 𓆎𓅓𓏏𓊖 \"khmi\" ), meaning ‘black earth’ which refers to the fertile and auriferous soil of the Nile valley, as opposed to red desert sand.\n\nAccording to the Egyptologist Wallis Budge, the Arabic word \"al-kīmiyaʾ\" actually means \"the Egyptian [science]\", borrowing from the Coptic word for \"Egypt\", \"kēme\" (or its equivalent in the Mediaeval Bohairic dialect of Coptic, \"khēme\"). This Coptic word derives from Demotic \"kmỉ\", itself from ancient Egyptian \"kmt\". The ancient Egyptian word referred to both the country and the colour \"black\" (Egypt was the \"Black Land\", by contrast with the \"Red Land\", the surrounding desert); so this etymology could also explain the nickname \"Egyptian black arts\". However, according to Mahn, this theory may be an example of folk etymology. Assuming an Egyptian origin, chemistry is defined as follows:\n\nThus, according to Budge and others, chemistry derives from an Egyptian word \"khemein\" or \"khēmia\", \"preparation of black powder\", ultimately derived from the name \"khem\", Egypt. A decree of Diocletian, written about 300 AD in Greek, speaks against \"the ancient writings of the Egyptians, which treat of the \"khēmia\" transmutation of gold and silver\".\n\nThe Medieval Latin form was influenced by Greek \"chymeia\" (χυμεία) meaning ‘mixture’ and referring to pharmaceutical chemistry.\n\nAlchemy is several philosophical traditions spanning some four millennia and three continents. These traditions' general penchant for cryptic and symbolic language makes it hard to trace their mutual influences and \"genetic\" relationships. One can distinguish at least three major strands, which appear to be largely independent, at least in their earlier stages: Chinese alchemy, centered in China and its zone of cultural influence; Indian alchemy, centered on the Indian subcontinent; and Western alchemy, which occurred around the Mediterranean and whose center has shifted over the millennia from Greco-Roman Egypt, to the Islamic world, and finally medieval Europe. Chinese alchemy was closely connected to Taoism and Indian alchemy with the Dharmic faiths, whereas Western alchemy developed its own philosophical system that was largely independent of, but influenced by, various Western religions. It is still an open question whether these three strands share a common origin, or to what extent they influenced each other.\n\nThe start of Western alchemy may generally be traced to ancient and Hellenistic Egypt, where the city of Alexandria was a center of alchemical knowledge, and retained its pre-eminence through most of the Greek and Roman periods. Here, elements of technology, religion, mythology, and Hellenistic philosophy, each with their own much longer histories, combined to form the earliest known records of alchemy in the West. Zosimos of Panopolis wrote the oldest known books on alchemy, while Mary the Jewess is credited as being the first non-fictitious Western alchemist. They wrote in Greek and lived in Egypt under Roman rule.\n\nMythology – Zosimos of Panopolis asserted that alchemy dated back to Pharaonic Egypt where it was the domain of the priestly class, though there is little to no evidence for his assertion. Alchemical writers used Classical figures from Greek, Roman, and Egyptian mythology to illuminate their works and allegorize alchemical transmutation. These included the pantheon of gods related to the Classical planets, Isis, Osiris, Jason, and many others.\n\nThe central figure in the mythology of alchemy is Hermes Trismegistus (or Thrice-Great Hermes). His name is derived from the god Thoth and his Greek counterpart Hermes. Hermes and his caduceus or serpent-staff, were among alchemy's principal symbols. According to Clement of Alexandria, he wrote what were called the \"forty-two books of Hermes\", covering all fields of knowledge. The \"Hermetica\" of Thrice-Great Hermes is generally understood to form the basis for Western alchemical philosophy and practice, called the hermetic philosophy by its early practitioners. These writings were collected in the first centuries of the common era.\n\nTechnology – The dawn of Western alchemy is sometimes associated with that of metallurgy, extending back to 3500 . Many writings were lost when the emperor Diocletian ordered the burning of alchemical books after suppressing a revolt in Alexandria ( 292). Few original Egyptian documents on alchemy have survived, most notable among them the Stockholm papyrus and the Leyden papyrus X. Dating from  300–500, they contained recipes for dyeing and making artificial gemstones, cleaning and fabricating pearls, and manufacturing of imitation gold and silver. These writings lack the mystical, philosophical elements of alchemy, but do contain the works of Bolus of Mendes (or Pseudo-Democritus), which aligned these recipes with theoretical knowledge of astrology and the classical elements. Between the time of Bolus and Zosimos, the change took place that transformed this metallurgy into a Hermetic art.\n\nPhilosophy – Alexandria acted as a melting pot for philosophies of Pythagoreanism, Platonism, Stoicism and Gnosticism which formed the origin of alchemy's character. An important example of alchemy's roots in Greek philosophy, originated by Empedocles and developed by Aristotle, was that all things in the universe were formed from only four elements: earth, air, water, and fire. According to Aristotle, each element had a sphere to which it belonged and to which it would return if left undisturbed. The four elements of the Greek were mostly qualitative aspects of matter, not quantitative, as our modern elements are; \"...True alchemy never regarded earth, air, water, and fire as corporeal or chemical substances in the present-day sense of the word. The four elements are simply the primary, and most general, qualities by means of which the amorphous and purely quantitative substance of all bodies first reveals itself in differentiated form.\" Later alchemists extensively developed the mystical aspects of this concept.\n\nAlchemy coexisted alongside emerging Christianity. Lactantius believed Hermes Trismegistus had prophesied its birth. St Augustine later affirmed this in the 4th & 5th centuries, but also condemned Trismegistus for idolatry. Examples of Pagan, Christian, and Jewish alchemists can be found during this period.\n\nMost of the Greco-Roman alchemists preceding Zosimos are known only by pseudonyms, such as Moses, Isis, Cleopatra, Democritus, and Ostanes. Others authors such as Komarios, and Chymes, we only know through fragments of text. After  400, Greek alchemical writers occupied themselves solely in commenting on the works of these predecessors. By the middle of the 7th century alchemy was almost an entirely mystical discipline. It was at that time that Khalid Ibn Yazid sparked its migration from Alexandria to the Islamic world, facilitating the translation and preservation of Greek alchemical texts in the 8th and 9th centuries.\n\nThe Vedas describe a connection between eternal life and gold. The use of Mercury for alchemy is first documented in the 3rd- or 4th-century \"Arthashastra\". Buddhist texts from the 2nd to 5th centuries mention the transmutation of base metals to gold. Greek alchemy may have been introduced to Ancient India through the invasions of Alexander the Great in 325 , and kingdoms that were culturally influenced by the Greeks like Gandhāra, although hard evidence for this is lacking.\n\nThe 11th-century Persian chemist and physician Abū Rayhān Bīrūnī, who visited Gujarat as part of the court of Mahmud of Ghazni, reported that they\n\nThe goals of alchemy in India included the creation of a divine body (Sanskrit \"divya-deham\") and immortality while still embodied (Sanskrit \"jīvan-mukti\"). Sanskrit alchemical texts include much material on the manipulation of mercury and sulphur, that are homologized with the semen of the god Śiva and the menstrual blood of the goddess Devī.\n\nSome early alchemical writings seem to have their origins in the Kaula tantric schools associated to the teachings of the personality of Matsyendranath. Other early writings are found in the Jaina medical treatise \"Kalyāṇakārakam\" of Ugrāditya, written in South India in the early 9th century.\n\nTwo famous early Indian alchemical authors were Nāgārjuna Siddha and Nityanātha Siddha. Nāgārjuna Siddha was a Buddhist monk. His book, \"Rasendramangalam\", is an example of Indian alchemy and medicine. Nityanātha Siddha wrote \"Rasaratnākara\", also a highly influential work. In Sanskrit, \"rasa\" translates to \"mercury\", and Nāgārjuna Siddha was said to have developed a method of converting mercury into gold.\n\nReliable scholarship on Indian alchemy has been advanced in a major way by the publication of \"The Alchemical Body\" by David Gordon White. Trustworthy scholarship on Indian alchemy must now take the findings of this work into account.\n\nAn important modern bibliography on Indian alchemical studies has also been provided by David Gordon White at Oxford Bibliographies Online.\n\nThe contents of 39 Sanskrit alchemical treatises have been analysed in detail in G. Jan Meulenbeld's \"History of Indian Medical Literature\". The discussion of these works in HIML gives a summary of the contents of each work, their special features, and where possible the evidence concerning their dating. Chapter 13 of HIML, \"Various works on rasaśāstra and ratnaśāstra\" (or \"Various works on alchemy and gems\") gives brief details of a further 655 (six hundred and fifty-five) treatises. In some cases Meulenbeld gives notes on the contents and authorship of these works; in other cases references are made only to the unpublished manuscripts of these titles.\n\nA great deal remains to be discovered about Indian alchemical literature. The content of the Sanskrit alchemical corpus has not yet (2014) been adequately integrated into the wider general history of alchemy.\n\nAfter the fall of the Roman Empire, the focus of alchemical development moved to the Islamic World. Much more is known about Islamic alchemy because it was better documented: indeed, most of the earlier writings that have come down through the years were preserved as Arabic translations. The word \"alchemy\" itself was derived from the Arabic word \"al-kīmiyā’\" (الكيمياء). The early Islamic world was a melting pot for alchemy. Platonic and Aristotelian thought, which had already been somewhat appropriated into hermetical science, continued to be assimilated during the late 7th and early 8th centuries through Syriac translations and scholarship.\n\nIn the late 8th century, Jābir ibn Hayyān (Latinized as \"Geber\" or \"Geberus\") introduced a new approach to alchemy, based on scientific methodology and controlled experimentation in the laboratory, in contrast to the ancient Greek and Egyptian alchemists whose works were often allegorical and unintelligible, with very little concern for laboratory work. Jabir is thus \"considered by many to be the father of chemistry\", albeit others reserve that title for Robert Boyle or Antoine Lavoisier. The science historian, Paul Kraus, wrote:\n\nJabir himself clearly recognized and proclaimed the importance of experimentation:\n\nEarly Islamic chemists such as Jabir Ibn Hayyan, Al-Kindi (\"Alkindus\") and Muhammad ibn Zakarīya Rāzi (\"Rasis\" or \"Rhazes\") contributed a number of key chemical discoveries, such as the muriatic (hydrochloric acid), sulfuric and nitric acids, and more. The discovery that aqua regia, a mixture of nitric and hydrochloric acids, could dissolve the noblest metal, gold, was to fuel the imagination of alchemists for the next millennium.\n\nIslamic philosophers also made great contributions to alchemical hermeticism. The most influential author in this regard was arguably Jabir. Jabir's ultimate goal was \"Takwin\", the artificial creation of life in the alchemical laboratory, up to, and including, human life. He analyzed each Aristotelian element in terms of four basic qualities of \"hotness\", \"coldness\", \"dryness\", and \"moistness\". According to Jabir, in each metal two of these qualities were interior and two were exterior. For example, lead was externally cold and dry, while gold was hot and moist. Thus, Jabir theorized, by rearranging the qualities of one metal, a different metal would result. By this reasoning, the search for the philosopher's stone was introduced to Western alchemy. Jabir developed an elaborate numerology whereby the root letters of a substance's name in Arabic, when treated with various transformations, held correspondences to the element's physical properties.\n\nThe elemental system used in medieval alchemy also originated with Jabir. His original system consisted of seven elements, which included the five classical elements (aether, air, earth, fire, and water) in addition to two chemical elements representing the metals: sulphur, \"the stone which burns\", which characterized the principle of combustibility, and mercury, which contained the idealized principle of metallic properties. Shortly thereafter, this evolved into eight elements, with the Arabic concept of the three metallic principles: sulphur giving flammability or combustion, mercury giving volatility and stability, and salt giving solidity. The atomic theory of corpuscularianism, where all physical bodies possess an inner and outer layer of minute particles or corpuscles, also has its origins in the work of Jabir.\n\nFrom the 9th to 14th centuries, alchemical theories faced criticism from a variety of practical Muslim chemists, including Alkindus, Abū al-Rayhān al-Bīrūnī, Avicenna and Ibn Khaldun. In particular, they wrote refutations against the idea of the transmutation of metals.\n\nWhereas European alchemy eventually centered on the transmutation of base metals into noble metals, Chinese alchemy had a more obvious connection to medicine. The philosopher's stone of European alchemists can be compared to the Grand Elixir of Immortality sought by Chinese alchemists. However, in the hermetic view, these two goals were not unconnected, and the philosopher's stone was often equated with the universal panacea; therefore, the two traditions may have had more in common than initially appears.\n\nBlack powder may have been an important invention of Chinese alchemists. As previously stated above, Chinese alchemy was more related to medicine. It is said that the Chinese invented gunpowder while trying to find a potion for eternal life. Described in 9th-century texts and used in fireworks in China by the 10th century, it was used in cannons by 1290. From China, the use of gunpowder spread to Japan, the Mongols, the Muslim world, and Europe. Gunpowder was used by the Mongols against the Hungarians in 1241, and in Europe by the 14th century.\n\nChinese alchemy was closely connected to Taoist forms of traditional Chinese medicine, such as Acupuncture and Moxibustion, and to martial arts such as Tai Chi Chuan and Kung Fu (although some Tai Chi schools believe that their art derives from the philosophical or hygienic branches of Taoism, not Alchemical). In fact, in the early Song dynasty, followers of this Taoist idea (chiefly the elite and upper class) would ingest mercuric sulfide, which, though tolerable in low levels, led many to suicide. Thinking that this consequential death would lead to freedom and access to the Taoist heavens, the ensuing deaths encouraged people to eschew this method of alchemy in favor of external sources (the aforementioned Tai Chi Chuan, mastering of the qi, etc.)\n\nThe introduction of alchemy to Latin Europe may be dated to 11 February 1144, with the completion of Robert of Chester's translation of the Arabic \"Book of the Composition of Alchemy\". Although European craftsmen and technicians preexisted, Robert notes in his preface that alchemy was unknown in Latin Europe at the time of his writing. The translation of Arabic texts concerning numerous disciplines including alchemy flourished in 12th-century Toledo, Spain, through contributors like Gerard of Cremona and Adelard of Bath. Translations of the time included the Turba Philosophorum, and the works of Avicenna and al-Razi. These brought with them many new words to the European vocabulary for which there was no previous Latin equivalent. Alcohol, carboy, elixir, and athanor are examples.\n\nMeanwhile, theologian contemporaries of the translators made strides towards the reconciliation of faith and experimental rationalism, thereby priming Europe for the influx of alchemical thought. The 11th-century St Anselm put forth the opinion that faith and rationalism were compatible and encouraged rationalism in a Christian context. In the early 12th century, Peter Abelard followed Anselm's work, laying down the foundation for acceptance of Aristotelian thought before the first works of Aristotle had reached the West. In the early 13th century, Robert Grosseteste used Abelard's methods of analysis and added the use of observation, experimentation, and conclusions when conducting scientific investigations. Grosseteste also did much work to reconcile Platonic and Aristotelian thinking.\n\nThrough much of the 12th and 13th centuries, alchemical knowledge in Europe remained centered on translations, and new Latin contributions were not made. The efforts of the translators were succeeded by that of the encyclopaedists. In the 13th century, Albertus Magnus and Roger Bacon were the most notable of these, their work summarizing and explaining the newly imported alchemical knowledge in Aristotelian terms. Albertus Magnus, a Dominican monk, is known to have written works such as the \"Book of Minerals\" where he observed and commented on the operations and theories of alchemical authorities like Hermes and Democritus and unnamed alchemists of his time. Albertus critically compared these to the writings of Aristotle and Avicenna, where they concerned the transmutation of metals. From the time shortly after his death through to the 15th century, more than 28 alchemical tracts were misattributed to him, a common practice giving rise to his reputation as an accomplished alchemist. Likewise, alchemical texts have been attributed to Albert's student Thomas Aquinas.\n\nRoger Bacon, a Franciscan monk who wrote on a wide variety of topics including optics, comparative linguistics, and medicine, composed his \"Great Work\" () for as part of a project towards rebuilding the medieval university curriculum to include the new learning of his time. While alchemy was not more important to him than other sciences and he did not produce allegorical works on the topic, he did consider it and astrology to be important parts of both natural philosophy and theology and his contributions advanced alchemy's connections to soteriology and Christian theology. Bacon's writings integrated morality, salvation, alchemy, and the prolongation of life. His correspondence with Clement highlighted this, noting the importance of alchemy to the papacy. Like the Greeks before him, Bacon acknowledged the division of alchemy into practical and theoretical spheres. He noted that the theoretical lay outside the scope of Aristotle, the natural philosophers, and all Latin writers of his time. The practical, however, confirmed the theoretical thought experiment, and Bacon advocated its uses in natural science and medicine. In later European legend, however, Bacon became an archmage. In particular, along with Albertus Magnus, he was credited with the forging of a brazen head capable of answering its owner's questions.\n\nSoon after Bacon, the influential work of Pseudo-Geber (sometimes identified as Paul of Taranto) appeared. His \"Summa Perfectionis\" remained a staple summary of alchemical practice and theory through the medieval and renaissance periods. It was notable for its inclusion of practical chemical operations alongside sulphur-mercury theory, and the unusual clarity with which they were described. By the end of the 13th century, alchemy had developed into a fairly structured system of belief. Adepts believed in the macrocosm-microcosm theories of Hermes, that is to say, they believed that processes that affect minerals and other substances could have an effect on the human body (for example, if one could learn the secret of purifying gold, one could use the technique to purify the human soul). They believed in the four elements and the four qualities as described above, and they had a strong tradition of cloaking their written ideas in a labyrinth of coded jargon set with traps to mislead the uninitiated. Finally, the alchemists practiced their art: they actively experimented with chemicals and made observations and theories about how the universe operated. Their entire philosophy revolved around their belief that man's soul was divided within himself after the fall of Adam. By purifying the two parts of man's soul, man could be reunited with God.\n\nIn the 14th century, alchemy became more accessible to Europeans outside the confines of Latin speaking churchmen and scholars. Alchemical discourse shifted from scholarly philosophical debate to an exposed social commentary on the alchemists themselves. Dante, Piers Plowman, and Chaucer all painted unflattering pictures of alchemists as thieves and liars. Pope John XXII's 1317 edict, \"Spondent quas non exhibent\" forbade the false promises of transmutation made by pseudo-alchemists. In 1403, Henry IV of England banned the practice of multiplying metals (although it was possible to buy a licence to attempt to make gold alchemically, and a number were granted by Henry VI and Edward IV). These critiques and regulations centered more around pseudo-alchemical charlatanism than the actual study of alchemy, which continued with an increasingly Christian tone. The 14th century saw the Christian imagery of death and resurrection employed in the alchemical texts of Petrus Bonus, John of Rupescissa, and in works written in the name of Raymond Lull and Arnold of Villanova.\n\nNicolas Flamel is a well-known alchemist, but a good example of pseudepigraphy, the practice of giving your works the name of someone else, usually more famous. Although the historical Flamel existed, the writings and legends assigned to him only appeared in 1612. Flamel was not a religious scholar as were many of his predecessors, and his entire interest in the subject revolved around the pursuit of the philosopher's stone. His work spends a great deal of time describing the processes and reactions, but never actually gives the formula for carrying out the transmutations. Most of 'his' work was aimed at gathering alchemical knowledge that had existed before him, especially as regarded the philosopher's stone. Through the 14th and 15th centuries, alchemists were much like Flamel: they concentrated on looking for the philosophers' stone. Bernard Trevisan and George Ripley made similar contributions. Their cryptic allusions and symbolism led to wide variations in interpretation of the art.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, Hermetic and Platonic foundations were restored to European alchemy. The dawn of medical, pharmaceutical, occult, and entrepreneurial branches of alchemy followed.\n\nIn the late 15th century, Marsilo Ficino translated the Corpus Hermeticum and the works of Plato into Latin. These were previously unavailable to Europeans who for the first time had a full picture of the alchemical theory that Bacon had declared absent. Renaissance Humanism and Renaissance Neoplatonism guided alchemists away from physics to refocus on mankind as the alchemical vessel.\n\nEsoteric systems developed that blended alchemy into a broader occult Hermeticism, fusing it with magic, astrology, and Christian cabala. A key figure in this development was German Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa (1486–1535), who received his Hermetic education in Italy in the schools of the humanists. In his \"De Occulta Philosophia\", he attempted to merge Kabbalah, Hermeticism, and alchemy. He was instrumental in spreading this new blend of Hermeticism outside the borders of Italy.\n\nPhilippus Aureolus Paracelsus, (Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, 1493–1541) cast alchemy into a new form, rejecting some of Agrippa's occultism and moving away from chrysopoeia. Paracelsus pioneered the use of chemicals and minerals in medicine and wrote, \"Many have said of Alchemy, that it is for the making of gold and silver. For me such is not the aim, but to consider only what virtue and power may lie in medicines.\"\n\nHis hermetical views were that sickness and health in the body relied on the harmony of man the microcosm and Nature the macrocosm. He took an approach different from those before him, using this analogy not in the manner of soul-purification but in the manner that humans must have certain balances of minerals in their bodies, and that certain illnesses of the body had chemical remedies that could cure them. Paracelsian practical alchemy, especially herbal medicine and plant remedies has since been named spagyric (a synonym for alchemy from the Greek words meaning \"to separate\" and \"to join together\", based on the Latin alchemic maxim: \"solve et coagula\"). Iatrochemistry also refers to the pharmaceutical applications of alchemy championed by Paracelsus.\n\nJohn Dee (13 July 1527 – December, 1608) followed Agrippa's occult tradition. Although better known for angel summoning, divination, and his role as astrologer, cryptographer, and consultant to Queen Elizabeth I, Dee's alchemical \"Monas Hieroglyphica\", written in 1564 was his most popular and influential work. His writing portrayed alchemy as a sort of terrestrial astronomy in line with the Hermetic axiom \"As above so below\". During the 17th century, a short-lived \"supernatural\" interpretation of alchemy became popular, including support by fellows of the Royal Society: Robert Boyle and Elias Ashmole. Proponents of the supernatural interpretation of alchemy believed that the philosopher's stone might be used to summon and communicate with angels.\n\nEntrepreneurial opportunities were common for the alchemists of Renaissance Europe. Alchemists were contracted by the elite for practical purposes related to mining, medical services, and the production of chemicals, medicines, metals, and gemstones. Rudolf II, Holy Roman Emperor, in the late 16th century, famously received and sponsored various alchemists at his court in Prague, including Dee and his associate Edward Kelley. King James IV of Scotland, Julius, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, Henry V, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, Augustus, Elector of Saxony, Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn, and Maurice, Landgrave of Hesse-Kassel all contracted alchemists. John's son Arthur Dee worked as a court physician to Michael I of Russia and Charles I of England but also compiled the alchemical book \"Fasciculus Chemicus\".\n\nAlthough most of these appointments were legitimate, the trend of pseudo-alchemical fraud continued through the Renaissance. \"Betrüger\" would use sleight of hand, or claims of secret knowledge to make money or secure patronage. Legitimate mystical and medical alchemists such as Michael Maier and Heinrich Khunrath wrote about fraudulent transmutations, distinguishing themselves from the con artists. False alchemists were sometimes prosecuted for fraud.\n\nThe terms \"chemia\" and \"alchemia\" were used as synonyms in the early modern period, and the differences between alchemy, chemistry and small-scale assaying and metallurgy were not as neat as in the present day. There were important overlaps between practitioners, and trying to classify them into alchemists, chemists and craftsmen is anachronistic. For example, Tycho Brahe (1546–1601), an alchemist better known for his astronomical and astrological investigations, had a laboratory built at his Uraniborg observatory/research institute. Michael Sendivogius (\"Michał Sędziwój\", 1566–1636), a Polish alchemist, philosopher, medical doctor and pioneer of chemistry wrote mystical works but is also credited with distilling oxygen in a lab sometime around 1600. Sendivogious taught his technique to Cornelius Drebbel who, in 1621, applied this in a submarine. Isaac Newton devoted considerably more of his writing to the study of alchemy (see Isaac Newton's occult studies) than he did to either optics or physics. Other early modern alchemists who were eminent in their other studies include Robert Boyle, and Jan Baptist van Helmont. Their Hermeticism complemented rather than precluded their practical achievements in medicine and science.\n\nThe decline of European alchemy was brought about by the rise of modern science with its emphasis on rigorous quantitative experimentation and its disdain for \"ancient wisdom\". Although the seeds of these events were planted as early as the 17th century, alchemy still flourished for some two hundred years, and in fact may have reached its peak in the 18th century. As late as 1781 James Price claimed to have produced a powder that could transmute mercury into silver or gold. Early modern European alchemy continued to exhibit a diversity of theories, practices, and purposes: \"Scholastic and anti-Aristotelian, Paracelsian and anti-Paracelsian, Hermetic, Neoplatonic, mechanistic, vitalistic, and more—plus virtually every combination and compromise thereof.\"\n\nRobert Boyle (1627–1691) pioneered the scientific method in chemical investigations. He assumed nothing in his experiments and compiled every piece of relevant data. Boyle would note the place in which the experiment was carried out, the wind characteristics, the position of the Sun and Moon, and the barometer reading, all just in case they proved to be relevant. This approach eventually led to the founding of modern chemistry in the 18th and 19th centuries, based on revolutionary discoveries of Lavoisier and John Dalton.\n\nBeginning around 1720, a rigid distinction was drawn between \"alchemy\" and \"chemistry\" for the first time. By the 1740s, \"alchemy\" was now restricted to the realm of gold making, leading to the popular belief that alchemists were charlatans, and the tradition itself nothing more than a fraud. In order to protect the developing science of modern chemistry from the negative censure of which alchemy was being subjected, academic writers during the scientific Enlightenment attempted, for the sake of survival, to divorce and separate the \"new\" chemistry from the \"old\" practices of alchemy. This move was mostly successful, and the consequences of this continued into the 19th and 20th centuries, and even to the present day.\n\nDuring the occult revival of the early 19th century, alchemy received new attention as an occult science. The esoteric or occultist school, which arose during the 19th century, held (and continues to hold) the view that the substances and operations mentioned in alchemical literature are to be interpreted in a spiritual sense, and it downplays the role of the alchemy as a practical tradition or protoscience. This interpretation further forwarded the view that alchemy is an art primarily concerned with spiritual enlightenment or illumination, as opposed to the physical manipulation of apparatus and chemicals, and claims that the obscure language of the alchemical texts were an allegorical guise for spiritual, moral or mystical processes.\n\nIn the 19th-century revival of alchemy, the two most seminal figures were Mary Anne Atwood and Ethan Allen Hitchcock, who independently published similar works regarding spiritual alchemy. Both forwarded a completely esoteric view of alchemy, as Atwood claimed: \"No modern art or chemistry, notwithstanding all its surreptitious claims, has any thing in common with Alchemy.\" Atwood's work influenced subsequent authors of the occult revival including Eliphas Levi, Arthur Edward Waite, and Rudolf Steiner. Hitchcock, in his \"Remarks Upon Alchymists\" (1855) attempted to make a case for his spiritual interpretation with his claim that the alchemists wrote about a spiritual discipline under a materialistic guise in order to avoid accusations of blasphemy from the church and state. In 1845, Baron Carl Reichenbach, published his studies on Odic force, a concept with some similarities to alchemy, but his research did not enter the mainstream of scientific discussion.\n\nSeveral women appear in the earliest history of alchemy. Michael Maier names Mary the Jewess, Cleopatra the Alchemist, Medera, and Taphnutia as the four women who knew how to make the philosopher's stone. Zosimos' sister Theosebia (later known as Euthica the Arab) and Isis the Prophetess also played a role in early alchemical texts.\n\nThe first alchemist whose name we know is said to have been Mary the Jewess (c. 200 A.D.). Early sources claim that Mary (or Maria) devised a number of improvements to alchemical equipment and tools as well as novel techniques in chemistry. Her best known advances were in heating and distillation processes. The laboratory water-bath, known eponymously (especially in France) as the bain-marie, is said to have been invented or at least improved by her. Essentially a double-boiler, it was (and is) used in chemistry for processes that require gentle heating. The tribikos (a modified distillation apparatus) and the kerotakis (a more intricate apparatus used especially for sublimations) are two other advancements in the process of distillation that are credited to her. The occasional claim that Mary was the first to discover hydrochloric acid is not accepted by most authorities. Although we have no writing from Mary herself, she is known from the early-fourth-century writings of Zosimos of Panopolis.\n\nDue to the proliferation of pseudepigrapha and anonymous works, it is difficult to know which of the alchemists were actually women. After the Greco-Roman period, women's names appear less frequently in the alchemical literature. Women vacate the history of alchemy during the medieval and renaissance periods, aside from the fictitious account of Perenelle Flamel. Mary Anne Atwood's \"A Suggestive Inquiry into the Hermetic Mystery\" (1850) marks their return during the nineteenth-century occult revival.\n\nThe history of alchemy has become a significant and recognized subject of academic study. As the language of the alchemists is analyzed, historians are becoming more aware of the intellectual connections between that discipline and other facets of Western cultural history, such as the evolution of science and philosophy, the sociology and psychology of the intellectual communities, kabbalism, spiritualism, Rosicrucianism, and other mystic movements. Institutions involved in this research include The Chymistry of Isaac Newton project at Indiana University, the University of Exeter Centre for the Study of Esotericism (EXESESO), the European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism (ESSWE), and the University of Amsterdam's Sub-department for the History of Hermetic Philosophy and Related Currents. A large collection of books on alchemy is kept in the Bibliotheca Philosophica Hermetica in Amsterdam. A recipe found in a mid-19th-century kabbalah based book features step by step instructions on turning copper into gold. The author attributed this recipe to an ancient manuscript he located.\n\nJournals which publish regularly on the topic of Alchemy include 'Ambix', published by the Society for the History of Alchemy and Chemistry, and 'Isis', published by The History of Science Society.\n\nWestern alchemical theory corresponds to the worldview of late antiquity in which it was born. Concepts were imported from Neoplatonism and earlier Greek cosmology. As such, the Classical elements appear in alchemical writings, as do the seven Classical planets and the corresponding seven metals of antiquity. Similarly, the gods of the Roman pantheon who are associated with these luminaries are discussed in alchemical literature. The concepts of prima materia and anima mundi are central to the theory of the philosopher's stone.\n\nIn the eyes of a variety of esoteric and Hermetic practitioners, alchemy is fundamentally spiritual. Transmutation of lead into gold is presented as an analogy for personal transmutation, purification, and perfection. The writings attributed to Hermes Trismegistus are a primary source of alchemical theory. He is named \"alchemy's founder and chief patron, authority, inspiration and guide\".\n\nEarly alchemists, such as Zosimos of Panopolis (c. AD 300), highlight the spiritual nature of the alchemical quest, symbolic of a religious regeneration of the human soul. This approach continued in the Middle Ages, as metaphysical aspects, substances, physical states, and material processes were used as metaphors for spiritual entities, spiritual states, and, ultimately, transformation. In this sense, the literal meanings of 'Alchemical Formulas' were a blind, hiding their true spiritual philosophy. Practitioners and patrons such as Melchior Cibinensis and Pope Innocent VIII existed within the ranks of the church, while Martin Luther applauded alchemy for its consistency with Christian teachings. Both the transmutation of common metals into gold and the universal panacea symbolized evolution from an imperfect, diseased, corruptible, and ephemeral state toward a perfect, healthy, incorruptible, and everlasting state, so the philosopher's stone then represented a mystic key that would make this evolution possible. Applied to the alchemist himself, the twin goal symbolized his evolution from ignorance to enlightenment, and the stone represented a hidden spiritual truth or power that would lead to that goal. In texts that are written according to this view, the cryptic alchemical symbols, diagrams, and textual imagery of late alchemical works typically contain multiple layers of meanings, allegories, and references to other equally cryptic works; and must be laboriously decoded to discover their true meaning.\n\nIn his 1766 \"Alchemical Catechism\", Théodore Henri de Tschudi denotes that the usage of the metals was merely symbolic:\n\nThe Great Work of Alchemy is often described as a series of four stages represented by colors.\n\n\nDue to the complexity and obscurity of alchemical literature, and the 18th-century disappearance of remaining alchemical practitioners into the area of chemistry; the general understanding of alchemy has been strongly influenced by several distinct and radically different interpretations. Those focusing on the exoteric, such as historians of science Lawrence M. Principe and William R. Newman, have interpreted the 'decknamen' (or code words) of alchemy as physical substances. These scholars have reconstructed physicochemical experiments that they say are described in medieval and early modern texts. At the opposite end of the spectrum, focusing on the esoteric, scholars, such as George Calian and Anna Marie Roos, who question the reading of Principe and Newman, interpret these same decknamen as spiritual, religious, or psychological concepts.\n\nToday new interpretations of alchemy are still perpetuated, sometimes merging in concepts from New Age or radical environmentalism movements. Groups like the Rosicrucians and Freemasons have a continued interest in alchemy and its symbolism. Since the Victorian revival of alchemy, \"occultists reinterpreted alchemy as a spiritual practice, involving the self-transformation of the practitioner and only incidentally or not at all the transformation of laboratory substances\", which has contributed to a merger of magic and alchemy in popular thought.\n\nTraditional medicine can use the concept of the transmutation of natural substances, using pharmacological or a combination of pharmacological and spiritual techniques. In Ayurveda, the samskaras are claimed to transform heavy metals and toxic herbs in a way that removes their toxicity. These processes are actively used to the present day.\n\nSpagyrists of the 20th century, Albert Richard Riedel and Jean Dubuis, merged Paracelsian alchemy with occultism, teaching laboratory pharmaceutical methods. The schools they founded, \"Les Philosophes de la Nature\" and \"The Paracelsus Research Society\", popularized modern spagyrics including the manufacture of herbal tinctures and products. The courses, books, organizations, and conferences generated by their students continue to influence popular applications of alchemy as a New Age medicinal practice.\n\nAlchemical symbolism has been important in depth and analytical psychology and was revived and popularized from near extinction by the Swiss psychologist Carl Gustav Jung. Initially confounded and at odds with alchemy and its images, after being given a copy of the translation of \"The Secret of the Golden Flower\", a Chinese alchemical text, by his friend Richard Wilhelm, Jung discovered a direct correlation or parallels between the symbolic images in the alchemical drawings and the inner, symbolic images coming up in dreams, visions or imaginations during the psychic processes of transformation occurring in his patients. A process, which he called \"process of individuation\". He regarded the alchemical images as symbols expressing aspects of this \"process of individuation\" of which the creation of the gold or lapis within were symbols for its origin and goal. Together with his alchemical \"mystica soror\", Jungian Swiss analyst Marie-Louise von Franz, Jung began collecting all the old alchemical texts available, compiled a lexicon of key phrases with cross-references and pored over them. The volumes of work he wrote brought new light into understanding the art of transubstantiation and renewed alchemy's popularity as a symbolic process of coming into wholeness as a human being where opposites brought into contact and inner and outer, spirit and matter are reunited in the \"hieros gamos\" or divine marriage. His writings are influential in psychology and for persons who have an interest in understanding the importance of dreams, symbols and the unconscious archetypal forces (archetypes) that influence all of life.\n\nBoth von Franz and Jung have contributed greatly to the subject and work of alchemy and its continued presence in psychology as well as contemporary culture. Jung wrote volumes on alchemy and his magnum opus is Volume 14 of his Collected Works, \"Mysterium Conuinctionis.\"\n\nAlchemy has had a long-standing relationship with art, seen both in alchemical texts and in mainstream entertainment. \"Literary alchemy\" appears throughout the history of English literature from Shakespeare to J. K. Rowling, and also the popular Japanese manga Full Metal Alchemist. Here, characters or plot structure follow an alchemical magnum opus. In the 14th century, Chaucer began a trend of alchemical satire that can still be seen in recent fantasy works like those of Terry Pratchett.\n\nVisual artists had a similar relationship with alchemy. While some of them used alchemy as a source of satire, others worked with the alchemists themselves or integrated alchemical thought or symbols in their work. Music was also present in the works of alchemists and continues to influence popular performers. In the last hundred years, alchemists have been portrayed in a magical and spagyric role in fantasy fiction, film, television, novels, comics and video games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3942109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3942109", "title": "Anti-consumerism", "text": "Anti-consumerism\n\nAnti-consumerism is a sociopolitical ideology that is opposed to consumerism, the continual buying and consuming of material possessions. Anti-consumerism is concerned with the private actions of business corporations in pursuit of financial and economic goals at the expense of the public welfare, especially in matters of environmental protection, social stratification, and ethics in the governing of a society. In politics, anti-consumerism overlaps with environmental activism, anti-globalization, and animal-rights activism; moreover, a conceptual variation of anti-consumerism is \"post-consumerism\", living in a material way that transcends consumerism.\n\nAnti-consumerism arose in response to the problems caused by the long-term mistreatment of human consumers and of the animals consumed, and from the incorporation of consumer education to school curricula; examples of anti-consumerism are the book \"No Logo\" (2000) by Naomi Klein, and documentary films such as \"The Corporation\" (2003), by Mark Achbar and Jennifer Abbott, and \"Surplus: Terrorized into Being Consumers\" (2003), by Erik Gandini; each made anti-corporate activism popular as an ideologically accessible form of civil and political action.\n\nThe criticism of economic materialism as a dehumanizing behaviour that is destructive of the Earth, as human habitat, comes from religion and social activism. The religious criticism asserts that materialist consumerism interferes with the connection between the individual and God, and so is an inherently immoral style of life; thus the German historian Oswald Spengler (1880–1936) said that \"Life in America is exclusively economic in structure, and lacks depth.\" From the Roman Catholic perspective, Thomas Aquinas said that \"Greed is a sin against God, just as all mortal sins, in as much as man condemns things eternal for the sake of temporal things\"; in that vein, Francis of Assisi, Ammon Hennacy, and Mohandas Gandhi said that spiritual inspiration guided them towards simple living.\n\nFrom the secular perspective, social activism indicates that from consumerist materialism derive crime (which originates from the poverty of economic inequality), industrial pollution and the consequent environmental degradation, and war as a business. About the societal discontent born of malaise and hedonism, Pope Benedict XVI said that the philosophy of materialism offers no \"raison d'être\" for human existence; likewise, the writer Georges Duhamel said that \"American materialism [is] a beacon of mediocrity that threatened to eclipse French civilization\".\n\nAnti-consumerism originated from criticism of consumption, starting with Thorstein Veblen, who, in the book \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study of Institutions\" (1899), indicated that consumerism dates from the cradle of civilization. The term \"consumerism\" also denotes economic policies associated with Keynesian economics, and the belief that the free choice of consumers should dictate the economic structure of a society (cf. producerism).\n\nMany anti-corporate activists believe the rise of large-business corporations poses a threat to the legitimate authority of nation states and the public sphere. They feel corporations are invading people's privacy, manipulating politics and governments, and creating false needs in consumers. They state evidence such as invasive advertising adware, spam, telemarketing, child-targeted advertising, aggressive guerrilla marketing, massive corporate campaign contributions in political elections, interference in the policies of sovereign nation states (Ken Saro-Wiwa), and news stories about corporate corruption (Enron, for example).\n\nAnti-consumerism protesters point out that the main responsibility of a corporation is to answer only to shareholders, giving human rights and other issues almost no consideration. The management does have a primary responsibility to their shareholders, since any philanthropic activities that do not directly serve the business could be deemed to be a breach of trust. This sort of financial responsibility means that multi-national corporations will pursue strategies to intensify labor and reduce costs. For example, they will attempt to find low wage economies with laws which are conveniently lenient on human rights, the natural environment, trade union organization and so on (see, for example, Nike).\n\nAn important contribution to the critique of consumerism has been made by French philosopher Bernard Stiegler, arguing modern capitalism is governed by consumption rather than production, and the advertising techniques used to create consumer behaviour amount to the destruction of psychic and collective individuation. The diversion of libidinal energy toward the consumption of consumer products, he argues, results in an addictive cycle of consumption, leading to hyper consumption, the exhaustion of desire, and the reign of symbolic misery.\n\nIn art, Banksy, influential British graffiti master, painter, activist, filmmaker and all-purpose provocateur has made statements in public works about the consumerist society. Working undercover, the secretive street artist challenges social ideas and goads viewers into rethinking their surroundings, to acknowledge the absurdities of closely held preconceptions. Quote from Banksy: “You owe the companies nothing. Less than nothing, you especially don’t owe them any courtesy. They owe you. They have re-arranged the world to put themselves in front of you. They never asked for your permission, don’t even start asking for theirs.” After 2003, Banksy wrote the \"New Yorker\" by e-mail: “I give away thousands of paintings for free. I don’t think it’s possible to make art about world poverty and trouser all the cash.” Banksy believes that there is a consumerist shift in art, and for the first time, the bourgeois world of art belongs to the people. On his website, he provides high-resolution images of his work for free downloading.\n\nIn many critical contexts, the term describes the tendency of people to identify strongly with products or services they consume, especially with commercial brand names and obvious status-enhancing appeal, such as a brand of expensive automobiles or jewelry. It is a pejorative term which most people deny, having some more specific excuse or rationalization for consumption other than the idea that they are \"compelled to consume\". A culture that has a high amount of consumerism is referred to as a consumer culture.\n\nTo those who embrace the idea of consumerism, these products are not seen as valuable in themselves, but rather as social signals that allow them to identify like-minded people through consumption and display of similar products. Few would yet go so far, though, as to admit that their relationships with a product or brand name could be substitutes for healthy human relationships that sometimes lack in a dysfunctional modern society.\n\nThe older term \"conspicuous consumption\" described the United States in the 1960s, but was soon linked to larger debates about media influence, culture jamming, and its corollary productivism. \n\nThe term and concept of \"conspicuous consumption\" originated at the turn of the 20th century in the writing of economist Thorstein Veblen. The term describes an apparently irrational and confounding form of economic behaviour. Veblen's scathing proposal that this unnecessary consumption is a form of status display is made in darkly humorous observations like the following:\nIn 1955, economist Victor Lebow stated (as quoted by William Rees, 2009):\nAccording to archaeologists, evidence of conspicuous consumption up to several millennia ago has been found, suggesting that such behavior is inherent to humans.\n\nAnti-consumerists believe advertising plays a huge role in human life by informing values and assumptions of the cultural system, deeming what is acceptable and determining social standards. They declare that ads create a hyper-real world where commodities appear as the key to securing happiness. Anti-consumerists cite studies that find that individuals believe their quality of life improves in relation to social values that lie outside the capability of the market place. Therefore, advertising attempts to equate the social with the material by utilizing images and slogans to link commodities with the real sources of human happiness, such as meaningful relationships. Ads are then a detriment to society because they tell consumers that accumulating more and more possessions will bring them closer to self-actualization, or the concept of a complete and secure being. \"The underlying message is that owning these products will enhance our image and ensure our popularity with others\". And while advertising promises that a product will make the consumer happy, advertising simultaneously depends upon the consumer never being \"truly\" happy, as then the consumer would no longer feel the need to consume needless products.\n\nAnti-consumerists claim that in a consumerist society, advertisement images disempower and objectify the consumer. By stressing individual power, choice and desire, advertising falsely implies the control lies with the consumer. Because anti-consumerists believe commodities only supply short-term gratification, they detract from a sustainably happy society. Further, advertisers have resorted to new techniques of capturing attention, such as the increased speed of ads and product placements. In this way, commercials infiltrate the consumerist society and become an inextricable part of culture. Anti-consumerists condemn advertising because it constructs a simulated world that offers fantastical escapism to consumers, rather than reflecting actual reality. They further argue that ads depict the interests and lifestyles of the elite as natural; cultivating a deep sense of inadequacy among viewers. They denounce use of beautiful models because they glamorize the commodity beyond reach of the average individual.\n\nIn an opinion segment of \"New Scientist\" magazine published in August 2009, reporter Andy Coghlan cited William Rees of the University of British Columbia and epidemiologist Warren Hern of the University of Colorado at Boulder, saying that human beings, despite considering themselves civilized thinkers, are \"subconsciously still driven by an impulse for survival, domination and expansion... an impulse which now finds expression in the idea that inexorable economic growth is the answer to everything, and, given time, will redress all the world's existing inequalities.\" According to figures presented by Rees at the annual meeting of the Ecological Society of America, human society is in a \"global overshoot\", consuming 30% more material than is sustainable from the world's resources. Rees went on to state that at present, 85 countries are exceeding their domestic \"bio-capacities\", and compensate for their lack of local material by depleting the stocks of other countries.\n\nThroughout the ages, various movements have tried to model alternatives to consumerism while remaining in the capitalist society. Intentional communities provide an example of this, as do monastic orders, barter movements and technology-driving sharing or exchange mechanisms. For instance, an intentional community called the Bruderhof has a system of sharing within the community, and no money is used by the members. The Bruderhof runs a successful manufacturing business that allows it to trade in the capitalistic society, but without the members indulging in consumerism.\n\nSuch anti-consumerist, anti-capitalist notions are not without their detractors. New thought and theory has spurred movements to alter world economic climate. Green movements and some other thinkers are opposed to the focus put on economics. The need for terminology has created familiar ideas such as carrying-capacity, and ecological footprint.\n\nDavid Ricardo, an early economist, had ideas that state the finitude of growth, rather than the opposite; his ideas were similar to those of Mark Twain, when he said \"Buy land, they don't make it anymore.\" To Ricardian logic, land was a limiting factor.\n\nSome adherents to the Austrian economic philosophy advocate against consumerism due to its effect of contributing to \"debt slavery.\" Austrian economic advocates focus on the entrepreneur, promoting a productive lifestyle rather than a materialistic one wherein the individual is defined by things and not himself.\n\nMany have accused anti-consumerists of opposing modernity or utilitarianism. Right-wing critics see anti-consumerism as rooted in socialism. In 1999, the right-libertarian magazine \"Reason\" attacked anti-consumerism, claiming Marxist academics are repackaging themselves as anti-consumerists. James B. Twitchell, a professor at the University of Florida and popular writer, referred to anti-consumerist arguments as \"Marxism Lite.\"\n\nThere have also been socialist critics of anti-consumerism who see it as a form of anti-modern \"reactionary socialism\", and state that anti-consumerism has also been adopted by ultra-conservatives and fascists.\n\nIn Fight Club, the protagonist, finds himself participating in terroristic acts against corporate society and consumer culture.\n\nIn Mr. Robot, Elliot Anderson, a young cybersecurity engineer, joins a hacker group known as fsociety, which aims to crash the U.S. economy, eliminating all debt.\n\nIn the novel American Psycho by Bret Easton Ellis, the protagonist Patrick Bateman criticizes the consumerist society of America in the 1980s of which he is a personification. Later on he goes on a killing spree without any consequences, suggesting that the people around him are so self-absorbed and focused on consuming that they either don't see or don't care about his acts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30004450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30004450", "title": "Boris Parygin", "text": "Boris Parygin\n\nBoris Dmitrievitch Parygin (Russian: Борис Дмитриевич Парыгин) (19 June 1930 – 9 April 2012) was a Soviet and Russian philosopher, sociologist and one of the founders of social psychology and member of a wide range of international academies. Parygin was a specialist in a sphere of philosophical and psychological problems of social psychology – its history, methodology, theory and praxeology.\n\nParygin was born in Leningrad, USSR, where he survived the Siege of Leningrad. After school he attended Saint Petersburg State University where he studied philosophy (1948—1953, diploma with distinction). In 1961 he defended a theses about a problem of the social mood. In 1967 defended a doctoral theses \"Social Psychology as a science (questions of history, methodology and theory)\".\n\nAfter graduation he was teaching philosophy at Saint Petersburg State Pediatric Medical Academy (1957–1962). In 1965, Saint Petersburg State University publishing house had released Parygin’s first monograph \"Social Psychology as a Science\", which became a bibliographical rarity. In 1967, a revised edition of the monograph (15,000 copies) was translated into Czech, Bulgarian and Spanish. \n\nFrom 1968 Parygin was at the head of the Philosophy Department of a Herzen University. There he created the laboratory of the social and psychologic studies and social psychology faculty which was the first one in the Soviet Union. Many first-rate scientists lectured there and books edited by Boris Parygin were published. \n\nIn 1971, Parygin’s work titled \"The Basics of Socio-Psychological Theory\" was published (20,000 printed copies). In his book, Parygin presented the concept of the main social and psychological problems and first of all—the question of personality and human communication. This book drew a wide response in a scientific sphere of the Soviet Union and abroad. The monograph was republished in Germany (Cologne, 1975, Berlin, 1976) and in Japan (Tokyo, 1977).\n\nAt the meeting of Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1972), however, Parygin was called a leader of international revisionism of Marxism because of his independent interpretation. Later he was accused of the intention to substitute Marxist philosophy by the Philosophy of Personality. Due to this, he had got a different job in a Social and Economic Problems Institute, where he organized and led the department of socio-psychologic problems of the labor collectives. The results of his work have found reflection in his books \"The Scientific-Technical Revolution and personality\" (1978), “Social and psychological climate of the collective” (1981), \"Social psychology of territorial self-government\" (1993) and others.\nParygin was the head of the Research Committee of a Social Association, coordinated international researches within a Comecon.\n\nHe was the author of 10 prominent monographs and more than 400 articles, which were translated into many foreign languages (English, French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Portuguese, Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Lithuanian, Lettish and others).\n\nMain publications:\n\nArticles:\n\n"}
{"id": "5411161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5411161", "title": "Bushido: The Soul of Japan", "text": "Bushido: The Soul of Japan\n\nBushido: The Soul of Japan is a book written by Inazo Nitobe exploring the way of the samurai. It was published in 1900. \n\n\"Bushido: The Soul of Japan\" is, along with \"Hagakure\" by Yamamoto Tsunetomo (1659–1719), a study of the way of the samurai. A best-seller in its day, it was read by many influential foreigners, among them President Theodore Roosevelt, President John F. Kennedy and Robert Baden-Powell, the founder of the Boy Scouts. \n\nNitobe originally wrote \"Bushido: The Soul of Japan\" in English (1899), in Monterey, California, though according to the book's preface it was written in Malvern, Pennsylvania. The book was not translated into Japanese until it had been popular in the English-speaking world for several years.\n\nAs Japan underwent deep transformations of its traditional lifestyle and military while becoming a modern nation, Nitobe engaged in an inquiry into the ethos of his nation, and the result of his meditations was this seminal work. A fine stylist in English, he wrote many books in that language, which earned him a place among the best known Japanese writers of his age.\n\nHe found in Bushido, the Way of the Warrior, the sources of the eight virtues most admired by his people: rectitude, courage, benevolence, politeness, sincerity, honor, loyalty and self-control.\n\nHe also delved into the other indigenous traditions of Japan, such as Buddhism, Shintoism, Confucianism and the moral guidelines handed down over hundreds of years by Japan's samurai and sages.\nNitobe sought similarities and contrasts by citing the shapers of European and American thought and civilization going back to the Romans, the Greeks and Biblical times. He found a close resemblance between the samurai ethos of what he called Bushido and the spirit of medieval chivalry and the ethos of ancient Greece, as observed in books such as the \"Iliad\" of Homer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4770", "title": "Business ethics", "text": "Business ethics\n\nBusiness ethics (also known as corporate ethics) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics, that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that can arise in a business environment. It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations. These ethics originate from individuals, organizational statements or from the legal system. These norms, values, ethical, and unethical practices are what is used to guide business. They help those businesses maintain a better connection with their stakeholders.\n\nBusiness ethics refers to contemporary organizational standards, principles, sets of values and norms that govern the actions and behavior of an individual in the business organization. Business ethics have two dimensions, normative business ethics or descriptive business ethics. As a corporate practice and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative. Academics attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods. The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.\n\nInterest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia. For example, most major corporations today promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.\n\nAdam Smith said, \"People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices.\" Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions. Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control. The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes.\nMaintaining an ethical status is the responsibility of the manager of the business. According to the Journal of Business Ethics \"Managing ethical behavior is one of the most pervasive and complex problems facing business organizations today\"\n\nBusiness ethics reflect the norms of each historical period. As time passes, norms evolve, causing accepted behaviors to become objectionable. Business ethics and the resulting behavior evolved as well. Business was involved in slavery, colonialism, and the cold war.\n\nThe term 'business ethics' came into common use in the United States in the early 1970s. By the mid-1980s at least 500 courses in business ethics reached 40,000 students, using some twenty textbooks and at least ten casebooks supported by professional societies, centers and journals of business ethics. The Society for Business Ethics was founded in 1980. European business schools adopted business ethics after 1987 commencing with the European Business Ethics Network. In 1982 the first single-authored books in the field appeared.\n\nFirms began highlighting their ethical stature in the late 1980s and early 1990s, possibly in an attempt to distance themselves from the business scandals of the day, such as the savings and loan crisis. The concept of business ethics caught the attention of academics, media and business firms by the end of the Cold War. However, criticism of business practices was attacked for infringing the freedom of entrepreneurs and critics were accused of supporting communists. This scuttled the discourse of business ethics both in media and academia. The Defense Industry Initiative on Business Ethics and Conduct(DII) was created to support corporate ethical conduct. This era began the belief and support of self-regulation and free trade, which lifted tariffs and barriers and allowed businesses to merge and divest in an increasing global atmosphere.\n\nOne of the earliest written treatments of business ethics is found in the Tirukkuṛaḷ, a Tamil book dated variously from 300 BCE to 7th century CE and attributed to Thiruvalluvar. Many verses discuss business ethics, in particular verse 113, adapting to a changing environment in verses 474, 426, and 140, learning the intricacies of different tasks in verses 462 and 677.\n\nBusiness ethics reflects the philosophy of business, of which one aim is to determine the fundamental purposes of a company. If a company's purpose is to maximize shareholder returns, then sacrificing profits for other concerns is a violation of its fiduciary responsibility. Corporate entities are legally considered as persons in the United States and in most nations. The 'corporate persons' are legally entitled to the rights and liabilities due to citizens as persons.\n\nEthics are the rules or standards that govern our decisions on a daily basis. Many consider “ethics” with conscience or a simplistic sense of “right” and “wrong.” Others would say that ethics is an internal code that governs an individual’s conduct, ingrained into each person by family, faith, tradition, community, laws, and personal mores. Corporations and professional organizations, particularly licensing boards, generally will have a written “Code of Ethics” that governs standards of professional conduct expected of all in the field.\nIt is important to note that “law” and “ethics” are not synonymous, nor are the “legal” and “ethical” courses of action in a given situation necessarily the same. Statutes and regulations passed by legislative bodies and administrative boards set forth the “law.” Slavery once was legal in the US, but one certainly wouldn’t say enslaving another was an “ethical” act.\n\nEconomist Milton Friedman writes that corporate executives' \"responsibility... generally will be to make as much money as possible while conforming to their basic rules of the society, both those embodied in law and those embodied in ethical custom\". Friedman also said, \"the only entities who can have responsibilities are individuals ... A business cannot have responsibilities. So the question is, do corporate executives, provided they stay within the law, have responsibilities in their business activities other than to make as much money for their stockholders as possible? And my answer to that is, no, they do not.\" A multi-country 2011 survey found support for this view among the \"informed public\" ranging from 30 to 80%. Ronald Duska views Friedman's argument as consequentialist rather than pragmatic, implying that unrestrained corporate freedom would benefit the most in long term. Similarly author business consultant Peter Drucker observed, \"There is neither a separate ethics of business nor is one needed\", implying that standards of personal ethics cover all business situations. However, Peter Drucker in another instance observed that the ultimate responsibility of company directors is not to harm—\"primum non nocere\".\nAnother view of business is that it must exhibit corporate social responsibility (CSR): an umbrella term indicating that an ethical business must act as a responsible citizen of the communities in which it operates even at the cost of profits or other goals. In the US and most other nations corporate entities are legally treated as persons in some respects. For example, they can hold title to property, sue and be sued and are subject to taxation, although their free speech rights are limited. This can be interpreted to imply that they have independent ethical responsibilities. Duska argues that stakeholders have the right to expect a business to be ethical; if business has no ethical obligations, other institutions could make the same claim which would be counterproductive to the corporation.\n\nEthical issues include the rights and duties between a company and its employees, suppliers, customers and neighbors, its fiduciary responsibility to its shareholders. Issues concerning relations between different companies include hostile take-overs and industrial espionage. Related issues include corporate governance; corporate social entrepreneurship; political contributions; legal issues such as the ethical debate over introducing a crime of corporate manslaughter; and the marketing of corporations' ethics policies.\nAccording to IBE/ Ipsos MORI research published in late 2012, the three major areas of public concern regarding business ethics in Britain are executive pay, corporate tax avoidance and bribery and corruption.\n\nEthical standards of an entire organization can be damaged if a corporate psychopath is in charge. This will not only affect the company and its outcome but the employees who work under a corporate psychopath. The way a corporate psychopath can rise in a company is by their manipulation, scheming, and bullying. They do this in a way that can hide their true character and intentions within a company.\n\nFundamentally, finance is a social science discipline. The discipline borders behavioral economics, sociology, economics, accounting and management. It concerns technical issues such as the mix of debt and equity, dividend policy, the evaluation of alternative investment projects, options, futures, swaps, and other derivatives, portfolio diversification and many others. Finance is often mistaken by the people to be a discipline free from ethical burdens. The 2008 financial crisis caused critics to challenge the ethics of the executives in charge of U.S. and European financial institutions and financial regulatory bodies. Finance ethics is overlooked for another reason—issues in finance are often addressed as matters of law rather than ethics.\n\nAristotle said, \"the end and purpose of the polis is the good life\". Adam Smith characterized the good life in terms of material goods and intellectual and moral excellences of character. Smith in his \"The Wealth of Nations\" commented, \"All for ourselves, and nothing for other people, seems, in every age of the world, to have been the vile maxim of the masters of mankind.\" However, a section of economists influenced by the ideology of neoliberalism, interpreted the objective of economics to be maximization of economic growth through accelerated consumption and production of goods and services. Neoliberal ideology promoted finance from its position as a component of economics to its core. Proponents of the ideology hold that unrestricted financial flows, if redeemed from the shackles of \"financial repressions\", best help impoverished nations to grow. The theory holds that open financial systems accelerate economic growth by encouraging foreign capital inflows, thereby enabling higher levels of savings, investment, employment, productivity and \"welfare\", along with containing corruption. Neoliberals recommended that governments open their financial systems to the global market with minimal regulation over capital flows. The recommendations however, met with criticisms from various schools of ethical philosophy. Some pragmatic ethicists, found these claims to be unfalsifiable and a priori, although neither of these makes the recommendations false or unethical per se. Raising economic growth to the highest value necessarily means that welfare is subordinate, although advocates dispute this saying that economic growth provides more welfare than known alternatives. Since history shows that neither regulated nor unregulated firms always behave ethically, neither regime offers an ethical panacea.\n\nNeoliberal recommendations to developing countries to unconditionally open up their economies to transnational finance corporations was fiercely contested by some ethicists. The claim that deregulation and the opening up of economies would reduce corruption was also contested.\n\nDobson observes, \"a rational agent is simply one who pursues personal material advantage ad infinitum. In essence, to be rational in finance is to be individualistic, materialistic, and competitive. Business is a game played by individuals, as with all games the object is to win, and winning is measured in terms solely of material wealth. Within the discipline this rationality concept is never questioned, and has indeed become the theory-of-the-firm's sine qua non\". Financial ethics is in this view a mathematical function of shareholder wealth. Such simplifying assumptions were once necessary for the construction of mathematically robust models. However, signalling theory and agency theory extended the paradigm to greater realism.\n\nFairness in trading practices, trading conditions, financial contracting, sales practices, consultancy services, tax payments, internal audit, external audit and executive compensation also, fall under the umbrella of finance and accounting. Particular corporate ethical/legal abuses include: creative accounting, earnings management, misleading financial analysis, insider trading, securities fraud, bribery/kickbacks and facilitation payments. Outside of corporations, bucket shops and forex scams are criminal manipulations of financial markets. Cases include accounting scandals, Enron, WorldCom and Satyam.\n\nHuman resource management occupies the sphere of activity of recruitment selection, orientation, performance appraisal, training and development, industrial relations and health and safety issues. Business Ethicists differ in their orientation towards labor ethics. Some assess human resource policies according to whether they support an egalitarian workplace and the dignity of labor.\n\nIssues including employment itself, privacy, compensation in accord with comparable worth, collective bargaining (and/or its opposite) can be seen either as inalienable rights or as negotiable.\nDiscrimination by age (preferring the young or the old), gender/sexual harassment, race, religion, disability, weight and attractiveness. A common approach to remedying discrimination is affirmative action.\n\nOnce hired, employees have the right to occasional cost of living increases, as well as raises based on merit. Promotions, however, are not a right, and there are often fewer openings than qualified applicants. It may seem unfair if an employee who has been with a company longer is passed over for a promotion, but it is not unethical. It is only unethical if the employer did not give the employee proper consideration or used improper criteria for the promotion. Each employer should know the distinction between what is unethical and what is illegal. If an action is illegal it is breaking the law but if an action seems morally incorrect that is unethical. In the workplace what is unethical does not mean illegal and should follow the guidelines put in place by OSHA, EEOC, and other law binding entities.\n\nPotential employees have ethical obligations to employers, involving intellectual property protection and whistle-blowing.\n\nEmployers must consider workplace safety, which may involve modifying the workplace, or providing appropriate training or hazard disclosure. This differentiates on the location and type of work that is taking place and can needs to comply with the standards to protect employees and non-employees under workplace safety.\n\nLarger economic issues such as immigration, trade policy, globalization and trade unionism affect workplaces and have an ethical dimension, but are often beyond the purview of individual companies.\n\nTrade Unions for example, may push employers to establish due process for workers, but may also cause job loss by demanding unsustainable compensation and work rules.\n\nUnionized workplaces may confront union busting and strike breaking and face the ethical implications of work rules that advantage some workers over others.\n\nAmong the many people management strategies that companies employ are a \"soft\" approach that regards employees as a source of creative energy and participants in workplace decision making, a \"hard\" version explicitly focused on control and Theory Z that emphasizes philosophy, culture and consensus. None ensure ethical behavior. Some studies claim that sustainable success requires a humanely treated and satisfied workforce.\n\nMarketing ethics came of age only as late as the 1990s. Marketing ethics was approached from ethical perspectives of virtue or virtue ethics, deontology, consequentialism, pragmatism and relativism.\n\nEthics in marketing deals with the principles, values and/or ideals by which marketers (and marketing institutions) ought to act. Marketing ethics is also contested terrain, beyond the previously described issue of potential conflicts between profitability and other concerns.\nEthical marketing issues include marketing redundant or dangerous products/services transparency about environmental risks, transparency about product ingredients such as genetically modified organisms possible health risks, financial risks, security risks, etc., respect for consumer privacy and autonomy, advertising truthfulness and fairness in pricing & distribution.\n\nAccording to Borgerson, and Schroeder (2008), marketing can influence individuals' perceptions of and interactions with other people, implying an ethical responsibility to avoid distorting those perceptions and interactions.\n\nMarketing ethics involves pricing practices, including illegal actions such as price fixing and legal actions including price discrimination and price skimming. Certain promotional activities have drawn fire, including greenwashing, bait and switch, shilling, viral marketing, spam (electronic), pyramid schemes and multi-level marketing. Advertising has raised objections about attack ads, subliminal messages, sex in advertising and marketing in schools.\n\nBeing the most important element of a business, stakeholders' main concern is to determine whether or not the business is behaving ethically or unethically. The business' actions and decisions should be primarily ethical before it happens to become an ethical or even legal issue. \"In the case of the government, community, and society what was merely an ethical issue can become a legal debate and eventually law.\"\nSome unethical issues are:\n\n1. Fairness\nThe three aspects that motivate people to be fair is; equality, optimization, and reciprocity. Fairness is the quality of being just, equitable, and impartial.\n\n2. Misuse of company's times & Resources\nThis particular topic may not seems to be a very common one, but it is very important, as it costs a company billions of dollars on a yearly basis. This misuse is from late arrivals, leaving early, long lunch breaks, inappropriate sick days etc. This has been observed as a major form of misconduct in businesses today. One of the greatest ways employees participate in misuse of company's time and resources is by using the company computer for personal use.\n\n3. Consumer Fraud\nThere are many different types of fraud, namely; friendly fraud, return fraud, wardrobing, price arbitrage, returning stolen goods.\nFraud is a major unethical practice within businesses which should be paid special attention. Consumer fraud is when consumers attempt to deceive businesses for their very own benefit.\n\n4. Abusive Behavior\nA common ethical issue among employees. Abusive behavior consists of inflicting intimidating acts on other employees. Such acts include harassing, using profanity, threatening someone physically and insulting them, and being annoying.\n\nThis area of business ethics usually deals with the duties of a company to ensure that products and production processes do not needlessly cause harm. Since few goods and services can be produced and consumed with zero risk, determining the ethical course can be problematic. In some case consumers demand products that harm them, such as tobacco products. Production may have environmental impacts, including pollution, habitat destruction and urban sprawl. The downstream effects of technologies nuclear power, genetically modified food and mobile phones may not be well understood. While the precautionary principle may prohibit introducing new technology whose consequences are not fully understood, that principle would have prohibited most new technology introduced since the industrial revolution. Product testing protocols have been attacked for violating the rights of both humans and animals.With technology growing there are sources and websites that provide list and information on companies and business and that are \"green\" or do not test on animals. These companies often advertise this and are growing in popularity among the younger generations.\n\nThe etymological root of property is the Latin 'proprius' which refers to 'nature', 'quality', 'one's own', 'special characteristic', 'proper', 'intrinsic', 'inherent', 'regular', 'normal', 'genuine', 'thorough, complete, perfect' etc. The word property is value loaded and associated with the personal qualities of propriety and respectability, also implies questions relating to ownership. A 'proper' person owns and is true to herself or himself, and is thus genuine, perfect and pure.\n\nModern discourse on property emerged by the turn of the 17th century within theological discussions of that time. For instance, John Locke justified property rights saying that God had made \"the earth, and all inferior creatures, [in] common to all men\".\n\nIn 1802 Utilitarian Jeremy Bentham stated, \"property and law are born together and die together\".\n\nOne argument for property ownership is that it enhances individual liberty by extending the line of non-interference by the state or others around the person. Seen from this perspective, property right is absolute and property has a special and distinctive character that precedes its legal protection. Blackstone conceptualized property as the \"sole and despotic dominion which one man claims and exercises over the external things of the world, in total exclusion of the right of any other individual in the universe\".\n\nDuring the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, slavery spread to European colonies including America, where colonial legislatures defined the legal status of slaves as a form of property. During this time settlers began the centuries-long process of dispossessing the natives of America of millions of acres of land. The natives lost about of land in the Louisiana Territory under the leadership of Thomas Jefferson, who championed property rights.\n\nCombined with theological justification, property was taken to be essentially natural ordained by God. Property, which later gained meaning as ownership and appeared natural to Locke, Jefferson and to many of the 18th and 19th century intellectuals as land, labour or idea and property right over slaves had the same theological and essentialized justification It was even held that the property in slaves was a sacred right. Wiecek noted, \"slavery was more clearly and explicitly established under the Constitution as it had been under the Articles\". Accordingly, US Supreme Court Chief Justice Roger B. Taney in his 1857 judgment stated, \"The right of property in a slave is distinctly and expressly affirmed in the Constitution\".\n\nNeoliberals hold that private property rights are a non-negotiable natural right. Davies counters with \"property is no different from other legal categories in that it is simply a consequence of the significance attached by law to the relationships between legal persons.\" Singer claims, \"Property is a form of power, and the distribution of power is a political problem of the highest order\". Rose finds, \"'Property' is only an effect, a construction, of relationships between people, meaning that its objective character is contestable. Persons and things, are 'constituted' or 'fabricated' by legal and other normative techniques.\". Singer observes, \"A private property regime is not, after all, a Hobbesian state of nature; it requires a working legal system that can define, allocate, and enforce property rights.\" Davis claims that common law theory generally favors the view that \"property is not essentially a 'right to a thing', but rather a separable bundle of rights subsisting between persons which may vary according to the context and the object which is at stake\".\n\nIn common parlance property rights involve a 'bundle of rights' including occupancy, use and enjoyment, and the right to sell, devise, give, or lease all or part of these rights. Custodians of property have obligations as well as rights. Michelman writes, \"A property regime thus depends on a great deal of cooperation, trustworthiness, and self-restraint among the people who enjoy it.\"\n\nMenon claims that the autonomous individual, responsible for his/her own existence is a cultural construct moulded by Western culture rather than the truth about the human condition. Penner views property as an \"illusion\"—a \"normative phantasm\" without substance.\n\nIn the neoliberal literature, property is part of the private side of a public/private dichotomy and acts a counterweight to state power. Davies counters that \"any space may be subject to plural meanings or appropriations which do not necessarily come into conflict\".\n\nPrivate property has never been a universal doctrine, although since the end of the Cold War is it has become nearly so. Some societies, e.g., Native American bands, held land, if not all property, in common. When groups came into conflict, the victor often appropriated the loser's property. The rights paradigm tended to stabilize the distribution of property holdings on the presumption that title had been lawfully acquired.\n\nProperty does not exist in isolation, and so property rights too. Bryan claimed that property rights describe relations among people and not just relations between people and things Singer holds that the idea that owners have no legal obligations to others wrongly supposes that property rights hardly ever conflict with other legally protected interests. Singer continues implying that legal realists \"did not take the character and structure of social relations as an important independent factor in choosing the rules that govern market life\". Ethics of property rights begins with recognizing the vacuous nature of the notion of property.\n\nIntellectual property (IP) encompasses expressions of ideas, thoughts, codes and information. \"Intellectual property rights\" (IPR) treat IP as a kind of real property, subject to analogous protections, rather than as a reproducible good or service. Boldrin and Levine argue that \"government does not ordinarily enforce monopolies for producers of other goods. This is because it is widely recognized that monopoly creates many social costs. Intellectual monopoly is no different in this respect. The question we address is whether it also, creates social benefits commensurate with these social costs.\"\n\nInternational standards relating to Intellectual Property Rights are enforced through Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. In the US, IP other than copyrights is regulated by the United States Patent and Trademark Office.\n\nThe US Constitution included the power to protect intellectual property, empowering the Federal government \"to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries\". Boldrin and Levine see no value in such state-enforced monopolies stating, \"we ordinarily think of innovative monopoly as an oxymoron. Further they comment, 'intellectual property' \"is not like ordinary property at all, but constitutes a government grant of a costly and dangerous private monopoly over ideas. We show through theory and example that intellectual monopoly is not necessary for innovation and as a practical matter is damaging to growth, prosperity, and liberty\". Steelman defends patent monopolies, writing, \"Consider prescription drugs, for instance. Such drugs have benefited millions of people, improving or extending their lives. Patent protection enables drug companies to recoup their development costs because for a specific period of time they have the sole right to manufacture and distribute the products they have invented.\" The court cases by 39 pharmaceutical companies against South Africa's 1997 Medicines and Related Substances Control Amendment Act, which intended to provide affordable HIV medicines has been cited as a harmful effect of patents.\n\nOne attack on IPR is moral rather than utilitarian, claiming that inventions are mostly a collective, cumulative, path dependent, social creation and therefore, no one person or firm should be able to monopolize them even for a limited period. The opposing argument is that the benefits of innovation arrive sooner when patents encourage innovators and their investors to increase their commitments. Roderick Long, a libertarian philosopher, observes, \"Ethically, property rights of any kind have to be justified as extensions of the right of individuals to control their own lives. Thus any alleged property rights that conflict with this moral basis—like the \"right\" to own slaves—are invalidated. In my judgment, intellectual property rights also fail to pass this test. To enforce copyright laws and the like is to prevent people from making peaceful use of the information they possess. If you have acquired the information legitimately (say, by buying a book), then on what grounds can you be prevented from using it, reproducing it, trading it? Is this not a violation of the freedom of speech and press? It may be objected that the person who originated the information deserves ownership rights over it. But information is not a concrete thing an individual can control; it is a universal, existing in other people's minds and other people's property, and over these the originator has no legitimate sovereignty. You cannot own information without owning other people\". Machlup concluded that patents do not have the intended effect of enhancing innovation. Self-declared anarchist Proudhon, in his 1847 seminal work noted, \"Monopoly is the natural opposite of competition,\" and continued, \"Competition is the vital force which animates the collective being: to destroy it, if such a supposition were possible, would be to kill society\"\n\nMindeli and Pipiya hold that the knowledge economy is an economy of abundance because it relies on the \"infinite potential\" of knowledge and ideas rather than on the limited resources of natural resources, labor and capital. Allison envisioned an egalitarian distribution of knowledge. Kinsella claims that IPR create artificial scarcity and reduce equality. Bouckaert wrote, \"Natural scarcity is that which follows from the relationship between man and nature. Scarcity is natural when it is possible to conceive of it before any human, institutional, contractual arrangement. Artificial scarcity, on the other hand, is the outcome of such arrangements. Artificial scarcity can hardly serve as a justification for the legal framework that causes that scarcity. Such an argument would be completely circular. On the contrary, artificial scarcity itself needs a justification\" Corporations fund much IP creation and can acquire IP they do not create, to which Menon and others object. Andersen claims that IPR has increasingly become an instrument in eroding public domain.\n\nEthical and legal issues include: Patent infringement, copyright infringement, trademark infringement, patent and copyright misuse, submarine patents, biological patents, patent, copyright and trademark trolling, Employee raiding and monopolizing talent, Bioprospecting, biopiracy and industrial espionage, digital rights management.\n\nNotable IP copyright cases include Napster, Eldred v. Ashcroft and Air Pirates.\n\nWhile business ethics emerged as a field in the 1970s, international business ethics did not emerge until the late 1990s, looking back on the international developments of that decade. Many new practical issues arose out of the international context of business. Theoretical issues such as cultural relativity of ethical values receive more emphasis in this field. Other, older issues can be grouped here as well. Issues and subfields include:\n\nThe success of any business depends on its financial performance. Financial accounting helps the management to report and also, control the business performance.\n\nThe information regarding the financial performance of the company plays an important role in enabling people to take right decision about the company. Therefore, it becomes necessary to understand how to record based on accounting conventions and concepts ensure unambling and accurate records.\n\nForeign countries often use dumping as a competitive threat, selling products at prices lower than their normal value. This can lead to problems in domestic markets. It becomes difficult for these markets to compete with the pricing set by foreign markets. In 2009, the International Trade Commission has been researching anti-dumping laws. Dumping is often seen as an ethical issue, as larger companies are taking advantage of other less economically advanced companies.\n\nEthical issues often arise in business settings, whether through business transactions or forming new business relationships. An ethical issue in a business atmosphere may refer to any situation that requires business associates as individuals, or as a group (for example, a department or firm) to evaluate the morality of specific actions, and subsequently make a decision amongst the choices. Some ethical issues of particular concern in today's evolving business market include such topics as: honesty, integrity, professional behaviors, environmental issues, harassment, and fraud to name a few. It is integral to the success of an organization that ethics issues such as these be properly addressed and resolved. Businesses should strive to educate themselves on these issues, and ethical practices in general. From a 2009 National Business Ethics survey, it was found that types of employee-observed ethical misconduct included abusive behavior (at a rate of 22 percent), discrimination (at a rate of 14 percent), improper hiring practices (at a rate of 10 percent), and company resource abuse (at a rate of percent).\n\nThe ethical issues associated with honesty are widespread and vary greatly in business, from the misuse of company time or resources to lying with malicious intent, engaging in bribery, or creating conflicts of interest within an organization. Honesty encompasses wholly the truthful speech and actions of an individual. Some cultures and belief systems even consider honesty to be an essential pillar of life, such as Confucianism and Buddhism (referred to as sacca, part of the Four Noble Truths). Many employees lie in order to reach goals, avoid assignments or negative issues; however, sacrificing honesty in order to gain status or reap rewards poses potential problems for the overall ethical culture organization, and jeopardizes organizational goals in the long run. Using company time or resources for personal use is also, commonly viewed as unethical because it boils down to stealing from the company. The misuse of resources costs companies billions of dollars each year, averaging about 4.25 hours per week of stolen time alone, and employees' abuse of Internet services is another main concern. Bribery, on the other hand, is not only considered unethical is business practices, but it is also illegal. In accordance with this, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was established in 1977 to deter international businesses from giving or receiving unwarranted payments and gifts that were intended to influence the decisions of executives and political officials. Although, small payments known as facilitation payments will not be considered unlawful under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act if they are used towards regular public governance activities, such as permits or licenses.\n\nMany aspects in the work environment influence an individual's decision-making regarding ethics in the business world. When an individual is on the path of growing a company, many outside influences can pressure them to perform a certain way. The core of the person's performance in the workplace is rooted by their personal code of behavior. A person's personal code of ethics encompasses many different qualities such as integrity, honesty, communication, respect, compassion, and common goals. In addition, the ethical standards set forth by a person's superior(s) often translate into their own code of ethics. The company's policy is the 'umbrella' of ethics that play a major role in the personal development and decision-making processes that people make in respects to ethical behavior.\n\nThe ethics of a company and its' individuals are heavily influenced by the state of their country. If a country is heavily plagued with poverty, large corporations continuously grow, but smaller companies begin to wither, and are then forced to adapt and scavenge for any method of survival. As a result, the leadership of the company is often tempted to participate in unethical methods to obtain new business opportunities. Additionally, Social Media is arguably the most influential factor in ethics. The immediate access to so much information and the opinions of millions highly influence people's behaviors. The desire to confirm with what is portrayed as the norm often manipulates our idea of what is morally and ethically sound. Popular trends on social media and the instant gratification that is received from participating in such quickly distort people's ideas and decisions.\n\nPolitical economy and political philosophy have ethical implications, particularly regarding the distribution of economic benefits. John Rawls and Robert Nozick are both notable contributors. For example, Rawls has been interpreted as offering a critique of offshore outsourcing on social contract grounds, whereas Nozick's libertarian philosophy rejects the notion of any positive corporate social obligation.\n\n“Laws” are the written statutes, codes, and opinions of government organizations by which citizens, businesses, and persons present within a jurisdiction are expected to govern themselves or face legal sanction. Sanctions for violating the law can include (a) civil penalties, such as fines, pecuniary damages, and loss of licenses, property, rights, or privileges; (b) criminal penalties, such as fines, probation, imprisonment, or a combination thereof; or (c) both civil and criminal penalties.\n\nVery often it is held that business is not bound by any ethics other than abiding by the law. Milton Friedman is the pioneer of the view. He held that corporations have the obligation to make a profit within the framework of the legal system, nothing more. Friedman made it explicit that the duty of the business leaders is, \"to make as much money as possible while conforming to the basic rules of the society, both those embodied in the law and those embodied in ethical custom\". Ethics for Friedman is nothing more than abiding by 'customs' and 'laws'. The reduction of ethics to abidance to laws and customs however have drawn serious criticisms.\n\nCounter to Friedman's logic it is observed that legal procedures are technocratic, bureaucratic, rigid and obligatory where as ethical act is conscientious, voluntary choice beyond normativity. Law is retroactive. Crime precedes law. Law against a crime, to be passed, the crime must have happened. Laws are blind to the crimes undefined in it. Further, as per law, \"conduct is not criminal unless forbidden by law which gives advance warning that such conduct is criminal\". Also, law presumes the accused is innocent until proven guilty and that the state must establish the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. As per liberal laws followed in most of the democracies, until the government prosecutor proves the firm guilty with the limited resources available to her, the accused is considered to be innocent. Though the liberal premises of law is necessary to protect individuals from being persecuted by Government, it is not a sufficient mechanism to make firms morally accountable.\n\nAs part of more comprehensive compliance and ethics programs, many companies have formulated internal policies pertaining to the ethical conduct of employees. These policies can be simple exhortations in broad, highly generalized language (typically called a corporate ethics statement), or they can be more detailed policies, containing specific behavioural requirements (typically called corporate ethics codes). They are generally meant to identify the company's expectations of workers and to offer guidance on handling some of the more common ethical problems that might arise in the course of doing business. It is hoped that having such a policy will lead to greater ethical awareness, consistency in application, and the avoidance of ethical disasters.\n\nAn increasing number of companies also require employees to attend seminars regarding business conduct, which often include discussion of the company's policies, specific case studies, and legal requirements. Some companies even require their employees to sign agreements stating that they will abide by the company's rules of conduct.\n\nMany companies are assessing the environmental factors that can lead employees to engage in unethical conduct. A competitive business environment may call for unethical behaviour. Lying has become expected in fields such as trading. An example of this are the issues surrounding the unethical actions of the Salomon Brothers.\n\nNot everyone supports corporate policies that govern ethical conduct. Some claim that ethical problems are better dealt with by depending upon employees to use their own judgment.\n\nOthers believe that corporate ethics policies are primarily rooted in utilitarian concerns, and that they are mainly to limit the company's legal liability, or to curry public favour by giving the appearance of being a good corporate citizen. Ideally, the company will avoid a lawsuit because its employees will follow the rules. Should a lawsuit occur, the company can claim that the problem would not have arisen if the employee had only followed the code properly.\n\nSometimes there is disconnection between the company's code of ethics and the company's actual practices. Thus, whether or not such conduct is explicitly sanctioned by management, at worst, this makes the policy duplicitous, and, at best, it is merely a marketing tool.\n\nJones and Parker write, \"Most of what we read under the name business ethics is either sentimental common sense, or a set of excuses for being unpleasant.\" Many manuals are procedural form filling exercises unconcerned about the real ethical dilemmas. For instance, US Department of Commerce ethics program treats business ethics as a set of instructions and procedures to be followed by 'ethics officers'., some others claim being ethical is just for the sake of being ethical. Business ethicists may trivialize the subject, offering standard answers that do not reflect the situation's complexity.\n\nAuthor of 'Business Ethics,' Richard DeGeorge writes in regard to the importance of maintaining a corporate code, \"Corporate codes have a certain usefulness and there are several advantages to developing them. First, the very exercise of doing so in itself is worthwhile, especially if it forces a large number of people in the firm to think through, in a fresh way, their mission and the important obligations they as a group and as individuals have to the firm, to each other, to their clients and customers, and to society as a whole. Second, once adopted a code can be used to generate continuing discussion and possible modification to the code. Third, it could help to inculcate in new employees at all levels the perspective of responsibility, the need to think in moral terms about their actions, and the importance of developing the virtues appropriate to their position.\"\n\nFollowing a series of fraud, corruption, and abuse scandals that affected the United States defense industry in the mid-1980s, the Defense Industry Initiative (DII) was created to promote ethical business practices and ethics management in multiple industries. Subsequent to these scandals, many organizations began appointing ethics officers (also referred to as \"compliance\" officers). In 1991, the Ethics & Compliance Officer Association (ECOA)—originally the Ethics Officer Association (EOA)—was founded at the Center for Business Ethics at Bentley University as a professional association for ethics and compliance officers.\n\nThe 1991 passing of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations in 1991 was another factor in many companies appointing ethics/compliance officers. These guidelines, intended to assist judges with sentencing, set standards organizations must follow to obtain a reduction in sentence if they should be convicted of a federal offense.\n\nFollowing the high-profile corporate scandals of companies like Enron, WorldCom and Tyco between 2001 and 2004, and following the passage of the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, many small and mid-sized companies also began to appoint ethics officers.\n\nOften reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, ethics officers focus on uncovering or preventing unethical and illegal actions. This is accomplished by assessing the ethical implications of the company's activities, making recommendations on ethical policies, and disseminating information to employees.\n\nThe effectiveness of ethics officers is not clear. The establishment of an ethics officer position is likely to be insufficient in driving ethical business practices without a corporate culture that values ethical behavior. These values and behaviors should be consistently and systemically supported by those at the top of the organization. Employees with strong community involvement, loyalty to employers, superiors or owners, smart work practices, trust among the team members do inculcate a corporate culture\n\nMany corporate and business strategies now include sustainability. In addition to the traditional environmental 'green' sustainability concerns, business ethics practices have expanded to include social sustainability. Social sustainability focuses on issues related to human capital in the business supply chain, such as worker's rights, working conditions, child labor, and human trafficking. Incorporation of these considerations is increasing, as consumers and procurement officials demand documentation of a business' compliance with national and international initiatives, guidelines, and standards. Many industries have organizations dedicated to verifying ethical delivery of products from start to finish, such as the Kimberly Process, which aims to stop the flow of conflict diamonds into international markets, or the Fair Wear Foundation, dedicated to sustainability and fairness in the garment industry.\n\nAs mentioned, initiatives in sustainability encompass “green” topics, as well as social sustainability. There are however many different ways in which sustainability initiatives can be implemented in a company.\n\nImproving Operations: Perhaps the most evident manner in which an organization can implement sustainability initiatives is by improving its operations and manufacturing’s process so as to make it more aligned with environment, social, and governance issues. Johnson & Johnson incorporates policies from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, applying these principles not only for members of its supply chain but also internal operations. Walmart has made commitments to doubling its truck fleet efficiency by 2015 by replacing 2/3rds of its fleet with more fuel-efficient trucks, including hybrids. Dell has integrated alternative, recycled, and recyclable materials in its products and packaging design, improving energy efficiency and design for end-of-life and recyclability. Dell plans to reduce the energy intensity of its product portfolio by 80% by 2020.\n\nBoard Leadership: The board of a company can decide to lower executive compensation by a given percentage, and give the percentage of compensation to a specific cause. This is an effort which can only be implemented from the top, as it will affect the compensation of all executives in the company. In Alcoa, an aluminum company based in the USA, “1/5th of executive cash compensation is tied to safety, diversity, and environmental stewardship, which includes greenhouse gas emission reductions and energy efficiency” (Best Practices). This is not usually the case for most companies, where we see the board take a uniform step towards environment, social, and governance issues. This is only the case for companies that are directly linked to utilities, energy, or material industries, something which Alcoa as an aluminum company, falls in line with. Instead, formal committees focused on environment, social, and governance issues are more usually seen in governance committees and audit committees, rather than the board of directors. “According to research analysis done by Pearl Meyer in support of the NACD 2017 Director Compensation Report shows that among 1,400 public companies reviewed, only slightly more than five percent of boards have a designated committee to address ESG issues.” (How compensation can).\n\nManagement Accountability: Similar to board leadership, creating steering committees and other types of committees specialized for sustainability, senior executives are identified who are held accountable for meeting and constantly improving sustainability goals.\n\nExecutive compensation: Introducing bonus schemes that reward executives for meeting non-financial performance goals including safety targets, greenhouse gas emissions, reduction targets, and goals engaging stakeholders to help shape the companies public policy positions. Companies such as Exelon have implemented policies like this.\n\nStakeholder Engagement: Other companies will keep sustainability within its strategy and goals, presenting findings at shareholder meetings, and actively tracking metrics on sustainability. Companies such as PepsiCo, Heineken, and FIFCO take steps in this direction to implement sustainability initiatives. (Best Practices). Companies such as Coca-Cola have actively tried improve their efficiency of water usage, hiring 3rd party auditors to evaluate their water management approach. FIFCO has also led successfully led water-management initiatives.\n\nEmployee Engagement: Implementation of sustainability projects through directly appealing to employees (typically through the human resource department) is another option for companies to implement sustainability. This involves integrating sustainability into the company culture, with hiring practices and employee training. General Electric is a company that is taking the lead in implementing initiatives in this manner. Bank of America directly engaged employees by implement LEED (leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certified buildings, with a fifth of its building meeting these certifications.\n\nSupply chain management: Establishing requirements for not only internal operations but also first-tier suppliers as well as second-tier suppliers to help drive environmental and social expectations further down the supply chain. Companies such as Starbucks, FIFCO and Ford Motor Company have implemented requirements that suppliers must meet to win their business. Starbucks has led efforts in engaging suppliers and local communities where they operate to accelerate investment in sustainable farming. Starbucks set a goal of ethically sourcing 100% of its coffee beans by 2015.\n\nReleasing Studies, Insights, Best Practices and Findings: By revealing decision making data about how sustainability was reached, companies are giving away insights that can help others across the industry and beyond make more sustainable decisions. Nike launched its “making app” in 2013 which released data about the sustainability in the materials it was using. This ultimately allows other companies to make more sustainable design decisions and create lower impact products.\n\nAs an academic discipline, business ethics emerged in the 1970s. Since no academic business ethics journals or conferences existed, researchers published in general management journals, and attended general conferences. Over time, specialized peer-reviewed journals appeared, and more researchers entered the field. Corporate scandals in the earlier 2000s increased the field's popularity. As of 2009, sixteen academic journals devoted to various business ethics issues existed, with Journal of Business Ethics and Business Ethics Quarterly considered the leaders.\n\nThe International Business Development Institute is a global non-profit organization that represents 217 nations and all 50 United States. It offers a Charter in Business Development that focuses on ethical business practices and standards. The Charter is directed by Harvard, MIT, and Fulbright Scholars, and it includes graduate-level coursework in economics, politics, marketing, management, technology, and legal aspects of business development as it pertains to business ethics. IBDI also oversees the International Business Development Institute of Asia which provides individuals living in 20 Asian nations the opportunity to earn the Charter.\n\nIn Sharia law, followed by many Muslims, banking specifically prohibits charging interest on loans. Traditional Confucian thought discourages profit-seeking. Christianity offers the Golden Rule command, \"Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.\"\nAccording to the article \"Theory of the real economy\", there is a more narrow point of view from the Christianity faith towards the relationship between ethics and religious traditions. This article stresses about how Christianity is capable of establishing reliable boundaries for financial institutions. One criticism comes from Pope Benedict by describing the \"damaging effects of the real economy of badly managed and largely speculative financial dealing.\" It is mentioned that Christianity has the potential to transform the nature of finance and investment but only if theologians and ethicist provide more evidence of what is real in the economic life. Business ethics receives an extensive treatment in Jewish thought and Rabbinic literature, both from an ethical (\"Mussar\") and a legal (\"Halakha\") perspective; see article \"Jewish business ethics\" for further discussion.\nAccording to the article \"Indian Philosophy and Business Ethics: A Review\", by Chandrani Chattopadyay, Hindus follow \"Dharma\" as Business Ethics and unethical business practices are termed \"Adharma\". Business men are supposed to maintain steady-mindedness, self-purification, non-violence, concentration, charity and control over senses. Books like Bhagavat Gita and Arthashastra contribute a lot towards conduct of ethical business.\n\nBusiness ethics is part of the philosophy of economics, the branch of philosophy that deals with the philosophical, political, and ethical underpinnings of business and economics. Business ethics operates on the premise, for example, that the ethical operation of a private business is possible—those who dispute that premise, such as libertarian socialists, (who contend that \"business ethics\" is an oxymoron) do so by definition outside of the domain of business ethics proper.\n\nThe philosophy of economics also deals with questions such as what, if any, are the social responsibilities of a business; business management theory; theories of individualism vs. collectivism; free will among participants in the marketplace; the role of self interest; invisible hand theories; the requirements of social justice; and natural rights, especially property rights, in relation to the business enterprise.\n\nBusiness ethics is also related to political economy, which is economic analysis from political and historical perspectives. Political economy deals with the distributive consequences of economic actions.\n\n\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tirukku%E1%B9%9Ba%E1%B8%B7\n\n"}
{"id": "8285473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8285473", "title": "Cell fate determination", "text": "Cell fate determination\n\nWithin the field of developmental biology one goal is to understand how a particular cell (or embryo) develops into the final cell type (or organism), essentially how a cell's fate is determined. Within an embryo, 4 processes play out at the cellular and tissue level to essentially create the final organism. These processes are cell proliferation, cell specialization, cell interaction and cell movement. Each cell in the embryo receives and gives cues to its neighboring cells and retains a cell memory of its own cell proliferation history. Almost all animals undergo a similar sequence of events during embryogenesis and have, at least at this developmental stage, the three germ layers and undergo gastrulation. While embryogenesis has been studied for more than a century, it was only recently (the past 15 years or so) that scientists discovered that a basic set of the same proteins and mRNAs are involved in all of embryogenesis. This is one of the reasons that model systems such as the fly (\"Drosophila melanogaster\"), the mouse (Muridae), and the leech (\"Helobdella\"), can all be used to study embryogenesis and developmental biology relevant to other animals, including humans. The fate map of the nematode (\"Caenorhabditis)\" can be analyzed down to the cellular level. This is due no cell mixing during development. What continues to be discovered and investigated is how the basic set of proteins (and mRNAs) are expressed differentially between cells types, temporally and spatially; and whether this is responsible for the vast diversity of organisms produced. This leads to one of the key questions of developmental biology of how is cell fate determined.\n\nThe development of new molecular tools including GFP, and major advances in imaging technology including fluorescence microscopy, have made possible the mapping of the cell lineage of \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" including its embryo. This technique of fate mapping is used to study cells as they differentiate into their final cell fates. Merely observing a cell as it becomes differentiated during embryogenesis provides no indication of the mechanisms that drive the specification. Therefore, the addition of molecular manipulation techniques, including gene and protein knock downs, knock outs and overexpression, along with live cell imaging techniques has been transformational in understanding what mechanisms are involved with cell fate determination. Transplantation experiments are commonly used in conjunction with the genetic manipulation and lineage tracing. Transplantation experiments are the only way to determine what state the cell is in on its way to being differentiated.\n\nFor a number of cell cleavages (the specific number depends on the type of organism) all the cells of an embryo will be morphologically and developmentally equivalent. This means, each cell has the same development potential and all cells are essentially interchangeable, thus establishing an equivalence group. The developmental equivalence of these cells is usually established via transplantation and cell ablation experiments.\n\nThe determination of a cell to a particular fate can be broken down into two states where the cell can be specified (committed) or determined. In the state of being committed or specified, the cell type is not yet determined and any bias the cell has toward a certain fate can be reversed or transformed to another fate. If a cell is in a determined state, the cell's fate cannot be reversed or transformed. In general, this means that a cell determined to differentiate into a brain cell cannot be transformed into a skin cell. Determination is followed by differentiation, the actual changes in biochemistry, structure, and function that result in specific cell types. Differentiation often involves a change in appearance as well as function.\n\nThere are three general ways a cell can become specified for a particular fate; they are autonomous specification, conditional specification and syncytial specification.\n\nThis type of specification results from cell-intrinsic properties; it gives rise to mosaic development. The cell-intrinsic properties arise from a cleavage of a cell with asymmetrically expressed maternal cytoplasmic determinants (proteins, small regulatory RNAs and mRNA). Thus, the fate of the cell depends on factors secreted into its cytoplasm during cleavage. Autonomous specification was demonstrated in 1887 by a French medical student, Laurent Chabry, working on tunicate embryos. This asymmetric cell division usually occurs early in embryogenesis.\n\nPositive feedback can create asymmetry from homogeneity. In cases where the external or stimuli that would cause asymmetry are very weak or disorganized, through positive feedback the system can spontaneously pattern itself. Once the feedback has begun, any small initial signaling is magnified and thus produces an effective patterning mechanism. This is normally what occurs in the case of lateral inhibition in which neighboring cells induce specification via inhibitory or inducing signals (see Notch signaling). This kind of positive feedback at the single cell level and tissue level is responsible for symmetry breaking, which is an all-or-none process whereas once the symmetry is broken, the cells involved become very different. Symmetry breaking leads to a bistable or multistable system where the cell or cells involved are determined for different cell fates. The determined cells continue on their particular fate even after the initial stimulatory/inhibitory signal is gone, giving the cells a memory of the signal.\n\nIn contrast to the autonomous specification, this type of specification is a cell-extrinsic process that relies on cues and interactions between cells or from concentration-gradients of morphogens. Inductive interactions between neighboring cells is the most common mode of tissue patterning. In this mechanism, one or two cells from a group of cells with the same developmental potential are exposed to a signal (morphogen) from outside the group. Only the cells exposed to the signal are induced to follow a different developmental pathway, leaving the rest of the equivalence group unchanged.\nAnother mechanism that determines the cell fate is regional determination (see Regional specification). As implied by the name, this specification occurs based on where within the embryo the cell is positioned, it is also known as positional value. This was first observed when mesoderm was taken from the prospective thigh region of a chick embryo, was grafted onto the wing region and did not transform to wing tissue, but instead into toe tissue.\n\nThis type of a specification is a hybrid of the autonomous and conditional that occurs in insects. This method involves the action of morphogen gradients within the syncytium. As there are no cell boundaries in the syncytium, these morphogens can influence nuclei in a concentration-dependent manner.\n\nPlant embryogenesis, see Lau S \"et al.\", Cell-cell communication in Arabidopsis early embryogenesis. Eur J Cell Biol 2010, 89:225-230.\n\nFor a good review of the part of the history of morphogen signaling and development see Briscoe J, Making a grade: Sonic Hedgehog signalling and the control of neural cell fate.\n\nIn systems biology, cell-fate determination is predicted to exhibit certain dynamics, such as attractor-convergence (the attractor can be an equilibrium point, limit cycle or strange attractor) or oscillatory.\n"}
{"id": "19660756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19660756", "title": "Constantin Antoniade", "text": "Constantin Antoniade\n\nConstantin Antoniade (1880–1954) was a Romanian jurist, writer, historian, philosopher and diplomat of Ethnic Greek heritage.\n\nAs a historian he was a concerned mainly with the Renaissance. He also translated works of John Ruskin and Thomas Carlyle into Romanian.\n\nHe participated in the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 as juridical expert. As a diplomat he was Romanian representative to the League of Nations from 1928 to 1936. After the Communist regime took power in Romania, Constantin Antoniade received the authorization from Iuliu Maniu and Dinu Brătianu to make contacts in the western countries on behalf of the Romanian Liberal Party and the National Peasants' Party.\n\nIn 1948, Constantin Antoniade served as member of the Directing Committee of the Association for the Help of Romanian Refugees CAROMAN, created in Paris founded by Nicholas Caranfil as a representative of the Free Romanian Red Cross. The other members of the committee were Raoul Bossy, Mihai Răuț and Dan Geblescu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23674646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23674646", "title": "David Pears", "text": "David Pears\n\nDavid Pears, FBA (8 August 1921 – 1 July 2009) was a British philosopher renowned for his work on Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nAn Old Boy of Westminster School, he was in the Royal Artillery during World War II, and was seriously injured in a practice gas attack. After leaving the army he studied classics at Balliol College, Oxford, and was then for many years a Student (Fellow) of Christ Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35845038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35845038", "title": "Erkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten", "text": "Erkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten\n\nErkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten () is a 1936 book by the Norwegian philosopher Arne Næss. The work was influential and anticipated many themes familiar in subsequent analytic philosophy.\n\n\"Erkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten\" was published in 1936 by Norske Videnskaps-Akademi (the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters).\n\n\"Erkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten\" received a positive review from the psychologist Egon Brunswik in \"Philosophy of Science\". Brunswik wrote that psychology was gaining increased importance within philosophy and the sciences by becoming its \"preferred center of organization\", and that Næss's book was part of this trend. He believed that Næss presented a \"new and modernistic\" version of psychology that was more promising than the \"psychologism\" of the late 19th century, maintaining that Næss emphasized \"objective psychology\" over \"subjectivistic\" ideas. He credited Næss with an impressive \"revolutionary keenness\" in the way he questioned \"the absolute character of the antagonism between the empirical and the logical, and, within the latter, between true and false.\" He concluded that Næss's book was an \"interesting and promising first publication.\"\n\nThe book was also reviewed in \"Theoria. A Swedish Journal of Philosophy and Psychology\", and Næss replied to the review.\n\nThe philosopher Alastair Hannay, writing in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" (1995; second edition 2005), states that \"Erkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten\" is a seminal work, in which Næss anticipates many themes familiar in post-war analytic philosophy. The historian and philosopher of science Friedrich Stadler, writing in \"The Vienna Circle in the Nordic Countries\" (2010), commented that it was regrettable that \"Erkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten\" was not included in Næss's \"Selected Papers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12362175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12362175", "title": "Erotetics", "text": "Erotetics\n\nErotetics is a part of logic, devoted to logical analysis of questions.\n\nThe idea was originally developed by Richard Whately, whose work was popularized by Eugeniu Sperantia, and then such philosophers like Arthur Prior and Nuel D. Belnap, Jr. were interested by this subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "276210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276210", "title": "Euchites", "text": "Euchites\n\nThe Euchites or Messalians were a Christian sect from Mesopotamia that spread to Asia Minor and Thrace. The name 'Messalian' comes from the Syriac , \"mṣallyānā\", meaning 'one who prays'. The Greek translation is , \"euchitēs\", meaning the same.\n\nThe sect's teaching asserted that: \n\nMessalians taught that once a person experienced the essence of God they were freed from moral obligations or ecclesiastical discipline. They had male and female teachers whom they honored more than the clergy, the \"perfecti\".The condemnation of the sect by St John Damascene and Timothy, priest of Constantinople, expressed the view that the sect espoused a sort of mystical materialism. Their critics also accused them of incest, cannibalism and \"debauchery\" (in Armenia their name came to mean \"filthy\") but scholars reject these claims.\n\nThey are first mentioned in the 370s by Ephrem the Syrian, and Epiphanius, and Jerome, and are also mentioned by Archbishop Atticus, Theodotus of Antioch, and Archbishop Sisinnius. They were first condemned as heretical in a synod of 383 AD (Side, Pamphylia), whose acta was referred to in the works by Photius. They continued to exist for several centuries, influencing the Bogomils of Bulgaria, whose name appears to be a translation of \"Messalian\" and, thereby, the Bosnian Church, the Patarenes and Catharism. By the 12th century the sect had reached Bohemia and Germany and, by a resolution of the Council of Trier (1231), was condemned as heretical.\n\nMichael Psellos, a Byzantine monk, accused Bogomils and Euchites for orgiastic practices such as incest and homosexuality. Furthermore, he argued that children born from these promiscuous activities were brought before a Satanic assembly after eight days, offered up to Satan and then cannibalistically eaten. This cannibalistic act was supposedly a parody of baptism. Similar accusations have a long history, and it is debated between historians if they are truthful of any degree. Euthymios Zigabenos is another source for these accusations. The idea of these unholy acts can be tracked back to alleged practices of certain Gnostic sects. A similar literary tradition regarding heresies seems to have been brought into existence already during reign of Seleucid ruler Antiochus IV Epiphanes.\n\nModern scholarship has questioned, though, whether a coherent heretical movement existed behind these condemnations, and has emphasised instead the friction in the Eastern Church caused by Messalianism's 'ascetical practices and imagistic language far more characteristic of Syriac Christianity than of the imperial Church centred on Constantinople'.\n\n"}
{"id": "4030560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4030560", "title": "Flag protocol", "text": "Flag protocol\n\nA flag protocol defines the proper placement, handling, use, and disposal of flags. Some countries have added certain protocols into their legal system while others prefer to have \"guidelines\" without civil or criminal consequences attached.\nGeneral guidelines are accepted practically universally.\n\nThe flag of honor, which is the nation's flag in most cases, is flown on the center mast if possible. It is also correct to fly the flag on its own right. To an observer it would be on the far left. If more than three flags are used, the proper position is as far left from the point of view of an observer. An additional flag may be placed on the right side, but is not necessary.\n\nWhen two poles are crossed, the position of honor is the flag that ends on the left side from the point of view of an observer (the pole will therefore end on the right).\n\nIn a semicircle, the position of honor is the center. If a full circle is used outside an entrance to an arena or stadium, the position of honor is directly over the entrance. If used to line the walls of the arena, the flag should be placed directly opposite the entrance.\n\nWhen flown horizontally, as from a flag pole, the flag should be oriented so that the canton is closest to the top of the pole. If hung against a wall, the canton should be placed in the upper-left corner from the point of view of the observer.\n\nWhen hung vertically, flags should be rotated so the canton is again closest to the top of the pole. If the flag is displayed against a wall, the canton should again appear in the upper-left corner, which requires that the flag be both rotated and \"flipped\" from its horizontal orientation.\n\nOn a vehicle the flag should be put on a window or affixed securely to the front of the chassis, on the nearside of the vehicle, i.e. the one opposite the driver. (In other words, in countries that drive on the right hand side of the road, a flag is on the right of the vehicle.) On a vehicle where a visiting Head of State or Government is sharing a car with the host Head of State or Government, the host's flag takes the nearside position, the guest's flag on the offside.\n\nWhen placed with a podium or at a place of worship, the flag should hang directly behind or on a pole to the right of the speaker, from the point of view of the flag.\n\nWhen carried in single file, the flag of honor leads.\n\nWhen flags of many nations are flown the flag of the hosting country should be placed on the right with the rest following in alphabetical order in the language of the host country. The flag of any sovereign nation should not be displayed over that of another, except when the nations are at war with each other.\n\nSometimes in a ceremonial flypast, a flag is flown from a weighted rope dangling from beneath a helicopter.\n\nMembers of the royal family and the nobility each have their own flags. The Standard of the Sultan must be flown only over Istana Nurul Iman. The same goes for the Crown Prince (Deputy Sultan)'s flag, but other non-royal title holders fly the national flag. As in many other countries, Bruneians consider it taboo for the flag to touch the ground.\n\nWhen a French vessel meets another French ship, it is to lower and raise its ensign as a greeting. A merchant ship meeting a ship of the French Navy will greet three times.\n\nThe flag of India has a very distinctive protocol and is governed by the Flag Code of India, 2002 the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950; and the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971.\n\nInsults to the national flag, are punishable by law with imprisonment up to three years, or a fine, or both.\n\nOfficial regulation states that the flag must never touch the ground or water, or be used as a drapery in any form.\n\nDisposal of damaged flags is also covered by the flag code. Damaged or soiled flags may not be cast aside or disrespectfully destroyed; they have to be destroyed as a whole in private, preferably by burning or by any other method consistent with the dignity of the flag.\n\nBecause the flag of Saudi Arabia bears the Shahada, it is never flown at half-mast.\n\nThe Department for Communities and Local Government in November 2012 released the \"Plain English guide to flying flags\" for England, a \"summary of the new, more liberalised, controls over flag flying that were introduced on 12 October 2012\". In England, the statute governing the flying of flags are The Town and Country Planning (Control of Advertisements) (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2007 and 2012.\n\nWhen displayed either horizontally or vertically against a wall, the union should be uppermost and to the flag's own right, that is, to the observer's left. When displayed in a window, the flag should be displayed in the same way, with the union or blue field to the left of the observer in the street.\n\nThe flag should be to the speaker's right (also described as the flag's own right or audience's left), that is to the left of the podium or pulpit as the speaker is facing the audience. Old guidelines had a distinction whether the flag was at the level of the speaker on a stage or the level of the audience. That distinction has been eliminated and the rule simplified.\n\nWhen the flag is displayed at half-staff, it is customary to raise it briskly to the top the flag pole, then lower it slowly to the half-way mark. This is also done when lowering the flag. The flag is only displayed at half-staff by presidential decree or act of Congress, except on two days: On Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, the flag can be displayed at half-staff until sundown.; on Memorial Day, the flag is flown at half-staff until noon, and then raised to full staff for the remainder of the day.\n\nWhen displaying the US flag, it is customary for it to be above a state's flag when flown on the same pole. When flown separately, a state's flag may be at the same height as the US flag, with the US flag to the left of the state flag, from the perspective of the viewer. When flown with several state flags, the US flag should be at the same height and to the flag's own right (viewer's left), or at the center of and higher than a grouping of state flags. The idea that only the Texas and Hawaii flags—having been the national flags of the Republic of Texas and the Kingdom of Hawaii—may be flown at an equal height to the US flag is a legend. In fact, \"any\" other flag may be flown at an equal height to the US flag provided the US flag is at the leftmost staff from the perspective of the viewer.\n\nThe flag of the United States is used to drape the coffins of deceased veterans of the armed forces. When it is so used, the Union (white stars on blue background) is placed above the deceased's left shoulder.\n\nAccording to United States Code found in Title 4, Chapter 1 pertaining to patriotic customs and observances:\nThese laws were supplemented by executive orders and presidential proclamations.\n\nNational flags cannot be adulterated on any way, nor be used with other intention than as national symbols as stated by law. It is also prohibited for buildings to raise flags other than national flags. The public loyalty oath to the flag must be taken once by every citizen and is celebrated on 19 June at learning institutes. Disposal of damaged flags is done by the Uruguayan Army. Each year on 24 September damaged flags are burnt as an official act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11692351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11692351", "title": "GROW", "text": "GROW\n\nGROW is a peer support and mutual-aid organization for recovery from, and prevention of, serious mental illness. GROW was founded in Sydney, Australia in 1957 by Father Cornelius B. \"Con\" Keogh, a Roman Catholic priest, and psychiatric patients who sought help with their mental illness in Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). Consequently, GROW adapted many of AA's principles and practices. As the organization matured, GROW members learned of Recovery International, an organization also created to help people with serious mental illness, and integrated pieces of its will-training methods. As of 2005 there were more than 800 GROW groups active worldwide. GROW groups are open to anyone who would like to join, though they specifically seek out those who have a history of psychiatric hospitalization or are socioeconomically disadvantaged. Despite the capitalization, GROW is not an acronym. Much of GROW's initial development was made possible with support from Orval Hobart Mowrer, Reuben F. Scarf, W. Clement Stone and Lions Clubs International.\n\nGROW's literature includes the Twelve Stages of Decline, which indicate that emotional illness begins with self-centeredness, and the Twelve Steps of Personal Growth, a blend of AA's Twelve Steps and will-training methods from Recovery International. GROW members view recovery as an ongoing life process rather than an outcome and are expected to continue following the Steps after completing them in order to maintain their mental health. \nThe Twelve Stages of Decline\n\nThe Twelve Steps of Recovery and Personal Growth\nGROW suggests atheists and agnostics use \"We became inattentive to objective natural order in our lives\" and \"We trusted in a health-giving power in our lives as a whole\" for the Second Stage of Decline and Third Step of Personal Growth, respectively.\n\nStatistical evaluations of interviews with GROW members found they identified self-reliance, industriousness, peer support, and gaining a sense of personal value or self-esteem as the essential ingredients of recovery. Similar evaluations of GROW's literature revealed thirteen core principles of GROW's program. They are reproduced in the list below by order of relevance, with a quote from GROW's literature, explaining the principle.\n\n\nParticipation in GROW has been shown to decrease the number of hospitalizations per member as well as the duration of hospitalizations when they occur. Members report an increased sense of security and self-esteem, and decreased anxiety. A longitudinal study of GROW membership found time involved in the program correlated with increased autonomy, environmental mastery, personal growth, self-acceptance and social skills. Women in particular experience positive identity transformation, build friendships and find a sense of community in GROW groups.\n\n\"The Program of Growth to Maturity\", generally referred to as the 'Blue Book', is the principal literature used in GROW groups. The book is divided into three sections based on the developmental stages of members: 'Beginning Growers', 'Progressing Growers' and 'Seasoned Growers'. Additionally, there are three related books written by Cornelius B. Keogh, and one by Anne Waters, used in conjunction with the \"Blue Book\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5516877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5516877", "title": "Gentleness", "text": "Gentleness\n\nGentleness is the value and quality of one's character. Being gentle has a long history in many, but not all cultures. Gentleness is considered to play a very important role in life.\n\nThe quality of gentleness is colloquially understood to be that of kindness, consideration and amiability. Aristotle used it in a technical sense as the virtue that strikes the mean with regard to anger: being too quick to anger is a vice, but so is being detached in a situation where anger is appropriate; justified and properly focused anger is named mildness or gentleness. \n\nGentleness is a strong hand with a soft touch. It is a tender, compassionate approach toward others' weaknesses and limitations. A gentle person still speaks truth, sometimes even painful truth, but in doing so guards their tone so the truth can be well received. \"When my daughter was young, she used to love to squeeze my hand as hard as she could, trying to make it hurt. She could squeeze with all her might, but it never hurt. She didn't need to be gentle because she lacked the power to cause me any pain. Then, just for fun, I'd give her hand a tight little squeeze until she yelped.\nIt's the strong hand, not the weak one, that must learn to be gentle.\"\n\nA second important usage was common in medieval times, associated with higher social classes: hence the derivation of the terms gentleman, gentlewoman and gentry. The broadening of gentle behavior from a literal sense of the gentry to the metaphorical \"like a gentleman\" applicable to any person was a later development.\n"}
{"id": "43069535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43069535", "title": "György Lukács", "text": "György Lukács\n\nGyörgy Lukács (also Georg Lukács; born György Bernát Löwinger; 13 April 1885 – 4 June 1971) was a Hungarian Marxist philosopher, aesthetician, literary historian, and critic. He was one of the founders of Western Marxism, an interpretive tradition that departed from the Marxist ideological orthodoxy of the Soviet Union. He developed the theory of reification, and contributed to Marxist theory with developments of Karl Marx's theory of class consciousness. He was also a philosopher of Leninism. He ideologically developed and organised Lenin's pragmatic revolutionary practices into the formal philosophy of vanguard-party revolution.\n\nAs a literary critic Lukács was especially influential, because of his theoretical developments of realism and of the novel as a literary genre. In 1919, he was appointed the Hungarian Minister of Culture of the government of the short-lived Hungarian Soviet Republic (March–August 1919).\n\nLukács has been described as the preeminent Marxist intellectual of the Stalinist era, though assessing his legacy can be difficult as Lukács seemed both to support Stalinism as the embodiment of Marxist thought, and yet also to champion a return to pre-Stalinist Marxism.\n\nGeorg Lukács was born Löwinger György Bernát, in Budapest, Austria-Hungary, to the investment banker József Löwinger (later Szegedi Lukács József; 1855–1928) and his wife Adele Wertheimer (Wertheimer Adél; 1860–1917), who were a wealthy Jewish family. He had a brother and sister.\n\nJózsef Löwinger was knighted by the empire and received a baronial title, making Georg Lukács a baron as well, through inheritance. As an Austro-Hungarian subject, the full names of Georg Lukács were the German Baron \"Georg Bernhard Lukács von Szegedin\", and the Hungarian \"Szegedi Lukács György Bernát\"; as a writer, he published under the names \"Georg Lukács\" and \"György Lukács\". Georg Lukács participated in intellectual circles in Budapest, Berlin, Florence and Heidelberg. He received his doctorate of jurisprudence in 1906 from the Royal Hungarian University of Kolozsvár. In 1909, he completed his doctorate of philosophy at the University of Budapest under the direction of Zsolt Beöthy.\n\nWhilst at university in Budapest, Lukács was part of socialist intellectual circles through which he met Ervin Szabó, an anarcho-syndicalist who introduced him to the works of Georges Sorel (1847–1922), the French proponent of revolutionary syndicalism. In that period, Lukács's intellectual perspectives were modernist and anti-positivist. From 1904 to 1908, he was part of a theatre troupe that produced modernist, psychologically realistic plays by Henrik Ibsen, August Strindberg, and Gerhart Hauptmann.\n\nLukács spent much time in Germany, and studied at the University of Berlin from 1906 to 1907, during which time he made the acquaintance of the philosopher Georg Simmel. Later, in 1913, whilst in Heidelberg he befriended Max Weber, Emil Lask, Ernst Bloch, and Stefan George. The idealist system to which Lukács subscribed at this time was intellectually indebted to Neo-Kantianism (then the dominant philosophy in German universities) and to Plato, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Søren Kierkegaard, Wilhelm Dilthey, and Fyodor Dostoyevsky. In that period, he published \"Soul and Form\" (\"Die Seele und die Formen\", Berlin, 1911; tr. 1974) and \"The Theory of the Novel\" (1916/1920; tr. 1971).\n\nAfter the beginning of the First World War, Lukács was exempted from military service. In 1914, he married the Russian political activist Jelena Grabenko.\n\nIn 1915, Lukács returned to Budapest, where he was the leader of the Sunday Circle, an intellectual salon. Its concerns were the cultural themes that arose from the existential works of Dostoyevsky, which thematically aligned with Lukács's interests in his last years at Heidelberg. As a salon, the Sunday Circle sponsored cultural events whose participants included literary and musical avant-garde figures, such as Karl Mannheim, the composer Béla Bartók, Béla Balázs, Arnold Hauser, Zoltán Kodály and Karl Polanyi; some of them also attended the weekly salons. In 1918, the last year of the First World War (1914–18), the Sunday Circle became divided. They dissolved the salon because of their divergent politics; several of the leading members accompanied Lukács into the Communist Party of Hungary.\n\nIn light of the First World War and the Russian Revolution of 1917, Lukács rethought his ideas. He became a committed Marxist in this period and joined the fledgling Communist Party of Hungary in 1918. As part of the government of the short-lived Hungarian Soviet Republic, Lukács was made People's Commissar for Education and Culture (he was deputy to the Commissar for Education Zsigmond Kunfi).\nDuring the Hungarian Soviet Republic, Lukács was a theoretician of the Hungarian version of the red terror. In an article in the Népszava, 15 April 1919, he wrote that \"The possession of the power of the state is also a moment for the destruction of the oppressing classes. A moment, we have to use\". Lukács later became a commissar of the Fifth Division of the Hungarian Red Army, in which capacity he ordered the execution of eight of his own soldiers in Poroszlo, in May 1919, which he later admitted in an interview.\n\nAfter the Hungarian Soviet Republic was defeated, Lukács was ordered by Kun to remain behind with Ottó Korvin, when the rest of the leadership evacuated. Lukács and Korvin's mission was to clandestinely reorganize the communist movement, but this proved to be impossible. Lukács went into hiding, with the help of photographer Olga Máté. After Korvin's capture in 1919, Lukács fled from Hungary to Vienna. He was arrested but was saved from extradition due to a group of writers including Thomas and Heinrich Mann. Thomas Mann later based the character Naphta on Lukács in his novel \"The Magic Mountain\".\n\nHe married his second wife, Gertrúd Bortstieber in 1919 in Vienna.\n\nDuring his time in Vienna in the 1920s, Lukács befriended other Left Communists who were working or in exile there, including Victor Serge, Adolf Joffe and Antonio Gramsci. Around that time, Lukács began to develop Leninist ideas in the field of philosophy. His major works in this period were the essays collected in his \"magnum opus\" \"History and Class Consciousness\" (\"Geschichte und Klassenbewußtsein\", Berlin, 1923). Although these essays display signs of what Vladimir Lenin referred to as \"ultra-leftism\", they provided Leninism with a substantive philosophical basis. In July 1924, Grigory Zinoviev attacked this book along with the work of Karl Korsch at the Fifth Comintern Congress.\n\nIn 1924, shortly after Lenin's death, Lukács published in Vienna the short study \"Lenin: A Study in the Unity of His Thought\" (\"Lenin: Studie über den Zusammenhang seiner Gedanken\"). In 1925, he published a critical review of Nikolai Bukharin's manual of historical materialism.\n\nAs a Hungarian exile, he remained active on the left wing of Hungarian Communist Party, and was opposed to the Moscow-backed programme of Béla Kun. His 'Blum theses' of 1928 called for the overthrow of the counter-revolutionary regime of Admiral Horthy in Hungary by a strategy similar to the Popular Fronts that arose in the 1930s. He advocated a 'democratic dictatorship' of the proletariat and peasantry as a transitional stage leading to the dictatorship of the proletariat. After Lukács's strategy was condemned by the Comintern, he retreated from active politics into theoretical work.\n\nLukács left Vienna in 1929 first for Berlin, then for Budapest.\n\nIn 1930, while residing in Budapest, Lukács was summoned to Moscow. This coincided with the signing of a Viennese police order for his expulsion. Leaving their children to attend their studies, Lukács and his wife ventured to Moscow in March 1930. Soon after his arrival, Lukács was \"prevented\" from leaving and assigned to work alongside David Riazanov (\"in the basement\") at the Marx–Engels Institute. \n\nLukács returned to Berlin in 1931 and in 1933 he once again left Berlin for Moscow to attend the Institute of Philosophy of the Russian Academy of Sciences. During this time, Lukács first came into contact with the works of Young Marx.\n\nLukács and his wife were not permitted to leave the Soviet Union until after the Second World War. During Stalin's Great Purge, Lukacs was sent to internal exile in Tashkent for a time, where he and Johannes Becher became friends. Lukács survived the purges of the \"Great Terror,\" which claimed the lives of an estimated 80% of the Hungarian émigrés in the Soviet Union. There is much debate among historians concerning the extent to which Lukács accepted Stalinism.\n\nIn 1945, Lukács and his wife returned to Hungary. As a member of the Hungarian Communist Party, he took part in establishing the new Hungarian government. From 1945 Lukács was a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Between 1945 and 1946 he strongly criticised non-communist philosophers and writers. Lukács has been accused of playing an \"administrative\" (legal-bureaucratic) role in the removal of independent and non-communist intellectuals such as Béla Hamvas, István Bibó, Lajos Prohászka, and Károly Kerényi from Hungarian academic life. Between 1946 and 1953, many non-communist intellectuals, including Bibó, were imprisoned or forced into menial work or manual labour.\n\nLukács's personal aesthetic and political position on culture was always that socialist culture would eventually triumph in terms of quality. He thought it should play out in terms of competing cultures, not by \"administrative\" measures. In 1948–49 Lukács's position for cultural tolerance was smashed in a \"Lukács purge,\" when Mátyás Rákosi turned his famous salami tactics on the Hungarian Communist Party.\n\nIn the mid-1950s Lukács was reintegrated into party life. The party used him to help purge the Hungarian Writers' Union in 1955–56. Tamás Aczél and Tibor Méray (former Secretaries of the Hungarian Writers' Union) both believe that Lukács participated grudgingly, and cite Lukács leaving the presidium and the meeting at the first break as evidence of this reluctance.\n\nIn 1956 Lukács became a minister of the brief communist revolutionary government led by Imre Nagy, which opposed the Soviet Union. At this time Lukács's daughter led a short-lived party of communist revolutionary youth. Lukács's position on the 1956 revolution was that the Hungarian Communist Party would need to retreat into a coalition government of socialists, and slowly rebuild its credibility with the Hungarian people. While a minister in Nagy's revolutionary government, Lukács also participated in trying to reform the Hungarian Communist Party on a new basis. This party, the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, was rapidly co-opted by János Kádár after 4 November 1956.\n\nDuring the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, Lukács was present at debates of the anti-party and revolutionary communist Petőfi Society, while remaining part of the party apparatus. During the revolution, as mentioned in \"Budapest Diary,\" Lukács argued for a new Soviet-aligned communist party. In Lukács's view, the new party could win social leadership only by persuasion instead of force. Lukács envisioned an alliance between the dissident communist Hungarian Revolutionary Youth Party, the revolutionary Hungarian Social Democratic Party and his own Soviet-aligned party as a very junior partner.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Revolution, Lukács was deported to the Socialist Republic of Romania with the rest of Nagy's government. Unlike Nagy, he narrowly avoided execution. Due to his role in Nagy's government, he was no longer trusted by the party apparatus. Lukács's followers were indicted for political crimes throughout the 1960s and '70s, and a number fled to the West. Lukács's books \"The Young Hegel\" (\"Der junge Hegel\", Zurich, 1948) and \"The Destruction of Reason\" (\"Die Zerstörung der Vernunft\", Berlin, 1954) have been used to argue that Lukács was covertly critical of Stalinism as an irrational distortion of Hegelian-Marxism.\n\nHe returned to Budapest in 1957. Lukács publicly abandoned his positions of 1956 and engaged in self-criticism. Having abandoned his earlier positions, Lukács remained loyal to the Communist Party until his death in 1971. In his last years, following the uprisings in France and Czechoslovakia in 1968, Lukács became more publicly critical of the Soviet Union and Hungarian Communist Party.\n\nIn an interview just before his death, Lukács remarked: \nWritten between 1919 and 1922, \"History and Class Consciousness\" (1923) initiated Western Marxism. Lukács emphasizes concepts such as alienation, reification and class consciousness.\n\nLukács argues that methodology is the only thing that distinguishes Marxism: even if all its substantive propositions were rejected, it would remain valid because of its distinctive method:\n\nHe criticises Marxist revisionism by calling for the return to this Marxist method, which is fundamentally dialectical materialism. Lukács conceives \"revisionism\" as inherent to the Marxist theory, insofar as dialectical materialism is, according to him, the product of class struggle: \nAccording to him, \"The premise of dialectical materialism is, we recall: 'It is not men's consciousness that determines their existence, but on the contrary, their social existence that determines their consciousness.' ...Only when the core of existence stands revealed as a social process can existence be seen as the product, albeit the hitherto unconscious product, of human activity.\" (§5). In line with Marx's thought, he criticises the individualist bourgeois philosophy of the subject, which founds itself on the voluntary and conscious subject. Against this ideology, he asserts the primacy of social relations. Existence — and thus the world — is the product of human activity; but this can be seen only if the primacy of social process on individual consciousness is accepted. Lukács does not restrain human liberty for sociological determinism: to the contrary, this production of existence is the possibility of \"praxis\".\n\nHe conceives the problem in the relationship between theory and practice. Lukács quotes Marx's words: \"It is not enough that thought should seek to realise itself; reality must also strive towards thought.\" How does the thought of intellectuals relate to class struggle, if theory is not simply to lag behind history, as it is in Hegel's philosophy of history (\"Minerva always comes at the dusk of night...\")? Lukács criticises Friedrich Engels's \"Anti-Dühring\", saying that he \"does not even mention the most vital interaction, namely the dialectical relation between subject and object in the historical process, let alone give it the prominence it deserves.\" This dialectical relation between subject and object is the basis of Lukács's critique of Immanuel Kant's epistemology, according to which the subject is the exterior, universal and contemplating subject, separated from the object.\n\nFor Lukács, \"ideology\" is a projection of the class consciousness of the bourgeoisie, which functions to prevent the proletariat from attaining consciousness of its revolutionary position. Ideology determines the \"form of objectivity\", thus the very structure of knowledge. According to Lukács, real science must attain the \"concrete totality\" through which only it is possible to think the current form of objectivity as a historical period. Thus, the so-called eternal \"laws\" of economics are dismissed as the ideological illusion projected by the current form of objectivity (\"What is Orthodoxical Marxism?\", §3). He also writes: \"It is only when the core of being has showed itself as social becoming, that the being itself can appear as a product, so far unconscious, of human activity, and this activity, in turn, as the decisive element of the transformation of being.\" (\"What is Orthodoxical Marxism?\", §5) Finally, \"orthodoxical marxism\" is not defined as interpretation of \"Capital\" as if it were the Bible or an embrace of \"marxist thesis\", but as fidelity to the \"marxist method\", dialectics.\n\nLukács presents the category of \"reification\" whereby, due to the commodity nature of capitalist society, social relations become objectified. This precludes the spontaneous emergence of class consciousness. In this context, the need for a party in the Leninist sense emerges, the subjective aspect of the re-invigorated Marxian dialectic.\n\nIn his later career, Lukács repudiated the ideas of \"History and Class Consciousness\", in particular the belief in the proletariat as a \"subject-object of history\" (1960 Postface to French translation). As late as 1925–1926, he still defended these ideas, in an unfinished manuscript, which he called \"Tailism and the Dialectic.\" It was not published until 1996 in Hungarian and English in 2000 under the title \"A Defence of History and Class Consciousness\".\n\nIn addition to his standing as a Marxist political thinker, Lukács was an influential literary critic of the twentieth century. His important work in literary criticism began early in his career, with \"The Theory of the Novel\", a seminal work in literary theory and the theory of genre. The book is a history of the novel as a form, and an investigation into its distinct characteristics. In \"The Theory of the Novel\", he coins the term \"transcendental homelessness\", which he defines as the \"longing of all souls for the place in which they once belonged, and the 'nostalgia… for utopian perfection, a nostalgia that feels itself and its desires to be the only true reality'\".\n\nLukács later repudiated \"The Theory of the Novel\", writing a lengthy introduction that described it as erroneous, but nonetheless containing a \"romantic anti-capitalism\" which would later develop into Marxism. (This introduction also contains his famous dismissal of Theodor Adorno and others in Western Marxism as having taken up residence in the \"Grand Hotel Abyss\".)\n\nLukács's later literary criticism includes the well-known essay \"Kafka or Thomas Mann?\", in which Lukács argues for the work of Thomas Mann as a superior attempt to deal with the condition of modernity, and criticises Franz Kafka's brand of modernism. Lukács steadfastly opposed the formal innovations of modernist writers like Kafka, James Joyce, and Samuel Beckett, preferring the traditional aesthetic of realism.\n\nDuring his time in Moscow in the 1930s, Lukács worked on Marxist views of aesthetics while belonging to the group around an influential Moscow magazine \"The Literary Critic\" (\"Literaturny Kritik\"). The editor of this magazine, Mikhail Lifshitz, was an important Soviet author on aesthetics. Lifshitz' views were very similar to Lukács's insofar as both argued for the value of the traditional art; despite the drastic difference in age (Lifschitz was much younger) both Lifschitz and Lukács indicated that their working relationship at that time was a collaboration of equals. Lukács contributed frequently to this magazine, which was also followed by Marxist art theoreticians around the world through various translations published by the Soviet government.\n\"The collaboration between Lifschitz and Lukács resulted in the formation of an informal circle of the like-minded Marxist intellectuals connected to the journal Literaturnyi Kritik [The Literary Critic], published monthly starting in the summer of 1933 by the Organisational Committee of the Writers' Union. ... A group of thinkers formed around Lifschitz, Lukács and Andrei Platonov; they were concerned with articulating the aesthetical views of Marx and creating a kind of Marxist aesthetics that had not yet been properly formulated.\"\nLukács famously argued for the revolutionary character of the novels of Sir Walter Scott and Honoré de Balzac. Lukács felt that both authors' nostalgic, pro-aristocratic politics allowed them accurate and critical stances because of their opposition (albeit reactionary) to the rising bourgeoisie. This view was expressed in his later book \"The Historical Novel\" (published in Russian in 1937, then in Hungarian in 1947), as well as in his essay \"Realism in the Balance\" (1938).\n\n\"The Historical Novel\" is probably Lukács's most influential work of literary history. In it he traces the development of the genre of historical fiction. While prior to 1789, he argues, people's consciousness of history was relatively underdeveloped, the French Revolution and Napoleonic wars that followed brought about a realisation of the constantly changing, evolving character of human existence. This new historical consciousness was reflected in the work of Sir Walter Scott, whose novels use 'representative' or 'typical' characters to dramatise major social conflicts and historical transformations, for example the dissolution of feudal society in the Scottish Highlands and the entrenchment of mercantile capitalism. Lukács argues that Scott's new brand of historical realism was taken up by Balzac and Tolstoy, and enabled novelists to depict contemporary social life not as a static drama of fixed, universal types, but rather as a moment of history, constantly changing, open to the potential of revolutionary transformation. For this reason he sees these authors as progressive and their work as potentially radical, despite their own personal conservative politics.\n\nFor Lukács, this historical realist tradition began to give way after the 1848 revolutions, when the bourgeoisie ceased to be a progressive force and their role as agents of history was usurped by the proletariat. After this time, historical realism begins to sicken and lose its concern with social life as inescapably historical. He illustrates this point by comparing Flaubert's historical novel \"Salammbô\" to that of the earlier realists. For him, Flaubert's work marks a turning away from relevant social issues and an elevation of style over substance. Why he does not discuss \"Sentimental Education\", a novel much more overtly concerned with recent historical developments, is not clear. For much of his life Lukács promoted a return to the realist tradition that he believed it had reached its height with Balzac and Scott, and bemoaned the supposed neglect of history that characterised modernism.\n\n\"The Historical Novel\" has been hugely influential in subsequent critical studies of historical fiction, and no serious analyst of the genre fails to engage at some level with Lukács's arguments.\n\nThe initial intent of \"Realism in the Balance\" (\"Es geht um den Realismus\"), stated at its outset, is debunking the claims of those defending Expressionism as a valuable literary movement. Lukács addresses the discordance in the community of modernist critics, whom he regarded as incapable of deciding which writers were Expressionist and which were not, arguing that \"perhaps there is no such thing as an Expressionist writer.\"\n\nBut although his aim is ostensibly to criticise what he perceived as the over-valuation of modernist schools of writing at the time the article was published, Lukács uses the essay as an opportunity to advance his formulation of the desirable alternative to these schools. He rejects the notion that modern art must necessarily manifest itself as a litany of sequential movements, beginning with Naturalism, and proceeding through Impressionism and Expressionism to culminate in Surrealism. For Lukács, the important issue at stake was not the conflict that results from the modernists' evolving oppositions to classical forms, but rather the ability of art to confront an objective reality that exists in the world, an ability he found almost entirely lacking in modernism.\n\nLukács believed that desirable alternative to such modernism must therefore take the form of Realism, and he enlists the realist authors Maxim Gorky, Thomas and Heinrich Mann, and Romain Rolland to champion his cause. To frame the debate, Lukács introduces the arguments of critic Ernst Bloch, a defender of Expressionism, and the author to whom Lukács was chiefly responding. He maintains that modernists such as Bloch are too willing to ignore the realist tradition, an ignorance that he believes derives from a modernist rejection of a crucial tenet of Marxist theory, a rejection which he quotes Bloch as propounding. This tenet is the belief that the system of capitalism is \"an objective totality of social relations,\" and it is fundamental to Lukács's arguments in favour of realism.\n\nHe explains that the pervasiveness of capitalism, the unity in its economic and ideological theory, and its profound influence on social relations comprise a \"closed integration\" or \"totality,\" an objective whole that functions independent of human consciousness. Lukács cites Marx to bolster this historical materialist worldview: \"The relations of production in every society form a whole.\" He further relies on Marx to argue that the bourgeoisie's unabated development of the world's markets are so far-reaching as to create a unified totality, and explains that because the increasing autonomy of elements of the capitalist system (such as the autonomy of currency) is perceived by society as \"crisis,\" there must be an underlying unity that binds these seemingly autonomous elements of the capitalist system together, and makes their separation appear as crisis. \nReturning to modernist forms, Lukács stipulates that such theories disregard the relationship of literature to objective reality, in favour of the portrayal of subjective experience and immediacy that do little to evince the underlying capitalist totality of existence. It is clear that Lukács regards the representation of reality as art's chief purpose—in this he is perhaps not in disagreement with the modernists—but he maintains that \"If a writer strives to represent reality as it truly is, i.e. if he is an authentic realist, then the question of totality plays a decisive role.\" \"True realists\" demonstrate the importance of the social context, and since the unmasking of this objective totality is a crucial element in Lukács's Marxist ideology, he privileges their authorial approach.\n\nLukács then sets up a dialectical opposition between two elements he believes inherent to human experience. He maintains that this dialectical relation exists between the \"appearance\" of events as subjective, unfettered experiences and their \"essence\" as provoked by the objective totality of capitalism. Lukács explains that good realists, such as Thomas Mann, create a contrast between the consciousnesses of their characters (appearance) and a reality independent of them (essence). According to Lukács, Mann succeeds because he creates this contrast. Conversely, modernist writers fail because they portray reality only as it appears to themselves and their characters—subjectively—and \"fail to pierce the surface\" of these immediate, subjective experiences \"to discover the underlying essence, i.e. the real factors that relate their experiences to the hidden social forces that produce them.\" The pitfalls of relying on immediacy are manifold, according to Lukács. Because the prejudices inculcated by the capitalist system are so insidious, they cannot be escaped without the abandonment of subjective experience and immediacy in the literary sphere. They can only be superseded by realist authors who \"abandon and transcend the limits of immediacy, by scrutinising all subjective experiences and measuring them against social reality;\" this is no easy task. Lukács relies on Hegelian dialectics to explain how the relationship between this immediacy and abstraction effects a subtle indoctrination on the part of capitalist totality. The circulation of money, he explains, as well as other elements of capitalism, is entirely abstracted away from its place in the broader capitalist system, and therefore appears as a subjective immediacy, which elides its position as a crucial element of objective totality.\nAlthough abstraction can lead to the concealment of objective reality, it is necessary for art, and Lukács believes that realist authors can successfully employ it \"to penetrate the laws governing objective reality, and to uncover the deeper, hidden, mediated, not immediately perceptible of relationships that go to make up society.\" After a great deal of intellectual effort, Lukács claims a successful realist can discover these objective relationships and give them artistic shape in the form of a character's subjective experience. Then, by employing the technique of abstraction, the author can portray the character's experience of objective reality as the same kind of subjective, immediate experience that characterise totality's influence on non-fictional individuals. The best realists, he claims, \"depict the vital, but not immediately obvious forces at work in objective reality.\" They do so with such profundity and truth that the products of their imagination can potentially receive confirmation from subsequent historical events. The true masterpieces of realism can be appreciated as \"wholes\" which depict a wide-ranging and exhaustive objective reality like the one that exists in the non-fictional world. \nAfter advancing his formulation of a desirable literary school, a realism that depicts objective reality, Lukács turns once again to the proponents of modernism. Citing Nietzsche, who argues that \"the mark of every form of literary decadence ... is that life no longer dwells in the totality,\" Lukács strives to debunk modernist portrayals, claiming they reflect not on objective reality, but instead proceed from subjectivity to create a \"home-made model of the contemporary world.\" The abstraction (and immediacy) inherent in modernism portrays \"essences\" of capitalist domination divorced from their context, in a way that takes each essence in \"isolation,\" rather than taking into account the objective totality that is the foundation for all of them. Lukács believes that the \"social mission of literature\" is to clarify the experience of the masses, and in turn show these masses that their experiences are influenced by the objective totality of capitalism, and his chief criticism of modernist schools of literature is that they fail to live up to this goal, instead proceeding inexorably towards more immediate, more subjective, more abstracted versions of fictional reality that ignore the objective reality of the capitalist system. Realism, because it creates apparently subjective experiences that demonstrate the essential social realities that provoke them, is for Lukács the only defensible or valuable literary school of the early twentieth century.\n\nLater in life Lukács undertook a major exposition on the ontology of social being, which has been partly published in English in three volumes. The work is a systematic treatment of dialectical philosophy in its materialist form.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "676559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=676559", "title": "Helen Schucman", "text": "Helen Schucman\n\nHelen Cohn Schucman (July 14, 1909 – February 9, 1981) (born Helen Dora Cohn) was an American clinical and research psychologist. She was a professor of medical psychology at Columbia University in New York from 1958 until her retirement in 1976. Schucman is best known for having \"scribed\" with the help of colleague William Thetford the book \"A Course in Miracles\" (1st edition, 1975), the contents of which she claimed to have been given to her by an inner voice she identified as Jesus. However, as per her request, her role as its \"writer\" was not revealed to the general public until after her death.\n\nSchucman was born Helen Dora Cohn in 1909 to Sigmund Cohn, a prosperous metallurgical chemist, and Rose Black, who had married on October 18, 1896, in Manhattan. Schucman had a brother, Adolph Cohn, who was almost 12 years her senior. Though her parents were both half-Jewish, they were non-observant. Schucman's mother Rose dabbled in Theosophy and various expressions of Christianity such as Christian Science and the Unity School of Christianity. However, it was the family housekeeper, Idabel, a Baptist, who had the deepest religious influence on Schucman while she was growing up. In 1921, when she was 12, Schucman visited Lourdes, France, where she had a spiritual experience, and in 1922 she was baptized as a Baptist. She received her B.A. from New York University (NYU), (1931–1935), where she met fellow student Louis Schucman in 1932 and whom she married, in a 10-minute ceremony in a local rabbi's office, on May 26, 1933. Louis owned one or more bookstores on \"Book Row\" in Manhattan, and during the early years of their marriage Schucman worked at his main store. Growing restless in her early forties, she returned to NYU to study psychology. She received her M.A. in 1952, followed by her Ph.D. (1952–1957).\n\nSchucman was a clinical and research psychologist, who held the tenured position of Associate Professor of Medical Psychology at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York City. During her tenure at Columbia University, Schucman worked with William Thetford, whom she first met in early 1958.\n\n\"A Course in Miracles\" (ACIM) was \"scribed\" by Schucman between 1965 and 1972 through a process of inner dictation. She experienced the process as one of a distinct and clear dictation from an inner voice, which earlier had identified itself to her as Jesus. Her scribing of \"A Course in Miracles\" began with these words: \"This is a course in miracles, please take notes.\"\n\nWouter Hanegraaff distinguishes Schucman's process as a type of channeling that articulates revelation, clarifying that \"... in cases of inner dictation in which the medium hears a voice dictating messages, (s)he writes down [these messages] in a fully conscious state.\" Hanegraaff continues by specifically characterizing Schucman's case as spontaneous channeling, indicating that \"...[o]ver the years the voice proved to be remarkably consistent, stopping the dictation when interrupted [by Schucman's daily activities] and continuing at the next opportunity.\" Hanegraaff also references specific dialogue between Schucman and William Thetford citing author Robert E. Skutch, among other authors, including Kenneth Wapnick (1942-2013), whom Hanegraaff indicates as a \"good\" source for complete discussion on this subject.\n\nDuring this time, Schucman worked in a collaborative venture with William Thetford in scribing \"A Course In Miracles\" (ACIM) and also with its initial edits. The main transcription process took seven years, from 1965 through 1972, during which time she would take down the notes in shorthand, then each day read back these notes to Thetford, who would type them out while she read them. After all the ACIM material had been initially transcribed it was then edited for publication by Schucman and the other two primary editors, Thetford and Kenneth Wapnick.\nSchucman also wrote two supplemental ACIM pamphlets by the same process as well as a collection of poetry later published as \"The Gifts of God\". Following the transcription and editing, Schucman began to reduce the level of her direct involvement in the ACIM related effort and was never as heavily involved with teaching or popularizing the material as were its editors, Bill Thetford and Kenneth Wapnick. \n\nIn 1980 Schucman was diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer. After a prolonged illness, she died of related complications at age 71 in 1981. Her name as the writer of ACIM was revealed only after her death, and later a collection of her poems, \"The Gifts of God\", was published by the \"Foundation for Inner Peace\".\n\n\"Absence From Felicity: The Story of Helen Schucman and Her Scribing of A Course in Miracles\" is the only biography of Schucman. It was written by her longtime friend Kenneth Wapnick. After Schucman's death, Wapnick founded the Foundation for A Course in Miracles (FACIM), an organization that claimed to hold a copyright to \"A Course In Miracles\". Upon Dr. Wapnick's death in 2013, the purported copyright to \"A Course In Miracles\" reverted to The Foundation For Inner Peace FIP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33057625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33057625", "title": "Herbert Ernest Cushman", "text": "Herbert Ernest Cushman\n\nHerbert Ernest Cushman (1865-1944) A.M., Ph.D., was a professor of philosophy at Tufts College who wrote \"A Beginner's History of Philosophy\" and translated Wilhelm Windelband's \"History Of Ancient Philosophy\" into English. One may find published lectures of his given at Tufts, such as \"What is Christianity?\"\n"}
{"id": "16305814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16305814", "title": "Hyobong Hangnul", "text": "Hyobong Hangnul\n\nHyobong Hangnul (1888—1966) was a Korean Jogye Seon master who was the former head of the Jogye Order. The master of the late Kusan Sunim, Hyobong was the guiding teacher of several temples in Korea—including Songgwang-sa and Haein-sa. Stephen Batchelor has called him, \"\"One of the most remarkable Buddhist teachers of this century in Korea\".\" Hyobong was also the first Korean individual to serve as a judge for the Japanese Imperial government, though he resigned his position after being troubled with having sentenced a man to death. Having told no one of his resignation, he took to selling toffee in rural towns and eventually came to ordain as a sunim under Sŏktu Sunim. Hyobong went on to live as a traveling monk, visiting monastery after monastery for many years. He died in the posture of zazen while at P'Yoch'chung monastery in 1966.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "386398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386398", "title": "Hypothetico-deductive model", "text": "Hypothetico-deductive model\n\nThe hypothetico-deductive model or method is a proposed description of scientific method. According to it, scientific inquiry proceeds by formulating a hypothesis in a form that can be falsifiable, using a test on observable data where the outcome is not yet known. A test outcome that could have and does run contrary to predictions of the hypothesis is taken as a falsification of the hypothesis. A test outcome that could have, but does not run contrary to the hypothesis corroborates the theory. It is then proposed to compare the explanatory value of competing hypotheses by testing how stringently they are corroborated by their predictions.\n\nOne example of an algorithmic statement of the hypothetico-deductive method is as follows:\n\nOne possible sequence in this model would be 1, 2, 3, 4. If the outcome of 4 holds, and 3 is not yet disproven, you may continue with 3, 4, 1, and so forth; but if the outcome of 4 shows 3 to be false, you will have to go back to 2 and try to invent a new 2, deduce a new 3, look for 4, and so forth.\n\nNote that this method can never absolutely verify (prove the truth of) 2. It can only falsify 2. (This is what Einstein meant when he said, \"No amount of experimentation can ever prove me right; a single experiment can prove me wrong.\")\n\nAdditionally, as pointed out by Carl Hempel (1905–1997), this simple view of the scientific method is incomplete; a conjecture can also incorporate probabilities, e.g., the drug is effective about 70% of the time. Tests, in this case, must be repeated to substantiate the conjecture (in particular, the probabilities). In this and other cases, we can quantify a probability for our confidence in the conjecture itself and then apply a Bayesian analysis, with each experimental result shifting the probability either up or down. Bayes' theorem shows that the probability will never reach exactly 0 or 100% (no absolute certainty in either direction), but it can still get very close to either extreme. See also confirmation holism.\n\nQualification of corroborating evidence is sometimes raised as philosophically problematic. The raven paradox is a famous example. The hypothesis that 'all ravens are black' would appear to be corroborated by observations of only black ravens. However, 'all ravens are black' is logically equivalent to 'all non-black things are non-ravens' (this is the contraposition form of the original implication). 'This is a green tree' is an observation of a non-black thing that is a non-raven and therefore corroborates 'all non-black things are non-ravens'. It appears to follow that the observation 'this is a green tree' is corroborating evidence for the hypothesis 'all ravens are black'. Attempted resolutions may distinguish:\n\nEvidence contrary to a hypothesis is itself philosophically problematic. Such evidence is called a falsification of the hypothesis. However, under the theory of confirmation holism it is always possible to save a given hypothesis from falsification. This is so because any falsifying observation is embedded in a theoretical background, which can be modified in order to save the hypothesis. Popper acknowledged this but maintained that a critical approach respecting methodological rules that avoided such \"immunizing stratagems\" is conducive to the progress of science.\n\nPhysicist Sean Carroll claims the model ignores underdetermination.\nThe hypothetico-deductive model (or approach) versus other research models\n\nThe hypothetico-deductive approach contrasts with other research models such as the inductive approach or grounded theory. In the data percolation methodology, \nthe hypothetico-deductive approach is included in a paradigm of pragmatism by which four types of relations between the variables can exist: descriptive, of influence, longitudinal or causal. The variables are classified in two groups, structural and functional, a classification that drives the formulation of hypotheses and the statistical tests to be performed on the data so as to increase the efficiency of the research. \n\n"}
{"id": "9540357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9540357", "title": "I'm entitled to my opinion", "text": "I'm entitled to my opinion\n\nI'm entitled to my opinion or I have a right to my opinion is a logical fallacy in which a person discredits any opposition by claiming that they are entitled to their opinion. The statement exemplifies a red herring or thought-terminating cliché. The logical fallacy is often presented as Let's agree to disagree. Whether one has a particular entitlement or right is irrelevant to whether one's assertion is true or false. To assert the existence of the right is a failure to assert any justification for the opinion. Such an assertion, however, can also be an assertion of one's own freedom or of a refusal to participate in the system of logic at hand.\n\nPhilosopher Patrick Stokes has described the expression as problematic because it is often used to defend factually indefensible positions or to \"[imply] an equal right to be heard on a matter in which only one of the two parties has the relevant expertise\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46105", "title": "Indigo children", "text": "Indigo children\n\nIndigo children, according to a pseudoscientific New Age concept, are children who are believed to possess special, unusual, and sometimes supernatural traits or abilities. The idea is based on concepts developed in the 1970s by Nancy Ann Tappe and further developed by Lee Carroll and Jan Tober. The concept of indigo children gained popular interest with the publication of a series of books in the late 1990s and the release of several films in the following decade. A variety of books, conferences and related materials have been created surrounding belief in the idea of indigo children and their nature and abilities. The interpretations of these beliefs range from their being the next stage in human evolution, in some cases possessing paranormal abilities such as telepathy, to the belief that they are more empathetic and creative than their peers.\n\nNo scientific studies give credibility to the existence of indigo children or their traits. The label appeals to some parents whose children have been diagnosed with learning disabilities and to parents seeking to believe that their children are special. Critics view this as a way for parents to avoid considering pediatric treatment or a psychiatric diagnosis. The list of traits used to describe the children has also been criticized for being vague enough to be applied to almost anyone, a form of the Forer effect.\n\nThe term \"indigo children\" originated with parapsychologist and self-described synesthete and psychic Nancy Ann Tappe, who developed the concept in the 1970s. In 1982 Tappe published a comb-bound which she expanded and republished in paperback in 1986 as \"Understanding Your Life Thru Color\". In these works Tappe introduced the concept of \"life colors\", defined in \"Understanding Your Life Thru Color\" as \"the single color of the aura that remains constant in most people from the cradle to the grave\". The concept of \"life colors\" was popularized nationally by Tappe's student Barbara Bowers, who published \"What Color Is Your Aura?: Personality Spectrums for Understanding and Growth\" in 1989, and by Bowers' student Pamala Oslie, who published \"Life Colors: What the Colors in Your Aura Reveal\" in 1991. \n\nTappe stated that during the late 1960s and early 1970s she began noticing that many children were being born with indigo auras (or, in her terminology, with indigo as their \"life color\"). The idea was later popularized by the 1998 book \"The Indigo Children: The New Kids Have Arrived\", written by husband and wife self-help lecturers Lee Carroll and Jan Tober. \n\nIn 2002, the first international conference on indigo children was held in Hawaii, drawing 600 attendees, and there have been subsequent conferences in Florida, Oregon, and elsewhere. Several films have been produced on the subject, including two films by New Age writer James Twyman: a 2003 feature film \"Indigo\" and a 2006 documentary \"The Indigo Evolution\".\n\nSarah W. Whedon suggests in a 2009 article in \"Nova Religio\" that the social construction of indigo children is a response to an \"apparent crisis of American childhood\" in the form of increased youth violence and diagnoses of attention deficit disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Whedon believes parents label their children as \"indigo\" to provide an alternative explanation for their children's improper behavior stemming from ADD and ADHD.\n\nDescriptions of indigo children include that they:\n\nOther alleged traits include:\n\nAccording to Tober and Carroll, indigo children may function poorly in conventional schools due to their rejection of rigid authority, their being smarter or more spiritually mature than their teachers, and their lack of response to guilt-, fear- or manipulation-based discipline.\n\nAccording to research psychologist Russell Barkley, the New Age movement has yet to produce empirical evidence of the existence of indigo children, as the traits most commonly attributed to them are closely aligned with the Forer effect—so vague that they could describe nearly anyone. Many critics see the concept of indigo children as made up of extremely general traits, a sham diagnosis that is an alternative to a medical diagnosis, with a complete lack of science or studies to support it.\n\nRetired professor of philosophy and skeptic Robert Todd Carroll notes that many of the commentators on the indigo phenomenon are of varying qualifications and expertise, and parents may prefer labeling their child an indigo as an alternative to a diagnosis that implies poor parenting, narcissistic parenting, damage, or mental illness. This is a belief echoed by academic psychologists. Some mental health experts are concerned that labeling a disruptive child an \"indigo\" may delay proper diagnosis and treatment that could help the child or look into the parenting style that may be causing the behavior. Others have stated that many of the traits of indigo children could be more prosaically interpreted as simple unruliness and alertness.\n\nMany children labeled indigo by their parents are diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and Tober and Carroll's book \"The Indigo Children\" linked the concept with diagnosis of ADHD. David Cohen points out that labeling a child an indigo is an alternative to a diagnosis that implies mental illness, which may appeal to many parents. Cohen has stated, \"The view in medicine is that ADHD is a defect. It's a disorder. If you're a parent, the idea of 'gifted' is much more appealing than the idea of a disorder.\" Linking the concept of indigo children with the distaste for the use of Ritalin to control ADHD, Robert Todd Carroll states \"The hype and near-hysteria surrounding the use of Ritalin has contributed to an atmosphere that makes it possible for a book like \"Indigo Children\" to be taken seriously. Given the choice, who wouldn't rather believe their children are special and chosen for some high mission rather than that they have a brain disorder?\" Stephen Hinshaw, a professor of psychology at the University of California, Berkeley, states that concerns regarding the overmedicalization of children are legitimate but even gifted children with ADHD learn better with more structure rather than less, even if the structure initially causes difficulties. Many labeled as indigo children are or have been home schooled. Many children labeled as indigo children have the same identifying criteria as those children who have experienced being raised by a narcissistic parent, and are considered to have been emotionally abused.\n\nA 2011 study suggested parents of children with ADHD who label their children as \"indigos\" may perceive problematic behaviors emblematic of ADHD to be more positive and experience less frustration and disappointment, though they still experience more negative emotions and conflicts than parents of children without a diagnosis.\n\nCrystal children, a concept related to indigo children, has been linked by autism researcher Mitzi Waltz to the autistic spectrum. Proponents recategorize autistic symptoms as telepathic powers, and attempt to \"‍[reconceptualize] the autistic traits associated with them as part of a positive identity\". Waltz states that there may be inherent dangers to these beliefs, leading parents to deny the existence of impairments, avoid proven treatments and spend considerable money on unhelpful interventions. Waltz states that \"Parents may also transmit belief systems to the child that are self-aggrandizing, confusing, or potentially frightening\".\n\nThe concept of indigo children has been criticized for being less about children and their needs, and more about the profits to be made by self-styled experts in book and video sales as well as lucrative counseling sessions, summer camps, conferences and speaking engagements.\n\nNancy Ann Tappe originally noted that one type of Indigo child (the \"interdimensional child\"), despite being seen as a bully, was expected to lead new religious movements.\n\nOne pagan author, Lorna Tedder, anecdotally notes that every pagan woman she knew who had or was going to have a child believed their child was an Indigo child.\n\nS. Zohreh Kermani states that \"Despite their problems with authority, uncontrollable tempers, and overbearing egos, Indigo Children are many pagan parents' ideal offspring: sensitive, psychic, and strong willed\", but also notes the concept is less about the child's psychic abilities than the parent's own hopes and desire for \"distinction from the less-evolved masses.\"\n\nDaniel Kline, in an essay titled \"The New Kids: Indigo Children and New Age Discourse\", notes that the magical belief that the innocence of children equates to spiritual powers has existed for centuries, and that the indigo child movement is rooted in a religious rejection of science-based medicine. In particular, he claims that Nancy Ann Tappe derived some of her ideas from Charles Webster Leadbeater (her main innovation being emphasizing the connection between children and the color indigo), and that the New Age adoption of the concept is a reaction against diagnoses of ADD, ADHD, and autism. Kline also discusses how Carroll and Tober have tried to distance themselves from religious beliefs about indigo children in order to maintain control of the concept (even recanting their previous affirmations about auras), and how skeptics and New Agers alike both make rhetorical appeals to science (despite the latter's rejection of it) to legitimize their ideological beliefs regarding the existence of indigo children.\n\nAt the 2014 University of Cambridge Festival of Ideas, anthropologist Beth Singler discussed how the term indigo children functioned as a new religious movement, along with Jediism. Singler's work focuses in the Indigo movement as a part of an overall discussion on \"wider moral children, parenting, the diagnosis of conditions such as ADHD and autism and conspiracy theories about Big Pharma and vaccinations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "173094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173094", "title": "Islamization of knowledge", "text": "Islamization of knowledge\n\nThe phrase Islamization of knowledge has been used in contemporary Islamic philosophy since the later 20th century to refer to attempts to reconcile Islam and modernity, specifically seeking for a way to adopt the scientific method in a way consistent with Islamic ethical norms. \n\nThe phrase \"Islamisation of knowledge\" was first used and proposed by the Malaysian scholar Syed Muhammad Naquib al-Attas in his book \"Islam and Secularism\" (first published in 1978).\n\nIt was also proposed by the Palestinian philosopher Ismail Al-Faruqi, in 1982, in response to what he called \"the malaise of the ummah\" (faithful). He argued that by using tools, categories, concepts and modes of analysis that originated wholly in the secular West (like Marxism), there was a disconnect between the ecological and social reality of Muslim nations, and worse, a total inability to respect or even notice the violations of ethics of Islam itself. In his view, clashes between traditionalist ulema and reformers seeking to revive Muslim society with modern science and professional categories, were inevitable without the strong ethical constraints that applied to methods of early Muslim philosophy. He proposed therefore to revive those methods, restore ijtihad and integrate scientific method within Islamic limits.\n\nA significant example of the movement to islamize knowledge is the International Institute of Islamic Thought, based in the US state of Virginia and closely linked to the Muslim Brotherhood. Beyond its academic work, the Institute has been controversial due to its links to terrorist groups.\n\nA body of modern knowledge that had been so \"Islamized\" would not offend the traditionalists, since it would place ethics before knowledge or curiosity or power, and provide for curtailment of scientific or professional activities that offended those ethics. However, if it were sufficiently broad and integrative to support inquiry across all vital fields including medicine, agriculture, ecology, and technology, it would provide ample opportunity for a modern professional class to mentally and economically liberate the Muslim societies. They would ally with, not fight with, the ulema.\n\nAl-Faruqi died in 1986, but his program has already had a profound effect, especially on Islamic economics, which operates under traditional zero-interest, participatory labor-capital structures, and supports stronger community control of land (as in the traditional practices of haram and hima, the equivalent of the modern watershed protection and wilderness reserve laws). These practices were already well on the way to revival before Al-Faruqi's work, however. Islamic banks remain a relatively minor force in world finance.\n\nThere are also debates on Islamic science and what it would mean to do science in a way that reflects the ethical teachings of Islam, and accept direction from the ijma on the priorities of such research.\n\nAl-Faruqi's analysis, called the \"Islamization of Knowledge: General Principles and Workplan\" remains the primary source for this program. Nasr's work on the congruence between classical Islam and the modern ecology movement is thought by some to be even more fundamental, and to suggest parallels between the ethical constraints that secular activists seek to place on science and technology, and the ethical constraints that Islam sought to place on philosophy and politics. An Islamic ecotheology would then converge with economics and put Islamic pillars under a form of ecological economics, with religious authority backing up sustainable development. This would be a significant first step towards Al-Faruqi's overall program.\n\nCritics argue that there are vast differences between the kind of ethics that are applied in the modern labour movement or the anti-globalization movement, for example, and those that would be applied by any believer in the literal interpretation of the Qur'an. Thus, any cooperation of modern ethical reformers and those seeking guidance from classical Islam would be doomed from the start.\n\nThere are, however, debates regarding Islamic feminism and ethics of technology wherein secular concerns (like vanity, consumerism, competing for attention, technological one-upmanship, runaway technologies) seem to often echo the terms of reference of a classical critique:\n\nCatholic theology was well integrated with scientific knowledge from the time of Aquinas to the time of Galileo, and that too was a deliberate program. Critics suggest that this also demonstrates the futility of trying to inhibit scientific research with reference to any religious fundamentalism.\n\nIn modern times, Pope John Paul II called at times for restraining the sciences to work strictly within a Christian ethical framework, and respect the boundaries between what is known by faith versus reason - his \"Fides et Ratio\" and \"Gospel of Life\" make some points in common with Al-Faruqi, calling likewise for strong ethical limits and a curtailment of curiosity or \"knowledge for knowledge's sake\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39945597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39945597", "title": "Johann Martin Chladenius", "text": "Johann Martin Chladenius\n\nJohann Martin Chladni (Latinized Chladenius) (Lutherstadt Wittenberg, 17 April 1710 – Erlangen, 10 September 1759) was a German philosopher, theologian and historian, who is seen as one of the founders of Hermeneutics. Said \"Doubt all things once\". We should go into the scriptures neutrally, not believing anything, take nothing on faith. Then come out with complete understanding, leave nothing unturned, through common sense and using your own reasoning.\n\nHe is the author of \"Allgemeine Geschichtswissenschaft\" (1752).\n\nIntroduction to Hermeneutics- David Jasper\n"}
{"id": "1603019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603019", "title": "KAON", "text": "KAON\n\nKAON (Karlsruhe ontology) is an ontology infrastructure developed by the University of Karlsruhe and the Research Center for Information Technologies in Karlsruhe.\nIts first incarnation was developed in 2002 and supported an enhanced version of RDF ontologies.\nSeveral tools like the graphical ontology editor OIModeler or the KAON Server were based on KAON.\n\nThere are ontology learning companion tools which take non-annotated natural language text as input: TextToOnto (KAON-based) and Text2Onto (KAON2-based). Text2Onto is based on the Probabilistic Ontology Model (POM).\n\nIn 2005, the first version of KAON2 was released, offering fast reasoning support for OWL ontologies. KAON2 is not backward-compatible with KAON. KAON2 is developed as a joint effort of the Information Process Engineering (IPE) at the Research Center for Information Technologies (FZI), the Institute of Applied Informatics and Formal Description Methods (AIFB) at the University of Karlsruhe, and the Information Management Group (IMG) at the University of Manchester.\n\nKAON, TextToOnto, and Text2Onto are open source, based on Java. KAON2 is not open source, but the executable can be downloaded from the KAON2 site.\n\n"}
{"id": "36121017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36121017", "title": "LibSBML", "text": "LibSBML\n\nLibSBML is an open-source software library that provides an application programming interface (API) for the SBML (Systems Biology Markup Language ) format. The libSBML library can be embedded in a software application or used in a web servlet (such as one that might be served by Apache Tomcat) as part of the application or servlet's implementation of support for reading, writing, and manipulating SBML documents and data streams. The core of libSBML is written in ISO standard C++; the library provides API for many programming languages via interfaces generated with the help of SWIG.\n\nThe libSBML library is free software released under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or any later version. LibSBML was developed thanks to funding from many agencies, particularly the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS, USA) as well as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA, USA) under the Bio-SPICE program.\n\nThe Systems Biology Markup Language (SBML) is an XML-based format for encoding computational models of a sort common in systems biology. Although SBML is based upon XML, and thus software developers \"could\" support SBML using off-the-shelf XML parser libraries, libSBML offers numerous advantages that make it easier for developers to implement support for SBML in their software. The premise behind the development of libSBML is that it is more convenient and efficient for developers to start with a higher-level API tailored specifically to SBML and its distinctive features than it is to start with a plain XML parser library.\n\nThe following is a partial list of libSBML's features:\n\n\nSome further explanations may be warranted concerning libSBML's support for working with mathematical formulas. In SBML Level 1, mathematical formulas are represented as text strings using a C-like syntax. This representation was chosen because of its simplicity, widespread familiarity and use in applications such as GEPASI and Jarnac, whose authors contributed to the initial design of SBML. In SBML Levels 2 and 3, there was a need to expand the mathematical vocabulary of Level 1 to include additional functions (both built-in and user-defined), mathematical constants, logical operators, relational operators and a special symbol to represent time. Rather than growing the simple C-like syntax into something more complicated and esoteric in order to support these features, and consequently having to manage two standards in two different formats (XML and text string formulas), SBML Levels 2 and 3 leverage an existing standard for expressing mathematical formulas, namely the content portion of MathML.\n\nAs mentioned above, LibSBML provides an abstraction for working with mathematical expressions in both text-string and MathML form: Abstract Syntax Trees (ASTs). Abstract Syntax Trees are well known in the computer science community; they are simple recursive data structures useful for representing the syntactic structure of sentences in certain kinds of languages (mathematical or otherwise). Much as libSBML allows programmers to manipulate SBML at the level of domain-specific objects, regardless of SBML Level or version, it also allows programmers to work with mathematical formula at the level of ASTs regardless of whether the original format was C-like infix or MathML. LibSBML goes one step further by allowing programmers to work exclusively with infix formula strings and instantly convert them to the appropriate MathML whenever needed.\n\nLibSBML requires a separate library to do low-level read/write operations on XML. It can use any one of three XML parser libraries: Xerces, expat or libxml2. Users can specify which library they wish to use at libSBML compilation time. LibSBML hides the differences between these parser libraries behind an abstraction layer; it seamlessly uses whichever library against which a given instance of libSBML has been compiled. (However, released binary distributions of libSBML all make use of the libxml2 library.)\n\nLibSBML uses software objects (i.e., instances of classes) that correspond to SBML components, with member variables representing the attributes of the corresponding SBML objects. The libSBML API is constructed to provide an intuitive way of relating SBML and the code needed to create or manipulate it with a class hierarchy that mimics the SBML structure. More information about the libSBML objects is available in the libSBML API documentation.\n\nLibSBML enables reading from and writing to either files or strings. Once an SBML document is read, libSBML stores the SBML content in an SBMLDocument object. This object can be written out again later. The following is an example written in Python:\n»> import libsbml\n\n»> doc = libsbml.readSBMLFromFile(filename)\n»> doc = libsbml.readSBMLFromString(string)\n\n»> doc = libsbml.readSBML(filename)\n»> doc = libsbml.readSBML(string)\n\n»> libsbml.writeSBMLToFile(doc, filename)\n»> True\n\n»> libsbml.writeSBMLToString(doc)\n»> '<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"UTF-8\"?>\\n\n<sbml xmlns=\"http://www.sbml.org/sbml/level3/version1/core\" \n</sbml>\\n'\n\nThe libSBML API allows easy creation of objects and subobjects representing SBML elements and the subelements contained within them. The following is an example written in C++:\nvoid createSBML()\n\nEach component in SBML has a number of attributes associated with it. These are stored as member variables of a given class, and libSBML provides functions to retrieve and query these values. The syntax of these functions is consistent throughout libSBML. The following is an example written in Python:\n»> import libsbml\n\n»> sbmlns = libsbml.SBMLNamespaces(3,1)\n»> doc = libsbml.SBMLDocument(sbmlns)\n\n»> model = doc.createModel()\n\n»> compartment = model.createCompartment()\n\n»> compartment.setId(\"cell\")\n0\n»> compartment.setSize(2.3)\n0\n»> compartment.setSpatialDimensions(3)\n0\n»> compartment.setUnits(\"litre\")\n0\n»> compartment.setConstant(True)\n0\n\n»> compartment.getId()\n'cell'\n»> compartment.getSpatialDimensions()\n3\n\n»> compartment.isSetSize()\nTrue\n»> compartment.getSize()\n2.3\n\n»> compartment.unsetSize()\n0\n»> compartment.isSetSize()\nFalse\n»> compartment.getSize()\nnan\n\n"}
{"id": "79355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79355", "title": "Lysander Spooner", "text": "Lysander Spooner\n\nLysander Spooner (January 19, 1808 – May 14, 1887) was an American political philosopher, essayist, pamphlet writer, Unitarian, abolitionist, legal theorist, and entrepreneur of the nineteenth century. He was a strong advocate of the labor movement and severely anti-authoritarian and individualist in his political views.\n\nSpooner's most famous writing includes the seminal abolitionist book \"The Unconstitutionality of Slavery\", and \"\" which opposed treason charges against secessionists. He is also known for competing with the U.S. Post Office with his American Letter Mail Company, which closed after legal problems with the federal government.\n\nSpooner was born on a farm in Athol, Massachusetts, on January 19, 1808, and died on May 14, 1887, in Boston.\n\nSpooner advocated what he called Natural Law or the \"Science of Justice\" wherein acts of initiatory coercion against individuals and their property, such as taxation, were considered criminal because they were immoral while the so-called criminal acts that violated only man-made (arbitrary) legislation were not necessarily criminal.\n\nSpooner's activism began with his career as a lawyer, which itself violated Massachusetts law. Spooner had studied law under the prominent lawyers and politicians John Davis and Charles Allen, but he had never attended college. According to the laws of the state, college graduates were required to study with an attorney for three years, while non-graduates were required to do so for five years.\n\nWith the encouragement of his legal mentors, Spooner set up his practice in Worcester after only three years, defying the courts. He regarded the three-year privilege for college graduates as a state-sponsored discrimination against the poor and also providing a monopoly income to those who met the requirements. He argued that \"no one has yet ever dared advocate, in direct terms, so monstrous a principle as that the rich ought to be protected by law from the competition of the poor\". In 1836, the legislature abolished the restriction. He opposed all licensing requirements for lawyers, doctors or anyone else that was prevented from being employed by such requirements. To prevent a person from doing business with a person without a professional license he saw as a violation of the natural right to contract.\n\nAfter a disappointing legal career and a failed career in real estate speculation in Ohio, Spooner returned to his father's farm in 1840.\n\nBeing an advocate of self-employment and opponent of government regulation of business, Spooner started his own business called American Letter Mail Company which competed with the U.S. Post Office. Postal rates were notoriously high in the 1840s, and in 1844, Spooner founded the American Letter Mail Company, which had offices in various cities, including Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York. Stamps could be purchased and then attached to letters which could be sent to any of its offices. From here agents were dispatched who traveled on railroads and steamboats, and carried the letters in hand bags. Letters were transferred to messengers in the cities along the routes who then delivered the letters to the addressees.\n\nThis was a challenge to the United States Post Office's monopoly. As he had done when challenging the rules of the Massachusetts Bar Association, he published a pamphlet titled \"The Unconstitutionality of the Laws of Congress Prohibiting Private Mails\". Although Spooner had finally found commercial success with his mail company, legal challenges by the government eventually exhausted his financial resources. A law enacted in 1851 that strengthened the federal government's monopoly finally put him out of business. The lasting legacy of Spooner's challenge to the postal service was the three-cent stamp, adopted in response to the competition his company provided.\n\nSpooner attained his greatest fame as a figure in the abolitionist movement. His most famous work, a book titled \"The Unconstitutionality of Slavery\", was published in 1845. Spooner's book contributed to a controversy among abolitionists over whether the United States Constitution supported the institution of slavery. The \"disunionist\" faction, led by William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips, argued the Constitution legally recognized and enforced the oppression of slaves (as, for example, in the provisions for the capture of fugitive slaves in Article IV, Section 2). More generally, Wendell Phillips disputed Spooner's notion that any unjust law should be held legally void by judges.\n\nSpooner challenged the claim that the text of the Constitution permitted slavery. Although he recognized that the Founders had probably not intended to outlaw slavery when writing the Constitution, he argued that only the meaning of the text, not the private intentions of its writers, was enforceable. Spooner used a complex system of legal and natural law arguments in order to show that the clauses usually interpreted as supporting slavery did not, in fact, support it, and that several clauses of the Constitution prohibited the states from establishing slavery. Spooner's arguments were cited by other pro-Constitution abolitionists, such as Gerrit Smith and the Liberty Party, which adopted it as an official text in its 1848 platform. Frederick Douglass, originally a Garrisonian disunionist, later came to accept the pro-Constitution position, and cited Spooner's arguments to explain his change of mind.\n\nFrom the publication of this book until 1861, Spooner actively campaigned against slavery. He published subsequent pamphlets on Jury nullification and other legal defenses for escaped slaves and offered his legal services, often free of charge, to fugitives. In the late 1850s, copies of his book were distributed to members of Congress sparking some debate over their contents. Even Senator Albert Gallatin Brown of Mississippi, a slavery proponent, praised the argument's intellectual rigor and conceded it was the most formidable legal challenge he had seen from the abolitionists to date. In 1858, Spooner circulated a \"Plan for the Abolition of Slavery\", calling for the use of guerrilla warfare against slaveholders by black slaves and non-slaveholding free Southerners, with aid from Northern abolitionists. Spooner also \"conspir[ed] with John Brown to promote a servile insurrection in the South\", and participated in an aborted plot to free Brown after his capture following the failed raid on Harper's Ferry, Virginia (Harper's Ferry is now part of the state of West Virginia).\n\nAlthough Spooner had advocated the use of violence to abolish slavery, he denounced the Republicans' use of violence to prevent the Southern states from seceding during the American Civil War. He published several letters and pamphlets about the war, arguing that the Republican objective was not to eradicate slavery, but rather to preserve the Union by force. He blamed the bloodshed on Republican political leaders, such as Secretary of State William H. Seward and Senator Charles Sumner, who often criticized slavery but would not attack it on a constitutional basis, and who pursued military policies seen as vengeful and abusive.\n\nAlthough he denounced the institution of slavery, Spooner recognized the right of the Confederate States of America to secede as the manifestation of government by consent, a constitutional and legal principle fundamental to Spooner's philosophy; the Northern states, in contrast, were trying to deny the Southerners that right through military force. He \"vociferously opposed the Civil War, arguing that it violated the right of the southern states to secede from a Union that no longer represented them\". He believed they were attempting to restore the Southern states to the Union, against the wishes of Southerners. He argued that the right of the states to secede derives from the natural right of slaves to be free. This argument was unpopular in the North and in the South after the War began, as it conflicted with the official position of both governments.\n\nSpooner believed that it was beneficial for people to be self-employed so that they could enjoy the full benefits of their labor rather than having to share them with an employer. He argued that various forms of government intervention in the free market made it difficult for people to start their own businesses. For one, he believed that laws against high interest rates, or usury, prevented those with capital from extending credit because they could not be compensated for high risks of not being repaid: \"If a man have not capital of his own, upon which to bestow his labor, it is necessary that he be allowed to obtain it on credit. And in order that he may be able to obtain it on credit, it is necessary that he be allowed to contract for such a rate of interest as will induce a man, having surplus capital, to loan it to him; for the capitalist cannot, consistently with natural law, be compelled to loan his capital against his will. All legislative restraints upon the rate of interest, are, therefore, nothing less than arbitrary and tyrannical restraints upon a man's natural capacity amid natural right to hire capital, upon which to bestow his labor...The effect of usury laws, then, is to give a monopoly of the right of borrowing money, to those few, who can offer the most approved security\".\n\nSpooner also believed that government restrictions on issuance of private money made it inordinately difficult for individuals to obtain the capital on credit to start their own businesses, thereby putting them in a situation where \"a very large portion of them, to save themselves from starvation, have no alternative but to sell their labor to others\" and those who do employ others are only able to afford to pay \"far below what the laborers could produce, [than] if they themselves had the necessary capital to work with.\" Spooner said that there was \"a prohibitory tax – a tax of ten per cent. – on all notes issued for circulation as money, other than the notes of the United States and the national banks\" which he argued caused an artificial shortage of credit, and that eliminating this tax would result in making plenty of money available for lending such that: \"All the great establishments, of every kind, now in the hands of a few proprietors, but employing a great number of wage labourers, would be broken up; for few or no persons, who could hire capital and do business for themselves would consent to labour for wages for another\".\n\nGeorge Woodcock describes Spooner's essays as an \"eloquent elaboration\" of Josiah Warren and the early American development of Proudhon's ideas, and associates his works with that of Stephen Pearl Andrews. Woodcock also reports that both Lysander Spooner and William Batchelder Greene had been members of the socialist First International.\n\nSpooner continued to write and publish extensively during the decades following Reconstruction, producing works such as \"Natural Law or The Science of Justice\" and \"Trial By Jury\". In \"Trial By Jury\" he defended the doctrine of jury nullification, which holds that in a free society a trial jury not only has the authority to rule on the facts of the case, but also on the legitimacy of the law under which the case is tried. This doctrine would further allow juries to refuse to convict if they regard the law by which they are asked to convict as illegitimate. He became associated with Benjamin Tucker's anarchist journal \"Liberty\", which published all of his later works in serial format, and for which he wrote several editorial columns on current events. He argued that \"almost all fortunes are made out of the capital and labour of other men than those who realize them. Indeed, except by his sponging capital and labour from others\".\n\nSpooner died on May 14, 1887, at the age of 79 in his residence, 109 Myrtle Street, Boston. He never married, and had no children. Benjamin Tucker arranged his funeral service and wrote a \"loving obituary\", entitled \"Our Nestor Taken From Us\", which appeared in \"Liberty\" on May 28, and predicted \"that the name Lysander Spooner would be 'henceforth memorable among men'\".\n\nSpooner's influence extends to the wide range of topics he addressed during his lifetime. He is remembered primarily for his abolitionist activities and for his challenge to the Post Office monopoly, which had a lasting influence of significantly reducing postal rates. Spooner's writings contributed to the development of both left-libertarian and right-libertarian political theory in the United States, and were often reprinted in early libertarian journals such as the \"Rampart Journal\" and \"\". His writings were also a major influence on Austrian School economist Murray Rothbard and right-libertarian law professor and legal theorist Randy Barnett.\n\nIn January 2004, Laissez Faire Books established the Lysander Spooner Award for advancing the literature of liberty. The honor is awarded monthly to the most important contributions to right-libertarian literature, followed by an annual award to the winner.\n\nIn 2010, LAVA created the Lysander Spooner (Book of the Year) Award, which has been awarded annually since 2011. The LAVA Awards are held annually to honor excellence in books relating to the principles of liberty, with the Lysander Spooner Award being the grand prize award.\n\nSpooner's \"The Unconstitutionality of Slavery\" was cited in the 2008 Supreme Court case \"District of Columbia v. Heller\", which struck down the federal district's ban on handguns. Justice Antonin Scalia, writing for the court, quotes Spooner as saying the right to bear arms was necessary for those who wanted to take a stand against slavery. It was also cited by Justice Clarence Thomas in his concurring opinion in \"McDonald v. Chicago\", another firearms case, the following year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9604", "title": "Many-worlds interpretation", "text": "Many-worlds interpretation\n\nThe many-worlds interpretation is an interpretation of quantum mechanics that asserts the objective reality of the universal wavefunction and denies the actuality of wavefunction collapse. Many-worlds implies that all possible alternate histories and futures are real, each representing an actual \"world\" (or \"universe\"). In layman's terms, the hypothesis states there is a very large—perhaps infinite—number of universes, and everything that could possibly have happened in our past, but did not, has occurred in the past of some other universe or universes. The theory is also referred to as MWI, the relative state formulation, the Everett interpretation, the theory of the universal wavefunction, many-universes interpretation, multiverse theory or just many-worlds.\n\nThe original relative state formulation is due to Hugh Everett in 1957. Later, this formulation was popularized and renamed \"many-worlds\" by Bryce Seligman DeWitt in the 1960s and 1970s. The decoherence approaches to interpreting quantum theory have been further explored and developed, becoming quite popular. MWI is one of many multiverse hypotheses in physics and philosophy. It is currently considered a mainstream interpretation along with the other decoherence interpretations, collapse theories (including the historical Copenhagen interpretation), and hidden variable theories such as the Bohmian mechanics.\n\nBefore many-worlds, reality had always been viewed as a single unfolding history. Many-worlds, however, views historical reality as a many-branched tree, wherein every possible quantum outcome is realised. Many-worlds reconciles the observation of non-deterministic events, such as random radioactive decay, with the fully deterministic equations of quantum physics.\n\nIn many-worlds, the subjective appearance of wavefunction collapse is explained by the mechanism of quantum decoherence, and this is supposed to resolve all of the correlation paradoxes of quantum theory, such as the EPR paradox and Schrödinger's cat, since every possible outcome of every event defines or exists in its own \"history\" or \"world\".\n\nIn Dublin in 1952 Erwin Schrödinger gave a lecture in which at one point he jocularly warned his audience that what he was about to say might \"seem lunatic\". He went on to assert that what the equation that won him a Nobel prize seems to be describing is several different histories, they are \"not alternatives but all really happen simultaneously\". This is the earliest known reference to the many-worlds.\n\nAlthough several versions of many-worlds have been proposed since Hugh Everett's original work, they all contain one key idea: the equations of physics that model the time evolution of systems \"without\" embedded observers are sufficient for modelling systems which \"do\" contain observers; in particular there is no observation-triggered wave function collapse which the Copenhagen interpretation proposes. Provided the theory is linear with respect to the wavefunction, the exact form of the quantum dynamics modelled, be it the non-relativistic Schrödinger equation, relativistic quantum field theory or some form of quantum gravity or string theory, does not alter the validity of MWI since MWI is a metatheory applicable to all linear quantum theories, and there is no experimental evidence for any non-linearity of the wavefunction in physics. MWI's main conclusion is that the universe (or multiverse in this context) is composed of a quantum superposition of very many, possibly even non-denumerably infinitely many, increasingly divergent, non-communicating parallel universes or quantum worlds.\n\nThe idea of MWI originated in Everett's Princeton Ph.D. thesis \"The Theory of the Universal Wavefunction\", developed under his thesis advisor John Archibald Wheeler, a shorter summary of which was published in 1957 entitled \"Relative State Formulation of Quantum Mechanics\" (Wheeler contributed the title \"relative state\"; Everett originally called his approach the \"Correlation Interpretation\", where \"correlation\" refers to quantum entanglement). The phrase \"many-worlds\" is due to Bryce DeWitt, who was responsible for the wider popularisation of Everett's theory, which had been largely ignored for the first decade after publication. DeWitt's phrase \"many-worlds\" has become so much more popular than Everett's \"Universal Wavefunction\" or Everett–Wheeler's \"Relative State Formulation\" that many forget that this is only a difference of terminology; the content of both of Everett's papers and DeWitt's popular article is the same.\n\nThe many-worlds interpretation shares many similarities with later, other \"post-Everett\" interpretations of quantum mechanics which also use decoherence to explain the process of measurement or wavefunction collapse. MWI treats the other histories or worlds as real since it regards the universal wavefunction as the \"basic physical entity\" or \"the fundamental entity, obeying at all times a deterministic wave equation\". The other decoherent interpretations, such as consistent histories, the Existential Interpretation etc., either regard the extra quantum worlds as metaphorical in some sense, or are agnostic about their reality; it is sometimes hard to distinguish between the different varieties. MWI is distinguished by two qualities: it assumes realism, which it assigns to the wavefunction, and it has the minimal formal structure possible, rejecting any hidden variables, quantum potential, any form of a collapse postulate (i.e., Copenhagenism) or mental postulates (such as the many-minds interpretation makes).\n\nDecoherent interpretations of many-worlds using einselection to explain how a small number of classical pointer states can emerge from the enormous Hilbert space of superpositions have been proposed by Wojciech H. Zurek. \"Under scrutiny of the environment, only pointer states remain unchanged. Other states decohere into mixtures of stable pointer states that can persist, and, in this sense, exist: They are einselected.\" These ideas complement MWI and bring the interpretation in line with our perception of reality.\n\nMany-worlds is often referred to as a theory, rather than just an interpretation, by those who propose that many-worlds can make testable predictions (such as David Deutsch) or is falsifiable (such as Everett) or by those who propose that all the other, non-MW interpretations, are inconsistent, illogical or unscientific in their handling of measurements; Hugh Everett argued that his formulation was a metatheory, since it made statements about other interpretations of quantum theory; that it was the \"only completely coherent approach to explaining both the contents of quantum mechanics and the appearance of the world.\" Deutsch is dismissive that many-worlds is an \"interpretation\", saying that calling it an interpretation \"is like talking about dinosaurs as an 'interpretation' of fossil records.\"\n\nAs with the other interpretations of quantum mechanics, the many-worlds interpretation is motivated by behavior that can be illustrated by the double-slit experiment. When particles of light (or anything else) are passed through the double slit, a calculation assuming wave-like behavior of light can be used to identify where the particles are likely to be observed. Yet when the particles are observed in this experiment, they appear as particles (i.e., at definite places) and not as non-localized waves.\n\nSome versions of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics proposed a process of \"collapse\" in which an indeterminate quantum system would probabilistically collapse down onto, or select, just one determinate outcome to \"explain\" this phenomenon of observation. Wavefunction collapse was widely regarded as artificial and \"ad hoc\", so an alternative interpretation in which the behavior of measurement could be understood from more fundamental physical principles was considered desirable.\n\nEverett's Ph.D. work provided such an alternative interpretation. Everett stated that for a composite system – for example a subject (the \"observer\" or measuring apparatus) observing an object (the \"observed\" system, such as a particle) – the statement that either the observer or the observed has a well-defined state is meaningless; in modern parlance, the observer and the observed have become entangled; we can only specify the state of one \"relative\" to the other, i.e., the state of the observer and the observed are correlated \"after\" the observation is made. This led Everett to derive from the unitary, deterministic dynamics alone (i.e., without assuming wavefunction collapse) the notion of a \"relativity of states\".\n\nEverett noticed that the unitary, deterministic dynamics alone decreed that after an observation is made each element of the quantum superposition of the combined subject–object wavefunction contains two \"relative states\": a \"collapsed\" object state and an associated observer who has observed the same collapsed outcome; what the observer sees and the state of the object have become correlated by the act of measurement or observation. The subsequent evolution of each pair of relative subject–object states proceeds with complete indifference as to the presence or absence of the other elements, \"as if\" wavefunction collapse has occurred, which has the consequence that later observations are always consistent with the earlier observations. Thus the \"appearance\" of the object's wavefunction's collapse has emerged from the unitary, deterministic theory itself. (This answered Einstein's early criticism of quantum theory, that the theory should define what is observed, not for the observables to define the theory). Since the wavefunction merely appears to have collapsed then, Everett reasoned, there was no need to actually assume that it had collapsed. And so, invoking Occam's razor, he removed the postulate of wavefunction collapse from the theory.\n\nAccording to Martin Gardner, the \"other\" worlds of MWI have two different interpretations: real or unreal; he claims that Stephen Hawking and Steven Weinberg both favour the unreal interpretation. Gardner also claims that the nonreal interpretation is favoured by the majority of physicists, whereas the \"realist\" view is only supported by MWI experts such as Deutsch and Bryce DeWitt. Hawking has said that \"according to Feynman's idea\", all the other histories are as \"equally real\" as our own, and Martin Gardner reports Hawking saying that MWI is \"trivially true\". In a 1983 interview, Hawking also said he regarded the MWI as \"self-evidently correct\" but was dismissive towards questions about the interpretation of quantum mechanics, saying, \"When I hear of Schrödinger's cat, I reach for my gun.\" In the same interview, he also said, \"But, look: All that one does, really, is to calculate conditional probabilities—in other words, the probability of A happening, given B. I think that that's all the many worlds interpretation is. Some people overlay it with a lot of mysticism about the wave function splitting into different parts. But all that you're calculating is conditional probabilities.\" Elsewhere Hawking contrasted his attitude towards the \"reality\" of physical theories with that of his colleague Roger Penrose, saying, \"He's a Platonist and I'm a positivist. He's worried that Schrödinger's cat is in a quantum state, where it is half alive and half dead. He feels that can't correspond to reality. But that doesn't bother me. I don't demand that a theory correspond to reality because I don't know what it is. Reality is not a quality you can test with litmus paper. All I'm concerned with is that the theory should predict the results of measurements. Quantum theory does this very successfully.\" For his own part, Penrose agrees with Hawking that QM applied to the universe implies MW, although he considers the current lack of a successful theory of quantum gravity negates the claimed universality of conventional QM.\n\nKim Joris Boström has proposed a non-relativistic quantum mechanical theory that combines elements of the de Broglie–Bohm mechanics and that of Everett’s many-‘worlds’. In particular, the unreal MW interpretation of Hawking and Weinberg is similar to the Bohmian concept of unreal empty branch ‘worlds’:\n\nAttempts have been made, by many-world advocates and others, over the years to \"derive\" the Born rule, rather than just conventionally \"assume\" it, so as to reproduce all the required statistical behaviour associated with quantum mechanics. There is no consensus on whether this has been successful.\n\nEverett (1957) briefly derived the Born rule by showing that the Born rule was the only possible rule, and that its derivation was as justified as the procedure for defining probability in classical mechanics. Everett stopped doing research in theoretical physics shortly after obtaining his Ph.D., but his work on probability has been extended by a number of people. Andrew Gleason (1957) and James Hartle (1965) independently reproduced Everett's work which was later extended. These results are closely related to Gleason's theorem, a mathematical result according to which the Born probability measure is the only one on Hilbert space that can be constructed purely from the quantum state vector.\n\nBryce DeWitt and his doctoral student R. Neill Graham later provided alternative (and longer) derivations to Everett's derivation of the Born rule. They demonstrated that the norm of the worlds where the usual statistical rules of quantum theory broke down vanished, in the limit where the number of measurements went to infinity.\n\nA decision-theoretic derivation of the Born rule from Everettarian assumptions, was produced by David Deutsch (1999) and refined by Wallace (2002–2009) and Saunders (2004). Some reviews have been positive, although the status of these arguments remains highly controversial; some theoretical physicists have taken them as supporting the case for parallel universes. In the \"New Scientist\" article, reviewing their presentation at a September 2007 conference, Andy Albrecht, a physicist at the University of California at Davis, is quoted as saying \"This work will go down as one of the most important developments in the history of science.\"\n\nThe Born rule and the collapse of the wave function have been obtained in the framework of the relative-state formulation of quantum mechanics by Armando V. D. B. Assis. He has proved that the Born rule and the collapse of the wave function follow from a game-theoretical strategy, namely the Nash equilibrium within a von Neumann zero-sum game between nature and observer.\n\nWojciech H. Zurek (2005) has produced a derivation of the Born rule, where decoherence has replaced Deutsch's informatic assumptions. Lutz Polley (2000) has produced Born rule derivations where the informatic assumptions are replaced by symmetry arguments.\n\nCharles Sebens and Sean M. Carroll, building on work by Lev Vaidman, proposed a similar approach based on self-locating uncertainty. In this approach, decoherence creates multiple identical copies of observers, who can assign credences to being on different branches using the Born rule.\n\nIn Everett's formulation, a measuring apparatus M and an object system S form a composite system, each of which prior to measurement exists in well-defined (but time-dependent) states. Measurement is regarded as causing M and S to interact. After S interacts with M, it is no longer possible to describe either system by an independent state. According to Everett, the only meaningful descriptions of each system are relative states: for example the relative state of S given the state of M or the relative state of M given the state of S. In DeWitt's formulation, the state of S after a sequence of measurements is given by a quantum superposition of states, each one corresponding to an alternative measurement history of S.\nFor example, consider the smallest possible truly quantum system S, as shown in the illustration. This describes for instance, the spin-state of an electron. Considering a specific axis (say the \"z\"-axis) the north pole represents spin \"up\" and the south pole, spin \"down\". The superposition states of the system are described by (the surface of) a sphere called the Bloch sphere. To perform a measurement on S, it is made to interact with another similar system M. After the interaction, the combined system is described by a state that ranges over a six-dimensional space (the reason for the number six is explained in the article on the Bloch sphere). This six-dimensional object can also be regarded as a quantum superposition of two \"alternative histories\" of the original system S, one in which \"up\" was observed and the other in which \"down\" was observed. Each subsequent binary measurement (that is interaction with a system M) causes a similar split in the history tree. Thus after three measurements, the system can be regarded as a quantum superposition of 8 = 2 × 2 × 2 copies of the original system S.\n\nThe accepted terminology is somewhat misleading because it is incorrect to regard the universe as splitting at certain times; at any given instant there is one state in one universe.\n\nIn his 1957 doctoral dissertation, Everett proposed that rather than modeling an isolated quantum system subject to external observation, one could mathematically model an object as well as its observers as purely physical systems within the mathematical framework developed by Paul Dirac, von Neumann and others, discarding altogether the \"ad hoc\" mechanism of wave function collapse.\n\nSince Everett's original work, there have appeared a number of similar formalisms in the literature. One such is the relative state formulation. It makes two assumptions: first, the wavefunction is not simply a description of the object's state, but that it actually is entirely equivalent to the object, a claim it has in common with some other interpretations. Secondly, observation or measurement has no special laws or mechanics, unlike in the Copenhagen interpretation which considers the wavefunction collapse as a special kind of event which occurs as a result of observation. Instead, measurement in the relative state formulation is the consequence of a configuration change in the memory of an observer described by the same basic wave physics as the object being modeled.\n\nThe many-worlds interpretation is DeWitt's popularisation of Everett's work, who had referred to the combined observer–object system as being split by an observation, each split corresponding to the different or multiple possible outcomes of an observation. These splits generate a possible tree as shown in the graphic below. Subsequently, DeWitt introduced the term \"world\" to describe a complete measurement history of an observer, which corresponds roughly to a single branch of that tree. Note that \"splitting\" in this sense is hardly new or even quantum mechanical. The idea of a space of complete alternative histories had already been used in the theory of probability since the mid-1930s for instance to model Brownian motion. \n\nUnder the many-worlds interpretation, the Schrödinger equation, or relativistic analog, holds all the time everywhere. An observation or measurement is modeled by applying the wave equation to the entire system comprising the observer \"and\" the object. One consequence is that every observation can be thought of as causing the combined observer–object's wavefunction to change into a quantum superposition of two or more non-interacting branches, or split into many \"worlds\". Since many observation-like events have happened and are constantly happening, there are an enormous and growing number of simultaneously existing states.\n\nIf a system is composed of two or more subsystems, the system's state will be a superposition of products of the subsystems' states. Each product of subsystem states in the overall superposition evolves over time independently of other products. Once the subsystems interact, their states have become correlated or entangled and it is no longer possible to consider them independent of one another. In Everett's terminology each subsystem state was now \"correlated\" with its \"relative state\", since each subsystem must now be considered relative to the other subsystems with which it has interacted.\n\nMWI removes the observer-dependent role in the quantum measurement process by replacing wavefunction collapse with quantum decoherence. Since the role of the observer lies at the heart of most if not all \"quantum paradoxes,\" this automatically resolves a number of problems; see for example Schrödinger's cat thought experiment, the EPR paradox, von Neumann's \"boundary problem\" and even wave-particle duality. Quantum cosmology also becomes intelligible, since there is no need anymore for an observer outside of the universe.\n\nMWI is a realist, deterministic, arguably local theory, akin to classical physics (including the theory of relativity), at the expense of losing counterfactual definiteness. MWI achieves this by removing wavefunction collapse, which is indeterministic and non-local, from the deterministic and local equations of quantum theory.\n\nMWI (or other, broader multiverse considerations) provides a context for the anthropic principle which may provide an explanation for the fine-tuned universe.\n\nMWI, being a decoherent formulation, is axiomatically more streamlined than the Copenhagen and other collapse interpretations; and thus favoured under certain interpretations of Occam's razor. Of course there are other decoherent interpretations that also possess this advantage with respect to the collapse interpretations.\n\nOne of the salient properties of the many-worlds interpretation is that it does not require an exceptional method of wave function collapse to explain it. \"It seems that there is no experiment distinguishing the MWI from other no-collapse theories such as Bohmian mechanics or other variants of MWI... In most no-collapse interpretations, the evolution of the quantum state of the Universe is the same. Still, one might imagine that there is an experiment distinguishing the MWI from another no-collapse interpretation based on the difference in the correspondence between the formalism and the experience (the results of experiments).\"\n\nHowever, in 1985, David Deutsch published three related thought experiments which could test the theory vs the Copenhagen interpretation. The experiments require macroscopic quantum state preparation and quantum erasure by a hypothetical quantum computer which is currently outside experimental possibility. Since then Lockwood (1989), Vaidman and others have made similar proposals. These proposals also require an advanced technology which is able to place a macroscopic object in a coherent superposition, another task which it is uncertain will ever be possible to perform. Many other controversial ideas have been put forward though, such as a recent claim that cosmological observations could test the theory, and another claim by Rainer Plaga (1997), published in \"Foundations of Physics\", that communication might be possible between worlds.\n\nIn the Copenhagen interpretation, the mathematics of quantum mechanics allows one to predict probabilities for the occurrence of various events. When an event occurs, it becomes part of the definite reality, and alternative possibilities do not. There is no necessity to say anything definite about what is not observed.\n\nAny event that changes the number of observers in the universe may have experimental consequences. Quantum tunnelling to a new vacuum state would reduce the number of observers to zero (i.e., kill all life). Some cosmologists argue that the universe is in a false vacuum state and that consequently the universe should have already experienced quantum tunnelling to a true vacuum state. This has not happened and is cited as evidence in favor of many-worlds. In some worlds, quantum tunnelling to a true vacuum state has happened but most other worlds escape this tunneling and remain viable. This can be thought of as a variation on quantum suicide.\n\nThe \"many-minds\" interpretation is a multi-world interpretation that defines the splitting of reality on the level of the observers' minds. In this, it differs from Everett's many-worlds interpretation, in which there is no special role for the observer's mind.\n\nThe many-worlds interpretation is very vague about the ways to determine when splitting happens, and nowadays usually the criterion is that the two branches have decohered. However, present day understanding of decoherence does not allow a completely precise, self-contained way to say when the two branches have decohered/\"do not interact\", and hence many-worlds interpretation remains arbitrary. This objection is saying that it is not clear what is precisely meant by branching, and point to the lack of self-contained criteria specifying branching.\n\nMWI states that there is no special role, or need for precise definition of measurement in MWI, yet Everett uses the word \"measurement\" repeatedly throughout its exposition.\n\nThe splitting of worlds forward in time, but not backwards in time (i.e., merging worlds), is time asymmetric and incompatible with the time symmetric nature of Schrödinger's equation, or CPT invariance in general.\n\nThere is circularity in Everett's measurement theory. Under the assumptions made by Everett, there are no 'good observations' as defined by him, and since his analysis of the observational process depends on the latter, it is void of any meaning. The concept of a 'good observation' is the projection postulate in disguise and Everett's analysis simply derives this postulate by having assumed it, without any discussion.\n\nTalk of probability in Everett presumes the existence of a preferred basis to identify measurement outcomes for the probabilities to range over. But the existence of a preferred basis can only be established by the process of decoherence, which is itself probabilistic or arbitrary.\n\nWe cannot be sure that the universe is a quantum multiverse until we have a theory of everything and, in particular, a successful theory of quantum gravity. If the final theory of everything is non-linear with respect to wavefunctions then many-worlds would be invalid.\n\nConservation of energy is grossly violated if at every instant near-infinite amounts of new matter are generated to create the new universes.\n\nOccam's razor rules against a plethora of unobservable universes – Occam would prefer just one universe; i.e., any non-MWI.\n\nUnphysical universes: If a state is a superposition of two states formula_3 and formula_4, i.e., formula_5, i.e., weighted by coefficients \"a\" and \"b\", then if formula_6, what principle allows a universe with vanishingly small probability \"b\" to be instantiated on an equal footing with the much more probable one with probability \"a\"? This seems to throw away the information in the probability amplitudes.\n\nViolation of the principle of locality, which contradicts special relativity: MWI splitting is instant and total: this may conflict with relativity, since an alien in the Andromeda galaxy can't know I collapse an electron over here before she collapses hers there: the relativity of simultaneity says we can't say which electron collapsed first – so which one splits off another universe first? This leads to a hopeless muddle with everyone splitting differently. Note: EPR is not a get-out here, as the alien's and my electrons need never have been part of the same quantum, i.e., entangled.\n\nThere is a wide range of claims that are considered \"many-worlds\" interpretations. It was often claimed by those who do not believe in MWI that Everett himself was not entirely clear as to what he believed; however, MWI adherents (such as DeWitt, Tegmark, Deutsch and others) believe they fully understand Everett's meaning as implying the literal existence of the other worlds. Additionally, recent biographical sources make it clear that Everett believed in the literal reality of the other quantum worlds. Everett's son reported that Hugh Everett \"never wavered in his belief over his many-worlds theory\". Also Everett was reported to believe \"his many-worlds theory guaranteed him immortality\".\n\nOne of MWI's strongest advocates is David Deutsch. According to Deutsch, the single photon interference pattern observed in the double slit experiment can be explained by interference of photons in multiple universes. Viewed in this way, the single photon interference experiment is indistinguishable from the multiple photon interference experiment. In a more practical vein, in one of the earliest papers on quantum computing, he suggested that parallelism that results from the validity of MWI could lead to \"a method by which certain probabilistic tasks can be performed faster by a universal quantum computer than by any classical restriction of it\". Deutsch has also proposed that when reversible computers become conscious then MWI will be testable (at least against \"naive\" Copenhagenism) via the reversible observation of spin.\n\nAsher Peres was an outspoken critic of MWI. For example, a section in his 1993 textbook had the title \"Everett's interpretation and other bizarre theories\". Peres not only questioned whether MWI is really an \"interpretation\", but rather, if \"any\" interpretations of quantum mechanics are needed at all. An interpretation can be regarded as a purely formal transformation, which adds nothing to the rules of the quantum mechanics. Peres seems to suggest that positing the existence of an infinite number of non-communicating parallel universes is highly suspect per those who interpret it as a violation of Occam's razor, i.e., that it does not minimize the number of hypothesized entities. However, it is understood that the number of elementary particles are not a gross violation of Occam's razor, one counts the types, not the tokens. Max Tegmark remarks that the alternative to many-worlds is \"many words\", an allusion to the complexity of von Neumann's collapse postulate. On the other hand, the same derogatory qualification \"many words\" is often applied to MWI by its critics who see it as a word game which obfuscates rather than clarifies by confounding the von Neumann branching of possible worlds with the Schrödinger parallelism of many worlds in superposition.\n\nMWI is considered by some to be unfalsifiable and hence unscientific because the multiple parallel universes are non-communicating, in the sense that no information can be passed between them. Others claim MWI is directly testable. Everett regarded MWI as falsifiable since any test that falsifies conventional quantum theory would also falsify MWI.\n\nAdvocates of MWI often cite a poll of 72 \"leading cosmologists and other quantum field theorists\" conducted by the American political scientist David Raub in 1995 showing 58% agreement with \"Yes, I think MWI is true\".\n\nHowever, the poll is controversial. For example, Victor J. Stenger remarks that Murray Gell-Mann's published work explicitly rejects the existence of simultaneous parallel universes. Collaborating with James Hartle, Gell-Mann is working toward the development a more \"palatable\" \"post-Everett quantum mechanics\". Stenger thinks it's fair to say that most physicists dismiss the many-world interpretation as too extreme, while noting it \"has merit in finding a place for the observer inside the system being analyzed and doing away with the troublesome notion of wave function collapse\".\n\nMax Tegmark also reports the result of a \"highly unscientific\" poll taken at a 1997 quantum mechanics workshop. According to Tegmark, \"The many worlds interpretation (MWI) scored second, comfortably ahead of the consistent histories and Bohm interpretations.\" Such polls have been taken at other conferences, for example, in response to Sean Carroll's observation, \"As crazy as it sounds, most working physicists buy into the many-worlds theory\" Michael Nielsen counters: \"at a quantum computing conference at Cambridge in 1998, a many-worlder surveyed the audience of approximately 200 people... Many-worlds did just fine, garnering support on a level comparable to, but somewhat below, Copenhagen and decoherence.\" However, Nielsen notes that it seemed most attendees found it to be a waste of time: Asher Peres \"got a huge and sustained round of applause… when he got up at the end of the polling and asked 'And who here believes the laws of physics are decided by a democratic vote?'\" \n\nA 2005 poll of fewer than 40 students and researchers taken after a course on the Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics at the Institute for Quantum Computing University of Waterloo found \"Many Worlds (and decoherence)\" to be the least favored.\n\nA 2011 poll of 33 participants at an Austrian conference found 6 endorsed MWI, 8 \"Information-based/information-theoretical\", and 14 Copenhagen; the authors remark that the results are similar to the previous Tegmark's 1998 poll.\n\nSpeculative physics deals with questions which are also discussed in science fiction.\n\nQuantum suicide, as a thought experiment, was published independently by Hans Moravec in 1987 and Bruno Marchal in 1988 and was independently developed further by Max Tegmark in 1998. It attempts to distinguish between the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics and the Everett many-worlds interpretation by means of a variation of the Schrödinger's cat thought experiment, from the cat's point of view. Quantum immortality refers to the subjective experience of surviving quantum suicide regardless of the odds.\n\nAnother speculation is that the separate worlds remain weakly coupled (e.g., by gravity) permitting \"communication between parallel universes\". A possible test of this using quantum-optical equipment is described in a 1997 \"Foundations of Physics\" article by Rainer Plaga. It involves an isolated ion in an ion trap, a quantum measurement that would yield two parallel worlds (their difference just being in the detection of a single photon), and the excitation of the ion from only one of these worlds. If the excited ion can be detected from the other parallel universe, then this would constitute direct evidence in support of the many-worlds interpretation and would automatically exclude the orthodox, \"logical\", and \"many-histories\" interpretations. The reason the ion is isolated is to make it not participate immediately in the decoherence which insulates the parallel world branches, therefore allowing it to act as a gateway between the two worlds, and if the measure apparatus could perform the measurements quickly enough before the gateway ion is decoupled then the test would succeed (with electronic computers the necessary time window between the two worlds would be in a time scale of milliseconds or nanoseconds, and if the measurements are taken by humans then a few seconds would still be enough). R. Plaga shows that macroscopic decoherence timescales are a possibility. The proposed test is based on technical equipment described in a 1993 \"Physical Review\" article by Itano et al. and R. Plaga says that this level of technology is enough to realize the proposed inter-world communication experiment. The necessary technology for precision measurements of single ions already exists since the 1970s, and the ion recommended for excitation is Hg. The excitation methodology is described by Itano et al. and the time needed for it is given by the Rabi flopping formula.\n\nSuch a test as described by R. Plaga would mean that energy transfer is possible between parallel worlds. This does not violate the fundamental principles of physics because these require energy conservation only for the whole universe and not for the single parallel branches. Neither the excitation of the single ion (which is a degree of freedom of the proposed system) leads to decoherence, something which is proven by Welcher Weg detectors which can excite atoms without momentum transfer (which causes the loss of coherence).\n\nThe proposed test would allow for low-bandwidth inter-world communication, the limiting factors of bandwidth and time being dependent on the technology of the equipment. Because of the time needed to determine the state of the partially decohered isolated excited ion based on Itano et al.'s methodology, the ion would decohere by the time its state is determined during the experiment, so Plaga's proposal would pass just enough information between the two worlds to confirm their parallel existence and nothing more. The author contemplates that with increased bandwidth, one could even transfer television imagery across the parallel worlds. For example, Itano et al.'s methodology could be improved (by lowering the time needed for state determination of the excited ion) if a more efficient process were found for the detection of fluorescence radiation using 194 nm photons.\n\nA 1991 article by J. Polchinski also supports the view that inter-world communication is a theoretical possibility. Other authors in a 1994 preprint article also contemplated similar ideas.\n\nThe reason inter-world communication seems like a possibility is because decoherence which separates the parallel worlds is never fully complete, therefore weak influences from one parallel world to another can still pass between them, and these should be measurable with advanced technology. Deutsch proposed such an experiment in a 1985 \"International Journal of Theoretical Physics\" article, but the technology it requires involves human-level artificial intelligence.\n\nMany MWI proponents assert that every physically possible event has to be represented in the multiversal stack, and by definition this would include highly unlikely scenarios and timelines.\nBryce Seligman DeWitt has stated that \"[Everett, Wheeler and Graham] do not in the end exclude any element of the superposition. All the worlds are there, even those in which everything goes wrong and all the statistical laws break down.\" \nBorrowing a phase from T.H. White's The Once and Future King, Murray Gell-Mann describes the implications of his Totalitarian principle, as \"Everything not forbidden is compulsory.\"\nMax Tegmark has affirmed in numerous statements that absurd or highly unlikely events are inevitable under the MWI interpretation. To quote Tegmark, \"Things inconsistent with the laws of physics will never happen - everything else will... it's important to keep track of the statistics, since even if everything conceivable happens somewhere, really freak events happen only exponentially rarely\". \nFrank J. Tipler, although a strong advocate for the many-worlds interpretation, has expressed some skepticism regarding this aspect of the theory. In a 2015 interview he stated \"We simply don't know...it might be that the modulus over the wavefunction of that possibility [i.e. an extremely absurd yet physically possible event] is zero in which case there is no such world...There are universes out there, which you could imagine which...would not be actualized.\" \n\nThe many-worlds interpretation has some similarity to modal realism in philosophy, which is the view that the possible worlds used to interpret modal claims exist and are of a kind with the actual world. Unlike the possible worlds of philosophy, however, in quantum mechanics counterfactual alternatives can influence the results of experiments, as in the Elitzur–Vaidman bomb-testing problem or the Quantum Zeno effect. Also, while the worlds of the many-worlds interpretation all share the same physical laws, modal realism postulates a world for every way things could conceivably have been.\n\nThe many-worlds interpretation could be one possible way to resolve the paradoxes that one would expect to arise \"if\" time travel turns out to be permitted by physics (permitting closed timelike curves and thus violating causality). Entering the past would itself be a quantum event causing branching, and therefore the timeline accessed by the time traveller simply would be another timeline of many. In that sense, it would make the Novikov self-consistency principle unnecessary.\n\n\"Star Trek\" uses many-worlds in many stories. In the \"\", Spock and Kirk and encounter versions of themselves from the other universe. This Mirror Universe is continued in \"\", \",\" and \"\", with episodes arching between the Terran empire and the Alliance, where characters find mirror versions of themselves and other characters who are currently dead in the central universe, or dead in the parallel universe. In of \"\", Worf crosses over into a parallel universe while piloting a shuttlecraft and manages to encounter several other universes. The TNG finale \"\" uses the concept heavily, as Picard jumps between times. \n\nMichael Crichton's 1999 novel, \"Timeline\", is about time travel into the past. The technology used in the book is based upon the existence of the MWI's multiverse as described by Everett.\n\nThe author Neal Stephenson drew on the many-worlds theory for some aspects of his 2008 novel \"Anathem\".\n\nA more recent iteration, \"Rick and Morty\", uses the many-worlds interpretation as a basis for the occurrences in the show, with Rick using a portal gun to casually travel between timelines. The cartoon also makes an allusion to Schrödinger's Cat in an episode in which they split their existence into two hypothetical, equally possible existences.\n\nIn episode 5 of the Netflix series, \"Stranger Things\", the protagonists' middle school teacher Scott Clarke specifically mentions the many-worlds theory when asked about the possibility of \"theoretical\" alternate dimensions.\n\nMany worlds interpretation was also used in The Time Ships by Stephen Baxter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37504265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37504265", "title": "Michael Banner", "text": "Michael Banner\n\nMichael Banner (born 1961) is Dean and Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. From 2004–2006 he was Director of the UK Economic and Social Research Council's Genomics Research Forum and Professor of Public Policy and Ethics in the Life Sciences at the University of Edinburgh, and from 1994 to 2004 F.D. Maurice Professor of Moral and Social Theology, King’s College, London. Well known in science and public policy arenas, he was also a member of the Human Tissue Authority, Chairman of the Home Office Animal Procedures Committee from 1998 to 2006 and a member of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics from 2014 to 2016.\n\nProf. Banner read Philosophy and Theology at Balliol College, Oxford (MA 1985, DPhil 1986). Earlier appointments included Bampton Research Fellow, St Peter's College, Oxford; Dean, Chaplain, Fellow and Director of Studies in Philosophy and Theology, Peterhouse, Cambridge; and FD Maurice Professor of Moral and Social Theology, King's College, London. He has been chairman of HM Government Committee of Enquiry on the Ethics of Emerging Technologies in Breeding Farm Animals and the CJD Incidents Panel, Department of Health. He has also been a member of the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution and the Agriculture and Environment Biotechnology Commission.\n\nApart from his government appointments, Michael Banner came to prominence with his book \"Christian Ethics and Contemporary Moral Problems\", concerning which Stanley Hauerwas wrote that Banner is \"one of the brightest and most interesting young people doing ethics on the scene today\".\n\nBanner was the Peden Visiting Scholar in the Department of Anthropology at Rice University in early 2012, and gave the Bampton Lectures in Oxford in 2013, resulting in the recently published \"The Ethics of Everyday Life: Moral Theology, Social Anthropology, and the Imagination of the Human\" (Oxford University Press).\n\n"}
{"id": "10306808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10306808", "title": "Monas Hieroglyphica", "text": "Monas Hieroglyphica\n\nThe Monas Hieroglyphica (or \"Hieroglyphic Monad\") is an esoteric symbol invented and designed by John Dee, the Elizabethan Magus and Court Astrologer of Elizabeth I of England. It is also the title of the 1564 book in which Dee expounds the meaning of his symbol.\n\nThe Hieroglyphic embodies Dee's vision of the unity of the Cosmos and is a composite of various esoteric and astrological symbols. Dee wrote a commentary on it which serves as a primer of its mysteries. However, the obscurity of the commentary is such that it is believed that Dee used it as a sort of textbook for a more detailed explanation of the Hieroglyph which he would give in person. In the absence of any remaining detail of this explanation the full significance of the glyph may never be known.\n\nThe existence of the Hieroglyph links Dee to Rosicrucianism, but in what way remains obscure. The Hieroglyph appears on a page of the Rosicrucian Manifesto \"Chymical Wedding of Christian Rosenkreutz\", beside the text of the invitation to the Royal Wedding given to Rosenkreutz who narrates the work. It is indeed at least possible that Dee showed the Glyph to Johannes Valentinus Andreae or even an associate during one of his visits to Central Europe. However, whether Andreae's claims of authoring the treatise hold any weight is still a hotly debated question among scholars.\n\nFrances Yates notes that Dee's influence later \"spread to Puritanism in the New World through John Winthrop, Jr., an alchemist and a follower of Dee; Winthrop used the 'monas' as his personal mark\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20476", "title": "Murray Gell-Mann", "text": "Murray Gell-Mann\n\nMurray Gell-Mann (; born September 15, 1929) is an American physicist who received the 1969 Nobel Prize in physics for his work on the theory of elementary particles. He is the Robert Andrews Millikan Professor of Theoretical Physics Emeritus at the California Institute of Technology, a distinguished fellow and co-founder of the Santa Fe Institute, a professor of physics at the University of New Mexico, and the Presidential Professor of Physics and Medicine at the University of Southern California.\n\nGell-Mann has spent several periods at CERN, among others as a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation fellow in 1972.\n\nGell-Mann was born in lower Manhattan into a family of Jewish immigrants from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, specifically from Chernivtsi in present-day Ukraine. His parents were Pauline (née Reichstein) and Arthur Isidore Gell-Mann, who taught English as a Second Language (ESL).\n\nPropelled by an intense boyhood curiosity and love for nature and mathematics, he graduated valedictorian from the Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School and subsequently entered Yale College at the age of 15 as a member of Jonathan Edwards College. At Yale, he participated in the William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition and was on the team representing Yale University (along with Murray Gerstenhaber and Henry O. Pollak) that won the second prize in 1947. Gell-Mann earned a bachelor's degree in physics from Yale in 1948 and a PhD in physics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1951. His supervisor at MIT was Victor Weisskopf.\n\nIn 1958, Gell-Mann and Richard Feynman, in parallel with the independent team of George Sudarshan and Robert Marshak, discovered the chiral structures of the weak interaction in physics. This work followed the experimental discovery of the violation of parity by Chien-Shiung Wu, as suggested by Chen Ning Yang and Tsung-Dao Lee, theoretically.\n\nGell-Mann's work in the 1950s involved recently discovered cosmic ray particles that came to be called kaons and hyperons. Classifying these particles led him to propose that a quantum number called strangeness would be conserved by the strong and the electromagnetic interactions, but not by the weak interactions. Another of Gell-Mann's ideas is the Gell-Mann–Okubo formula, which was, initially, a formula based on empirical results, but was later explained by his quark model. Gell-Mann and Abraham Pais were involved in explaining several puzzling aspects of the physics of these particles.\n\nIn 1961, this led him (and Kazuhiko Nishijima) to introduce a classification scheme for hadrons, elementary particles that participate in the strong interaction. (This scheme had been independently proposed by Yuval Ne'eman.) This scheme is now explained by the quark model. Gell-Mann referred to the scheme as the \"Eightfold Way\", because of the \"octets\" of particles in the classification. (The term is a reference to the eightfold way of Buddhism.)\n\nIn 1964, Gell-Mann and, independently, George Zweig went on to postulate the existence of quarks, particles of which the hadrons of this scheme are composed. The name was coined by Gell-Mann and is a reference to the novel \"Finnegans Wake\", by James Joyce (\"Three quarks for Muster Mark!\" book 2, episode 4.) Zweig had referred to the particles as \"aces\", but Gell-Mann's name caught on. Quarks, antiquarks, and gluons were soon established as the underlying elementary objects in the study of the structure of hadrons. He was awarded a Nobel Prize in physics in 1969 for his contributions and discoveries concerning the classification of elementary particles and their interactions.\n\nIn 1972 he and Harald Fritzsch introduced the conserved quantum number \"color charge\", and later, together with Heinrich Leutwyler, they coined the term quantum chromodynamics (QCD) as the gauge theory of the strong interaction. The quark model is a part of QCD, and it has been robust enough to accommodate in a natural fashion the discovery of new \"flavors\" of quarks, which superseded the eightfold way scheme.\n\nHe is currently the Robert Andrews Millikan Professor of Theoretical Physics Emeritus at California Institute of Technology as well as a University Professor in the Physics and Astronomy Department of the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and the Presidential Professor of Physics and Medicine at the University of Southern California. He is a member of the editorial board of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". In 1984 Gell-Mann co-founded the Santa Fe Institute—a non-profit theoretical research institute in Santa Fe, New Mexico—to study complex systems and disseminate the notion of a separate interdisciplinary study of complexity theory.\n\nHe was a postdoctoral fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in 1951, and a visiting research professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign from 1952 to 1953. He was a visiting associate professor at Columbia University and an associate professor at the University of Chicago in 1954–55 before moving to the California Institute of Technology, where he taught from 1955 until he retired in 1993.\nDuring the 1990s, Gell-Mann's interest turned to the emerging study of complexity. He played a central role in the founding of the Santa Fe Institute, where he continues to work as a distinguished professor.\n\nHe wrote a popular science book about these matters, \"The Quark and the Jaguar: Adventures in the Simple and the Complex\" (1994). The title of the book is taken from a line of a poem by Arthur Sze: \"The world of the quark has everything to do with a jaguar circling in the night\".\n\nThe author George Johnson has written a biography of Gell-Mann, \"Strange Beauty: Murray Gell-Mann, and the Revolution in 20th-Century Physics\" (1999), which was shortlisted for the Royal Society Book Prize. Gell-Mann has criticized it as inaccurate. The Nobel Prize–winning physicist Philip Anderson, in his chapter on Gell-Mann from a 2011 book, says that Johnson's biography is excellent. Both Anderson and Johnson say that Gell-Mann is a perfectionist and that his semibiography, \"The Quark and the Jaguar\" (1994) is consequently incomplete.\n\nIn 2012 he and his companion Mary McFadden published the book \"Mary McFadden: A Lifetime of Design, Collecting, and Adventure\".\n\nGell-Mann introduced, independently of George Zweig, the quark—constituents of all hadrons—having first identified the SU(3) flavor symmetry of hadrons. This symmetry is now understood to underlie the light quarks, extending isospin to include strangeness, a quantum number which he also discovered.\n\nHe developed the V−A theory of the weak interaction in collaboration with Richard Feynman. In the 1960s, he introduced current algebra as a method of systematically exploiting symmetries to extract predictions from quark models, in the absence of reliable dynamical theory. This method led to model-independent sum rules confirmed by experiment and provided starting points underpinning the development of the Standard Model (SM), the widely accepted theory of elementary particles.\n\nGell-Mann, along with Maurice Lévy, developed the sigma model of pions, which describes low-energy pion interactions. Modifying the integer-charged quark model of Moo-Young Han and Yoichiro Nambu, Harald Fritzsch and Gell-Mann were the first to write down the modern accepted theory of quantum chromodynamics, although they did not anticipate asymptotic freedom. In 1969 he received the Nobel Prize in physics for his contributions and discoveries concerning the classification of elementary particles and their interactions.\n\nGell-Mann is responsible, together with Pierre Ramond and Richard Slansky, and independently of Peter Minkowski, Rabindra Mohapatra, Goran Senjanovic, Sheldon Lee Glashow, and Tsutomu Yanagida, for the seesaw theory of neutrino masses, that produces masses at the large scale in any theory with a right-handed neutrino. He is also known to have played a large role in keeping string theory alive through the 1970s and early 1980s, supporting that line of research at a time when it was unpopular.\n\nGell-Mann is a proponent of the consistent histories approach to understanding quantum mechanics.\nGell-Mann married J. Margaret Dow (d. 1981) in 1955: their children are Elizabeth Sarah Gell-Mann (b. 1956) and Nicholas Webster Gell-Mann (b. 1963). Margaret died in 1981, and in 1992 he married Marcia Southwick, with whom he has a stepson, Nicholas Southwick Levis (b. 1978).\n\nGell-Mann has interests in birdwatching, collecting antiques, ranching, historical linguistics, archaeology, natural history, the psychology of creative thinking, other subjects connected with biological, and cultural evolution and with learning. Along with S. A. Starostin, he established the \"Evolution of Human Languages project\" at the Santa Fe Institute.\n\nAs a humanist and an agnostic, Gell-Mann is a Humanist Laureate in the International Academy of Humanism.\n\nGell-Mann endorsed Barack Obama for the United States presidency in October 2008.\n\nTogether with author Michael Crichton, Gell-Mann is responsible for defining the theoretical psychological phenomenon called the Gell-Mann amnesia effect.\n\nGell-Mann has won numerous awards and honours including\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21742798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21742798", "title": "Neither one nor many", "text": "Neither one nor many\n\nThe 'neither one nor many' argument (Wylie: gcig du 'bral ba'i gtan tshigs) is an argument employed by different philosophers and spiritual traditions for various reasons. The argument and its permutations and antecedents, particularly the \"problem of the One and the Many\" as charted by McEvilley (2002: pp. 23–66) in his \"magnum opus\", has an ancient pedigree in the lineages of both Indian philosophy and Greek philosophy. McEvilley (2002) also provides strongly persuasive arguments inferring the mutual influence and mutual iteration of the ancient Indian and Greek philosophical traditions but proffers patently inconclusive and undemonstrable evidence, the perennial bugbear of historical inquiry. The argument is a factor in the algorithmic function of the \"Catuskoti\". In its Buddhist employ, the argument is one of a suite of arguments within the purview of Pramana and Indian logic to demonstrate and test various doctrines. Different authorities and sources provide different enumerations of these said arguments; Khenpo Yonten Gyamtso lists them thus:\n\nThe Padmakara Translation Group (2005: p. 39) convey the uniqueness of the \"Madhyamākalaṃkāra\" of Śāntarakṣita in Buddhist literature in its focused, dedicated and protracted employ of the \"neither one nor many\" argument:\n\nThe \"Madhyamakalankara\" invokes the argument of \"neither one nor many\" more intensively (throughout sixty-two of its ninety-seven stanzas) than any other text in Buddhist literature. This argument is one of a series of proofs used to demonstrate that phenomena are without real existence.\n"}
{"id": "47329931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47329931", "title": "Nicolae Bagdasar", "text": "Nicolae Bagdasar\n\nNicolae Bagdasar (February 5, 1896–April 21, 1971) was a Romanian philosopher. Born to a peasant family north of Bârlad, he fought in World War I before attending the University of Bucharest and going on to earn a doctorate in Germany. He entered university teaching at Bucharest in 1928, but did not become a full professor until 1942, when he began teaching the history of philosophy and epistemology at Iași. Rising to Romanian Academy member the following year, he lost this distinction in 1948, under the nascent communist regime, and was removed from teaching in 1949. He spent the remainder of his career in a lower profile, undertaking research in various fields. A well-read scholar, Bagdasar authored the first history of Romanian philosophy, among several noted texts. Both in the interwar period and during World War II, he was involved in running publishing houses, with the latter stint incurring disfavor from the communist authorities.\n\nBorn in Roșiești, Vaslui County, his parents were Iancu Bagdasar and his wife Smaranda (\"née\" Aftenie). Another six siblings were born after him, and his mother died giving birth to her twelfth child, in 1911. His parents were affluent peasants at the top of village society; his father served five consecutive terms as mayor, amounting to twenty years. His mother was illiterate, but valued education and urged all her children to study. As he thought the teacher in Roșiești to be incompetent, his father sent Nicolae to attend primary school in nearby Idrici village, together with his older brother Dumitru, to whom he was very attached. He then entered the prestigious Gheorghe Roșca Codreanu High School in Bârlad, graduating in 1916. He began publishing in \"Neamul Românesc\" magazine in 1915, while still a student, signing as Bărdescu. While in Bârlad, he supported himself through tutoring.\n\nIn October 1916, shortly after Romania entered World War I, he began studying at the reserve officers' school in Botoșani. From spring 1917 to March 1918, he fought on the front as a student master sergeant. He later recalled his wartime experiences in \"Amintiri. Notații autobiografice\", pointing out the absurdity and uselessness of many of the army's actions. He found that officers, rather than judging based on circumstances, hid behind regulations, and that the troops' activities were subject to little real oversight. In October 1918, near the war's end, he enrolled in the literature and philosophy faculty of Bucharest University, graduating in 1922. Initially intending to study sociology, he changed his mind when he found that his professor Ion A. Rădulescu-Pogoneanu did not know the material. Bagdasar then opted for the history of philosophy, taught by a youthful Mircea Florian, whom he found erudite. While a student, he was an editor for \"Gazeta Transilvaniei\", a newspaper based in Brașov, in the newly acquired Transylvania region. Following graduation and with the help of Mihai Popovici, he earned a scholarship at the University of Berlin, where he studied from 1922 to 1926. At Berlin, he took courses with Carl Stumpf, Heinrich Maier and Max Dessoir, and was active in the Kant-Gesellschaft society. He also acquired a solid grounding in Kantianism. He took his doctorate in 1926; it was titled \"Der Begriff des theoretischen Wertes bei Rickert\" (\"The Notion of Theoretical Value in Rickert\").\n\nUpon his return from Germany in September 1926, he was unable to find a university post, but was asked by the Public Instruction Ministry to teach German at the Romanian commercial school in Thessaloniki. He immediately accepted a job as substitute professor, teaching in the Greek city from that November until the following April. After his return home and until 1930, Bagdasar taught at the Nicolae Krețulescu Commercial School in Bucharest; he also worked for ten years at the private Prince Carol high school. From autumn 1928 to spring 1930, he was a librarian at Dimitrie Gusti's Romanian Social Institute.\n\nBagdasar was able to enter university teaching in 1928: thanks to the insistence of department chairman Constantin Rădulescu-Motru, he was named assistant psychotechnician in the experimental psychology laboratory of Bucharest University. A year later, he agreed to teach a course on logic at a reduced salary. His acceptance was reluctant, as he did not wish to upset course professor Nae Ionescu, who could attack him in \"Cuvântul\" newspaper. In 1929, he thus became assistant lecturer of logic and epistemology, and remained in the post until 1941. He taught logic to preparatory-year students and epistemology to students in the other years. In 1938, when the department was restructured, he stopped teaching for two years and entered a competition for a history of philosophy post at Cernăuți University, but was not hired. In early 1940, he was drawn into a plagiarism scandal involving Alexandru Posescu, who a year earlier had published an introduction to philosophy at Bagdasar's printing press. In late 1939, Nicolae Tatu accused Posescu of plagiarizing P. P. Negulescu; Posescu sued Tatu in January 1940, and also named Bagdasar as the moral author of the allegations against him. Bagdasar was ultimately cleared in 1945.\n\nAfter Rădulescu-Motru was forced to retire in October 1940, during the National Legionary State, Bagdasar became assistant to Ion Petrovici, who had recently transferred to Bucharest from Iași University. In December 1941, he was named administrator of \"Casa Școalelor\", the Culture Ministry's publishing house. In the summer of 1942, he became a professor at Iași, in the history of modern and contemporary philosophy, epistemology and metaphysics department, within the literature and philosophy faculty. The move was facilitated by Petrovici, by then Education Minister. He retained this post until March 1949, when, following the education reform enacted by the early communist regime the previous year, he was assigned to be a scientific adviser at the Bucharest-based Institute of History and Philosophy. Politically uninvolved and left-leaning, his relations with Rădulescu-Motru and Petrovici, as well as his work at \"Casa Școalelor\", probably contributed to his removal. Meanwhile, in May 1943, upon the motion of Rădulescu-Motru, he was elected a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy. When the communist authorities revamped the Academy in 1948, he was stripped of membership. In 1970, he was elected to the Academy of Social and Political Sciences.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1950, Bagdasar's work focused on the history of Romanian philosophy; he was then transferred to the history section of the Academy's Iași chapter, where he researched the history of Romanian literature. While there, he co-directed \"Ethos\" magazine with Ștefan Bârsănescu. Moving back to Bucharest in 1956, he delivered a eulogy the following March at Bellu cemetery for Rădulescu-Motru. He was somewhat marginalized during the 1950s and experienced a certain degree of poverty. He received a salary raise when he came to the national capital to work on \"Dicționarul explicativ al limbii române\", but continued riding the tramway second class for a year, and bought black bread rather than baguettes. Bagdasar died in 1971.\n\nBagdasar's most important works are: \"Filosofia contemporană a istoriei\" (vol. I, 1930), \"Din problemele culturii europene\" (1931), \"Istoria filosofiei românești\" (published as a standalone volume in 1940 and as part of \"Filosofia românească de la origini până astăzi\", itself volume V of \"Istoria filosofiei moderne\", 1941), \"Teoria cunoștinței\" (vol. I, 1941; vol. II, 1942) and \"Teoreticieni ai civilizației\" (1969). He was one of three co-authors of the 1943 \"Antologie filosofică. Filosofi străini\". Together with Petrovici, he wrote \"Manualul de psihologie\", a high school textbook that appeared annually between 1934 and 1945. He wrote nine studies in \"Societatea de mâine\" review, and others in \"Revista de filosofie\", \"Minerva\", \"Convorbiri Literare\", \"Arhiva pentru reforma și știința socială\" and \"Ethos\". Between 1930 and 1940, he edited special editions of \"Revista de filosofie\" dedicated to Baruch Spinoza, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Rădulescu-Motru, Negulescu, Ștefan Zeletin, René Descartes, Petrovici and Titu Maiorescu.In 1969, he published a translation of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\"; \"Critique of Practical Reason\" and \"The Metaphysics of Morals\" appeared posthumously in 1973. His first work in Romania was a study of Edmund Husserl that appeared in \"Revista de filosofie\" in 1928; there followed articles on Paul Natorp, Wilhelm Windelband and Rickert, all previously unknown in Romania.\n\nIn terms of philosophical outlook, Bagdasar combined Kantianism, Neo-Kantianism and Husserl's phenomenology. Well-informed, constantly studying developments in the field, he sought to shed light on rationalist tendencies in philosophy, while taking account of his era's rapid scientific progress to question the limits of Auguste Comte's positivism. In \"Teoria cunoștinței\", he critically analyzed epistemological theories such as relativism, agnosticism and positivism, while systematically presenting philosophical doctrines of knowing. \"Filosofia contemporană a istoriei\", of which one out of a planned three volumes were completed, deals with foreign philosophers' approach to history, but also discusses the thinking of Alexandru Dimitrie Xenopol and Nicolae Iorga about this topic. His \"Istoria filosofiei românești\" was the first work to analyze the evolution of philosophical concepts in Romania.\n\nRădulescu-Motru selected Bagdasar as editing secretary of \"Revista de filosofie\", which he proceeded to turn into the country's most important philosophy periodical, beginning with its appearance in a new format in March 1928. After relaunching the magazine, he obtained Rădulescu-Motru's assent to invigorate the Romanian Philosophical Society, which at that point was holding small, sporadic meetings. Under his guidance as secretary, the society held public conferences in the amphitheater of the Carol I University Foundation. Open to those paying admission, these events took place every autumn between 1928 and 1938. The conferences were highly successful, with members of the public filling the auditorium; moreover, by early 1929, the society was on a firm financial footing thanks to ticket sales, memberships, subsidies and subscriptions and sales of \"Revista de filosofie\", which managed to cover its printing costs. He established the country's first publishing house dedicated to philosophy; its first book was Spinoza's \"Ethics\". This was followed by works on Rădulescu-Motru and Negulescu; George Berkeley's \"Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge\" and David Hume's \"Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\", both introduced by Bagdasar; Lucretius' \"De rerum natura\" and Marsilio Ficino's \"Commentary on Plato's Symposium on Love\". He founded Tiparul Universitar printing press in 1935; all the society's books were printed there during the next decade. The most important of these was \"Istoria filosofiei moderne\", which appeared in five volumes between 1937 and 1941 and brought together contributions from all the country's academic centers, under the leadership of Rădulescu-Motru and Bagdasar's coordination. In 1930, he edited a celebratory volume marking 35 years of university teaching by Rădulescu-Motru; the book brought together contributions from leading academics, including Gheorghe Vlădescu-Răcoasa, Eugeniu Speranția, Mihai Ralea, Tudor Vianu, Mircea Djuvara, Petrovici and Gusti, as well as Bagdasar.\n\nHis tenure at \"Casa Școalelor\" began in December 1941, when Petrovici, the new minister, urged him to accept a government post. His first action was to try and enlarge the budget, an idea Petrovici met with skepticism, given that the country had recently entered World War II. Mircea Vulcănescu of the Finance Ministry rejected the proposal, stating that all the ministry's objectives were geared toward the war effort. Bagdasar went directly to the minister, pleading that at the postwar peace conference, the Romanian government would be able to argue that cultural figures continued to work even during the war. Although minister Nicolae Stoenescu was a professional soldier, he agreed, setting a budget of 70 million lei. This allowed \"Casa Școalelor\" to become the country's largest publishing house, putting out more titles over the next three years than during its entire previous existence. Bagdasar resigned as director in October 1944, following the King Michael Coup. Under communism in the 1950s, he was taken to task for having accepted this position, but justified his decision on several grounds. He noted that he detested the Ion Antonescu regime, as well as Adolf Hitler, but wished to do a favor for Petrovici, who knew of his anti-fascist leanings but imposed no conditions. He said he wished to avoid frequent drills and letter-censorship duty. Probably under duress, he apologized for allowing Iron Guard figure Traian Brăileanu to publish classic philosophers in translation, while noting that several Jewish writers (Ion Aurel Candrea, Nina Façon and S. Katz) had been published with his support. Finally, he noted that he had never published an article in \"Revista de filosofie\" by Guardist ideologue Nae Ionescu or his followers, but this was untrue, as Vulcănescu and Constantin Noica, both disciples of Ionescu's, made their appearance.\n\n"}
{"id": "17142986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17142986", "title": "Nikolai Putyatin", "text": "Nikolai Putyatin\n\nPrince Nikolai Abramovich Putyatin (), also romanized Putiatin, Puttiatin or Poutiatine (16 May 1749 – 13 January 1830) was a philanthropist, philosopher and eccentric personality from the Rurikid dynasty.\n\nBorn in Kiev, Prince Putyatin joined the Russian army early in his life. After having to oversee a brutal punishment as an officer, he left the service. He learned about architecture and garden arts, and contributed to the Gardens of Tsarskoye Selo. His talent and technical skills earned him a supervising position for public buildings at the court in Saint Petersburg. He was later promoted to Kammerherr and Geheimrat at the imperial court.\n\nThere he met and fell in love with Elisabeth von Sievers, the daughter of the court's chamberlain Karl von Sievers. Her husband was the influential Russian governor Jacob Johann von Sievers, a relative and protégé of her father. The long-lasting love affair culminated in 1778 into a scandal at the court, followed by her divorce and marriage to Putyatin.\n\nElisabeth von Sievers had three daughters: Cathinca (born 1770), Benedicta (born 1773) and Elisabeth (born 1776). Her divorce allowed her only to keep Benedicta with her. It is likely that the new couple had to commit to keep the new marriage free of new children, as new legitimate heirs would have endangered the heritage of the two daughters, who remained with Jacob Johann von Sievers. The couple and Benedicta left the Russian court and traveled several years throughout Europe.\n\nIn 1797 the family settled in Kleinzschachwitz near Dresden. It was there, that the prince built, based on his own plans, his \"Chaumière\", an extravagant villa with 16 balconies, a minarett-like tower, many swings and a gondola in the gardens. The place with its highly decorated park, full of grottos and ruins, was open to the public and known beyond the region.\n\nPutyatin rests, along with his wife († 1818) and stepdaughter († 1799), in a self-designed mausoleum in Dessau. Considering the date of her birth and the loving poems dedicated to Benedicta, she could very well have been his (secret) daughter.\n\nPutyatin's only heir was Gottlob Wassily von Freymann (born October 18, 1780, in St. Petersburg). Freymann was raised an orphan, supported by the prince. Among other things, Putyatin bought him the Rittergut Großzschachwitz, a noble seat close to the Chaumière. - The heritage was greatly reduced due to the earlier transfer of the mother's possessions to the daughters and gifts to the servants. The paperwork that Putyatin left behind, convinced Freymann that he was in fact the couple's son. Putyatin was unable to share this with him during his lifetime. The prince suffered greatly unter this, but felt bound by his word of honor.\n\nPrince Putyatin is still remembered in Dresden as a generous, free thinking, lovable eccentric personality. In 1997 a monument was dedicated to him in Kleinzschachwitz.\n\nPutyatin was full of inventions and ideas. He equipped his coach with bellows to get some cool air in the summer. His sled had a built-in oven for the winter. He invented a sugar saw, used wooden masks for wind protection and extended his umbrella with sidewalls. He was also an early protagonist of nudism, and opposed to wearing pants. Putyatin was active in music and poetry, and known as an outspoken philosopher.\n\n\n\nPutjatin was strongly opposed to modern French philosophers of his time such as Voltaire, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Marquis de Condorcet, Denis Diderot, Jean le Rond d'Alembert and other French encyclopaedists. - He was in close contact with Karl Christian Friedrich Krause, and became a friend of Johann Gottfried Herder in his last year.\n\n\nMentioned in \n\n\n"}
{"id": "50010948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50010948", "title": "Nissim Amon", "text": "Nissim Amon\n\nNissim Amon (Hebrew: ניסים אמון; born 1963) is an Israeli Zen master and meditation teacher. He is the developer of the \"Trilotherapy\" therapeutic system. He is also the author and translator of several books and publications.\n\nNissim Amon was born in Jerusalem in 1963 to a secular family. He served in the Israeli Defense Forces under the Nahal Brigade and fought in the Lebanon War. After his military service, he went on a trip to the Far East and became acquainted with Buddhism.\n\nAmon later returned to Israel, flew back to the Far East and joined a Zen Buddhist monastery in Korea where he underwent a curriculum in English for western monks. At that time, westerners were not required to undergo the long mentorship period as that of their Korean counterparts. At the \"Hwa Gye Sa\" monastery he became the first Israeli monk in Korea. Under the guidance of Zen Master Seung Sahn, he received his accreditation as a meditation teacher. Afterwards, he continued on to Japan there he joined the dojo of Zen Master G. W. Nishijima of the \"Soto Zen\" order. There, Amon was trained and certified as a Zen Master. From there he continued to Pune and taught Zen at Osho's \"Multiversity\". There he was exposed to various therapeutic methods which combined Zen Buddhism and western psychological approaches, first amongst which was the Gestalt approach.\n\nUpon his return to Israel, he established a class for higher consciousness at Madison college and managed it. He published several books on the topic of meditation and hosted groups and retreats. His claim to fame was when he hosted a television program entitled \"Sod Ha Osher Ha Pnimi\" (The Secret of Internal Happiness) on Israeli Channel 8.\n\nAmon married Merav and in 2001 and moved to the Greek island, Paros where he established, along with his partners, a meditation and retreat center called \"Tao's\". During the time in which he managed \"Tao's\" he completed the development of his \"Trilotherapy\" therapeutic system. In the Trilotherapy system, the therapist turns to two separate entities in the patient's personality, the intellect and the emotion – \"The Internal Children\" according to the theory, and communicates with them separately. This communication awakens a third entity – The Middle, \"The Parent\" which, according to the theory, embodies the \"True Self\" towards which the path of Zen is aimed.\n\nIn 2008, Amon returned to Israel and currently resides with his family in Amikam in northern Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2848919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2848919", "title": "Pavel Florensky", "text": "Pavel Florensky\n\nPavel Alexandrovich Florensky (also P. A. Florenskiĭ, Florenskii, Florenskij; ; – December 1937) was a Russian Orthodox theologian, priest, philosopher, mathematician, physicist, electrical engineer, inventor, polymath and neomartyr.\n\nPavel Aleksandrovich Florensky was born on January 21, 1882 (January 9 according to the Julian calendar) in Yevlakh, Elisabethpol Governorate, into the family of a railroad engineer, Aleksandr Florensky, in the town of Yevlakh in Elisabethpol Governorate (in present-day western Azerbaijan). His father came from a family of Russian Orthodox priests while his mother Olga (Salomia) Saparova (Saparyan, Sapharashvili) was of the Tbilisi Armenian nobility. His maternal grandmother Sofia Paatova (Paatashvili) was from Sighnaghi, Georgia. Florensky \"always searched for the roots of his Armenian family\" and noted that they came from Karabakh.\n\nFlorensky completed his high school studies (1893-1899) at the Tbilisi classical lyceum, where several companions were later to distinguish themselves, among them the founder of Russian Cubo-Futurism, David Burliuk. In 1899, Florensky underwent a religious crisis, connected to a visit to Leo Tolstoy caused by an awareness of the limits and relativity of the scientific positivism and rationality which had been an integral part of his initial formation within his family and high school. He decided to construct his own solution by developing theories that would reconcile the spiritual and the scientific visions on the basis of mathematics. He entered the department of mathematics of Moscow State University and studied under Nikolai Bugaev, and became friends with his son, the future poet and theorist of Russian symbolism, Andrei Bely. He was particularly drawn to Georg Cantor's set theory.\n\nHe also took courses on ancient philosophy. During this period the young Florensky, who had no religious upbringing, began taking an interest in studies beyond \"the limitations of physical knowledge\" In 1904 he graduated from the Moscow State University and declined a teaching position at the university: instead, he proceeded to study theology at the Ecclesiastical Academy in Sergiyev Posad. During his theological studies there, he came into contact with Elder Isidore on a visit to Gethsemane Hermitage, and Isidore was to become his spiritual guide and father. Together with fellow students Ern, Svenitsky and Brikhnichev he founded a society, the Christian Struggle Union (Союз Христиaнской Борьбы), with the revolutionary aim of rebuilding Russian society according to the principles of Vladimir Solovyov. Subsequently he was arrested for membership in this society in 1906: however, he later lost his interest in the Radical Christianity movement.\n\nDuring his studies at the Ecclesiastical Academy, Florensky's interests included philosophy, religion, art and folklore. He became a prominent member of the Russian Symbolism movement, together with his friend Andrei Bely and published works in the magazines \"New Way\" (Новый Путь) and \"Libra\" (Весы). He also started his main philosophical work, \"The Pillar and Ground of the Truth: an Essay in Orthodox Theodicy in Twelve Letters\". The complete book was published only in 1914 but most of it was finished at the time of his graduation from the academy in 1908.\n\nAccording to Princeton University Press: \"The book is a series of twelve letters to a \"brother\" or \"friend,\" who may be understood symbolically as Christ. Central to Florensky's work is an exploration of the various meanings of Christian love, which is viewed as a combination of philia (friendship) and agape (universal love). He describes the ancient Christian rites of the \"adelphopoiesis\" (brother-making), which joins male friends in chaste bonds of love. In addition, Florensky was one of the first thinkers in the twentieth century to develop the idea of the Divine Sophia, who has become one of the central concerns of feminist theologians.\"\n\nRecent research by Michael Hagemeister has authenticated that antisemitic material, written under a pseudonym, is in Florensky's hand. Florensky's biographer Avril Pyman evaluates Florensky's position regarding Jews as, contextually for the period, a middle way between liberal critics who excoriated at the time of the incident Russia's backwardness and the behaviour of instigators of pogroms like the Black Hundreds.\n\nAfter graduating from the academy, he married Anna Giatsintova, the sister of a friend, in August 1910, a move which shocked his friends who were familiar with his aversion to marriage. He continued to teach philosophy and lived at Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra until 1919. In 1911 he was ordained into the priesthood. In 1914 he wrote his dissertation, \"About Spiritual Truth\". He published works on philosophy, theology, art theory, mathematics and electrodynamics. Between 1911 and 1917 he was the chief editor of the most authoritative Orthodox theological publication of that time, \"Bogoslovskiy Vestnik\". He was also a spiritual teacher of the controversial Russian writer Vasily Rozanov, urging him to reconcile with the Orthodox Church.\n\nAfter the October Revolution he formulated his position as: \"I have developed my own philosophical and scientific worldview, which, though it contradicts the vulgar interpretation of communism... does not prevent me from honestly working in the service of the state.\" After the Bolsheviks closed the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra (1918) and the Sergievo-Posad Church (1921), where he was the priest, he moved to Moscow to work on the State Plan for Electrification of Russia (ГОЭЛРО) under the recommendation of Leon Trotsky who strongly believed in Florensky's ability to help the government in the electrification of rural Russia. According to contemporaries, Florensky in his priest's cassock, working alongside other leaders of a Government department, was a remarkable sight.\n\nIn 1924, he published a large monograph on dielectrics. He worked simultaneously as the Scientific Secretary of the \"Historical Commission on Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra\" and published his works on ancient Russian art. He was rumoured to be the main organizer of a secret endeavour to save the relics of St. Sergii Radonezhsky whose destruction had been ordered by the government.\n\nIn the second half of the 1920s, he mostly worked on physics and electrodynamics, eventually publishing his paper \"Imaginary numbers in Geometry\" () devoted to the geometrical interpretation of Albert Einstein's theory of relativity. Among other things, he proclaimed that the geometry of imaginary numbers predicted by the theory of relativity for a body moving faster than light is the geometry of the Kingdom of God. For mentioning the Kingdom of God in that work, he was accused of agitation by Soviet authorities.\n\nIn 1928, Florensky was exiled to Nizhny Novgorod. After the intercession of Ekaterina Peshkova (wife of Maxim Gorky), Florensky was allowed to return to Moscow. On 26 February 1933 he was arrested again, on suspicion of engaging in a conspiracy with Pavel Gidiulianov, a professor of canon law who was a complete stranger to Florensky, to overthrow the state and install, with Nazi assistance, a fascist monarchy. He defended himself vigorously against the imputations until he realized that by showing a willingness to admit them, though false, he would enable several acquaintances to resecure their liberty. He was sentenced to ten years in the labor camps by the infamous Article 58 of Joseph Stalin's criminal code (clauses ten and eleven: \"agitation against the Soviet system\" and \"publishing agitation materials against the Soviet system\"). The published agitation materials were the monograph about the theory of relativity. His manner of continuing to wear priestly garb annoyed his employers. The state offered him numerous opportunities to go into exile in Paris, but he declined them.\n\nHe served at the Baikal Amur Mainline camp until 1934 when he was moved to Solovki, where he conducted research into producing iodine and agar out of the local seaweed. In 1937 he was transferred to Saint Petersburg (then known as Leningrad) where, on 25 November, he was sentenced by an extrajudicial NKVD troika to death. According to a legend he was sentenced for the refusal to disclose the location of the head of St. Sergii Radonezhsky that the communists wanted to destroy. The saint's head was indeed saved and in 1946 the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra was opened again. The relics of St. Sergii became fashionable once more. The saint's relics were returned to Lavra by Pavel Golubtsov, later known as Archbishop Sergiy.\n\nAfter sentencing, Florensky was transported in a special train together with another 500 prisoners to a location near St. Petersburg, where he was shot dead on the night of 8 December 1937 in a wood not far from the city. The site of his burial is unknown. Antonio Maccioni states that he was shot at the Rzhevsky Artillery Range, near Toksovo, which is located about twenty kilometers northeast of Saint Petersburg and was buried in a secret grave in Koirangakangas near Toksovo together with 30,000 others who were executed by the NKVD at the same time. In 1997, a mass burial ditch was excavated in the Sandarmokh forest, which may well contain his remains. His name was registered in 1982 among the list of New Martyrs and Confessors.\n\nFlorensky, often read for his contributions to the religious Renaissance of his time or scientific thinking, came to be studied in a broader perspective in the 1960s, a change associated with the revival of interest in neglected aspects of his oeuvre shown by the Tartu school of Semiotics, which evaluated his works in terms of their anticipation of themes that formed part of the theoretical avant-garde's interests in a general theory of cultural signs at that time. Read in this light, the evidence that Florensky's thinking actively responded to the art of the Russian modernists. Of particular importance in this regard was their publication of his 1919 essay, delivered as a lecture the following year, on spatial organization in the Russian icon tradition, entitled Reverse perspective, a concept which Florensky, like Erwin Panofsky later, picked up Oskar Wulff's 1907 essay, 'Die umgekehrte Perspective und die Niedersicht. Here Florensky contrasted the dominant concept of spatiality in Renaissance art analysing the visual conventions employed in the iconological tradition. This work has remained since its publication a seminal text in this area down to the present day. In that essay, his interpretation has recently been developed and reformulated critically by Clemena Antonova, who argues rather that what Florensky analysed is better described in terms of \"simultaneous planes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47548255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47548255", "title": "Peer Jamaat Ali Shah", "text": "Peer Jamaat Ali Shah\n\nAmeer e Millat Al Haj Hafiz Pir Syed Jamaat Ali Shah Sahib Muhaddith Alipuri ( 1834–1951) born in Alipur Sharif Dist, Sialkot, Pakistan was a Naqshbandi Sufi Saint and mass leader of traditional Barelvi Muslims of south Asia. He was President of Sunni Barelvi organisation All India Sunni Conference and was main leader in Shaheed Ganj Mosque. Through his standing among the Sunni Sufi followers he gave his open support to Pakistan Movement and therefore one of the prime religious leader of Pakistan Movement\n\nA book \"Seerat e Ameer e Millat\" is written to enlighten Biography.\n\n"}
{"id": "7057678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7057678", "title": "Peter Thielst", "text": "Peter Thielst\n\nPeter Thielst (born 1951) is a Danish philosopher, author and publisher of philosophical books from the Danish bureau \"Det lille forlag\" (\"The little publisher\"). He has written biographical works on Kierkegaard and Nietzsche.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38307465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38307465", "title": "Purang-Guge Kingdom", "text": "Purang-Guge Kingdom\n\nPurang-Guge kingdom () was a small Western Himalayan kingdom which was founded and flourished in the 10th century. It covered parts of remote western Tibet and northern Ladakh.\n\nThe original capital was at Burang () but was moved to Tholing in the Sutlej canyon southwest of Mount Kailash. It was divided into smaller kingdoms around the year 1100 CE. Tholing, at , the last town before Tsaparang in the kingdom of Guge was then its capital, (163 miles from Darchen). It was founded by the great-grandson of Langdarma, who was assassinated, leading to the collapse of the Tibetan Empire.\n\nBuddhist monuments at both Tsaparang and Tholing are now mostly in ruins except for a few statues and scores of murals in good condition, painted in the western Tibetan style.\n\nWhile Langdarma persecuted Buddhism in Tibet, his grandson, King Yeshe-Ö, who ruled the Guge Kingdom in the 10th century with Tholing as its capital, was responsible for the second revival or \"second diffusion\" of Buddhism in Tibet; the reign of the Guge Kingdom was known more for the revival of Buddhism than for its conquests. He built Tholing Monastery in his capital city in the 997 AD along with two other temples built around the same time, Tabo Monastery in the Spiti Valley of Northeast India and Khochar Monastery (south of Purang); both these monasteries are functional.\n\nThe kingdom covered parts of western Tibet and northern Ladakh. Its first capital was Burang and the second one was Tsaparang, west of Tholing along the Sutlej. The old city of Tsaparang, now in ruins, is a \"fairy tale of caves, passageways, honeycombed in a tall ridge of ancient ocean deposits\". The king’s palace is located on the upper part of the hills. It has a maze of chambers, and a balcony and windows looking into the valley.\n\nFollowing the capture of the kingdom by Ladakh in 1630 CE, most buildings fell into decay except for a few temples which have survived in the lower flanks of the ridge. Like Tholing, their walls are studded with mural art and is now a museum. The main images are surrounded by mythical animals and floral designs.\n\nThe emergence of the Purang-Guge Kingdom raised the position of western Tibet in Central Asia. It was founded in the region of Purang south of the Kailash mountains () by descendants of the Central Tibetan monarchy, \"Kyide Nyimagon\", and scions of other noble families such as the 'Bro clan. Preceding Purang-Guge was Zhangzhung. It is inferred from some inscriptions still visible in Tabo Monastery that non-Tibetan names noted initially in the pre-10th century period seem to have been replaced with Tibetan names once the region came under Tibetan religious influence. Some of the wooden temples in the region and the Durga temple (extensively damaged) attest to the cultist tantric practices prevailing in the area in the earlier periods but not witnessed in the monuments during the Purang-Guge reign.\n\nAfter the rule of Kyide Nyimagon, Yeshe-Ö, king and monk, ruled the entire Western Himalayan region including the upper regions of Ladakh along with his brother. It was stable until it was divided up around 1100. Yeshe-Ö not only founded the temples but also encouraged the nobility of Tibet to do build temples across it. He also marginalized the esoteric forms of tantric practices (mostly by non-organised groups), which were prevalent then in Tibet and helped to consolidate the Tibetan Buddhist faith. The large number of artistic works made of bronzes are credited to Nagaraja (one of the two sons of Yeshe-Ö) collections. However, the contributions by Rinchen Zangpo (958-1055 AD) in translation of Sanskrit works and towards temple building during this period, which became part of the Tibetan Buddhist canon, are monumental.\n\nIn another version of the history, it is said that Langdarma was plagued by external troubles. The Uyghur Khaganate to the north collapsed under pressure from the Kyrgyz people in 840, and many displaced people fled to Tibet.\n\nThere were serious disturbances in Ü-Tsang as well. Due to the rivalries and disturbances following upon the death of Langdarma, there were serious conflicts among the rival groups claiming power, resulting in the collapse of the Tibetan Empire. This period was known traditionally as the Era of Fragmentation, dominated by rebellions against the remnants of imperial Tibet and the rise of regional warlords ensued.\n\nAs the royal claimants were minors, the issues did not escalate and a status quo was maintained until civil war broke out in 866. In some accounts it is said that Tsaparang was made the capital of Guge by Namde Ösung (), one of the sons of Langdarma. Some other accounts mention that two of Langdarma's grandsons fled to Western Tibet around 919. The eldest one, Kyidé Nyima Gön (), established himself at Purang and conquered a large area including Ladakh and parts of the Spiti Valley. After his death, his kingdom was split up between his three sons into the kingdoms of Guge, Purang, and Maryul (Ladakh).\n\nHowever, in Central Tibet, the scions of the royal family became local chiefs, each with smaller areas under their control.\n\nLangdarma's assassination event is still celebrated by Buddhists in Tibet by performing the Black Hat cham dance during monastic festivals.\n\nThe Guge Kingdom was established by Chogyal Yeshe-Ö in AD 967, with Tholing as the capital. Under his reign, Tholing became an important centre for Indian scholars to visit and spread Buddhist religion and culture. Before that, at the initiative of the King, specially chosen batch of 21 young and bright students from the monastery were sent to India and Kashmir to be trained in Buddhism and to translate Sanskrit texts on religion and the Tibetan language and to study at Vikramashila, a specialist institution in tantra. Unfortunately 19 of them could not survive the climate, snake bites and diseases and only two monks, Rinchen Zangpo and Lekpai Sherap, survived.\n\nDuring the reigns of the second and third kings, Indian Buddhist religious, artistic, architectural, scriptural and philosophical traditions permeated Tibet through Guge; this is known as the \"Second Advancement\".\n\nThe emphasis during the Yeshe-Ö rule was religious education, religious architecture and religious reform. He raised a young band of monks. He dressed himself like a monk and resided in the Tholing Monastery. In 1042, the third king invited the Indian master Atiśa to Guge. Later in the 11th century a Buddhist conference was arranged at Gyatsa Jhakhang (also known as Yeshe-Ö Temple), an original 10th-century temple now in ruins. The Indian monk Atisha, stayed for three years at Tholing and became a famous master in Tibet. During his stay in Tholing, the famous Buddhist work he wrote was \"Lamp of The Path to Enlightenment.\" He along with the first Abbot, Bin-chen Bzang-po, of Tholing were responsible for introducing the South Asian art to Tibet, particularly the murals depicting a fusion of Indian, Nepalese and Kashmir styles. The famous murals are the \"16 Vajara Dancers\" and \"The Birth of Sakyamuni,\" the founder of Buddhism. The monasteries were built in Tsaparang and Tholing with mud bricks, along with other temples and monasteries. The influence of the Guge Kingdom, particularly the monastic center of Tholing, was felt from Kashmir to Assam in India also.\n\nGuge’s capital was shifted to Tsaparang by 15th century. History also records that from 1624 to 1635 an effort was made by a mission headed by António de Andrade, a Portuguese Jesuit, to convert Guge to Roman Catholicism and some locals became Catholics and a church was also built. However, as result of local resentment at the Guge ruler's persecution of Buddhism monks, they approached the kingdom of Ladakh to intervene. The Ladakhis, who had sought for many years to incorporate Guge into their domain, invaded the kingdom, expelling most of the Christians and destroying the church.\n\nIn 1679-80, Tsaparang and the Guge kingdom were conquered by the Lhasa-based kingdom under the leadership of the 5th Dalai Lama, causing considerable damage. During the Cultural Revolution, further destruction of the statues and murals in both chapels by the Red Guards followed. Despite this destruction, many magnificent frescoes have survived.\n"}
{"id": "2014775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014775", "title": "Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi", "text": "Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi\n\nQotb al-Din Mahmoud b. Zia al-Din Mas'ud b. Mosleh Shirazi (1236—1311) () was a 13th-century Iranian polymath and poet who made contributions to astronomy, mathematics, medicine, physics, music theory, philosophy and Sufism.\n\nHe was born in Kazerun in October 1236 to a family with a tradition of Sufism. His father, Zia' al-Din Mas'ud Kazeruni was a physician by profession and also a leading Sufi of the Kazeruni order. Zia' Al-Din received his Kherqa (Sufi robe) from Shahab al-Din Omar Suhrawardi. Qutb al-Din was garbed by the Kherqa (Sufi robe) as blessing by his father at age of ten. Later on, he also received his own robe from the hands of Najib al-Din Bozgush Shirazni, a famous Sufi of the time. Quṭb al-Din began studying medicine under his father. His father practiced and taught medicine at the Mozaffari hospital in Shiraz. After the passing away of his father (when Qutb al-Din was 14), his uncle and other masters of the period trained him in medicine. He also studied the Qanun (the Canon) of the famous Persian scholar Avicenna and its commentaries. In particular he read the commentary of Fakhr al-Din Razi on the Canon of Medicine and Qutb al-Din raised many issues of his own. This led to his own decision to write his own commentary, where he resolved many of the issues in the company of Nasir al-Din al-Tusi.\n\nQutb al-Din lost his father at the age of fourteen and replaced him as the ophthalmologist at the Mozaffari hospital in Shiraz. At the same time, he pursued his education under his uncle Kamal al-Din Abu'l Khayr and then Sharaf al-Din Zaki Bushkani, and Shams al-Din Mohammad Kishi. All three were expert teachers of the Canon of Avicenna. He quit his medical profession ten years later and began to devote his time to further education under the guidance of Nasir al-Din al-Tusi. When Nasir al-Din al-Tusi, the renowned scholar-vizier of the Mongol Holagu Khan established the observatory of Maragha, Qutb al-Din Shirazi became attracted to the city. He left Shiraz sometime after 1260 and was in Maragha about 1262. In Maragha, Qutb al-din resumed his education under Nasir al-Din al-Tusi, with whom he studied the al-Esharat wa'l-Tanbihat of Avicenna. He discussed the difficulties he had with Nasir al-Din al-Tusi on understanding the first book of the Canon of Avicenna. While working in the new observatory, studied astronomy under him. One of the important scientific projects was the completion of the new astronomical table (zij). In his testament (Wasiya), Nasir al-Din al-Tusi advises his son ṣil-a-Din to work with Qutb al-Din in the completion of the Zij.\n\nQutb-al-Din's stay in Maragha was short. Subsequently, he traveled to Khorasan in the company of Nasir al-Din al-Tusi where he stayed to study under Najm al-Din Katebi Qazvini in the town of Jovayn and become his assistant. Some time after 1268, he journeyed to Qazvin, Isfahan, Baghdad and later Konya in Anatolia. This was a time when the Persian poet Jalal al-Din Muhammad Balkhi (Rumi) was gaining fame there and it is reported that Qutb al-Din also met him. In Konya, he studied the Jam'e al-Osul of Ibn Al-Athir with Sadr al-Din Qunawi. The governor of Konya, Mo'in al-Din Parvana appointed him as the judge of Sivas and Malatya. It was during this time that he compiled the books the \"Meftāḥ al-meftāh\", \"Ekhtiārāt al-moẓaffariya\", and his commentary on Sakkāki. In the year 1282, he was envoy on behalf of the Ilkhanid Ahmad Takudar to Sayf al-Din Qalawun, the Mamluk ruler of Egypt. In his letter to Qalawun, the Ilkhanid ruler mentions Qutb al-Din as the chief judge. Qutb al-Din during this time collected various critiques and commentaries on Avicenna's Canon and used them on his commentary on the Kolliyāt. The last part of Qutb al-Din's active career was teaching the Canon of Avicenna and the Shefa of Avicenna in Syria. He soon left for Tabriz after that and died shortly after. He was buried in the Čarandāb cemetery of the city.\n\nShirazi identified observations by the scholar Avicenna in the 11th century and Ibn Bajjah in the 12th century as transits of Venus and Mercury. However, Ibn Bajjah cannot have observed a transit of Venus, as none occurred in his lifetime.\n\nQutb al-Din had an insatiable desire for learning, which is evidenced by the twenty-four years he spent studying with masters of the time in order to write his commentary on the Kolliyāt. He was also distinguished by his extensive breadth of knowledge, a clever sense of humor and indiscriminate generosity. He was also a master chess player and played the musical instrument known as the Rabab, a favorite instrument of the Persian poet Rumi.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nQutb al-Din was also a Sufi from a family of Sufis in Shiraz. He is famous for the commentary on Hikmat al-ishraq of Suhrawardi, the most influential work of Islamic Illuminist philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3448264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3448264", "title": "Richard Kearney", "text": "Richard Kearney\n\nRichard Kearney (; born 1954, Cork, Ireland) is an Irish philosopher and public intellectual specializing in contemporary continental philosophy. He is the Charles Seelig Professor in Philosophy at Boston College and has taught at University College Dublin, the Sorbonne, the University of Nice, and the Australian Catholic University. He is the author of 23 books on European philosophy and literature (including two novels and a volume of poetry) and has edited or co-edited over 20 more. He was formerly a member of the Arts Council of Ireland, the Higher Education Authority of Ireland and chairman of the Irish School of Film at University College Dublin. He is also a member of the Royal Irish Academy. As a public intellectual in Ireland, he was involved in drafting a number of proposals for a Northern Irish peace agreement (1983, 1993, 1995). He has presented five series on culture and philosophy for Irish and British television and broadcast extensively on the European media. He is currently international director of the Guestbook Project–Hosting the Stranger: Between Hostility and Hospitality. \n\nKearney studied at Glenstal Abbey under the Benedictines until 1972 and graduated with a B.A. in 1975 from the University of Dublin. With fellow students he launched the \"Crane Bag\" journal. He completed an M.A. at McGill University with Canadian philosopher Charles Taylor in 1976 and held a Masters Travelling Studentship, National University of Ireland, in 1977. He then completed his Ph.D. with Paul Ricœur at . He corresponded with Jean-Paul Sartre, Jacques Derrida and other French philosophers of the era. He was also active in the Irish, British, and French media as a host for various television and radio programs on literary and philosophical themes. His work focuses on the philosophy of the narrative imagination, hermeneutics and phenomenology. Notable academic posts include University College of Dublin (1988-2001), The Film School, UCD (1993-2005), the Sorbonne, University of Paris (1995), And Boston College (1999 – present).\n\nRichard Kearney currently lives in Boston, Massachusetts, where he is married to Anne Bernard and has two daughters, Simone and Sarah.\n\nAmong Kearney's best-known written works are \"The Wake of the Imagination\" (Routledge, 1998), \"Poetics of Imagining\" (Fordham, 1998), \"On Stories\" (Routledge, 2002; translated into Dutch and Chinese), \"Strangers, Gods and Monsters: Interpreting Otherness\" (Routledge, 2003; translated into Greek and Korean), \"Debates in Continental Philosophy\" (Fordham, 2004), and \"Anatheism: Returning to God after God\" (Columbia, 2011; revised editions published in French and Italian).\n\nKearney's work attempts to steer \"a middle path between Romantic hermeneutics (Schleiermacher) which retrieve and reappropriate God as presence and radical hermeneutics (Derrida, Caputo) which elevates alterity to the status of undecidable sublimity.\" He calls his approach \"diacritical hermeneutics.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "203901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203901", "title": "Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee", "text": "Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee\n\nThe Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC, often pronounced ) was one of the major Civil Rights Movement organizations of the 1960s. It emerged from the first wave of student sit-ins and formed at a May 1960 meeting organized by Ella Baker at Shaw University. After its involvement in the Voter Education Project, SNCC grew into a large organization with many supporters in the North who helped raise funds to support its work in the South, allowing full-time organizers to have a small salary. Many unpaid grassroots organizers and activists also worked with SNCC on projects in the Deep South, often becoming targets of racial violence and police brutality. SNCC played a seminal role in the freedom rides, the 1963 March on Washington, Mississippi Freedom Summer, the Selma campaigns, the March Against Fear and other historic events. SNCC may be best known for its community organizing, including voter registration, freedom schools, and localized direct action all over the country, but especially in Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi.\n\nIn the later 1960s, inspired by fiery leaders such as Stokely Carmichael, SNCC focused on black power, and draft resistance to the Vietnam War. As early as 1965, executive secretary James Forman said he \"did not know how much longer we can stay nonviolent\" and in 1969, SNCC officially changed its name to the Student National Coordinating Committee to reflect the broadening of its strategy. It passed out of existence in the 1970s following heavy infiltration and suppression by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), spearheaded as part of COINTELPRO operations during the 1960s and 70s led by J. Edgar Hoover.\n\nFounded in 1960 and inspired by the Greensboro sit-ins and Nashville sit-ins, independent student-led groups began direct-action protests against segregation in dozens of southern communities. SNCC focused on mobilizing local communities,\na policy in which African American communities would push for change,\nimpelling the federal government to act once the injustice had become\napparent. The most common action of these groups was organizing sit-ins at racially segregated lunch counters to protest the pervasiveness of Jim Crow and other forms of racism. While in the Civil Rights Cases (109 U.S. 3 [1883]), the Court ruled that the equal protection clause \"did not cover private individuals, organizations, or establishments,\" the trials of arrested sit-in protesters created an opening for the Court to reevaluate its earlier ruling and expand the clause to cover acts of private discrimination. The sit-in movement was a turning point in using the courts and jail to exert moral and economic pressure on southern communities. In addition to sitting in at lunch counters, the groups also organized and carried out protests at segregated White public libraries, public parks, public swimming pools, and movie theaters. At that time, all those facilities financed by taxes were closed to blacks. The white response was often to close the facility, rather than integrate it.\n\nThe Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), as an organization, began with an $800.00 grant from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) for a conference attended by 126 student delegates from 58 sit-in centers in 12 states, along with delegates from 19 northern colleges, the SCLC, Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), Fellowship of Reconciliation (FOR), National Student Association (NSA), and Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). Out of this conference the SNCC was formed.\n\nElla Baker, who organized the Shaw conference, was the SCLC director at the time she helped form SNCC. But SNCC was not a branch of SCLC. Instead of being closely tied to SCLC or the NAACP as a \"youth division\", SNCC sought to stand on its own. Ms. Baker later lost her job with SCLC, which she had helped found.\n\nAmong important SNCC leaders attending the conference were Stokely Carmichael from Howard University; Charles F. McDew, who led student protests at South Carolina State University; J. Charles Jones, who organized 200 students to participate in sit-ins at department stores throughout Charlotte, North Carolina; Julian Bond from Atlanta, Diane Nash from Fisk University; James Lawson; and John Lewis, Bernard Lafayette, James Bevel, and Marion Barry from the Nashville Student Movement.\n\nSNCC's first chairman was Marion Barry, who later became the mayor of Washington DC. Barry served as chairman for one year. The second chairman was Charles F. McDew, who served as the chairman from 1961 to 1963, when he was succeeded by John Lewis. Stokely Carmichael and H. \"Rap\" Brown were chairmen in the late 1960s. SNCC's executive secretary, James Forman, played a major role in running the organization.\n\nIn the years that followed, SNCC members were referred to as \"shock troops of the revolution.\" SNCC took on greater risks in 1961, after a mob of Ku Klux Klan members and other whites attacked integrated groups of bus passengers who defied local segregation laws as part of the Freedom Rides organized by the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE). Rather than allowing mob violence to stop them, New Orleans CORE and Nashville SNCC Freedom Riders, including Dave Dennis, Oretha Castle Haley, Jean C. Thompson, Rudy Lombard, Diane Nash, James Bevel, Marion Barry, Angeline Butler, and John Lewis, put themselves at great personal risk by traveling in racially integrated groups into Mississippi as they continued the Ride. Other bus riders followed, traveling through the deep South to test Southern compliance with Federal Law. At least 436 people took part in these Freedom Rides during the spring and summer of 1961.\n\nBob Moses played a central role in transforming SNCC from a coordinating committee of student protest groups to an organization of activists dedicated to building community-based political organizations of the rural poor. The voter registration project he initiated in McComb, Mississippi in 1961 became the seed for much of SNCC's activities from 1962 to 1966.\n\nAfter the Freedom Rides, SNCC worked primarily on voter registration, and with local protests over segregated public facilities. Registering Black voters was extremely difficult and dangerous. People of Color who attempted to register often lost their jobs and their homes, and sometimes their lives. SNCC workers lived with local families: often the homes providing such hospitality were firebombed.\n\nThe actions of SNCC, CORE, and SCLC forced the Kennedy Administration to briefly provide federal protection to temporarily abate mob violence. Local FBI offices were usually staffed by Southern whites (there were no Black FBI agents at that time) who refused to intervene to protect civil rights workers or local Blacks who were attempting to register to vote.\n\nSNCC was unusual among civil rights groups in the way in which decisions were made. Instead of \"top down\" control, as was the case with most organizations at that time, decisions in SNCC were made by consensus, called participatory democracy. Ms. Ella Baker was extremely influential in establishing that model, as was Rev. James Lawson. Group meetings would be convened in which every participant could speak for as long as they wanted and the meeting would continue until everyone who was left was in agreement with the decision. Because activities were often very dangerous and could lead to prison or death, SNCC wanted all participants to support each activity.\n\nSNCC played a significant role in the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. While many speakers applauded the Kennedy Administration for the efforts it had made toward obtaining new, more effective civil rights legislation protecting the right to vote and outlawing segregation, John Lewis took the administration to task for how little it had done to protect Southern blacks and civil rights workers under attack in the Deep South. Although he was forced to tone down his speech under pressure from the representatives of other civil rights organizations on the march organization committee, his words still stung. The version of the speech leaked to the press went as follows:\n\nWe march today for jobs and freedom, but we have nothing to be proud of, for hundreds and thousands of our brothers are not here—for they have no money for their transportation, for they are receiving starvation wages...or no wages at all. In good conscience, we cannot support the administration's civil rights bill.\n\nThis bill will not protect young children and old women from police dogs and fire hoses when engaging in peaceful demonstrations. This bill will not protect the citizens of Danville, Virginia who must live in constant fear in a police state. This bill will not protect the hundreds of people who have been arrested on trumped-up charges like those in Americus, Georgia, where four young men are in jail, facing a death penalty, for engaging in peaceful protest.\n\nI want to know, which side is the federal government on? The revolution is a serious one. Mr. Kennedy is trying to take the revolution out of the streets and put it in the courts. Listen Mr. Kennedy, the black masses are on the march for jobs and for freedom, and we must say to the politicians that there won't be a \"cooling-off period.\"\n\nHowever, under pressure from the representatives of other groups many changes were made to the speech as it was delivered that day. According to James Forman, the most important of these was the change of \"we cannot support\" the Kennedy Civil Rights Bill to \"we support with reservations\". Forman wrote of the following explanation of this:\n\nSomewhere along the line, the church and labor people had been told that this was a march to support the administration's Civil Rights Bill, which was passed in 1964, after Kennedy's death. Who did this and how it happened, I do not know. But people all over the country thought they were marching for jobs and freedom when in actuality the sellout leadership of the March on Washington was playing patsy with the Kennedy administration as part of the whole liberal-labor politics of Rustin, Wilkins, Randolph, Reuther, King, the Catholic and Protestant hierarchy. If people had known they had come to Washington to aid the Kennedy administration, they would not have come in the numbers they did.\n\nForman's and SNCC's anger came in part from the failure of the federal government, FBI, and Justice Department to protect SNCC civil rights workers in the South at this time. Indeed, the federal government at that time was instrumental in indicting SNCC workers and other civil rights activists.\n\nIn 1961 SNCC began expanding its activities from direct-action protests against segregation into other forms of organizing, most notably voter registration. Under the leadership of Bob Moses, SNCC's first voter-registration project was in McComb, Mississippi, an effort suppressed with arrests and savage white violence, resulting in the murder of local activist Herbert Lee.\n\nWith funding from the Voter Education Project, SNCC expanded its voter registration efforts into the Mississippi Delta around Greenwood, Southwest Georgia around Albany, and the Alabama Black Belt around Selma. All of these projects endured police harassment and arrests; KKK violence including shootings, bombings, and assassinations; and economic terrorism against those blacks who dared to try to register.\n\nIn 1962 Bob Moses worked to forge a coalition of national and regional organizations, including the NAACP and the National Council of Churches, that would fund and promote SNCC's voter registration work in Mississippi. This coalition was known as the Council of Federated Organizations. In the fall of 1963, SNCC conducted the Freedom Ballot, a parallel election in which black Mississippians came out to show their willingness to vote — a right they had been denied for decades, despite the provisions of the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, due to a combination of state laws and constitutional provisions, economic reprisals and violence by white authorities and private citizens.\n\nSNCC followed up on the Freedom Ballot with the Mississippi Summer Project, also known as Freedom Summer, which focused on voter registration and Freedom Schools. The Summer Project brought hundreds of white Northern students to the South, where they volunteered as teachers and organizers. Their presence brought national press attention to SNCC's work in the south. SNCC organized black Mississippians to register to vote, almost always without success. White authorities either rejected their applications on any pretexts available or, failing that, simply refused to accept their applications.Tensions grew gradually and SNCC refused to recruit white people because they thought that they brought attention of the media only on white people.\n\nMississippi Summer received national attention when three civil rights workers involved in the project - James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner - were murdered after having been released from police custody. Their bodies were eventually found after a reluctant J. Edgar Hoover directed the FBI to search for them. Johnson only sent the FBI after series of pressure and demonstrations. He favored at first to be the leader outside of his country with the Vietnam War whereas there were many conflicts inside of it. In the process, the FBI also found corpses of several other missing black Mississippians, whose disappearances had not attracted public attention outside the Delta.\n\nSNCC also established Freedom Schools to teach children to read and to educate them to stand up for their rights. As in the struggle to desegregate public accommodations led by Martin Luther King Jr. and James Bevel in Birmingham, Alabama the year before, the bolder attitudes of the children helped shake their parents out of the fear that had paralyzed many of them.\n\nThe goal of the Mississippi Summer Project was to organize the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party (MFDP), an integrated party, to win seats at the 1964 Democratic National Convention for a slate of delegates elected by disfranchised black Mississippians and white sympathizers. The MFDP was, however, tremendously inconvenient for the Johnson Administration. It had wanted to minimize the inroads that Barry Goldwater's campaign was making into what had previously been the Democratic stronghold of the \"Solid South\" and the support that George Wallace received during the Democratic primaries in the North.\n\nWhen the MFDP started to organize a fight over credentials, Johnson originally would not budge. When Fannie Lou Hamer, the leader of the MFDP, was in the midst of testifying about the police beatings of her and others for attempting to exercise their right to vote, Johnson preempted television coverage of the credentials fight. Even so, her testimony created enough uproar that Johnson offered the MFDP a \"compromise\": they would receive two non-voting seats, while the delegation sent by the official Democratic Party would take its seats.\n\nJohnson used all of his resources, mobilizing Walter Reuther, one of his key supporters within the liberal wing of the Democratic Party, and his Vice-Presidential nominee Hubert Humphrey, to pressure King and other mainstream civil rights leaders to bring the MFDP around, while directing Hoover to put the delegation under surveillance. The MFDP rejected both the compromise and the pressure to accept it, and walked out.\n\nThat experience destroyed what little faith SNCC activists had in the federal government, even though Johnson had obtained a broad Civil Rights Act barring discrimination in public accommodations, employment and private education in 1964 and would go on to obtain an equally broad Voting Rights Act in 1965. It also estranged SNCC leaders from many of the mainstream leaders of the civil rights movement.\n\nThose differences carried over into the voting rights struggle that centered on Selma, Alabama in 1965. SNCC had begun organizing black citizens to register to vote in Selma in 1963, but made little headway against the adamant resistance of Sheriff Jim Clark and the White Citizens' Council. In early 1965, local Selma activists asked the Southern Christian Leadership Conference for help, and the two organizations formed an uneasy alliance. They disagreed over tactical and strategic issues, including the SCLC's decision not to attempt to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge a second time after county sheriffs and state troopers attacked them on \"Bloody Sunday\" on March 7, 1965.\n\nThe civil rights activists crossed the bridge on the third attempt, with the aid of a federal court order barring authorities from interfering with the march. It was part of a five-day march to Montgomery, Alabama, that helped dramatize the need for a Voting Rights Act. During this period, SNCC activists became more and more disenchanted with nonviolence, integration as a strategic goal, and cooperation with white liberals or the Federal government.\n\nSNCC's experience with the COFO and Mississippi Freedom Summer solidified their estrangement from white liberals. During several points in the Mississippi project, a team of Democratic Party operatives led by Allard Lowenstein and Barney Frank tried to take over its management. They sought to move decision-making power away from grassroots activists in the South, and purge Communist-linked organizations (such as the National Lawyers Guild) from SNCC's network, in spite of those organizations having made crucial contributions to the movement. Dorothy Zellner (a white radical SNCC staffer) remarked that, \"What they [Lowenstein and Frank] want is to let the Negro into the existing society, not to change it.\"\n\nSNCC was also deeply affected by the killing of Sammy Younge Jr. the first black college student to be killed as a result of his involvement in the civil rights movement. Younge was a Navy veteran who later enrolled in the Tuskegee Institute and participated in the Selma-to-Montgomery campaign, as well as other SNCC projects. His murder by a white supremacist in January 1966, and subsequent acquittal of the killer, furthered the group's disillusionment that the federal government would protect them. SNCC took Younge's death as the occasion to denounce the war in Vietnam, the first statement of its kind by a major civil rights organization. SNCC highlighted Younge's death as an example of the hypocrisy of fighting for freedom abroad while rights were denied in the US and was used as a call for people to refuse the draft and work for freedom at home instead.\n\nMany within SNCC had grown skeptical about the tactics of nonviolence and integration. After the Democratic convention of 1964, the group began to split into two factions – one favoring a continuation of nonviolent, integration-oriented redress of grievances within the existing political system, and the other moving towards Black Power and Marxism.\n\nThe first SNCC project to promote the slogan \"black power\" was the Lowndes County Freedom Organization (LCFO) an African-American electoral organization which registered over 2,500 black voters between 1965 and 1969. This was a historic achievement given that Lowndes was the most Klan-dominated area in Alabama and that, as a result, Lowndes had zero registered black voters. Although the Voting Rights Act had been passed, federal monitoring was sporadic and federal protection of black voters inconsistent. White supremacists regularly killed blacks, and sometimes their allies like white SNCC volunteer Jonathan Daniels, with impunity. As such, most LCFO members did their organizing openly armed. They had no confidence in appealing to the support of middle-class liberals (even Martin Luther King and SCLC distanced themselves from the group) or the national Democratic Party. LCFO co-founder John Hulett (later elected Sheriff of Lowndes County) warned that this was the state of Alabama's last chance to peacefully grant African Americans their rights: \"We're out to take power legally, but if we're stopped by the government from doing it legally, we're going to take it the way everyone else took it, including the way the Americans took it in the American Revolution.\" Certain the federal government was not going to protect him and his fellow party members, Hulett told a federal registrar, \"if one of our candidates gets touched, we're going to take care of the murderer ourselves.\" Choosing a black panther as their mascot, LCFO was the first of numerous local organizations to be known as \"the black panther party\". (LCFO had no direct relationship with the later Black Panther Party for Self-Defense founded by Huey Newton, however.)\n\nWhile the LCFO candidates did not win their early campaigns, most historians and activists regard the group's mere survival under such hostile conditions to be a victory. In 1970 LCFO reconciled with the local Democratic Party, and various candidates, including John Hulett, went on to be Lowndes County officials.\n\nAfter the Watts riots in Los Angeles in 1965, more of SNCC's members sought to break their ties with the mainstream civil rights movement and the liberal organizations that supported it. They argued instead that blacks needed to build power of their own, rather than seeking accommodations from the power structure in place. SNCC migrated from a philosophy of nonviolence to one of greater militancy after the mid-1960s, as an advocate of the burgeoning black power movement, a facet of late 20th-century black nationalism. The shift was personified by Stokely Carmichael, who replaced John Lewis as SNCC chairman in 1966–67.\n\nCarmichael raised the banner of Black Power nationally in a speech in Greenwood, Mississippi in June 1966, as part of SNCC's response to the attempted assassination of James Meredith. After a contentious debate over the meaning of \"Black Power\", issues of black nationalism and black separatism, and the organization's strategic direction, white SNCC members were asked to leave the organization in December 1966. The vote, characterized by some as \"expelling\" whites and by others as \"asking whites to work against racism in white communities,\" was extremely close; 19 Aye, 18 Nay, and 24 abstentions.\n\nSNCC continued to maintain coalition with several white radical organizations, most notably Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), and inspired them to focus on militant anti-draft resistance. At an SDS-organized conference at UC Berkeley in October 1966, Carmichael challenged the white left to escalate their resistance to the military draft in a manner similar to the black movement. Some participants in ghetto rebellions of the era had already associated their actions with opposition to the Vietnam War, and SNCC had first disrupted an Atlanta draft board in August 1966. According to historians Joshua Bloom and Waldo Martin, SDS's first Stop the Draft Week of October 1967 was \"inspired by Black Power [and] emboldened by the ghetto rebellions.\" SNCC appear to have originated the popular anti-draft slogan: \"Hell no! We won't go!\" For a time in 1967, SNCC seriously considered an alliance with Saul Alinsky's Industrial Areas Foundation, and generally supported IAF's work in Rochester and Buffalo's black communities.\n\nExpressing SNCC's evolving policy on nonviolence/violence, Carmichael first argued that blacks should be free to use violence in self-defense; later he advocated revolutionary violence to overthrow oppression. Carmichael rejected the civil-rights legislation as mere palliatives. The Department of Defense stated in 1967: \"SNCC can no longer be considered a civil rights group. It has become a racist organization with black supremacy ideals and an expressed hatred for whites.\" (Martin Luther King's Southern Christian Leadership Conference was classified as a \"hate-type\" group by the federal government during the same period).\n\nSNCC became a target of the Counterintelligence Program (COINTELPRO) of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in a concerted effort at all levels of government to crush black radicalism – both violent and nonviolent – through both overt and covert means ranging from propaganda to assassination.\n\nCharles E. Cobb, formerly SNCC field secretary in Mississippi, has said that SNCC's grassroots and autonomous community work was undercut and co-opted by Lyndon Johnson's War on Poverty: \"After we got the Civil Rights Act in 1964 and the Voting Rights Act in 1965, a lot of groups that we had cultivated were absorbed into the Democratic Party...a lot more money came into the states we were working in. A lot of the people we were working with became a part of Head Start and various kinds of poverty programs. We were too young to really know how to respond effectively. How could we tell poor sharecroppers or maids making a few dollars a day to walk away from poverty program salaries or stipends?\"\n\nBy early 1967, SNCC was approaching bankruptcy as liberal funders refused to support its overt militancy. Carmichael voluntarily stepped down as chair in May 1967. H. Rap Brown, later known as Jamil Abdullah Al-Amin, replaced him as the head of SNCC. Brown renamed the group the Student National Coordinating Committee and supported violence, which he described as \"as American as cherry pie\". He resigned as chair of SNCC in 1968, after being indicted for inciting to riot in Cambridge, Maryland, in 1967. In 1968, Carmichael was expelled from the group completely by the new program secretary, Phil Hutchings, when Carmichael refused to resign from the Black Panther Party. Carmichael, along with Rap Brown and James Forman, had tried to foster an alliance between SNCC and the Panthers, but it proved to be a failure.\n\nBy then, SNCC was no longer an effective organization. Much analysis at the time blamed Carmichael's departure from the group for the decline, though others would dispute this. In 1968, SNCC lost numerous organizers, such as Kathleen Neal, Bob Brown, and Bobby Rush, to the Black Panther Party. Ella Baker said that \"SNCC came North at a time when the North was in a ferment that led to various interpretations on what was needed to be done. With its own frustrations, it could not take the pace-setter role it took in the South...\"\n\nThe organization largely disappeared in the early 1970s, although chapters in some communities, such as San Antonio, Texas, continued for several more years. Mario Marcel Salas, field secretary of the SNCC chapter in San Antonio, operated until 1976. The San Antonio SNCC chapter was part Black Panther Party and part SNCC. Dr. Charles Jones of Albany State University termed it a \"hybrid organization\" because it had Panther-style survival programs. Salas also worked closely with La Raza Unida Party, running for political office and organizing demonstrations to expose discrimination against Blacks and Latinos. Salas later helped the New Jewel Movement in the otherthrow of Eric Gairy in 1979, the leader of the island of Grenada. He also became the chairman of the Free Nelson Mandela Movement in San Antonio, Texas.\n\nCharles McDew, SNCC's second chairman, said that the organization was not designed to last beyond its mission of winning civil rights for blacks, and that at the founding meetings most participants expected it to last no more than five years: \n\nBy the time of its conclusion, many of the controversial ideas that once had defined SNCC's radicalism had become widely accepted among African Americans.\n\nMost of SNCC's early activity took place in Georgia and Mississippi. In the early 1960s, they mainly focused on voter registration projects in the South, and multiple chapters were established throughout the region. The Freedom Rides, in which interracial groups rode buses together and challenged segregated seating arrangements, brought them media attention and helped raise awareness in the North. In 1963, they played an important role in the March on Washington.\n\nThe 1964 voter registration project called \"Freedom Summer\" focused on Mississippi and marked the beginning of SNCC's rejection of Northern white volunteers. Under Stokely Carmichael's leadership, SNCC shifted its focus to the North, where it focused on alleviating poverty in Northern urban areas. As SNCC became more radical in 1966 and 1967, Carmichael established ties with several foreign governments. SNCC was eventually overshadowed by the Black Panther Party, who had a broader national reach.\n\nSNCC activist Bernice Johnson Reagon described the Civil Rights Movement as the \"'borning struggle' of the decade, in that it stimulated and informed those that followed it,\" including the modern feminist movement. The influence of the Civil Rights movement inspired mass protests and awareness campaigns as the main methods to obtain sexual equality.\n\nMany black women held prominent positions in the movement as a result of their participation in SNCC. Some of these women include Ruby Doris Smith Robinson, Donna Richards, Fay Bellamy, Gwen Patton, Cynthia Washington, Jean Wiley, Muriel Tillinghast, Fannie Lou Hamer, Annie Pearl Avery, Diane Nash, Ella Baker, Victoria Gray, Unita Blackwell, Bettie Mae Fikes, Joyce Ladner, Dorie Ladner, Gloria Richardson, Bernice Reagon, Prathia Hall, Gwendolyn Delores Robinson/Zoharah Simmons, Judy Richardson, Martha Prescod Norman Noonan, Ruby Sales, Endesha Ida Mae Holland, Eleanor Holmes Norton and Anne Moody.\n\n\"Women who were active in the lunch counter sit-in movement of 1960 led the transformation of SNCC from a coordinating office into a cadre of militant activists dedicated to expanding the civil rights movement throughout the South. In February 1961, Diane Nash and Ruby Doris Smith were among four SNCC members who joined the Rock Hill, South Carolina, desegregation protests, which featured the jail-no-bail tactic-demonstrators serving their jail sentences rather than accepting bail.\" \"In May 1961, Nash led a group of student activists to Alabama in order to sustain the Freedom Rides after the initial group of protesters organized by the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) encountered mob violence in Birmingham. During May and June, Nash, Smith, and other student freedom riders traveled on buses from Montgomery to Jackson, Mississippi, where they were swiftly arrested and imprisoned. In August, when veterans of the sit-ins and the Freedom Rides met to discuss SNCC's future, Baker helped to avoid a damaging split by suggesting separate direct-action and voter-registration wings. Nash became the leader of the direct-action wing of SNCC.\"\n\nYoung black girls also played a significant part in the SNCC demonstrations. In July 1963, dozens of young black girls participated in a SNCC protest of a segregated movie theater in Americus Georgia. Over 30 of them were arrested and eventually held against their will in the Leesburg Stockade. They were freed over a month later due to the help of a SNCC volunteer who photographed the girls and published the pictures in a SNCC newsletter. However, despite the multiple humans rights violations that they enduring in the stockade, many girls continued to fight for civil rights after they were freed. \n\nAnne Moody published her autobiography, \"Coming of Age in Mississippi\", in 1970, detailing her decision to participate in SNCC and later CORE, and her experience as a woman in the movement. She described the widespread trend of black women to become involved with SNCC at their educational institutions. As young college students or teachers, these black women were often heavily involved in grassroots campaign by teaching Freedom Schools and promoting voter registration.\n\nYoung white women also became very involved with SNCC, particularly after the Freedom Summer of 1964. Many northern white women were inspired by the ideology of racial equality. The book \"Deep in Our Hearts\" details the experiences of nine white women in SNCC. Some white women, such as Mary King, Constance W. Curry, and Casey Hayden, and Latino women such as Mary Varela and Elizabeth Sutherland Martinez, were able to obtain status and leadership within SNCC.\n\nThrough organizations like SNCC, women of both races were becoming more politically active than at any time in American history since the Women's suffrage movement. A group of women in SNCC, later identified as Mary King and Casey Hayden, openly challenged the way women were treated when they issued the \"SNCC Position Paper (Women in the Movement), or adapted an earlier paper submitted at Waveland Meeting by Elaine DeLott Baker.\" The paper was published anonymously, helping King and Hayden to avoid unwanted attention. The paper listed 11 events in which women were treated as subordinate to men. According to the paper, women in SNCC did not have a chance to become the face of the organization, the top leaders, because they were assigned to clerical and housekeeping duties, whereas men were involved in decision-making. The degree and significance of male-domination and women's subordination was hotly debated within SNCC; many of SNCC's black women disputed the premise that women were denied leadership roles. Ruby Doris Smith was often falsely attributed as author of paper, yet Smith was looking towards black nationalism at this time rather than interracial feminism. The following year, King and Hayden produced another document entitled \"Sex and Caste: A Kind of Memo\". The document was published in 1966 by Liberation, the magazine of the War Resisters League. \"Sex and Caste\" has since been credited as one of the generative documents that launched second-wave feminism.\n\nWhen Stokely Carmichael was elected Chair of SNCC, he reoriented the path of the organization towards Black Power. He famously said in a speech, \"it is a call for black people to define their own goals, to lead their own organizations.\" Thus, white women lost their influence and power in SNCC; Mary King and Casey Hayden left to become active in pursuing equality for women.\n\nWhile it is often argued that the Black Power period led to a downgrading of women generally in the organization, historian Barbara Ransby notes that there is no real evidence of this. Carmichael appointed several women to posts as project directors during his tenure as chairman; by the latter half of the 1960s, more women were in charge of SNCC projects than during the first half. Former SNCC member Kathleen Cleaver played a key role in the central committee of the Black Panther Party as communications secretary (1968). Her position in this \"male dominated\" leadership was both effective and influential to Brown, Red and Yellow Power groups of the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nIn 1968, the Third World Women's Alliance (TWWA) was originated in New York by Frances M. Beal as a caucus of SNCC, addressing the issue of sexism within the movement. By 1970 it had become independent from SNCC, but maintained close ties with it. TWWA came to focus less on specifically black power and more on Puerto Rican and Cuban liberation. It continued to operate until 1978, with chapters in several major cities. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34012719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34012719", "title": "Supernatural gift", "text": "Supernatural gift\n\nIn Christian theology, a supernatural gift is a gift of God that is conferred on man that is above all the powers of created nature. An example of this is the gift of grace which enables man to attain salvation despite original sin.\n"}
{"id": "5435789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5435789", "title": "Symbiosism", "text": "Symbiosism\n\nSymbiosism is a philosophy about the mind and man’s place in nature. It is a Darwinian theory, which considers language an organism residing in the human brain and claims that language is a memetic life form. Symbiosism is defined by the Leiden School.\n\nMemes are meanings, i.e. iso-functional neuroanatomical constructs corresponding to signs in the sense of Ferdinand de Saussure. Meanings thrive, replicate incessantly and constitute the essence of language. An essential characteristic of memes is that linguistic meanings have the nature of nonconstructible sets in the mathematical sense and do not abide by constraints governing Aristotelian logic, such as the principle of the excluded middle. The Leiden conception of the meme contrasts with the Oxford definition as a unit of imitation, a behavioral notion that in Leiden is captured by the term \"meme\". The fecundity of memes as replicators and their fidelity of replication are limited, more so in pre-linguistic contexts.\n\nLanguage is a mutualist symbiont and enters into a mutually beneficial relationship with its hominid host. Humans propagate language, whilst language furnishes the conceptual universe that guides and shapes the thinking of the hominid host. Language enhances the Darwinian fitness of the human species. Yet individual grammatical and lexical meanings and configurations of memes mediated by language may be either beneficial or deleterious to the biological host. The symbiosis is rendered more complex than just simple mutualism, both by the physiological discrepancy between language as an overall condition and the nature of individual ideas conveyed through language, as well as by the ecological difference between vertically and horizontally transmitted memes. The symbiotic theory of language propounded by George van Driem grew out of the Leiden school of language evolution, fathered by Frederik Kortlandt.\n\n"}
{"id": "7104354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7104354", "title": "Tenzo", "text": "Tenzo\n\nTenzo (Japanese: 典座) is a title given to the chef at a Buddhist monastery. The word Tenzo has Japanese roots and literally means \"Heavenly Monk\".\n\nFrom ancient times Buddhist monasteries have had six office-holders who, as disciples of the Buddha, guide the monastic community. Amongst these, the tenzo bears the responsibility of caring for the community's meals. The Zen Monastic Standards states; \"The tenzo functions as the one who makes offerings with reverence to the monks.\"\n\nSince ancient times this office has been held by realized monks or by senior disciples who have roused the enlightened. Those entrusted with this work but who lack a disciplined mind will only cause and endure hardship despite all their efforts. The Zen Monastic Standards states; \"Putting the mind of the Way to work, serve carefully varied meals appropriate to each occasion and thus allow everyone to practice without hindrance.\"\n\nThe Tenzo does much more than a \"cook\" does. It is one of the most demanding positions. The Tenzo prepares meal plans for Sesshin, making sure all the ingredients are present. The vast majority of food comes from takuhatsu. It means the vegetables are not prime choice, not really \"fresh\" as sold in stores. It is the job of the Tenzo to provide nutritional meals from the donations received from takuhatsu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22129927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22129927", "title": "The Jingde Record of the Transmission of the Lamp", "text": "The Jingde Record of the Transmission of the Lamp\n\nThe Jingde Record of the Transmission of the Lamp (), often referred to as The Transmission of the Lamp, is a 30 volume work consisting of putative biographies of the Chan (or Zen) patriarchs and other prominent Buddhist monks. It was produced in the Song dynasty by Shi Daoyuan (). Other than the \"Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall\", it represents the first appearance of \"encounter dialogues\" in the Chan tradition, which in turn are the antecedents of the famous kōan stories.\n\nThe word \"Jingde\" (景德), the first two characters of the title, refers to the Song dynasty reign name, which dates the work to between 1004 and 1007 CE. It is a primary source of information for the history of Chan Buddhism in China, although most scholars interpret the biographies as largely hagiography. The lives of the Zen masters and disciples are systematically listed, beginning with the first seven buddhas (Gautama Buddha is seventh in this list). The \"Lamp\" in the title refers to the \"Dharma\", the teachings of the Buddhism. A total of 1701 biographies are listed in the book. Volumes 1 to 3 are devoted to the history of Indian Buddhism, and the history of Buddhism in China starts in chapter 4 with Bodhidharma. Volume 29 is a collection of gathas, and volume 30 is a collection of songs and other devotional material.\n\nThe complete text (in simplified Chinese) of the \"Transmission of the Lamp\" is available from Beijing Guoxue (北京国学).\n"}
{"id": "780603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780603", "title": "The Open Society and Its Enemies", "text": "The Open Society and Its Enemies\n\nThe Open Society and Its Enemies is a work on political philosophy by the philosopher Karl Popper, in which the author presents a \"defence of the open society against its enemies\", and offers a critique of theories of teleological historicism, according to which history unfolds inexorably according to universal laws. Popper indicts Plato, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, and Karl Marx as totalitarian for relying on historicism to underpin their political philosophies, though his interpretations of all three philosophers have been criticized.\n\nWritten during World War II, \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\" was published in 1945 in London by Routledge in two volumes: \"The Spell of Plato\" and \"The High Tide of Prophecy: Hegel, Marx, and the Aftermath\". A one-volume edition with a new introduction by Alan Ryan and an essay by E. H. Gombrich was published by Princeton University Press in 2013. The work was listed as one of the Modern Library Board's 100 Best Nonfiction books of the 20th century.\n\nPopper develops a critique of historicism and a defense of the \"open society\" and liberal democracy. The subtitle of his first volume, \"The Spell of Plato\", makes clear Popper's view—namely, that most Plato interpreters through the ages have been seduced by Plato's greatness and inimitable style. In so doing, Popper argues, they have taken Plato's political philosophy as a benign idyll, without taking into account its dangerous tendencies toward totalitarian ideology.\n\nContrary to major Plato scholars of his day, Popper divorced Plato's ideas from those of Socrates, claiming that the former in his later years expressed none of the humanitarian and democratic tendencies of his teacher. In particular, Popper accuses Plato of betraying Socrates in the \"Republic\", wherein Plato portrays Socrates sympathizing with totalitarianism (\"see: Socratic problem\").\n\nPopper extols Plato's analysis of social change and discontent, naming him as a great sociologist, yet rejects his solutions. This is dependent on Popper's reading of the emerging humanitarian ideals of Athenian democracy as the birth pangs of his coveted \"open society\". Plato's hatred of democracy led him, says Popper, \"to defend lying, political miracles, tabooistic superstition, the suppression of truth, and ultimately, brutal violence.\" Popper feels that Plato's historicist ideas are driven by a fear of the change that liberal democracies bring about. Also, as an aristocrat and a relative of one-time Athenian dictator Critias, Plato according to Popper was sympathetic to the oligarchs of his own day and contemptuous of the common man. Popper also suspects that Plato was the victim of his own vanity, and had wished to become the supreme Philosopher King of his vision.\n\nThe last chapter of the first volume bears the same title as the book, and conveys Popper's own philosophical explorations on the necessity of direct liberal democracy as the only form of government allowing institutional improvements without violence and bloodshed.\n\nIn volume two, \"The High Tide of Prophecy: Hegel, Marx, and the Aftermath\", Popper criticises Hegel and Marx, tracing their ideas to Aristotle, and arguing that they were at the root of 20th century totalitarianism.\n\nInsofar as Hegel is concerned, Popper favorably cites the views of Hegel's compatriot and personal acquaintance, the philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer, Hegel, installed from above, by the powers that be, as the certified Great Philosopher, was a flat-headed, insipid, nauseating, illiterate charlatan, who reached the pinnacle of audacity in scribbling together and dishing up the craziest mystifying nonsense. This nonsense has been noisily proclaimed as immortal wisdom by mercenary followers and readily accepted as such by all fools, who thus joined into as perfect a chorus of admiration as had ever been heard before. The extensive field of spiritual influence with which Hegel was furnished by those in power has enabled him to achieve the intellectual corruption of a whole generation.' \"\nIn the fifth section of his chapter on Hegel he deals with Hegel's influence on 20th century fascism explicitly focusing on the historicist elements of fascism rather than its totalitarianism. \n\nThe next principal enemy of the open society, according to Popper, is Karl Marx. Popper concedes that, unlike Hegel, Marx deeply cared about the plight of ordinary people and the injustices that prevailed in his own day in capitalist societies. As well, Marx's writings offer keen economic, sociological, and historical insights. However, even where Popper considers Marx's views has value Popper considers Marx's historicism to have lead Marx into overstating his case - for instance the importance of class struggle. Popper rejects outright, however, Marx's historicist, anti-rational, and totalitarian outlook.\n\nAs Popper wrote in academic obscurity in New Zealand during World War II, several colleagues in philosophy and the social sciences assisted with the book's path to publication. Gombrich was entrusted with the task of finding a publisher, Friedrich Hayek wanted to recruit Popper to the London School of Economics and was enthused by his turn to social philosophy, and Lionel Robbins and Harold Laski reviewed the manuscript. J.N. Findlay suggested the book's title after three others had been discarded. ('A Social Philosophy for Everyman' was the original title of the manuscript; 'Three False Prophets: Plato-Hegel-Marx' and 'A Critique of Political Philosophy' were also considered and rejected.)\n\nThe book was not published in Russia until 1992.\n\nPopper's book remains one of the most popular defenses of Western liberal values in the post World War 2 era. Gilbert Ryle, reviewing Popper's book just two years after its publication and agreeing with him, wrote that Plato \"was Socrates' Judas.\" \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\" was praised by the philosophers Bertrand Russell, who called it \"a work of first-class importance\" and \"a vigorous and profound defence of democracy\", and Sidney Hook who called it a \"subtly argued and passionately written\" critique of the \"historicist ideas that threaten the love of freedom [and] the existence of an open society\". Hook calls Popper's critique of the cardinal beliefs of historicism \"undoubtedly sound\", noting that historicism \"overlooks the presence of genuine alternatives in history, the operation of plural causal processes in the historical pattern, and the role of human ideals in redetermining the future\". Nevertheless, Hook argues that Popper \"reads Plato too literally when it serves his purposes and is too cocksure about what Plato's 'real' meaning is when the texts are ambiguous\", and calls Popper's treatment of Hegel \"downright abusive\" and \"demonstrably false\", noting that \"there is not a single reference to Hegel in Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\"\".\n\nSome other philosophers were critical. Walter Kaufmann believed that Popper's work has many virtues, including its attack against totalitarianism, and many suggestive ideas. However, he also found it to have serious flaws, writing that Popper's interpretations of Plato were flawed and that Popper had provided a \"comprehensive statement\" of older myths about Hegel. Kaufmann commented that despite Popper's hatred of totalitarianism, Popper's method was \"unfortunately similar to that of totalitarian 'scholars'\".\n\nIn his \"The Open Philosophy and the Open Society: A Reply to Dr. Karl Popper's Refutations of Marxism\" (1968), the Marxist author Maurice Cornforth defended Marxism against Popper's criticisms . Though disagreeing with Popper, Cornforth nevertheless called him \"perhaps the most eminent\" critic of Marxism. The philosopher Robert C. Solomon writes that Popper directs an \"almost wholly unjustified polemic\" against Hegel, one which has helped to give Hegel a reputation as a \"moral and political reactionary\". The Marxist economist Ernest Mandel identifies \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\" as part of a literature, beginning with German social democrat Eduard Bernstein, that criticizes the dialectical method Marx borrowed from Hegel as \"useless\", \"metaphysical\", or \"mystifying.\" He faults Popper and the other critics for their \"positivist narrowness\".\n\nThe political theorist Rajeev Bhargava argues that Popper \"notoriously misreads Hegel and Marx\", and that the formulation Popper deployed to defend liberal political values is \"motivated by partisan ideological considerations grounded curiously in the most abstract metaphysical premises\". In Jon Stewart's anthology \"The Hegel Myths and Legends\" (1996), \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\" is listed as a work that has propagated \"myths\" about Hegel. Stephen Houlgate writes that while Popper's accusation that Hegel sought to deceive others by use of dialectic is famous, it is also ignorant, as is Popper's charge that Hegel's account of sound and heat in the \"Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences\" is \"gibberish\".\n\nThe Open Society Foundations, created by investor George Soros, claim to be inspired in name and purpose by Popper's book.\n\nThe philosopher Joseph Agassi credits Popper with showing that historicism is a factor common to both fascism and Bolshevism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45564521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45564521", "title": "Vladimir Trefilov", "text": "Vladimir Trefilov\n\nVladimir Aleksandrovich Trefilov (; born 1949) is a Russian scholar of religious studies, philosophy of medicine, author and lecturer. He is also known as a poet, painter and yogi.\n\nBorn in Izhevsk, Udmurt Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, Trefilov studied History at Udmurt State University and Philosophy at Moscow State University. From 1975 he works for Izhevsk State Medical Academy. He obtained his Candidate of Sciences diploma and became in 1991 Head of the Department of Philosophy and Humanities at the Izhevsk State Medical Academy. He is author of over 50 scientific works. In 1992 he studied in United States.\n\nTrefilov is a member of the Academic Council of the Kalashnikov Museum, in this museum he reads a cycle of public lectures \"Geopolitics and Military History\".\n\nTrefilov is author a book of sonnets \"Fireseed.\" (1989). In 2001 he became the head of \"Udmurt Literature Union\". Trefilov's pictures (in genre of \"transrealism\") have been displayed at 18 art exhibitions in Russia and there are in many private collections of Russia, England, USA. He has yoga teacher's international certificate.\n\nTrefilov says he studied in 1992 in USA. Someway, in the beginning of December, surveying during walk on a vicinity of Manhattan, he gazed at \"two enormous buildings\" and suddenly has thought of fragility of these demonstrative displays of technical progress and is unexpected for itself has presented, as they flare and fall... He says, that, probably, behind it there was a sensation of alarm concerning vulnerability of a civilization, life, a universe. It considers, that, probably, the intuition has worked. He has returned to \"native Izhevsk and has drawn four variants of it, as now began repeat often, apocalypse.\" Trefilov has finished the first picture in 1996, named its \"Angel of the Bottomless Pit.\" In 1997 there was the second, under the name \"The Star Wormwood.\" September 14, 2001 newspaper \"День\" wrote that \"on September 12th, 2001 Vladimir Trefilov has urgently organized display of the pictures, considering that they most precisely correspond to the today's validity.\" After the terrorist attacks of 11 September the fact of Trefilov's prediction evoked a wide public response and was reported both in the press and on TV.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24510892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24510892", "title": "Weiser Antiquarian Books", "text": "Weiser Antiquarian Books\n\nWeiser Antiquarian Books is the oldest occult bookstore in the United States. It specialises in books on Aleister Crowley and his circle, magic, mysticism, eastern religions and alternative spirituality. Its earlier New York incarnation, The Weiser Bookshop, was described by Leslie A. Shepherd as \"perhaps the most famous occult bookstore in the U.S.\" \n\nThe original Samuel Weiser Bookstore was started in New York City's famous \"Book Row\" area by Samuel Weiser in 1926. It moved several times within the \"Book Row\" before relocating to 117 4th Avenue, where it remained for a number of decades. To start with Samuel Weiser Books sold general used books, but with an emphasis on the occult and comparative religion. In 1949 Samuel Weiser was joined by his brother Ben who had worked with him for a few years in the 1930s. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s they increased Weiser Books' specialist focus on the occult at a time when many bookstores refused to handle such subjects.\n\nOne of the customers of the shop was Karl Germer, successor to Aleister Crowley as head of the Ordo Templi Orientis. After Crowley's death, most of his papers and other possessions were shipped to Germer including the unbound sheets of the 1937 edition of his book \"The Equinox of the Gods\". In 1955 Germer sold the sheets to Samuel Weiser who had them bound up in maroon cloth and sold through the shop. This was probably one of the first books to be published by Samuel Weiser – although it retained the original O.T.O. title page and imprint. Germer also sold Weiser a collection of the First Edition of Crowley's masterwork on the tarot, \"The Book of Thoth\". Despite being leather bound, printed on handmade paper, and in an edition of only 200 copies signed by Crowley himself, interest in \"the Beast\" was low at the time and for nearly two decades copies could be purchased from the shop for $50 or less (as of 2009, they command thousands of dollars).\n\nRising rents and urban change forced many of the bookstores out of \"Book Row.\" A number moved into the adjacent Broadway, with Weiser, whose stock had now grown to over a hundred thousand volumes, taking a premises at 845 Broadway. The new building had a huge basement, which the Weiser brothers crammed with books on all manner of subjects. After a heart attack forced Samuel Weiser into semi-retirement, Ben Weiser was joined by Samuel's son Donald.\n\nSamuel Weiser had begun publishing in the mid-1950s, and through the late 1950s produced a small number of books under the Occult Research Press imprint before starting to publish under his own name. The development of the 1960s \"counter-culture,\" and the growth of popular interest in esotericism and Eastern religious and mystical traditions, allowed Ben and Donald Weiser to expand the company's publishing activities. They recruited many contemporary authors, such as Israel Regardie, who were customers. The shop's stock also provided them with rare and out-of-print books that they could reprint.\n\nThe late 1960s saw the bookstore go through another move, this time into two floors at 734 Broadway, not far from Astor Place. The move gave Donald Weiser, who now ran the business with the assistance of Fred Mendel, the chance to further increase their specialisation. In addition to used and rare books on the occult, Weiser Books, or \"The Weiser Bookstore\" as it was then known, also stocked new domestic and imported titles. The publishing side of the business was also expanded, and moved into its own premises at 625 Broadway.\n\nBy the early 1980s the costs of maintaining a number of businesses in New York City had grown increasingly difficult to sustain, and Donald Weiser moved Samuel Weiser Publishing and the new book distribution wing of the company to York, Maine.\n\nIn 1985 he also moved the specialist rare books section of the company, now named Weiser Antiquarian Books, to York, where it shared a two storey warehouse with the publishing company's distribution centre. Much to the dismay of its many New York city customers, soaring city rents brought about the closure of the Broadway store in the early 1990s. Its huge stock of books was packed into shipping containers and moved to the new location in Maine, to be added to the stock of Weiser Antiquarian Books.\n\nIn the year 2000 Donald Weiser sold the publishing division of the company. Its new owners renamed it Red Wheel / Weiser but kept its York premises until 2006, when they moved the publishing company's editorial department to San Francisco and its marketing department to Newburyport, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 2005 Donald Weiser retired, and Weiser Antiquarian Books was purchased by its then-director Marilyn Rinn, and Australian writer and bookseller, Keith Richmond. The following year they moved the company to its current premises in Cape Neddick Maine: a one-time art gallery for American artist Walt Kuhn, which had more recently been the headquarters of Samuel Weiser Publishing. In 2007 they also began publishing under the Teitan Press imprint which was founded by Martin P. Starr and Frank Winston.\n\nFor decades the Weiser Bookstore issued printed catalogs that listed anywhere between a few hundred and several thousand items, with basic descriptions of the book's author, title, condition and price. The advent of the internet brought an end to these printed catalogs, and for some years Weiser Antiquarian Books only listed its books on various internet book-sites and directly on to its own website.\n\nIn January 2006, Weiser Antiquarian Books began issuing a new series of on-line catalogs. Most of these catalogs are devoted to a specific author or theme. A large number have been devoted to the works of Aleister Crowley (in whom the store specialises), as well as authors including Dion Fortune, Israel Regardie, John Dee and Austin Osman Spare. In a number of cases – such as their catalogs on Jack Parsons, Marcelo Ramos Motta and Kenneth Grant – these are the first bookseller catalogs devoted specifically to these authors. Other catalogs have been devoted to specific journals - notably \"The Occult Review\", \"The Inner Light\", and \"Ambix\", - and subjects such as alchemy, spiritualism, Hermetica, Hermetic Qabalah, magick, The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn and Rosicrucianism. Others have been devoted to books from specific collections: for example those of Helen Parsons Smith, Ray Burlingame, Edward Noel FitzGerald and Jean Michaud, or to collections of documents such as the Karl Germer / Reea Leffingwell correspondence or the C. F. Russell / Sydney Hamilton French / G∴B∴G∴ archive.\n\nThe catalogs contain bibliographical, historical and biographical information about the books offered for sale, and often detail previously unpublished manuscript and other material. They are often cited by researchers in on-line and printed publications. At the request of customers and researchers, the older catalogs are now kept in an online archive. \n\nWeiser Antiquarian Books is now primarily an internet retailer, and does not maintain an open shop, but is open to established customers by prior appointment.\n"}
{"id": "58317212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58317212", "title": "Yoshihiro Nitta (philosopher)", "text": "Yoshihiro Nitta (philosopher)\n\nHe studied from 1949 to 1957 at the Tohoku University in the field of philosophy. He also received a scholarship from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation to study at the University of Cologne.\n\nBetween 1970 to until his retirement in 1999, he taught philosophy as a full professor at the Toyo University.\n\n\n"}
