{"id": "13413141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13413141", "title": "A. J. Banal", "text": "A. J. Banal\n\nAlex John Banal (born December 28, 1988), more commonly known as A. J. “Bazooka” Banal, is a Filipino professional boxer. Banal resides in Ermita, Cebu City, Cebu, where he trains in the city's famed ALA Boxing Gym.\n\nBanal's interest in boxing began through the inspiration of his uncle, Roselito Campaña, who was also a boxer for the ALA Boxing Gym. At the age of three, Banal joined the ALA team as an amateur, and has been with the organization ever since.\n\nBanal, aspiring to succeed in the sport, turned pro during the year of 2005. His first opponent being unheralded Sonny Saguing. The bout ended with a technical draw, with Banal suffering a big cut on his eyebrow due to an unintentional headbutt. Banal was very disappointed in the outcome of the fight, and aspired to keep his then undefeated record intact.\n\nBanal underwent a huge change in competition in only his second year as a pro. He faced tougher opposition, compared to the fighters he previously faced at the time, fighting prospects, who like him, were undefeated. Banal had a record of 7-0-1 when he faced undefeated Indonesian prospect Ali Rochmad (13-0), whom Banal easily defeated with a 5th-round knockout (KO). Two months later, he faced undefeated Thai prospect Janesuk King Sports (11-0), who retired from the bout after the sixth round. And just a month after fighting the then undefeated Thai, Banal fought and defeated highly rated Indonesian contender, Angky Angkota, who sported a record of 17-3 before he lost to Banal by unanimous decision (UD).\n\nAfter winning his next five fights, including his U.S. debut, Banal then had a chance to collect his first regional belt, facing Esau Gaona of Mexico. Banal easily defeated the Mexican, winning the bout with a first-round KO with a powerful straight to the jaw, winning the then vacant WBO Asia Pacific Youth super flyweight title. He then defended his title for the first and last time against Mexican Jovanny Soto, whom he defeated with a ninth-round technical knockout.\n\nAfter the Soto bout, Banal had an opportunity to fight for the mandatory contender spot in an IBF super flyweight title eliminator. On April 6, 2008, in Quezon City, Philippines, Banal fought the then undefeated Caril Herrera of Uruguay (21-0) for this challenge. Banal, not to disappoint, defeated the then undefeated fighter with a fourth-round TKO, earning a shot at the IBF super flyweight title.\n\nAlthough he won a chance for the IBF title, Banal turned down the opportunity in order to fight under another sanctioning body. On July 26, 2008, in the Cebu Coliseum in Cebu City, Banal fought for the interim WBA super flyweight title. Despite leading in all three judges' scorecards, he lost by knockout to Panama's Rafael Concepción. Banal took a right hand to the temple region in Round 10 from Concepción, after being knocked down, he then took a knee throughout the referee's count, marking his first ever defeat in his professional career.\n\nFollowing his knockout loss to Concepción, Banal moved up one weight class, to the bantamweight division. On January 31, 2009, in Banal's bantamweight debut, he faced Indonesian Nouldy Manakane, whom he defeated by knockout in just four rounds of action. He then faced Tanzanian Mbwana Matumla, four months later, who he defeated in just two rounds. Following his two knockout wins over Manakane and Matumla, he faced rugged Mexican Jose Angel Beranza in the undercard of Brian Viloria's first title defense of his newly won IBF light flyweight title, in Honolulu, Hawaii. Banal was unable to knockout the always forwarding Mexican, but was able to prevail by UD, with scores of 99-92, 98-92, and 99-91, all in favor of AJ \"Bazooka\" Banal.\n\nOn January 14, 2010, Banal defeated a former 4-time world title challenger in Cecilio Santos of Mexico. Banal, cheered by his hometown fans in Cebu, was hesitant to begin the fight. But in the following two rounds, Banal began to hit his mark. And finally, in the 4th round of the bout, Banal was able to land his dangerous left hook to the temple, followed up with his trademark aggression, eventually sending Santos to the canvas. The Mexican, with all his might just couldn't continue, and was eventually counted out in the 35-second mark of the 4th round, further pushing Banal to hopefully another world title fight.\n\nBanal fought Japan's Big Yoo (16-2; 11 KO) on July 17, 2010 at the Carlos P. Garcia Stadium, Tagbilaran City, Bohol. The Filipino fighter won the bout by KO in the 5th round.\n\nOn October 31, 2010, Banal won by disqualification against the veteran Luis Alberto Perez. Banal won the first 6 rounds of the fight until round 7, the veteran Perez came back and give heavy blows that staggers Banal. After the referee break them Perez clinch a punch on Banal and made Banal unable to continue. Banal won by DQ.\n\nOn October 21 Banal loses Thailand’s Pungluang Sor Singyu with the later taking the vacant WBO bantamweight title, with a ninth-round TKO. The fight took place at the Mall of Asia Arena.\n"}
{"id": "23718902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23718902", "title": "A Simple Death", "text": "A Simple Death\n\nA Simple Death () is a 1985 Soviet drama film directed by Alexander Kaidanovsky. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1987 Cannes Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "55843837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55843837", "title": "Automated machine learning", "text": "Automated machine learning\n\nAutomated machine learning (AutoML) is the process of automating the end-to-end process of applying machine learning to real-world problems. In a typical machine learning application, practitioners must apply the appropriate data pre-processing, feature engineering, feature extraction, and feature selection methods that make the dataset amenable for machine learning. Following those preprocessing steps, practitioners must then perform algorithm selection and hyperparameter optimization to maximize the predictive performance of their final machine learning model. As many of these steps are often beyond the abilities of non-experts, AutoML was proposed as an artificial intelligence-based solution to the ever-growing challenge of applying machine learning. Automating the end-to-end process of applying machine learning offers the advantages of producing simpler solutions, faster creation of those solutions, and models that often outperform models that were designed by hand.\n\nAutomated machine learning can target various stages of the machine learning process:\n\nSoftware tackling various stages of AutoML:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242100", "title": "Baroreceptor", "text": "Baroreceptor\n\nBaroreceptors (or archaically, pressoreceptors) are sensors located in the blood vessels of all vertebrate animals. They sense the blood pressure and relay the information to the brain, so that a proper blood pressure can be maintained.\n\nBaroreceptors are a type of mechanoreceptor sensory neuron that are excited by a stretch of the blood vessel. Thus, increases in the pressure of blood vessel triggers increased action potential generation rates and provides information to the central nervous system. This sensory information is used primarily in autonomic reflexes that in turn influence the heart cardiac output and vascular smooth muscle to influence total peripheral resistance. Baroreceptors act immediately as part of a negative feedback system called the baroreflex, as soon as there is a change from the usual mean arterial blood pressure, returning the pressure toward a normal level. These reflexes help regulate short-term blood pressure. The solitary nucleus in the medulla oblongata of the brain recognizes changes in the firing rate of action potentials from the baroreceptors, and influences cardiac output and systemic vascular resistance.\n\nBaroreceptors can be divided into two categories based on the type of blood vessel in which they are located: high-pressure arterial baroreceptors and low-pressure baroreceptors (also known as cardiopulmonary or volume receptors).\n\nArterial baroreceptors are stretch receptors that are stimulated by distortion of the arterial wall when pressure changes. The baroreceptors can identify the changes in both the average blood pressure or the rate of change in pressure with each arterial pulse. Action potentials triggered in the baroreceptor ending are then directly conducted to the brainstem where central terminations (synapses) transmit this information to neurons within the solitary nucleus which lies in the medulla. Reflex responses from such baroreceptor activity can trigger increases or decreases in the heart rate. Arterial baroreceptor sensory endings are simple, splayed nerve endings that lie in the tunica adventitia of the artery. An increase in the mean arterial pressure increases depolarization of these sensory endings, which results in action potentials. These action potentials are conducted to the solitary nucleus in the central nervous system by axons and have a reflex effect on the cardiovascular system through autonomic neurons. Hormone secretions that target the heart and blood vessels are affected by the stimulation of baroreceptors.\n\nAt normal resting blood pressures, baroreceptors discharge with each heart beat. If blood pressure falls, such as on orthostatic hypotension or in hypovolaemic shock, baroreceptor firing rate decreases and baroreceptor reflexes act to help restore blood pressure by increasing heart rate. Signals from the carotid baroreceptors are sent via the glossopharyngeal nerve (cranial nerve IX). Signals from the aortic baroreceptors travel through the vagus nerve (cranial nerve X). Carotid sinus baroreceptors are responsive to both increases or decreases in arterial pressure, while aortic arch baroreceptors are only responsive to increases in arterial pressure. Arterial baroreceptors inform reflexes about arterial blood pressure but other stretch receptors in the large veins and right atrium convey information about the low pressure parts of the circulatory system.\n\nBaroreceptors respond very quickly to maintain a stable blood pressure, but their responses diminish with time and thus are most effective for conveying short term changes in blood pressure. In people with essential hypertension the baroreceptors and their reflexes change and function to maintain the elevated blood pressure as if normal. The receptors then become less sensitive to change.\n\nElectrical stimulation of baroreceptors has been found to activate the baroreflex, reducing sympathetic tone throughout the body and thereby reducing blood pressure in patients with resistant hypertension.\n\nThe low-pressure baroreceptors, are found in large systemic veins, in pulmonary vessels, and in the walls of the right atrium and ventricles of the heart (the atrial volume receptors). The low-pressure baroreceptors are involved with the regulation of blood volume. The blood volume determines the mean pressure throughout the system, in particular in the venous side where most of the blood is held.\n\nThe low-pressure baroreceptors have both circulatory and renal effects; they produce changes in hormone secretion, resulting in profound effects on the retention of salt and water; they also influence intake of salt and water. The renal effects allow the receptors to change the mean pressure in the system in the long term.\n\nDenervating these receptors 'fools' the body into thinking that it has too low blood volume and initiates mechanisms that retain fluid and so push up the blood pressure to a higher level than it would otherwise have.\n\nBaroreceptors are integral to the body's function: Pressure changes in the blood vessels would not be detected as quickly in the absence of baroreceptors. When baroreceptors are not working, blood pressure continues to increase, but, within an hour, the blood pressure returns to normal as other blood pressure regulatory systems take over.\n\nBaroreceptors can also become oversensitive in some people (usually the carotid baroreceptors in older males). This can lead to bradycardia, dizziness and fainting (syncope) from touching the neck (often whilst shaving). This is an important cause to exclude in men having pre-syncope or syncope symptoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "15691527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15691527", "title": "Beauchamp–Sharp Tragedy", "text": "Beauchamp–Sharp Tragedy\n\nThe Beauchamp–Sharp Tragedy (sometimes called the Kentucky Tragedy) was the murder of Kentucky legislator Solomon P. Sharp by Jereboam O. Beauchamp (bee-chum). As a young lawyer, Beauchamp had been an admirer of Sharp until Sharp allegedly fathered an illegitimate child with Anna Cooke, a planter's daughter. Sharp denied paternity of the stillborn child. Later, Beauchamp began a relationship with Cooke, who agreed to marry him on the condition that he kill Sharp to avenge her honor. Beauchamp and Cooke married in June 1824, and in the early morning of November 7, 1825, Beauchamp murdered Sharp at Sharp's home in Frankfort.\n\nAn investigation soon revealed Beauchamp as the killer, and he was apprehended at his home in Glasgow, four days after the murder. He was tried, convicted, and sentenced to death by hanging. He was granted a stay of execution to allow him to write a justification of his actions. Anna Cooke-Beauchamp was tried for complicity in the murder, but was acquitted for lack of evidence. Her devotion to Beauchamp prompted her to stay in his cell with him, where the two attempted a double suicide by drinking laudanum shortly before the execution. This attempt failed. On the morning of the execution, the couple again attempted suicide, this time by stabbing themselves with a knife Anna had smuggled into the cell. When the guards discovered them, Beauchamp was rushed to the gallows, where he was hanged before he could die of his stab wound. He was the first person legally executed in the state of Kentucky. Anna Cooke-Beauchamp died from her wounds shortly before her husband was hanged. In accordance with their wishes, the couple's bodies were positioned in an embrace when buried in the same coffin.\n\nWhile Beauchamp's primary motive in killing Sharp was to defend the honor of his wife, speculation raged that Sharp's political opponents had instigated the crime. Sharp was a leader of the New Court party during the Old Court – New Court controversy in Kentucky. At least one Old Court partisan alleged that Sharp denied paternity of Cooke's son by claiming the child was a mulatto, the son of a family slave. Whether Sharp made such a claim has never been verified. New Court partisans insisted that the allegation was concocted to stir Beauchamp's anger and provoke him to murder. The Beauchamp–Sharp Tragedy served as the inspiration for numerous literary works, most notably Edgar Allan Poe's unfinished \"Politian\" and Robert Penn Warren's \"World Enough and Time\" (1950).\n\nJereboam Beauchamp was born in Barren County, Kentucky, in 1802. Educated in the school of Dr. Benjamin Thurston, he resolved to study law at age eighteen. While observing the lawyers practicing in Glasgow and Bowling Green, Beauchamp was particularly impressed with the abilities of Solomon P. Sharp. Sharp had twice been elected to the state legislature and had served two terms in the U.S. House of Representatives. Beauchamp became disenchanted with Sharp when, in 1820, a planter's daughter named Anna Cooke claimed Sharp was the father of her child, who was stillborn. Sharp denied paternity, and public opinion favored him. The disgraced Cooke became a recluse at her mother's plantation outside Bowling Green.\nBeauchamp's father lived a mile (1.6 km) from Cooke's estate, and the young man wanted to meet her. Beauchamp gradually gained Cooke's trust by visiting under the guise of borrowing books from her library. By summer 1821, the two became friends and began a courtship. Beauchamp was eighteen; Cooke was at least thirty-four. As the courtship progressed, Cooke told Beauchamp that, before they could be married, he would have to kill Solomon Sharp. Beauchamp agreed to her request, expressing his own desire to dispatch Sharp.\n\nThe preferred method of honor killing in that day was a duel. Despite Cooke's admonition that Sharp would not accept a challenge to duel, Beauchamp traveled to Frankfort to gain an audience with him. He had recently been named the state's attorney general by Governor John Adair. Beauchamp's account of the interview states that he bullied and humiliated Sharp, that Sharp begged for his life, and that Beauchamp promised to horsewhip Sharp every day until he consented to the duel. For two days, Beauchamp remained in Frankfort, awaiting the duel. He discovered that Sharp had left town, allegedly destined for Bowling Green. Beauchamp rode to Bowling Green, only to find that Sharp was not there and was not expected. Sharp was saved from Beauchamp's first attempt on his life.\n\nCooke resolved to kill Sharp herself. The next time Sharp was in Bowling Green on business, she sent a letter to him that denounced Beauchamp's actions and claimed she had broken off all contact with him. She asked Sharp to visit her at her plantation before he left town. Sharp questioned the messenger who delivered the letter, as he suspected a trap. He replied to her, saying he would visit at the time appointed. Beauchamp and Cooke awaited the visit, but Sharp never arrived. When Beauchamp rode to Bowling Green to investigate, he learned that Sharp had left for Frankfort two days earlier, leaving substantial unfinished business. Beauchamp concluded that Sharp would eventually have to return to Bowling Green to finish his business there. Determined to await Sharp's return, Beauchamp opened a legal practice in the city. Throughout 1822 and 1823, Beauchamp practiced law and waited for Sharp to return. He never did.\n\nAlthough Beauchamp had not completed the task she set him, Cooke married the younger man in mid-June 1824. Beauchamp immediately hatched another plot to kill Sharp. He began sending letters – each from a different post office and signed with a pseudonym – requesting Sharp's assistance in settling a land claim and asking when he would again be in Green River country. Sharp finally answered Beauchamp's last letter – mailed in June 1825 – but gave no date for his arrival.\n\nServing as attorney general in Governor Adair's administration, Sharp had become involved in the Old Court – New Court controversy. The conflict was primarily between debtors who sought relief from their financial burdens after the Panic of 1819 (the New Court, or Relief, faction) and the creditors to whom these obligations were owed (the Old Court, or Anti-Relief, faction). Sharp, who came from humble beginnings, sided with the New Court. By 1825, the New Court faction's power was on the decline. In an attempt to bolster the party's influence, Sharp resigned as attorney general in 1825 to run for a seat in the Kentucky House of Representatives. His opponent was Old Court stalwart John J. Crittenden.\n\nDuring the campaign, Old Court supporters again raised the issue of Sharp's seduction and abandonment of Anna Cooke. Old Court supporter John Upshaw Waring printed handbills that not only accused Sharp of fathering Cooke's child, but said that Sharp had denied paternity of the child on the grounds that it was a mulatto and the son of a Cooke family slave. Whether Sharp made such a claim has never been determined. Despite the allegations, Sharp won the election.\n\nWord of Sharp's alleged claims soon reached Jereboam Beauchamp, reviving his resolve to kill him. Beauchamp abandoned the idea of killing Sharp honorably in a duel. Instead, he decided to murder him and cast suspicion on his political enemies. To add to the intrigue, Beauchamp plotted to commit the murder on the eve of the General Assembly's opening session.\n\nBeauchamp rode to Frankfort on business, reaching it on November 6. Unable to find lodging at the local inns, he rented a room in the private residence of Joel Scott, warden of the state penitentiary. Sometime after midnight, Scott heard a commotion from Beauchamp's room. When he investigated, he found the door latch open and the room unoccupied. Beauchamp, clad in a disguise, buried a set of his clothes near the Kentucky River, then proceeded to Sharp's house. Sharp was not at home, but Beauchamp soon found him at a local hotel. He returned to Sharp's house, concealed himself nearby, and waited for Sharp's return. He observed Sharp re-enter the house about midnight.\n\nBeauchamp approached the house at approximately two o'clock in the morning on November 7, 1825. In his \"Confession\", he described the encounter:\n\nThe wound severed Sharp's aorta, killing him almost instantly. Sharp's wife Eliza witnessed the entire scene from the top of the stairs in the house, but Beauchamp fled before he could be identified or captured. Returning to the site where he had buried a change of clothes, he stripped off his disguise, tied it up with a rock, and sank them in the Kentucky River. In his regular clothes, he returned to his room at Scott's house, where he remained until the following morning.\n\nAfter learning of the murder, the Kentucky General Assembly authorized the governor to offer a reward of $3,000 for the arrest and conviction of Sharp's killer. The trustees of the city of Frankfort added a reward of $1,000, and friends of Sharp raised an additional $2,000 reward. Suspicion for the killing rested on three men: Beauchamp, Waring, and Patrick H. Darby. During Sharp's 1824 campaign for a seat in the Kentucky House of Representatives, Darby had remarked that, should Sharp be elected, \"he would never take his seat and would be as good as a dead man\". Waring had made similar threats, boasting that he had already stabbed six men.\n\nA warrant was sworn out for Waring's arrest, but officials soon learned that he was incapacitated, after being shot through both hips the day before Sharp's death. When Darby discovered that he was under suspicion, he began his own investigation into the murder. He traveled to Simpson County where he met Captain John F. Lowe, who told Darby that Beauchamp had related to him detailed plans for the assassination. He also furnished Darby with a letter that contained damaging admissions against Beauchamp.\n\nThe first night following the murder, Beauchamp stayed at the home of a relative in Bloomfield. The next day, he traveled to Bardstown, where he spent the night. He lodged with his brother-in-law in Bowling Green on the night of November 9 before returning to his home in Glasgow on November 10. He and Anna had planned to flee to Missouri, but before nightfall, a posse had arrived from Frankfort to arrest him.\n\nHe was taken to Frankfort and tried before an examining court, but Commonwealth's Attorney Charles S. Bibb said that he had not yet collected enough evidence to detain him. Beauchamp was released, but agreed to stay in Frankfort for ten days to allow the court to finish its investigation. During this time, Beauchamp wrote letters to John J. Crittenden and George M. Bibb requesting their legal aid in the matter. Neither letter was answered. Meanwhile, Beauchamp's uncle, a state senator, gathered a defense team that included former U.S. Senator John Pope.\n\nDuring the investigation, unsuccessful attempts were made to match a knife taken from Beauchamp upon his arrest to the type of wound observed on Sharp's body. Efforts to match a footprint found near Sharp's house to Beauchamp were similarly unsuccessful. The posse that arrested Beauchamp had taken a bloody handkerchief from the crime scene, but had lost it on the trip back to Frankfort after the arrest. The best evidence presented by the prosecution was the testimony of Sharp's wife Eliza that she heard the killer's voice and that it was distinctly high-pitched. When given the opportunity to hear Beauchamp's voice, she identified it as that of the killer.\n\nWhen questioned, Patrick Darby testified that in 1824, Beauchamp had solicited his services in order to bring suit against Sharp for unspecified charges. During their ensuing conversations, Beauchamp had related the story of Sharp's abandonment of Anna Cooke and her child, swearing that he would kill him one day, even if he had to come to Frankfort and shoot him down in the street. The combined testimonies of Eliza Sharp and Patrick Darby were sufficient to persuade the city magistrates to hold Beauchamp for trial during the circuit court's next term, which began in March 1826.\n\nBeauchamp was indicted, and his trial began May 8, 1826. Beauchamp pleaded not guilty, but never testified during the trial. Captain Lowe was called to repeat the story he had originally related to Patrick Darby regarding Beauchamp's threats to kill Sharp. He further testified that Beauchamp returned home following the murder waving a red flag and declaring that he had \"gained the victory.\" He also turned over to the court a letter from the Beauchamps regarding the murder. In the letter, Beauchamp maintained his innocence, but told Lowe that his enemies were plotting against him and asked him to testify in his behalf. The letter gave Lowe several talking points to mention if called to testify, some true and some otherwise.\nEliza Sharp repeated her assertion that the murderer's voice was that of Beauchamp. Joel Scott, the warden who gave Beauchamp lodging the night of the murder, testified that he heard Beauchamp leave during the night and return later that night. He also mentioned that Beauchamp was extremely inquisitive about the crime upon being told of it the next morning. The most extensive testimony came from Darby, who recounted his 1824 meeting with Beauchamp. According to Darby, Beauchamp claimed that Sharp offered him and Anna $1,000, a slave girl, and of land if they would leave him alone. Sharp later reneged on the offer.\n\nSome witnesses maintained that the killer's claim to be John A. Covington was telling. They said that both Sharp and Beauchamp had been acquainted with John W. Covington, and that Beauchamp often mistakenly called him John A. Covington. Other witnesses told of threats they had heard Beauchamp make against Sharp.\n\nBeauchamp's defense team attempted to discredit Patrick Darby by stressing his association with the Old Court and suggesting the murder was politically motivated. They also presented witnesses who testified that they knew of no hostility between Beauchamp and Sharp, and questioned whether Darby and Beauchamp's 1824 meeting ever occurred.\n\nDuring closing arguments, defense counsel John Pope attempted to discredit Darby; the latter reacted by assaulting one of Pope's co-counselors with a cane. The trial lasted thirteen days, and despite the absence of any physical evidence, including a murder weapon, the jury returned a guilty verdict after only an hour of deliberation on May 19. Beauchamp was sentenced to be executed by hanging on June 16, 1826.\n\nDuring the trial, Anna Beauchamp appealed to John Waring for help on her husband's behalf. She also tried to entice John Lowe to commit perjury and testify on her husband's behalf. Both appeals were denied. On May 20, Anna was examined by two justices of the peace on suspicion of being an accessory to the murder, but was acquitted due to lack of evidence. At her request, Anna was permitted to stay in the cell with Beauchamp .\n\nPope's request to have the verdict overturned was denied, but the judge granted Beauchamp a stay of execution until July 7 to allow him to produce a written justification of his actions. In it, Beauchamp said he had killed Sharp to defend Anna's honor. Beauchamp had hoped to publish his work before his execution, but the libelous charges it contained – that prosecution witnesses committed perjury and bribery to see him convicted – delayed its publication.\n\nThe Beauchamps were accused of trying to bribe a guard to let them escape, but this effort failed. They also tried to get a letter to Senator Beauchamp, asking for his help in escaping. A final plea to Governor Desha for another stay of execution was denied on July 5. Later that day, the couple attempted a double suicide by taking large doses of laudanum, but both survived.\nOn July 7, the morning of Beauchamp's scheduled execution, Anna requested that the guard allow her privacy while she dressed. Anna tried another overdose on laudanum, but was unable to keep it down. She had smuggled a knife into the cell, and the couple attempted another double suicide by stabbing themselves with it. When they were discovered, Anna was taken to the jailer's home and tended to by doctors.\n\nWeakened by his own wounds, Beauchamp was loaded on a cart to be taken to the gallows and hanged before he bled to death. He insisted on seeing his wife before being executed, but doctors told him she was not severely injured and would recover. Beauchamp protested that not being allowed to see his wife was cruel, and the guards consented to take him to her. Upon arriving, he was angered to see that the doctors had lied to him; Anna was too weak even to speak to him. He remained with her until he could no longer feel her pulse. He kissed her lifeless lips and declared \"For you I lived — for you I die.\"\n\nOn his way to the gallows, Beauchamp asked to see Patrick Darby, who was among the assembled spectators. Beauchamp smiled and offered his hand, but Darby declined the gesture. Beauchamp publicly denied that Darby had any involvement with the murder, but accused Darby of having lied about the 1824 meeting. Darby denied this accusation of perjury and tried to engage Beauchamp in a discussion about it, hoping he would retract the charge, but the prisoner ordered the cart driver to continue to the gallows.\n\nAt the gallows, Beauchamp assured the assembled clergy that he had a salvation experience on July 6. Too weak to stand, he was held upright by two men while the noose was tied around his neck. At Beauchamp's request, the Twenty-Second Regiment musicians played \"Bonaparte's Retreat from Moscow\" while 5,000 spectators watched his execution. It was the first legal hanging in Kentucky's history. Beauchamp's father requested the bodies of his son and daughter-in-law for burial. The two bodies were placed in an embrace in a single coffin, as they had requested. They were buried in Maple Grove Cemetery in Bloomfield, Kentucky. The couple's tombstone was engraved with a poem written by Anna Beauchamp.\n\nBeauchamp's confession was published in 1826, the same year as \"The Letters of Ann Cook\" – the authorship of which is disputed. J. G. Dana and R. S. Thomas also published an edited transcript of Beauchamp's trial. The following year, Sharp's brother, Dr. Leander Sharp, wrote \"Vindication of the character of the late Col. Solomon P. Sharp\" to defend Sharp from the charges made in Beauchamp's confession. Patrick Darby threatened to sue Dr. Sharp if the work were published. John Waring threatened Dr. Sharp's life if he published \"Vindication\". All copies of the work were left in the Sharps' home in Frankfort, where they were discovered many years later during a remodel.\n\nThough many regarded Sharp's murder as an honor killing, some New Court partisans charged that Beauchamp had been incited to violence by members of the Old Court party, specifically Patrick Darby. Sharp was thought to be the minority party's choice for Speaker of the House for the 1826 session. By enticing Beauchamp to murder Sharp, the Old Court could remove a political enemy. Sharp's widow Eliza appeared to believe this notion. In an 1826 letter in the \"New Court Argus of Western America\", she referred to Darby as \"the chief instigator of the foul murder which has deprived me of all my heart held most dear on earth\".\n\nSome Old Court partisans claimed that Governor Desha had offered Beauchamp a pardon if he would implicate Darby and Achilles Sneed, clerk of the Old Court, in his confession. Shortly before his execution, Beauchamp was heard to say he had \"been New Court long enough, and would die an Old Court man.\" Beauchamp had steadfastly identified with the Old Court, and his claim seems to imply that he had at least considered colluding with the New Court powers to secure his pardon. Such a deal is explicitly mentioned in one version of Beauchamp's \"Confession\". Beauchamp ultimately rejected the deal for fear that he would be double-crossed by the New Court, leaving him imprisoned and deprived of the chivalrous motive for his actions.\n\nDarby denied involvement with the murder, claiming that New Court partisans such as Francis P. Blair and Amos Kendall were seeking to defame him. He also countered that Eliza Sharp's letter to the \"New Court Argus\" was written by New Court supporters, including Kendall, the newspaper's editor. The claims and counterclaims between the two sides reached such an extreme that an 1826 letter in the \"New Court Argus\" suggested that New Court supporters had instigated Sharp's murder in order to blame Old Court partisans and affix a stigma to them.\n\nDarby eventually brought suit for libel against Kendall and Eliza Sharp, as well as Senator Beauchamp and Sharp's brother Leander. Numerous delays and changes of venue prevented any of the suits from ever going to trial. Darby died in December 1829.\n\nThe Beauchamp–Sharp Tragedy inspired fictional works, notably Edgar Allan Poe's unfinished play \"Politian\" and Robert Penn Warren's \"World Enough and Time\". William Gilmore Simms wrote three works based on the Sharp's murder and aftermath: \"Beauchampe: or The Kentucky Tragedy, A Tale of Passion\", \"Charlemont\", and \"Beauchampe: A Sequel to Charlemonte\". \"Greyslaer: A Romance of the Mohawk\" by Charles Fenno Hoffman, \"Octavia Bragaldi\" by Charlotte Barnes, \"Sybil\" by John Savage, and \"Conrad and Eudora; or, The Death of Alonzo: A Tragedy\" and \"Leoni, The Orphan of Venice\" both by Thomas Holley Chivers, all draw to some degree on the events that surround Sharp's murder.\n\n\nSources variously give the name as Anna Cooke, Anna Cook, Ann Cooke, and Ann Cook.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11702553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11702553", "title": "Capital punishment in the Isle of Man", "text": "Capital punishment in the Isle of Man\n\nCapital punishment in the Isle of Man was formally abolished in 1993. The Isle of Man is a British Crown Dependency, but not part of the United Kingdom (which had effectively abolished capital punishment in 1965).\n\nThe last person to be actually hanged on the Isle of Man was John Kewish, at Castletown in 1872. No execution had taken place on the island during the three decades before that. Capital punishment was not abolished by Tynwald (the island's parliament) until 1993. Many people were sentenced to death (for murder and various other crimes) on the Isle of Man between 1873 and 1992.\n\nThe last person to be sentenced to death on the Isle of Man (and anywhere in the British Isles) was Anthony Robin Denys Teare, at the Court of General Gaol Delivery in Douglas, in 1992. The case was heard before the Second Deemster of the Isle of Man, Henry Callow. Deemster Callow thus became the last judge in the British Isles to pass a death sentence (but chose not to wear a black cap whilst doing so). Following sentencing, Teare engaged a new lawyer, Louise Byrne, who immediately took the case to the appeal court, where the conviction was quashed. A retrial was ordered, and a search for new evidence was made.\n\nAt the second trial Teare was represented by Peter Thornton QC, an English counsel. William Kelly, a prison healthcare officer at the Isle of Man Prison, gave evidence that Teare had told him on a number of occasions of how he had murdered the victim, Corinne Bentley. It was on his evidence alone that Teare was convicted of murder for the second time and entered the history books as the last man in the British Isles to be sentenced to death and the first in the Isle of Man to be sentenced to life imprisonment (all previous life sentences had been commuted from death sentences). Corinne's brother was in court as Teare, head bowed, received a minimum of twelve years imprisonment. He was sent to HMP Wakefield in Yorkshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "46669670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46669670", "title": "Carl Sagan Institute", "text": "Carl Sagan Institute\n\nThe Carl Sagan Institute: Pale Blue Dot and Beyond was founded in 2014 at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York to further the search for habitable planets and moons in and outside the Solar System. It is focused on the characterization of exoplanets and the instruments to search for signs of life in the universe. The founder and current director of the institute is astronomer Lisa Kaltenegger.\n\nThe Institute, inaugurated in 2014 and renamed on 9 May 2015, collaborates with international institutions on fields as astrophysics, engineering, earth and atmospheric science, geology and biology with the goal of taking an interdisciplinary approach to the search for life elsewhere in the universe and of the origin of life on Earth.\n\nCarl Sagan was a faculty member at Cornell University beginning in 1968. He was the David Duncan Professor of Astronomy and Space Sciences and director of the Laboratory for Planetary Studies there until his death in 1996.\n\nThe main goal of the Carl Sagan Institute is to model atmospheric spectral signatures including biosignatures of known and hypothetical planets and moons to explore whether they could be habitable and how they could be detected. Their research focuses on exoplanets and moons orbiting in the habitable zone around their host stars. The atmospheric characterization of such worlds would allow to potentially detect the first habitable exoplanet. A team member has already produced a \"color catalog\" that could help scientists look for signs of life on exoplanets.\n\nTeam scientists used 137 different microorganism species, including extremophiles that were isolated from Earth's most extreme environments, and cataloged how each life form uniquely reflects sunlight in the visible and near-infrared to the short-wavelength infrared (0.35–2.5 µm) portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. This database of individual 'reflection fingerprints' (spectrum) might be used by astronomers as potential biosignatures to find large colonies of microscopic life on distant exoplanets. A combination of organisms would produce a mixed spectrum, also cataloged, of light bouncing off the planet. The method will also be applied to spot vegetation. The goal of the catalog is to provide astronomers with a baseline comparison to help scientists interpret the data that will come back from telescopes like WFIRST and E-ELT.\n\n"}
{"id": "25531875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25531875", "title": "Computational journalism", "text": "Computational journalism\n\nComputational Journalism can be defined as the application of computation to the activities of journalism such as information gathering, organization, sensemaking, communication and dissemination of news information, while upholding values of journalism such as accuracy and verifiability. The field draws on technical aspects of computer science including artificial intelligence, content analysis (NLP, vision, audition), visualization, personalization and recommender systems as well as aspects of social computing and information science.\n\nThe field emerged at Georgia Institute of Technology in 2006 where a course in the subject was taught by professor Irfan Essa. In February 2008 Georgia Tech hosted a Symposium on Computation and Journalism which convened several hundred computing researchers and journalists in Atlanta, GA. In July 2009, The Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (CASBS) at Stanford University hosted a workshop to push the field forward.\n\nSince 2012, Columbia Journalism School has offered a course called Frontiers of Computational Journalism for the students enrolled in their dual degree in CS and journalism. The course covers many computer science topics from the perspective of journalism, including document vector space representation, algorithmic and social story selection (recommendation algorithms), language topic models, information visualization, knowledge representation and reasoning, social network analysis, quantitative and qualitative inference, and information security. The Knight Foundation awarded $3,000,000 to Columbia University's Tow Center to continue its computational journalism program.\n\nSyracuse University launched a masters in computational journalism in 2015, with a mission of preparing students \"to be data journalists, able to work with big data sets to organize and communicate the compelling and important news stories that might be hidden in the numbers.\"\n\nStanford University launched a Computational Journalism Lab in 2015, as well as a course titled, Computational Journalism.\n\nIn 2017, the Associated Press published a guide for newsrooms to deploy artificial intelligence and computational methods, a report developed by media strategist Francesco Marconi.\n\nIn February 2013, the Georgia Institute of Technology held the Computational Journalism Symposium once again in Atlanta, GA.\n\nIn 2014 and 2015, Columbia University hosted the Computation + Journalism Symposium.\n\nIn 2016, Stanford University hosted the Computation + Journalism Symposium.\n\nThe Google News Lab has sponsored \"Computational Journalism Research Awards\" within the United States and in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27959449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27959449", "title": "César Cuenca", "text": "César Cuenca\n\nCésar René Cuenca (born January 18, 1981) is an Argentine professional boxer and a former IBF super lightweight champion.\n\nOn March 20, 2009 Cuenca won a twelve-round Unanimous Decision against undefeated contender Alex de Jesús.\n\nOn May 3, 2014 Cesar defeated Albert Mensah to become the mandatory challenger for the IBF Junior Welterweight belt, held by American Lamont Peterson.\n\nOn July 18, 2015 he defeated Ik Yang in Macau by unanimous decision, in a bout he dominated and dropped his opponent, despite being knocked down himself. In the process, he won the vacant IBF light welterweight world championship, after a thirteen-year career, that spanned 49 fights prior, including two 'no contests'.\n\nCuenca lost his world title in his very next fight on November 4, 2015 when he faced Eduard Troyanovsky in Kazan, Russia. Cuenca, who was 48-0 at the time of the fight, was unable to get in range for the majority of the boxing match. Troyanovsky had re-hydrated much more than Cuenca and he seemed bigger in the ring, he used his size advantage well. After five rounds Cuenca had won just one, in a close fight, his left eye was cut open. In the sixth round, Troyanovsky landed a hard uppercut and Cuenca grabbed him at the waist, Troyanovsky leaned on the Argentine and he tumbled down, then as Troyanovsky was moving away it is possible that his foot hit Cuenca in his right eye. Immediately afterwards the American referee asked Cuenca if he could continue fighting, to which Cuenca told him in Spanish that his right eye was injured from the tumble and he needed time to recover, but the referee (who could not understand Spanish) asked him again more sternly and Cuenca repeated himself, gesturing to his right eye. The referee then waved off the fight, to the displeasure of Cuenca and his corner.\n"}
{"id": "35947101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35947101", "title": "Death and the Mother", "text": "Death and the Mother\n\nDeath and the Mother (Danish: Døden og moderen) is a sculpture created by the Danish sculptor Niels Hansen Jacobsen. Inspired by Hans Christian Andersen's tale \"The Story of a Mother\", it depicts a Grim Reaper figure, in a dynamic pose, carrying a scythe, striding over a mother with a dead child crouching on the ground. The original plaster model is in the holdings of the Danish National Gallery while two bronze castings are located outside St. Peter's Church in Copenhagen and Vejen Art Museum.\n\nHansen Jacobsen created the original plaster model in 1892, shortly after he had settled in Paris where he lived until 1901. His newly wedded wife Gabriela served as model for the mother crouching on the ground. The literary inspiration for the work was Hans Christian Andersen's tale \"The Story of a Mother\". When the sculpture was exhibited at Charlottenborg in 1894, the catalogue contained a slightly modified version of the last sentence of the tale: \"And she lowered her head into her lap. And Death took her child into the Unknown Lands\".\n\nThe model was first exhibited at the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts in Paris where it was well received. The next year it was exhibited at Charlottenborg and in 1899 Hansen Jacobsen gave the model to the Danish National Gallery.\n\nAfter his return to Denmark in 1901, Hansen Jacobsen received a commission from Carl Jacobsen's Albertina Foundation for a bronze cast which was installed in front of Church of the Holy Ghost in Copenhagen. In 1966 it had to be moved because the ward found it \"profoundly depressing\" and it was instead placed outside St. Peter's Church.\n\nAnother cast was later placed outside Vejen Art Museum which had been opened to house his oeuvre.\n\nThe portrayal of Death as the Grim Reaper was frequently seen in other artworks of the time, such as in paintings by Jean-François Millet and the Danish painter L. A. Ring.\n\n"}
{"id": "54866888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54866888", "title": "Death of Emilie Meng", "text": "Death of Emilie Meng\n\nEmilie Anine Skovgaard Meng (31 July 1998 – ), a 17-year-old Danish girl, disappeared in Korsør in the early hours of 10 July 2016. Five months later, her body was found in Køge Municipality. The case received major media attention and an investigation of both police and civilians.\n\nMeng was last seen leaving Korsør train station after a night out in Slagelse with her friends at 4 a.m. on 10 July 2016. Many volunteers helped the police to look for Meng. Several tips led to three suspects, including a 33-year-old truck driver and a 67-year-old, who got his house searched five times, but they had nothing to do with the case. After four months the police had worked with three theories.\n\nMeng's body was found in a lake at Regnemarks Bakke near Borup on 24 December 2016. Two days later, a memorial ceremony was held at Korsør Station, where several hundred people were present.\n\nThe case remains unsolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "32965083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32965083", "title": "Death of Rebecca Zahau", "text": "Death of Rebecca Zahau\n\nRebecca Mawii Zahau, 32, was discovered dead on July 13, 2011, at the Spreckels Mansion in Coronado, California, where she lived with her millionaire boyfriend, Medicis Pharmaceutical CEO Jonah Shacknai. Zahau's death occurred two days after Shacknai's 6-year-old son Max took a fatal fall from a staircase banister in the same beachfront mansion. Zahau was the only adult present at the time of the child's fall. San Diego Sheriff Bill Gore announced on September 2, 2011, that Zahau's death was a suicide while the younger Shacknai's was an accident, and that neither was the result of foul play. Members of Zahau's family disputed the finding that her death was suicide and filed a $10 million wrongful death lawsuit against Jonah Shacknai's brother Adam. The jury in that civil trial found Adam Shacknai responsible for Zahau's death and granted her family a $5 million judgment for loss of love and companionship as well as an additional $167,000 for the loss of financial support Zahau would have provided her mother and siblings.\n\nZahau (born March 15, 1979), also known as Rebecca Nalepa, was of Burmese immigrant origin. She was born in Falam, Chin State, a town in the Chin Hills in northwestern Burma, to her father Khua Hnin Thang and mother Zung Tin Par (also known as Pari). She came from a family of Chin ethnicity and was raised as a Protestant. She moved to Nepal and then Germany. She moved to the United States about 10 years before her death. Her parents and most family members live in Saint Joseph, Missouri. She had an older sister, Mary Zahau-Loehner, a younger sister, Snowem Horwath, who lives in Germany, and a teenage sister, Xena Zahau, among other siblings. In August 2009, Zahau was arrested for shoplifting under the name Rebecca Nalepa. She pleaded guilty to stealing $1,000 worth of jewels from Macy's in Phoenix, Arizona. In 2002, she married then-36-year-old nursing student Neil Nalepa of Scottsdale, Arizona; they divorced in February 2011. She began dating Shacknai in 2008, while still married to Nalepa. She worked as an ophthalmic technician until quitting in December 2010.\n\nOn July 11, 2011, Zahau and Max Shacknai were at the Spreckels Beach House along with Zahau's teenage sister Xena when Shacknai’s son Max fell over a second-floor banister. Investigators speculate he may have tripped over a ball or the dog. He fell face-first, suffering injuries to his spinal cord and facial bones, the former of which affected his heart rate and breathing. Zahau said she was in the bathroom at the time; she found Max moments later, and her younger sister called 911. Max was not breathing and unresponsive, and was taken to Rady Children's Hospital. Max died on July 16 due to brain damage caused by oxygen deprivation resulting from his injuries.\n\nOn July 26, investigators ruled the boy’s death as an accident. However, a trauma doctor who examined Max prior to his death and autopsy stated to police that he did not believe Max's visible injuries from his fall were consistent with the cardiac arrest and brain swelling experienced by him, and suggested that Max may have suffocated prior to his fall.\n\nOn July 12, the day before her death, Zahau went to the airport to drop off her 13-year-old sister for her flight back to Missouri, and then picked up her boyfriend's brother, Adam Shacknai, who had just arrived on a flight from Memphis. Zahau and Adam Shacknai ate dinner with Jonah Shacknai and his friend Howard that evening, and then returned to the beach house. Adam Shacknai stayed at the house that night. There were reports of loud music coming from the house that evening. Jonah Shacknai was supposedly keeping a vigil at Max's bedside with Max's mother Dina Romano; he would leave the hospital to recuperate at a nearby Ronald McDonald House. Adam Shacknai stated that he found Zahau nude, hanging from a balcony, with her wrists and ankles bound, hands behind her back, at roughly 6:45 AM on the morning of July 13. He called 911 at 6:48 AM, and then sent a text message to his brother to inform him of the news. He cut the body down prior to police's arrival.\n\nZahau was gagged with a blue, long sleeve T-shirt wrapped around her head with the sleeves double knotted and stuffed into her mouth. There was also what appeared to be tape residue on her legs. Medics attempted to revive her, but pronounced her dead at the scene. The police initiated forensic and toxicology testing on her body as part of an autopsy to determine the cause of death. She was buried at St. Joseph's Memorial Park in St. Joseph, Missouri on July 23. Speculations of foul play began early on in the case; however, investigators were unable to find any other DNA at the scene besides Zahau's. On September 2, the San Diego County Sheriff's Department formally announced their finding that Zahau committed suicide.\n\nZahau's autopsy results would reveal four instances of head trauma. Investigators and outside commentators expressed various theories regarding the head injuries. San Diego Medical Examiner Jonathan Lucas stated that \"because there was evidence that she went over the balcony in a non-vertical position, she may have struck her head on the balcony on the way down.\" Werner Spitz, an expert witness who testified during the trial of Casey Anthony, said it was a possibility, stating, \"When the body first dropped, she doesn't necessarily jump to her death, so she would drop directly downward and she could easily hit against the side of the structure from which she is hanging.\" However, he noted that the case was not \"cut-and-dried\" and that to draw stronger conclusions he would have preferred to see what the body looked like before the wrist bindings were removed. Forensic consultant and doctor of criminal psychology Maurice Godwin expressed doubt, stating, \"The chances of bumping into the railing, going over the balcony and hitting your head four times is highly unlikely.\" \n\nA second autopsy was conducted by famed pathologist Dr. Cyril Wecht at the family's request. He testified that he believed fractures in Zahau’s throat were caused by manual strangulation, not by suicidal hanging. He further stated that he thought \"Rebecca Zahau’s death was a homicide.” In addition, other inaccuracies have been found with the Sheriff's department investigation, including evidence that may show that Rebecca was sexually assaulted before her death.\n\nFamily members expressed suspicions that Zahau's hands and feet were bound. In an interview about a week after the incident, San Diego county sheriff Roy Frank stated, \"There are documentations of incidents throughout the country where people have secured their feet and hands as well to commit suicide,\" to prevent themselves from changing their minds. Police re-enacted the scenario in an effort to determine whether it would have been possible for Zahau to bind herself in that fashion, and showed a video demonstration in which a woman wrapped a rope around her hands several times in front of her, slipped one hand out of the binding, then placed her hands behind her back, rebound them, and tightened the bindings with the aid of a string similar to the one which police found in Zahau's hands.\n\nA black message had been painted on the door of the room leading to the balcony below where police found Zahau's body; according to Zahau's ex-husband Nalepa, it read \"She saved him, can he save her.\" but officials declined to confirm this. In media comments, Sheriff Gore only stated that it was \"not a clear suicide note\"; however, investigators took it as further evidence of suicide. Zahau liked to paint as a hobby and had signed her paintings in the past; her siblings contended that the message did not match her handwriting. Nalepa also stated the note \"did not appear to be something [Zahau] would have written.\"\n\nAs part of their investigation, police served Verizon and AT&T with search warrants to obtain cell phone billing records, and took Zahau's Samsung Focus cell phone as evidence. According to Zahau's AT&T cell phone billing records, from roughly 8 p.m. until 10 p.m., Zahau talked and texted with her older sister Mary Zahau-Loehner, who confirmed that Xena had arrived home safely. At 10:48 p.m., Zahau received a text from Nina Romano, the twin sister of Shacknai's ex-wife Dina Romano. Nina Romano stated that she wanted to stop by the house and speak with Zahau about Max's accident. Zahau did not reply to that message. Police said she checked her voice-mail a few hours later, at 12:50 a.m. on July 13, and listened to a message. Billing records do not show who left that message. Police stated it was a message regarding the worsening of Max's condition, but declined to confirm at that time who left the message. Mary Zahau-Loehner stated that police told her it was from Jonah Shacknai. The message was deleted, meaning that police and Zahau's family never heard the contents of the message.\n\nBecause of evidence management concerns, San Diego County Sheriff's Department investigators initially did not attempt to power up the phone or operate it, fearing that they might overwrite evidence contained in its memory. Instead, they tried to determine whether forensic software was available which would allow them to examine that model of phone. On August 15, unable to identify any such technology, a detective turned on the phone and conducted a manual search of it, finding that the voice-mail message was not stored on the phone. They did not request that AT&T try to retrieve the deleted message from its servers. Later, on September 21, a homicide investigator with the department announced that they would be searching it again, using what they described as \"new technology\" to copy the phone's data for further investigation. Because Zahau's cell phone was a newer model that investigators were not familiar with, they had previously been unsure what software they could use to accomplish this task. In early October, investigators completed their second examination of the cell phone. They stated that they did not uncover any additional information and would soon return the phone to Zahau's family.\n\nThe deaths drew intense public and media scrutiny. On July 14, Medicis had its sharpest one-day decline in stock price since February. News of the death and investigation received international coverage in various countries including Brazil, New Zealand, Finland, Spain, and the United Kingdom throughout July and August. In early September, various \"Forbes\" writers, including true crime writer Cathy Scott and lawyer Victoria Pynchon, expressed doubts about the investigators' conclusions; Pynchon described the ruling as an \"embarrassing public blunder.\" \"The Daily Beast\" published a column by trial lawyer Roy Black, in which he criticized \"half-baked theories\" about Zahau's death, in particular stating the lack of DNA evidence: \"How could anyone do all this without leaving behind a scintilla of microscopic evidence? They would have to have been wearing a full rubber suit or some type of space suit and levitated over the scene.\" He called on the media and public to \"stop calling it murder.\" On September 19, it was reported that local Coronado author Kathleen McKenna would be writing a book on the case; McKenna expressed doubts that Zahau's death was a suicide. Recently, the civil case against Adam Shacknai has put the case back in the public eye. \n\nPeople close to Zahau expressed doubt that she would have committed suicide. Zahau's elder sister said in an interview that \"I still believe my sister didn't take her life\", and in a written statement on behalf of the family wrote that \"Rebecca valued her life and lived her life to its fullest. Rebecca loved God, her family and life.\" Her younger sister commented more strongly by e-mail, \"Becky did not commit suicide. My sister was murdered.\" Her former trainer also stated that \"She was always happy [and] always smiling when she came in. I didn't see a problem or anything like that.\" Family members disputed police characterizations of Zahau as depressed, describing her instead that as a happy person. Furthermore, they state that Zahau believed as a Christian that suicide was wrong. After the suicide ruling, Neil Nalepa was quoted as stating, \"I would not believe Rebecca would commit suicide. It’s out of character.\" However, Sheriff Bill Gore, who investigated the death, stated of the family's reluctance to accept the suicide ruling, \"We laid out the case extensively to them in Missouri to answer their questions, and it’s unfortunate she can't accept the results.\" On September 7, the family launched a website JusticeForRebecca.org seeking donations to fund their own investigation into Zahau's death. The site states: \"It was obvious that the Sheriff’s Department had worked too hard to paint this picture of suicide and they were not about to let the Zahaus ruin it.\" In late September, they continued to demand that the case be re-opened.\n\nOn September 20, Jonah Shacknai wrote a letter to California Attorney General Kamala Harris requesting a state review of the investigation. Shacknai himself did not doubt the findings of investigations, but said he hoped a review would bring \"confidence, comfort and resolution\" to others close to Zahau. However, chief assistant attorney general Dane Gillette replied the following day, stating that \"we must decline your invitation to review this investigation at this time\" On September 30, family members appeared on NBC \"Today\" and called for a complete independent investigation by the state Attorney General's office.\n\nZahau's family hired Seattle attorney Anne Bremner to represent them. Bremner expressed derision at the medical examiner's conclusions, stating, \"This would be the first case in the history of the world that a woman killed herself like this ... It's ridiculous on the face of it.\" Dan K. Webb of Winston & Strawn LLP, a lawyer for Shacknai, alleges that other statements of Bremner's imply that Shacknai used his wealth and profile to improperly influence the probe into Zahau's death. He sent a cease and desist letter to Bremner warning her that certain statements of hers constituted defamation, as well as being \"highly insensitive on a human level\" and contributing to \"the harsh and unkind glare of a national media frenzy.\" However, Jim Edwards of CBS BNET suggested it was unlikely that Shacknai would actually sue, as it would simply bring more publicity to the case; he expected that the situation effectively \"leaves the Zahau family to continue their claims unchallenged.\"\n\nShacknai also hired public relations firm Sitrick and Company to represent him the week after Zahau's death. In response to media inquiries, a Sitrick and Company employee stated that Shacknai had hired the firm to handle his large volume of incoming calls in the days after the deaths, to give him time to grieve and make arrangements for the funerals. Sitrick and Company executives later held discussions with journalists whom they believe had made errors in their reporting on the case.\nA San Diego California civil jury awarded $5 million in damages on April 4th 2018 to the family of Zahau, determining that the brother of Shacknai was liable for her death.\n"}
{"id": "46741862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46741862", "title": "Deaths of Christianne and Robert Shepherd", "text": "Deaths of Christianne and Robert Shepherd\n\nChristianne and Robert Shepherd (known as Christi and Bobby respectively) were a brother and sister from Horbury, West Yorkshire who died of carbon monoxide poisoning while on holiday in Corfu in October 2006. At the time of their deaths, Christi was seven years old and Bobby was six.\n\nThe cause of death was found to be a faulty gas boiler. Three people, including the manager of the hotel where they were staying, were found guilty of manslaughter by negligence following a criminal trial in Greece in 2010 and were each sentenced to seven years in prison. The jury at the inquest into Christi and Bobby's deaths, which was held at Wakefield Coroner's Court in 2015, returned a verdict of unlawful killing and concluded that travel group Thomas Cook had \"breached its duty of care\".\n\nIn October 2006, Christi and Bobby Shepherd went on a one-week half-term holiday to the resort of Gouvia on the Greek island of Corfu with their father, Neil Shepherd, and his girlfriend Ruth Beatson, for which he paid almost £2,000. After an initial problem in which the family was allocated a room in the main building of the Louis Corcyra Beach Hotel, they were admitted to a semi-detached two-bedroom bungalow in the hotel's grounds.\n\nForty-eight hours after arriving, Beatson and the children started to feel unwell, with Bobby stumbling and appearing dizzy. Christi became ill shortly after going to bed on 25 October and her father went to fetch a carrier bag for her to vomit into but he collapsed. At approximately 11 am the following morning, a chambermaid found the adults both unconscious and the two children dead. Both adults only discovered the news of the deaths when they regained consciousness in hospital some days later.\n\nA police investigation by West Yorkshire Police found that the holiday representative responsible for health and safety at the hotel had not received any specific training relating to it. It also identified failings in the hotel assessment process used by Thomas Cook holidays, which ignored ancillary buildings. The cause of death was identified as carbon monoxide poisoning caused by fumes which had seeped into the accommodation from a “decrepit” boiler situated in an outhouse directly adjacent to Bobby and Christi's bedroom. The police investigation also found that unrelated defects concerning balconies and fire doors had not been remedied two years after they had been reported to the hotel.\n\nNeil Shepherd and his girlfriend Ruth Beatson, together with the children's mother Sharon Wood and her husband Paul, campaigned in Corfu to secure a local police investigation and trial. The BBC’s Samantha Haines later reported in 2010: \"Their actions made them both well-known and not always popular with the locals […] BBC reporter Jenny Hill said the Corfu economy relied heavily on tourism and the publicity surrounding the case was ‘unwelcome’ on the island. But the family vowed to go back to Corfu again and again, until they could leave with what they said was ‘justice’ for the children.\"\n\nIn February 2010, the trial of two Thomas Cook employees and ten Greek nationals began at Corfu Town courthouse. All of the defendants faced charges of manslaughter by negligence; one was later discharged. The three trial judges heard evidence from Harry Rogers, a mechanical engineer, who said the installation of the ‘decrepit’ boiler responsible for the deaths was the worst he had seen in 50 years. He told the court that the leak had been caused by a wired-out gas valve, a bypassed thermostat, the lack of a flue and chimney, and a gap between the bungalow and the outhouse containing the boiler. Comparing it to a loaded gun, he said: \"You can play with a gun for so long and it may not go off, but in certain circumstances someone will get killed”.\n\nDuring the trial, the hotel staff, maintenance engineers and builders denied responsibility for the deaths, blaming each other through their lawyers.\n\nThe trial concluded in May 2010, with three of the defendants found guilty. They included the hotel's manager, Georgios Chrysikopoulos, the head of its technical department, Petros Stoyiannos, and its electrician, Christos Louvros. All three were sentenced to seven years imprisonment. A further defendant, Dimitrios Xidias, was sentenced to two years’ probation for breaching building regulations. However, in May 2015 it was reported that due to the Greek appeals process none had yet gone to prison.\n\nThe remaining defendants, including both Thomas Cook travel representatives, were cleared; the travel company was also cleared of any responsibility for the deaths of the children.\n\nFollowing the conclusion of the Greek trial, the parents of Christi and Bobby were refused legal aid from England and Wales to pay for their representation at the inquest into the deaths, on the grounds that lawyers are not usually required. In March 2014, the issue was raised by Labour MP Mary Creagh during Prime Minister's Questions in the House of Commons. The following month Shepherd and Wood met British Prime Minister David Cameron, the legal aid minister Shailesh Vara and Creagh, who had organised the meeting. In a statement afterwards, Vara said: \"This is a very tragic case in which two young children lost their lives and my deepest sympathies are with the family, with whom the prime minister and I recently met. Questions remain unanswered and I have therefore authorised legal aid for representation at the inquest to hopefully provide much-needed answers.\"\n\nShepherd welcomed the news, saying: \"We are now in a position to be able to concentrate on getting the full facts of Christi and Bobby's deaths out in the public without the added worry of cost.\" Wood said there was \"an overwhelming public interest for the lessons of our tragedy to be learned so that no other family suffers as we have\".\n\nMore than eight years after the children's deaths, a full inquest into the events surrounding them began at Wakefield Coroner's Court on 26 April 2015. Opening the inquest, West Yorkshire Coroner David Hinchliff said: \"The family of these children have waited a long, long time for this day to come\". It heard that the bungalow \"became available for this family to use because the previous occupants had become unwell and they had been detained in hospital for tests and treatment\". Heating engineer Harry Rogers told the inquest that the faulty boiler responsible for the children's deaths would have been shut down immediately if it had been inspected in the UK. Rogers told the jury that the most significant of its many failings was the lack of a flue to vent the fumes from the boiler room. He added that he had been told that this same defect applied to many of the other boilers at the hotel but that he had not been allowed to inspect them.\n\nWhen Rogers said that he had been told that Thomas Cook's position was that the hotel had told the tour company they had no gas appliances for the purposes of heating or water, the barrister acting for Thomas Cook, Nicholas Purnell QC, clarified to the jury that it was his client's position that it had been lied to. Asked by Leslie Thomas QC, the barrister acting for the children's family, whether it reasonable for Thomas Cook to accept such an assurance from the hotel without questioning it, Rogers replied: \"They’ve got a duty of care. If it’s not gas, how is it being heated?\"\n\nA second expert, Thomas Magner, described the installation work as having been “botched and bodged” and said that a safety cut-off device had been deliberately short-circuited to prevent it turning off. The short-circuiting appeared to have been carried out the day before the children died, in response to a complaint from another family about a lack of hot water in their bungalow.\n\nAt the inquest, a series of former and current Thomas Cook employees declined to answer questions about the events around the children's deaths. Manny Fontenla-Novoa, who was chief executive of the company's UK and Ireland operations at the time of the accident and subsequently chief executive of the Thomas Cook Group, was told by the coroner that he did not have to answer any questions that might incriminate him. When it was put to him by the barrister acting for the family, that \"Thomas Cook put profit before safety\" Fontenla-Novoa replied \"I decline to answer\"; he gave the same response to almost all of the questions he was asked.\n\nThomas Cook's former director of government and external affairs and director-general of the Federation of Tour Operators, Andy Cooper, told the inquest \"I don’t believe the duty of care of the tour operator is that they should be carrying out a full safety check\" and described the checks conducted as \"a basic audit\". The company's head of health and safety, Peter Welsh, told the inquest that he understood that the hotel's management had told Thomas Cook there were no gas-powered heaters on the site.\n\nAsked by the family's barrister: \"My clients would like me to put it to you this is an inquest into the deaths of two young children. This is an opportunity to assist. Would you like to take that opportunity?\" travel representative Nicola Jordison replied: \"I decline to answer\". She also declined to acknowledge that a statement she had made during the Greek trial was in fact hers. Jordison's husband David, also a Thomas Cook holiday representative, also declined to answer when the family's barrister asked him: \"You knew there was gas there, because you had been there for a whole season, didn't you?\" The company's health and safety manager, Clare Kenny, also declined to answer questions put to her.\n\nThe current Thomas Cook Group's chief executive officer Peter Fankhauser, told the inquest: \"I feel incredibly sorry for the family – incredibly sorry. But I don’t have to apologise\". He went on to explain, \"I feel so thoroughly, from the deepest of my heart, sorry, but there’s no need to apologise because there was no wrongdoing by Thomas Cook\". He said his company had a policy of avoiding gas-fired hot water appliances but that it had been lied to by the hotel, which had said that it had no gas supply.\n\nOn 13 May 2015, the inquest jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing. The jury also found that Thomas Cook had \"breached its duty of care\". Coroner David Hinchliff said that he would be making recommendations to the holiday industry.\n\nSpeaking after the inquest verdict, Christi and Bobby's mother said that she continued to blame Thomas Cook for the accident, saying: \"It's clear Thomas Cook should and could have identified that lethal boiler. There will never be true justice for the deaths of my two innocent children. [The verdict] has brought this tragedy to a respectful end. Rest in peace our beautiful angels.\" However, the company issued a statement in which it insisted that although it was \"shocked and deeply saddened by the tragic loss\", it was not at fault, citing the acquittal of its employees in the 2010 Greek trial.\n\nBBC North of England Correspondent Danny Savage noted that the Crown Prosecution Service had reviewed the earlier West Yorkshire Police investigation and decided that there was insufficient evidence to bring prosecutions in the UK. He said \"There's a strong possibility this will be the last time these events ever have such a high public profile. The parents of Bobby and Christi say they hope this is the last time they have to go through the painful details but, above all, they hope all the publicity will prevent this happening to another family.\"\n\nWriting in \"The Daily Telegraph\" in 2015 shortly after the conclusion of the inquest, Travel expert Nick Trend, said: \"The most significant difference, a Thomas Cook spokesman told me, is the use of third party experts to conduct hotel inspections, introduced in 2012\". He quoted the spokesman as adding, \"Instruction of dedicated third party experts addresses any concerns about training, about monitoring information, about the expertise of the inspectors and the insistence of inspectors of looking at things in addition to relying upon what they are told by hoteliers.\"\n\nOn 17 May 2015, the children's parents reacted angrily to news in that day's \"Mail on Sunday\" that Thomas Cook had received £3.5m in compensation from the hotel in respect of lost profits and legal expenses relating to the deaths – an amount they said was ten times more than they had received themselves following the deaths of Bobby and Christi. They also claimed that they had first seen a letter of apology addressed to them when it was shown to them by news reporters. In a statement, Shepherd and Wood said: \"We haven't had this so called letter of apology. It’s not an apology for their wrongdoing but a general offer of sympathy. It does not address the central issue that their Safety Management System failed and it does not apologise for that.\" Thomas Cook insisted the letter had been sent by chief executive Peter Fankhauser on Friday May 15.\n\nThe following day it was announced that Thomas Cook would be donating £1.5m – which it said was the remainder left after legal costs had been taken by its insurers - to charity. Group CEO Peter Fankhauser said: \"Thomas Cook has not in any way profited from our claim against the hotel owner. In late 2012, we brought a claim against the hotelier for breaching their contract to provide safe accommodation to our customers and to comply with all applicable laws, which was decided in our favour. Today I have made arrangements for the full amount - £1.5m - to be donated in full to Unicef, the world's leading children's organisation. I believe this is the right thing to do and I apologise to the family for all they have gone through.\"\n\nOn 19 May 2015, the family's MP Mary Creagh responded to the announcement of Thomas Cook's charitable donation, saying that the children's parents had not been consulted about it, and that relatives and friends have been giving donations to another charity in Bobby and Christi's memory. She said: \"Their feeling is that this once more is not about them, it’s about Thomas Cook\".\n\nA former managing director of Thomas Cook's international business and former chairman of the Association of British Travel Agents, John McEwan, told BBC Radio 4’s \"Today\" programme: \"I think they should have consulted the family. I think they should have actually had a discussion with the family about what would be best. I would have liked to have seen, for example, the family being involved in where should that money go, should it be used to set up a charity on behalf of the children which would perpetuate their memory? There should have been some offering of compassion, some recognition that this has been an appalling tragedy and some care exhibited for the family.\" In \"The Independent\" Joanna Bourke wrote: \"Nothing Thomas Cook could ever do would bring back the two children killed by carbon monoxide poisoning on a Greek holiday in 2006. But the firm’s handling of the case has been a lesson in how not to manage a crisis\".\n\nOn 20 May 2015, Fankhauser told the BBC he was \"deeply sorry\" for the deaths of Christi and Bobby, saying: \"It is clear that there are things that we as a company could have done better in the past nine years. In particular the way we conducted our relationship with the family and this is something that we are going to change\". He added that he took responsibility for the way the company had communicated and that he regretted saying Thomas Cook had done \"nothing wrong\" when giving evidence at the inquest hearing. \"The Guardian\" reported that Fankhauser had declined to say what he intended to do to help Bobby and Christi's family, quoting him as saying: \"I’m not going to communicate in public about what we are going to do. […] We want to help the family to move on and that is it. I don’t want to repeat the mistakes the company did in the past. My intention is to see how they can move forward with their lives. I’m sorry about what they have had to go through. I’m personally sorry as a father myself.\" Asked if he wanted to end the wall of silence which the children's father had accused his company of hiding behind Fankhauser replied, \"Yes\".\n\nThe next day, Fankhauser had a three-hour meeting with the children's parents. Afterwards it was announced that Thomas Cook was to make an undisclosed \"financial gesture of goodwill\" to them, and Fankhauser said: \"I am so grateful for the opportunity to meet and listen to Sharon Wood and Neil Shepherd. Having heard what they have had to say today, my heart breaks for them. This is a meeting which should have happened when I first took over as chief executive in November and frankly something Thomas Cook should have done nine years ago.\" The family said that they would be making donations to several charities. The travel company also agreed to demolish the bungalow where the children had died and to erect a playground in its place in their memory. It was later discovered that two of the hotel staff who had been convicted over the children's deaths at the Greek trial in 2010, electrician Christos Louvros and hotel manager Georgios Chrysikopoulos, had been found working at hotels used by Thomas Cook. The BBC reported that Fankhauser said he felt \"physically sick\" on learning this and that Chrysikopoulos had subsequently been sacked from his post in Crete. Thomas Cook announced that it had stopped sending holidaymakers to the hotel where the children had died and where Louvros was still employed.\n\nIn November 2015, the results of an independent review of Thomas Cook's crisis management procedures and the company's customer health and safety strategy were published. Written by Justin King, a former chief executive of UK supermarket chain Sainsbury's, the review's report was critical of the way that the company had dealt with the children's family, saying that its responses had been \"intermittent, sometimes ill-timed and often ill-judged. […] Decisions were often not taken in the thoughtful and caring way you would expect from a company such as Thomas Cook\". Amongst its recommendations, the review concluded that the company should significantly increase health and safety resources, provide greater information to customers and staff about carbon monoxide risks and safety, and create a confidential whistle-blowing mechanism for staff and contractors to raise any concerns about health and safety.\n\nThe company responded by saying that King's report made for \"uncomfortable reading in parts\" and that it aimed to implement its recommendations within 18 months. Chief executive Peter Fankhauser said the review would \"serve as a catalyst\" for the changes the company was already making, adding that, \"It took us nine years to correct the mistakes of the past and to do what everyone would have expected of us; treat the family with the respect and empathy they deserve. We had to learn from this tragedy and do things differently, and this remains our commitment\".\n\nAnalysing King's report, the BBC's business editor, Kamal Ahmed, said, \"In an era when there is considerable suspicion about the motivation of businesses, the ability of a company to react to a crisis in a way that reveals it to be run by human beings rather than faceless chief executives is of paramount importance. Every company chief executive should read Justin King's report. And reflect on now many of the problems he has identified are also true of the businesses they run\".\n\nIn 2007, Horbury Primary School, which the children had both attended, marked the anniversary of their deaths by opening a memorial garden. Head teacher John Wright said: \"The garden is a beautiful tribute to two children who added so much to the school and are remembered fondly by their friends and school employees\".\n"}
{"id": "1527556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1527556", "title": "Doug Dohring", "text": "Doug Dohring\n\nDoug Dohring is the founder and CEO of Age of Learning, Inc., the edtech company that created and runs ABCmouse.com Early Learning Academy which was created in 2016. He is also the former CEO of Neopets, Inc.\n\nDohring formed The Dohring Company in 1986, where he served as Chairman and CEO, with his wife originally serving as president. Customers for the company's market research services have included retail chains including Baskin-Robbins and House of Fabrics, and entertainment firms including Capitol Records, as well as automotive, financial services, and health care companies. However, automotive surveys comprised up to 80% of the firm's business in 1995. At that time, the company was ranked 55th on the \"Advertising Age\" list of the nation's largest market research firms. It was 92nd on the \"Los Angeles Business Journal\" 's 1995 List of fastest growing private companies in Los Angeles County.\n\nDohring formed Neopets, Inc. after being introduced to the Neopets.com site by a mutual friend upon its December, 1999 launch by two British college students, Adam Powell and Donna Williams. According to BusinessWeek, Dohring bought the site immediately thereafter, and in April, 2000, he brought in his first paying customers for a concept that he trademarked as \"immersive advertising\".\n\nAccording to a Harvard Business School case study, Neopets, Inc. had reached profitability four months after launching operations, \"largely due to the fact that it spends nothing for customer acquisition, relying strictly on word-of-mouth,\" and as of July 2001, the site was ranked #4 in \"stickiness\".\n\nTwo years after its creation, in December 2001, Neopets had attracted more than 20 million accounts, more than 80% of them under the age of 17. While the \"tech bubble\" was bursting and large percentages of new web sites were folding, Neopets was signing up 50,000 new accounts per day, with members spending an average of four hours or more per month on the site. Business Week cited Neopets as “one of the top three entertainment sites on the Web, according to Jupiter Media Metrix”.\n\nAdvertising Age listed Dohring and Neopets in their 2001 “Roster of Marketing 100s”, noting that in July 2001 the site was ranked the “stickiest” at-home web site by Nielsen/Net Ratings.\n\nBy 2002 Neopets had 24 million accounts, and people spending more time on the site than at major services such as America Online. It was cited by Stacey Herron at Jupiter Media Metrix as “one of the most usage-intensive sites on the Web.”\n\nDohring sold the Neopets site to Viacom's MTV Network in June 2005 for $160 million. At the time, approximately 140 million Neopets had been created, and Neopets ranked among the top 10 stickiest Web sites, with advertising making up about 60% of the company's revenues and a line of plush toys sold through Target Corporation and other stores.\n\nAfter the sale of Neopets to Viacom in 2005, Dohring founded Age of Learning, Inc., and launched ABCMouse.com Early Learning Academy, “designed to teach basic reading, math, science and other subjects to children between the ages of two and six,” according to The Wall Street Journal. In January 2017, Age of Learning expanded the ABCmouse curriculum through 2nd grade.\n\nUnlike Neopets, which relied on advertising, ABCmouse.com charges a monthly fee of $7.95 per month or $79.95 per year, and is free to individual teachers, libraries, Head Start programs, and other community organizations. Dohring assembed an education advisory board that collaborates on the design of the ABCmouse curriculum and includes Kimberly Oliver Burnim, National Teacher of the Year in 2006, and Kevin O’Donnell, creator of PBS series, “Liberty’s Kids”.\n\nIn 2016, Age of Learning launched ABCmouse for Schools, a solution aimed at school districts and groups rather than families or individual teachers. ABCmouse for Schools includes student management, professional development, curriculum alignment, and progress reporting tools in addition to the core ABCmouse curriculum.\n\nAge of Learning, a privately held company, was reported to have reached a $1 billion valuation based on $150 million in funding from Iconiq Capital in May 2016.\n\nDohring was also a principal shareholder in Speedyclick.com circa 1999-2001, which according to a December 2005 Wired Magazine article, \"he later sold for $50 million.\" The $50 million deal included $3 million in cash and $47 million in ShopNow stock, (later renamed as \"Network Commerce\", and deemed worthless in 2001).\n\nA California native, Dohring is the youngest son of a car dealer and a homemaker. He and his wife Laurie, both Scientologists, have been married since 1979. They have five children including two sets of identical twins and actor Jason Dohring, best known for his roles in the series \"Veronica Mars\" and \"Moonlight\".\n\n"}
{"id": "788601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788601", "title": "General Grievous", "text": "General Grievous\n\nGeneral Grievous is a fictional character and antagonist in the \"Star Wars\" franchise. He served as the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems' Droid Armies during the Clone Wars. He was trained in all lightsaber combat forms by the Sith Lord Count Dooku to rival the Jedi of the Galactic Republic. In Legends, Grievous was a Kaleesh warlord named Qymaen jai Sheelal, who suffered great injuries in a ship crash and was then rebuilt as a cyborg.\n\nThe character was introduced in 2004 in the animated series \"\", before making his live-action debut in the 2005 film \"\".\n\nGeneral Grievous was developed for \"Revenge of the Sith\" as a powerful new villain on the side of the Separatists. The initial instructions that director George Lucas gave the Art Department were very open-ended: \"a droid general\". From that vague direction, the artists developed a lot of explorations, some purely mechanical, some not, for Grievous' look. He was also created as a villain foreshadowing Anakin Skywalker's transformation into Darth Vader: the heavy breathing, the cyborg body and his seduction into an evil faction.\n\nThe initial design sketch for Grievous was refined and made into a -tall maquette sculpture. That was further refined when it was made into a realistic computer-generated model by Industrial Light & Magic. At the time, this was one of the most complicated models ever created by ILM, with many parts of differing physical qualities. Grievous is completely computer-generated imagery in the movie. On set, Duncan Young read the lines off-screen while Kyle Rowling wore a bluescreen or a greenscreen suit to act out the fights with Obi-Wan Kenobi.\n\nAlso notable are the numerous contradictions between the expanded universe and both TV series. Grievous is depicted as having four fingers per arm in the \"Star Wars: The Clone Wars\" series whereas \"Star Wars: Clone Wars\" has the general depicted as having five. \"Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith\" and most other comics depicted him as having six fingers per arm. The original \"Clone Wars\" incarnation was fast, acrobatic and powerful but not as often in command when compared to the more recent \"The Clone Wars\" incarnation of the character. Furthermore, his asthmatic cough and hunchbacked stance are already present, despite having not gained them prior to his confrontation with Mace Windu. The general's back story has also been changed: supervising director Dave Filoni stated that Grievous opted for surgery in order to gain abilities that would allow him to rival a Jedi. This is reinforced by season one's tenth episode \"Lair of Grievous\" which suggested the general's transformation into a cyborg was a gradual process.\n\nComparisons have been drawn between the character's appearance and Jacob Epstein's sculpture \"Rock Drill\".\n\nGeneral Grievous' asthmatic cough in \"Revenge of the Sith\" was intended to emphasize his organic nature as well as the flaws of having cyborg prosthetics. The Separatist Leader does, in fact, have a severe case of asthma. Grievous had previously appeared in \"Clone Wars\" before many of his personality traits had been finalized. To reconcile the differences between the two presentations, Mace Windu uses the Force to crush Grievous' chest panel towards the end of the show's third season (Volume Two) as the general makes a desperate escape with Palpatine. Some of the audio effects for the coughing were taken from Lucas himself, who had had bronchitis during principal photography.\n\nGeneral Grievous has been voiced by four actors. In the \"\" animated series, the character was voiced by John DiMaggio for Season Two's finale episode and by Richard McGonagle for Season Three. The character was voiced by Matthew Wood in the feature film \"\", the animated series \"\" and most of the video game appearances. David W. Collins voiced the character, albeit uncredited, in \"\" and \"\".\n\nGary Oldman (a friend of producer Rick McCallum) agreed to submit a voice audition but his involvement never went beyond that. Several months later, actor John Rhys-Davies was widely reported to be the character's voice but this was revealed to be a prank.\n\nIn \"\", General Grievous holds Supreme Chancellor Palpatine hostage aboard his flagship, the \"Invisible Hand\". When the Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker launch a rescue operation, the latter kills Separatist Head of State Count Dooku. Grievous traps the fleeing Jedi and the Chancellor in a ray shield, and has them brought along with R2-D2 to the ship's bridge. He confiscates Kenobi and Skywalker's lightsabers, cackling that he will add them to his vast collection. When R2-D2 creates a distraction, Obi-Wan and Anakin use the Force to retrieve their lightsabers and free themselves. A short battle ensues with the Jedi overcoming Grievous's MagnaGuards and Battle droids before turning their attention to the General himself. Grievous escapes by using the electrostaff of a fallen MagnaGuard to shatter the bridge's glass and create a vacuum that pulls everything out towards space. He subsequently fires a grapple-hook to secure himself to the ship and scales its exterior en route to an escape pod. Grievous launches all of the other pods as well to prevent the Jedi and the Chancellor from escaping the doomed vessel.\n\nNow taking Dooku's place as both the political and military leader of the Separatists, Grievous heads to the planet of Utapau, where the council members of the Confederacy of Independent Systems are hiding; the Separatists have taken the residents of Utapau hostage. At his master Darth Sidious' (secretly Chancellor Palpatine) request, Grievous moves the council members to the volcanic planet Mustafar as the conclusion of the Clone Wars approaches.\n\nObi-Wan Kenobi later tracks Grievous to Utapau. When Kenobi destroys his MagnaGuards, Grievous duels the Jedi in single combat, splitting each of his mechanical arms in half to simultaneously use four lightsabers. The Republic's Clone troopers then arrive to engage Grievous' Droid Army. Obi-Wan disarms Grievous with the Force and pursues him when the general retreats on his wheelbike, fleeing to the hanger where his starfighter is located. The two engage in hand-to-hand combat, where Obi-Wan manages to rip open Grievous's chest plates, revealing the parts where his organs are located. Enraged, Grievous tosses Kenobi off the platform, easily overpowering him. Using the Force and control, Kenobi manipulates his position, and catches hold of his edge. As Grievous charges at him with his electrostaff, the Jedi uses the force to summon the general's blaster. Before Grievous can deliver the final blow, however, Obi-Wan uses the blaster and fires at General Grievous several times at his organs underneath his exoskeleton, which he incinerates. The cyborg then bursts into flames and dies.\n\nIn \"\", General Grievous's first public appearance is when he attacked several Jedi on Hypori. After killing Daakman Barrek, Grievous and his droids surrounded Tarr Seirr, Sha'a Gi, Aayla Secura, K'Kruhk, Ki-Adi-Mundi and Shaak Ti. After stating he would grant the Jedi a \"warrior's death\", Grievous battled the six Jedi all by himself, killing Seirr, and injuring Secura, Ti, and K'kruhk. He managed to possess three lightsabers (one in each hand and the third using his left foot) to fight Mundi. As they fought, lightsabers blazing, clone troopers arrived to save the surviving Jedi from Grievous, though they left K'kruhk thinking he was dead.\n\nSometime later, Grievous searched for Chancellor Palpatine on Coruscant and fought several Jedi that took Palpatine to a secret bunker aboard a maglev train. However, while the general's Magnaguards distracted the lead Jedi, Grievous reached the hardened bunker, killed two other Jedi and captured Palpatine. As Grievous was about to escape, Mace Windu force-crushed his chest plates, severely injuring him. Although many fans believed this to be the reason for his persisting cough heard in \"Revenge of the Sith\", Grievous was actually intended to have had the cough all along (evidenced by him having the cough from the beginning in the subsequent CGI series \"Star Wars: The Clone Wars\"). The confusion arose due to the writers of \"Star Wars: Clone Wars\" having to produce the series before all of Grievous's final characterizations had been nailed down.\n\nIn the first season of the computer-animated series \"\", Grievous is the commander of the huge Separatist warship \"Malevolence\" armed with a pair of heavy ion cannons. He also clashes with Obi-Wan Kenobi aboard the \"Malevolence\" for the first time when he chases him aboard the warship's railway system. During the ensuing lightsaber duel, Grievous nearly gets the better of Kenobi, but the Jedi Master makes his escape at the last moment. Meanwhile, Anakin secretly sabotages the \"Malevolence\" navigation computer, sending it crashing into a nearby moon. However, Grievous escapes on his starfighter and continues his campaign against the Republic. A few episodes later, Grievous discovers Anakin Skywalker and Padawan Ahsoka Tano infiltrating his secret listening post and seeks out to search for them. He then engages Ashoka and her squad of clone troopers, defeating all the troopers and then engaging in a cat and mouse game with Tano. However, Tano and Skywalker still manage to destroy his listening post. Aware of Grievous's recent string of failures, Count Dooku arranges a test for his cyborg henchman – in the form of Jedi Master Kit Fisto and Jedi Knight Nahdar Vebb. In Grievous's personal castle on the third moon of Vassek, the two Jedi and a squad of clone troopers ambush Grievous and cut off his legs. Once repaired, Grievous duels and kills Vebb. On the outskirts of Grievous's castle, the general climbs up from the ledge and unleashes four lightsabers on Fisto. Using the fog to his advantage, Fisto successfully cuts off one of Grievous's hands and reclaims Vebb's lightsaber. Armed with two lightsabers, Fisto gains the upper hand over Grievous to which the general calls in his Magnaguards and Fisto flees. When Grievous reports to Dooku, his master informs Grievous that there is room for improvement.\n\nDuring the second season, Grievous boards a Republic Cruiser with Jedi Master Eeth Koth on board. Grievous duels Koth and takes him prisoner. Kenobi, Skywalker and Jedi Master Adi Gallia attempt to rescue Koth and capture the cyborg general, resulting in a confrontation between Grievous and Kenobi over the planet Saleucami which Grievous loses. Though the Jedi succeed in rescuing Koth, Grievous, helped by his droids, escapes once again.\n\nIn the third season, Grievous, Asajj Ventress and their armies attack the clone factories on the planet Kamino. During the battle, Grievous clashes with Obi-Wan again. However, their duel ends in stalemate and Grievous flees the planet with Ventress. Later on, Grievous commands a sabotage mission using infiltrator droids on the Galactic Senate, resulting in a deregulation of the banks.\n\nDuring the fourth season, Grievous suffers a humiliating defeat when he attempts to invade Naboo. Jar Jar Binks (posing as Gungan Boss Lyonie) distracts Grievous in a series of negotiations long enough for the Gungan Army to shut down Grievous's invasion force. As Grievous pursues Jar Jar, he slaughters many Gungan Grand Army soldiers. At that moment, General Tarpals intervenes and engages Grievous in a duel. Although he is mortally wounded by the cyborg, Tarpals impales Grievous through his chest which allows the Gungan Army to bombard the wounded general with energized projectiles and capture him. However, he is freed in a prisoner exchange with Skywalker between Dooku and Padmé Amidala. Later, Grievous attacks Gallia's ship, engaging her in a lightsaber duel down a narrow hallway. The duel ends when Grievous kicks Gallia in the chest, sending her flying across the hallway. Grievous then captures Gallia. Shortly after, Gallia escapes Grievous's custody when a strike force led by Jedi Master Plo Koon boards his ship and frees the Jedi Master, prompting Grievous to flee once again. Grievous is later sent to the planet Dathomir under Dooku's orders to exterminate the Nightsisters. Immediately upon landing on the planet's surface, the general begins his rampage and his droid army turns Dathomir into a battlefield. However, Asajj Ventress turns the tide of the battle and fights her way to the general's shuttle where the cyborg emerges to confront her personally. As they duel, Grievous grows overconfident and begins to toy with Ventress until she surprises him by chopping off one of his arms and knocking him to the ground. Grievous then orders his troops to fire on Ventress, wounding her. As the general prepares to deliver the deathblow to his longtime rival, he is attacked by Nightsister zombies and is forced to fight them off while Ventress flees. Under new orders from Dooku, Grievous turns his attention to Nightsister leader Mother Talzin and slaughters his way to her fortress where she narrowly escapes from the general's grasp by teleporting away. Grievous is later seen on Serenno listening to Dooku's fears about Savage Opress.\n\nIn the fifth season's premiere episode, Grievous is mentioned by Hondo Ohnaka as having defeated Obi-Wan and won the battle for the system that Florrum is in. This battle is shown in the episode \"Bound for Rescue\" where Grievous attacks Obi-Wan's ship; the General slaughters a squadron of clones and duels Obi-Wan. Obi-Wan is no match for Grievous and is subsequently defeated, forcing him to abandon his ship. Later, Grievous goes to Florrum personally and announces that the system is under his control now, and that Dooku is having him punish Hondo for holding him for ransom. The droids destroy Hondo's stronghold and his belongings, and hold him prisoner, but Hondo is rescued when Ahsoka and a group of younglings free him and retreat off the planet. Grievous pursues them and fights Ahsoka. Although she has grown stronger since their last battle, Grievous still proves to be more than a match for her. The duel ends when Hondo picks up Ahsoka in the \"Slave I\" and takes off, leaving Grievous to stew in his anger. In the first episode of the droid arc \"Secret Weapons\", Grievous is mentioned in the opening credits, and the primary goal of the mission is to retrieve a module that will decode a transmission that Grievous made about an important Separatist attack.\n\nGrievous was to undergo a design change in the seventh season to look more like his design in \"Revenge of the Sith\". Though the series was cancelled before this could happen, the unfinished animations of the Crystal Crisis arc showed this design. In this arc, Grievous is sent by Dooku to purchase a giant kyber crystal on Utapau, and while Grievous at first obtains the crystal, it is lost when Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi destroy it by overloading its power.\n\nGrievous made his first appearance in the comics in a short story in \"\" called \"The Eyes of Revolution\". This story reveals that he was once Kaleesh general Qymaen jai Sheelal, a fierce warrior engaged in a brutal war with the rival planet Huk. Grievous has had many wives. One that he is currently married to is human Gravlyn. He boards a shuttle to take him to another battle, unaware that Dooku had planted an explosive device in it. He is mortally wounded in the resulting crash and what remains of his body is reconstructed with cybernetic limbs. Dooku then recruits him into the Separatist Army as his second-in-command.\n\nIn the third volume of \"Clone Wars Adventures\", it is revealed that Grievous attains his rank of Supreme Commander by dueling Ventress and Durge simultaneously. On board the Trenchant space station, Ventress and Durge are ordered by Dooku to search for an unknown intruder with the pair unaware of the Count's intentions. Armed with an electrostaff, Grievous appears from behind and electrocutes Durge and subsequently throws him across the hallway through a few trophies. Ventress jumps onto a chandelier and attempts to search for Grievous, but is instead knocked off by the Cyborg but is saved by Durge. The pair then confront the general face to face, with Ventress unleashing her lightsabers and Durge unleashing his full arsenal. Grievous is able to knock Ventress away, though Durge then sends the general flying across the room into a wall with a powerful punch to the face. Enraged, Grievous unleashes his lightsabers, swiftly defeating the pair. In the wake of the battle, Grievous is made the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy's military.\n\nGrievous starred in his own comic called \"Star Wars: General Grievous\", in which he fights Jedi Master T'chooka D'oon and his Padawan Flyn. After Grievous kills D'oon, Kybo returns to the Jedi council with a plan to destroy Grievous once and for all. When the council rebukes his vengeful plan, Kybo decides to take this matter into own hands with disastrous results. Grievous also appears in the comics in \"Star Wars: Obsession\" issue number 4, in which he is on the world of Boz Pity where he kills two Jedi, Master Soon Bayts and Jedi Council member Adi Gallia. Though Grievous is crippled by Windu, Dooku is able to save him so he may fight another day.\n\nGrievous appears as a major character in the four-part comic series, \"Son of Dathomir\", an unproduced story arc intended for \"Clone Wars\" season six. The cyborg general is sent by Dooku to hunt down the rogue Sith Lord Darth Maul, who has become a significant threat to Sidious's plans. Grievous is ordered to only wound Maul's forces, but not kill him; this is in order to draw out Mother Talzin, who is later revealed to be Maul's blood mother. Though he thinks it foolish to keep Maul alive, Grievous does as he is told. He takes a huge army of droids to Zanbar and attacks Maul's army of Death Watch warriors. Despite heavy casualties, Grievous' droids ultimately win the battle. During the battle, Grievous briefly fights Maul and wins, forcing him to flee. Later, Grievous and Dooku are lured into a trap by Maul and his minions, and are taken prisoner in order to draw out Sidious. However, Grievous soon escapes and rejoins Sidious, who orders Grievous to attack Dathomir again, where Maul and Talzin are planning using Dooku as a sacrifice to restore Talzin to full strength. Sidious fights Talzin while Grievous duels Maul again. Maul eventually overpowers Grievous and Force-pushes him through a wall. Grievous quickly reappears, however, and after Sidious and Dooku have subdued Talzin (who has thrown Maul out of the battle to save his life), Grievous stabs her through the chest with his lightsabers, killing her.\n\nIn the novel \"Labyrinth of Evil\", Grievous plans an invasion of Coruscant alongside Dooku and Sidious. He first appears in the novel watching his hated subordinate Nute Gunray flee from a pursuant Republic Strike Force. Grievous reluctantly saves Gunray by destroying the fighters. Grievous' invasion of the planet Belderone would also be thwarted by Skywalker and Kenobi due to a careless mistake on Gunray's part. Though Gunray resorts to lies, Grievous deduces that the Neimoidian is lying and threatens to kill him. Later on the bridge of the \"Invisible Hand\", Dooku watches as Grievous spars his elite Magnaguards. Though Grievous wins the fight, Dooku points out several flaws in the general's technique while realizing he is partly to blame for the general's inadequacies. Grievous soon launches his invasion on the Republic capital of Coruscant in an attempt to kidnap Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, placing himself on the battlefield once again. During the invasion, Grievous battles Mace Windu while personally trying to capture Palpatine. Though Windu overwhelms Grievous in combat, the cyborg outwits the Jedi Guard and takes Palpatine hostage.\n\nGeneral Grievous has appeared in the video games \"\", \"\" and the \"\" video game.\n\nGrievous next appears in the video game \"Star Wars Galaxies\". Following the establishment of the Galactic Empire, stormtroopers take Grievous' living head, and place it in his body, transforming him to a droid. This war droid has a brief life in the Myyydril Caverns on Kashyyyk before being destroyed by an anonymous group of spacers. The combatants loot the droid's remains, taking its weaponry and anything else of value. The facemask ends up on the Invisible Market, where it is purchased for its artistic properties by a high-ranking Imperial admiral — purported to be none other than Grand Admiral Thrawn.\n\nGrievous also makes a very brief appearance in \"\", when Delta Squad almost catches him boarding his starship to an \"unknown\" planet. Earlier, on Geonosis, after killing Sun Fac, a ship looking similar to Grievous' flies away. The squad notes the ship as not being Geonosian. Grievous makes his next appearance in \"\" and \"\", featured as a boss and an unlockable, playable character in free play mode. He is also playable in free play mode in \"\" by accessing a save file of \"\".\n\nGrievous appears as a playable character in \"\". Grievous also appears as a playable character in \"\". Unlike \"Star Wars: Battlefront II\", in the DS version, he can use his four arms at the cost of force points instead of just two at the end of an attack.\n\nGrievous is also a boss villain in several mini games of the online game \"Clone Wars Adventures\".\n\nGrievous, as an evil pig, is a playable character in \"Angry Birds Star Wars II\".\n\nIn \"\", General Grievous is featured as a boss in story mode and an unlockable, playable character in free play mode.\n\nGrievous is also a collectible, playable character in the mobile turn-based role-playing game, \"\", introduced weeks after the game was released. He is described to be a vicious Separatist attacker with unavoidable attacks that cannot be countered, intimidates his enemies with decreased offense and debuffs and can force allies to taunt when his health is low. \n\nGrievous also appears as a playable Dark Side Squad leader in the mobile MOBA \"\".\n\nGrievous will be a playable character as part of an upcoming Clone Wars season for \"Star Wars Battlefront II\" beginning on October 30, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "37293632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37293632", "title": "George I Ghisi", "text": "George I Ghisi\n\nGeorge I Ghisi () (died 15 March 1311) was a Latin feudal lord in medieval Greece. \n\nA son of Bartholomew I Ghisi, through his first marriage to a daughter of Guy II of Dramelay he was Baron of Chalandritsa in the Principality of Achaea. In 1292, he was also named as castellan of Kalamata. In that year, following a series of destructive raids in the Greek and Latin-held islands of the Aegean Sea, the Aragonese admiral Roger of Lauria led his fleet to anchor at Navarino. Fearful lest the Aragonese seize possession of lands in Achaea, or repeat their plundering raids, and with Prince Florent of Hainaut absent in Italy, George assembled two hundred knights at Androusa and attacked the Aragonese. In a brief but bloody combat, the Achaeans were defeated and George captured, only to be ransomed for 8,000 \"hyperpyra\" shortly after when the Aragonese fleet sailed to Glarentsa.\n\nIn 1303, when his father died, he inherited the lordship of the Aegean islands of Tinos, Mykonos, with fiefs on Serifos and Keos. Through his second wife, Alice dalle Carceri, he also became triarch of Negroponte (Euboea). He was killed in the Battle of the Cephissus against the Catalan Company in 1311. His wife Alice died in 1313.\n\n"}
{"id": "1983653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1983653", "title": "Heinrich George", "text": "Heinrich George\n\nGeorg August Friedrich Hermann Schulz (9 October 1893 – 25 September 1946), better known as Heinrich George (), was a German stage and film actor.\n\nGeorge is noted for having spooked the young Bertolt Brecht in his first directing job, a production of Arnolt Bronnen's \"Parricide\" (1922), when he refused to continue working with the director.\n\nHe played in Fritz Lang's \"Metropolis\" (1927) and\n\"Dreyfus\" (1930). In 1931, he starred in \"Berlin Alexanderplatz\" (1931).\n\nGeorge was an active member of the Communist party during the Weimar Republic. He worked with theatre director Erwin Piscator and playwright Bertolt Brecht, both of whom identified with the political left. George starred in the lead role of the film \"Berlin-Alexanderplatz\" (1931).\n\nOn 12 October 1932, he changed his legal name to his stage name \"George\".\n\nAfter the Nazi takeover, George was classified as a \"non-desirable\" actor at first because of his earlier political affiliations and was thus barred from working in cinematic productions. However, he was eventually able to reach an accommodation with the Nazi regime. In 1937, George was designated as a \"Staatsschauspieler\" (i.e. an actor of national importance) and in 1938 was appointed director of the Schiller Theater in Berlin. George actively collaborated with the Nazis and agreed to star in Nazi propaganda films such as \"Hitler Youth Quex\" (1933), \"Jud Süß\" (1940), and \"Kolberg\" (1945) as well as appearing in numerous newsreels.\n\nGeorge had a stocky build and a Berlin accent which made him readily recognizable to German audiences. George's prestige as a leading actor of the day made him an \"extraordinarily valuable catch for the Nazis.\" Cooke and Silberman describe him as \"the actor most closely tied with fascist fantasies of the autocratic and the populist leader\".\n\nAlthough Heinrich George had been a member of the Communist Party of Germany before the Nazi takeover, he was nonetheless interned as a Nazi collaborator at the Soviet concentration camp in Sachsenhausen where he died in 1946.\n\nThe cause of his death was starvation, even though official reports stated that he died \"after an appendix operation\".\n\nHeinrich George married the German actress Berta Drews. They had two sons: Jan George and actor Götz George.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39051978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39051978", "title": "Hello from Heaven!", "text": "Hello from Heaven!\n\nHello From Heaven! is a 1996 book written by Bill Guggenheim and Judy Guggenheim. The book records what the Guggenheims term after-death communications (ADCs).\n\n\"Hello From Heaven!\" documents the firsthand accounts of people who believe they have been contacted by a loved one who has died, otherwise known as ADCs. The Guggenheims interviewed over 2000 people in the United States and Canada and collected over 3000 ADC accounts. \n\n\"Hello From Heaven!\" and after-death communications have been discussed on, the ABC television news show 20/20, the radio show Coast to Coast AM, and in the newspaper the \"Orlando Sentinel\".\n"}
{"id": "896893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896893", "title": "James Miller (filmmaker)", "text": "James Miller (filmmaker)\n\nJames Henry Dominic Miller (18 December 1968 – 2 May 2003) was a Welsh cameraman, producer, and director, and recipient of numerous awards, including five Emmy Awards. He was killed by a soldier from the Israel Defense Forces (IDF).\nMiller worked regularly with Saira Shah for several years, and they formed a business partnership to operate an independent production company called Frostbite Productions in 2001.\n\nThe soldier who shot him was identified as Captain Hib al-Heib, a Bedouin Arab in the IDF.\n\nThe Israeli Military Police investigation into Miller's death closed on 9 March 2005 with an announcement that the soldier suspected of firing the shot would not be indicted as they could not establish that his shot was responsible, though he would be disciplined for violating the rules of engagement and for changing his account of the incident. On 6 April 2006, the inquest jury at St Pancras Coroner's Court in London returned a verdict of unlawful killing, finding that Miller had been \"murdered.\" Forensic experts from London Metropolitan Police concluded that the bullets were consistent with those used by the IDF. After meetings with the Miller family, the Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith, sent a formal request to his Israeli counterpart in June 2007 for prosecution proceedings to be enacted within six weeks against the soldier responsible for firing the shot. The requests were ignored by the Israeli government and prosecution proceedings have never been held.\n\nJames Miller was born in Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire, Wales the younger son of Geoffrey Miller, an army officer who later rose to the rank of colonel, and his wife, Eileen, a headmistress. He grew up in the West Country, but from ages six to eight lived in the Outer Hebrides, where his father was posted. Raised as a Roman Catholic, he maintained that faith for the whole of his life. He was educated at Downside and later at the London College of Printing, where within a few weeks his tutors promoted him to the postgraduate course in photo-journalism. He worked as a photographer before moving to television.\n\nIn 1997, he married Sophy Warren-Knott, with whom he had a son, Alexander, and a daughter, Charlotte.\n\nMiller started his working life as a freelance cameraman, and in 1995 joined the Frontline News collective as cameraman, producer, and director. He reported from the civil war in Algeria and from most of the world's major trouble spots from 1995 onwards, working for CNN, and for all the leading news broadcasters in Britain.\n\nIn 1999 he made his first film for Hardcash Productions, \"Prime Suspects\", about a massacre in Kosovo for Channel 4's \"Dispatches\" programme. This film won the Royal Television Society (RTS) award for International Current Affairs in 1999. Almost every film he made for Hardcash won major awards. \"Prime Suspects\" was followed by \"Dying for the President\" about the Second Chechen War and \"Children of the Secret State\" about Korea, both also for \"Dispatches\".\n\nMiller then formed a professional association with television reporter Saira Shah, to make \"Beneath the Veil\", about the life of women in Taliban-run Afghanistan. This film, shown on \"Dispatches\" and CNN, repeated the success of \"Prime Suspects\" by again winning the RTS International Current Affairs award. It also won an Emmy Award, a BAFTA, and the RTS \"Programme of the Year\" award. In addition, Miller won the RTS craft award for his outstanding photography. Miller and Shah's second film, \"Unholy War\", shot at the height of the Afghanistan war in 2001, won Miller his first Emmy as director and (together with \"Beneath the Veil\") also the prestigious Peabody award. Miller and Shah almost died of sub-zero temperatures while crossing the Hindu Kush during the making of this film. Frostbite Films was the name of the independent film production company set up by Miller and Shah in 2001 after this experience.\n\nMiller and Shah were working on a documentary for the American cable network HBO at the time of his death. The resulting film, \"Death in Gaza\", was released in 2004, and won three Emmys and one BAFTA TV award in 2005. Miller received posthumously the Rory Peck Award for Features in 2004 for \"Death in Gaza\", having been a finalist on three previous occasions.\n\nAfter Miller's death, his friend Fergal Keane wrote: \"James Miller was one of the finest journalistic talents I have ever known. Had he lived he would undoubtedly have come to be recognised as one of the greatest documentary makers of his generation. As it is he leaves a journalistic legacy of immense worth.\"\n\nThe documentary which Miller was making on the day of his death (\"Death in Gaza\", released by HBO in 2004) depicts Miller and his colleagues leaving the home of a Palestinian family in the Rafah refugee camp after dark, carrying a white flag. They had walked about 20 metres from the veranda when the first shot rang out. For 13 seconds, there was silence broken only by Shah's cry: \"We are British journalists.\" Then came the second shot, which killed Miller. He was shot in the front of his neck. The soldiers who shot him were members of the Bedouin Desert Reconnaissance Battalion. According to a forensic expert, the fatal shot was fired from less than 200 metres away. Immediately after the shooting, the IDF said that Miller had been shot in the back during crossfire. It later retracted the assertion that he had been shot in the back. According to witnesses there was no crossfire and none can be heard on the APTN tape.\n\nAn IDF spokesperson made the following statement after Miller's death: \"The IDF expresses sorrow at the death of the cameraman who entered a combat zone. Cameramen who knowingly enter a combat zone endanger themselves as well as the troops, and clearly run the risk of being caught in the crossfire.\" An IDF spokesperson described the circumstances of his death as occurring during \"an operation taking place at night, in which the [Israeli] force was under fire and in which the force returned fire with light weapons.\"\n\nIDF spokesman, Captain Jacob Dallal said, \"Our forces found a tunnel at the house in question, when an anti-tank missile was fired at them. They shot back at the source of the attack ... James Miller was apparently hit during that exchange. The Israeli military expresses sorrow at a civilian death, but it must be stressed that a cameraman who knowingly enters a combat zone, especially at night, endangers himself.\"\n\nOn 9 March 2005, the IDF closed the Miller case, announcing that the soldier believed responsible for the shooting would not be indicted. The army said Military Police had carefully investigated the incident but had been unable to establish the soldier's guilt. \"The findings of the military police show that an Israel Defense Forces lieutenant, the commanding officer of the IDF force at the site, allegedly fired his weapon in breach of IDF Rules of engagement,\" a statement said. \"However, it is not legally possible to link this shooting to the gunshot sustained by Mr. Miller.\" The army did say that the soldier would be disciplined for violating the rules of engagement and for changing his account of the incident. It did not elaborate.\n\nMiller's family expressed disappointment at the decision. His widow Sophy said, \"Nothing can express our outrage that, waiting for two years and putting our faith in a system which has now failed to deliver, we still have prosecutors who suspect and continue to suspect a commanding officer and who will only bring disciplinary measures because of an initial flawed investigative process. The truth will come out and we hope the Israeli judicial system will mete out justice. This investigation does not serve the IDF, decent Israeli citizens, us, his family, and, above all, James.\"\n\nBritish Foreign Office Minister Baroness Symons said she was \"dismayed\" by the decision. \"I deeply sympathize with James' family, who have worked so hard to secure justice for James. The British government will continue to raise James's case with the government of Israel.\"\n\nOn 2 May 2005, the second anniversary of Miller's death, his family initiated a lawsuit against the Israeli government. The family charge that the Israeli army did not act with reasonable caution when troops opened fire on Miller, who was holding a white flag. Miller's widow Sophy said the family was determined to find justice and put an end to the \"culture of impunity\" within the Israeli army. \"It is our hope that as well as accountability for James' death a successful civil case will go some way towards changing this and in doing so may make Israeli soldiers think twice about shooting innocent civilians,\" she told The Guardian.\n\nMore than two years later, on 5 August 2007, the family's lawyer, Michael Sfard, said, \"The family demands justice, both criminal and civil. They deserve that the man who shot their loved one for no reason whatsoever should be indicted and get what he deserves. As he left a widow and two children, they deserve to be compensated by the State of Israel. This is something the political and military echelons have promised time and again, but they have not fulfilled their promise so far.\"\n\nOn 1 February 2009 it was reported that James Miller's family have accepted a £1.5 million payout from Israel. In a statement, the family did not confirm the amount paid but did say that it was \"probably the closest we'll get to an admission of guilt on the part of the Israelis\".\n\nThe inquest into Miller's death opened at St Pancras Coroner's Court in London on 3 April 2006.\n\nGiving evidence at the inquest, Miller's wife Sophy named the Israeli soldier who shot her husband as First Lieutenant Haib from the Bedouin Desert Reconnaissance Battalion, who was commanding a unit at the time of the killing on 2 May 2003. She said that the IDF had given out misleading information from the moment her husband was shot, and that Lt. Haib had given six testimonies, all of which were conflicting. Despite advice from the Israeli Military Advocate General that he be disciplined for breaching the rules of engagement, illegal use of weapons and misconduct during the investigation, he was acquitted by Brigadier General Guy Tzur, the head of the army's Southern Command.\n\nFootage of Miller's death was shown to an unnamed Israeli soldier who was quoted as saying that members of the IDF should not fire unless they felt they were under threat. He was quoted as saying: \"There is no chance that it was an accident – the soldier could clearly see him, it was a perfect shot. I do not know what to say, it looks like murder, it looks like he wants to kill him.\"\n\nThe court heard that an autopsy proved that Miller died from a \"classic sniper's shot\", and that the bullet was consistent with that used by the IDF. \nIndependent investigator Chris Cobb-Smith, who had previously served in the British Army and as an Iraq weapons inspector, found there was no way the soldier fired by accident. He told the court, \"This was calculated and cold-blooded murder, without a shadow of a doubt.\" He added, \"These shots were not fired by a soldier who was frightened, not fired by a soldier facing incoming fire – these were slow, deliberate, calculated and aimed shots ... It is a soldier aiming and firing deliberately. He should not have been firing anywhere near a lit building, anywhere near where he knew there were women, children or foreign journalists.\"\n\nDaniel Edge, Miller's assistant producer, (who narrowly escaped being shot himself during the same incident) said Israeli soldiers put pressure on him to say that the shot came from Palestinians. He told the inquest: \"They personally tried to get me to say the sentence 'James could have been shot by a Palestinian', which I refused to say.\"\n\nOn 6 April 2006, the jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing, finding that he had been \"murdered\". Miller's family asked that the British government ensure his killer is prosecuted, accusing the Israeli authorities of \"an abject failure to uphold the fundamental and unequivocal standards of international humanitarian and human rights law.\"\n\nIn June 2007, Lord Goldsmith, the then outgoing Attorney General for England and Wales, sent a request to his Israeli counterpart for legal proceedings to be enacted within six weeks to prosecute the soldier responsible for the killing. The request included new analysis of audio evidence which confirmed that the shot that killed Miller was fired from an Israeli armored personnel carrier.\n\nMiller's sister, Anne Waddington, was interviewed by the BBC on the morning of 7 August 2007, the day the six-week deadline was due to expire. She said, \"Unfortunately, we have had four and a half extremely painful years of experiencing the Israeli tactics, and they are the masters of delay – they have always played for time, and they have always failed to deliver.\" She added, \"The Israelis put out a lot of false and misleading statements immediately after my brother was murdered, and they did try to suggest he was killed by a Palestinian in the back and as a result of crossfire, but they put out many, many lies and false stories, which of course have been shown not only on the APTN video footage of the actual murder, but also through eyewitness testimony and the additional evidence which was very, very clear at the time.\" Asked whether she used the word \"murder\" very deliberately, she replied, \"Yes I do, and of course the jury in the inquest last year found, very unusually, that it wasn't just unlawful killing, it was actually murder.\"\n\nOn 7 August 2007, the Israeli Attorney General, Menachem Mazuz, requested more information on the new analysis. After being informed of his response, Miller's family issued a statement:\n\nWe are very pleased that General Mazuz has replied within the time limit set out in Lord Goldsmith's letter. This information has for the most part been in the possession of the Israeli investigators for more than four years.\nWe will look on with interest to see whether Israel will seek to undermine the expertise of the Metropolitan Police's acoustic examination, or perhaps this will be the first significant step towards Israel pursuing justice.\nAt the request of Miller's family, Lord Goldsmith agreed to ask the UK Crown Prosecution Service to advise \"on whether there is enough evidence for a prosecution in the UK under the Geneva Conventions Act in which case the UK government could request extradition.\" Eventually, the Israeli government agreed to pay the Miller family ₤1.75 million, if the British government agreed to close the case, and not demand the extradition of the Israeli soldiers involved in his killing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39383707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39383707", "title": "Janani Suraksha Yojana", "text": "Janani Suraksha Yojana\n\nJanani Suraksha Yojana (JSY) () is an Indian Government scheme proposed by the Government of India. It was launched on 12 April 2005 by the Prime Minister of India on the birth anniversary of Kasturba Gandhi. It aims to decrease the neo-natal and maternal deaths happening in the country by promoting institutional delivery of babies. This is a safe motherhood intervention under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM).\n\nIt is a 100% centrally sponsored scheme it integrates cash assistance with delivery and post-delivery care. The success of the scheme would \nbe determined by the increase in institutional delivery among the poor families.\n"}
{"id": "12479219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12479219", "title": "Jesse Marunde", "text": "Jesse Marunde\n\nJesse Marunde (September 14, 1979 – July 25, 2007) was an American strongman athlete who placed second in the 2005 World's Strongest Man competition. He is the brother of mixed martial artist Bristol Marunde.\n\nOriginally from Glennallen, Alaska, he later moved to Sequim, Washington. He was a high-school athlete, playing several sports, including Olympic lifting. He received an athletic scholarship to Montana State University, to play football. At age 18 he officially closed the No. 3 Captains of Crush Gripper, a hand gripper with 280 lb (127 kg) of resistance, and is the youngest person to achieve certified \"Captain of Crush\" status.\n\nIn 2002, at age 22, Marunde was the youngest American ever to qualify for the 2002 World's Strongest Man. His second-place finish in 2005 made him the first American to place in the top two competitors since O.D. Wilson finished second in 1990, behind Jón Páll Sigmarsson.\n\nOn July 25, 2007 Marunde died following a workout in Sequim, Washington. The cause of his death was a genetic heart defect, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a leading cause of sudden cardiac death in young athletes. Jesse's widow Callie Marunde is currently married to professional strongman competitor Nick Best.\n\n"}
{"id": "2212124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2212124", "title": "Joe Delaney", "text": "Joe Delaney\n\nJoe Alton Delaney (; October 30, 1958 – June 29, 1983) was an American football running back who played two seasons in the National Football League (NFL). In his two seasons with the Kansas City Chiefs, Delaney set four franchise records that would stand for more than twenty years.\n\nHe was a two-time All-American athlete for the Northwestern State Demons football team, as well as a track and field star. Delaney played two seasons with the Chiefs and was chosen as the AFC Rookie of the Year in 1981 by United Press International.\n\nDelaney died on June 29, 1983 while attempting to rescue three children from drowning in a pond in Monroe in northeastern Louisiana. He was posthumously awarded the Presidential Citizen's Medal from U.S. President Ronald W. Reagan. While not officially retired, his jersey number while playing for the Chiefs, No. 37, has not been worn since his death.\n\nThe third of Woodrow and Eunice Delaney's eight children, Delaney was born in Henderson, on October 30, 1958, and attended Haughton High School in Bossier Parish in northwestern Louisiana. Discouraged by his father from pursuing his dreams of playing football, Delaney became the starting wide receiver by his junior year at Haughton. Major Division I schools that scouted him included Grambling State, Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana State.\n\nDelaney played for Division I-AA's Northwestern State Demons from 1977 to 1980. After telling his coach of his willingness to play football at the collegiate level, Delaney switched to the running back position. He went on to be an All-American selection in 1979 and 1980. While at Northwestern State, Delaney met his future wife, Carolyn, and they had two children by his senior year.\n\nOn October 28, 1978, Delaney carried the ball 28 times and gained 299 yards for Northwestern State against Nicholls State University with 263 of the yards coming in the game's second half. Delaney's rushing stats in the second half of the game are an NCAA record. In the same game, he scored four touchdowns, one of which was on a 90-yard run, as he led his team to a 28–18 victory.\n\nDelaney finished his career at Northwestern State with 3,047 yards rushing, 31 touchdowns, and 188 points. In 1980, his senior season, he was ranked eighth in the nation in all-purpose rushing yards. On November 22, 1980 he played his last game at Northwestern State and the school retired his jersey, number 44, at halftime. Delaney was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1997.\n\nAt Northwestern State, Delaney also starred in track. In high school, he ran the 100 yard dash in 9.4 seconds and was on the Northwestern State track and field team, which won the NCAA 400-meter relay in 1981. He holds the school 200 meter dash record with a time of 20.64 seconds.\n\nDelaney was selected in the second round of the 1981 NFL Draft by the Kansas City Chiefs. United Press International named him Rookie of the Year of the American Football Conference for the 1981 NFL season after he rushed for 1,121 yards, set four club records, and averaged 80.9 yards a game. Delaney's effort helped propel the Chiefs to a 9–7 record, the team's first winning season since 1973. In his rookie season, he was selected to the Pro Bowl after setting Chiefs records for most yards in a season (1,121), most yards in a game (193 vs. Houston), most consecutive 100-yard-plus games (three) and most 100-yard games in a season (five).\n\nAfter coming off the bench to record 101 rushing yards in his initial NFL action at New England, he ran for 106 yards and registered 104 receiving yards in his first professional start against Oakland. In the Chiefs' October 18, 1981 game against the Denver Broncos, Delaney broke loose for a 75-yard touchdown run, but an offside penalty caused the play to be restarted from five yards back. On the second play after the penalty, Delaney scored an 82-yard touchdown, the longest rushing play from scrimmage in the 1981 NFL season.\n\nFollowing Delaney's record-setting 196-yard rushing performance against the Houston Oilers on November 15, 1981, Oilers defensive end (and future Pro Football Hall of Famer) Elvin Bethea was quoted in saying:\n\nA strike by NFL players and an eye injury limited Delaney's playing time in the 1982 NFL season. He underwent surgery to repair a detached retina, and only registered 380 rushing yards in the eight-game shortened season, which the Chiefs finished with a 3–6 record. Delaney averaged 4.6 yards per carry, 9.1 yards per reception, and registered 1,811 all-purpose yards during his career with three touchdowns.\n\nDelaney had a lifelong history of helping others, and once paid for the funeral of a former teacher whose family could not afford a proper service. On June 29, 1983, Delaney, who was living in nearby Ruston, went with friends to Critter's Creek, an amusement center at Chennault Park in Monroe, Louisiana. While reportedly discouraging swimming children from venturing too far out in a pond, Delaney dove in to save three children who were screaming for help, floundering in a water hole left by recent construction work. The water hole, which covered two acres and was six feet deep, was not intended for swimming but to add to the park's aesthetics. Despite his inability to swim, Delaney nevertheless tried to rescue the children. One child managed to get out of the water without harm and another was taken to an emergency room where he later died; police recovered the body of Delaney and the remaining child. The amusement park has since been closed to the public.\nThree thousand people attended Delaney's burial and memorial service on July 4 which was held in the sweltering heat of the Haughton High School gymnasium. President Ronald Reagan honored Delaney with the Presidential Citizens Medal on July 15, and it was presented to Delaney's family by Vice President George H. W. Bush. Reagan's words were:\n\nFor the 1983 NFL season, the Chiefs honored Delaney by wearing a circular patch bearing a gold eagle and the number 37 on the upper-left chest of their uniforms. Haughton High School also made a park, Joe Delaney Park, in his memory. The NCAA posthumously awarded Delaney the NCAA Award of Valor in 1984. Louisiana Governor Dave Treen presented the Louisiana State Civilian Bravery Award to Delaney's family following his death.\n\nDelaney's heroism is honored through an award for one of the NFL's best running backs who also demonstrates admirable character and unselfishness, traits that were embodied by Delaney. The award is given annually by ProFootballTalk.com.\n\nNorthwestern State's football permanent team captains award, the Joe Delaney Memorial Leadership award, is named in his honor, as is the annual spring football game (\"Delaney Bowl\") and a golf tournament that generates support for the athletic program. A permanent shrine honoring him sits under the home stands at Northwestern State's Turpin Stadium and his number 44 jersey hangs in the football offices. In Virginia, the Delaney Athletic Conference took its name to honor his memory in the fall of 1983, and today 13 Virginia private high schools comprise the DAC.\n\nA group of Chiefs fans in Kansas City formed the \"37Forever Foundation\", which works with the American Red Cross to provide swimming lessons for underprivileged children. The Kansas City Chiefs unofficially retired Delaney's jersey number 37 following his death, and he was elected to the team's Hall of Fame in 2004. His name is included in the Chiefs' ring of honor at Arrowhead Stadium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8063846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8063846", "title": "Joseph C. Amberg", "text": "Joseph C. Amberg\n\nJoseph Amberg (1892 – September 30, 1935) was a New York mobster who, with his brothers Hyman and Louis \"Pretty\" Amberg, was involved in labor racketeering and other criminal activities. During the 1920s and 1930s the brothers competed with rivals such as Jacob \"Gurrah\" Shapiro, Louis \"Lepke\" Buchalter, Abe \"Kid Twist\" Reles and the Shapiro Brothers. On September 30, 1935, Amberg was murdered alongside associate Morris Kessler. The pair were ambushed in a Brownsville, Brooklyn auto repair garage and, after being ordered to line up against the wall, were gunned down by members of Murder, Inc.\n"}
{"id": "7800355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7800355", "title": "Kovilan", "text": "Kovilan\n\nKandanisseri Vattomparambil Velappan Ayyappan (9 July 1923 – 2 June 2010) or V. V. Ayyappan, better known by his nom de plume Kovilan, was a Malayalam language novelist and freedom fighter from Kerala state, South India. He is considered as one of the most prolific writers of contemporary Indian literature. In all, he had authored 11 novels, 10 collections of short stories, three essays and a play. Though the settings of his stories varied from military camps in frozen Himalayas to obscure village in Thrissur, he brought to bear a universal dimension on them transcending the limitations of space and time. Though initially he was branded as a writer of military stories, Kovilan soon proved that he looked at life with its varied dimensions. His works like \"Thottangal\", \"A Minus B\" and \"Ezhamedangal\" reflected the existential dilemmas of human beings instead of depicting mere external situations and realities in a linear mode. But Kovilan received the highest critical appreciation for his later work \"Thattakam\", a powerful and poignant portrayal of generations of people in his ancestral hamlet.\n\nHe won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award in 1972 and 1977 and the Kendra Sahitya Akademi Award in 1998. He was also a recipient of the Kerala state government's highest literary honour Ezhuthachan Puraskaram in recognition of his outstanding contribution to Malayalam literature. He had been a Fellow of the Kerala Sahitya Akademi since 1997 and Sahitya Akademi since 2005.\n\nKovilan was born in Kandanassery in Guruvayur, Thrissur to Vattomparambil Shanku Velappan and Kotakkattil Kunjandi Kali. He did his early education at the Kandanisseri Excelsior School and Nenmini Higher Elementary School. He then joined the Sahitya Deepika Sanskrit College at Pavaratty at the age of 13. He had the good fortune to attend classes by the scholars like K. P. Narayana Pisharody, P. C. Vasudevan Elayathu, M. P. Sankunni Nair, Cherukadu and Srikrishna Sharma. Even as a student, he had shown interest in writing poems and stories. As a budding writer, poetry was Kovilan's primary passion. But life and time of his adolescence – the oppressive colonial and feudal rule, the casteist social milieu, widespread rural poverty that climaxed in stark famine during the war years, the agony of fracturing familial and social bonds and the inner urge to rebel maturing into politically conscious militancy – compelled him to switch over to fiction as a wider arena of self-expression.\n\nA staunch follower of Mahatma Gandhi, Kovilan left the Sanskrit College to participate in the Quit India Movement. That marked the end of his formal academic education. By the time he quit, he had written at least three novels.\n\nHe joined the Royal Indian Navy in 1943 and was trained in Anti-submarine Detecting Operations. He served in Bengal sea, Burma and Singapore. He quit following the Royal Indian Navy mutiny of 1946 and returned home. While back in Kerala, Kovilan maintained a close friendship with Vaikom Muhammed Basheer, Joseph Mundassery and C. J. Thomas. He also took part in the trade union movements. In 1948 he passed SSLC and worked for a while as a stenographer for Joseph Mundassery. In 1948, he joined the Indian Army Corps of Signals as Radio Mechanic. He also specialised in electronics. For five years he lived in the Himalayas. While in army, he came in contact with soldier-turned-writers Parappurath and Nandanar. He also worked as National Cadet Corps training officer at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. He retired from the Indian Army in 1968 as Havildar Major and settled down at Pullanikunnu at Kandanassery.\n\nKovilan died on 2 June 2010 in Kunnamkulam, aged 86. He was suffering from some respiratory problems. His wife Sarada predeceased him in 1999. They had three children: Vijaya, Ajithan and Amitha. His grand daughters are Dr. Arya Ajith Vattamparambil who works at Amrita Medical College, Ernakulam and Pournima Jayaprakash who is practising law in Attingal.\n\nKovilan, who led a simple life, is considered as one of the most prolific writers of contemporary Indian literature. His works stand apart by originality in their themes, sharp characterisation and style. In all, he had authored 11 novels, 10 collections of short stories, three essays and a play.\n\nKovilan has written 4 novels—\"A Minus B\" (1958), \"Ezhamedangal\" (Army Wives, 1965), \"Thazhvarakal\" (The Valleys, 1969) and \"Himalayam\"—with military experiences as their background. \"A Minus B\" was originally published in a weekly. However, not satisfied with the output, Kovilan dismantled and rewrote the novel. \"A Minus B\" brought Malayalam novel to new heights. This was the first Malayalam novel with characters from every part of India. In its portrayal of life in a military barrack, it doesn't have a central character or a conventional beginning or end. The novel was translated into English by N. Kunji and was published by Kerala Sahitya Akademi, Thrissur. \"Ezhamedangal\", \"Thazhvarakal\" and \"Himalayam\" can be considered as a trilogy. Set against the impending Sino-Indian War the characters in these novels encounter the ontological questions of life and death in their own way with an apocalyptic urgency. The archetypal image of dancing Siva, synchronised in line and space with the deluging war, is invoked in \"Himalayam\" through a complex architecture and a distilled poetic diction. The cosmic dimensions of this trilogy still elude the literary pundits.\n\n\"Thottangal\" (Incantations, 1970), the first post-service novel of the writer, narrates the delirious memories of an old woman in the night of her death whose life was shipwrecked turning the dreams of her childhood into nightmares. Bharathan, the protagonist in \"Bharathan\", published during the prevalence of the Emergency, is a historical metaphor that incises the sociopolitical realities of post-independent India. Bharathan is implicated, persecuted an tried in a mock court of establishment and sentenced to the destined death. The novelist cruelly reveals that the wages of innocence in our pseudo society is nothing lesser than its elimination.\n\nHis most popular novel was \"Thattakam\" (The Terrain, 1995). A grand narrative of epic dimension it is the saga of a land and its people, its mythical genesis and long sojourn into a civil society. The novel unfolds itself through umpteen anecdotes sprouting from legends, oracles, revelations, fantasies and historical events themselves. The narrative invents its own time and space that allows free passage of countless generations across the past, the present and the future. The novel won him national recognition with the Kendra Sahitya Akademi Award in 1998. It was described in the fellowship citation as \"a saga of a land and its people, its mythical genesis and long sojourn to reach a civil society. The novel unfolds itself through innumerable anecdotes sprouting from legends, oracles, revelations, fantasies and historical events. Its structure closely follows the magic of loosely connected episodes being integrated into a meta-narrative, reminiscent of the great Indian epics. The narrative invents its own time and space that allows free passage of countless generations across the past, the present and the future. In this mission, Kovilan develops a linguistic symphony that blends the dialects and language of myriad social strata. Thattakam will certainly leave its reader spellbound to muse over the super-human imagination and artistic stamina that its author is endowed with.\"\n\nKovilan's first collection of short stories was \"Oru Palam Manayola\" (A Measure of Red Arsenic). This book was published in the year 1957. The story \"Tharavadu\" (Ancestral Home) is included in this collection. Kovilan's other collections of short stories include \"Ee Jeevitham Ananthamanu\" (1957), \"Orikkal Manushyanayirunnu\" (1960), \"Oru Kashanam Asthi\" (1961), \"Vendam Kadi\" (1969), \"Thervazhchakal\" (1971), \"Pitham\" (1971), \"Shakunam\" (1974), \"Adyathe Kathakal\" (1978), \"Sujatha\" (1979), \"Theranjedutha Kathakal\" (1980) and \"Kovilante Kathakal\" (1985). A tele-serial based on his novel \"Thottangal\" was beamed on Doordarshan. Some of his short stories also have been adapted for tele-screen.\n\nEver since Kovilan's stories started getting published in the periodicals of the 1950s, critics have marked him as 'unique and original' not only for the power of language and deftness for characterisation but also for choice of themes and intense experiences they sought to convey. Right from his debutant novel \"Thakarnna Hridayangal\" written at the age of 19 he was obsessively vigilant nit to emulate any models, set not only by others but by himself also. While many established Malayalam writers often betrayed their limitations because they hardly had any experience of living outside their immediate environs, Kovilan had hands-on experiences on riddles and dilemmas of human life as much of his youth in military camps as a radio mechanic, far away from home and hearth. Kovilan's characters depicted, subtly, how human dignity and freedom are hallowed out through regimentation, by powers that be in independent India also just as in the colonial regime. They, however, do not accept their destiny, unquestioned. Kovilan keeps this element of resistance and rebellion in his characters burning. Kovilan's stories that shed light on the lives in and out of military barracks marked a remarkable change in the way stories had been told in Malayalam literature. Kovilan has written four novels—\"A Minus B\", \"Ezhamedangal\", \"Thazhvarakal\" and \"Himalayam\"—with military experiences as their background. Apart from the pan-Indian lives and terrains that he introduced, through writings, he restructured the narrative concepts, hitherto familiar to Malayalam fiction. Kovilan jettisoned the idea of linear narrative woven around a protagonist. He experimented with the new technique of so many characters revealing themselves at so many junctures simultaneously in a cobweb-like narrative pattern.\n\nKovilan's visions are reflected in his works, right from the choice of the subject to the use of the language and imagery. Even when he shared the concerns of the progressive writers movement of the state, his sensibilities were radically different. When many of his peers were passionately experimenting with modernist trends in fiction writing, drawing inspiration from popular English and European writers, Kovilan sought his roots and soul, the traditions, culture and language of the common people, the soulful tales and tunes of the community that he lived in, and the countless characters that he encountered in his speckled life. Poverty and hunger had been the primary concerns of the writer. His quest for human dignity and art of telling complex stories in a stunningly simple language were remarkable. Writer and social critic Sukumar Azhikode once said that the gap between life and literature was very little in Kovilan's works.\n\nKovilan was a staunch votary of the labour class during his lifetime. Kovilan was always in the forefront in opposing tendencies against democracy. He was as one of the early leaders of the progressive literary movement. Kovilan was a storyteller who embraced leftist humanism and possessed an impressively high degree of social perspective. Kovilan's works had immensely contributed to transforming a community bogged down by conservatism to one that was progressive and socialist in outlook.\n\nIn a 1977 article titled \"Modernism in the Novel\", Kovilan talked about one of his most important concerns as a writer: \"To put a live human being on the post-mortem table in his fundamental state, without his clothes or make-up, to open him up like a frog in the zoology lab, with his chest and abdomen nailed flat, and his heart pounding still, even after the studies – we have not had many such instances in our novels, to show the beats of human character in the raw like this... Hunger is a human being's primary craving... And the war pangs of hunger are the true nature of human beings. The ruckus that happens here in the pretext of ‘modernism' is enough to drown these pangs of hunger. This is not literature, but literary vulgarity.\" In another article written nearly a decade later, he said: \"Dialogues will never become literature. A writer cannot realise the vagaries of human life merely through dialogues. But, human being! It is never a single being. More masquerades than a chameleon. Never-ending masks. As the masks fall off one by one, the story touches you more and more deeply.\"\n\nPoet and critic K. Satchidanandan notes: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26075736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26075736", "title": "List of cemeteries in Belgium", "text": "List of cemeteries in Belgium\n\nCemeteries in Belgium both civil and military.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21578093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21578093", "title": "List of fatal accidents in motorboat racing", "text": "List of fatal accidents in motorboat racing\n\nAs motorboat racing is a dangerous sport, many individuals (including drivers, crew members, officials and spectators) have been killed in crashes related to the sport, either in a race, in qualifying, in practice or a private testing session. For example, in offshore powerboat racing, one racer dies each year from accidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "53542326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53542326", "title": "List of plant hybrids", "text": "List of plant hybrids\n\nThis is a list of plant hybrids created intentionally or by chance and exploited commercially in agriculture or horticulture. The hybridization event mechanism is documented where known, along with the authorities who described it and the date.\n"}
{"id": "39680402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39680402", "title": "Lucius Aemilius Mamercinus (consul 366 BC)", "text": "Lucius Aemilius Mamercinus (consul 366 BC)\n\nLucius Aemilius L.f. Mamercinus was a Roman patrician who served as consul in 366 and 363 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "19597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19597", "title": "Machinima", "text": "Machinima\n\nMachinima () is the use of real-time computer graphics engines to create a cinematic production. Most often, video games are used to generate the computer animation.\n\nMachinima-based artists, sometimes called machinimists or machinimators, are often fan laborers, by virtue of their re-use of copyrighted materials (see below). Machinima offers to provide an archive of gaming performance and access to the look and feel of software and hardware that may already have become unavailable or even obsolete; for game studies, \"Machinima’s gestures grant access to gaming’s historical conditions of possibility and how machinima offers links to a comparative horizon that informs, changes, and fully participates in videogame culture.\"\n\nThe practice of using graphics engines from video games arose from the animated software introductions of the 1980s demoscene, Disney Interactive Studios' 1992 video game \"Stunt Island\", and 1990s recordings of gameplay in first-person shooter (FPS) video games, such as id Software's \"Doom\" and \"Quake\". Originally, these recordings documented speedruns—attempts to complete a level as quickly as possible—and multiplayer matches. The addition of storylines to these films created \"\"Quake\" movies\". The more general term \"machinima\", a portmanteau of \"machine cinema\", arose when the concept spread beyond the \"Quake\" series to other games and software. After this generalization, machinima appeared in mainstream media, including television series and advertisements.\n\nMachinima has advantages and disadvantages when compared to other styles of filmmaking. Its relative simplicity over traditional frame-based animation limits control and range of expression. Its real-time nature favors speed, cost saving, and flexibility over the higher quality of pre-rendered computer animation. Virtual acting is less expensive, dangerous, and physically restricted than live action. Machinima can be filmed by relying on in-game artificial intelligence (AI) or by controlling characters and cameras through digital puppetry. Scenes can be precisely scripted, and can be manipulated during post-production using video editing techniques. Editing, custom software, and creative cinematography may address technical limitations. Game companies have provided software for and have encouraged machinima, but the widespread use of digital assets from copyrighted games has resulted in complex, unresolved legal issues.\n\nMachinima productions can remain close to their gaming roots and feature stunts or other portrayals of gameplay. Popular genres include dance videos, comedy, and drama. Alternatively, some filmmakers attempt to stretch the boundaries of the rendering engines or to mask the original 3-D context. The Academy of Machinima Arts & Sciences (AMAS), a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting machinima, recognizes exemplary productions through Mackie awards given at its annual Machinima Film Festival. Some general film festivals accept machinima, and game companies, such as Epic Games, Blizzard Entertainment and Jagex, have sponsored contests involving it.\n\n1980s software crackers added custom introductory credits sequences (intros) to programs whose copy protection they had removed. Increasing computing power allowed for more complex intros, and the demoscene formed when focus shifted to the intros instead of the cracks. The goal became to create the best 3-D demos in real-time with the least amount of software code. Disk storage was too slow for this; graphics had to be calculated on the fly and without a pre-existing game engine.\n\nIn Disney Interactive Studios' 1992 computer game \"Stunt Island\", users could stage, record, and play back stunts; as Nitsche stated, the game's goal was \"not ... a high score but a spectacle.\" Released the following year, id Software's \"Doom\" included the ability to record gameplay as sequences of events that the game engine could later replay in real-time. Because events and not video frames were saved, the resulting game demo files were small and easily shared among players. A culture of recording gameplay developed, as Henry Lowood of Stanford University called it, \"a context for spectatorship... The result was nothing less than a metamorphosis of the player into a performer.\" Another important feature of \"Doom\" was that it allowed players to create their own modifications, maps, and software for the game, thus expanding the concept of game authorship. In machinima, there is a dual register of gestures: the trained motions of the player determine the in-game images of expressive motion.\n\nIn parallel of the video game approach, in the media art field, Maurice Benayoun’s Virtual Reality artwork \"The Tunnel under the Atlantic\" (1995), often compared to video games, introduced a virtual film director, fully autonomous intelligent agent, to shoot and edit in real time a full video from the digging performance in the Pompidou Center in Paris and the Museum of Contemporary art in Montreal. The full movie, \"Inside the Tunnel under the Atlantic\", 21h long, was followed in 1997 by \"Inside the Paris New-Delhi Tunnel\" (13h long). Only short excerpts where presented to the public. The complex behavior of the Tunnel’s virtual director makes it a significant precursor of later application to video games based machinimas.\n\n\"Doom\"s 1996 successor, \"Quake\", offered new opportunities for both gameplay and customization, while retaining the ability to record demos. Multiplayer games became popular, almost a sport; demos of matches between teams of players (clans) were recorded and studied. Paul Marino, executive director of the AMAS, stated that deathmatches, a type of multiplayer game, became more \"cinematic\". At this point, however, they still documented gameplay without a narrative.\n\nOn October 26, 1996, a well-known gaming clan, the Rangers, surprised the \"Quake\" community with \"Diary of a Camper\", the first widely known machinima film. This short, 100-second demo file contained the action and gore of many others, but in the context of a brief story, rather than the usual deathmatch. An example of transformative or emergent gameplay, this shift from competition to theater required both expertise in and subversion of the game's mechanics. The Ranger demo emphasized this transformation by retaining specific gameplay references in its story.\n\n\"Diary of a Camper\" inspired many other \"\"Quake\" movies,\" as these films were then called. A community of game modifiers (modders), artists, expert players, and film fans began to form around them. The works were distributed and reviewed on websites such as The Cineplex, Psyk's Popcorn Jungle, and the Quake Movie Library (QML). Production was supported by dedicated demo-processing software, such as Uwe Girlich's Little Movie Processing Center (LMPC) and David \"crt\" Wright's non-linear editor Keygrip; the latter became known as \"Adobe Premiere for Quake demo files\". Among the notable films were Clan Phantasm's \"Devil's Covenant\", the first feature-length \"Quake\" movie; Avatar and Wendigo's \"Blahbalicious\", which the QML awarded seven Quake Movie Oscars; and Clan Undead's \"Operation Bayshield\", which introduced simulated lip synchronization and featured customized digital assets.\n\nReleased in December 1997, id Software's \"Quake II\" improved support for user-created 3-D models. However, without compatible editing software, filmmakers continued to create works based on the original \"Quake\"; these included the ILL Clan's \"Apartment Huntin'\" and the Quake done Quick group's \"Scourge Done Slick\". \"Quake II\" demo editors became available in 1998; in particular, Keygrip 2.0 introduced \"recamming\", the ability to adjust camera locations after recording. Paul Marino called the addition of this feature \"a defining moment for [m]achinima\". With \"Quake II\" filming now feasible, Strange Company's 1999 production \"Eschaton: Nightfall\" was the first work to feature entirely custom-made character models.\n\nThe December 1999 release of id's \"Quake III Arena\" posed a problem to the \"Quake\" movie community. The game's demo file included information needed for computer networking; however, to prevent cheating, id warned of legal action for dissemination of the file format. Thus, it was impractical to enhance software to work with \"Quake III\". Concurrently, the novelty of \"Quake\" movies was waning. New productions appeared less frequently, and, according to Marino, the community needed to \"reinvent itself\" to offset this development.\n\n\"Borg War\", a 90-minute animated Star Trek fan film, was produced using Elite Force 2 (a \"Quake III\" variant) and Starfleet Command 3, repurposing the games' voiceover clips to create a new plot. \"Borg War\" was nominated for two \"Mackie\" awards by the Academy of Machinima Arts & Sciences. An August 2007 screening at a \"Star Trek\" convention in Las Vegas was the first time that CBS/Paramount had approved the screening of a non-parody fan film at a licensed convention.\n\nIn January 2000, Hugh Hancock, the founder of Strange Company, launched a new website, machinima.com. The new name surprised the community; a misspelled contraction of \"machine cinema\" (\"machinema\"), the term \"machinima\" was intended to dissociate in-game filming from a specific engine. The misspelling stuck because it also referenced anime. The new site featured tutorials, interviews, articles, and the exclusive release of Tritin Films' \"Quad God\". The first film made with \"Quake III Arena\", \"Quad God\" was also the first to be distributed as recorded video frames, not game-specific instructions. This change was initially controversial among machinima producers who preferred the smaller size of demo files. However, demo files required a copy of the game to view. The more accessible traditional video format broadened \"Quad God\"s viewership, and the work was distributed on CDs bundled with magazines. Thus, id's decision to protect \"Quake III\"s code inadvertently caused machinima creators to use more general solutions and thus widen their audience. Within a few years, machinima films were almost exclusively distributed in common video file formats.\nMachinima began to receive mainstream notice. Roger Ebert discussed it in a June 2000 article and praised Strange Company's machinima setting of Percy Bysshe Shelley's sonnet \"Ozymandias\". At Showtime Network's 2001 Alternative Media Festival, the ILL Clan's 2000 machinima film \"Hardly Workin'\" won the Best Experimental and Best in SHO awards. Steven Spielberg used \"Unreal Tournament\" to test special effects while working on his 2001 film \"\" Eventually, interest spread to game developers. In July 2001, Epic Games announced that its upcoming game \"Unreal Tournament 2003\" would include Matinee, a machinima production software utility. As involvement increased, filmmakers released fewer new productions to focus on quality.\n\nAt the March 2002 Game Developers Conference, five machinima makers—Anthony Bailey, Hugh Hancock, Katherine Anna Kang, Paul Marino, and Matthew Ross—founded the AMAS, a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting machinima. At QuakeCon in August, the new organization held the first Machinima Film Festival, which received mainstream media coverage. \"\", by Jake Hughes and Tom Hall, won three awards, including Best Picture. The next year, \"In the Waiting Line\", directed by Tommy Pallotta and animated by Randy Cole, utilizing Fountainhead Entertainment's Machinimation tools, it became the first machinima music video to air on MTV. As graphics technology improved, machinima filmmakers used other video games and consumer-grade video editing software. Using Bungie's 2001 game \"\", Rooster Teeth Productions created a popular comedy series \"Red vs. Blue: The Blood Gulch Chronicles\". The series' second season premiered at the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in 2004.\n\nMachinima has appeared on television, starting with G4's series \"Portal\". In the BBC series \"Time Commanders\", players re-enacted historic battles using Creative Assembly's real-time game \"\". MTV2's \"Video Mods\" re-creates music videos using characters from video games such as \"The Sims 2\", \"BloodRayne\", and \"Tribes\". Blizzard Entertainment helped to set part of \"Make Love, Not Warcraft\", an Emmy Award–winning 2006 episode of the comedy series \"South Park\", in its massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) \"World of Warcraft\". By purchasing broadcast rights to Douglas Gayeton's machinima documentary \"Molotov Alva and His Search for the Creator\" in September 2007, HBO became the first television network to buy a work created completely in a virtual world. In December 2008, machinima.com signed fifteen experienced television comedy writers—including Patric Verrone, Bill Oakley, and Mike Rowe—to produce episodes for the site.\n\nCommercial use of machinima has increased.Rooster Teeth sells DVDs of their \"Red vs. Blue\" series and, under sponsorship from Electronic Arts, helped to promote \"The Sims 2\" by using the game to make a machinima series, \"The Strangerhood\". Volvo Cars sponsored the creation of a 2004 advertisement, \"\", the first film to combine machinima and live action. Later, Electronic Arts commissioned Rooster Teeth to promote their \"Madden NFL 07\" video game. Blockhouse TV uses Moviestorm's machinima software to produce its pre-school educational DVD series \"Jack and Holly\"\n\nGame developers have continued to increase support for machinima. Products such as Lionhead Studios' 2005 business simulation game \"The Movies\", Linden Research's virtual world \"Second Life\", and Bungie's 2007 first-person shooter \"Halo 3\" encourage the creation of user content by including machinima software tools. Using \"The Movies\", Alex Chan, a French resident with no previous filmmaking experience, took four days to create \"The French Democracy\", a short political film about the 2005 civil unrest in France. Third-party mods like \"Garry's Mod\" usually offer the ability to manipulate characters and take advantage of custom or migrated content, allowing for the creation of works like \"Counter-Strike For Kids\" that can be filmed using multiple games.\n\nIn a 2010 interview with PC Magazine, Valve Corporation CEO and co-founder Gabe Newell said that they wanted to make a \"Half-Life\" feature film themselves, rather than hand it off to a big-name director like Sam Raimi, and that their recent \"Team Fortress 2\" \"Meet The Team\" machinima shorts were experiments in doing just that. Two years later, Valve released their proprietary non-linear machinima software, Source Filmmaker.\n\nMachinima has also been used for music video clips. \"Second Life\" virtual artist Bryn Oh created a work for Australian performer Megan Bernard's song \"Clean Up Your Life\", released in 2016.\n\nThe AMAS defines machinima as \"animated filmmaking within a real-time virtual 3-D environment\". In other 3-D animation methods, creators can control every frame and nuance of their characters but, in turn, must consider issues such as key frames and inbetweening. Machinima creators leave many rendering details to their host environments, but may thus inherit those environments' limitations. Second Life Machinima film maker Ozymandius King provided a detailed account of the process by which the artists at MAGE Magazine produce their videos. \"Organizing for a photo shoot is similar to organizing for a film production. Once you find the actors / models, you have to scout locations, find clothes and props for the models and type up a shooting script. The more organized you are the less time it takes to shoot the scene.\" Because game animations focus on dramatic rather than casual actions, the range of character emotions is often limited. However, Kelland, Morris, and Lloyd state that a small range of emotions is often sufficient, as in successful Japanese anime television series.\n\nAnother difference is that machinima is created in real time, but other animation is pre-rendered. Real-time engines need to trade quality for speed and use simpler algorithms and models. In the 2001 animated film \"\", every strand of hair on a character's head was independent; real-time needs would likely force them to be treated as a single unit. Kelland, Morris, and Lloyd argue that improvement in consumer-grade graphics technology will allow more realism; similarly, Paul Marino connects machinima to the increasing computing power predicted by Moore's law. For cut scenes in video games, issues other than visual fidelity arise. Pre-rendered scenes can require more digital storage space, weaken suspension of disbelief through contrast with real-time animation of normal gameplay, and limit interaction.\n\nLike live action, machinima is recorded in real-time, and real people can act and control the camera. Filmmakers are often encouraged to follow traditional cinematic conventions, such as avoiding wide fields of view, the overuse of slow motion, and errors in visual continuity. Unlike live action, machinima involves less expensive, digital special effects and sets, possibly with a science-fiction or historical theme. Explosions and stunts can be tried and repeated without monetary cost and risk of injury, and the host environment may allow unrealistic physical constraints. University of Cambridge experiments in 2002 and 2003 attempted to use machinima to re-create a scene from the 1942 live-action film \"Casablanca\". Machinima filming differed from traditional cinematography in that character expression was limited, but camera movements were more flexible and improvised. Nitsche compared this experiment to an unpredictable Dogme 95 production.\nBerkeley sees machinima as \"a strangely hybrid form, looking forwards and backwards, cutting edge and conservative at the same time\". Machinima is a digital medium based on 3-D computer games, but most works have a linear narrative structure. Some, such as \"Red vs. Blue\" and \"The Strangerhood\", follow narrative conventions of television situational comedy. Nitsche agrees that pre-recorded (\"reel\") machinima tends to be linear and offers limited interactive storytelling; he sees more opportunities in machinima performed live and with audience interaction. In creating their improvisational comedy series \"On the Campaign Trail with Larry & Lenny Lumberjack\" and talk show \"Tra5hTa1k with ILL Will\", the ILL Clan blended real and virtual performance by creating the works on-stage and interacting with a live audience. In another combination of real and virtual worlds, Chris Burke's talk show \"This Spartan Life\" takes place in \"Halo 2\"s open multiplayer environment. There, others playing in earnest may attack the host or his interviewee. Although other virtual theatrical performances have taken place in chat rooms and multi-user dungeons, machinima adds \"cinematic camera work\". Previously, such virtual cinematic performances with live audience interaction were confined to research labs equipped with powerful computers.\n\nMachinima can be less expensive than other forms of filmmaking. Strange Company produced its feature-length machinima film \"BloodSpell\" for less than £10,000. Before using machinima, Burnie Burns and Matt Hullum of Rooster Teeth Productions spent US$9,000 to produce a live-action independent film; in contrast, the four Xbox game consoles used to make \"Red vs. Blue\" in 2005 cost $600. The low cost caused a product manager for Electronic Arts to compare machinima to the low-budget independent film \"The Blair Witch Project\", without the need for cameras and actors. Because these are seen as low barriers to entry, machinima has been called a \"democratization of filmmaking\". Berkeley weighs increased participation and a blurred line between producer and consumer against concerns that game copyrights limit commercialization and growth of machinima.\n\nComparatively, machinimists using pre-made virtual platforms like \"Second Life\" have indicated that their productions can be made quite successfully with no cost at all. Creators like Dutch director Chantal Harvey, producer of the 48 Hour Film Project Machinima sector, have created upwards of 200 films using the platform. Harvey's advocacy of the genre has resulted in the involvement of film director Peter Greenaway who served as a juror for the Machinima category and gave a keynote speech during the event.\n\nKelland, Morris, and Lloyd list four main methods of creating machinima. From simple to advanced, these are: relying on the game's AI to control most actions, digital puppetry, recamming, and precise scripting of actions. Although simple to produce, AI-dependent results are unpredictable, thus complicating the realization of a preconceived film script. For example, when Rooster Teeth produced \"The Strangerhood\" using \"The Sims 2\", a game that encourages the use of its AI, the group had to create multiple instances of each character to accommodate different moods. Individual instances were selected at different times to produce appropriate actions.\n\nIn digital puppetry, machinima creators become virtual actors; each crew member controls a character in real-time, as in a multiplayer game. The director can use built-in camera controls, if available. Otherwise, video is captured from the perspectives of one or more puppeteers who serve as camera operators. Puppetry allows for improvisation and offers controls familiar to gamers, but requires more personnel than the other methods and is less precise than scripted recordings. However, some games, such as the \"Halo\" series, (except for Halo PC and Custom Edition, which allow AI and custom objects and characters), allow filming only through puppetry. According to Marino, other disadvantages are the possibility of disruption when filming in an open multi-user environment and the temptation for puppeteers to play the game in earnest, littering the set with blood and dead bodies. However, Chris Burke intentionally hosts \"This Spartan Life\" in these unpredictable conditions, which are fundamental to the show. Other works filmed using puppetry are the ILL Clan's improvisational comedy series \"On the Campaign Trail with Larry & Lenny Lumberjack\" and Rooster Teeth Productions' \"Red vs. Blue\". In recamming, which builds on puppetry, actions are first recorded to a game engine's demo file format, not directly as video frames. Without re-enacting scenes, artists can then manipulate the demo files to add cameras, tweak timing and lighting, and change the surroundings. This technique is limited to the few engines and software tools that support it.\n\nA technique common in cut scenes of video games, scripting consists of giving precise directions to the game engine. A filmmaker can work alone this way, as J. Thaddeus \"Mindcrime\" Skubis did in creating the nearly four-hour \"The Seal of Nehahra\" (2000), the longest work of machinima at the time. However, perfecting scripts can be time-consuming. Unless what-you-see-is-what-you-get (WYSIWYG) editing is available, as in \"\", changes may need to be verified in additional runs, and non-linear editing may be difficult. In this respect, Kelland, Morris, and Lloyd compare scripting to stop-motion animation. Another disadvantage is that, depending on the game, scripting capabilities may be limited or unavailable. Matinee, a machinima software tool included with \"Unreal Tournament 2004\", popularized scripting in machinima.\n\nWhen \"Diary of a Camper\" was created, no software tools existed to edit demo files into films. Rangers clan member Eric \"ArchV\" Fowler wrote his own programs to reposition the camera and to splice footage from the \"Quake\" demo file. \"Quake\" movie editing software later appeared, but the use of conventional non-linear video editing software is now common. For example, Phil South inserted single, completely white frames into his work \"No Licence\" to enhance the visual impact of explosions. In the post-production of \"\", Rooster Teeth Productions added letterboxing with Adobe Premiere Pro to hide the camera player's head-up display.\n\nMachinima creators have used different methods to handle limited character expression. The most typical ways that amateur-style machinima gets around limitations of expression include taking advantage of speech bubbles seen above players' heads when speaking, relying on the visual matching between a character's voice and appearance, and finding methods available within the game itself. \"Garry's Mod\" and Source Filmmaker include the ability to manipulate characters and objects in real-time, though the former relies on community addons to take advantage of certain engine features, and the latter renders scenes using non-real-time effects. In the \"Halo\" video game series, helmets completely cover the characters' faces. To prevent confusion, Rooster Teeth's characters move slightly when speaking, a convention shared with anime. Some machinima creators use custom software. For example, Strange Company uses Take Over GL Face Skins to add more facial expressions to their characters filmed in BioWare's 2002 role-playing video game \"Neverwinter Nights\". Similarly, Atussa Simon used a \"library of faces\" for characters in \"The Battle of Xerxes\". In some cases, some game companies may provide such software; examples include Epic Games' Impersonator for \"Unreal Tournament 2004\" and Valve Corporation's Faceposer for Source games. Another solution is to blend in non-machinima elements, as nGame did by inserting painted characters with more expressive faces into its 1999 film \"Berlin Assassins\". It may be possible to point the camera elsewhere or employ other creative cinematography or acting. For example, Tristan Pope combined creative character and camera positioning with video editing to suggest sexual actions in his controversial film \"Not Just Another Love Story\".\n\nNew machinima filmmakers often want to use game-provided digital assets, but doing so raises legal issues. As derivative works, their films could violate copyright or be controlled by the assets' copyright holder, an arrangement that can be complicated by separate publishing and licensing rights. The software license agreement for \"The Movies\" stipulates that Activision, the game's publisher, owns \"any and all content within... Game Movies that was either supplied with the Program or otherwise made available... by Activision or its licensors...\" Some game companies provide software to modify their own games, and machinima makers often cite fair use as a defense, but the issue has never been tested in court. A potential problem with this defense is that many works, such as \"Red vs. Blue\", focus more on satire, which is not as explicitly protected by fair use as parody. Berkeley adds that, even if machinima artists use their own assets, their works could be ruled derivative if filmed in a proprietary engine. The risk inherent in a fair-use defense would cause most machinima artists simply to yield to a cease-and-desist order. The AMAS has attempted to negotiate solutions with video game companies, arguing that an open-source or reasonably priced alternative would emerge from an unfavorable situation. Unlike \"The Movies\", some dedicated machinima software programs, such as Reallusion's iClone, have licenses that avoid claiming ownership of users' films featuring bundled assets.\n\nGenerally, companies want to retain creative control over their intellectual properties and are wary of fan-created works, like fan fiction. However, because machinima provides free marketing, they have avoided a response demanding strict copyright enforcement. In 2003, Linden Lab was praised for changing license terms to allow users to retain ownership of works created in its virtual world \"Second Life\". Rooster Teeth initially tried to release \"Red vs. Blue\" unnoticed by \"Halo\"s owners because they feared that any communication would force them to end the project. However, Microsoft, Bungie's parent company at the time, contacted the group shortly after episode 2, and allowed them to continue without paying licensing fees.\n\nA case in which developer control was asserted involved Blizzard Entertainment's action against Tristan Pope's \"Not Just Another Love Story\". Blizzard's community managers encouraged users to post game movies and screenshots, but viewers complained that Pope's suggestion of sexual actions through creative camera and character positioning was pornographic. Citing the user license agreement, Blizzard closed discussion threads about the film and prohibited links to it. Although Pope accepted Blizzard's right to some control, he remained concerned about censorship of material that already existed in-game in some form. Discussion ensued about boundaries between MMORPG player and developer control. Lowood asserted that this controversy demonstrated that machinima could be a medium of negotiation for players.\n\nIn August 2007, Microsoft issued its Game Content Usage Rules, a license intended to address the legal status of machinima based on its games, including the \"Halo\" series. Microsoft intended the rules to be \"flexible\", and, because it was unilateral, the license was legally unable to reduce rights. However, machinima artists, such as Edgeworks Entertainment, protested the prohibitions on extending Microsoft's fictional universes (a common component of fan fiction) and on selling anything from sites hosting derivative works. Compounding the reaction was the license's statement, \"If you do any of these things, you can expect to hear from Microsoft's lawyers who will tell you that you have to stop distributing your items right away.\"\n\nSurprised by the negative feedback, Microsoft revised and reissued the license after discussion with Hugh Hancock and an attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The rules allow noncommercial use and distribution of works derived from Microsoft-owned game content, except audio effects and soundtracks. The license prohibits reverse engineering and material that is pornographic or otherwise \"objectionable\". On distribution, derivative works that elaborate on a game's fictional universe or story are automatically licensed to Microsoft and its business partners. This prevents legal problems if a fan and Microsoft independently conceive similar plots.\n\nA few weeks later, Blizzard Entertainment posted on WorldofWarcraft.com their \"Letter to the Machinimators of the World\", a license for noncommercial use of game content. It differs from Microsoft's declaration in that it addresses machinima specifically instead of general game-derived content, allows use of game audio if Blizzard can legally license it, requires derivative material to meet the Entertainment Software Rating Board's Teen content rating guideline, defines noncommercial use differently, and does not address extensions of fictional universes.\n\nHayes states that, although licensees' benefits are limited, the licenses reduce reliance on fair use regarding machinima. In turn, this recognition may reduce film festivals' concerns about copyright clearance; in an earlier analogous situation, festivals were concerned about documentary films until best practices for them were developed. According to Hayes, Microsoft and Blizzard helped themselves through their licenses because fan creations provide free publicity and are unlikely to harm sales. If the companies had instead sued for copyright infringement, defendants could have claimed estoppel or implied license because machinima had been unaddressed for a long time. Thus, these licenses secured their issuers' legal rights. Even though other companies, such as Electronic Arts, have encouraged machinima, they have avoided licensing it. Because of the involved legal complexity, they may prefer to under-enforce copyrights. Hayes believes that this legal uncertainty is a suboptimal solution and that, though limited and \"idiosyncratic\", the Microsoft and Blizzard licenses move towards an ideal video gaming industry standard for handling derivative works.\n\nJust as machinima can be the cause of legal dispute in copyright ownership and illegal use, it makes heavy use of intertextuality and raises the question of authorship. Machinima takes copyrighted property (such as characters in a game engine) and repurposes it to tell a story, but another common practice in machinima-making is to retell an existing story from a different medium in that engine.\n\nThis re-appropriation of established texts, resources, and artistic properties to tell a story or make a statement is an example of a semiotic phenomenon known as intertextuality or resemiosis. A more common term for this phenomenon is “parody”, but not all of these intertextual productions are intended for humor or satire, as demonstrated by the \"Few Good G-Men\" video. Furthermore, the argument of how well-protected machinima is under the guise of parody or satire is still highly debated; a piece of machinima may be reliant upon a protected property, but may not necessarily be making a statement about that property. Therefore, it is more accurate to refer to it simply as resemiosis, because it takes an artistic work and presents it in a new way, form, or medium. This resemiosis can be manifested in a number of ways. The machinima-maker can be considered an author who restructures the story and/or the world that the chosen game engine is built around. In the popular web series \"Red vs. Blue\", most of the storyline takes place within the game engine of \"\" and its subsequent sequels. \"\" has an extensive storyline already, but \"Red vs. Blue\" only ever makes mention of this storyline once in the first episode. Even after over 200 episodes of the show being broadcast onto the Internet since 2003, the only real similarities that can be drawn between \"Red vs. Blue\" and the game-world it takes place in are the character models, props, vehicles, and settings. Yet Burnie Burns and the machinima team at Rooster Teeth created an extensive storyline of their own using these game resources.\n\nThe ability to re-appropriate a game engine to film a video demonstrates intertextuality because it is an obvious example of art being a product of creation-through-manipulation rather than creation per se. The art historian Ernst Gombrich likened art to the \"manipulation of a vocabulary\" and this can be demonstrated in the creation of machinima. When using a game world to create a story, the author is influenced by the engine. For example, since so many video games are built around the concept of war, a significant portion of machinima films also take place in war-like environments.\n\nIntertextuality is further demonstrated in machinima not only in the re-appropriation of content but in artistic and communicatory techniques. Machinima by definition is a form of puppetry, and thus this new form of digital puppetry employs age-old techniques from the traditional artform. It is also, however, a form of filmmaking, and must employ filmmaking techniques such as camera angles and proper lighting. Some machinima takes place in online environments with participants, actors, and \"puppeteers\" working together from thousands of miles apart. This means other techniques born from long-distance communication must also be employed. Thus, techniques and practices that would normally never be used in conjunction with one another in the creation of an artistic work end up being used intertextually in the creation of machinima.\n\nAnother way that machinima demonstrates intertextuality is in its tendency to make frequent references to texts, works, and other media just like TV ads or humorous cartoons such as \"The Simpsons\" might do. For example, the machinima series \"Freeman's Mind\", created by Ross Scott, is filmed by taking a recording of Scott playing through the game \"Half Life\" as a player normally would and combining it with a voiceover (also recorded by Scott) to emulate an inner monologue of the normally voiceless protagonist Gordon Freeman. Scott portrays Freeman as a snarky, sociopathic character who makes frequent references to works and texts including science fiction, horror films, action movies, American history, and renowned novels such as Moby Dick. These references to works outside the game, often triggered by events within the game, are prime examples of the densely intertextual nature of machinima.\n\nNitsche and Lowood describe two methods of approaching machinima: starting from a video game and seeking a medium for expression or for documenting gameplay (\"inside-out\"), and starting outside a game and using it merely as animation tool (\"outside-in\"). Kelland, Morris, and Lloyd similarly distinguish between works that retain noticeable connections to games, and those closer to traditional animation. Belonging to the former category, gameplay and stunt machinima began in 1997 with \"Quake done Quick\". Although not the first speedrunners, its creators used external software to manipulate camera positions after recording, which, according to Lowood, elevated speedrunning \"from cyberathleticism to making movies\". Stunt machinima remains popular. Kelland, Morris, and Lloyd state that \"\" stunt videos offer a new way to look at the game, and compare \"Battlefield 1942\" machinima creators to the Harlem Globetrotters. Built-in features for video editing and post-recording camera positioning in \"Halo 3\" were expected to facilitate gameplay-based machinima. MMORPGs and other virtual worlds have been captured in documentary films, such as \"Miss Galaxies 2004\", a beauty pageant that took place in the virtual world of \"Star Wars Galaxies\". Footage was distributed in the cover disc of the August 2004 issue of \"PC Gamer\". Douglas Gayeton's \"Molotov Alva and His Search for the Creator\" documents the title character's interactions in \"Second Life\".\n\nGaming-related comedy offers another possible entry point for new machinima producers. Presented as five-minute sketches, many machinima comedies are analogous to Internet Flash animations. After Clan Undead's 1997 work \"Operation Bayshield\" built on the earliest \"Quake\" movies by introducing narrative conventions of linear media and sketch comedy reminiscent of the television show \"Saturday Night Live\", the New-York-based ILL Clan further developed the genre in machinima through works including \"Apartment Huntin'\" and \"Hardly Workin'\". \"Red vs. Blue: The Blood Gulch Chronicles\" chronicles a futile civil war over five seasons and 100 episodes. Marino wrote that although the series' humor was rooted in video games, strong writing and characters caused the series to \"transcend the typical gamer\". An example of a comedy film that targets a more general audience is Strange Company's \"Tum Raider\", produced for the BBC in 2004.\n\nMachinima has been used in music videos, of which the first documented example is Ken Thain's 2002 \"Rebel vs. Thug\", made in collaboration with Chuck D. For this, Thain used Quake2Max, a modification of \"Quake II\" that provided cel-shaded animation. The following year, Tommy Pallotta directed \"In the Waiting Line\" for the British group Zero 7. He told \"Computer Graphics World\", \"It probably would have been quicker to do the film in a 3D animated program. But now, we can reuse the assets in an improvisational way.\" Scenes of the game \"Postal 2\" can be seen in the music video of the Black Eyed Peas single \"Where Is the Love?\". In television, MTV features video game characters on its show \"Video Mods\". Among \"World of Warcraft\" players, dance and music videos became popular after dancing animations were discovered in the game.\n\nOthers use machinima in drama; these works may or may not retain signs of their video game provenance. \"Unreal Tournament\" is often used for science fiction and \"Battlefield 1942\" for war, but some artists subvert their chosen game's setting or completely detach their work from it. In 1999, Strange Company used \"Quake II\" in \"Eschaton: Nightfall\", a horror film based on the work of H. P. Lovecraft (although Quake I was also based on the Lovecraft lore). A later example is Damien Valentine's series \"Consanguinity\", made using BioWare's 2002 computer game \"Neverwinter Nights\" and based on the television series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". Another genre consists of experimental works that attempt to push the boundaries of game engines. One example, Fountainhead's \"Anna\", is a short film that focuses on the cycle of life and is reminiscent of \"Fantasia\". Other productions go farther and completely eschew a 3-D appearance. Friedrich Kirschner's \"The Tournament\" and \"The Journey\" deliberately appear hand-drawn, and Dead on Que's \"Fake Science\" resembles two-dimensional Eastern European modernist animation from the 1970s.\n\nAnother derivative genre termed \"machinima verite\", from cinéma vérité, seeks to add a documentary and additional realism to the machinima piece. L.M. Sabo's \"CATACLYSM\" achieves a machinima verite style through displaying and recapturing the machinima video with a low resolution black and white hand-held video camera to produce a shaky camera effect. Other element of cinéma vérité, such as longer takes, sweeping camera transitions, and jump cuts may be included to complete the effect.\n\nSome have used machinima to make political statements, often from left-wing perspectives. Alex Chan's take on the 2005 civil unrest in France, \"The French Democracy\", attained mainstream attention and inspired other machinima commentaries on American and British society. Horwatt deemed Thuyen Nguyen's 2006 \"An Unfair War\", a criticism of the Iraq War, similar in its attempt \"to speak for those who cannot\". Joshua Garrison mimicked Chan's \"political pseudo-documentary style\" in his \"Virginia Tech Massacre\", a controversial \"Halo 3\"–based re-enactment and explanation of the eponymous real-life events. More recently, \"War of Internet Addiction\" addressed internet censorship in China using \"World of Warcraft\".\n\nAfter the QML's Quake Movie Oscars, dedicated machinima awards did not reappear until the AMAS created the Mackies for its first Machinima Film Festival in 2002. The annual festival has become an important one for machinima creators. Ho Chee Yue, a founder of the marketing company AKQA, helped to organize the first festival for the Asia chapter of the AMAS in 2006. In 2007, the AMAS supported the first machinima festival held in Europe. In addition to these smaller ceremonies, Hugh Hancock of Strange Company worked to add an award for machinima to the more general Bitfilm Festival in 2003. Other general festivals that allow machinima include the Sundance Film Festival, the Florida Film Festival, and the New Media Film Festival. The Ottawa International Animation Festival opened a machinima category in 2004, but, citing the need for \"a certain level of excellence\", declined to award anything to the category's four entries that year.\n\nMachinima has been showcased in contests sponsored by game companies. Epic Games' popular Make Something Unreal contest included machinima that impressed event organizer Jeff Morris because of \"the quality of entries that really push the technology, that accomplish things that Epic never envisioned\". In December 2005, Blizzard Entertainment and Xfire, a gaming-focused instant messaging service, jointly sponsored a \"World of Warcraft\" machinima contest.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2050441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2050441", "title": "Marco Materazzi", "text": "Marco Materazzi\n\nMarco Materazzi, (; born 19 August 1973) is an Italian former professional footballer and manager.\n\nEarly in his career, Materazzi played with various Italian teams in Serie B and Serie C, and with Everton in the Premier League. He spent two periods with Perugia (1995–98 and 1999–2001) and signed for Internazionale in 2001 for €10 million. At club level, he won a number of major honors with Inter, including five Serie A league titles in a row from 2006 to 2010, one UEFA Champions League, one FIFA Club World Cup, four Coppa Italia titles, and the Supercoppa Italiana four times.\n\nMaterazzi earned 41 caps for Italy from his debut in 2001 until 2008, playing in two World Cups and two European Championships. He was one of the key players in the 2006 FIFA World Cup Final against France, as he scored Italy's goal and later, in extra time, he received a headbutt from Zinedine Zidane, who was punished with a red card. Italy then went on to win the World Cup in a penalty shoot-out, during which Materazzi scored again.\n\nA controversial and provocative figure in football, he was known for his very physical and aggressive style of play as a defender, as well as his tight marking and strong, harsh tackling, which led him to receive more than 60 yellow cards and 25 red cards throughout his playing career. Due to his temper, and his commitment to rash, heavy challenges, he has been involved in several altercations with other players during matches, drawing comparisons with retired defender Pasquale Bruno. \"The Times\" placed Materazzi at number 45 in their list of the 50 hardest football players in history.\n\nMaterazzi began his footballing career with the Lazio and then the Messina Peloro youth teams from 1990 to 1991. He spent his early career in the lower divisions of Italian football, with amateur side Tor di Quinto (1991–92), Serie C2 team Marsala (1993–94), and Serie C1 Trapani (1994–95), where he narrowly missed a historic promotion to Serie B after losing a promotion playoff to Gualdo. Serie B squad Perugia Calcio signed Materazzi for the first time in 1995, but he spent a part of the 1996–97 season in Serie C with Carpi.\n\nHe then spent 1998–99 with Everton, where he was sent off three times in just 27 games, and scored twice, against Middlesbrough in the league and Huddersfield Town in the League Cup.\n\nHe then returned to Perugia in 1999 and scored 12 goals, including 7 from penalties in the 2000–01 season, breaking Daniel Passarella's Serie A record of most goals by a defender in one season.\n\nMaterazzi was signed by Internazionale in July 2001 for €10 million. He took squad number 23 and made his competitive debut for the club on 26 August in the opening championship match against Perugia. Materazzi's first goal for Inter came only in his second appearance, netting inside 10 minutes in a 2–2 draw at Parma. He also played eight time in the season's UEFA Cup, with the debuting match coming on 20 September in the 3–0 win versus Romania's Brașov. \n\nMaterazzi played 23 matches in league, including the final decisive match versus Lazio which lost Inter the championship title; he was a protagonist of a controversy episode following the final whistle as he was included in a heated discussion with the opposite players which also went to physical confrontation. He was caught by the cameras shouting at Lazio captain Alessandro Nesta, saying: \"I won you the title\", in reference to Perugia's win over Juventus in 2000 which lead Lazio to the title.\n\nIn the following season, Materazzi made 33 appearances across all competitions, including 13 in UEFA Champions League, where he played his first match on 14 August 2002 in a goalless draw against Sporting CP. \n\nMaterazzi's 2003–04 season was highlighted by injuries, such as the one he suffered on 25 November during the 5–1 home loss to Arsenal in UEFA Champions League group stage which kept him out of action for two months. He was in the center of a controversy again in the beginning of 2004 for aggression towards Siena player Bruno Cirillo. This happened on 1 February in a match which was won 4–0 by Inter. Materazzi (who did not play in the match) confronted Cirillo in the dressing rooms and begun spewing insults towards him. He also punched him in the face, fracturing his lip. After the incident was denounced, the sports judge Maurizio Laudi suspended Materazzi until 29 March, meaning that he will miss eight club matches and one international match. In addition to his domestic suspension, Materazzi was also suspended by UEFA for two UEFA Cup games. Inter was also fined with €5,000. Materazzi later apologized for the incident, saying that he \"behaved badly\" and \"reacted in a bad way\", also adding that he would not appeal the suspension.\n\nIn July 2004, at the start of 2004–05 season, Inter bench was entrusted to manager Roberto Mancini, with whom – in the first season – Materazzi lost his place in the starting lineup. In the next season he played more, and was the only Italian to score a goal for the club that season. On 5 March 2006, Materazzi scored a 89th-minute header at Roma to rescue his side a point and to break the hosts' record of 11 consecutive victories. He finished the 2005–06 season by totaling 39 appearances across all competitions.\n\nMaterazzi signed a new contract in August 2006 which kept him at San Siro until June 2010. At the end of the year he was a nominee for UEFA Team of the Year along with teammate Fabio Grosso. The 2006–07 season saw him scoring 10 goals, thus being the top scoring defender of Serie A. He notably scored in the 4–3 win in Derby della Madonnina against Milan, an overhead kick versus Messina and a brace away to Siena on 23 April which won the club's 15th league title with five games remaining. For his performances, Materazzi was voted the Serie A Defender of the Year.\nMaterazzi missed the first part of 2007–08 season due to an injury suffered whilst on international duty which forced him to be sidelined until November 2007. Later in February of the following year, Materazzi gave a poor display in the first leg of 2007–08 UEFA Champions League first knockout round against Liverpool, receiving a red card in the 30th minute, as Inter lost 2–0 at Anfield. His performance was criticised by his teammates after the end of the match. Later on throughout the season, during a 2–2 draw against Siena, Materazzi argued with striker Julio Ricardo Cruz on who to take a penalty kick. Eventually it was Materazzi who took it but his attempt was easily saved by Alex Manninger. It was his first miss since 2001. The draw spoiled Inter's chances of winning the title with one game to spare. After the match, the choice to take the penalty was criticized by manager Roberto Mancini while Materazzi himself apologized, stating that it should have been Cruz the one to take it. Inter eventually won the championship for the third consecutive time after defeating Parma 2–0 in the last matchday with Materazzi playing full-90 minutes. He concluded the season with 23 Serie A appearances, 4 Coppa Italia appearances, 1 Supercoppa Italiana appearance and 3 UEFA Champions League appearances for a total of 33 appearances.\n\nThe summer of 2008 saw the arrival of Portuguese manager José Mourinho who did not saw Materazzi as the first choice in defence, relegating him to the bench. Apart from that, his season was also marred by injuries, which reduced his league tally to only 8 appearances. He scored his first UEFA Champions League goal on 4 November in a 3–3 draw at Anorthosis in the Group B matchday 4. Materazzi won his 4th championship on 17 May 2009 following Inter's 3–0 defeat of Siena. Despite playing rarely, he was still praised by president Massimo Moratti who said that Materazzi \"always played well whenever he was called upon last season\" while manager Mourinho stated that he wanted to have Materazzi in his team.\nIn June 2009, Materazzi was handed a new deal by Inter until June 2012. He was used sparingly during the 2009–10 season, making 20 appearances in all competitions. In January 2010, he underwent arthroscopic surgery to repair damage to the medial meniscus in his right knee which kept him sidelined for one month. Materazzi was an injury-time substitute for Inter in the 2010 UEFA Champions League Final against Bayern Munich, replacing Diego Milito who scored both of their goals in the 2–0 victory in Madrid. In addition to that, Inter also clinched the \"Scudetto\", for the fifth season in a row, and Coppa Italia, to complete the Treble.\n\nHe begun the 2010–11 season by coming on in the last minutes of a 3–1 home win over Roma in the Supercoppa Italiana match. Materazzi's first league match of the season came later in November where he started in the derby against Milan due to the absence of Walter Samuel; he conceded a penalty in 4th minute for fouling Zlatan Ibrahimović and was later sent to hospital after a receiving a kung-fu kick in the stomach by the Swede. Inter lost the match 1–0. Following the end of the match, manager Rafael Benítez calmed the situation by stating that Materazzi's injury \"doesn't seem serious\". He returend in action two weeks later by playing full-90 minutes in a 5–2 home win over Parma. In December, Materazzi was included in Inter's squad for 2010 FIFA Club World Cup, remaining on the bench as Inter won their 5th title of the year. \n\nMaterazzi left the club in July 2011 after not being offered a new contract, having played around 270 games for the club and winning 15 trophies, and shortly after, announced his retirement from the sport. He was later appointed in the role of ambassador to Inter. Later, Materazzi accused manager Leonardo of \"stabbed him in the back\" and the reason of his departure from Inter, and also threw accusations to president Massimo Moratti of not having defended him against Leonardo.\n\nOn 22 September 2014, Materazzi was signed as the player-manager of Chennaiyin FC in the inaugural season of the Indian Super League. Materazzi signed a two-season contract with Chennaiyin for $1 million (USD) every season. Materazzi did not choose himself to play in their opening match, a 2–1 victory at FC Goa on 15 October courtesy of a free kick from marquee player and former Brazil international Elano. Six days later in his first home game, Chennaiyin defeated the Kerala Blasters 2–1, but four days after that he lost for the first time, 1–4 to the Delhi Dynamos. In the club's fourth match of the season, he selected himself to play for the first time, starting in a 5–1 win over Mumbai City. On 28 November, he brought his former international defensive partner Alessandro Nesta out of retirement to play for Chennaiyin until the end of the season. Chennaiyin finished the 14-game regular season in first place in the league, with Materazzi having made 6 appearances. In the end-of-season play-offs, the team were eliminated in extra time in the semi-finals by the Kerala Blasters.\n\nAt the end of the 2015 season, in which Materazzi led Chennaiyin to the Indian Super League championship, his contract ended. After the conclusion of the 2016 season, it was announced that Materazzi would not return to the club for 2017.\n\nMaterazzi made his debut for the Italy national team on 25 April 2001, in a 1–0 friendly match victory against South Africa. He made two appearances in the qualifying campaign against Georgia and Hungary. In the final tournament of the 2002 FIFA World Cup, Materazzi was used as a reserve player to back up Alessandro Nesta and Fabio Cannavaro. He made only one appearance by coming on as a substitute for Nesta in the 2–1 loss to Croatia in the group stage but soon in the 90th minute Materazzi played a floating ball over the top from just over half way to Inzaghi but everyone missed the ball and it rolled in the back of the net but the goal was disallowed after referee Graham Poll claimed that Inzaghi had grabbed an opponent's shirt. Materazzi was later criticised for his defending on both of Croatia's goals during the match.\n\nDespite a long suspension with Inter, Materazzi was still called up by manager Giovanni Trapattoni for the UEFA Euro 2004, where he was on the bench for Italy's first two games but started in the final group game against Bulgaria in place of the suspended Fabio Cannavaro, as Italy came from behind to win 2–1; in the first half, Materazzi was judged to have allegedly fouled Dimitar Berbatov in the area, conceding a penalty, which Martin Petrov subsequently converted. Despite the win, Italy were eliminated in the first round on direct encounters, following a three-way five point tie with Denmark and Sweden.\n\nMaterazzi played his first match as captain for Italy on 17 November 2004 in a 1–0 friendly win over Finland in which he also received a yellow card. His second and final match as captain came in another friendly against Iceland on 30 March 2005 where he played in the first half.\n\nMaterazzi was included in the 23-man squad by manager Marcelo Lippi for the 2006 FIFA World Cup which was his third major tournament. He begun the tournament as a reserve player, but after Alessandro Nesta suffered an injury in the group match against the Czech Republic, Materazzi came on as his replacement and made an impact by scoring a goal, and was named Man of the Match. He received a red card in the round of 16 match against Australia for a foul on Mark Bresciano, which ended in a 1–0 win to the Italians, and was suspended for the quarter-final against Ukraine, which Italy won 3–0. In the final against France, Materazzi fouled Florent Malouda to concede a penalty, which Zinedine Zidane subsequently scored. He made another impact by scoring a goal to level the score, a header from a right sided corner by Andrea Pirlo. After the match went to extra-time, Materazzi and Zidane were involved in a confrontation in the 110th minute, where Materazzi verbally insulted Zinedine Zidane alongside tugging his shirt while Zidane attempted to walk away, which ended with Zidane head-butting Materazzi and receiving a red card. The game then continued to penalties. Materazzi scored Italy's second penalty as they defeated France 5–3 to claim their fourth FIFA World Cup. After the final, the confrontation resulted in a major controversy as Zidane accused Materazzi of insulting his sister and mother. Additionally, Materazzi claimed that after he had grabbed Zidane's jersey, Zidane sarcastically said to him \"If you want my shirt, I will give to you afterwards\". Materazzi then revealed that he replied, \"Preferisco la puttana di tua sorella\" (\"I would prefer your whore of a sister\"), which resulted in the head-butt. Three British tabloid newspapers, the \"Daily Star\", the \"Daily Mail\" and \"The Sun\", alleged that Materazzi had called Zidane \"the son of a terrorist whore.\" Materazzi took legal action against all three newspapers and the allegations were later withdrawn. FIFA later issued a CHF 5,000 fine and a two-match ban against Materazzi. Alongside striker Luca Toni, Materazzi was Italy's top scorer throughout the tournament with two goals; he also won 14 challenges throughout the competition.\n\nUnder Roberto Donadoni, Materazzi appeared consistently during the Euro 2008 qualifying campaign and became a starter after Alessandro Nesta's retirement. In the UEFA Euro 2008 tournament, he started in the 3–0 loss to the Netherlands but was substituted in the 54th minute in what would later prove to be his final appearance for Italy, as he was replaced later in the tournament by Giorgio Chiellini. Later, after Lippi's return, Materazzi was not called in the national team again. He totaled 41 appearances and 2 goals for Italy.\n\nAn aggressive, physical, and hard-tackling centre-back, who was also known for his tight marking of opponents, Materazzi was considered to be one of the best defenders of his generation, and was highly regarded by two of the world's most respected coaches, Marcello Lippi and José Mourinho, later becoming close friends with both managers. Materazzi was lauded by his managers in particular for being a goal threat as a defender, due to his outstanding aerial ability, which made him dangerous during set pieces. His prolific goalscoring allowed him to capture the record for most goals in a Serie A season by a defender, which was broken during the 2000–01 season. He was also an accurate set piece and penalty kick taker, with a powerful shot from distance. In addition to these attributes, he had solid technical skills and reliable distribution, and was known for frequently playing long balls to the strikers. During his time with Internazionale, he developed the nickname \"Matrix\".\n\nMarco Materazzi was born in Lecce, where his father, Giuseppe, a professional footballer, was playing for U.S. Lecce. Giuseppe was also a former football coach and manager of teams such as Pisa, Lazio, Sporting CP and Tianjin Teda. Materazzi's mother died when he was 15 years old. His sister, Monia married Maurizio Maestrelli, the son of former manager Tommaso Maestrelli; he died on 28 November 2011. His brother Matteo is a sports agent.\n\nAs stated by his father, Marco grew up a supporter of Lazio. In September 2007, he released his autobiography called \"Una vita da guerriero\" (A life as a warrior) published by journalists Andrea Elefante (from Gazzetta dello Sport) and Roberto De Ponti (from Corriere della Sera).\n\nMaterazzi was married on 23 June 1997 with Daniela, whom he has three children: Anna, Davide and Gianmarco. \n\nSource:\n\nSource:\n\"Italy score listed first, score column indicates score after each Materazzi goal.\"\n\nAll competitive league games (league and domestic cup) and international matches (including friendlies) are included.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51229482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51229482", "title": "Mattha Smith", "text": "Mattha Smith\n\nMatthew Smith (31 December 1897 – 16 May 1953) was a Scottish professional football forward who made over 340 appearances in the Scottish League for Kilmarnock and was captain of the club. After retiring from football, he coached at Ardrossan Winton Rovers and returned to Kilmarnock as a scout.\n\nKilmarnock\n"}
{"id": "28164829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28164829", "title": "Microbial consortium", "text": "Microbial consortium\n\nA microbial consortium is two or more microbial groups living symbiotically. Consortiums can be endosymbiotic or ectosymbiotic.\n\nThe concept of consortium was first introduced by Johannes Reinke in 1872. The term preceded to the term symbiosis that was introduced into biology some years later.\n\n"}
{"id": "33079948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33079948", "title": "Miss Baker", "text": "Miss Baker\n\nMiss Baker (1957 – November 29, 1984) was a squirrel monkey who in 1959 became, along with rhesus macaque Miss Able, one of the first two animals launched into space by the United States and safely returned.\n\nPrevious United States efforts at launching monkeys to space had met with the animals' demise from suffocation or parachute failure, and Soviet Union efforts had fared little better, to the chagrin of animal rights activists. The Soviet Union had recovered two dogs, the first mammals to be recovered from suborbital space flight, from an altitude of on July 22, 1951 and subsequently recovered more dogs. The United States had flown monkeys and mice by Aerobee rocket to heights below the edge of space beginning in 1951.\n\nThe squirrel monkey who was to become known as Miss Baker was purchased along with 25 other squirrel monkeys at a pet shop in Miami, Florida, and brought to the Naval Aviation Medical School in Pensacola. Fourteen of the candidates tolerated confinement for periods up to 24 hours, electrodes all over their bodies, and monitoring at all hours. Miss Baker \"stood out from the rest because of her intelligence and loving, docile manner\", relayed Colin Burgess and Chris Dubbs in their 2007 book ‘Animals In Space: From Research Rockets to the Space Shuttle.’ For this, and her apparent pleasure at being handled with tender loving care, she earned the nickname TLC.\n\nWith experiments imminent, the Army named their monkey \"Alpha,\" and the Navy followed with \"Bravo,\" names taken directly from the phonetic alphabet. Before flight, though, the names changed to the first letters of the antiquated Joint Army/Navy Phonetic Alphabet.\n\nMiss Baker wore a helmet lined with rubber and chamois leather plus a jacket for launch, in addition to a respiration meter affixed to her nose with model cement, and she was fitted into a snug capsule of shoebox size, 9¾ × 12½ × 6¾ inches (24.8 × 31.8 × 17.1 cm) insulated with rubber and fiberglass. Life support was an oxygen bottle with a pressure valve, and lithium hydroxide to absorb exhaled carbon dioxide and moisture.\n\nOn May 28, 1959, at 2:39 am, a Jupiter rocket lifted Miss Baker and Miss Able to an altitude of through an acceleration of 38 gs for a 16-minute flight which also included 9 minutes of weightlessness. The flight traveled downrange from the pad at Cape Canaveral launch complex 26B to the Atlantic Ocean near Puerto Rico where the capsule was recovered by USS \"Kiowa\".\n\nThe following table shows some characteristics of the monkeys on Jupiter AM-18 and the measurements taken during flight. Some of Able's measurements had data problems as indicated.\n\nAble and Baker were not alone on the flight. They were accompanied by \"Neurospora\"; samples of human blood; \"E. coli\"; onions; mustard and corn seeds; \"Drosophila\" pupae; yeast; and sea urchin eggs and sperm.\n\nAble died four days after the flight from a highly unusual cardiac fibrillation in reaction to anesthesia to remove electrodes. \"This is the type of anesthetic death every surgeon fears,\" said Colonel Robert Hullinghorst, deputy at Ft. Knox where the surgery took place, \"We don't know exactly why it occurs.\" An autopsy found no problems that may have contributed to her death. Able is stuffed and on display at the National Air and Space Museum.\n\nOwing to their successful return from space to the USS Kiowa (ATF-72) and their crew, Able and Baker appeared on the cover of \"Life\" magazine, June 15, 1959.\n\nIn 1962, Pensacola caretakers held a marriage ceremony to wed Miss Baker to Big George.\n\nMiss Baker lived at the Naval Aerospace Medical Center in Pensacola, Florida until 1971.\n\nIn 1971, Miss Baker moved to the U.S. Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama, where she entertained museum visitors and drew 100–150 letters a day from schoolchildren. The 1977 birthday celebrations brought balloons, camera flashes, and the regular fare of cottage cheese for Miss Baker and Big George.\n\nBig George predeceased Miss Baker on January 8, 1979, and three months later, Norman, from the Yerkes National Primate Research Center, became her second mate in a ceremony presided over by Alabama District Court judge Dan McCoy. Miss Baker refused to wear her white wedding train for the event, tearing it off after a few seconds.\n\nIn 1982, center director Ed Buckbee said, \"Baker delights visitors every day with her energy and antics with her husband Norman.\" Her birthday was celebrated within a few weeks of the actual day, on the anniversary of her flight, May 28 each year.\n\nIn celebration of the 25th anniversary of her spaceflight, Baker was treated to a rubber duck and, her favorite, strawberry gelatin with bananas, along with well-wishes from thousands of people.\nIn 1984, Miss Baker died of kidney failure at a clinic at Auburn University after attaining the record for oldest living squirrel monkey. She is buried on the grounds at the U.S. Space & Rocket Center. Her tombstone routinely has one or more bananas on top.\n"}
{"id": "3241774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3241774", "title": "Monster Rancher 4", "text": "Monster Rancher 4\n\nMonster Rancher 4 (known in Japan as ) is a monster breeding and management game that was released by Tecmo for the PlayStation 2 in 2003.\n\nLike the previous installments, this game involves the raising, breeding, and fighting of monsters. Monsters are created via a \"Saucer Stone\" regeneration system. Players must go to a Shrine, where they swap the Monster Rancher 4 disc with a CD, DVD, or another game disc. A monster is then generated from the data contained on that disc. Once a player regenerates a monster, they can raise it on a ranch, and train it to compete in battles. The limit for monsters depend on the size of their ranch but the maximum is 5 monsters.\n\nThe user's character (default: Phayne) stows away on a ship after being kicked out of the Elives School. He then meets a once famous FIMBA breeder, TeeTee. He is later offered a job running his own ranch. The original trainer assistant, Yuri, catches up with Phayne. When the Official Cup E is won, Yuri quits, and Cesare's (the shrine priest) daughter, Rio, becomes the trainer assistant. Rio is also revealed to be able to talk to monsters (reason explained later) and that is why she is shy and hated. The main character will begin using training gadgets, which run off geonyte (an energy found in spirit trees). The trainer's first monster will grow lonely. Eventually, three monsters will be permitted on the ranch. Rio will discover a cave (the Togle Caves) and Phayne will travel down it. On the first trip, he will discoveer a Life Tablet (a tablet which allows for a blueprint for a life training gadget). On the second trip, he and Rio will discover a saucer stone fragment, a Gaia Stone. Rio touches it and sees a terrifying image. When the breeder returns home, Pollocck informs them that there is a geonyte shortage. Phayne will travel into the cave once more, and at the end, they will find King Shiden, a raiden, who is the cause of the shortage. After defeating him, raidens will be unlocked, and breeder rank D will be achieved.\n\nAfter winning the Official Cup D, Phayne is given a boat. The boat allows him to travel to other places. He will travel to Ryuwn, the capital, and will apply for Ryuwn registration. This is unavailable. Phayne reunites with old school friends, Gram and Phylia, and meets her ailing grandma, Mauro. Phayne is sent on a mission to find healing mushrooms in the Togle Caves. After defeating Blobster, he receives the mushrooms. He returns them, and is then sent on a mission by Karnab (President of FIMBA) to find \"junk.\" You then find another Gaia Stone Fragment, and Rio sees another terrifying vision. After going back, he faces a Mogi, and receives the \"junk.\" He is then granted access to FIMBA battles, and is given a Breeder Rank C.\n\nAfter winning the Official Grade C, Phayne hears news of missing explorers in the Kalaragi Jungle, and travels to rescue them. You then face Don Mudlone, a Gaboo (reference to MR2), and, after defeating him, find out about monster \"alterations.\" Karnab asks you to come to FIMBA for a surprise (rank B) and you are told to go to Torble to find out about the alterations. You go to Torble to meet another school friend, Wit. He takes you to the University, where TeeTee is revealed to be his assistant. The next week, in Torble, you are granted access to the Torble (IMA) battles. You meet another friend, Deihl, and find him to be cruel to his monsters. Rio punches him in the face. Phayne declares that he will defeat him. You then revisit Wit. He gives you a magic training medal, a medal that enhances the effects of training. You win the Ofiicial Grade B, and decide to go to Vizley to get a teacher to speak to Deihl.\n\nYou go to Vizley and it is revealed why Phayne was expelled, but Mrs. Casa, Phayne's old teacher, refuses to speak to Deihl. You are granted Breeder Rank A for beating Deihl. You go to The Official Rank A defeat Wit. The trophy is made from a third Gaia Stone, and Rio once again sees a clearer, more terrifying vision. After a series of events, Phayne travels to the Promiass Ruins. On the first two trips, you see two inscriptions about a \"Dark Age\" from long ago. On a third trip, you face an all-knowing monster who knows why Rio can talk to monsters and what the vision means. After defeating him, the main character discovers that Rio was sealed in a saucer stone in the Dark Age, and that she led the battle against the \"Dark Lord,\" Xevion. The vision was of the Dark Age. Upon returning home, Cesare confronts Rio, and the two reach an understanding, and Rio accepts him as her father, though that is biologically incorrect. Phayne is granted S Rank, and discovers that the Tome of Black Arts, a book containing arts for monster strengthening, was stolen from the school library. After a chain of events, Phayne goes to the Kawrea Volcano. Rio finds the final piece of the Gaia Stone, and finally remembers herself from long ago. On their final journey, Rio, Phayne, and Teetee discover what happened that got Phayne expelled. In the heart of the volcano, Rio, Phayne, Wit, Teetee, and the monsters team up to beat Xevion. He blocks the exit. The four Gaia Stones join together and revive a Phoenix from long ago, Suzaku. She flies them out, and gives them a Fire Feather, which is used to revive a Phoenix. Elongated Passageways are opened in the adventure places, thus ending the storyline.\n\nSome breeds are new to this game. There are 34 main types of monsters, but two different monsters can be combined together to create subspecies, thus making 328 different species available.\n\nPlayers can house up to 5 monsters on their ranch at a time, thus allowing monster-to-monster friendships, tag-team, and group battles. Monsters that have been raised together for a long time will have a high affinity level, which describes how well the monsters get along with each other. Having high affinity is important for effective teamwork in battles.\n\nThis game implements the use of training gadgets, which allow the player to customize their monsters' stats. The player can acquire these gadgets as they progress through the game. They come in many different varieties and training levels. The higher level of training they are, the more space they will take up on the ranch, so the player has to choose wisely on which gadgets to use.\n\nIn addition to training their monster for battle, the player also has to raise it properly and make sure it has a balanced diet. The player must not be too strict with their monster, or it may become stressed and try to run away. They must also try not to spoil their monster too much, or it may become spoiled and not take its training or battling seriously. To avoid being too strict or too lenient with the monster, scold it and praise it according to how well, or how badly it did on its training, and make sure to feed it a balanced diet of foods, instead of only feeding it what it likes, or only feeding it a certain type of food.\n\nAfter the monsters reach a certain age, they can not be raised any further, and they cannot participate in any more battles. To avoid having all of the monsters retired at the same time, it is best to raise monsters of different ages.\n\nAfter raising training, and feeding their monsters, the player may compete them in competitions. Players compete in competitions to increase their battle rank, and to earn money and fame. Once the player has increased their rank, they may compete in higher-ranked competitions. Winning competitions is important if the player wants to become a highly acclaimed breeder.\n\nThe monsters fight using skills that they have acquired through training. They can use their skills with Guts, indicated by a meter on the battle screen. If there aren't enough \nGuts to use a certain skill, then the player has to wait until the Guts meter builds up again as the battle goes on. The battle will last until the life of one of the monsters is depleted, or until time runs out.\n\nOne of the features of the battle system is using counter-attacks, which can substantially affect the outcome of battle. To use a counter-attack, hold down the L2 button and press a skill button. The skill button chosen must be the same skill that the opponent uses. If executed properly and with perfect timing, then the monster will successfully counter the opponent's attack, both saving itself from damage, and inflicting damage on its opponent.\n\nOne of the features of Monster Rancher 4 is exploring different lands for rare items and to discover special monster breeds. The player's team of monsters accompanies them on these journeys, battling stray monsters and the \"Boss\" monster of each area. These battles can help raise the monsters' experience. At the beginning of the game, the player can only visit a limited number of areas, but as they progress through the game, they will be able to visit more advanced and dangerous areas. Some areas have special rare monster breeds that cannot be found anywhere else, and once the player finds these rare monsters, they will be able to regenerate them and raise them on their ranch. The four different lands you can eventually explore are the togle caves, the kalaragi jungle, the promiass ruins, and the volcano.\n\n\nAfter Complete the games through. Load game and wait until pass 2 weeks. Dr.Karnab will tell you that he discover the secret way from all Adventure mode. After that, you can go to adventure and meet Rank S Monster by right click (+ Mode)\n\nThe game received \"generally favorable reviews\" according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\nIGN ranked it as the 88th best PlayStation 2 game. The staff praised its improvements over its predecessors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1847817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1847817", "title": "Nancy Benoit", "text": "Nancy Benoit\n\nNancy Elizabeth Benoit (née Toffoloni, formerly Daus and Sullivan; May 17, 1964 – June 22, 2007) was an American professional wrestling valet and model. She was best known for her appearances with Extreme Championship Wrestling and World Championship Wrestling in the mid-1990s under the ring name Woman.\n\nOn June 22–23, 2007, she and then her son Daniel were murdered by her husband, wrestler Chris Benoit, who committed suicide on June 24, 2007.\n\nAfter graduating DeLand High School, Nancy got a job answering phones at State Farm Insurance. When George Napolitano needed a beautiful young girl for the cover of the June 1984 edition of the pro-wrestling magazine \"Wrestling All Stars\", fellow photographer Bill Otten suggested the 20-year-old Nancy Toffoloni Daus for the role. Nancy, who had worked as a model, often sat alongside her then-husband Jim. She had also been selling programs at the Orlando shows and appeared as Para in the old \"Apartment Wrestling\" features. It was on this shoot where she met Kevin Sullivan, who eventually wanted her to be a part of his wrestling entourage. After months of convincing, Nancy finally became an on-air valet, taking the ring name \"Fallen Angel\". \n\nShe made her in-ring debut on June 30, 1984 in Miami, Florida for Florida Championship Wrestling.\n\nShe became a part of Kevin Sullivan's stable of kayfabe \"Satanists\", which also included wrestlers The Lock, Luna Vachon, The Purple Haze, and Sir Oliver Humperdink. Nancy and Kevin Sullivan traveled throughout the United States using the \"Satanist\" gimmick for promotions such as Angelo Savoldi's ICW and Southwest Championship Wrestling. The two married in 1985.\n\nShe first appeared in WCW as a \"fan\" of Rick Steiner named Robin Green, wearing a Steiner T-shirt and large glasses. She would sit in the audience and would interact with Steiner whenever he appeared. She eventually turned on him, aligning herself with Kevin Sullivan and adopting the name Woman and became the manager of Doom (Butch Reed and Ron Simmons). After leaving Doom, she aligned herself with Ric Flair and the Four Horsemen.\n\nIn late 1993, Sullivan and Nancy joined the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania-based promotion Extreme Championship Wrestling, where Nancy reverted to the ring name \"Woman\". In December 1993, Sullivan and The Tazmaniac won the ECW Tag Team Championship. They held the championship until March 1994, when they were defeated by The Public Enemy.\n\nAfter Sullivan left ECW in spring 1994, Woman began managing The Sandman. The Sandman's character was estranged from his wife and valet, Peaches, who had left him after The Sandman accidentally struck her during a match while temporarily blinded. Woman drove a wedge between The Sandman and Peaches, convincing him that Peaches was cheating on him with Tommy Cairo. In keeping with The Sandman's character, Woman would open his beers and light his cigarettes prior to matches. She began carrying a Singapore cane with which she would strike The Sandman's opponents. At \"When Worlds Collide\" on May 14, 1994, Woman and The Sandman lost to Cairo and Peaches in a Singapore Cane match, after which Peaches caned The Sandman in the groin until Woman threw salt in her eyes, enabling The Sandman to regroup and cane Cairo and Peaches.\n\nIn mid-1994, The Sandman began feuding with Tommy Dreamer after he kissed Woman. The feud culminated in an \"I Quit\" match on October 1, 1994, during which The Sandman was seemingly blinded when Dreamer pushed a lit cigarette into his eye and then caned him in the face. Following the bout, Woman announced that she was leaving The Sandman as he was now \"useless\". After Tommy Cairo mocked The Sandman, a guilt-stricken Dreamer challenged him to a match at November to Remember on November 5, 1994. At the same event, Peaches attempted to reconcile with The Sandman. Woman interrupted the reconciliation, caning Peaches and threatening The Sandman. After Dreamer came to the ring to stop Woman, The Sandman revealed that he was not in fact blinded and attacked Dreamer, with his estrangement from Woman a ploy to pit Dreamer and Cairo against one another.\n\nIn April 1995, Woman again left The Sandman, aligning herself with Shane Douglas. At Hostile City Showdown on April 15, 1995, she helped The Sandman defeat Douglas for his second ECW World Heavyweight Championship by striking him in the knee with a Singapore cane, revealing the turn to have been another ruse.\n\nFollowing The Sandman's victory, Woman began carrying the ECW World Heavyweight Championship to ringside. Throughout mid-1995, she helped The Sandman defend his championship in a series of bouts with Cactus Jack. In September 1995, she began also managing The Sandman's ally, ECW World Television Champion 2 Cold Scorpio. In late 1995, The Sandman began feuding with Mikey Whipwreck, during which a controversial storyline began in which Woman became visibly aroused while watching The Sandman cane Whipwreck. The Sandman's reign lasted until October 28, 1995, when he lost to Whipwreck in a ladder match after Stunning Steve Austin prevented Woman from interfering.\n\nOn October 28, 1995, 2 Cold Scorpio defeated Rocco Rock in a singles bout to win the ECW World Tag Team Championship, then selected The Sandman as his partner. The Sandman regained the ECW World Heavyweight Championship in a three-way dance with Whipwreck and Austin at December to Dismember on December 9, 1995, giving Woman control of all three championships.\n\nOn December 29, 1995 at Holiday Hell, Mikey Whipwreck defeated 2 Cold Scorpio in a singles match with the ECW World Tag Team Championship on the line. The Sandman's third reign as ECW World Heavyweight Champion lasted until January 27, 1996, when he lost to Raven. On the January 27, 1996 episode of \"ECW Hardcore TV\", Woman announced that she was returning to World Championship Wrestling, parting ways with The Sandman and 2 Cold Scorpio.\n\nWoman made her return to WCW on the January 22, 1996 episode of \"WCW Monday Nitro\" as one of many women who stood in the aisle and waved as Hulk Hogan and Randy Savage came to the ring. On the February 5 episode of \"Nitro\" she turned on Savage during his match with Chris Benoit and rejoined Flair, Arn Anderson, Brian Pillman, and Benoit in the then-current incarnation of the Four Horsemen. Miss Elizabeth also managed the stable.\n\nIn 1996, Pillman had left the Horsemen, but they added Steve McMichael and his wife Debra in June, which didn't sit well with Woman. In her next angle, the two bickered, not getting along in general. The Four Horsemen were often given interview time on \"Nitro\" and when it came time for Debra to speak on the mic, she'd often go into a soliloquy regarding Woman's looks and fashion sense — usually when the two weren't within the vicinity of each other. Despite the heavy tension, the two managers never had a physical altercation.\n\nAt the same time, she started an on-screen relationship with Benoit, who at the time was involved in a feud with her real-life husband, Kevin Sullivan. On December 7, on \"WCW Saturday Night\", during a post-match interview with Sullivan, a home movie of the couple canoodling in a kitchen was played in front of him. Woman taunted Sullivan by saying, \"You can't find me\" and \"I'm my own woman,\" while Benoit added: \"You consider yourself the master of human chess. Well, my bishop just took your queen\". After the video, Sullivan stood there speechless, and his manager Jimmy Hart led him off stage. This feud between Benoit and Sullivan saw Woman clashing with Sullivan's then-valet Jacquelyn at ringside. In one match, the two ladies were strapped together, took shots at each other, and used the strap connecting them as a weapon against the men.\n\nEventually, the Benoit-Nancy on-screen relationship developed into a real-life affair off-screen. Because of this, it is often joked that 'Kevin Sullivan booked his own divorce.' The two were indeed divorced in 1997. What's more, Sullivan lost a retirement match to Benoit. His intent had been to retire from in-ring action and focus on booking.\n\nNancy's final WCW appearance (and professional wrestling appearance as Woman) took place on May 26, 1997 on \"Monday Nitro\" as she accompanied Benoit to the ring for a confrontation with Jimmy Hart regarding the whereabouts of Sullivan, who wasn't in the arena. On the following week's show, Benoit came alone to ringside without her by his side. After managing him for a little over half a year, no reason was given for Woman's sudden disappearance, and she was never mentioned on WCW programming again.\n\nBefore her marriage to Kevin Sullivan in 1985, Nancy had previously been married to and divorced from Jim Daus.\n\nIn early 1997, while Nancy was married to Sullivan, she was having an extramarital affair with Chris Benoit. Nancy and Benoit became engaged later in 1997 after her divorce from Sullivan, although Benoit referred to Nancy as only his fiancée even after they were married. She managed her husband's career from their home in Atlanta.\n\nShe gave birth to their son Daniel Christopher Benoit on February 25, 2000. Nancy married Chris Benoit on November 23, 2000. However, in May 2003, she filed for divorce, citing the marriage as \"irrevocably broken\" and alleging \"cruel treatment.\" She dropped the suit in August 2003, as well as a restraining order filed on her husband.\n\nIn December 2005, Nancy had back and neck fusion surgery with Lloyd Youngblood, the same surgeon who had previously done a 3–hour neck operation on Nancy's husband Chris on June 28, 2001.\n\nAfter Nancy's death in 2007, \"Hustler\" published nude photographs of Nancy from a shoot taken when Nancy was 20 years old. The length of time between the events caused controversy, causing critics to claim that Hustler owner Larry Flynt was attempting to capitalize on the event. The family of Nancy Benoit took legal action against Hustler. The appellate court ruled that, \"The photographs published by [Flynt] neither relate to the incident of public concern conceptually [the murders] nor correspond with the time period during which Benoit was rendered, against her will, the subject of public scrutiny\".\n\nOn June 25, 2007 Benoit, her husband Chris, and their son Daniel were found dead in their home in suburban Atlanta at around 2:30 p.m. It first was reported by the WWE Mobile Alerts service and posted to their official website soon after.\n\nLieutenant Tommy Pope of the Fayette County Sheriff's Department told \"ABC News\" it was being investigated as a double murder-suicide, and the police were not searching for any suspects outside of the house, as the instruments of death were located at the scene of the crime.\n\nDuring a press conference on June 26, Fayette County District Attorney Scott Ballard reported that Chris Benoit had killed his wife and son and committed suicide. A Bible was left by Nancy's body, and she died of asphyxiation. She had bruises on her back and stomach consistent with an attacker pressing a knee into her back while pulling on a cord around her neck. Daniel also died of asphyxiation, without signs of restraint. He had internal injuries to the throat area, but no bruises, indicating he may have been killed by a choke. Chris killed Nancy on Friday, Daniel on Saturday, then asphyxiated himself with the cord of a weight machine in his basement on Sunday.\n\nA memorial for Nancy and Daniel took place in Daytona Beach, Florida, on July 14, 2007. Both were cremated and their ashes placed in starfish-shaped urns for Nancy's family. Chris was also cremated, but what was done with his ashes is not public knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "39707220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39707220", "title": "National Maternity Hospital, Dublin", "text": "National Maternity Hospital, Dublin\n\nThe National Maternity Hospital, Holles Street, Dublin, popularly known as Holles Street Hospital, is the largest maternity hospital in Ireland. Established through charitable donations in 1894, the hospital delivers over 10,000 babies per year. It is the national referral centre for complicated pregnancies, premature and sick infants. The main hospital building at Holles Street dates to the 1930s, but the complex has seen little substantial expansion in the last half-century, while the number of births it handles has increased by 50 per cent in the last two decades.\n\nThe hospital is located at the eastern corner of Merrion Square, at its junction with Holles Street and Lower Mount Street.\n\nIn 1903 the Hospital received a Royal Charter, as had the other maternity hospitals in Dublin. Holles Street was the first hospital to benefit from the Irish Hospitals' Sweepstake which funded extensive redevelopment in the 1930s, In 1936 Antrim House on Merrion Square, was demolished to enable the development of the Hospital. Also in the 1930s the governance was altered specifying the Archbishop of Dublin (or a representative) as Chair of the board; the Lord Mayor of Dublin; and two City Councillors. The Minister of Health nominates two other members of the board.\n\nIn 1998 Holles Street set up the \"Domino\" (Domiciliary Care In and Out of Hospital) and Home birth scheme through its team of community midwives.\n\nList of former Masters:\n\n1885-1893 William Roe\n1894-1908 P J Barry\n1909-1922 A J Horne\n1923 A J Horne\n1924-1931 P T McArdle\n1932-1941 J F Cunningham\n1942-1948 Alex W Spain\n1949-1955 Arthur P Barry\n1956-1962 Charles F V Coyle\n1963-1969 Kieran O’Driscoll\n1970-1976 Declan J Meagher\n1977-1983 Dermot W MacDonnell\n1984-1990 John M Stronge\n1991-1997 Peter Boylan\n1998-2004 Declan Keane\n2005-2011 Michael Robson\n2012- Rhona Mahony. \nShane Higgins has been selected to succeed Rhona Mahony in 2019.\n\nThe National Maternity Hospital Foundation is a charity which raises funds for a number of projects in the Holles St. Hospital, with special emphasis on the neo-natal intensive care unit. Fun runs, Golf Classics and Fashion Shows are examples of some of the events used fund raising.\n\nThe Linen Guild was established in 1912. It is a charity to help mothers and babies in extreme poverty in Dublin. Its aim in the early years was to ensure no baby left hospital without a layette of night clothes, woollen jacket, nappies and a Foxford woollen blanket. Today its aim is to raise funds, for those mothers in need of financial assistance. (see also Maternity package.)\n\nElizabeth O'Farrell a member of Cumann na mBan, carried the white flag delivering the surrender in the Easter Rising of 1916. She became a midwife, training and working in Holles Street. The annual award for academic excellence in midwifery is named in her honour.\n\nThe hospital is the setting for the 'Oxen of the Sun' episode of James Joyce's novel \"Ulysses\" (1922).\n\nIn May 2013 it was announced that the hospital would relocate to the site of St. Vincent's University Hospital, Elm Park, a hospital founded in 1834 on by Mother Mary Aikenhead, foundress of the order Religious Sisters of Charity.\n\nThe new hospital is projected to cost €300 million, and be paid for by the Irish state. The decision to give the ownership of the hospital to its founders, the Sisters of Charity (an order of Roman Catholic nuns) caused controversy. The Sisters of Charity were involved in scandals about abuse related to the Magdalene Laundries in Ireland. The Citizens' Assembly delivered a report about the Eighth Amendment and Irish abortion law, and the controversy about the Bon Secours Mother and Baby Home in Tuam, County Galway. This hospital transfer is being used to talk about the role of the Catholic Church in Ireland today.\n\nIn April Dr. Peter Boylan, one of Ireland's most respected obstetricians, resigned from the board over influence of the Sisters on the new hospital. a petition to oppose their becoming the sole owners had been signed by more than 100,000 people. A protest of 200 people took place outside the Department of Health on 20 April 2017, and a protest in Limerick.\n\nThe master of the National Maternity Hospital, Rhona Mahony stated that the hospital would be independent and \"the nuns will not be running this hospital, it will not be under Catholic ethos. It will be completely independent\", and has privately complained that \"the feminists are going to unravel this fantastic hospital for women\".\n\nThe Bishop of Elphin, Kevin Doran said that the Religious Sisters of Charity would have to obey the rules of the Roman Catholic church if they become owners of the National Maternity Hospital, and to follow teachings on \"the value of human life and the dignity and the ultimate destiny of the human person\".\n\nOn 29 May 2017, in response to weeks of pressure and public outrage, the Sisters of Charity announced that they were ending their role in St Vincent's Healthcare Group and would not be involved in the ownership or management of the new hospital; the two sisters on the board resigned.\n"}
{"id": "59108875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59108875", "title": "Network of agents (Wikalah)", "text": "Network of agents (Wikalah)\n\nThe Deputies or Wikalah was a social, religious and economic institution that was active from Ja'far al-Sadiq's time to end of the Minor Occultation until 941 CE. Wikalah was responsible for the made relation between imams and Shia and collect religious taxes.\nThe meaning of word wikalah that mean of ours is wikalah in Arabic means to let someone perform duties on behalf of someone especially when someone cannot accomplish his duties by himself.\nIn the other hands, wikalah in terms of jurisprudence is someone choose someone else as his agent who that someone has the right to interfere in Decision making and approving a Duty or to be the second person who can interfere in His affairs.\nAfter the above definition, it can be seen that the wikalah are used when a person is unable to perform his duties by himself for reasons such as position and necessities and Imamas could not communicate with Shia by direct and usual ways. \nThe Shia Imams frequently had to deal with persecution and sometimes resorted to the practice of taqiyya, a form of religious dissimulation, for protection .\nAccording to the critical situation of the Imams in this era,Imams was looking for a way to make connection with shia.Often deputies were acting Secretly from the Abbasid Caliphs and in some cases, they did not know that they were deputies of the Imams and work for them. \nThe network of agents (Wikalah) was established in the time of Ja'far al-Sadiq and during the time was being Organized as far as it reached to the peak of its efficiency in the time of Hasan al-Askari and then minor occultation.The function of this system is shown in letters of instruction of the Al-Hadi.According to Jassim M. Hussain and Abdulaziz Sachedina, deputies were responsible for managing the society. Jassim M. Hussain said: \"Gradually the leadership of the Wikalah became the only authority which could determine and prove the legitimacy of the new Imam.\"\n\nFor example, the ninth Imam, al‑Jawad said to the head of his deputies about installing Al-Hadi as next Imam. \n\nThe Four Deputies or Gates (), in Twelver Shia Islam, were the four individuals who served as messengers between the community and the twelfth and final Imam, upon his going into the Minor Occultation. The deputies are also referred to with the Arabic terms Safir (emissary), Na'ib (deputy) or Wakil (advocate).\n\nTwelver tradition holds that four deputies acted in succession to one another from 873–941 CE:\n\n\nThe Major Occultation began following the death of the last deputy and, according the Shia doctrine, will continue until the return of the Mahdi.\nWikalah were responsible to made the relation between imams and Shia and collect religious taxes (Khums, Zakat, etc.). But next to it were responsible to guide the Shia and delivered letters containing religious questions. More importantly, they were responsible for the introduction of the next Imam after the death of the previous Imam.\n"}
{"id": "7373749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7373749", "title": "Orrgo", "text": "Orrgo\n\nOrrgo is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nOrrgo first appeared in \"Strange Tales\" vol. 1 #90 and was created by Jack Kirby.\n\nAs part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\", Orrgo appears in \"Howling Commandos of S.H.I.E.L.D.\"\n\nOrrgo is a 25–30 ft. extraterrestrial \"space god\", who arrived on Earth and has tried to conquer it many times in the past. He arrived on Earth to display his superior powers over the humans. With his abilities, Orrgo took over the world quickly. With the human race under his mental domination, Orrgo went back to the circus where it first arrived and went to sleep. A circus gorilla named Jojo realized that it was the reason that it was not being fed. Jojo escaped from its cage and killed Orrgo. The human race was then freed from Orrgo's control as the rest of Orrgo's kind left thinking that the humans have defeated Orrgo.\n\nThe Headmen later stole the God from Beyond from the museum and used it to summon Orrgo.\n\nThe Headmen and MODOK summoned Orrgo using the God from Beyond statue. Hellcat, Nighthawk, and Valkyrie of the Defenders fought Orrgo only to be defeated by him. Orrgo then went on to attack the city. After making volcanoes erupt, cities levitate, and populated areas burst into flames, Orrgo took control of the minds of Earth's population. The Headmen, MODOK, and the Defenders were not affected because they came in contact with the God from Beyond. When the Defenders attacked the Headmen's base, they ordered Orrgo to summon a supervillain army to fight them. While Doctor Strange, Hulk, Namor, and Silver Surfer were busy fighting the villains, Hellcat, Nighthawk, and Valkyrie enter the base of the Headmen as Nighthawk seized the God from Beyond. With the God from Beyond in their possession, the Defenders ordered Orrgo to undo the damage that it caused. With the damage undone and the supervillains teleported back to where they came from, Doctor Strange stated that they could banish all evil from Earth. Hellcat broke the God from Beyond stating that it would be a violation of the free will to do such a thing. Upon being freed, Orrgo thought for itself again and threatened to devastate the planet. Hellcat reminded Orrgo that his race has always been defeated by the humans and asked if he really wanted to fight them. Orrgo decides to leave Earth and return when the humans are extinct.\n\nThrough unknown means, Orrgo was captured by S.H.I.E.L.D. and placed in the Howling Commandos Monster Force.\n\nOrrgo appears as a member of S.T.A.K.E., a S.H.I.E.L.D. division dealing with the supernatural. His commander is Dum Dum Dugan, who lives on in a highly advanced Life Model Decoy body.\n\nAs part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\" event, Orrgo appears as a member of S.T.A.K.E.'s Howling Commandos. Due to Orrgo's enormous size, he is not a field member of the team, but is used as technological support and communications. He enjoys chaotic events. Despite the very nature of many of his teammates, Orggo does not believe in the supernatural.\n\nDuring the \"\" storyline, Orrgo was an inmate of Pleasant Hill, a gated community established by S.H.I.E.L.D. It is later revealed that Orrgo ended up in Pleasant Hill after Dr. Paul Kraye caught him going through his files. He alerted Maria Hill claiming that Orrgo went rogue and Orrgo was imprisoned at Pleasant Hill, where he was turned into a dog by Kobik. This led the Life Model Decoy of Dum Dum Dugan into finding Pleasant Hill and leading the Howling Commandos there in order to rescue Orrgo. Orrgo is rescued as the group is transported back to S.T.A.K.E. HQ by Kobik. Once back at S.T.A.K.E. HQ, Orrgo detects that Paul Kraye has released all the inmates there.\n\nOrrgo was with the Howling Commandos at the time when they help Old Man Logan rescue Jubilee from Dracula.\n\nDuring the \"Monsters Unleashed\" storyline, Orrgo is among the monsters that helped to fight the Leviathon Tide.\n\nAside from his superhuman strength, Orrgo has great mental powers that seem to alter reality. He also possesses powerful lungs as he was able to blow people off their feet. He also seems to have some manner of freezing abilities.\n\nIn the \"Marvel Adventures\" continuity, Orrgo is shown to be roughly the size of the Thing and continually boasts that he has \"amazing mental powers\". Immediately after a battle with the Fantastic Four, Orrgo gains diplomatic immunity and shows up to judge a beauty contest where he proceeds to get into an argument with Ben over their terms of 'beauty'. Eventually Sue discovers through one of the contestants, Chili Storm, that the security team are actually agents of A.I.M. and are looking to steal Orrgo's technology. The Four aid Orrgo in battling the agents before being stopped by Orrgo's powers. Orrgo then orders the agents to get jobs at a fast food restaurant, which Johnny calls cruel. Afterwards, Chili chooses to go out with Orrgo which he considers his revenge on Ben from an earlier fight.\n\nOrrgo appears as a boss and recruitable character in the mobile game \"Marvel Avengers Academy\" during the limited \"Monsters Unleashed!\" event, voiced by Scott Montiel. Writer Allen Warner praised his \"goofy, crazy, over-the-top attitude and power set that make[s] him a great fit for the game, and perfect for an event that features a red dinosaur fighting a dragon from outer space\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24865822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24865822", "title": "Pamela Weston", "text": "Pamela Weston\n\nPamela Theodora Weston (17 October 1921 – 9 September 2009) was a British clarinetist, teacher and writer.\n\nBorn in London, she attended Priors Field School. Following two years at the Royal Academy of Music she won a scholarship to the Guildhall School of Music before studying privately with the noted clarinetist Frederick Thurston. She was a professor of clarinet at the Guildhall from 1951 until 1969. She organised the International Clarinet Association Congress in 1984, the first ever held in the United Kingdom.\n\nWeston's legacy continues in the form of a scholarship for clarinet research at doctoral level, available from the Royal College of Music, recognising the institution's pre-emininence in this area, across both practice and theory.\nHer first book, \"Clarinet Virtuosi of the Past\", published in 1971, was followed by \"The Clarinet Teacher's Companion\" (1976), \"More Clarinet Virtuosi of the Past\" (1977), \"Clarinet Virtuosi of Today\" (1989) and \"Yesterday's Clarinettists: A Sequel\" (2002). Weston also published numberous articles in professional journals associated with the clarinet, both in the UK and abroad.\n\nSuffering in her last years from debilitating myalgic encephalomyelitis, she travelled to Switzerland to undertake an assisted suicide at the age of 87 in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "431232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431232", "title": "Pokémon Colosseum", "text": "Pokémon Colosseum\n\nPokémon Colosseum is a role-playing video game developed by Genius Sonority, published by The Pokémon Company and distributed by Nintendo as part of the \"Pokémon\" series. It was released for the GameCube on November 21, 2003, in Japan; March 22, 2004, in North America; and May 14, 2004, in Europe. Unlike previous titles, the game does not feature random encounters with Pokémon; instead, the player can steal (\"snag\") the Pokémon of other Pokémon Trainers. The game also features several battle modes for single-player and multiplayer gameplay.\n\nThe game is set in the desertous region of Orre. The player protagonist is Wes, a former member of Team Snagem. Throughout the game, the player rescues \"Shadow Pokémon\"—Pokémon who have had their hearts darkened by Team Cipher, an antagonistic organization—via snagging. Rui, a non-player character, serves as Wes's sidekick and identifies Shadow Pokémon.\n\n\"Pokémon Colosseum\" was exhibited at E3 2003. North American pre-orders were packaged with a bonus disc that allows the player to download the Pokémon Jirachi. Upon release, the game was generally well-received, with praise directed at its graphics and music. It was a commercial success, with 1.15 million copies sold in the United States and 656,270 in Japan.\n\n\"Pokémon Colosseum\" is a 3D role-playing game viewed from a third-person perspective. The player, controlling a Pokémon Trainer named Wes (default name), moves through various towns and other locations (traversed using a type of one-wheeled motorcycle), battling enemy Trainers and completing quests. Items are purchased at \"Pokémon Mart\" locations using the game's currency, \"Pokémon Dollars\" (). When a battle starts, the screen switches to a turn-based interface where the player's and enemies' Pokémon fight. Most battles are of the \"double battle\" format, which means two Pokémon on each side at one time. However, each Trainer can carry up to six Pokémon at one time, so once a Pokémon is defeated, his or her Trainer must switch out another one unless no more are left. Battles are also conducted at \"Colosseums\" in several cities.\n\nUnlike most \"Pokémon\" games, \"Colosseum\" does not feature random encounters. The player begins the game with two Pokémon. More are obtained throughout the game by \"Snagging\" them from other Trainers using Poké Balls of various strengths. Only specifically designated \"Shadow Pokémon\", whose hearts have been artificially closed, can be Snagged. Pokémon can be traded between \"Colosseum\" and the Game Boy Advance games \"Pokémon Ruby\", \"Sapphire\", \"FireRed\", \"LeafGreen\", or \"Emerald\".\n\nEach of the player's Shadow Pokémon has a purple gauge that is drained by battling and coming to like the player. Once a Pokémon's gauge is empty, the player may \"Purify\" the Pokémon by bringing him or her to Celebi's shrine in Agate Village, or by using a rare \"Time Flute\" item. Purifying Shadow Pokémon is desirable because while in that status, they will often disobey the player, they cannot gain experience points, and their moves are at first restricted to \"Shadow Rush\". Additionally, Shadow Pokémon will sporadically enter \"Hyper Mode\" state during battle, causing them to disobey the player character or attack themselves until the condition is alleviated by selecting the \"Call\" battle command.\n\nAside from the story mode, \"Colosseum\" also features several non-canonical battle modes. In the \"Quick Battle\" mode, the player can battle either CPU trainers or friends, using Pokémon obtained in the story mode or randomly assigned ones. Battles in this mode do not result in gain of experience points or money. In the single-player battle mode, the player competes at Colosseums—stadiums used throughout the game for Pokémon battles—and earns \"Poké Coupons\", another currency which can be used to buy rare items. In the \"Gang Battle\" mode, up to four players can compete in a tournament. The first can use Pokémon obtained in the story mode, or from the Game Boy Advance games. Players two through four, however, can only use Pokémon from the Game Boy Advance games.\n\n\"Pokémon Colosseum\" is set in the Orre region. Orre is a mostly desertous region in which no wild Pokémon can be found (although the sequel, \"Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness\", adds wild Pokémon spots to the region). Orre consists of many cities, towns, and Colosseums.\n\nThe game's player protagonist is by default named , but as with most \"Pokémon\" games, the player can change his name. Wes's Starter Pokémon are Espeon and Umbreon, two cat Pokémon who start at higher levels than most Starter Pokémon. , a criminal organization that uses the \"Snag machine\" technology to capture the Pokémon of Trainers, serves as an antagonistic entity in the game. However, shortly after the game's start, is revealed to be the main antagonistic force, having partnered with Snagem to obtain Pokémon from Trainers, corrupting them, and distributing them throughout Cipher and other places such as Pyrite Town. Wes is a former employee of Team Snagem. The organization also employs many grunt workers, as well as four administrators: disco-loving , the explosively-tempered bodybuilder, , the queen of the Under, , and the strategist of a scientist, .\n\nThe game begins with a cold open in which Wes infiltrates and destroys the Team Snagem hideout before leaving the organization. Wes starts at the Outskirt Stand, a dilapidated train engine in the middle of the desert that has been converted into a shop. With Espeon and Umbreon, Wes's first opponent is a Trainer named Willie. Wes then leaves the Stand and heads to the oasis-esque Phenac City in time to see two men dragging a sack. After defeating them in battle, Wes unties the sack to find Rui, a girl with the ability to discern Shadow Pokémon. They meet the mayor, Es Cade, who seems very bothered about the Cipher problem, but seems to do nothing about it. Later, upon leaving Phenac Colosseum, three Snagem grunts find Wes and Rui. The grunts then reveal to Rui that he was a member of Snagem, and an excellent Snagger. Wes then confronts one of the grunts, which results in the latter's defeat. Finding out that he is an expert at snagging Pokémon, Rui asks him to join forces with her in finding and snagging Shadow Pokémon.\n\nAs the game progresses, Wes becomes a target of a powerful organization known as Team Cipher. After leaving Phenac, he visits Pyrite Town, where Rui was kidnapped. In Pyrite, Shadow Pokémon are openly offered to winners of the town's Colosseum tournament. The local police force is powerless to stop the practice, so Duking, an influential man in Pyrite, asks Wes to enter the tournament and investigate. Wes enters the Colosseum challenge and defeats four trainers to win. Inside a nearby building, a Cipher Peon is about to present the Shadow Pokémon prize, but another one recognizes Wes. The pair then battle their way through the building and a maze-like cave set in the rock behind. Eventually, they face and defeat Miror B., one of four Cipher Admins. Afterwards, Wes returns a Pokémon Miror B. stole from Duking. A team of kids working in Duking's house introduce themselves as members of an anti-Cipher news network, known as the Kids Grid, who pledge their help to Wes and Rui.\n\nTheir next stop is Agate Village, a forested village in the mountains. As Rui introduces Wes to her grandfather Eagun, another villager runs into the room, telling them that the Relic Stone—a shrine protected by Celebi—is under attack. Wes, following Eagun to the center of the tree, fights off four Cipher agents before the Relic Stone is safe. After resting, Wes is given access to the Relic Stone, the only place where he can purify Shadow Pokémon. After receiving an e-mail from Duking about Mt. battle being under attack by Cipher, Rui asks Eagun where it is and the two headed over there.\n\nUpon reaching Mt. Battle, people inform Wes and Rui that Cipher has already taken over the first section of the mountain. After battling nine other Trainers, Wes battles the Cipher administrator Dakim. Dakim owns a Shadow Entei, who is one of the trio of legendary beasts. After defeating Dakim, Wes heads to The Under, which is an underground city located underneath Pyrite Town, and under the control of Cipher. More members of the Kids Grid are here. They tell the player of Venus, another Cipher administrator, who has influence over The Under. After Wes confronts Venus, the owner of the second legendary beast Suicune, she flees. Next, Wes and Rui head to the Shadow Pokémon Lab, where Pokémon are transformed into Shadow Pokémon. After defeating numerous Cipher peons, Wes faces Ein, the final Cipher administrator and the owner of the final legendary beast Raikou.\n\nWes and Rui then go to Realgam Tower. All four administrators are there and ready to face Wes again. After doing so, he is granted access to the Colosseum at the top of the building. There, he is greeted by a large crowd. A Cipher man named Nascour tells Wes that he will have to face four trainers. After Wes defeats all four trainers, Nascour fights him. Once defeated, Nascour tries to leave, only to be interrupted by Es Cade. Es Cade reveals that he is really none other than Evice, the head of Cipher, and battles Wes. When Wes defeats him, Evice attempts to escape by helicopter, but the legendary Pokémon Ho-Oh swoops in and blasts it out of the sky. Evice and Nascour are sent to jail.\n\n\"Pokémon Colosseum\" was developed by the Japanese game developer Genius Sonority, and published by Nintendo. Just as Nintendo 64 predecessors \"Pokémon Stadium\" and \"Pokémon Stadium 2\" had served as home console counterparts to the first- and second-generation handheld titles, \"Colosseum\" had a similar role for the third generation.\n\nThe new concept for \"Pokémon Colosseum\" was influenced by RPGs such as \"Final Fantasy VII\" and \"Persona 2\" over the \"Pokémon\" mold. When asked in an interview with Prima Games why the gameplay of \"Colosseum\" did not mirror that of the handheld \"Pokémon\" games, \"Pokémon\" director Junichi Masuda explained: \"How players communicate with each other has been key to the \"Pokémon\" games – it is the backbone of all \"Pokémon\" game designs. I feel that the handheld systems work better than the home-based consoles. It's certainly possible to come up with concepts for home-based consoles, but we might then have to change the core of the game.\"\nThe transition to 3D also brought new graphical changes. Wes was designed to look \"hazy\" and about 17 years old. Genius Sonority ported most of the models and animations of first- and second-generation Pokémon from \"Stadium\" and \"Stadium 2\". Genius Sonority based most of Orre on the real-life city of Phoenix, Arizona. As a whole, the graphics were influenced more by manga than by established \"Pokémon\" convention.\n\nA preview for the game was hosted at E3 2003. Upon completion of development, \"Colosseum\" received a rating of \"E\" (Everyone) from the Entertainment Software Rating Board, \"All Ages\" from Computer Entertainment Rating Organization, and \"3+\" from Pan European Game Information. The game was released on November 21, 2003 in Japan; March 22, 2004 in North America, and May 14, 2004 in Europe.\n\nNintendo also published supplementary media to unlock additional content. Pre-ordered copies of the game came with a bonus disc that contains trailers for the game and the film \"\". The North American disc also contains the exclusive Pokémon Jirachi that can be downloaded to the player's copy of \"Ruby\" or \"Sapphire\". The Japanese release contains a downloadable Celebi instead and requires a completed save file of Pokémon Colosseum. The disc also updates the software in \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" to remove a \"berry glitch\" discovered in 2003. Despite public anticipation the Bonus Disc was not released in PAL territories, prompting Nintendo to issue an official apology. However a Jirachi was later included in the PAL version of the game Pokémon Channel. In Japan, scannable cards for the Nintendo e-Reader were available for purchase that featured additional trainers to battle and Shadow Pokémon.\n\n\"Pokémon Colosseum\" was generally well-received upon release, with respective scores of 73/100 and 73.46% from aggregators Metacritic and GameRankings. Allgame staff writer Scott Alan Marriott gave the game three and a half stars out of five, although he did not review the game with more depth.\n\nCritics praised \"Colosseum\" as the first true 3D role-playing installment in the \"Pokémon\" series. Gamers Hell reviewer John K. called it \"certainly a step in the right direction to a good 3D \"Pokémon\" game\", although he felt that the limited number of Pokémon and lack of a true overworld detracted from the experience. IGN staff writer Craig Harris said that the adaptation of the \"Pokémon\" RPG formula to the 3D zeitgeist \"does a decent enough job\" and is \"a bit more linear and straightforward\".\n\nThe new 3D graphics received mixed remarks. Harris called the game \"[g]raphically ... a mixed bag\", praising the visual style of the game's Pokémon but criticizing the \"poorly modeled and animated, angular\" style of the Trainers. GameSpot reviewer Ryan Davis offered a similar opinion, concluding that \"[t]he visual style ... has gone off the deep end\". \"GamePro\" writer Star Dingo called the graphics as a whole \"insanely cute\" but criticized the lack of animations showing two Pokémon attacking in tandem. GameZone's review took a more positive stance, saying that \"[a]nimations are brief but impressive; each attack move is more elaborate and more extravagant on the 'Cube.\" \"Nintendo Power\" thought similarly, commending the \"amazing level of detail\".\n\nGameZone compared the overall town design and environments to those of the landmark \"Final Fantasy VII\". Dingo complained that \"there are some characters to talk to and chests to find, but no 'overworld' with free-roaming monsters to capture.\" John K. stated that \"[t]he towns are made with enough detail, but sometimes a bit dull.\"\n\nHarris denounced the game's usage of old Pokémon battle cries, a recurring complaint of the series. Dingo called the music as a whole \"a bit too low-tech and synthetic\". GameZone, in contrast, stated that the sound effects evoke nostalgia for \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\", and that the music tracks \"have more depth than any of the songs from the previous games.\" John K. said that the music is neither annoying nor entertaining. Retronauts described \"Colosseum\" as \"terrible\", citing the reuse of graphics from the \"Pokémon Stadium\" games.\n\nIn 2006, \"Nintendo Power\" listed \"Colosseum\" as the 121st greatest video game to appear on a Nintendo console.\n\nThree weeks before its release, pre-orders of \"Pokémon Colosseum\" made it the best-selling game on Amazon.com. In the game's first week of release in the United Kingdom, it boosted the GameCube's market share from 16% to 32%. It was the best-selling GameCube game of May 2004, and fourteenth among all consoles. In 2005, the game was certified as part of Nintendo's Player's Choice line in North America, representing at least 250,000 copies sold. As of 2007, the game has sold over 1.15 million copies in the United States and 656,270 in Japan. It is the best-selling RPG for the GameCube.\n\n\"Pokémon Colosseum\" spawned a high-profile tournament in the United Kingdom entitled \"Pokémon Colosseum Battlemaster 2004\". The first round of battles was held at Toys \"R\" Us locations, with later battles taking place in movie theaters. Across Europe, the game was bundled with GameCube consoles shortly after its release. Special editions of this set also included a copy of \"\"\n—a game that allows players to organize and store up to 1,500 Pokémon from their games—as well as a memory card and a Game Boy Advance–GameCube link cable.\n\nA manga adaptation of \"Colosseum\"s plot was printed in 2004 issues of the Japanese magazine \"CoroCoro Comic\" and titled . The game was followed by a 2005 sequel entitled \"\". Set in Orre five years after \"Colosseum\", it features a new protagonist snagging Shadow Pokémon from Team Cipher. Shadow Lugia is the game's mascot, and serves as an antagonist whom the player can snag. The game alludes to Wes, Rui, and The Under, though they do not appear.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063841", "title": "Rob Dibble", "text": "Rob Dibble\n\nRobert Keith Dibble (born January 24, 1964) is an American former Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher and television analyst. Between 1988 and 1995, Dibble played for the Cincinnati Reds, Chicago White Sox and Milwaukee Brewers. He was a two-time All-Star who recorded 89 saves during his career. Since retiring as a player, Dibble has held several roles in sports television broadcasting.\n\nDibble was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut. He attended St. Thomas School, a parochial school, and is a graduate of Southington High School in Southington, Connecticut. Dibble's father, Walt Dibble, was a longtime radio news director at WDRC and later WTIC in Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nDibble was drafted by the Cincinnati Reds in the first round of the 1983 amateur draft, and he made his debut with the Reds on June 29, 1988.\n\nOn June 4, 1989, Dibble struck out three batters on nine pitches in the eighth inning of a 5–3 win over the San Diego Padres. Dibble is one of 41 pitchers in Major League history to accomplish the nine-pitch/three-strikeout half-inning, a feat known as an immaculate inning.\n\nHe was an MLB All-Star in 1990 and 1991, and was the 1990 NLCS Most Valuable Player (along with fellow \"Nasty Boy\" Randy Myers). In 1990, Dibble and the Reds won the World Series by beating the Oakland Athletics in four consecutive games.\n\nDibble recorded his 500th career strikeout in fewer innings—368—than any other pitcher in modern baseball history up to that point (a record that is currently held by Craig Kimbrel).\n\nDuring his career Dibble was known for his temper. During a game in July 1989, he hit Mets second basemen Tim Teufel in the back with a pitch; Teufel then charged Dibble, causing a benches clearing brawl. After saving a game in April 1991 despite giving up two runs in relief, Dibble threw a baseball 400 feet into the center-field seats at Cincinnati, inadvertently striking a woman. He was also involved in a brawl in 1991 with Astros shortstop Eric Yelding. Later in the 1991 season, he threw a baseball into the back of Cubs outfielder Doug Dascenzo as he ran down the first base line and was subsequently ejected from the game. Dibble also was involved in a brawl with manager Lou Piniella in the Reds clubhouse after a game in 1992.\n\nDibble required surgery to his pitching arm in 1994, and missed the entire season as a result. Dibble signed with the Milwaukee Brewers and also played with the Chicago White Sox. He signed with the Chicago Cubs at the end of the 1995 season, but voluntarily retired from the team the following March after a rough spring. Weeks later, he opted to make a comeback, signing a minor league contract on April 14, 1996 with the Florida Marlins, but Dibble would ultimately see no game action with the Marlins or their minor league affiliates.\n\nIn 1998, Dibble joined ESPN as a baseball analyst, working mostly on Dan Patrick's radio show. He worked on \"The Best Damn Sports Show Period\" as a co-host until 2008, when he left to join FOX on their Saturday baseball program as an analyst. Dibble also spends time as a co-host/analyst of First Pitch on XM Channel 175/Sirius channel 210. He formerly hosted \"The Show\" (on the same channel) with Jody McDonald. Dibble served as co-analyst (with Kevin Kennedy) for FOXSports.com on a weekly video segment entitled \"Around the Bases.\" Dibble also is a co-host with former Major League player Denny Hocking on Fox Sports Radio Sunday night programming. In 2009, Dibble signed a three-year contract to replace Don Sutton as the color voice of the Washington Nationals on MASN.\n\nWhile broadcasting a game in August 2010, Dibble drew negative attention for focusing on a group of female spectators in the Nationals crowd, and questioning their focus on the game. He later apologized for the comments. Later in the month, Dibble criticized Nationals rookie pitcher Stephen Strasburg for missing a start due to an injury: \"Suck it up, kid. This is your profession. You chose to be a baseball player. You can't have the cavalry come in and save your butt every time you feel a little stiff shoulder, sore elbow.\" It was revealed shortly afterward that Strasburg had torn an elbow ligament and required Tommy John surgery. Dibble took a few days off from MASN after making the comments, and on September 1, 2010, MASN announced that Dibble would no longer be calling Nationals games. After losing his job with the Nationals, Dibble apologized for the Strasburg comments on his radio show.\n\nIn April 2011, Dibble said in an interview on FoxSports.com that the reason for his dismissal was because of an email Strasburg's father sent to the Lerner Family, the owners of the Nationals. Dibble also continued to express his belief that Strasburg should have pitched through his pain. Strasburg denied the claim about his father's e-mail, and Stan Kasten, the president of the Nationals, called Dibble's account \"fictional\" and \"sad\". As of October 31, 2011, Dibble became a member of Mike North's talk radio show.\n\nDibble had a brief stint as the varsity baseball head coach at Calabasas High School in Calabasas, California. He was fired from his head coaching job on March 27, 2013, only ten games into the season. As of December 18, 2013, he, along with Amy Van Dyken, were replaced on Fox Sports Radio's \"Fox Sports Tonight\".\n\nDibble currently calls Los Angeles Angels games for Compass Media.\n\nOn March 27, 2014, Dibble became the host of the 3–7 pm (Eastern) sports talk show on WUCS 97.9 FM and WAVZ 1300 AM in the ESPN stations in Hartford and New Haven, CT respectively. He joined interim host Paul Nanos who filled in when Mike Bower's contract was not renewed. Up until the end of October the show was billed as \"The Rob Dibble Show with Paul Nanos\". In October, the show was renamed \"The Rob Dibble Show\".[26]\n\n\n26. Radio Online March 30,2014\n"}
{"id": "42582643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42582643", "title": "Tasa Konević", "text": "Tasa Konević\n\nTasa Konević Apostolović (; d. 1916) was an Orthodox priest and Macedonian Serb Chetnik from Krapa in Poreče. He was the son of a local Serb chief, Kone Apostolović, who was the leader of the Prilep Serbs at the end of the 19th century, and one of the richest in the village. Priest Tasa was the protector of Serbdom in Poreče and led the local guerrilla organization. He participated in the Ilinden Uprising (July–August 1903), orchestrated by the Bulgarian-organized Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO), with a Serb band. After the Kokošinje slaughters (July–October 1904) and IMRO attacks on Macedonian Serbs, he organized the village self-defense units and joined Gligor Sokolović and his neighbour Trenko Rujanović, of the Serbian Chetnik Organization. Tasa defended and administrated the village throughout the Macedonian Struggle. An important event was the attack on Krapa by combined bands of the IMRO, which ended in a fight on Kurt's Stone won by the Serbian bands. Tasa was murdered in 1916, in the Derviš fields massacre when the occupying Bulgarian Army executed 104 Serb leaders from Poreče.\n\n"}
{"id": "49242921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49242921", "title": "The Canada Party", "text": "The Canada Party\n\nThe Canada Party is a political satire group devoted to electing Canada as President of the United States. Founded in Vancouver, British Columbia, in 2012, the organization produces and shares a variety of satirical media, including videos, posters, memes, and various campaign material. In 2012, they published the Canadian bestseller, \"America, But Better\"\n\nThe Canada Party's inaugural video, has received more than one million views, and was described by \"George Stroumboulopoulos Tonight\" as \"one of the top political ads of the 2012 election.\" Subsequent videos have tallied more than 80 million additional views.\n\nThe 2012 campaign was featured by outlets such as CNN, CBC, BBC, the Rush, and German State Television. C-SPAN produced a half-hour special on a campaign rally at the KGB Bar in New York City.\n\n\"America, But Better: the Canada Party Manifesto\" was published in August, 2012 by Douglas & MacIntyre. The book was a Canadian bestseller, with Publishers Weekly claiming of the authors \"their bite is on par with that of the Daily Show, Steven Colbert, and Bill Maher.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31621", "title": "Transient ischemic attack", "text": "Transient ischemic attack\n\nA transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a brief episode of neurological dysfunction caused by loss of blood flow (ischemia) in the brain, spinal cord, or retina, without tissue death (infarction). TIAs have the same underlying mechanism as ischemic strokes. Both are caused by a disruption in blood flow to the brain, or cerebral blood flow (CBF). The definition of TIA was classically based on duration of neurological symptoms. The current widely-accepted definition is called \"tissue-based\" because it is based on imaging, not time. The American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association (AHA/ASA) now define TIA as a brief episode of neurological dysfunction with a vascular cause, with clinical symptoms typically lasting less than one hour, and without evidence of infarction on imaging.\n\nTIA causes the same symptoms associated with stroke, such as paralysis, weakness, or numbness on one side of the body. Symptoms occur on the opposite side of the body from the affected hemisphere of the brain (contralateral hemiparesis or hemianesthesia). A TIA may cause sudden dimming or loss of vision (amaurosis fugax), difficulty speaking or understanding language (aphasia), slurred speech (dysarthria), and confusion (altered mental status).\n\nTIA and ischemic stroke share a common cause. Both result from a disruption in blood flow to the central nervous system. In ischemic stroke, symptoms generally persist beyond 7 days. In TIA, symptoms typically resolve within 1 hour. The occurrence of a TIA is a risk factor for eventually having a stroke. Both are associated with increased risk of death or disability. Recognition that a TIA has occurred is an opportunity to start treatment, including medications and lifestyle changes, to prevent a stroke.\n\nWhile a TIA must by definition be associated with symptoms, a stroke may be symptomatic or silent. In silent stroke, also known as silent cerebral infarct (SCI), there is permanent infarction present on imaging, but there are no immediately observable symptoms. An SCI often occurs before or after a TIA or major stroke.\n\nSigns and symptoms of TIA are widely variable and can mimic other neurologic conditions, making the clinical context and physical exam crucial in ruling in or out the diagnosis. The most common presenting symptoms of TIA are focal neurologic deficits, which can include, but are not limited to:\nA detailed neurologic exam, including a thorough cranial nerve exam, is important to identify these findings and to differentiate them from mimickers of TIA. Symptoms such as unilateral weakness, amaurosis fugax, and double vision have higher odds of representing TIA compared to memory loss, headache, and blurred vision. Below is a table of symptoms at presentation, and what percentage of the time they are seen in TIAs versus conditions that mimic TIA. In general, focal deficits make TIA more likely, but the absence of focal findings do not exclude the diagnosis and further evaluation may be warranted if clinical suspicion for TIA is high (see “Diagnosis” section below).\n\nSymptoms of TIAs can last on the order of minutes to 1–2 hours, but occasionally may last for a longer period of time. TIAs used to be defined as ischemic events in the brain that last less than 24 hours, but given the variation in duration of symptoms, this definition holds less significance. A pooled study of 808 patients with TIAs from 10 hospitals showed that 60% lasted less than 1 hour, 71% lasted less than 2 hours, and 14% lasted greater than 6 hours. Importantly, patients with symptoms that last more than one hour are more likely to have permanent neurologic damage, making prompt diagnosis and treatment important to maximize recovery.\n\nThere are three major mechanisms of ischemia in the brain: embolism traveling to the brain, in situ thrombotic occlusion in the intracranial vessels supplying the parenchyma of the brain, and stenosis of vessels leading to poor perfusion secondary to flow-limiting diameter. Globally, the vessel most commonly affected is the middle cerebral artery.\n\nEmbolisms can originate from multiple parts of the body. The most common underlying pathology leading to TIA and stroke is a cardiac condition called atrial fibrillation, where poor coordination of contraction leads to a formation of a clot in the atrial chamber that can become dislodged and travel to a cerebral artery. Unlike in stroke, the blood flow can become restored prior to infarction which leads to the resolution of neurologic symptoms. Another common culprit of TIA is an atherosclerotic plaque located in the common carotid artery, typically by the bifurcation between the internal and external carotids, that becomes an embolism to the brain vasculature similar to the clot in the prior example. A portion of the plaque can become dislodged and lead to embolic pathology in the cerebral vessels.\n\nIn-situ thrombosis, an obstruction that forms directly in the cerebral vasculature unlike the remote embolism previously mentioned, is another vascular occurrence with possible presentation as TIA. Also, carotid stenosis secondary to atherosclerosis narrowing the diameter of the lumen and thus limiting blood flow is another common cause of TIA. Individuals with carotid stenosis may present with TIA symptoms, thus labeled symptomatic, while others may not experience symptoms and be asymptomatic.\n\nThe following table lists common mechanisms of stroke and TIA:\nRisk factors associated with TIA are categorized as modifiable or non-modifiable. Non-modifiable risk factors include age greater than 55, sex, family history, genetics, and race/ethnicity. Modifiable risk factors include cigarette smoking, hypertension (elevated blood pressure), diabetes, hyperlipidemia, level of carotid artery stenosis (asymptomatic or symptomatic) and activity level. The modifiable risk factors are commonly targeted in treatment options to attempt to minimize risk of TIA and stroke.\n\nDiagnosis of TIA involves a combination of asking the patient questions about their symptoms and medical history, physical exam, and head imaging. History taking includes defining the symptoms and looking for mimicking symptoms as described above. Bystanders can be very helpful in describing the symptoms and giving details about when they started and how long they lasted. The time course (onset, duration, and resolution), precipitating events, and risk factors are particularly important. Finally, a thorough review of symptoms is necessary to rule in or out other items on the differential diagnosis of TIA. These include, but are not limited to:\n\nAfter taking the patient’s history, a thorough neurologic exam is needed to identify focal neurologic deficits, paying attention to the cranial nerve, motor, sensory, and coordination components of the exam. After the history and physical exam, clinicians may move on to laboratory workup and imaging.\n\nLaboratory workup\n\nLaboratory tests should focus on ruling out metabolic conditions that may mimic TIA (e.g. hypoglycemia causing altered mental status), in addition to further evaluating a patient’s risk factors for ischemic events. All patients should receive a complete blood count with platelet count, blood glucose, basic metabolic panel, prothrombin time/international normalized ratio, and activated partial thromboplastin time as part of their initial workup. These tests help with screening for bleeding or hypercoagulable conditions. An electrocardiogram is necessary to rule out abnormal heart rhythms, such as atrial fibrillation, that can predispose patients to clot formation and embolic events. Other lab tests, such as a full hypercoagulable state workup or serum drug screening, should be considered based on the clinical situation and factors, such as age of the patient and family history. A fasting lipid panel is also appropriate to thoroughly evaluate the patient’s risk for atherosclerotic disease and ischemic events in the future.\n\nImaging:\n\nAccording to guidelines from the American Heart Association and American Stroke Association Stroke Council, patients with TIA should have head imaging “within 24 hours of symptom onset, preferably with magnetic resonance imaging, including diffusion sequences”. MRI is a better imaging modality for TIA than computed tomography (CT), as it is better able to pick up both new and old ischemic lesions than CT. CT, however, is more widely available and can be used particularly to rule out intracranial hemorrhage. Diffusion sequences can help further localize the area of ischemia and can serve as prognostic indicators. Presence of ischemic lesions on diffusion weighted imaging has been correlated with a higher risk of stroke after a TIA.\n\nVessels in the head and neck may also be evaluated to look for atherosclerotic lesions that may benefit from interventions, such as carotid endarterectomy. The vasculature can be evaluated through the following imaging modalities: magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), CT angiography (CTA), and carotid ultrasonography/transcranial doppler ultrasonography. Carotid ultrasonography is often used to screen for carotid artery stenosis, as it is more readily available, is noninvasive, and does not expose the person being evaluated to radiation. However, all of the above imaging methods have variable sensitivities and specificities, making it important to supplement one of the imaging methods with another to help confirm the diagnosis (for example: screen for the disease with ultrasonography, and confirm with CTA). Confirming a diagnosis of carotid artery stenosis is important because the treatment for this condition, carotid endarterectomy, can pose significant risk to the patient, including heart attacks and strokes after the procedure. For this reason, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) \"recommends against screening for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis in the general adult population\". This recommendation is for asymptomatic patients, so it does not necessarily apply to patients with TIAs as these may in fact be a symptom of underlying carotid artery disease (see \"Causes and Pathogenesis\" above). Therefore, patients who have had a TIA may opt to have a discussion with their clinician about the risks and benefits of screening for carotid artery stenosis, including the risks of surgical treatment of this condition.\n\nCardiac imaging can be performed if head and neck imaging do not reveal a vascular cause for the patient’s TIA (such as atherosclerosis of the carotid artery or other major vessels of the head and neck). Echocardiography can be performed to identify patent foramen ovale (PFO), valvular stenosis, and atherosclerosis of the aortic arch that could be sources of clots causing TIAs, with transesophageal echocardiography being more sensitive than transthoracic echocardiography in identifying these lesions. Prolonged cardiac rhythm monitoring can be considered to rule out arrhythmias like paroxysmal atrial fibrillation that may lead to clot formation and TIAs, however this should be considered if other causes of TIA have not been found.\n\nAlthough there is a lack of robust studies demonstrating the efficacy of lifestyle changes in preventing TIA, many medical professionals recommend them. These include:\nIn addition, it is important to control any underlying medical conditions that may increase the risk of stroke or TIA, including:\n\nBy definition, TIAs are transient, self-resolving, and do not cause permanent impairment. However, they are associated with an increased risk of subsequent ischemic strokes, which can be permanently disabling. Therefore, management centers around the prevention of future ischemic strokes and addressing any modifiable risk factors. The optimal regimen depends on the underlying cause of the TIA.\n\nAn antiplatelet, such as aspirin, is started for secondary prevention of stroke after most TIAs. An exception is TIAs due to blood clots originating from the heart, in which case anticoagulants are generally recommended. After TIA or minor stroke, aspirin therapy has been shown to reduce the short-term risk of recurrent stroke by 60-70%, and the long-term risk of stroke by 13%.\n\nThe typical therapy may include aspirin alone, a combination of aspirin plus extended-release dipyridamole, or clopidogrel alone. Clopidogrel and aspirin have similar efficacies and side effect profiles. Clopidogrel is more expensive and has a slightly decreased risk of GI bleed. There is some evidence that giving both aspirin and clopidogrel within 24 hours of a TIA or minor stroke is more effective than aspirin alone. Another antiplatelet, ticlopidine, is rarely used due to increased side effects.\n\nAnticoagulants may be started if the TIA is thought to be attributable to atrial fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation is an abnormal heart rhythm that may cause the formation of blood clots that can travel to the brain, resulting in TIAs or ischemic strokes. Atrial fibrillation increases stroke risk by five times, and is thought to cause 10-12% of all ischemic strokes in the US. Anticoagulant therapy can decrease the relative risk of ischemic stroke in those with atrial fibrillation by 67% Warfarin is a common anticoagulant used, but direct acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs), such as apixaban, have been shown to be equally effective while also conferring a lower risk of bleeding. Generally, anticoagulants and antiplatelets are not used in combination, as they result in increased bleeding risk without a decrease in stroke risk. However, combined antiplatelet and anticoagulant therapy may be warranted if the patient has symptomatic coronary artery disease in addition to atrial fibrillation.\n\nSometimes, myocardial infarction (“heart attack”) may lead to the formation of a blood clot in one of the chambers of the heart. If this is thought to be the cause of the TIA, people may be temporarily treated with warfarin or other anticoagulant to decrease the risk of future stroke.\n\nBlood pressure control may be indicated after TIA to reduce the risk of ischemic stroke. About 70% of patients with recent ischemic stroke are found to have hypertension, defined as systolic blood pressure (SBP) > 140 mmHg, or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) > 90 mmHg. Until the first half of the 2010s, blood pressure goals have generally been SBP < 140 mmHg and DBP < 90 mmHg. However, newer studies suggest that a goal of SBP <130 mmHg may confer even greater benefit. Blood pressure control is often achieved using diuretics or a combination of diuretics and angiotensin converter enzyme inhibitors, although the optimal treatment regimen depends on the individual.\n\nThere is inconsistent evidence regarding the effect of LDL-cholesterol levels on stroke risk after TIA. Elevated cholesterol may increase ischemic stroke risk while decreasing the risk of hemorrhagic stroke. While its role in stroke prevention is currently unclear, statin therapy has been shown to reduce all-cause mortality and may be recommended after TIA.\n\nDiabetes mellitus increases the risk of ischemic stroke by 1.5-3.7 times, and may account for at least 8% of first ischemic strokes. While intensive glucose control can prevent certain complications of diabetes such as kidney damage and retinal damage, there has previously been little evidence that it decreases the risk of stroke or death. However, data from 2017 suggests that metformin, pioglitazone and semaglutide may reduce stroke risk.\n\nIf the TIA affects an area that is supplied by the carotid arteries, a carotid ultrasound scan may demonstrate stenosis, or narrowing, of the carotid artery. For people with extra-cranial carotid stenosis, if 70-99% of the carotid artery is clogged, carotid endarterectomy can decrease the 5-year risk of ischemic stroke by approximately half. For those with extra-cranial stenosis between 50-69%, carotid endarterectomy decreases the 5-year risk of ischemic stroke by about 16%. For those with extra-cranial stenosis less than 50%, carotid endarterectomy does not reduce stroke risk and may, in some cases, increase it. The efficacy of carotid endarterectomy or carotid artery stenting in reducing stroke risk in patients with intra-cranial carotid artery stenosis is currently unknown.\n\nIn carotid endarterectomy, a surgeon makes an incision in the neck, opens up the carotid artery, and removes the plaque occluding the blood vessel. The artery may then be repaired by adding a graft from another vessel in the body, or a woven patch. In patients who undergo carotid endarterectomy after a TIA or minor stroke, the 30 day risk of death or stroke is 7%.\n\nCarotid artery stenting is a less invasive alternative to carotid endarterectomy for patients with extra-cranial carotid artery stenosis. In this procedure, the surgeon makes a small cut in the groin and threads a small flexible tube, called a catheter, into the patient’s carotid artery. A balloon is inflated at the site of stenosis, opening up the clogged artery to allow for increased blood flow to the brain. To keep the vessel open, a small wire mesh coil, called a stent, may be inflated along with the balloon. The stent remains in place, and the balloon is removed.\n\nIn patients over age 70, carotid endarterectomy is associated with fewer postoperative deaths or strokes than carotid artery stenting. In younger patients, there is no significant difference in outcomes between carotid endarterectomy and carotid artery stenting. People who undergo carotid endarterectomy or carotid artery stenting for stroke prevention are medically managed with antiplatelets, statins, and other interventions as well.\n\nLifestyle changes have not been shown to reduce the risk of stroke after TIA. While no studies have looked at the optimal diet for secondary prevention of stroke, some observational studies have shown that a mediterranean diet can reduce stroke risk in patients without cerebrovascular disease. A mediterranean diet is rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains, and limited in red meats and sweets. Vitamin supplementation has not been found to be useful in secondary stroke prevention.\n\nPeople diagnosed with TIA are sometimes said to have had a warning for an approaching stroke. In TIA, the short duration of impaired blood flow does not cause permanent ischemic damage to the brain. In ischemic stroke, the time period of blood supply impairment is of longer duration and the neurons in that area of the brain die, causing permanent neurological damage. One-third of people with TIA later have recurrent TIAs and one-third go on to suffer an ischemic stroke. Other sources cite that 10% of TIAs will develop a stroke within 90 days, half of which will occur in the first two days following the TIA. The risk of a stroke occurring after a TIA can be predicted using the ABCD² score. One limitation of the ABCD² score is that it does not reliably predict the level of carotid artery stenosis, which is a major cause of stroke in TIA patients. The patient's age is the most reliable risk factor in predicting any level of carotid stenosis in transient ischemic attack.\n\nWith the difficulty in diagnosing a TIA due to its nonspecific symptoms of neurologic dysfunction at presentation and a differential including many mimics, the exact incidence of the disease is unclear. It is currently estimated to have an incidence of approximately 200,000 to 500,000 cases per year in the US according to the American Heart Association. TIA incidence trends similarly to stroke, such that incidence varies with age, gender, and different race/ethnicity populations. Associated risk factors include age greater than or equal to 60, blood pressure greater than or equal to 140 systolic or 90 diastolic, and comorbid diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension, atherosclerosis, and atrial fibrillation. It is thought that approximately 15 to 30 percent of strokes have a preceding TIA episode associated.\n"}
{"id": "26964158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26964158", "title": "Trion (physics)", "text": "Trion (physics)\n\nA trion is a localized excitation which consists of three charged quasiparticles. A negative trion consists of two electrons and one hole and a positive trion consists of two holes and one electron. The trion itself is a quasiparticle and is somewhat similar to an exciton, which is a complex of one electron and one hole. The trion has a ground singlet state (spin \"s\" = 1/2) and an excited triplet state (\"s\" = 3/2). Here singlet and triplet degeneracies originate not from the whole system but from the two identical particles in it. The half-integer spin value distinguishes trions from excitons in many phenomena; for example, energy states of trions, but not excitons, are split in an applied magnetic field. Trion states were predicted theoretically and then observed experimentally in various optically excited semiconductors, especially in quantum dots and quantum well structures. There are experimental proofs of their existence in nanotubes supported by theoretical studies.\nDespite numerous reports of experimental trion observations in different semiconductor heterostructures, there are serious concerns on the exact physical nature of the detected complexes. The originally foreseen 'true' trion particle has a delocalized wavefunction (at least at the scales of several Bohr radii) while recent studies reveal significant binding from charged impurities in real semiconductor quantum wells.\n\nTrions have been observed in atomically thin two-dimensional (2D) transition-metal dichalcogenide semiconductors. In 2D materials the form of the interaction between charge carriers is modified by the nonlocal screening provided by the atoms in the layer. The interaction is approximately logarithmic at short range and of Coulomb 1/\"r\" form at long range. The diffusion Monte Carlo method has been used to obtain numerically exact results for the binding energies of trions in 2D semiconductors within the effective mass approximation.\n"}
{"id": "33776367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33776367", "title": "William Batson (cricketer)", "text": "William Batson (cricketer)\n\nWilliam Batson (dates of birth and death unknown) was an English cricketer. Batson was a right-handed batsman.\n\nBatson made two first-class appearances for Northamptonshire against Surrey in the 1920 County Championship and Warwickshire in the 1921 County Championship. In the match against Surrey at The Oval, he scored 9 runs in Northamptonshire's first-innings, before being dismissed by Percy Fender, while in their second-innings he was dismissed for a duck by the same bowler. Against Warwickshire at the County Ground, he scored 2 runs before being dismissed by Gerard Rotherham, while in their second-innings he was dismissed by Harry Howell, having scored 14 runs.\n\n"}
{"id": "43994253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43994253", "title": "William Brogan", "text": "William Brogan\n\nWilliam Henry Joseph Brogan (1900-1983) was an Australian rugby league player of the 1920s and 1930s. He was a state and national representative.\n\nBill Brogan was born at West Wyalong, New South Wales, in 1900. He joined Western Suburbs Magpies in 1929, and after a stirling season, he was selected on the 1929/30 Kangaroo Tour and played in all three tests against England. Brogan is listed on the \"Australian Players Register\" as Kangaroo No.151. Brogan spent five years at Wests between 1929-1933 and won a premiership with them in 1930. Bill Brogan also made 11 appearances for New South Wales. He retired from Sydney football in 1933 to captain-coach Warialda and Moree Rugby Leagues clubs.\n\nBill Brogan died at Earlwood, New South Wales on 6 March 1983, aged 83.\n"}
{"id": "11118506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11118506", "title": "William Ramsay Smith", "text": "William Ramsay Smith\n\nDr William Ramsay Smith (27 November 1859 – 28 September 1937) was a Scottish physician, educator, naturalist, anthropologist and civil servant, who was active in Australia later in his career.\nIt was during his time in Australia that Smith misappropriated the text of 'Legendary Tales of the Australian Abotigines' from the original indigenous author David Unaipon (b.28thSeptember 1872).ref. Legendary Tales ofthe Australian Aborigines, David Unaipon, Ed. Stephen Muecke and Adam Shoemaker: The Miegunyah Press:2006.© The David Unaipon Estate 2001.\n\nSmith was born in King Edward, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, the son of William Smith (a farm servant, and later stationmaster) and his wife Mary \"née\" MacDonald (domestic servant). They lived on the estate of Cairnbanno House near New Deer. He attended the nearby Cairnbanno Public School (which taught using the Madras School system - all pupils also teaching). Winning a Free Church scholarship, from 1877 he studied arts at Edinburgh University and then attended Moray House Training College to train as a teacher for two years.\n\nAt 20 years of age Smith was appointed headmaster of Invergordon Public School, in Easter Ross, but, due to an interest in physiology, he returned to Edinburgh University to study arts and science. He then won an entrance scholarship for Medicine of £100 a year for three years. On completing his medical course in 1885 Smith was appointed assistant-professor of natural history, senior demonstrator of zoology at Edinburgh University. He graduated BSc (natural sciences) in 1888.\n\nIn 1889 'Illustrations of Zoology' was published which he had prepared in collaboration with J. S. Norwell. He graduated MB ChM in 1892. For two years Smith was demonstrator of anatomy at Edinburgh, and served as examiner at the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh. During this period he lived at 4 Grange Loan in the south of Edinburgh.\n\nIn 1896 he travelled to Australia at the request of the Government of South Australia to fill a pathology position at the Royal Adelaide Hospital. Smith was expelled from the British Medical Association and banned from the association for life in 1897 after internal conflict with Hospital staff, but having been exonerated by a Tribunal, in 1899 he was appointed city Coroner and permanent head of the department of health at Adelaide.\n\nIn 1901 during the South African War Smith was surgeon captain, Imperial Bushmen's Corps and officer in charge of plague administration at Cape Town.\n\nSmith was suspended from coronial duties in 1903 after 18 charges were laid against him of the misuse of human remains, specifically the removal of heads and the collection of skeletons for medical research. A board of inquiry headed by James George Russell \nfound that Smith's actions had been \"indiscreet\" and he was dismissed from his position as coroner. However, he was later reinstated and continued his practice of illicitly collecting human remains.\n\nIn 1904 Smith graduated DSc from the University of Adelaide, and published \"A Manual for Coroners\". In his spare time made a special study of the Australian aborigines. Smith was the author of \"The Aborigines of Australia\", which was printed in volume three of the Official 'Year Book of the Commonwealth of Australia' (1910).\n\nIn 1906 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Sir William Turner, Daniel John Cunningham, Alexander Crum Brown and Cargill Gilston Knott.\n\nIn 1913 he published 'Medical Jurisprudence from the Judicial Standpoint', for which he received the degree of MD from Edinburgh University.\n\nIn 1915 was in charge of the Australian General Hospital, Australian Imperial Force, Heliopolis, Egypt. There, he clashed with principal matron Bell over which of them should manage the nursing staff. An Inquiry resulted in both being recalled to Australia.\n\nOn his return to Adelaide, Smith resumed his duties at the board of health and contributed to the 'Australian Encyclopaedia', including a large part of the article on Aborigines. Following a trip to the South Seas Smith published \"In Southern Seas\" (1924); the second half of this book mostly relates to the Australian aborigines.\n\nSmith retired in 1929 and published a book \"Myths of the Australian Aboriginals\" (1930), a collection of narratives as told by aboriginal people. It has subsequently emerged that the volume was plagiarised, and was almost entirely written by the Aboriginal polymath and scientist David Unaipon, who had sold the text to finance his own work. Authorship of the book has now been restored to Uniapon and it has been republished under his name. Smith has also been accused of sales of Aboriginal artefacts for profit.\n\nRamsay Smith was responsible for the bulk of Edinburgh University's physical anthropology collection, some 500 to 600 individuals.\n\nFrom Ramsay Smith's writings, it is clear that he was aware of indigenous funerary customs.\"After death no reference is made to the deceased, nor is his name mentioned. Relations by the same name find a substitute. A mother would not give [me] a lock of her child’s hair because she has been taught that if the child dies, its spirit will find no rest if that lock of hair survives.\" \nAs desecration of human remains was illegal, he used his position as Adelaide’s coroner to illicitly dissect and collect human remains, many being individuals of unusual pathologies or disease, most of which he presented to Edinburgh University. His writings indicate that he also robbed graves and it is believed he had once destroyed five graves to obtain one good specimen. Witnesses also record that he practiced his marksmanship with a .303 rifle on corpses at the mortuary of Adelaide hospital. While he did not receive payment for the remains, he was rewarded for his \"donations\" with Fellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (upon the proposal of Sir William Turner, Daniel John Cunningham, Alexander Crum Brown and Cargill Gilston Knott) and an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Anthropological Institute. He was an honorary member of the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States.\n\nAt his death in 1937, 182 skulls were found in his Adelaide home.\n\nIn addition to numerous books, Ramsay Smith also published pamphlets and contributed largely to scientific journals and \"Chambers Encyclopaedia\". He was interested in literature, philosophy and music, was an excellent public servant, and earned a reputation as an authority on the Australian aborigine.\n\nSmith spent his final years quietly among his books at Belair, South Australia, where he died on 28 September 1937. Smith had married Margaret, daughter of James Mackenzie, on 1 June 1889, who predeceased him. Four daughters and a son survived him.\n"}
