{"id": "23354881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23354881", "title": "2009 Makin airstrike", "text": "2009 Makin airstrike\n\n23 June 2009 Makin airstrike was an attack launched by United States drones on a funeral procession in the city of Makin in South Waziristan, Pakistan. The attack targeted a funeral procession of militants killed earlier in the day in a prior similar strike by drones. About 60 people were reported killed in what is considered perhaps the deadliest strike since the drone attacks started. Other sources claimed up to 83 people were dead. There were reports that Baitullah Mehsud was in the area but escaped unhurt while his deputy Qari Hussain was killed, although this has been disputed. Hussain later phoned reporters to prove he was still alive. The drones fired missiles when Sangeen Khan, an Afghan commander belonging to Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, was holding a meeting soon after the funeral of an associate of Baitullah Mehsud.\n\n"}
{"id": "50021902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50021902", "title": "2016 Nagorno-Karabakh clashes", "text": "2016 Nagorno-Karabakh clashes\n\nThe Four-Day War or April War, began along the Nagorno-Karabakh line of contact on 1 April 2016 with the Artsakh Defense Army, backed by the Armenian Armed Forces, on one side and the Azerbaijani Armed Forces on the other. The clashes occurred in a region that is disputed between the de facto Republic of Artsakh and Azerbaijan. The region includes Nagorno-Karabakh and surrounding areas. Azerbaijani forces sought to regain territory formerly within the Soviet-era Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast. The clashes have been defined as \"the worst\" since the 1994 ceasefire. The battles resulted in the conquest of the Azerbaijani Armed Forces, the hills around the Talish village of Terter and Seysulan village, Lala hill of Jabrayil region and Cocuq Marjanli, Gulustan village of Goranboy region and the ways to Madaqiz village of Terter region were taken back from Armenians.\n\nA ceasefire was reached on 5 April and the agreement was reached between the chiefs of the armed forces of Azerbaijan and Armenia in Moscow, however, both sides accused each other of violations. Azerbaijan claimed to have regained 2,000 hectares of land, while Armenian officials suggested a loss of 800 hectares of land of no strategic importance.\n\nThe US State Department estimated that a total of 350 people—military and civilian—died. Official sources of the warring parties put those estimates either much higher or much lower, depending on the source.\n\nThe Nagorno-Karabakh War ended with a ceasefire agreement between the warring parties that came into effect on 12 May 1994. Since then, both Azerbaijan and Armenia have reported over 7,000 breaches of the ceasefire; more than 100 breaches of the ceasefire were reported and 12 Azerbaijani soldiers had been killed in 2015 alone. The April 2016 clashes have been the most serious breach of the 1994 ceasefire to date.\n\nAmong the possible reasons behind the conflict escalation is Azerbaijan's worsening economy. The has been frequently cited, with clashes being used to distract the Azerbaijani population from rising prices and unemployment.\nAlternatively, some Armenian sources blame Turkey for provoking violence. Some Turkish commentators have suggested a Russian strategy to destabilize the region.\n\nThe fighting has focused mainly on the front line with a length of 257 km. Each side blamed the other for the outbreak of clashes around the towns of Aghdara, Tartar, Agdam, Khojavend, and Fuzuli. According to Armenian sources, on the night of 1 April and early morning of 2 April, the Azerbaijani side launched large-scale attacks along the contact line between Karabakh and Azerbaijan. On 2 April, a 12-year-old Armenian boy was killed as a result of missile artillery attack from a BM-21 Grad near the border with Martuni. Two other children were wounded as well. According to Azerbaijani sources, on 2 April, Azerbaijani positions and inhabited places near the front line came under fire from Armenian military, armed with mortars and high caliber grenade launchers, that killed 2 people and wounded 10 civilians.Armenian Armed Forces violated ceasefire 127 times during the day, using 82 and 120-millimeter mortars and huge machine guns in different directions of the frontline.\nAccording to the Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense, during a rapid counter-offensive, the Armenian side's front defense line was broken in multiple places and several strategic heights and inhabited places were retaken (including the strategically important hill of Lalatapa). An AFP journalist confirmed that the Lalatapa heights were also under Azerbaijani control. The Azerbaijani side claimed that they had captured some areas, including heights near the village of Talysh, as well as the village of Seysulan. Unmanned aerial vehicle of Armenia was shot down in Fuzuli as well.. However, the Ministry of Defence of Nagorno-Karabakh says this claim is untrue. On 8 May the Armenia's First Channel release footage from military positions near Seysulan. 14,400 people living in villages were affected by clashes, but no internal displacement or immediate humanitarian need was reported.\nArmenian Defense Ministry spokesman Artsrun Hovhannisyan sharply accused Azerbaijan of \"launching an unprovoked coordinated ground offensive against Armenia’s forces\", saying the Azerbaijani military used warplanes, tanks and artillery to try to make inroads into Nagorno-Karabakh. During the first day of fighting, Armenian forces claimed to have destroyed at least three Azerbaijani tanks, two military helicopters (including an Mi-24G and at least one armed Mil Mi-8/17) and two unmanned drones, photographs and videos of which surfaced on the internet. Armenian frontline positions were reinforced, heavy artillery was brought forward, and in the NKR capital Stepanakert reservists were called up.\n\nOn 3 April, Armenian military authorities announced that NKR forces had recaptured positions around Talysh, which the Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense claimed was untrue. On 6 April, news footage shown on Armenia's First Channel revealed Armenian journalists and NKR troops freely mingling on the streets of Talysh and Madagiz. On 8 April, news footage shown on an Azerbaijani TV channel showed the Azerbaijan military installations purported to be near the Talysh heights. On 11 April, news footage from Armenia's First channel showed the Talysh heights under the control of NKR troops. Again on 8 May, news footage from Civilnet showed journalist Tatul Hakobyan with some NKR soldiers at Talysh heights near Naftalan. Later, Defense Minister Zakir Hasanov stated that if shelling of Azerbaijani settlements by Armenian forces did not cease, Azerbaijan would consider launching an artillery bombardment on Stepanakert. On the same day, the Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense announced a unilateral end to hostilities. The Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense stated that should Armenian shelling pursue, Azerbaijan would continue its offensive.\n\nOn 4 April, the Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense reported that an Armenian command and control center had been destroyed and released a video which captured footage of the attack. On 5 April, a strategically important military base in Madaghis which is on the main road leading to Aghdara city and a bus carrying \"Yerkrapah\" armenian volunteers were fired. The Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense claimed that along with numerous military personnel, two high-ranking Armenian officers were killed as a result. The three deceased Armenian lieutenant colonels, were identified as Roman V. Poghosyan, Alexan G. Arakelyan, and Gregorian K. Onik, along with one unidentified colonel. The same day, the Armenian defense ministry announced that an Azerbaijani drone, identified as an Israeli-made IAI Harop, attacked a bus carrying Armenian volunteers enlisting in military service to the Nagorno-Karabakh town of Martakert by slamming itself against it, killing seven people aboard including the heads of two rural communities within the NKR. It is believed to be the first ever combat use of the drone\nanywhere. An Israeli-made ThunderB surveillance drone was shot down on 2 April according to the NK defense force. Armenian officials later protested Israel's supply of weaponry to Azerbaijan. Some Azerbaijani sources claimed that Mataghis was under Azerbaijani control, citing Azerbaijan Ministry of Defense but Armenian side says this is not true because they repelled an Azerbaijani offensive allegedly backed by Turkey. Later Armenian side published video to prove that Mataghis remain in their control.\n\nOn 5 April, Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense announced that the mutual ceasefire agreement, which was got in Moscow by the head of Azerbaijan and Armenia's Armed Forces, was breached by Armenian forces which shelled Azerbaijani positions near Tap Qaraqoyunlu with 60, 82 and 120 mm mortars.\nAccording to Azerbaijani claims Armenian Armed Forces directed high caliber artillery fire at a mosque (in Əhmədağalı, one civilian dead), schools (in Seydimli, one schoolboy injured) and residential buildings as well as civilian infrastructure. Damage to houses in Azerbaijan by Armenian artillery fire was reported in the Russian press.\nAccording to Azerbaijan, on 7 April, Armenian armed forces shelled an ambulance evacuating injured Azerbaijani civilians near Aghdara-Goranboy.. Also, on 7 April, Armenian \"X-55\" style drone, that tried to realize flights in the battle-field,was become harmless by Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense with special ways.\nThe Ministry of Defence of Nagorno-Karabakh published some aerial photos to prove that Azerbaijan deploys military units near populated areas and violated the Article 52 of Geneva Convention. During a BBC visit to Azerbaijan's side of frontline, a team of BBC journalists asked to see and ensure where the alleged military objects are placed but the Azerbaijani Defense Ministry refused for \"safety reasons\".\nOn 8 April, artillery fire was exchanged between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces, with the Armenians reporting two soldiers killed. A temporary ceasefire agreement mediated by the International Committee of the Red Cross and field assistants of the OSCE, allowed for both sides to collect dead and missing soldiers.\nOn 14 April, the Azerbaijani government reported that one of its soldiers had been killed by Armenian forces on the line of contact. \nOn 15 April, Nagorno-Karabakh reported one of its soldiers had been killed in action with Azerbaijani forces. \nA soldier of the Nagorno Karabakh military was reported killed in action with Azerbaijani forces on 19 April. \nFurther skirmishes occurred on 21 April, killing another Nagorno-Karabakh soldier.\n\nIn the course of the clashes, mortar shells fired from the conflict area hit a village in the northwestern Iranian province of East Azerbaijan, but no casualties or damages were reported.\n\nAccording to Armenian officials, residents of Talysh and Madagiz had been evacuated and provided with shelter in other parts of the region. Armenian and international reporters announced that after Talysh was retaken by Armenian troops, an elderly Armenian couple had been found shot in their home and their corpses had been mutilated. According to these reports, Azerbaijani soldiers also killed another elderly woman. Photographs of corpses with ears cut off revived memories of the atrocities of the 1988–1994 war observed a Le Monde reporter. According to the Russia's leading human rights lawyer, the head of the International Protection Centre Karinna Moskalenko, complaints about these facts of violence against the civilian population are already prepared to be sent to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). Azerbaijan's Ministry of Defense denied these reports.\n\nOn 4 April, it was reported that Azerbaijani forces decapitated the body of a Yazidi-Armenian soldier, Kyaram Sloyan, who had been killed in action, with videos and pictures of his severed head posted on social networks. According to \"The Sunday Times\", it included \"shocking souvenir photos of uniformed Azerbaijani soldiers posing with the severed head\". Azerbaijani sources rejected this claim as false. On 3 May Azerbaijani Defense Ministry denied this information and claimed that all the bodies of the Armenian soldiers were handed over in the presence of international observers, and no traces of violence were detected on the bodies. Sloyan's body was buried without its head on 5 April 2016, in his native village of Artashavan. On 8 April, through the mediation of the Red Cross, the Azerbaijani side returned Sloyan's head. Sloyan was interred for a second time the following day, to lay his head with his body. According to Regnum News Agency and \"KavNews\" Russian agency, during his visit to Terter, Agdam and Barda districts, President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev awarded the Azerbaijani soldier who had posed with the severed head of Sloyan. Armenian Deputy Foreign Minister Shavarsh Kocharyan condemned the encouragement of the Azerbaijani serviceman who was depicted on another photo where the mutilated head of Sloyan was manifestly shown.\n\nOn 8 April, Artak Beglaryan, a spokesperson for the NKR Prime Minister, posted a photo on his Twitter account showing the beheaded corpse of an Armenian soldier. He called the beheading in a Tweet a \"barbaric act & Daesh/ISIS style war crime.\" According to the public report of the Human Right's defender (ombudsman) of NKR, \"the facts of beheading Hayk Toroyan, Kyaram Sloyan, and Hrant Gharibyan by the Azerbaijani troops, as well as the torturing and mutilation of 18 NKR army members constitute grave breaches of customary international law\". Azerbaijan's Ministry of Defense denied these reports.\n\nRelatives of three Armenian soldiers killed and beheaded during the escalation filed a complaint against Azerbaijan to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). The plaintiffs demand to recognize the case of inhuman treatment with regard to the bodies, lack of respect for their privacy, and discrimination based on nationality.\n\nIn April 2016 the European Ombudsman Institute (EOI) issued a statement that condemns any violation of human rights regarding civilians and attacks on civilian objects in Nagorno-Karabakh. According to EOI, \"civilian citizens of Nagorno-Karabakh were inhumanly treated without any respect and by that offended in their dignity\". \"We are concerned by the information received, that peaceful civilians were killed in the Nagorno-Karabakh settlements through partly cruel and inhuman methods of execution. All these operations constitute gross violations of human rights; they are opposed to European human rights and human values; they significantly endanger the European system for the protection and promotion of human rights\".\n\nRepresentatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) have stated their intentions to report the beheadings and other human rights violations allegedly conducted by Azerbaijan to the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights. The co-rapporteurs said: \"We are going to submit a report to the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights on the fact of murdering and beheading of a conscript, and then publicizing it.\"\n\nHALO Trust reported that Azerbaijan had dropped rocket-dispensed cluster bombs around civilian settlements in NKR.\n\nOn 17 May 2016 Azerbaijani Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that on 11 May the Armenian military had used 122-mm calibre white phosphorus munitions prohibited by the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons against Azerbaijani civilians and civilian objects. On 11 May military attaches from 13 countries reviewed the territory in the Askipara village where the white phosphorus munition had been fired. The usage of phosphorus munition by the Armenian military was also reported by Al Jazeera. Azerbaijani Military Prosecutor's Office initiated a criminal case upon the finding. However NKR foreign ministry and Armenia defense ministry says this is a falsification and distortion of the reality.\n\nOn 10 April, the State Commission on Prisoners of War, Hostages and Missing Persons of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic said that of the 18 bodies of Armenian soldiers transferred that same day by Azerbaijan, all showed signs of torture or mutilation. The Commission called these acts \"a flagrant manifestation of inhumanity, run counter to the laws and customs of war and are in grave violation of the international humanitarian law\", adding that the Karabakh side will ensure that \"such behavior of the Azerbaijani side is condemned in strongest terms by the international community and the specialized agencies\". Azerbaijan's Ministry of Defense denied the accusations and claimed that the transferred bodies of Azerbaijani servicemen had been mutilated by the Armenian side. The NKR State Commission on Prisoners of War, Hostages and Missing Persons called this claim by Azerbaijan a cynical attempt to mislead the international community, observing that before the start of the exchange procedure, all the bodies of the dead soldiers had been examined in the presence of representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross, and no traces of abuse or ill-treatment had been discovered or registered on Azerbaijani soldiers.\n\nAccording to the US State Department, Azerbaijan \"took a huge number of casualties, including comparatively\", although the number was not specified. Overall, a senior member of the US State Department estimated 350 casualties on both sides, including civilians. According to the Russian analytical center Ostkraft the Azerbaijan army stopped its offensive against Karabakh because 800 Azerbaijani soldiers died during the clashes.\n\nOfficial estimates of the warring parties are far apart from each other. According to official statements of the involved sides, 90 Armenian and 31 Azerbaijani soldiers were killed during the clashes, and several pieces of military equipment from both sides were destroyed. Also according to official statements, ten civilians (6 Azerbaijani and 4 Armenian) were killed in the conflict.\n\nVarious non-official Azerbaijani sources, per research of social networks, put the actual number of Azerbaijani soldiers killed at 94, while two remain missing.\n\nAccording to Christoph Bierwirth, UNHCR representative in Armenia, more than 2,000 people left Nagorno-Karabakh for Armenia amid the clashes.\n\nIn the aftermath, there was no conclusive assessment on the outcome of the clashes. Neil Melvin, director of the armed conflict and conflict management programme at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, stated that \"Azerbaijan suffered heavy losses for relatively minor territorial gains, this is nonetheless seen as a victory, after 25 years of a sense of having been defeated\".\n\nSeveral analysts noted that the clashes did not result in significant changes. Matthew Bodner wrote in \"The Moscow Times\" on 6 April that \"the previous status quo has been more-or-less preserved.\" Independent Armenian journalist Tatul Hakobyan, who visited the fighting scene during the clashes, remarked that the death of scores of soldiers of both sides was \"senseless\" as no real change occurred. He stated: \"Azerbaijan did not win and Armenia did not lose.\" Russian military expert Vladimir Yevseyev said that the Azerbaijani offensive, despite initial victory, was not a success because the Azerbaijani side has numerous killed soldiers and destroyed tanks.\nThe International Crisis Group assessment stated that Azerbaijan gained \"small but strategically important pieces of land\". Russian military analyst Pavel Felgenhauer believes that Azerbaijan \"won the first round of fighting\". Former minister of defense of Nagorno-Karabakh Samvel Babayan stated that the territories gained by Azerbaijan have strategic importance, and they were lost by Armenians within one hour. Karabakh and Armenia government rejected his criticism.\n\nChatham House fellow Zaur Shiriyev, suggested that Azerbaijan prompted a \"carefully controlled escalation [that] served to raise international awareness of the fragility of a status quo which Azerbaijan regards as unfavourable, in order to galvanize the international mediators and put pressure on Yerevan to be constructive at the negotiating table.\" British journalist Thomas de Waal, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and author of \"Black Garden: Armenia and Azerbaijan Through Peace and War\", does not believe that the Azerbaijani offensive was meant as a full-scale military operation but rather as a limited attempt to bring the conflict back on the international agenda and put Armenia under pressure. He believes that after the April violence, the conflict is unlikely to return to its semi-quiet state and that a new round of fighting would be harder to contain than previous conflicts.\n\nChristine Philippe-Blumauer noted, \"Russian official reactions suggest that Russian troops would not actually decide to intervene in favor of the Armenian side, should the conflict scale-up to a fully-fledged war yet again.\"\n\nRussia was the one who benefited most from the four-day-clashes. During the early days of the conflict, Moscow adopted a reserved attitude, and after within only few hours, most probably brokered the ceasefire. The OSCE Minsk Group organized a meeting only after several days the conflict sparked, and the parties declared the ceasefire even before the meeting took place.\n\nFollowing the conflict, Russia started to increase political and ecnonomic ties with both Azerbaijan and Armenia. In Yerevan, Gazprom agreed to increase gus supply to Armenia, and decreased the price of gas, which was already low. In Baku, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov had a discussion about a railway line from Russia to Iran through Azerbaijan. However, Russia alone is not entirely stabilising influence. Dmitry Rogozin, a deputy prime minister said that Moscow is the biggest supplier of arms to both sides and will continue to be so in the future. People who worked on the settlement process said that none of the sides would have trust in a permanent peace established by Russia alone. As the former US ambassador to the Minsk Group, Mr Bryza puts it, \"The key to resolving this is to get the two presidents to have sufficient trust in each other, and Russia is not going to be able to do that\". \n\nArmenian Defense Ministry Spokesman Artsrun Hovhannisyan stated that the Azerbaijani attempted to take part of northern Karabakh with a \"blitzkrieg\", which failed. After a ceasefire was reached NKR Defense Army Colonel Victor Arustamyan said that one military position was left under Azerbaijani control, which was of no strategic significance.\n\nOn 24 April President Serzh Sargsyan acknowledged that Azerbaijani troops had taken very small pieces of land in the north and south of the contact line, which he said had no strategic importance for Armenian forces, who had not attempted to reclaim them to avoid additional loss of life. On 17 May Sargsyan stated that the Armenian side had lost control of \"800 hectares of land having neither tactical not strategic importance\",\n\nOn 26 April 2016 Sargsyan fired 3 senior Armenian army officials, including the chiefs of the Logistics, the Intelligence and the Communications Departments, a move which was apparently influenced by the public criticism of the high death toll among the Armenian soldiers.\n\nPresident Sargsyan stated that Armenia would formally recognize the independence of Nagorno-Karabakh \"if the military operations continue and acquire a large scale.\" On 5 May 2016 the Government of Armenia approved the bill on recognition of the independence of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (Artsakh). It was announced, that the recognition of the independence of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic is \"due to the results of discussions between Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh, [and] considering further developments, including external factors.\"\n\nAzerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev initially claimed the clashes were a \"great victory\" for Azerbaijan.\n\nAzerbaijani Ministry of Defense claimed that the Azerbaijani armed forces remain in control of strategic heights near the village of Talysh. Responding to Sargsyan's claim on the Armenian troops' loss of 800 ha of territory, Azerbaijani Ministry of Defense stated that the Azerbaijani military took control of 2000 hectares of territory. In the opinion of analyst Rizvan Huseynov, posted at the state oil company owned media CBC, \"Nearly 5% of occupied territories returned\" (nearly 57 290 hectares of territory)\n\nAzerbaijani opposition websites say Azerbaijan long-serving chief of general staff Najmaddin Sadigov may be replaced over 4-day war by the First Corps Commander and deputy Nizami Osmanov, but this was refuted by the Ministry of Defense spokesman.\n\nA number of Armenian military servicemen were awarded by orders and medals of Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. Junior sergeant Robert Abajyan was posthumously awarded with Hero of Artsakh which is the highest honorary title of NKR. He became the youngest person ever to hold the title at 19 years old.\n\n19 April 2016 Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev signed orders on awarding honorary titles, orders and medals to a group of Azerbaijani military servicemen. Among them Lieutenant Colonel Shukur Hamidov, Lieutenant Colonel Murad Mirzayev and Major Samid Imanov were awarded with the medal of National Hero of Azerbaijan. Colonel Mais Barkhudarov was awarded with the rank of general-major by the Azerbaijani President because of his personally participation in the military operation over Lalatapa height.\n\nAli Karimli, the leader of Azerbaijani Popular Front party, who criticized the Azerbaijani government over its actions during the clashes, became a subject of a series of protests (the latest one held on 12 April in front of Karimli’s house), organized by the authorities. The protesters also demanded to exile him from the country. According to the human rights lawyer Intigam Aliyev, attacks against Karimli are simply diverting attention from truly important issues and testing technologies to distract people’s justified anger caused by the serious consequences of wrong decisions.\n\nRussian TV channel Dozhd reported that the Azerbaijani authorities launched a criminal case against the direction and journalists of the Azerbaijani independent channel Meydan TV because of the publication of the list of Azerbaijani soldiers killed during the clashes in Nagorno-Karabakh. Their list consisted of 94 names, while the Defense Ministry of Azerbaijan confirmed only 31 deaths. According to the Meydan TV chief editor Emin Milli, each person on their list really died in the clashes, and he stated that the Ministry of Defense of Azerbaijan could not deny this information.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe societal reactions to the April clashes were different in Armenia and Azerbaijan. In Azerbaijan, the clashes surged patriotism in the public, and thousands of people volunteered to fight, yet the Ministry of Defence did not allow them to do so. Even people with the critical voice could not hide their surprise at the intense and quick social mobilization. For this reason, the decleration of the ceasefire on April 5 led to the sense of dissapointment in the public. In Armenia, following the ceasefire, demonstrations took place in Yerevan, which were caused by the anti-Russian attitudes that objected to Moscow’s arms sales to Baku. Even though the Armenian officials firstly emphasized the effective performance of the Armenian army, there was a growing public dissapointment about the complacency and corruption in the army. Out-of-date equipment and poor communication lines were believed to be the cause for the death of many Armenian soldiers within the first few hours of the clashes. After the decleration of the ceasefire, four high-ranking army officials were dismissed from their position. \n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "52050192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52050192", "title": "Ajdar Ismailov", "text": "Ajdar Ismailov\n\nAjdar Ismailov (full name: \"Ajdar Tagi Ismailov\"; b. April 23, 1938, Chomakhtur, Sherur raion, Nakhchivan ASSR, Azerbaijan SSR, USSR), Professor Doctor of philological sciences, one of the 91st, one of the most active founders of New Azerbaijan Party.\n\nAjdar Ismailov finished Azerbaijan State University, the faculty of philology in 1961.\nHe was a teacher, school director, worker of \"Sherg gapisi\" newspaper of Ministry of Internal Affairs, in 1961-1977 and a teacher of literature in Nakhchivan State University, senior teacher as assistant professor and professor, in 1977-1994.\n\nHe was the candidate of Literature Institute at Azerbaijan SSR Academy of Sciences named Nizami in 1969. He defended his candidacy dissertation \"The historical dramas of Huseyn Javid\" (\"The Prophet\", \"Topal Teymur\", \"Seyavush\", \"Khayyam\") under the leadership of academician Mammad Arif Dadashzade, the vice president of Academy, in 1974.\n\nHe started to research for a doctoral thesis the topic of \"Huseyn Javid's creative work and demonism tradition in world literature\" confirmed at The Scientific Council of Literature Institute named after Nizami, in 1982. In here, the Huseyn Javid romanticism source is told to be started from Zarvan (Avesta) philosophy, contrary to the thoughts that the formation of Azerbaijan romanticism is related to the affairs of 1905-1917. The poet's devotion to the creative ways of prominent figures was researched in the demonism context, especially the Turkish \"Tenzimat literature\" from the point of view of philosophy / aesthetics. The development issues and sequel of demonism traditions at world romanticism in H. Javid legacy were researched in the book. Ajdar Ismailov indicated the philosophical idea, mythological fiction roots of H.Javid creativity and he researched national and universal motives in poet's world.\n\nHe had been playing an active role in political life of Azerbaijan, since the end of 1980. He was against the invasion policy of Kreml, he supported H. Aliyev to back again to active politics and played a great role in establishment of the New Azerbaijan Party.\n\n\n<poem>\n1. In front of the 250th birth anniversary of Molla Panah Vagif – Singer of beauty and love – “Sherg Gapisi”, September 5, 1968. 4th page.\n2. Some specialties of Javid theatre – Gobustan 1972 #4. Pages: 16-20\n3. Some features of H. Javid’s historical dramas – The 10th scientific meeting of council of Scientific Academy – thesis. Baki, 1973. Pages: 25-28\n4. The people and hero problems – Ulduz magazine 1973, #5. Pages: 62-64\n5. The free woman problem in H. Javid creativity – Azerbaijan magazine 1973, #7\n6. H. Javid and Shakespeare (Iblis - Othello) – Science and Life magazine, 1976, #9. Pages: 22-24\n7. H. Javid and Byron – Science and Life magazine\n8. H. Javid and Goethe – Science and Life magazine, 1980, #1. Pages: 35-38\n9. H. Javid and Shakespeare – Gobustan, 1981, #1. Pages: 15-17\n10. Javid, Jabbarli and Azerbaijan Soviet Theatre – Newspaper of “Azerbaijani teacher”, #65 (3159), 15.08.1979\n11. Tracking a myth. Soviet Nakhchivan paper. 27.01.1980\n12. Belief in sun in Azerbaijan – Soviet Nakhchivan paper #176 (12999) 26.07.1981\n13. Spring holiday of our great ancestor – Soviet Nakhchivan paper #69, (14410) 18.03.1986\n14. …It’s the holy path we go on! – Sherur front – January 26, 1990, #4-5. P: 2\n15. Where is our way – Sherg Gapisi #142 (15.682) – June 30, 1990. P: 3\n16. Islamic fundamentalism: fictions, realities – Sherg Gapisi paper, #215 (15.755) – September 22, 1990. Pages: 2-3\n17. Russian Empire troops at Sherur borders – Sherur fights frontal bulletin – Sherur print house, December 1990 #1\n18. Today of old Sederek global situation – Azerbaijan magazine, 1991, #11\n19. Open letter to secretary-in-chief of Azerbaijan National Centre in Turkey, Ahmad Garaja from Nakhchivan (1st part) – Ses (Voice) paper, #41 (70) 01.10.1992\n20. Open letter to secretary-in-chief of Azerbaijan National Centre in Turkey, Ahmad Garaja from Nakhchivan (2nd part) – Ses (Voice) paper, #39 (68) 17.10.1992\n21. The leader of our party is the people – Ses (Voice) paper 09.12.1992\n22. The leader of our party is the people – Nakhchivan paper, #83 (267) 29.11.1997\n23. The New Azerbaijan Party is the party of future – Yeni Azerbaycan Paper, #92 (267) 29.11.1997\n24. I beg from almighty God – “For the victory” paper, #3-4 (3-4) 10.05.1999\n25. XXI century must be the century of Azerbaijan language and Azerbaijan ideology in our national history – “Iki sahil” paper. 24.06.2001. (the interview was taken by Yegane Aliyeva)\n26. The relation between “old Armenian statehood” illusion or “ishkil” (Outcast dog) ethnicity and “hay and armyan” meaning. “Iki sahil” paper. 31.10.2001\n27. The relation between “old Armenian statehood” illusion or “ishkil” (Outcast dog) ethnicity and “hay and armyan” meaning. “Iki sahil” paper. 02.11.2001\n28. The relation between “old Armenian statehood” illusion or “ishkil” (Outcast dog) ethnicity and “hay and armyan” meaning. “Iki sahil” paper. 03.11.2001\n29. The relation between “old Armenian statehood” illusion or “ishkil” (Outcast dog) ethnicity and “hay and armyan” meaning. “Iki sahil” paper. 06.11.2001\n30. The relation between “old Armenian statehood” illusion or “ishkil” (Outcast dog) ethnicity and “hay and armyan” meaning. “Iki sahil” paper. 07.11.2001\n31. The closest friend and companion – “Free Azerbaijan”, #62 (820) 27.04.2005 (The interview was taken by Haji Tofig Seyidov)\n32. We need solidarity – national solidarity! 30.09.2006 (national solidarity interview)\n33. The problems of 15-year-old NAP (YAP) – National Solidarity #9 (29). 21.09.2007. (The Ruhiyya Nasimigizi interview)\n34. The historical realities about “The 26 Baku Commissars” or who are the 3 commissars without grave? – “Khalg” (People) paper-April 19, 2009. P: 4[9]\n35. There are no notions of honor, dignity and pride in Armenian. National Solidarity #04 (47). 30.04.2009. (The Ruhiyya Nasimigizi interview).\n36. Is it true to translate from Turkish to Turkish? (The National Solidarity paper interview) 31.01.2009\n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "52527741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52527741", "title": "Alice König", "text": "Alice König\n\nAlice König lectures in Latin and Classical Studies and is Director of the Centre for the Literatures of the Roman Empire at the University of St Andrews.\n\nKönig studied for her BA and MPhil at King's College, Cambridge, and her PhD at St. John's College, Cambridge. She was the chair of the research network for \"Literary Interactions under Nerva, Trajan & Hadrian\", a British Academy funded project. König is a member of the Young Academy of Scotland established by the Royal Society of Edinburgh. She has appeared on the BBC Radio 4 In Our Time panel as an expert on \"Agrippina the Younger\" (2016), \"Pliny the Younger\" (2013) and \"Vitruvius' De Architectura\" (2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "49005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49005", "title": "Atlantic slave trade", "text": "Atlantic slave trade\n\nThe Atlantic slave trade or transatlantic slave trade involved the transportation by slave traders of enslaved African people, mainly to the Americas. The slave trade regularly used the triangular trade route and its Middle Passage, and existed from the 16th to the 19th centuries. The vast majority of those who were enslaved and transported in the transatlantic slave trade were people from central and western Africa, who had been sold by other West Africans to Western European slave traders (with a small number being captured directly by the slave traders in coastal raids), who brought them to the Americas. The South Atlantic and Caribbean economies especially were dependent on the supply of secure labour for the production of commodity crops, making goods and clothing to sell in Europe. This was crucial to those western European countries which, in the late 17th and 18th centuries, were vying with each other to create overseas empires.\n\nThe Portuguese were the first to engage in the Atlantic slave trade in the 16th century. In 1526, they completed the first transatlantic slave voyage to Brazil, and other European countries soon followed. Shipowners regarded the slaves as cargo to be transported to the Americas as quickly and cheaply as possible, there to be sold to work on coffee, tobacco, cocoa, sugar and cotton plantations, gold and silver mines, rice fields, construction industry, cutting timber for ships, in skilled labour, and as domestic servants. The first Africans imported to the English colonies were classified as \"indentured servants\", like workers coming from England, and also as \"apprentices for life\". By the middle of the 17th century, slavery had hardened as a racial caste, with the slaves and their offspring being legally the property of their owners, and children born to slave mothers were also slaves. As property, the people were considered merchandise or units of labour, and were sold at markets with other goods and services.\n\nThe major Atlantic slave trading nations, ordered by trade volume, were: the Portuguese, the British, the French, the Spanish, and the Dutch Empires. Several had established outposts on the African coast where they purchased slaves from local African leaders. These slaves were managed by a factor who was established on or near the coast to expedite the shipping of slaves to the New World. Slaves were kept in a factory while awaiting shipment. Current estimates are that about 12 million Africans were shipped across the Atlantic, although the number purchased by the traders was considerably higher, as the passage had a high death rate. Near the beginning of the 19th century, various governments acted to ban the trade, although illegal smuggling still occurred. In the early 21st century, several governments issued apologies for the transatlantic slave trade.\n\nThe Atlantic slave trade developed after trade contacts were established between the \"Old World\" (Afro-Eurasia) and the \"New World\" (the Americas). For centuries, tidal currents had made ocean travel particularly difficult and risky for the ships that were then available, and as such there had been very little, if any, maritime contact between the peoples living in these continents. In the 15th century, however, new European developments in seafaring technologies resulted in ships being better equipped to deal with the tidal currents, and could begin traversing the Atlantic Ocean. Between 1600 and 1800, approximately 300,000 sailors engaged in the slave trade visited West Africa. In doing so, they came into contact with societies living along the west African coast and in the Americas which they had never previously encountered. Historian Pierre Chaunu termed the consequences of European navigation \"disenclavement\", with it marking an end of isolation for some societies and an increase in inter-societal contact for most others.\n\nHistorian John Thornton noted, \"A number of technical and geographical factors combined to make Europeans the most likely people to explore the Atlantic and develop its commerce\". He identified these as being the drive to find new and profitable commercial opportunities outside Europe as well as the desire to create an alternative trade network to that controlled by the Muslim Empire of the Middle East, which was viewed as a commercial, political and religious threat to European Christendom. In particular, European traders wanted to trade for gold, which could be found in western Africa, and also to find a maritime route to \"the Indies\" (India), where they could trade for luxury goods such as spices without having to obtain these items from Middle Eastern Islamic traders.\n\nAlthough many of the initial Atlantic naval explorations were led by Iberians, members of many European nationalities were involved, including sailors from Portugal, Spain, the Italian kingdoms, England, France and the Netherlands. This diversity led Thornton to describe the initial \"exploration of the Atlantic\" as \"a truly international exercise, even if many of the dramatic discoveries were made under the sponsorship of the Iberian monarchs\". That leadership later gave rise to the myth that \"the Iberians were the sole leaders of the exploration\".\n\nSlavery was prevalent in many parts of Africa for many centuries before the beginning of the Atlantic slave trade. There is evidence that enslaved people from some parts of Africa were exported to states in Africa, Europe, and Asia prior to the European colonization of the Americas.\n\nThe Atlantic slave trade was not the only slave trade from Africa, although it was the largest in volume and intensity. As Elikia M'bokolo wrote in \"Le Monde diplomatique\":\n\nAccording to John K. Thornton, Europeans usually bought enslaved people who were captured in endemic warfare between African states. Some Africans had made a business out of capturing Africans from neighboring ethnic groups or war captives and selling them. A reminder of this practice is documented in the Slave Trade Debates of England in the early 19th century: \"All the old writers ... concur in stating not only that wars are entered into for the sole purpose of making slaves, but that they are fomented by Europeans, with a view to that object.\" People living around the Niger River were transported from these markets to the coast and sold at European trading ports in exchange for muskets and manufactured goods such as cloth or alcohol. However, the European demand for slaves provided a large new market for the already existing trade. While those held in slavery in their own region of Africa might hope to escape, those shipped away had little chance of returning to Africa.\n\nUpon discovering new lands through their naval explorations, European colonisers soon began to migrate to and settle in lands outside their native continent. Off the coast of Africa, European migrants, under the directions of the Kingdom of Castile, invaded and colonised the Canary Islands during the 15th century, where they converted much of the land to the production of wine and sugar. Along with this, they also captured native Canary Islanders, the Guanches, to use as slaves both on the Islands and across the Christian Mediterranean.\n\nAs historian John Thornton remarked, \"the actual motivation for European expansion and for navigational breakthroughs was little more than to exploit the opportunity for immediate profits made by raiding and the seizure or purchase of trade commodities\". Using the Canary Islands as a naval base, Europeans, at the time primarily Portuguese traders, began to move their activities down the western coast of Africa, performing raids in which slaves would be captured to be later sold in the Mediterranean. Although initially successful in this venture, \"it was not long before African naval forces were alerted to the new dangers, and the Portuguese [raiding] ships began to meet strong and effective resistance\", with the crews of several of them being killed by African sailors, whose boats were better equipped at traversing the west African coasts and river systems.\n\nBy 1494, the Portuguese king had entered agreements with the rulers of several West African states that would allow trade between their respective peoples, enabling the Portuguese to \"tap into\" the \"well-developed commercial economy in Africa ... without engaging in hostilities\". \"Peaceful trade became the rule all along the African coast\", although there were some rare exceptions when acts of aggression led to violence. For instance, Portuguese traders attempted to conquer the Bissagos Islands in 1535. In 1571 Portugal, supported by the Kingdom of Kongo, took control of the south-western region of Angola in order to secure its threatened economic interest in the area. Although Kongo later joined a coalition in 1591 to force the Portuguese out, Portugal had secured a foothold on the continent that it continued to occupy until the 20th century. Despite these incidences of occasional violence between African and European forces, many African states ensured that any trade went on in their own terms, for instance, imposing custom duties on foreign ships. In 1525, the Kongolese king, Afonso I, seized a French vessel and its crew for illegally trading on his coast.\n\nHistorians have widely debated the nature of the relationship between these African kingdoms and the European traders. The Guyanese historian Walter Rodney (1972) has argued that it was an unequal relationship, with Africans being forced into a \"colonial\" trade with the more economically developed Europeans, exchanging raw materials and human resources (i.e. slaves) for manufactured goods. He argued that it was this economic trade agreement dating back to the 16th century that led to Africa being underdeveloped in his own time. These ideas were supported by other historians, including Ralph Austen (1987). This idea of an unequal relationship was contested by John Thornton (1998), who argued that \"the Atlantic slave trade was not nearly as critical to the African economy as these scholars believed\" and that \"African manufacturing [at this period] was more than capable of handling competition from preindustrial Europe\". However, Anne Bailey, commenting on Thornton's suggestion that Africans and Europeans were equal partners in the Atlantic slave trade, wrote:\n\nThe Atlantic slave trade is customarily divided into two eras, known as the First and Second Atlantic Systems.\n\nThe First Atlantic system was the trade of enslaved Africans to, primarily, South American colonies of the Portuguese and Spanish empires; it accounted for slightly more than 3% of all Atlantic slave trade. It started (on a significant scale) in about 1502 and lasted until 1580 when Portugal was temporarily united with Spain. While the Portuguese were directly involved in trading enslaved peoples, the Spanish empire relied on the asiento system, awarding merchants (mostly from other countries) the license to trade enslaved people to their colonies. During the first Atlantic system, most of these traders were Portuguese, giving them a near-monopoly during the era. Some Dutch, English, and French traders also participated in the slave trade. After the union, Portugal came under Spanish legislation that prohibited it from directly engaging in the slave trade as a carrier. It became a target for the traditional enemies of Spain, losing a large share of the trade to the Dutch, English, and French.\n\nThe Second Atlantic system was the trade of enslaved Africans by mostly English, Portuguese, French and Dutch traders. The main destinations of this phase were the Caribbean colonies and Brazil, as European nations built up economically slave-dependent colonies in the New World. Slightly more than 3% of the enslaved people exported from Africa were traded between 1450 and 1600, and 16% in the 17th century.\n\nIt is estimated that more than half of the entire slave trade took place during the 18th century, with the British, Portuguese and French being the main carriers of nine out of ten slaves abducted in Africa. By the 1690s, the English were shipping the most slaves from West Africa. They maintained this position during the 18th century, becoming the biggest shippers of slaves across the Atlantic. By the 18th century, Angola had become one of the principal sources of the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nFollowing the British and United States' bans on the African slave trade in 1808, it declined, but the period after still accounted for 28.5% of the total volume of the Atlantic slave trade.\nA burial ground in Campeche, Mexico, suggests slaves had been brought there not long after Hernán Cortés completed the subjugation of Aztec and Mayan Mexico in the 16th century. The graveyard had been in use from approximately 1550 to the late 17th century.\n\nThe first side of the triangle was the export of goods from Europe to Africa. A number of African kings and merchants took part in the trading of enslaved people from 1440 to about 1833. For each captive, the African rulers would receive a variety of goods from Europe. These included guns, ammunition, and other factory-made goods. The second leg of the triangle exported enslaved Africans across the Atlantic Ocean to the Americas and the Caribbean Islands. The third and final part of the triangle was the return of goods to Europe from the Americas. The goods were the products of slave-labour plantations and included cotton, sugar, tobacco, molasses and rum. Sir John Hawkins, considered the pioneer of the British slave trade, was the first to run the Triangular trade, making a profit at every stop.\n\nThe Atlantic Slave Trade was the result of, among other things, labour shortage, itself in turn created by the desire of European colonists to exploit New World land and resources for capital profits. Native peoples were at first utilized as slave labour by Europeans until a large number died from overwork and Old World diseases. Alternative sources of labour, such as indentured servitude, failed to provide a sufficient workforce.\nMany crops could not be sold for profit, or even grown, in Europe. Exporting crops and goods from the New World to Europe often proved to be more profitable than producing them on the European mainland. A vast amount of labour was needed to create and sustain plantations that required intensive labour to grow, harvest, and process prized tropical crops. Western Africa (part of which became known as \"the Slave Coast\"), Angola and nearby Kingdoms and later Central Africa, became the source for enslaved people to meet the demand for labour.\n\nThe basic reason for the constant shortage of labour was that, with large amounts of cheap land available and lots of landowners searching for workers, free European immigrants were able to become landowners themselves after a relatively short time, thus increasing the need for workers.\n\nThomas Jefferson attributed the use of slave labour in part to the climate, and the consequent idle leisure afforded by slave labour: \"For in a warm climate, no man will labour for himself who can make another labour for him. This is so true, that of the proprietors of slaves a very small proportion indeed are ever seen to labour.\"\n\nAfricans played a direct role in the slave trade, selling their captives or prisoners of war to European buyers. The prisoners and captives who were sold were usually from neighbouring or enemy ethnic groups. These captive slaves were considered \"other\", not part of the people of the ethnic group or \"tribe\"; African kings held no particular loyalty to them. Sometimes criminals would be sold so that they could no longer commit crimes in that area. Most other slaves were obtained from kidnappings, or through raids that occurred at gunpoint through joint ventures with the Europeans. But some African kings refused to sell any of their captives or criminals. King Jaja of Opobo, a former slave, refused to do business with the slavers completely. \n\nAfricans also participated in the slave trade through intermarriage, or \"cassare\", meaning \"to set up house\". It is derived from the Portuguese word \"casar\", meaning \"to marry\". Cassare created political and economic bonds between European and African slave traders. Cassare was a pre-European practice used to integrate the \"other\" from a differing African tribe. Powerful West African groups used these marriages as an alliance used to strengthen their trade networks with European men by marrying off African women from families with ties to the slave trade. Early on in the Atlantic Slave trade, these marriages were common. The marriages were even performed using African customs, which Europeans did not object to, seeing how important the connections were.\n\nAlthough Europeans were the market for slaves, Europeans rarely entered the interior of Africa, due to fear of disease and fierce African resistance. In Africa, convicted criminals could be punished by enslavement, a punishment which became more prevalent as slavery became more lucrative. Since most of these nations did not have a prison system, convicts were often sold or used in the scattered local domestic slave market.\nAs of 1778, Thomas Kitchin estimated that Europeans were bringing an estimated 52,000 slaves to the Caribbean yearly, with the French bringing the most Africans to the French West Indies (13,000 out of the yearly estimate). The Atlantic slave trade peaked in the last two decades of the 18th century, during and following the Kongo Civil War. Wars among tiny states along the Niger River's Igbo-inhabited region and the accompanying banditry also spiked in this period. Another reason for surplus supply of enslaved people was major warfare conducted by expanding states, such as the kingdom of Dahomey, the Oyo Empire, and the Asante Empire.\n\nForms of slavery varied both in Africa and in the New World. In general, slavery in Africa was not heritable – that is, the children of slaves were free – while in the Americas, children of slave mothers were considered born into slavery. This was connected to another distinction: slavery in West Africa was not reserved for racial or religious minorities, as it was in European colonies, although the case was otherwise in places such as Somalia, where Bantus were taken as slaves for the ethnic Somalis.\n\nThe treatment of slaves in Africa was more variable than in the Americas. At one extreme, the kings of Dahomey routinely slaughtered slaves in hundreds or thousands in sacrificial rituals, and slaves as human sacrifices were also known in Cameroon. On the other hand, slaves in other places were often treated as part of the family, \"adopted children\", with significant rights including the right to marry without their masters' permission. Scottish explorer Mungo Park wrote:\n\nIn the Americas, slaves were denied the right to marry freely and masters did not generally accept them as equal members of the family. New World slaves were considered the property of their owners, and slaves convicted of revolt or murder were executed.\n\nThere were eight principal areas used by Europeans to buy and ship slaves to the Western Hemisphere. The number of enslaved people sold to the New World varied throughout the slave trade. As for the distribution of slaves from regions of activity, certain areas produced far more enslaved people than others. Between 1650 and 1900, 10.24 million enslaved Africans arrived in the Americas from the following regions in the following proportions:\n\nAlthough the slave trade was largely global, there was considerable intracontinental slave trade in which 8 million people were enslaved within the African continent. Of those who did move out of Africa, 8 million were forced out of Eastern Africa to be sent to Asia.\n\nThere were over 173 city-states and kingdoms in the African regions affected by the slave trade between 1502 and 1853 when Brazil became the last Atlantic import nation to outlaw the slave trade. Of those 173, no fewer than 68 could be deemed nation states with political and military infrastructures that enabled them to dominate their neighbours. Nearly every present-day nation had a pre-colonial predecessor, sometimes an African Empire with which European traders had to barter.\n\nThe different ethnic groups brought to the Americas closely corresponds to the regions of heaviest activity in the slave trade. Over 45 distinct ethnic groups were taken to the Americas during the trade. Of the 45, the ten most prominent, according to slave documentation of the era are listed below.\n\nThe transatlantic slave trade resulted in a vast and as yet still unknown loss of life for African captives both in and outside America. Approximately 1.2 – 2.4 million Africans died during their transport to the New World. More died soon upon their arrival. The number of lives lost in the procurement of slaves remains a mystery but may equal or exceed the number who survived to be enslaved.\n\nThe savage nature of the trade led to the destruction of individuals and cultures. The following figures do not include deaths of enslaved Africans as a result of their labour, slave revolts, or diseases suffered while living among New World populations.\n\nHistorian Ana Lucia Araujo has noted that the process of enslavement did not end with arrival on the American shores; the different paths taken by the individuals and groups who were victims of the Atlantic slave trade were influenced by different factors—including the disembarking region, the kind of work performed, gender, age, religion, and language.\n\nEstimates by Patrick Manning are that about 12 million slaves entered the Atlantic trade between the 16th and 19th century, but about 1.5 million died on board ship. About 10.5 million slaves arrived in the Americas. Besides the slaves who died on the Middle Passage, more Africans likely died during the slave raids in Africa and forced marches to ports. Manning estimates that 4 million died inside Africa after capture, and many more died young. Manning's estimate covers the 12 million who were originally destined for the Atlantic, as well as the 6 million destined for Asian slave markets and the 8 million destined for African markets. Of the slaves shipped to The Americas, the largest share went to Brazil and the Caribbean.\n\nAccording to Kimani Nehusi, the presence of European slavers affected the way in which the legal code in African societies responded to offenders. Crimes traditionally punishable by some other form of punishment became punishable by enslavement and sale to slave traders. According to David Stannard's \"American Holocaust\", 50% of African deaths occurred in Africa as a result of wars between native kingdoms, which produced the majority of slaves. This includes not only those who died in battles but also those who died as a result of forced marches from inland areas to slave ports on the various coasts. The practice of enslaving enemy combatants and their villages was widespread throughout Western and West Central Africa, although wars were rarely started to procure slaves. The slave trade was largely a by-product of tribal and state warfare as a way of removing potential dissidents after victory or financing future wars. However, some African groups proved particularly adept and brutal at the practice of enslaving, such as Oyo, Benin, Igala, Kaabu, Asanteman, Dahomey, the Aro Confederacy and the Imbangala war bands.\n\nIn letters written by the Manikongo, Nzinga Mbemba Afonso, to the King João III of Portugal, he writes that Portuguese merchandise flowing in is what is fueling the trade in Africans. He requests the King of Portugal to stop sending merchandise but should only send missionaries. In one of his letters he writes:\n\nBefore the arrival of the Portuguese, slavery had already existed in Kongo. Afonso believed that the slave trade should be subject to Kongo law. When he suspected the Portuguese of receiving illegally enslaved persons to sell, he wrote to King João III in 1526 imploring him to put a stop to the practice.\n\nThe kings of Dahomey sold war captives into transatlantic slavery; they would otherwise have been killed in a ceremony known as the Annual Customs. As one of West Africa's principal slave states, Dahomey became extremely unpopular with neighbouring peoples. Like the Bambara Empire to the east, the Khasso kingdoms depended heavily on the slave trade for their economy. A family's status was indicated by the number of slaves it owned, leading to wars for the sole purpose of taking more captives. This trade led the Khasso into increasing contact with the European settlements of Africa's west coast, particularly the French. Benin grew increasingly rich during the 16th and 17th centuries on the slave trade with Europe; slaves from enemy states of the interior were sold and carried to the Americas in Dutch and Portuguese ships. The Bight of Benin's shore soon came to be known as the \"Slave Coast\".\n\nKing Gezo of Dahomey said in the 1840s:\n\nIn 1807, the UK Parliament passed the Bill that abolished the trading of slaves. The King of Bonny (now in Nigeria) was horrified at the conclusion of the practice:\n\nAfter being marched to the coast for sale, enslaved people were held in large forts called factories. The amount of time in factories varied, but Milton Meltzer states in \"Slavery: A World History\" that around 4.5% of deaths attributed to the transatlantic slave trade occurred during this phase. In other words, over 820,000 people are believed to have died in African ports such as Benguela, Elmina, and Bonny, reducing the number of those shipped to 17.5 million.\n\nAfter being captured and held in the factories, slaves entered the infamous Middle Passage. Meltzer's research puts this phase of the slave trade's overall mortality at 12.5%. Their deaths were the result of brutal treatment and poor care from the time of their capture and throughout their voyage. Around 2.2 million Africans died during these voyages where they were packed into tight, unsanitary spaces on ships for months at a time. Measures were taken to stem the onboard mortality rate, such as enforced \"dancing\" (as exercise) above deck and the practice of force-feeding enslaved persons who tried to starve themselves. The conditions on board also resulted in the spread of fatal diseases. Other fatalities were suicides, slaves who escaped by jumping overboard. The slave traders would try to fit anywhere from 350 to 600 slaves on one ship. Before the African slave trade was completely banned by participating nations in 1853, 15.3 million enslaved people had arrived in the Americas.\n\nRaymond L. Cohn, an economics professor whose research has focused on economic history and international migration, has researched the mortality rates among Africans during the voyages of the Atlantic slave trade. He found that mortality rates decreased over the history of the slave trade, primarily because the length of time necessary for the voyage was declining. \"In the eighteenth century many slave voyages took at least 2½ months. In the nineteenth century, 2 months appears to have been the maximum length of the voyage, and many voyages were far shorter. Fewer slaves died in the Middle Passage over time mainly because the passage was shorter.\"\n\nDespite the vast profits of slavery, the ordinary sailors on slave ships were badly paid and subject to harsh discipline. Mortality of around 20% was expected in a ship's crew during the course of a voyage; this was due to disease, flogging, overwork or slave uprisings. Disease (malaria or yellow fever) was the most common cause of death among sailors. A high crew mortality rate on the return voyage was in the captain's interests as it reduced the number of sailors who had to be paid on reaching the home port.\n\nThe slave trade was hated by many sailors and those who joined the crews of slave ships often did so through coercion or because they could find no other employment.\n\nMeltzer also states that 33% of Africans would have died in the first year at the seasoning camps found throughout the Caribbean. Jamaica held one of the most notorious of these camps. Dysentery was the leading cause of death. Around 5 million Africans died in these camps, reducing the number of survivors to about 10 million.\n\nNotable diseases not originally known as present in Americas before 1492 include those such as smallpox, malaria, bubonic plague, typhus, influenza, measles, diphtheria, yellow fever, and whooping cough. During the Atlantic slave trade following the discovery of the New World, diseases such as these possessed the capability of obliterating populations such as the Natives by the masses as short amount of time as a few weeks or months.\n\nSmallpox was one of the epidemics that surrounded the Atlantic slave trade from the 15th to the 18th centuries. Diseases like smallpox were known for causing a significant decrease in the indigenous population of the New World. An explanation to aid in understanding the logistics behind the extensive population decrease includes the topic of immunity. The native population was not immune to this disease in that they did not have the pathogen required to resist the disease. Those such as the European colonizers and the African slaves brought to the New World, however, did possess this pathogen due to having been previously exposed to smallpox. It was known to be a common illness many underwent as children, which in turn built up their immunity to withstand this disease. As a result of the Native Americans no longer being able to work the lands (as the labor required them to mine gold and silver), European colonizers, such as the Portuguese took advantage of their access to regions of the African continent such as Angola from which to extract another source of labor in which Africans had proven to be prime candidates in that they survived this case of the disease- also known as \"variola intermedius-\" while the Natives had continued to fall to the various illnesses.\n\nEffects of smallpox included fever, bodily eruptions, and was very noticeable in the disfigurement seen of the face, hands, and feet. This illness is a viral disease -contracted through contact with an exposed individual and through the air. Being that it is a virus, that there are no specific drug treatments to combat it such as those that later arose to combat bacterial infections such as Syphilis. In terms of image, many-such as those who believed the plague of syphilis in Europe to be the fault of the Amerindians- saw smallpox as the European revenge against the Natives.\n\nFor many diseases, the African and Eurasian population were able to have already acquired immunity- being able to resist an infection- due to prior exposure as children in which they were less likely to receive the same illness again. Upon arrival, these diseases were transmitted to the Native populations who did not have immunity due to no prior exposure having been from climates in which these germs, and pathogens surrounding these diseases were not common. Having been exposed to the illness as an adult, some effects would prove to be more enhanced than if they were to be at an adolescent age.\n\nEvolutionary history also played a role in being immune to the diseases of the slave trade. Compared to African and Europeans, New World populations did not have a history of exposure to the disease, and therefore, no genetic resistance could be maintained as a result of adaptation through evolution.\n\nLevels and extent of immunity varies from disease to disease. For smallpox and measles for example, those who survive are equipped with the cellular immunity to combat the disease for the rest of their life in that they cannot contract the disease again. There are also diseases in which immunity does not guarantee that an individual is not susceptible to becoming reinfected.\n\nDue to a limited knowledge on the causation and range of effects of diseases surrounding the event of the slave trade, there were little to no methods for inoculation present during the time. In the late 16th century with the increased presence of smallpox, there existed some forms of inoculation or sometimes referred to as variolation in Africa and the Middle East. One practice features Arab traders in Africa \"buying-off\" the disease in which a cloth that had been previously exposed to the sickness was to be tied to another child's arm to increase immunity. Another practice involved taking pus from a smallpox scab and putting it in the cut of a healthy individual in an attempt to have a mild case of the disease in the future rather than the effects becoming fatal.\n\nAs epidemiology advances, causes and effective treatments are being discovered to combat historically destructive diseases such as syphilis- which in today can be treated with simple antibiotics such as penicillin and other medications that can inhibit and rid the body of harmful bacteria.\n\nThe trade of enslaved Africans in the Atlantic has its origins in the explorations of Portuguese mariners down the coast of West Africa in the 15th century. Before that, contact with African slave markets was made to ransom Portuguese who had been captured by the intense North African Barbary pirate attacks on Portuguese ships and coastal villages, frequently leaving them depopulated. The first Europeans to use enslaved Africans in the New World were the Spaniards, who sought auxiliaries for their conquest expeditions and labourers on islands such as Cuba and Hispaniola. The alarming decline in the native population had spurred the first royal laws protecting them (Laws of Burgos, 1512–13). The first enslaved Africans arrived in Hispaniola in 1501. After Portugal had succeeded in establishing sugar plantations (\"engenhos\") in northern Brazil ca. 1545, Portuguese merchants on the West African coast began to supply enslaved Africans to the sugar planters. While at first these planters had relied almost exclusively on the native Tupani for slave labour, after 1570 they began importing Africans, as a series of epidemics had decimated the already destabilized Tupani communities. By 1630, Africans had replaced the Tupani as the largest contingent of labour on Brazilian sugar plantations. This ended the European medieval household tradition of slavery, resulted in Brazil's receiving the most enslaved Africans, and revealed sugar cultivation and processing as the reason that roughly 84% of these Africans were shipped to the New World.\nAs Britain rose in naval power and settled continental North America and some islands of the West Indies, they became the leading slave traders. At one stage the trade was the monopoly of the Royal Africa Company, operating out of London. But, following the loss of the company's monopoly in 1689, Bristol and Liverpool merchants became increasingly involved in the trade. By the late 17th century, one out of every four ships that left Liverpool harbour was a slave trading ship. Much of the wealth on which the city of Manchester, and surrounding towns, was built in the late 18th century, and for much of the 19th century, was based on the processing of slave-picked cotton and manufacture of cloth. Other British cities also profited from the slave trade. Birmingham, the largest gun-producing town in Britain at the time, supplied guns to be traded for slaves. 75% of all sugar produced in the plantations was sent to London, and much of it was consumed in the highly lucrative coffee houses there.\n\nThe first slaves to arrive as part of a labour force in the New World reached the island of Hispaniola (now Haiti and the Dominican Republic) in 1502. Cuba received its first four slaves in 1513. Jamaica received its first shipment of 4000 slaves in 1518. Slave exports to Honduras and Guatemala started in 1526.\n\nThe first enslaved Africans to reach what would become the United States arrived in July 1526 as part of a Spanish attempt to colonize San Miguel de Gualdape. By November the 300 Spanish colonists were reduced to 100, and their slaves from 100 to 70. The enslaved people revolted in 1526 and joined a nearby Native American tribe, while the Spanish abandoned the colony altogether (1527). The area of the future Colombia received its first enslaved people in 1533. El Salvador, Costa Rica and Florida began their stints in the slave trade in 1541, 1563 and 1581, respectively.\n\nThe 17th century saw an increase in shipments. Africans arrived in the English colony of Jamestown, Virginia in 1619. The first kidnapped Africans in English North America were classed as indentured servants and freed after seven years. Virginia law codified chattel slavery in 1656, and in 1662 the colony adopted the principle of \"partus sequitur ventrem\", which classified children of slave mothers as slaves, regardless of paternity. Irish immigrants took slaves to Montserrat in 1651, and in 1655 slaves were shipped to Belize.\n\nBy 1802, Russian colonists noted that \"Boston\" (U.S.-based) skippers were trading African slaves for otter pelts with the Tlingit people in Southeast Alaska.\n\nThe number of the Africans who arrived in each region is calculated from the total number of slaves imported, about 10,000,000.\n\nIn France in the 18th century, returns for investors in plantations averaged around 6%; as compared to 5% for most domestic alternatives, this represented a 20% profit advantage. Risks—maritime and commercial—were important for individual voyages. Investors mitigated it by buying small shares of many ships at the same time. In that way, they were able to diversify a large part of the risk away. Between voyages, ship shares could be freely sold and bought.\n\nBy far the most financially profitable West Indian colonies in 1800 belonged to the United Kingdom. After entering the sugar colony business late, British naval supremacy and control over key islands such as Jamaica, Trinidad, the Leeward Islands and Barbados and the territory of British Guiana gave it an important edge over all competitors; while many British did not make gains, a handful of individuals made small fortunes. This advantage was reinforced when France lost its most important colony, St. Domingue (western Hispaniola, now Haiti), to a slave revolt in 1791 and supported revolts against its rival Britain, after the 1793 French revolution in the name of liberty. Before 1791, British sugar had to be protected to compete against cheaper French sugar.\n\nAfter 1791, the British islands produced the most sugar, and the British people quickly became the largest consumers. West Indian sugar became ubiquitous as an additive to Indian tea. It has been estimated that the profits of the slave trade and of West Indian plantations created up to one-in-twenty of every pound circulating in the British economy at the time of the Industrial Revolution in the latter half of the 18th century.\n\nHistorian Walter Rodney has argued that at the start of the slave trade in the 16th century, although there was a technological gap between Europe and Africa, it was not very substantial. Both continents were using Iron Age technology. The major advantage that Europe had was in ship building. During the period of slavery, the populations of Europe and the Americas grew exponentially, while the population of Africa remained stagnant. Rodney contended that the profits from slavery were used to fund economic growth and technological advancement in Europe and the Americas. Based on earlier theories by Eric Williams, he asserted that the industrial revolution was at least in part funded by agricultural profits from the Americas. He cited examples such as the invention of the steam engine by James Watt, which was funded by plantation owners from the Caribbean.\n\nOther historians have attacked both Rodney's methodology and accuracy. Joseph C. Miller has argued that the social change and demographic stagnation (which he researched on the example of West Central Africa) was caused primarily by domestic factors. Joseph Inikori provided a new line of argument, estimating counterfactual demographic developments in case the Atlantic slave trade had not existed. Patrick Manning has shown that the slave trade did have a profound impact on African demographics and social institutions, but criticized Inikori's approach for not taking other factors (such as famine and drought) into account, and thus being highly speculative.\n\nNo scholars dispute the harm done to the enslaved people but the effect of the trade on African societies is much debated, due to the apparent influx of goods to Africans. Proponents of the slave trade, such as Archibald Dalzel, argued that African societies were robust and not much affected by the trade. In the 19th century, European abolitionists, most prominently Dr. David Livingstone, took the opposite view, arguing that the fragile local economy and societies were being severely harmed by the trade.\n\nBecause the negative effects of slavery on the economies of Africa have been well documented, namely the significant decline in population, some African rulers likely saw an economic benefit from trading their subjects with European slave traders. With the exception of Portuguese controlled Angola, coastal African leaders \"generally controlled access to their coasts, and were able to prevent direct enslavement of their subjects and citizens\". Thus, as African scholar John Thornton argues, African leaders who allowed the continuation of the slave trade likely derived an economic benefit from selling their subjects to Europeans. The Kingdom of Benin, for instance, participated in the African slave trade, at will, from 1715 to 1735, surprising Dutch traders, who had not expected to buy slaves in Benin. The benefit derived from trading slaves for European goods was enough to make the Kingdom of Benin rejoin the trans-Atlantic slave trade after centuries of non-participation. Such benefits included military technology (specifically guns and gunpowder), gold, or simply maintaining amicable trade relationships with European nations. The slave trade was, therefore, a means for some African elites to gain economic advantages. Historian Walter Rodney estimates that by c.1770, the King of Dahomey was earning an estimated £250,000 per year by selling captive African soldiers and enslaved people to the European slave-traders. Many West African countries also already had a tradition of holding slaves, which was expanded into trade with Europeans.\n\nThe Atlantic trade brought new crops to Africa and also more efficient currencies which were adopted by the West African merchants. This can be interpreted as an institutional reform which reduced the cost of doing business. But the developmental benefits were limited as long as the business including slaving.\n\nBoth Thornton and Fage contend that while African political elite may have ultimately benefited from the slave trade, their decision to participate may have been influenced more by what they could lose by not participating. In Fage's article \"Slavery and the Slave Trade in the Context of West African History\", he notes that for West Africans \"... there were really few effective means of mobilizing labour for the economic and political needs of the state\" without the slave trade.\n\nHistorian Eric Williams in 1944 argued that the profits that Britain received from its sugar colonies, or from the slave trade between Africa and the Caribbean, was a major factor in financing Britain's industrial revolution. However, he says that by the time of its abolition in 1833 it had lost its profitability and it was in Britain's economic interest to ban it.\n\nOther researchers and historians have strongly contested what has come to be referred to as the \"Williams thesis\" in academia. David Richardson has concluded that the profits from the slave trade amounted to less than 1% of domestic investment in Britain. Economic historian Stanley Engerman finds that even without subtracting the associated costs of the slave trade (e.g., shipping costs, slave mortality, mortality of British people in Africa, defense costs) or reinvestment of profits back into the slave trade, the total profits from the slave trade and of West Indian plantations amounted to less than 5% of the British economy during any year of the Industrial Revolution. Engerman's 5% figure gives as much as possible in terms of benefit of the doubt to the Williams argument, not solely because it does not take into account the associated costs of the slave trade to Britain, but also because it carries the full-employment assumption from economics and holds the gross value of slave trade profits as a direct contribution to Britain's national income. Historian Richard Pares, in an article written before Williams' book, dismisses the influence of wealth generated from the West Indian plantations upon the financing of the Industrial Revolution, stating that whatever substantial flow of investment from West Indian profits into industry there occurred after emancipation, not before.\n\nSeymour Drescher and Robert Anstey argue the slave trade remained profitable until the end, and that moralistic reform, not economic incentive, was primarily responsible for abolition. They say slavery remained profitable in the 1830s because of innovations in agriculture.\n\nKarl Marx in his influential economic history of capitalism \"Das Kapital\" wrote that \"... the turning of Africa into a warren for the commercial hunting of black-skins, signaled the rosy dawn of the era of capitalist production\". He argued that the slave trade was part of what he termed the \"primitive accumulation\" of capital, the 'non-capitalist' accumulation of wealth that preceded and created the financial conditions for Britain's industrialisation.\n\nThe demographic effects of the slave trade is a controversial and highly debated issue. Although scholars such as Paul Adams and Erick D. Langer have estimated that sub-Saharan Africa represented about 18 percent of the world's population in 1600 and only 6 percent in 1900, the reasons for this demographic shift have been the subject of much debate. In addition to the depopulation Africa experienced because of the slave trade, African nations were left with severely imbalanced gender ratios, with females comprising up to 65 percent of the population in hard-hit areas such as Angola. Moreover, many scholars (such as Barbara N. Ramusack) have suggested a link between the prevalence of prostitution in Africa today with the temporary marriages that were enforced during the course of the slave trade.\n\nWalter Rodney argued that the export of so many people had been a demographic disaster which left Africa permanently disadvantaged when compared to other parts of the world, and it largely explains the continent's continued poverty. He presented numbers showing that Africa's population stagnated during this period, while those of Europe and Asia grew dramatically. According to Rodney, all other areas of the economy were disrupted by the slave trade as the top merchants abandoned traditional industries in order to pursue slaving, and the lower levels of the population were disrupted by the slaving itself.\n\nOthers have challenged this view. J. D. Fage compared the demographic effect on the continent as a whole. David Eltis has compared the numbers to the rate of emigration from Europe during this period. In the 19th century alone over 50 million people left Europe for the Americas, a far higher rate than were ever taken from Africa.\n\nOther scholars accused Walter Rodney of mischaracterizing the trade between Africans and Europeans. They argue that Africans, or more accurately African elites, deliberately let European traders join in an already large trade in enslaved people and that they were not patronized.\n\nAs Joseph E. Inikori argues, the history of the region shows that the effects were still quite deleterious. He argues that the African economic model of the period was very different from the European model, and could not sustain such population losses. Population reductions in certain areas also led to widespread problems. Inikori also notes that after the suppression of the slave trade Africa's population almost immediately began to rapidly increase, even prior to the introduction of modern medicines.\n\nWalter Rodney states,\n\nThe role of slavery in promoting racist prejudice and ideology has been carefully studied in certain situations, especially in the USA. The simple fact is that no people can enslave another for four centuries without coming out with a notion of superiority, and when the colour and other physical traits of those peoples were quite different it was inevitable that the prejudice should take a racist form.\n\nEric Williams argued that \"A racial twist [was] given to what is basically an economic phenomenon. Slavery was not born of racism: rather, racism was the consequence of slavery.\"\n\nIn Britain, America, Portugal and in parts of Europe, opposition developed against the slave trade. Davis says that abolitionists assumed \"that an end to slave imports would lead automatically to the amelioration and gradual abolition of slavery\". In Britain and America, opposition to the trade was led by the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) and establishment Evangelicals such as William Wilberforce. Many people joined the movement and they began to protest against the trade, but they were opposed by the owners of the colonial holdings. Following Lord Mansfield's decision in 1772, slaves became free upon entering the British isles. Under the leadership of Thomas Jefferson, the new state of Virginia in 1778 became the first state and one of the first jurisdictions anywhere to stop the importation of slaves for sale; it made it a crime for traders to bring in slaves from out of state or from overseas for sale; migrants from other states were allowed to bring their own slaves. The new law freed all slaves brought in illegally after its passage and imposed heavy fines on violators. Denmark, which had been active in the slave trade, was the first country to ban the trade through legislation in 1792, which took effect in 1803. Britain banned the slave trade in 1807, imposing stiff fines for any slave found aboard a British ship (\"see Slave Trade Act 1807\"). The Royal Navy moved to stop other nations from continuing the slave trade and declared that slaving was equal to piracy and was punishable by death. The United States Congress passed the Slave Trade Act of 1794, which prohibited the building or outfitting of ships in the U.S. for use in the slave trade. In 1807 Congress outlawed the importation of slaves beginning on 1 January 1808, the earliest date permitted by the United States Constitution for such a ban.\n\nWilliam Wilberforce was a driving force in the British Parliament in the fight against the slave trade in the British Empire. On 22 February 1807, the House of Commons passed a motion 283 votes to 16 to abolish the Atlantic slave trade. The United States abolished the slave trade the same year, but not its internal slave trade which became the dominant character in American slavery until the 1860s. In 1805 the British Order-in-Council had restricted the importation of slaves into colonies that had been captured from France and the Netherlands. Britain continued to press other nations to end its trade; in 1810 an Anglo-Portuguese treaty was signed whereby Portugal agreed to restrict its trade into its colonies; an 1813 Anglo-Swedish treaty whereby Sweden outlawed its slave trade; the Treaty of Paris 1814 where France agreed with Britain that the trade is \"repugnant to the principles of natural justice\" and agreed to abolish the slave trade in five years; the 1814 Anglo-Netherlands treaty where the Dutch outlawed its slave trade.\nThe Royal Navy's West Africa Squadron, established in 1808, grew by 1850 to a force of some 25 vessels, which were tasked with combating slavery along the African coast. Between 1807 and 1860, the Royal Navy's Squadron seized approximately 1,600 ships involved in the slave trade and freed 150,000 Africans who were aboard these vessels. Several hundred slaves a year were transported by the navy to the British colony of Sierra Leone, where they were made to serve as \"apprentices\" in the colonial economy until the Slavery Abolition Act 1833.\nThe last recorded slave ship to land on U.S. soil was the \"Clotilde\", which in 1859 illegally smuggled a number of Africans into the town of Mobile, Alabama. The Africans on board were sold as slaves; however, slavery in the U.S. was abolished five years later following the end of the American Civil War in 1865. The last survivor of the voyage was Cudjoe Lewis, who died in 1935.\nThe last country to ban the Atlantic slave trade was Brazil in 1831. However, a vibrant illegal trade continued to ship large numbers of enslaved people to Brazil and also to Cuba until the 1860s, when British enforcement and further diplomacy finally ended the Atlantic slave trade. In 1870 Portugal ended the last trade route with the Americas where the last country to import slaves was Brazil. In Brazil, however, slavery itself was not ended until 1888, making it the last country in the Americas to end involuntary servitude.\n\nThe historian Walter Rodney contends that it was a decline in the profitability of the triangular trades that made it possible for certain basic human sentiments to be asserted at the decision-making level in a number of European countries- Britain being the most crucial because it was the greatest carrier of African captives across the Atlantic. Rodney states that changes in productivity, technology, and patterns of exchange in Europe and the Americas informed the decision by the British to end their participation in the trade in 1807. In 1809 President James Madison outlawed the slave trade with the United States.\n\nNevertheless, Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri argue that it was neither a strictly economic nor moral matter. First, because slavery was (in practice) still beneficial to capitalism, providing not only an influx of capital but also disciplining hardship into workers (a form of \"apprenticeship\" to the capitalist industrial plant). The more \"recent\" argument of a \"moral shift\" (the basis of the previous lines of this article) is described by Hardt and Negri as an \"ideological\" apparatus in order to eliminate the sentiment of guilt in western society. Although moral arguments did play a secondary role, they usually had major resonance when used as a strategy to undercut competitors' profits. This argument holds that Eurocentric history has been blind to the most important element in this fight for emancipation, precisely, the constant revolt and the antagonism of slaves' revolts. The most important of those being the Haitian Revolution. The shock of this revolution in 1804, certainly introduces an essential political argument into the end of the slave trade, which happened only three years later.\n\nThe African diaspora which was created via slavery has been a complex interwoven part of American history and culture. In the United States, the success of Alex Haley's book \"\", published in 1976, and the subsequent television miniseries based upon it \"Roots\", broadcast on the ABC network in January 1977, led to an increased interest and appreciation of African heritage amongst the African-American community. The influence of these led many African Americans to begin researching their family histories and making visits to West Africa. In turn, a tourist industry grew up to supply them. One notable example of this is through the Roots Homecoming Festival held annually in the Gambia, in which rituals are held through which African Americans can symbolically \"come home\" to Africa. Issues of dispute have however developed between African Americans and African authorities over how to display historic sites that were involved in the Atlantic slave trade, with prominent voices in the former criticising the latter for not displaying such sites sensitively, but instead treating them as a commercial enterprise.\n\nIn 1816, a group of wealthy European-Americans, some of whom were abolitionists and others who were racial segregationists, founded the American Colonization Society with the express desire of returning African Americans who were in the United States to West Africa. In 1820, they sent their first ship to Liberia, and within a decade around two thousand African Americans had been settled in the west African country. Such re-settlement continued throughout the 19th century, increasing following the deterioration of race relations in the southern states of the US following Reconstruction in 1877.\n\nThe Rastafari movement, which originated in Jamaica, where 98% of the population are descended from victims of the Atlantic slave trade, has made great efforts to publicize the slavery and to ensure it is not forgotten, especially through reggae music.\n\nIn 1998, UNESCO designated 23 August as International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade and its Abolition. Since then there have been a number of events recognizing the effects of slavery.\n\nAt the 2001 World Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa, African nations demanded a clear apology for slavery from the former slave-trading countries. Some nations were ready to express an apology, but the opposition, mainly from the United Kingdom, Portugal, Spain, the Netherlands, and the United States blocked attempts to do so. A fear of monetary compensation might have been one of the reasons for the opposition. As of 2009, efforts are underway to create a UN Slavery Memorial as a permanent remembrance of the victims of the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nIn 1999, President Mathieu Kerekou of Benin (formerly the Kingdom of Dahomey) issued a national apology for the role Africans played in the Atlantic slave trade. Luc Gnacadja, minister of environment and housing for Benin, later said: \"The slave trade is a shame, and we do repent for it.\" Researchers estimate that 3 million slaves were exported out of the Slave Coast bordering the Bight of Benin.\n\nOn 30 January 2006, Jacques Chirac (the then French President) said that 10 May would henceforth be a national day of remembrance for the victims of slavery in France, marking the day in 2001 when France passed a law recognising slavery as a crime against humanity.\n\nPresident Jerry Rawlings of Ghana also apologized for his country's involvement in the slave trade.\n\nAt a UN conference on the Atlantic slave trade in 2001, the Dutch Minister for Urban Policy and Integration of Ethnic Minorities Roger van Boxtel said that the Netherlands \"recognizes the grave injustices of the past.\" On 1 July 2013, at the 150th anniversary of the abolition of slavery in the Dutch West Indies, the Dutch government expressed \"deep regret and remorse\" for the involvement of the Netherlands in the Atlantic slave trade. The Dutch government has remained short of a formal apology for its involvement in the Atlantic slave trade, as an apology implies that it considers its own actions of the past as unlawful, and could lead to litigation for monetary compensation by descendants of the enslaved.\n\nIn 2009, the Civil Rights Congress of Nigeria has written an open letter to all African chieftains who participated in trade calling for an apology for their role in the Atlantic slave trade: \"We cannot continue to blame the white men, as Africans, particularly the traditional rulers, are not blameless. In view of the fact that the Americans and Europe have accepted the cruelty of their roles and have forcefully apologized, it would be logical, reasonable and humbling if African traditional rulers ... [can] accept blame and formally apologize to the descendants of the victims of their collaborative and exploitative slave trade.\"\n\nIn 1998, President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda called tribal chieftains to apologize for their involvement in the slave trade: \"African chiefs were the ones waging war on each other and capturing their own people and selling them. If anyone should apologise it should be the African chiefs. We still have those traitors here even today.\"\n\nOn 9 December 1999, Liverpool City Council passed a formal motion apologizing for the City's part in the slave trade. It was unanimously agreed that Liverpool acknowledges its responsibility for its involvement in three centuries of the slave trade. The City Council has made an unreserved apology for Liverpool's involvement and the continual effect of slavery on Liverpool's black communities.\n\nOn 27 November 2006, British Prime Minister Tony Blair made a partial apology for Britain's role in the African slavery trade. However African rights activists denounced it as \"empty rhetoric\" that failed to address the issue properly. They feel his apology stopped shy to prevent any legal retort. Blair again apologized on March 14, 2007.\n\nOn 24 August 2007, Ken Livingstone (Mayor of London) apologized publicly for London's role in the slave trade. \"You can look across there to see the institutions that still have the benefit of the wealth they created from slavery\", he said pointing towards the financial district, before breaking down in tears. He claimed that London was still tainted by the horrors of slavery. Jesse Jackson praised Mayor Livingstone and added that reparations should be made.\n\nOn 24 February 2007, the Virginia General Assembly passed House Joint Resolution Number 728 acknowledging \"with profound regret the involuntary servitude of Africans and the exploitation of Native Americans, and call for reconciliation among all Virginians\". With the passing of that resolution, Virginia became the first of the 50 United States to acknowledge through the state's governing body their state's involvement in slavery. The passing of this resolution came on the heels of the 400th-anniversary celebration of the city of Jamestown, Virginia, which was the first permanent English colony to survive in what would become the United States. Jamestown is also recognized as one of the first slave ports of the American colonies. On 31 May 2007, the Governor of Alabama, Bob Riley, signed a resolution expressing \"profound regret\" for Alabama's role in slavery and apologizing for slavery's wrongs and lingering effects. Alabama is the fourth state to pass a slavery apology, following votes by the legislatures in Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina.\n\nOn 30 July 2008, the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution apologizing for American slavery and subsequent discriminatory laws. The language included a reference to the \"fundamental injustice, cruelty, brutality and inhumanity of slavery and Jim Crow\" segregation. On 18 June 2009, the United States Senate issued an apologetic statement decrying the \"fundamental injustice, cruelty, brutality, and inhumanity of slavery\". The news was welcomed by President Barack Obama.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26951074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26951074", "title": "August Friedrich Wilhelm Forchhammer", "text": "August Friedrich Wilhelm Forchhammer\n\nAugust Friedrich Wilhelm Forchhammer (18 December 1797 – 16 February 1870) was a jurist and historian from the Duchy of Schleswig.\n\nHe was born in Husum. He was a brother of Johan Georg Forchhammer, and through him an uncle of Johannes Nicolai Georg Forchhammer and granduncle of Henni and Johannes Georg Forchhammer.\n\nHe studied jurisprudence in Kiel, and worked here as an attorney from 1823 to 1848. From 1848 to 1862 he served as \"Obersachwalter\". He wrote books on the constitutional law of Schleswig (1823) and a two-volume history on Schleswig from the Protestant Reformation to the year 1712 (1834). He received an honorary degree in jurisprudence at the University of Kiel in 1869, but died in February 1870.\n"}
{"id": "34812269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34812269", "title": "Beqir Meta", "text": "Beqir Meta\n\nBeqir Meta is Albanian historian and member of the Academy of Sciences of Albania and director of the Institute of History. He published many works on Greek-Albanian relations. Meta is director of National Historical Museum and president of the Scientific Committee of the Mother Teresa Museum.\n"}
{"id": "431380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431380", "title": "Bolshoi Ballet", "text": "Bolshoi Ballet\n\nThe Bolshoi Ballet is an internationally renowned classical ballet company, based at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow, Russian Federation. Founded in 1776, the Bolshoi is among the world's oldest ballet companies. It only achieved worldwide acclaim, however, in the early 20th century when Moscow became the capital of Soviet Russia. Along with the Mariinsky Ballet in Saint Petersburg, the Bolshoi is recognised as one of the foremost ballet companies in the world.\n\nThe earliest origins of the Bolshoi Ballet can be found in the creation of a dance school for a Moscow orphanage in 1773. In 1776, dancers from the school were employed by Prince Pyotr Vasilyevich Ouroussoff and the English theatrical entrepreneur Michael Maddox, to form part of their new theatre company. Originally performing in privately owned venues, they later acquired the Petrovsky Theatre, which, as a result of fires and erratic redevelopment, would later be rebuilt as today's Bolshoi Theatre. While some guest dancers come and go from other very prestigious ballet companies—like the Mariinsky and American Ballet Theatre—many company dancers are graduates of the academy. In 1989, Michael Shannon was the first American ballet dancer to graduate from the Bolshoi Ballet Academy and join the Bolshoi Ballet company.\n\nDespite staging many famous ballets, it struggled to compete with the reputation of the Imperial Russian Ballet, today's Mariinsky Ballet of St. Petersburg. It was not until the appointment of Alexander Gorsky as Ballet Master in 1900 that the company began to develop its own unique identity, with acclaimed productions of new or restaged ballets including, \"Don Quixote\" (1900), \"Coppélia\" (1901), \"Swan Lake\" (1901), \"La fille mal gardée\" (1903), \"Giselle\" (1911), \"Le Corsaire\" (1912) and \"La Bayadère\" (1917).\n\nThe Soviet leadership's preference for uncomplicated moral themes in the arts was demonstrated in Yuri Grigorovich's appointment as director in 1964. Grigorovich held his position until 1995, at which point a series of directors, including Boris Akimov, Alexei Ratmansky, Yuri Burlaka and Sergei Filin, brought more modern dance performance ideas to the company.\n\nAnastasia Volochkova has claimed that female dancers were forced to sleep with wealthy patrons. She said: “It mainly happened with the corps du [sic] ballet but also with the soloists. [...] I repeatedly received such propositions to share the beds of oligarchs.\" American dancer Joy Womack echoed this concern when she left the company after being told that, to secure solo roles she must either pay $10,000 or \"start a relationship with a sponsor.\"\n\nThe January 2013 sulfuric acid attack on art director Sergei Filin once again steeped the company in scandal. Bolshoi dancer Pavel Dmitrichenko, was convicted of organizing the attack and sentenced to 6 years in prison. Reasons for the attack include corruption within the company.\n\nIn July 2017, the Bolshoi Theatre cancelled the premiere of a ballet about openly gay Soviet dancer Rudolf Nureyev. The Director General claimed it was due to the bad quality of the dancing, however, principle dancer Maria Alexandrova claimed it was the first sign of a 'new era' of censorship. It was the first time a show has been pulled in such a way since the collapse of the Soviet Union, sparking rumours about the motivation behind it.\n\n\n\n\nToday the Bolshoi Ballet remains one of the world's foremost ballet companies, in addition to being one of the largest, with approximately 220 dancers. The word \"bolshoi\" means \"big\" or \"grand\" in Russian. The company operates on a hierarchical system, similar to those used by other leading European ballet companies, with senior dancers ranked as principals, and descending in order of importance through lead soloist, first soloist, soloist and finally, corps de ballet. Due to its size, the company operates two troupes of corps de ballet.\n\nIn 2000, the Bolshoi Ballet opened its first Ballet Academy outside Russia, in Joinville, Brazil.\n\nThe performance style of the Bolshoi Ballet is typically identified as being colourful and bold, combining technique and athleticism with expressiveness and dramatic intensity. This style is commonly attributed to Alexander Forsky. Historically there has been a fierce rivalry with the St. Petersburg Heritage Ballet Company, the Mariinsky. Both have developed very different performing styles: the Bolshoi has a more colourful and bold approach, whereas the Mariinsky is associated with more pure and refined classicism.\n\nFemale\n\nMale\n\n\nIt was announced 30 January 2013, that Svetlana Lunkina told the Russian newspaper Izvestia that she wants to remain in Canada, because she fears for her safety if she returned to Russia.\n\nFemale\n\nMale\n\nFemale\n\nMale\n\nFemale\n\n\nMale\n\n\nThe Bolshoi Ballet operates two troupes of corps de ballet, with approximately 169 dancers in total.\n\n"}
{"id": "4141536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4141536", "title": "British Arctic Territories", "text": "British Arctic Territories\n\nBritish Arctic territories were territories claimed by the United Kingdom in North America, consisting of the islands of what is now known as the Canadian Arctic Archipelago (excepting islands in Hudson Bay, which were part of Rupert's Land). The region was part of British North America.\n\nThe British claim to the area was based on the discoveries of Martin Frobisher (1535–1594) in the 16th century. Britain passed control of the islands to Canada in 1880, by means of an Imperial Order in Council, the , passed under the Royal Prerogative. After the 1880 transfer Canada gradually incorporated the islands with Rupert's Land into the Northwest Territories. The transfer was necessary over the fear of American interest in the area as part of the Monroe Doctrine.\n\nOn April 1, 1999, the territory of Nunavut was created from the eastern portion of the Northwest Territories. The majority of the islands became part of Nunavut. Islands split between Nunavut and Northwest Territories include Victoria Island, Melville Island, Mackenzie King Island and Borden Island.\n\nThese islands were never part of Rupert's Land, which covered those parts of North America draining into Hudson Bay. Canada had acquired those regions in 1870, creating the Province of Manitoba and the new Northwest Territories, which originally included northern Ontario, the rest of Manitoba, all of Saskatchewan and part of Alberta, and what is now Nunavut territory, with the name Northwest Territories retained by the successor government in the region flanked by the Mackenzie River drainage to the north of Alberta. The North-Western Territory was to its northwest, and included parts of British Columbia north of the Stikine Territory and including all of today's Yukon territory, and parts of Alberta not in the Hudson Bay drainage, as well as today's Northwest Territories.\n\nFlags of the World has a tradition of posting a new flag for the British Arctic Territory every April 1. It has led to some persistent misinformation on the web.\n\n"}
{"id": "38466004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38466004", "title": "Cantiorix Inscription", "text": "Cantiorix Inscription\n\nThe Cantiorix Inscription is a stone grave marker of the early post-Roman era found near Ffestiniog in north Wales and now at the church at Penmachno. It is notable both as the first known historical reference to the Kingdom of Gwynedd, and for its use of the Roman terms for 'citizen' and 'magistrate'.\n\nIt is considered by some to be evidence that a Roman-style administration existed beyond the Roman departure from Britain in some form in the early Kingdom of Gwynedd, while others either question or discount its significance in that regard.\n\nJohn Rhys had read the Latin text as \"Cantiori Hic Jacit Venedotis Cive Fuit Consobrino Magli Magistrati\" in his \"Lectures on Welsh Philology\" (1877), noting that \"the person commemorated was a man of importance, and a Venedotian citizen, whatever that may exactly mean\". Thomas Charles-Edwards was more precise in \"After Rome\" (2003), noting technical details such as an all-capitals text and the use of late spoken Latin (e.g., CIVE instead of the formally correct CIVIS) to date the inscription to the fifth or sixth century, and neither before nor after that. He translated the inscription as \"Cantiori lies here; he was a citizen of Gwynedd, a cousin of Maglus the magistrate\", adding his broader thesis that \"As well as the language, the political discourse of the Empire survived\".\n\nThe Cantiorix stone was found near Ffestiniog at the site traditionally known as the 'Graves of the Men of Ardudwy' (). The site has been destroyed over time, with little but the Roman road now visible. Antiquarian accounts include references to \"likely long-cist graves marked by upright stones, suggesting a cemetery, as well as cairns, stones and other remains, which are thought to have included burial monuments of prehistoric date.\"\n\nThe importance of the reference to early medieval Gwynedd is uncontested, but the implications of the inscription's use of the terms 'civis' and 'magistrate' is varied. Rhys expressed doubt as to the inscription's meaning of 'civis', while Charles-Edwards suggested that it was evidence of a Roman-style \"political discourse\" in early medieval northern Wales.\n\nLloyd in his \"History of Wales\" (1911) mentions the inscription stone at Penmachno as an early reference to Gwynedd (\"Venedotis\" being a genetive form of something like \"Venedas\") in the sixth or seventh century and cites references, but does not comment upon it further. His discussion of \"Wales Under Roman Rule\" does not support any notion of a Roman heritage of administration or society, stating that Welsh society kept its native structure and connections to its pre-Roman past.\n\nWendy Davies in her \"Wales in the Early Middle Ages\" (1982) mentions the Cantiorix inscription parenthetically as part of a comment on people and communities. She says generally that there is very occasional mention of \"cives\" (citizens) as members of the community, and this single inscription is the only occurrence where it is mentioned in a context that specifies the size and nature of the community—a citizen of Gwynedd.\n\nJohn Davies in his \"History of Wales\" (1990) mentions several of the inscription stones at Penmachno, noting the reference to a \"citizen of Gwynedd\", and relates them to a desire to cling to the Roman world, particularly regarding trade goods, but does not otherwise relate them to a survival of a Roman-originated administration.\n\nSnyder, speaking of the Cantiorix inscription in his \"Age of Tyrants\" (1998), notes that the term \"magistratus\" is \"otherwise unknown to British Christian epigraphy, though civic antecedents can be found on contemporary inscriptions from Gaul and the Mediterranean\" and discusses several ancient usages of the term. He also notes authorities who had reached conclusions to the contrary, such as Alcock's belief that \"magistratus\" referred to one of the surviving \"civitates\" leaders to whom Honorius had sent his rescript in 410, and Nash-Williams' belief that the inscription was evidence of an ordered system of government in north Wales in the post-Roman era, centered upon Segontium. Snyder also questions the meaning of a \"citizen of Venidos\", saying that Gwynedd at this time was a region that would later become a kingdom, and was not a city.\n\nEdwards in her \"Early-Medieval Inscribed Stones and Stone Sculpture in Wales\" (2001) notes that the inscription recalls terms of the Roman past and suggests possible context (e.g., the Roman custom of burials along roads), also noting that the inscription stone from Castell Dwyran in Carmarthenshire contains the word \"Protictoris\", a title recalling a Roman past.\n\n"}
{"id": "20672213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20672213", "title": "Charles Diehl", "text": "Charles Diehl\n\nCharles Diehl (; January 19, 1859 – November 1, 1944) was a French historian born in Strasbourg. He was a leading authority on Byzantine art and history.\n\nHe received his education at the École Normale Supérieure, and later taught classes on Byzantine history at the Sorbonne. He was member of the École française de Rome (1881–1883) and the École française d'Athènes. In 1910 he became a member of the \"Académie des inscriptions et belles-lettres\" (elected president in 1921).\n\nThe Karolou Dil Street in the city of Thessaloniki (Greece) was named after Charles Diehl, near the Byzantine church of Hagia Sophia that was restored by him between 1907 and 1909.\n\nDiehl was the author of several influential books on Byzantine art and history. His treatise \"\"Byzance. Grandeur et décadence\" was translated into English by Naomi Walford and published in 1957 as \"Byzantium: Greatness and Decline\"\".\n\nOther published works by Diehl include:\n"}
{"id": "5645754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5645754", "title": "Christos G. Doumas", "text": "Christos G. Doumas\n\nChristos Georgiou Doumas (; born 1933), is a Greek archaeology professor at the University of Athens. From 1960 up until 1980, he had a career in the Greek Archaeological Service as curator of antiquities in Attica (on the Athenian Acropolis), in the Cyclades, in the Dodecanese Islands, and in the northern Aegean islands. He conducted excavations and organized many museum exhibitions in different regions of Greece. Doumas also served as curator of the prehistoric collections of the National Archaeological Museum of Athens. Moreover, he became the director of antiquities and the director of conservation at the Hellenic Ministry of Culture. Since 1975, Doumas has been the director of excavations at Akrotiri on the Island of Thera (Santorini), as a successor to Spyridon Marinatos. He published several books and scholarly articles on Aegean archaeology and particularly about the cultures of the Aegean Islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6586020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6586020", "title": "Col Hutchinson", "text": "Col Hutchinson\n\nColin \"Col\" Hutchinson is a veteran statistician, most notably in the Victorian/Australian Football League in the sport of Australian rules football. He was the AFL's official historian from the 1990s until around 2005.\n\nA part of the AFL Players Association, Hutchinson provides interesting statistics on football to newspapers and media outlets.\n\nHe is the author of several books including a history of the Geelong Football Club (\"Cats' tales : the Geelong Football Club, 1897–1983\") and \"The AFL footy quiz book\".\n\nThe last time Hutchinson missed seeing a live Geelong Football Club game was in 1963, over 1,100 games ago.\n"}
{"id": "3393901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3393901", "title": "Council of the Indies", "text": "Council of the Indies\n\nThe Council of the Indies; officially, the Royal and Supreme Council of the Indies (, ), was the most important administrative organ of the Spanish Empire for the Americas and the Philippines. The crown held absolute power over the Indies and the Council of the Indies was the administrative and advisory body for those overseas realms. It was established in 1524 by Charles V of Spain to administer \"the Indies,\" Spain's name for its territories. Such an administrative entity, on the conciliar model of the Council of Castile, was created following the Spanish conquest of the Aztec empire in 1521, which demonstrated the importance of the Americas. Originally a section under the jurisdiction of the Council of Castile, it was subsequently established as an autonomous body with legislative, executive and judicial functions. The Council of the Indies was abolished in 1812 by the Cádiz Cortes, briefly restored in 1814 by Ferdinand VII of Spain, and definitively abolished in 1834 by the regency, acting on behalf of the four-year-old Isabella II of Spain.\n\nQueen Isabella had granted extensive authority to Christopher Columbus, but then withdrew that authority, and established direct royal control, putting matters of the Indies in the hands of her chaplain, Juan Rodríguez de Fonseca in 1493. The Catholic Monarchs (Isabella and Ferdinand) designated Rodríguez de Fonseca to study the problems related to the colonization process arising from what was seen as tyrannical behavior of Governor Christopher Columbus and his misgovernment of Natives and Iberian settlers. Rodríguez de Fonseca effectively became minister for the Indies and laid the foundations for the creation of a colonial bureaucracy. He presided over a committee or council, which contained a number of members of the Council of Castile (\"Consejo de Castilla\"), and formed a \"Junta de Indias\" of about eight counselors. Emperor Charles V was already using the term \"Council of the Indies\" in 1519. \n\nThe Council of the Indies was formally created on August 1, 1524. The king was informed weekly, and sometimes daily, of decisions reached by the Council, which came to exercise supreme authority over the Indies at the local level and over the \"Casa de Contratación\" (\"House of Trade\") founded in 1503 at Seville as a customs storehouse for the Indies. Civil suits of sufficient importance could be appealed from an \"audiencia\" in the New World to the Council, functioning as a court of last resort. There were two secretaries of the Council, one in charge of Peru, Chile, Tierrafirme (northern South America), and the Kingdom of New Granada; the other was in charge of New Spain, encompassing Mexico, Guatemala, Nueva Galicia, Hispaniola, and the Philippines. The name of the Council did not change with the addition of the \"indias orientales\" of the Philippines and other Pacific territories claimed by Spain to the original \"indias occidentales\". \nInternecine fighting and political instability in Peru and the untiring efforts of Bartolomé de las Casas on behalf of the natives' rights resulted in Charles's overhaul of the structure of the Council in 1542 with issuing of the \"New Laws,\" which put limits on the rights of Spanish holders of encomiendas, grants of indigenous labor. Under Charles II the Council undertook the project to formally codify the large volume of Council and Crown's decisions and legislation for the Indies in the 1680 publication, the Laws of the Indies (\"\") and re-codified in 1791.\n\nThe Council of the Indies was usually headed by an ecclesiastic, but the councilors were generally non-clerics trained in law. In later years, nobles and royal favorites were in the ranks of councilors, as well as men who had experience in the high courts (\"Audiencias\") of the Indies. A key example of such an experienced councilor was Juan de Solórzano Pereira, author of \"Política Indiana\", who served in Peru prior to being named to the Council of the Indies and led the project on the Laws of the Indies. Other noteworthy Presidents of the Council were ; ; Pedro Moya de Contreras, former archbishop of Mexico; and Luis de Velasco, marqués de Salinas, former viceroy of both Mexico and Peru. \n\nAlthough initially the Council had responsibility for all aspects of the Indies, under Philip II the financial aspects of the empire were shifted to the Council on Finance in 1556-57, a source of conflict between the two councils, especially since Spanish America came to be the source of the empire's wealth. When the Holy Office of the Inquisition was established as an institution in Mexico and Lima in the 1570s, the Council of the Indies was removed from control. The head of the Supreme Council of the Inquisition, became president of the Council of the Indies 1571-75. He was appalled by the ignorance of the Indies by those serving on the Council. He sought the creation of a general description of the territories, which was never completed, but the \"Relaciones geográficas\" were the result of that project.\n\nThe height of the Council's power was in the sixteenth century. Its power declined and the quality of the councillors decreased. In the final years of the Hapsburg dynasty, some appointments were sold or were accorded to people obviously unqualified, such as a nine-year-old boy, whose father had rendered services to the crown.\n\nWith the ascension of the Bourbon dynasty at the start of the eighteenth century, a series of administrative changes, known as the Bourbon reforms, were introduced. In 1714 Philip V created a Secretariat of the Navy and the Indies (\"Secretaría de Marina e Indias\") with a single Minister of the Indies, which superseded the administrative functions of the Council, although the Council continued to function in a secondary role until the nineteenth century. Fifty years later Charles III set up a separate Secretary of State for the Indies (\"Secretarío del Estado del Despacho Universal de Indias\"). In the late eighteenth century, the Council became powerful and prestigious again, with a great number of well qualified councillors with experience in the Indies. In 1808 Napoleon invaded Spain placed his brother, Joseph Napoleon on the throne. The Cádiz Cortes, the body Spaniards considered the legitimate government in Spain and its overseas territories in the absence of their Bourbon monarch, abolished the Council in 1812. It was restored in 1814 upon Ferdinand VII's restoration, and the autocratic monarch appointed a great number of Councillors with American experience. The Council was finally abolished in 1834, a year after Ferdinand VII's death and after the loss of most of Spain's empire in the Americas.\n\nThe archives of the Council, the \"Archivo General de Indias\" one of the major centers of documentation for Spanish, Spanish American, and European history, are housed in Seville.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28312696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28312696", "title": "David Gordon (philosopher)", "text": "David Gordon (philosopher)\n\nDavid Gordon (born April 7, 1948) is an American libertarian philosopher and intellectual historian influenced by Rothbardian views of economics. Peter J. Boettke, in his Reason Foundation \"Reason Papers,\" Issue No. 19, Fall 1994, describes Gordon as \"a philosopher and intellectual historian who is deeply influenced by the Rothbardian strand of economics.\" He is a senior fellow at the Ludwig von Mises Institute and editor of \"The Mises Review.\n\nGordon received degrees from University of California Los Angeles, including a Doctorate in intellectual history. He became a specialist on Murray Rothbard.\n\nIn 1985 Gordon worked with professor Walter Block on a law review article entitled, \"Extortion and the Exercise of Free Speech Rights,\" which explores contradictions and paradoxes in laws against blackmail and the conditions under which such laws are acceptable.\n\nHe has contributed to scholarly publications such as \"Analysis\", \"International Philosophical Quarterly\", \"The Journal of Libertarian Studies\", \"The Quarterly Journal of Austrian Economics\", \"Social Philosophy and Policy\" and \"Econ Journal Watch\".\n\nHe also has been published in \"The Orange County Register\", \"The American Conservative\" and \"The Freeman\".\n\nGordon’s 1991 book \"Resurrecting Marx: The Analytical Marxists on Freedom, Exploitation, and Justice\" was described by Mises Institute scholar Yuri Maltsev as \"a refutation of neo-Marxist attempts to save the system from itself.\" The book, which answers the arguments of Marxist political philosophers, including Gerald Cohen, Jon Elster and John Roemer, dismisses every form of Marxism as theoretically unviable. The \"American Political Science Review\" said Gordon's argument was \"rather crude\": capitalism could not be exploitative, and \"laissez-faire\" capitalism could serve a just world. Therefore, Gordon concludes, Marxism is \"a complete failure.\" \"Contemporary Sociology\" said Gordon failed to show that analytical Marxists were \"a formidable weapon in the hands of anti-Marxists\" such as himself. Gordon was said to have shown little competency in anti-Marxist argument, falling into \"easily avoided mistakes.\"\n\n\"The Review of Metaphysics\" assessed the book more positively, describing how Gordon successfully accomplished his explicit goal of demonstrating how Cohen, Elster and Roemer had failed to \"rehabilitate Marx's economic theories\". The review said that Gordon's book suggested an unstated second goal, that of Gordon justifying his own libertarian stance, and that this portion of the book was \"by far the most stimulating\". Oxford political scientist David Leopold noted Gordon's thumbnail test regarding whether a writer could be classified as an analytical Marxist as part of a common \"misleading and unfortunate\" understanding of the school, Gordon writing that a favorable stance on dialectics meant that the writer must be \"crossed off the list.\"\n\nGordon's book \"The Philosophical Origins of Austrian Economics\" (1992), which explores the philosophical origins of Carl Menger’s economic theories, was highly praised by Murray Rothbard. Writing in \"The Review of Austrian Economics\", Barry Smith criticized the book for its over-simplistic division of philosophers into two camps—German (Hegelian, organicist and anti-science) and Austrian (Aristotelian, individualist and pro-science)—despite the philosophers having more complex interrelations. For instance Franz Brentano is exemplary of Austrian thought though he was born in Germany and was strongly influenced by German philosopher Friedrich Adolf Trendelenburg. Gordon later wrote an essay, \"Second Thoughts on The Philosophical Origins of Austrian Economics,\" to provide some additions and corrections to his book.\n\nGordon edited the collection, \"Secession, State & Liberty\" (2002), eleven essays that suggest that secession should be given serious consideration. The essays examine United States history, look at theoretical issues, and apply theory to the modern world.\n\nIn 2011 Gordon conducted a study with Swedish consultant Per Nilsson on books published by Harvard University Press. They published the results of their analysis as \"The Ideological Profile of Harvard University Press: Categorizing 494 Books Published 2000–2010\" in \"Econ Journal Watch.\" They presented a spread sheet analysis that classified the books by unknown criteria, concluding the issue was not that Harvard press \"is ideological, but that its ideology is predominately leftist.\" The authors acknowledged they had not read all the books they classified. A reviewer noted that one author did not consider his book \"leftist,\" and that the reason other books were so characterized was not clear.\n\nMurray Rothbard described Gordon as a friend and \"Mr. Erudition.\" In Hans-Hermann Hoppe's \"The Myth of National Defense\", Luigi Marco Bassani and Carlo Lottieri described Gordon as the \"semiofficial reviewer of the libertarian community.\" Journalist Brian Doherty, in his foreword to Rothbard's \"Strictly Confidential\" (2010), writes that Gordon is \"the only man around who knows as much as Rothbard did when it comes to the historical, philosophical and economic background of libertarianism.\" \"The Orange Country Register\" in an editorial described Gordon as a \"polymath.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26054090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26054090", "title": "Diocles of Peparethus", "text": "Diocles of Peparethus\n\nDiocles of Peparethus (; fl. late 4th – early 3rd century BC) was a historian from the Greek island of Peparethus. His works are lost, but they included histories of Persia and Rome: Quintus Fabius Pictor and Plutarch acknowledge their debts to the latter as a source for their histories of early Rome, its native traditions and ancestral Greek connections. Fabius' work survives only as a brief but historically significant catalogue summary. Plutarch seems to have relied on Fabius' history but acknowledges Diocles as its basis and authority. Diocles' own sources are unknown. He may have had access to Roman sources and traditions on which he foisted Greek interpretations and interpolations. \nLittle else is known of Diocles. He appears to have been a figure of note, well travelled, and abstemious; Athenaeus cites Demetrius of Scepsis to attest that Diocles \"drank cold water to the day of his death\".\n"}
{"id": "39699737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39699737", "title": "Eco-socialism", "text": "Eco-socialism\n\nEco-socialism, green socialism or socialist ecology is an ideology merging aspects of socialism with that of green politics, ecology and alter-globalization or anti-globalization. Eco-socialists generally believe that the expansion of the capitalist system is the cause of social exclusion, poverty, war and environmental degradation through globalization and imperialism, under the supervision of repressive states and transnational structures.\n\nEco-socialists advocate dismantling capitalism, focusing on common ownership of the means of production by freely associated producers, and restoring the commons. Caroline Lucas, former leader of the Green Party of England and Wales, has described her party's brand of socialism as appealing to both middle-class environmentalists as well as working-class socialists.\n\nEco-socialists are critical of many past and existing forms of both Green politics and socialism. They are often described as \"Red Greens\" - adherents to Green politics with clear anti-capitalist views, often inspired by Marxism (Red Greens are in contrast to eco-capitalists and Green anarchists).\n\nThe term \"watermelon\" is commonly applied, often pejoratively, to Greens who seem to put \"social justice\" goals above ecological ones, implying they are \"green on the outside but red on the inside\"; the term is usually attributed to either Petr Beckmann or, more frequently, Warren T. Brookes, both critics of environmentalism, and is common in Australia, New Zealand and the United States.\n\nA New Zealand website, \"The Watermelon\", uses the term proudly, stating that it is \"green on the outside and liberal on the inside\", while also citing \"socialist political leanings\", reflecting the use of the term \"liberal\" to describe the left wing in many English-speaking countries. Red Greens are often considered \"fundies\" or \"fundamentalist greens\", a term usually associated with Deep Ecology even though the German Green Party \"fundi\" faction included eco-socialists, and eco-socialists in other Green Parties, like Derek Wall, have been described in the press as fundies.\n\nEco-socialists also criticise bureaucratic and elite theories of self-described socialism such as Maoism, Stalinism and what other critics have termed bureaucratic collectivism or state capitalism. Instead, eco-socialists focus on imbuing socialism with ecology while keeping the emancipatory goals of \"first-epoch\" socialism. Eco-socialists aim for communal ownership of the means of production by \"freely associated producers\" with all forms of domination eclipsed, especially gender inequality and racism.\n\nThis often includes the restoration of commons land in opposition to private property, in which local control of resources valorizes the Marxist concept of use value above exchange value. Practically, eco-socialists have generated various strategies to mobilise action on an internationalist basis, developing networks of grassroots individuals and groups that can radically transform society through nonviolent \"prefigurative projects\" for a post-capitalist, post-statist world.\n\nContrary to the depiction of Karl Marx by some environmentalists, social ecologists and fellow socialists as a productivist who favoured the domination of nature, eco-socialists have revisited Marx's writings and believe that he \"was a main originator of the ecological world-view\". Eco-socialist authors, like John Bellamy Foster and Paul Burkett, point to Marx's discussion of a \"metabolic rift\" between man and nature, his statement that \"private ownership of the globe by single individuals will appear quite absurd as private ownership of one man by another\" and his observation that a society must \"hand it [the planet] down to succeeding generations in an improved condition\". Nonetheless, other eco-socialists feel that Marx overlooked a \"recognition of nature in and for itself\", ignoring its \"receptivity\" and treating nature as \"subjected to labor from the start\" in an \"entirely active relationship\".\n\nWilliam Morris, the English novelist, poet and designer, is largely credited with developing key principles of what was later called eco-socialism. During the 1880s and 1890s, Morris promoted his eco-socialist ideas within the Social Democratic Federation and Socialist League.\n\nFollowing the Russian Revolution, some environmentalists and environmental scientists attempted to integrate ecological consciousness into Bolshevism, although many such people were later purged from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The \"pre-revolutionary environmental movement\", encouraged by revolutionary scientist Aleksandr Bogdanov and the Proletkul't organisation, made efforts to \"integrate production with natural laws and limits\" in the first decade of Soviet rule, before Joseph Stalin attacked ecologists and the science of ecology and the Soviet Union fell into the pseudo-science of the state biologist Trofim Lysenko, who \"set about to rearrange the Russian map\" in ignorance of environmental limits.\n\nGreen anarchism, or ecoanarchism, is a school of thought within anarchism which puts a particular emphasis on environmental issues. An important early influence was the thought of the American anarchist Henry David Thoreau and his book \"Walden\" as well as Leo Tolstoy and Elisee Reclus. In the late 19th century there emerged anarcho-naturism as the fusion of anarchism and naturist philosophies within individualist anarchist circles in France, Spain, Cuba and Portugal. Several anarchists from the mid-20th century, including Herbert Read, Ethel Mannin, Leopold Kohr, Jacques Ellul, and Paul Goodman, also held proto-environmental\nviews linked to their anarchism. Mannin's 1944 book \"Bread and Roses: A Utopian Survey and Blue-Print\" has been described by anarchist historian Robert Graham as setting forth \"an ecological vision in opposition to the prevailing and destructive industrial organization of society\". Important contemporary currents are anarcho-primitivism and social ecology.\n\nSocial ecology is closely related to the work and ideas of Murray Bookchin and influenced by anarchist Peter Kropotkin. Social ecologists assert that the present ecological crisis has its roots in human social problems, and that the domination of human-over-nature stems from the domination of human-over-human. In 1958, Murray Bookchin defined himself as an anarchist, seeing parallels between anarchism and ecology. His first book, \"Our Synthetic Environment,\" was published under the pseudonym Lewis Herber in 1962, a few months before Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\". The book described a broad range of environmental ills but received little attention because of its political radicalism. His groundbreaking essay \"Ecology and Revolutionary Thought\" introduced ecology as a concept in radical politics. In 1968 he founded another group that published the influential \"Anarchos\" magazine, which published that and other innovative essays on post-scarcity and on ecological technologies such as solar and wind energy, and on decentralization and miniaturization. Lecturing throughout the United States, he helped popularize the concept of ecology to the counterculture.\n\n\"Post-Scarcity Anarchism\" is a collection of essays written by Murray Bookchin and first published in 1971 by Ramparts Press. It outlines the possible form anarchism might take under conditions of post-scarcity. It is one of Bookchin's major works, and its radical thesis provoked controversy for being utopian and messianic in its faith in the liberatory potential of technology. Bookchin argues that post-industrial societies are also post-scarcity societies, and can thus imagine \"the fulfillment of the social and cultural potentialities latent in a technology of abundance\". The self-administration of society is now made possible by technological advancement and, when technology is used in an ecologically sensitive manner, the revolutionary potential of society will be much changed. In 1982, his book \"The Ecology of Freedom\" had a profound impact on the emerging ecology movement, both in the United States and abroad. He was a principal figure in the Burlington Greens in 1986-90, an ecology group that ran candidates for city council on a program to create neighborhood democracy.\n\nBookchin later developed a political philosophy to complement social ecology which he called \"Communalism\" (spelled with a capital \"C\" to differentiate it from other forms of communalism). While originally conceived as a form of Social anarchism, he later developed Communalism into a separate ideology which incorporates what he saw as the most beneficial elements of Anarchism, Marxism, syndicalism, and radical ecology.\n\nPolitically, Communalists advocate a network of directly democratic citizens' assemblies in individual communities/cities organized in a confederal fashion. This method used to achieve this is called Libertarian Municipalism which involves the establishment of face-to-face democratic institutions which are to grow and expand confederally with the goal of eventually replacing the nation-state.\n\nIn the 1970s, Barry Commoner, suggesting a left-wing response to \"The Limits to Growth\" model that predicted catastrophic resource depletion and spurred environmentalism, postulated that capitalist technologies were chiefly responsible for environmental degradation, as opposed to population pressures. East German dissident writer and activist Rudolf Bahro published two books addressing the relationship between socialism and ecology – \"The Alternative in Eastern Europe\" and \"Socialism and Survival\" – which promoted a 'new party' and led to his arrest, for which he gained international notoriety.\n\nAt around the same time, Alan Roberts, an Australian Marxist, posited that people's unfulfilled needs fuelled consumerism. Fellow Australian Ted Trainer further called upon socialists to develop a system that met human needs, in contrast to the capitalist system of created wants. A key development in the 1980s was the creation of the journal \"Capitalism, Nature, Socialism\" (CNS) with James O'Connor as founding editor and the first issue in 1988. The debates ensued led to a host of theoretical works by O'Connor, Carolyn Merchant, Paul Burkett and others.\n\nThe Australian Democratic Socialist Party launched the Green Left Weekly newspaper in 1991, following a period of working within Green Alliance and Green Party groups in formation. This ceased when the Australian Greens adopted a policy of proscription of other political groups in August 1991. The DSP also published a comprehensive policy resolution, \"Socialism and Human Survival\" in book form in 1990, with an expanded second edition in 1999 entitled \"Environment, Capitalism & Socialism\".\n\nThe 1990s saw the socialist feminists Mary Mellor and Ariel Salleh address environmental issues within an eco-socialist paradigm. With the rising profile of the anti-globalization movement in the Global South, an \"environmentalism of the poor\", combining ecological awareness and social justice, has also become prominent. David Pepper also released his important work, \"Ecosocialism: From Deep Ecology to Social Justice\", in 1994, which critiques the current approach of many within Green politics, particularly deep ecologists.\n\nIn 2001, Joel Kovel, a social scientist, psychiatrist and former candidate for the Green Party of the United States (GPUS) Presidential nomination in 2000, and Michael Löwy, an anthropologist and member of the Reunified Fourth International (a principal Trotskyist organisation), released \"An ecosocialist manifesto\", which has been adopted by some organisations and suggests possible routes for the growth of eco-socialist consciousness. Kovel's 2002 work, \"The Enemy of Nature: The End of Capitalism or the End of the World?\", is considered by many to be the most up-to-date exposition of eco-socialist thought.\n\nIn October 2007, the International Ecosocialist Network was founded in Paris.\n\nCurrently, many Green Parties around the world, such as the Dutch Green Left Party (GroenLinks) , contain strong eco-socialist elements. Radical Red-green alliances have been formed in many countries by eco-socialists, radical Greens and other radical left groups. In Denmark, the Red-Green Alliance was formed as a coalition of numerous radical parties. Within the European Parliament, a number of far-left parties from Northern Europe have organized themselves into the Nordic Green Left Alliance. Red Greens feature heavily in the Green Party of Saskatchewan (in Canada but not necessarily affiliated to the Green Party of Canada) and then-recently GPUS that officially adopted ideology within party.\n\nThe Green Party of England and Wales features an eco-socialist group, Green Left, that was founded in June 2005 and whose members hold a number of influential positions within the party, including both the former Principal Speakers Siân Berry and Dr. Derek Wall, himself an eco-socialist and Marxist academic, as well as prominent Green Party candidate and human rights activist Peter Tatchell. Many Marxist organisations also contain eco-socialists, as evidenced by Löwy's involvement in the reunified Fourth International and \"Socialist Resistance\", a British Marxist newspaper that reports on eco-socialist issues and has published two collections of essays on eco-socialist thought: \"Ecosocialism or Barbarism?\", edited by Jane Kelly and Sheila Malone, and \"The Global Fight for Climate Justice\", edited by Ian Angus with a foreword by Derek Wall.\n\nEco-socialism has had a minor influence over developments in the environmental policies of what can be called \"existing socialist\" regimes, notably the People's Republic of China. Pan Yue, Deputy Director of the PRC's State Environmental Protection Administration, has acknowledged the influence of eco-socialist theory on his championing of environmentalism within China, which has gained him international acclaim (including being nominated for the Person of the Year Award 2006 by \"The New Statesman\", a British current affairs magazine). Yue stated in an interview that, while he often finds eco-socialist theory \"too idealistic\" and lacking \"ways of solving actual problems\", he believes that it provides \"political reference for China’s scientific view of development\", \"gives socialist ideology room to expand\" and offers \"a theoretical basis for the establishment of fair international rules\" on the environment.\n\nHe echoes much of eco-socialist thought, attacking international \"environmental inequality\", refusing to focus on technological fixes and arguing for the construction of \"a harmonious, resource-saving and environmentally-friendly society\". He also shows a knowledge of eco-socialist history, from the convergence of radical green politics and socialism and their political \"red-green alliances\" in the post-Soviet era. This focus on eco-socialism has informed an essay, \"On Socialist Ecological Civilisation\", published in September 2006, which, according to chinadialogue, \"sparked debate\" in China.\nThe current Constitution of Bolivia, promulgated in 2009, is the first both ecologic and pro-socialist Constitution in the world, making the Bolivian state officially ecosocialist.\n\nIn 2007, it was announced that attempts to form an Ecosocialist International Network (EIN) would be made and an inaugural meeting of the International occurred on October 7, 2007 in Paris. The meeting attracted \"more than 60 activists from Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the United States\" and elected a steering committee featuring representatives from Britain, the United States, Canada, France, Greece, Argentina, Brazil and Australia, including Joel Kovel, Michael Löwy, Derek Wall, Ian Angus (editor of Climate and Capitalism in Canada) and Ariel Salleh. The Committee states that it wants \"to incorporate members from China, India, Africa, Oceania and Eastern Europe\". EIN held its second international conference in January 2009, in association with the next World Social Forum in Brazil\". The conference released The Belem Ecosocialist Declaration.\n\nInternational networking by eco-socialists has already been seen in the Praxis Research and Education Center, a group on international researchers and activists. Based in Moscow and established in 1997, Praxis, as well as publishing books \"by libertarian socialists, Marxist humanists, anarchists, [and] syndicalists\", running the Victor Serge Library and opposing war in Chechnya, states that it believes \"that capitalism has brought life on the planet near to the brink of catastrophe, and that a form of ecosocialism needs to emerge to replace capitalism before it is too late\".\n\nMerging aspects of Marxism, socialism, environmentalism and ecology, eco-socialists generally believe that the capitalist system is the cause of social exclusion, inequality and environmental degradation through globalization and imperialism under the supervision of repressive states and transnational structures.\n\nIn the \"Ecosocialist manifesto\", Kovel and Löwy suggest that capitalist expansion causes both \"crises of ecology\" through \"rampant industrialization\" and \"societal breakdown\" that springs \"from the form of imperialism known as globalization\". They believe that capitalism's expansion \"exposes ecosystems\" to pollutants, habitat destruction and resource depletion, \"reducing the sensuous vitality of nature to the cold exchangeability required for the accumulation of capital\", while submerging \"the majority of the world's people to a mere reservoir of labor power\" as it penetrates communities through \"consumerism and depoliticization\".\n\nOther eco-socialists, like Wall, highlight how, in the Global South, free-market capitalism structures economies to produce export-geared crops that take water from traditional subsistence farms, increasing hunger and the likelihood of famine; furthermore, forests are increasingly cleared and enclosed to produce cash crops that separate people from their local means of production and aggravate poverty. Wall shows that many of the world's poor have access to the means of production through \"non-monetised communal means of production\", such as subsistence farming, but, despite providing for need and a level of prosperity, these are not included in conventional economics measures, like GNP.\n\nWall therefore views neo-liberal globalization as \"part of the long struggle of the state and commercial interests to steal from those who subsist\" by removing \"access to the resources that sustain ordinary people across the globe\". Furthermore, Kovel sees neoliberalism as \"a return to the pure logic of capital\" that \"has effectively swept away measures which had inhibited capital’s aggressivity, replacing them with naked exploitation of humanity and nature\"; for Kovel, this \"tearing down of boundaries and limits to accumulation is known as globalization\", which was \"a deliberate response to a serious accumulation crisis (in the 1970s) that had convinced the leaders of the global economy to install what we know as neoliberalism.\".\n\nFurthermore, Guha and Martinez-Alier blame globalization for creating increased levels of waste and pollution, and then dumping the waste on the most vulnerable in society, particularly those in the Global South. Others have also noted that capitalism disproportionately affects the poorest in the Global North as well, leading to examples of resistance such as the environmental justice movement in the United States, consisting of working-class people and ethnic minorities who highlight the tendency for waste dumps, major road projects and incinerators to be constructed around socially excluded areas. However, as Wall highlights, such campaigns are often ignored or persecuted precisely because they originate among the most marginalized in society: the African-American radical green religious group MOVE, campaigning for ecological revolution and animal rights from Philadelphia, had many members imprisoned or even killed by US authorities from the 1970s onwards.\n\nEco-socialism disagrees with the elite theories of capitalism, which tend to label a specific class or social group as conspirators who construct a system that satisfies their greed and personal desires. Instead, eco-socialists suggest that the very system itself is self-perpetuating, fuelled by \"extra-human\" or \"impersonal\" forces. Kovel uses the Bhopal industrial disaster as an example. Many anti-corporate observers would blame the avarice of those at the top of many multi-national corporations, such as the Union Carbide Corporation in Bhopal, for seemingly isolated industrial accidents. Conversely, Kovel suggests that Union Carbide were experiencing a decrease in sales that led to falling profits, which, due to stock market conditions, translated into a drop in share values. The depreciation of share value made many shareholders sell their stock, weakening the company and leading to cost-cutting measures that eroded the safety procedures and mechanisms at the Bhopal site. Though this did not, in Kovel's mind, make the Bhopal disaster inevitable, he believes that it illustrates the effect market forces can have on increasing the likelihood of ecological and social problems.\n\nEco-socialism focuses closely on Marx's theories about the contradiction between use values and exchange values. Kovel posits that, within a market economy, goods are not produced to meet needs but are produced to be exchanged for money that we then use to acquire other goods; as we have to keep selling in order to keep buying, we must persuade others to buy our goods just to ensure our survival, which leads to the production of goods with no previous use that can be sold to sustain our ability to buy other goods.\n\nSuch goods, in an eco-socialist analysis, produce exchange values but have no use value. Eco-socialists like Kovel stress that this contradiction has reached a destructive extent, where certain essential activities - such as caring for relatives full-time and basic subsistence – are unrewarded, while unnecessary commodities earn individuals huge fortunes and fuel consumerism and resource depletion.\n\nJames O'Connor argues for a \"second contradiction\" of underproduction, to complement Marx's \"first\" contradiction of capital and labor. While the second contradiction is often considered a theory of environmental degradation, O'Connor's theory in fact goes much further. Building on the work of Karl Polanyi, along with Marx, O'Connor argues that capitalism necessarily undermines the \"conditions of production\" necessary to sustain the endless accumulation of capital. These conditions of production include soil, water, energy, and so forth. But they also include an adequate public education system, transportation infrastructures, and other services that are not produced directly by capital, but which capital needs in order accumulate effectively. As the conditions of production are exhausted, the costs of production for capital increase. For this reason, the second contradiction generates an underproduction crisis tendency, with the rising cost of inputs and labor, to complement the overproduction tendency of too many commodities for too few customers. Like Marx's contradiction of capital and labor, the second contradiction therefore threatens the system's existence.\n\nIn addition, O'Connor believes that, in order to remedy environmental contradictions, the capitalist system innovates new technologies that overcome existing problems but introduce new ones.\n\nO'Connor cites nuclear power as an example, which he sees as a form of producing energy that is advertised as an alternative to carbon-intensive, non-renewable fossil fuels, but creates long-term radioactive waste and other dangers to health and security. While O'Connor believes that capitalism is capable of spreading out its economic supports so widely that it can afford to destroy one ecosystem before moving onto another, he and many other eco-socialists now fear that, with the onset of globalization, the system is running out of new ecosystems. Kovel adds that capitalist firms have to continue to extract profit through a combination of intensive or extensive exploitation and selling to new markets, meaning that capitalism must grow indefinitely to exist, which he thinks is impossible on a planet of finite resources.\n\nCapitalist expansion is seen by eco-socialists as being \"hand in glove\" with \"corrupt and subservient client states\" that repress dissent against the system, governed by international organisations \"under the overall supervision of the Western powers and the superpower United States\", which subordinate peripheral nations economically and militarily. Kovel further claims that capitalism itself spurs conflict and, ultimately, war. Kovel states that the 'War on Terror', between Islamist extremists and the United States, is caused by \"oil imperialism\", whereby the capitalist nations require control over sources of energy, especially oil, which are necessary to continue intensive industrial growth - in the quest for control of such resources, Kovel argues that the capitalist nations, specifically the United States, have come into conflict with the predominantly Muslim nations where oil is often found.\n\nEco-socialists believe that state or self-regulation of markets does not solve the crisis \"because to do so requires setting limits upon accumulation\", which is \"unacceptable\" for a growth-orientated system; they believe that terrorism and revolutionary impulses cannot be tackled properly \"because to do so would mean abandoning the logic of empire\". Instead, eco-socialists feel that increasing repressive counter-terrorism increases alienation and causes further terrorism and believe that state counter-terrorist methods are, in Kovel and Löwy's words, \"evolving into a new and malignant variation of fascism\". They echo Rosa Luxemburg's \"stark choice\" between \"socialism or barbarism\", which was believed to be a prediction of the coming of fascism and further forms of destructive capitalism at the beginning of the twentieth century (Luxemburg was in fact murdered by proto-fascist Freikorps in the revolutionary atmosphere of Germany in 1919).\n\nReflecting tensions within the environmental and socialist movements, there is some conflict of ideas. In practice however, a synthesis is emerging which calls for democratic regulation of industry in the interests of people and the environment, nationalisation of some key (environmental) industries, local democracy and an extension of co-ops and the library principle.\n\nEco-socialists criticise many within the Green movement for not being overtly anti-capitalist, for working within the existing capitalist, statist system, for voluntarism, or for reliance on technological fixes. The eco-socialist ideology is based on a critique of other forms of Green politics, including various forms of green economics, localism, deep ecology, bioregionalism and even some manifestations of radical green ideologies such as eco-feminism and social ecology.\n\nAs Kovel puts it, eco-socialism differs from Green politics at the most fundamental level because the 'Four Pillars' of Green politics (and the 'Ten Key Values' of the US Green Party) do not include the demand for the emancipation of labour and the end of the separation between producers and the means of production. Many eco-socialists also oppose Malthusianism and are alarmed by the gulf between Green politics in the Global North and the Global South.\n\nEco-socialists are highly critical of those Greens who favour \"working within the system\". While eco-socialists like Kovel recognise the ability of within-system approaches to raise awareness, and believe that \"the struggle for an ecologically rational world must include a struggle for the state\", he believes that the mainstream Green movement is too easily co-opted by the current powerful socio-political forces as it \"passes from citizen-based activism to ponderous bureaucracies scuffling for 'a seat at the table'\".\n\nFor Kovel, capitalism is \"happy to enlist\" the Green movement for \"convenience\", \"control over popular dissent\" and \"rationalization\". He further attacks within-system green initiatives like carbon trading, which he sees as a \"capitalist shell game\" that turns pollution \"into a fresh source of profit\". Brian Tokar has further criticised carbon trading in this way, suggesting that it augments existing class inequality and gives the \"largest 'players'... substantial control over the whole 'game'\".\n\nIn addition, Kovel criticises the \"defeatism\" of voluntarism in some local forms of environmentalism that do not connect: he suggests that they can be \"drawn off into individualism\" or co-opted to the demands of capitalism, as in the case of certain recycling projects, where citizens are \"induced to provide free labor\" to waste management industries who are involved in the \"capitalization of nature\". He labels the notion on voluntarism \"ecopolitics without struggle\".\n\nTechnological fixes to ecological problems are also rejected by eco-socialists. Saral Sarkar has updated the thesis of 1970s 'limits to growth' to exemplify the limits of new capitalist technologies such as hydrogen fuel cells, which require large amounts of energy to split molecules to obtain hydrogen. Furthermore, Kovel notes that \"events in nature are reciprocal and multi-determined\" and can therefore not be predictably \"fixed\"; socially, technologies cannot solve social problems because they are not \"mechanical\". He posits an eco-socialist analysis, developed from Marx, that patterns of production and social organisation are more important than the forms of technology used within a given configuration of society.\n\nUnder capitalism, he suggests that technology \"has been the \"sine qua non\" of growth\" – thus he believes that, even in a world with hypothetical \"free energy\", the effect would be to lower the cost of automobile production, leading to the massive overproduction of vehicles, \"collapsing infrastructure\", chronic resource depletion and the \"paving over\" of the \"remainder of nature\". In the modern world, Kovel considers the supposed efficiency of new post-industrial commodities is a \"plain illusion\", as miniaturized components involve many substances and are therefore non-recyclable (and, theoretically, only simple substances could be retrieved by burning out-of-date equipment, releasing more pollutants). He is quick to warn \"environmental liberals\" against over-selling the virtues of renewable energies that cannot meet the mass energy consumption of the era; although he would still support renewable energy projects, he believes it is more important to restructure societies to reduce energy use before relying on renewable energy technologies alone.\n\nEco-socialists have based their ideas for political strategy on a critique of several different trends in Green economics. At the most fundamental level, eco-socialists reject what Kovel calls \"ecological economics\" or the \"ecological wing of mainstream economics\" for being \"uninterested in social transformation\". He furthers rejects the Neo-Smithian school, who believe in Adam Smith's vision of \"a capitalism of small producers, freely exchanging with each other\", which is self-regulating and competitive.\n\nThe school is represented by thinkers like David Korten who believe in \"regulated markets\" checked by government and civil society but, for Kovel, they do not provide a critique of the expansive nature of capitalism away from localised production and ignore \"questions of class, gender or any other category of domination\". Kovel also criticises their \"fairy-tale\" view of history, which refers to the abuse of \"natural capital\" by the materialism of the Scientific Revolution, an assumption that, in Kovel's eyes, seems to suggest that \"nature had toiled to put the gift of capital into human hands\", rather than capitalism being a product of social relations in human history.\n\nOther forms of community-based economics are also rejected by eco-socialists such as Kovel, including followers of E. F. Schumacher and some members of the cooperative movement, for advocating \"no more than a very halting and isolated first step\". He thinks that their principles are \"only partially realizable within the institutions of cooperatives in capitalist society\" because \"the internal cooperation\" of cooperatives is \"forever hemmed in and compromised\" by the need to expand value and compete within the market. Marx also believed that cooperatives within capitalism make workers into \"their own capitalist... by enabling them to use the means of production for the employment of their own labour\".\n\nFor Kovel and other eco-socialists, community-based economics and Green localism are \"a fantasy\" because \"strict localism belongs to the aboriginal stages of society\" and would be an \"ecological nightmare at present population levels\" due to \"heat losses from a multitude of dispersed sites, the squandering of scarce resources, the needless reproduction of effort, and cultural impoverishment\". While he feels that small-scale production units are \"an essential part of the path towards an ecological society\", he sees them not as \"an end in itself\"; in his view, small enterprises can be either capitalist or socialist in their configuration and therefore must be \"consistently anti-capitalist\", through recognition and support of the emancipation of labour, and exist \"in a dialectic with the whole of things\", as human society will need large-scale projects, such as transport infrastructures.\n\nHe highlights the work of steady-state theorist Herman Daly, who exemplifies what eco-socialists see as the good and bad points of ecological economics — while Daly offers a critique of capitalism and a desire for \"workers ownership\", he only believes in workers ownership \"kept firmly within a capitalist market\", ignoring the eco-socialist desire for struggle in the emancipation of labour and hoping that the interests of labour and management today can be improved so that they are \"in harmony\".\n\nDespite the inclusion of both in political factions like the 'Fundies' of the German Green Party, eco-socialists and deep ecologists hold markedly opposite views. Eco-socialists like Kovel have attacked deep ecology because, like other forms of Green politics and Green economics, it features \"virtuous souls\" who have \"no internal connection with the critique of capitalism and the emancipation of labor\". Kovel is particularly scathing about deep ecology and its \"fatuous pronouncement\" that Green politics is \"neither left nor right, but ahead\", which, for him, ignores the notion that \"that which does not confront the system comes its instrument\".\n\nEven more scathingly, Kovel suggests that in \"its effort to decentre humanity within nature\", deep ecologists can \"go too far\" and argue for the \"splitting away of unwanted people\", as evidenced by their desire to preserve wilderness by removing the groups that have lived there \"from time immemorial\". Kovel thinks that this lends legitimacy to \"capitalist elites\", like the US State Department and the World Bank, who can make preservation of wilderness a part of their projects that \"have added value as sites for ecotourism\" but remove people from their land. Between 1986 and 1996, Kovel notes that over three million people were displaced by \"conservation projects\"; in the making of the US National Parks, three hundred Shoshone Indians were killed in the development of Yosemite.\n\nKovel believes that deep ecology has affected the rest of the Green movement and led to calls from restrictions on immigration, \"often allying with reactionaries in a... cryptically racist quest\". Indeed, he finds traces of deep ecology in the \"biological reduction\" of Nazism, an ideology many \"organicist thinkers\" have found appealing, including Herbert Gruhl, a founder of the German Green Party (who subsequently left when it became more left-wing) and originator of the phrase \"neither left nor right, but ahead\". Kovel warns that, while 'ecofascism' is confined to a narrow band of far right intellectuals and disaffected white power skinheads who involved themselves alongside far left groups in the anti-globalization movement, it may be \"imposed as a revolution from above to install an authoritarian regime in order to preserve the main workings of the system\" in times of crisis.\n\nBioregionalism, a philosophy developed by writers like Kirkpatrick Sale who believe in the self-sufficiency of \"appropriate bioregional boundaries\" drawn up by inhabitants of \"an area\", has been thoroughly critiqued by Kovel, who fears that the \"vagueness\" of the area will lead to conflict and further boundaries between communities. While Sale cites the bioregional living of Native Americans, Kovel notes that such ideas are impossible to translate to populations of modern proportions, and evidences the fact that Native Americans held land in commons, rather than private property – thus, for eco-socialists, bioregionalism provides no understanding of what is needed to transform society, and what the inevitable \"response of the capitalist state\" would be to people constructing bioregionalism.\n\nKovel also attacks the problems of self-sufficiency. Where Sale believes in self-sufficient regions \"each developing the energy of its peculiar ecology\", such as \"wood in the northwest [USA]\", Kovel asks \"how on earth\" these can be made sufficient for regional needs, and notes the environmental damage of converting Seattle into a \"forest-destroying and smoke-spewing wood-burning\" city. Kovel also questions Sale's insistence on bioregions that do \"not require connections with the outside, but within strict limits\", and whether this precludes journeys to visit family members and other forms of travel.\n\nLike many variants of socialism and Green politics, eco-socialists recognise the importance of \"the gendered bifurcation of nature\" and support the emancipation of gender as it \"is at the root of patriarchy and class\". Nevertheless, while Kovel believes that \"any path out of capitalism must also be eco-feminist\", he criticises types of ecofeminism that are not anti-capitalist and can \"essentialize women's closeness to nature and build from there, submerging history into nature\", becoming more at place in the \"comforts of the New Age Growth Centre\". These limitations, for Kovel, \"keep ecofeminism from becoming a coherent social movement\".\n\nWhile having much in common with the radical tradition of Social Ecology, eco-socialists still see themselves as distinct. Kovel believes this is because social ecologists see hierarchy \"in-itself\" as the cause of ecological destruction, whereas eco-socialists focus on gender and class domination embodied in capitalism and recognise that forms of authority that are not \"an expropriation of human power for... self-aggrandizement\", such as a student-teacher relationship that is \"reciprocal and mutual\", are beneficial.\n\nIn practice, Kovel describes social ecology as continuing the anarchist tradition of non-violent direct action, which is \"necessary\" but \"not sufficient\" because \"it leaves unspoken the question of building an ecological society beyond capital\". Furthermore, Social Ecologists and anarchists tend to focus on the state alone, rather than the class relations behind state domination (in the view of Marxists). Kovel fears that this is political, springing from historic hostility to Marxism among anarchists and sectarianism, which he points out as a fault of the \"brilliant\" but \"dogmatic\" founder of social ecology, Murray Bookchin.\n\nWhile Malthusianism and eco-socialism overlap within the Green movement because both address over-industrialism, and despite the fact that Eco-socialists, like many within the Green movement, are described as neo-Malthusian because of their criticism of economic growth, Eco-socialists are opposed to Malthusianism. This divergence stems from the difference between Marxist and Malthusian examinations of social injustice – whereas Marx blames inequality on class injustice, Malthus argued that the working-class remained poor because of their greater fertility and birth rates.\n\nNeo-Malthusians have slightly modified this analysis by increasing their focus on overconsumption – nonetheless, eco-socialists find this attention inadequate. They point to the fact that Malthus did not thoroughly examine ecology and that Garrett Hardin, a key Neo-Malthusian, suggested that further enclosed and privatised land, as opposed to commons, would solve the chief environmental problem, which Hardin labeled the 'tragedy of the commons'.\n\nGuha and Martinez-Alier attack the gulf between what they see as the two \"varieties of environmentalism\" – the environmentalism of the North, an aesthetic environmentalism that is the privilege of wealthy people who no longer have basic material concerns, and the environmentalism of the South, where people's local environment is a source of communal wealth and such issues are a question of survival. Nonetheless, other eco-socialists, such as Wall, have also pointed out that capitalism disproportionately affects the poorest in the Global North as well, leading to examples of resistance such as the environmental justice movement in the US and groups like MOVE.\n\nEco-socialists choose to use the term 'socialist', despite \"the failings of its twentieth century interpretations\", because it \"still stands for the supersession of capital\" and thus \"the name, and the reality\" must \"become adequate for this time\". Eco-socialists have nonetheless often diverged with other Marxist movements. Eco-socialism has also been partly influenced by and associated with agrarian socialism as well as some forms of Christian socialism, especially in the United States.\nFor Kovel and Lowy, eco-socialism is \"the realization of the “first-epoch” socialisms\" by resurrecting the notion of \"free development of all producers\", distancing themselves from \"the attenuated, reformist aims of social democracy and the productivist structures of the bureaucratic variations of socialism\", such as forms of Leninism and Stalinism. They ground the failure of past socialist movements in \"underdevelopment in the context of hostility by existing capitalist powers\", which led to \"the denial of internal democracy\" and \"emulation of capitalist productivism\". Kovel believes that the forms of 'actually existing socialism' consisted of \"public ownership of the means of production\", rather than meeting \"the true definition\" of socialism as \"a free association of producers\", with the Party-State bureaucracy acting as the \"alienating substitute 'public'\".\n\nIn analysing the Russian Revolution, Kovel feels that \"conspiratorial\" revolutionary movements \"cut off from the development of society\" will \"find society an inert mass requiring leadership from above\". From this, he notes that the anti-democratic Tsarist heritage meant that the Bolsheviks, who were aided into power by World War One, were a minority who, when faced with a counter-revolution and invading Western powers, continued \"the extraordinary needs of 'war communism'\", which \"put the seal of authoritarianism\" on the revolution; thus, for Kovel, Lenin and Trotsky \"resorted to terror\", shut down the Soviets (workers' councils) and emulated \"capitalist efficiency and productivism as a means of survival\", setting the stage for Stalinism.\n\nLenin, in Kovel's eyes, came to oppose the nascent Bolshevik environmentalism and its champion Aleksandr Bogdanov, who was later attacked for \"idealism\"; Kovel describes Lenin's philosophy as \"a sharply dualistic materialism, rather similar to the Cartesian separation of matter and consciousness, and perfectly tooled... to the active working over of the dead, dull matter by the human hand\", which led him to want to overcome Russian backwardness through rapid industrialization. This tendency was, according to Kovel, augmented by a desire to catch-up with the West and the \"severe crisis\" of the revolution's first years.\n\nFurthermore, Kovel quotes Trotsky, who believed in a Communist \"superman\" who would \"learn how to move rivers and mountains\". Kovel believes that, in Stalin's \"revolution from above\" and mass terror in response to the early 1930s economic crisis, Trotsky's writings \"were given official imprimatur\", despite the fact that Trotsky himself was eventually purged, as Stalinism attacked \"the very notion of ecology... in addition to ecologies\". Kovel adds that Stalin \"would win the gold medal for enmity to nature\", and that, in the face of massive environmental degradation, the inflexible Soviet bureaucracy became increasingly inefficient and unable to emulate capitalist accumulation, leading to a \"vicious cycle\" that led to its collapse.\n\nBeyond the forms of 'actually existing socialism', Kovel criticises socialists in general as treating ecology \"as an afterthought\" and holding \"a naive faith in the ecological capacities of a working-class defined by generations of capitalist production\". He cites David McNally, who advocates increasing consumption levels under socialism, which, for Kovel, contradicts any notion of natural limits. He also criticises McNally's belief in releasing the \"positive side of capital's self-expansion\" after the emancipation of labor; instead, Kovel argues that a socialist society would \"seek not to become larger\" but would rather become \"more \"realized\"\", choosing sufficiency and eschewing economic growth. Kovel further adds that the socialist movement was historically conditioned by its origins in the era of industrialization so that, when modern socialists like McNally advocate a socialism that \"cannot be at the expense of the range of human satisfaction\", they fail \"to recognize that these satisfactions can be problematic with respect to nature when they have been historically shaped by the domination of nature\".\n\nEco-socialists generally advocate the non-violent dismantling of capitalism and the state, focusing on collective ownership of the means of production by freely associated producers and restoration of the Commons. To get to an eco-socialist society, eco-socialists advocate working-class anti-capitalist resistance but also believe that there is potential for agency in autonomous, grassroots individuals and groups across the world who can build \"prefigurative\" projects for non-violent radical social change.\n\nThese prefigurative steps go \"beyond the market and the state\" and base production on the enhancement of use values, leading to the internationalization of resistance communities in an 'Eco-socialist Party' or network of grassroots groups focused on non-violent, radical social transformation. An 'Eco-socialist revolution' is then carried out.\nMany eco-socialists, like Alan Roberts, have encouraged working-class action and resistance, such as the 'green ban' movement in which workers refuse to participate in projects that are ecologically harmful. Similarly, Kovel focuses on working-class involvement in the formation of eco-socialist parties or their increased involvement in existing Green Parties; however, he believes that, unlike many other forms of socialist analysis, \"there is no privileged agent\" or revolutionary class, and that there is potential for agency in numerous autonomous, grassroots individuals and groups who can build \"prefigurative\" projects for non-violent radical social change. He defines \"prefiguration\" as \"the potential for the given to contain the lineaments of what is to be\", meaning that \"a moment toward the future exists embedded in every point of the social organism where a need arises\".\n\nIf \"everything has prefigurative potential\", Kovel notes that forms of potential ecological production will be \"scattered\", and thus suggests that \"the task is to free them and connect them\". While all \"human ecosystems\" have \"ecosocialist potential\", Kovel points out that ones such as the World Bank have low potential, whereas internally democratic anti-globalization \"affinity groups\" have a high potential through a dialectic that involves the \"active bringing and holding together of negations\", such as the group acting as an alternative institution (\"production of an ecological/socialist alternative\") and trying to shut down a G8 summit meeting (\"resistance to capital\"). Therefore, \"practices that in the same motion enhance use-values and diminish exchange-values are the ideal\" for eco-socialists.\n\nFor Kovel, the main prefigurative steps \"are that people ruthlessly criticize the capitalist system... and that they include in this a consistent attack on the widespread belief that there can be no alternative to it\", which will then \"deligitimate the system and release people into struggle\". Kovel justifies this by stating that \"radical criticism of the given... can be a material force\", even without an alternative, \"because it can seize the mind of the masses of people\", leading to \"dynamic\" and \"exponential\", rather than \"incremental\" and \"linear\", victories that spread rapidly. Following this, he advocates the expansion of the dialectical eco-socialist potential of groups through sustaining the confrontation and internal cohesion of human ecosystems, leading to an \"activation\" of potentials in others that will \"spread across the whole social field\" as \"a new set of orienting principles\" that define an ideology or \"'party-life' formation\".\n\nIn the short-term, eco-socialists like Kovel advocate activities that have the \"promise of breaking down the commodity form\". This includes organizing labor, which is a \"reconfiguring of the use-value of labor power\"; forming cooperatives, allowing \"a relatively free association of labor\"; forming localised currencies, which he sees as \"undercutting the value-basis of money\"; and supporting \"radical media\" that, in his eyes, involve an \"undoing of the fetishism of commodities\". Arran Gare, Wall and Kovel have advocated economic localisation in the same vein as many in the Green movement, although they stress that it must be a prefigurative step rather than an end in itself.\n\nKovel also advises political parties attempting to \"democratize the state\" that there should be \"dialogue but no compromise\" with established political parties, and that there must be \"a continual association of electoral work with movement work\" to avoid \"being sucked back into the system\". Such parties, he believes, should focus on \"the local rungs of the political system\" first, before running national campaigns that \"challenge the existing system by the elementary means of exposing its broken promises\".\n\nKovel believes in building prefigurations around forms of production based on use values, which will provide a practical vision of a post-capitalist, post-statist system. Such projects include Indymedia (\"a democratic rendering of the use-values of new technologies such as the Internet, and a continual involvement in wider struggle\"), open-source software, Wikipedia, public libraries and many other initiatives, especially those developed within the anti-globalisation movement. These strategies, in Wall's words, \"go beyond the market and the state\" by rejecting the supposed dichotomy between private enterprise and state-owned production, while also rejecting any combination of the two through a mixed economy. He states that these present forms of \"amphibious politics\", which are \"half in the dirty water of the present but seeking to move on to a new, unexplored territory\".\n\nWall suggests that open source software, for example, opens up \"a new form of commons regime in cyberspace\", which he praises as production \"for the pleasure of invention\" that gives \"access to resources without exchange\". He believes that open source has \"bypassed\" both the market and the state, and could provide \"developing countries with free access to vital computer software\". Furthermore, he suggests that an \"open source economy\" means that \"the barrier between user and provider is eroded\", allowing for \"cooperative creativity\". He links this to Marxism and the notion of usufruct, asserting that \"Marx would have been a Firefox user\".\n\nMany eco-socialists have noted that the potential for building such projects is easier for media workers than for those in heavy industry because of the decline in trade unionism and the globalized division of labor which divides workers. However, Kovel believes that examples like the Christian Bruderhof Communities (despite elements of patriarchy that he attacks) show that \"communistic\" organizations can \"survive rather well in a heavily industrialized market\" if they are \"protected\" from the dependence on the market by \"anti-capitalist intentionality\". He further posits that class struggle is \"internationalized in the face of globalization\", as evidenced by a wave of strikes across the Global South in the first half of the year 2000; indeed, he says that \"labor's most cherished values are already immanently ecocentric\".\n\nKovel therefore thinks that these universalizing tendencies must lead to the formation of \"a consciously 'Ecosocialist Party'\" that is neither like a parliamentary or vanguardist party. Instead, Kovel advocates a form of political party \"grounded in communities of resistance\", where delegates from these communities form the core of the party's activists, and these delegates and the \"open and transparent\" assembly they form are subject to recall and regular rotation of members. He holds up the Zapatista Army of National Liberation (EZLN) and the Gaviotas movement as examples of such communities, which \"are produced outside capitalist circuits\" and show that \"there can be no single way valid for all peoples\".\n\nNonetheless, he also firmly believes in connecting these movements, stating that \"ecosocialism will be international or it will be nothing\" and hoping that the Ecosocialist Party can retain the autonomy of local communities while supporting them materially. With an ever-expanding party, Kovel hopes that \"defections\" by capitalists will occur, leading eventually to the armed forces and police who, in joining the revolution, will signify that \"the turning point is reached\".\n\n'The Revolution' as envisaged by eco-socialists involves an immediate socio-political transition. Internationally, eco-socialists believe in a reform of the nature of money and the formation of a 'World People's Trade Organisation' (WPTO) that democratizes and improves world trade through the calculation of an 'Ecological Price' (EP) for goods. This would then be followed by a transformation of socioeconomic conditions towards ecological production, commons land and notions of usufruct (that seek to improve the common property possessed by society) to end private property. Eco-socialists assert that this must be carried out with adherence to non-violence\n\nEco-socialists like Kovel use the term \"Eco-socialist revolution\" to describe the transition to an eco-socialist world society. In the immediate socio-political transition, he believes that four groups will emerge from the revolution – revolutionaries, those \"whose productive activity is directly compatible with ecological production\" (such as nurses, schoolteachers, librarians, independent farmers and many other examples), those \"whose pre-revolutionary practice was given over to capital\" (including the bourgeoisie, advertising executives and more) and \"the workers whose activity added surplus value to capitalist commodities\".\n\nIn terms of political organisation, he advocates an \"interim assembly\" made up of the revolutionaries that can \"devise incentives to make sure that vital functions are maintained\" (such as short-term continuation of \"differential remuneration\" for labor), \"handle the redistribution of social roles and assets\", convene \"in widespread locations\", and send delegates to regional, state, national and international organisations, where every level has an \"executive council\" that is rotated and can be recalled. From there, he asserts that \"productive communities\" will \"form the political as well as economic unit of society\" and \"organize others\" to make a transition to eco-socialist production.\n\nHe adds that people will be allowed to be members of any community they choose with \"associate membership\" of others, such as a doctor having main membership of healthcare communities as a doctor and associate membership of child-rearing communities as a father. Each locality would, in Kovel’s eyes, require one community that administered the areas of jurisdiction through an elected assembly. High-level assemblies would have additional \"supervisory\" roles over localities to monitor the development of ecosystemic integrity, and administer \"society-wide services\" like transport in \"state-like functions\", before the interim assembly can transfer responsibilities to \"the level of the society as a whole through appropriate and democratically responsive committees\".\n\nPart of the eco-socialist transition, in Kovel’s eyes, is the reforming money to retain its use in \"enabling exchanges\" while reducing its functions as \"a commodity in its own right\" and \"repository of value\". He argues for directing money to \"enhancement of use-values\" through a \"subsidization of use-values\" that \"preserves the functioning core of the economy while gaining time and space for rebuilding it\". Internationally, he believes in the immediate cessation of speculation in currencies (\"breaking down the function of money as commodity, and redirecting funds on use-values\"), the cancellation of the debt of the Global South (\"breaking the back of the value function\" of money) and the redirecting the \"vast reservoir of mainly phony value\" to reparations and \"ecologically sound development\". He suggests the end of military aid and other forms of support to \"comprador elites in the South\" will eventually \"lead to their collapse\".\n\nIn terms of trade, Kovel advocates a ‘World People’s Trade Organization’ (WPTO), \"responsible to a confederation of popular bodies\", in which \"the degree of control over trade is... proportional to involvement with production\", meaning that \"farmers would have a special say over food trade\" and so on. He posits that the WPTO should have an elected council that will oversee a reform of prices in favour of an ‘Ecological Price’ (EP) \"determined by the difference between actual use-values and fully realized ones\", thus having low tariffs for forms of ecological production like organic agriculture; he also envisages the high tariffs on non-ecological production providing subsidies to ecological production units.\n\nThe EP would also internalize the costs of current externalities (like pollution) and \"would be set as a function of the distance traded\", reducing the effects of long-distance transport like carbon emissions and increased packaging of goods. He thinks that this will provide a \"standard of transformation\" for non-ecological industries, like the automobile industry, thus spurring changes towards ecological production.\n\nEco-socialists pursue \"ecological production\" that, according to Kovel, goes beyond the socialist vision of the emancipation of labor to \"the realization of use-values and the appropriation of intrinsic value\". He envisions a form of production in which \"the making of a thing becomes part of the thing made\" so that, using a high quality meal as an analogy, \"pleasure would obtain for the cooking of the meal\" - thus activities \"reserved as hobbies under capitalism\" would \"compose the fabric of everyday life\" under eco-socialism.\n\nThis, for Kovel, is achieved if labor is \"freely chosen and developed... with a fully realized use-value\" achieved by a \"negation\" of exchange-value, and he exemplifies the Food Not Bombs project for adopting this. He believes that the notion of \"mutual recognition... for the process as well as the product\" will avoid exploitation and hierarchy. With production allowing humanity to \"live more directly and receptively embedded in nature\", Kovel predicts that \"a reorientation of human need\" will occur that recognises ecological limits and sees technology as \"fully participant in the life of eco-systems\", thus removing it from profit-making exercises.\n\nIn the course on an Eco-socialist revolution, writers like Kovel advocate a \"rapid conversion to ecosocialist production\" for all enterprises, followed by \"restoring ecosystemic integrity to the workplace\" through steps like workers ownership. He then believes that the new enterprises can build \"socially developed plans\" of production for societal needs, such as efficient light-rail transport components. At the same time, Kovel argues for the transformation of essential but, under capitalism, non-productive labour, such as child care, into productive labour, \"thereby giving reproductive labour a status equivalent to productive labour\".\n\nDuring such a transition, he believes that income should be guaranteed and that money will still be used under \"new conditions of value… according to use and to the degree to which ecosystem integrity is developed and advanced by any particular production\". Within this structure, Kovel asserts that markets and will become unnecessary – although \"market phenomena\" in personal exchanges and other small instances might be adopted – and communities and elected assemblies will democratically decide on the allocation of resources. Istvan Meszaros believes that such \"genuinely planned and self-managed (as opposed to bureaucratically planned from above) productive activities\" are essential if eco-socialism is to meet its \"fundamental objectives\".\n\nEco-socialists are quick to assert that their focus on \"production\" does not mean that there will be an increase in production and labor under Eco-socialism. Kovel thinks that the emancipation of labor and the realization of use-value will allow \"the spheres of work and culture to be reintegrated\". He cites the example of Paraguayan Indian communities (organised by Jesuits) in the eighteenth century who made sure that all community members learned musical instruments, and had labourers take musical instruments to the fields and takes turns playing music or harvesting.\n\nMost eco-socialists, including Guha and Martinez Alier, echo subsistence eco-feminists like Vandana Shiva when they argue for the restoration of commons land over private property. They blame ecological degradation on the inclination to short-term, profit-inspired decisions inherent within a market system. For them, privatization of land strips people of their local communal resources in the name of creating markets for neo-liberal globalisation, which benefits a minority. In their view, successful commons systems have been set up around the world throughout history to manage areas cooperatively, based on long-term needs and sustainability instead of short-term profit.\n\nMany eco-socialists focus on a modified version of the notion of ‘Usufruct’ to replace capitalist private property arrangements. As a legal term, Usufruct refers to the legal right to use and derive profit or benefit from property that belongs to another person, as long as the property is not damaged. According to eco-socialists like Kovel, a modern interpretation of the idea is \"where one uses, enjoys – and through that, improves – another’s property\", as its Latin etymology \"condenses the two meanings of use – as in use-value, and enjoyment – and as in the gratification expressed in freely associated labour\". The idea, according to Kovel, has roots in the Code of Hammurabi and was first mentioned in Roman law \"where it applied to ambiguities between masters and slaves with respect to property\"; it also features in Islamic Sharia law, Aztec law and the Napoleonic Code.\n\nCrucially for eco-socialists, Marx mentioned the idea when he stated that human beings are no more than the planet’s \"usufructaries, and, like \"boni patres familias\", they must hand it down to succeeding generations in an improved condition\". Kovel and others have taken on this reading, asserting that, in an eco-socialist society, \"everyone will have... rights of use and ownership over those means of production necessary to express the creativity of human nature\", namely \"a place of one’s own\" to decorate to personal taste, some personal possessions, the body and its attendant sexual and reproductive rights.\n\nHowever, Kovel sees property as \"self-contradictory\" because individuals emerge \"in a tissue of social relations\" and \"nested circles\", with the self at the centre and extended circles where \"issues of sharing arise from early childhood on\". He believes that \"the full self is enhanced more by giving than by taking\" and that eco-socialism is realized when material possessions weigh \"lightly\" upon the self – thus restoration of use-value allows things to be taken \"concretely and sensuously\" but \"lightly, since things are enjoyed for themselves and not as buttresses for a shaky ego\".\n\nThis, for Kovel, reverses what Marxists see as the commodity fetishism and atomization of individuals (through the \"unappeasable craving\" for \"having and excluding others from having\") under capitalism. Under eco-socialism, he therefore believes that enhancement of use-value will lead to differentiated ownership between the individual and the collective, where there are \"distinct limits on the amount of property individuals control\" and no-one can take control of resources that \"would permit the alienation of means of production from another\". He then hopes that the \"hubris\" of the notion of \"ownership of the planet\" will be replaced with usufruct.\n\nMost eco-socialists are involved in peace and antiwar movements, and eco-socialist writers, like Kovel, generally believe that \"violence is the rupturing of ecosystems\" and is therefore \"deeply contrary to ecosocialist values\". Kovel believes that revolutionary movements must prepare for post-revolutionary violence from counter-revolutionary sources by \"prior development of the democratic sphere\" within the movement, because \"to the degree that people are capable of self-government, so will they turn away from violence and retribution\" for \"a self-governed people cannot be pushed around by any alien government\". It is therefore essential, in Kovel's view, that the revolution \"takes place in\" or spreads quickly to the United States, which \"is capital's gendarme and will crush any serious threat\", and that revolutionaries reject the death penalty and retribution against former opponents or counter-revolutionaries.\n\nWhile in many ways the criticisms of eco-socialism combine the traditional criticisms of both socialism and Green politics, there are unique critiques of eco-socialism, which are largely from within the traditional Socialist or Green movements themselves, along with conservative criticisms.\n\nSome socialists are critical of the word 'eco-socialism'. David Reilly, who questions whether his argument is improved by the use of an \"exotic word\", argues instead that the \"real socialism\" is \"also a green or 'eco'\" one that you get to \"by dint of struggle\". Other socialists, like Paul Hampton of the Alliance for Workers' Liberty (a British third camp socialist party), see eco-socialism as \"classless ecology\", wherein eco-socialists have \"given up on the working class\" as the privileged agent of struggle by \"borrowing bits from Marx but missing the locus of Marxist politics\".\n\nWriting in \"Capitalism Nature Socialism\", Doug Boucher, Peter Caplan, David Schwartzman and Jane Zara criticise eco-socialists in general (and Joel Kovel in particular) for a deterministic \"catastrophism\" that overlooks \"the countervailing tendencies of both popular struggles and the efforts of capitalist governments to rationalize the system\" and the \"accomplishments of the labor movement\" that \"demonstrate that despite the interests and desires of capitalists, progress toward social justice is possible\". They argue that an ecological socialism must be \"built on hope, not fear\".\n\nConservatives have criticised the perceived opportunism of left-wing groups who have increased their focus on green issues since the fall of communism. Fred L. Smith Jr., President of the Competitive Enterprise Institute think-tank, exemplifies the conservative critique of left Greens, attacking the \"pantheism\" of the Green movement and conflating \"eco-paganism\" with eco-socialism. Like many conservative critics, Smith uses the term 'eco-socialism' to attack non-socialist environmentalists for advocating restrictions on the market-based solutions to ecological problems. He nevertheless wrongly claims that eco-socialists endorse \"the Malthusian view of the relationship between man and nature\", and states that Al Gore, a former Democratic Party Vice President of the United States and now a climate change campaigner, is an eco-socialist, despite the fact that Gore has never used this term and is not recognised as a such by other followers of either Green politics or socialism.\n\nSome environmentalists and conservationists have criticised eco-socialism from within the Green movement. In a review of Joel Kovel's \"The Enemy of Nature\", David M. Johns criticises eco-socialism for not offering \"suggestions about near term conservation policy\" and focusing exclusively on long-term societal transformation. Johns believes that species extinction \"started much earlier\" than capitalism and suggests that eco-socialism neglects the fact that an ecological society will need to transcend the destructiveness found in \"all large-scale societies\". the very tendency that Kovel himself attacks among capitalists and traditional leftists who attempt to reduce nature to \"linear\" human models. Johns questions whether non-hierarchical social systems can provide for billions of people, and criticises eco-socialists for neglecting issues of population pressure. Furthermore, Johns describes Kovel's argument that human hierarchy is founded on raiding to steal women as \"archaic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40167764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40167764", "title": "Edvard Edvardsen", "text": "Edvard Edvardsen\n\nEdvard Edvardsen (16 November 1630 – March 1695) was a Norwegian historian and educator. He was born in Bergen. His descriptions of the city of Bergen have been basis for several later historical works. He was assigned at the Bergen Cathedral School, and among his students were the later priest and poet Petter Dass and playwright Ludvig Holberg.\n"}
{"id": "7516318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7516318", "title": "Fyodor Uspensky", "text": "Fyodor Uspensky\n\nFyodor Ivanovich Uspensky or Uspenskij (; ) was the preeminent Russian Byzantinist in the first third of the 20th century. His works are considered to be among the finest illustrations of the flowering of Byzantine studies in the Russian Empire.\n\nUspensky was born near Galich in 1845. He was educated at the University of St. Petersburg, with his first thesis (1872) dedicated to Nicetas Choniates. For two decades (1874-1894) he read lectures at the Novorossiysky University in Odessa. This position allowed him to spend considerable time abroad.\n\nUspensky's doctoral thesis (1879) dealt with the foundation of the Second Bulgarian Empire. Although he specialized in the Byzantine-Bulgarian relations and investigated the Slavic influence on the Byzantine economy, Uspensky also researched and wrote extensively on the Crusades.\n\nIn 1894 Uspensky, who shared Slavophile ideals, decided to move to Constantinople to study and protect the surviving monuments of Byzantine antiquity, which had been neglected by the Ottoman authorities for centuries. He founded the Russian Archaeological Institute (headquartered at Studion) and presided over its pioneering archaeological research in Constantinople, Asia Minor, Macedonia and Bulgaria. In 1900, he was elected into the Russian Academy of Sciences. With the outbreak of World War I, Uspensky was forced to abandon his work and flee Turkey..\n\nBack in Petrograd, the 70-year-old professor was invited to edit the organ of Byzantine studies, \"Vizantiyskiy Vremennik\". After the October Revolution, he delivered lectures at the Leningrad University (1922–27) and, enduring criticism of the Bolshevik authorities, prepared for publication the results of a lifelong study, a monumental three-volume account of the history of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nUspensky died in Leningrad in 1928. The posthumous publication of his magnum opus, based on numerous unpublished sources and unprecedented in scope, demonstrated the wide range of his scholarship. His book about the Trapezuntine Empire also appeared posthumously. The Taktikon Uspensky is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1697326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697326", "title": "Hans Staden", "text": "Hans Staden\n\nHans Staden (c. 1525 – c. 1576) was a German soldier and explorer who voyaged to South America in the middle of the sixteenth century, where he was captured by the Tupinambá people of Brazil. He managed to survive and return safe to Europe. In his widely read account describing his travel and captivity, he claimed that the native people that held him captive practiced cannibalism.\n\nStaden was born in Homberg in the Landgraviate of Hesse. He had received a good education and was in moderate circumstances when desire for travel led him to enlist in 1547 on a ship that was bound for Brazil. He returned from this first trip on 8 October 1548, and, going to Seville, enlisted for a second trip as a volunteer in an expedition for Río de la Plata which sailed in March 1549. On reaching the mouth of the river, two ships sank in a storm. After vainly trying to build a barque, part of the shipwrecked crew set out overland for Asunción. The rest of the crew, including Staden (a knowledgeable gunman), sailed upon the third vessel for the island of São Vicente, but were also wrecked. Staden, with a few survivors, reached the continent in 1552, where he was hired by the Portuguese thanks to his knowledge of the Canon.\n\nA few weeks later, while engaged in a hunting and mercenary expedition to steal riches, Staden was captured by a party belonging to the Tupinambá people of Brazil, an enemy group of the Tupinikin people and their Portuguese allies. As Staden was part of a Portuguese crew, he was perceived of as an enemy of the Tupinamba and they carried him to their village (the predecessor of today's Ubatuba) where he claimed he was to be devoured at the next festivity. However, Staden allegedly won the favor of the Tupinamba Chief Cunhambebe by translating between the Tupinamba and European traders as well as predicting a Tupinikin attack on the tribe, thus his life was spared. Furthermore, when Staden later claimed to have cured the tribal king and his household from illness through the power of prayer and Christianity, the Tupinamba embraced him and called him \"Scheraeire\", meaning \"Son, do not let me die\". The Portuguese tried several times to negotiate for Staden's ransom, but the Indians declined all overtures. At last he made his escape on a French ship, and on 22 February 1555, arrived at Honfleur, in Normandy, and from there went immediately to his native city.\n\nAfter his return to Europe, the support of Dr. Johann Dryander in Marburg enabled Staden to publish an account of his captivity, entitled \"Warhaftige Historia und beschreibung eyner Landtschafft der Wilden Nacketen, Grimmigen Menschfresser-Leuthen in der Newenwelt America gelegen\" (\"True Story and Description of a Country of Wild, Naked, Grim, Man-eating People in the New World, America\") (1557); the book was printed by Andreas Kolbe.\n\nThe \"Warhaftige Historia\" provided detailed descriptions of Tupinambá life and customs, illustrated by woodcuts. The book became an international bestseller and was translated into Latin and many other European languages, reaching a total of 76 editions. Theodor de Bry produced illustrative engravings of Staden's story for his book \"Grand Voyages to America\" (1593), volume 3.\n\nThough little is known about Staden outside of his written travel accounts, his writings proved that one way to find favor in a hostile setting was to establish oneself as a mediator between groups in a position known as a go-between. Go-betweens could mediate business or trade transactions between indigenous and European groups or translate language and culture. In captivity, Staden used his extensive knowledge of Tupinambá culture, religious veneration, and allegiance with the French to take on the role of a transactional go-between. As he had learned about South American indigenous culture and politics on a previous expedition, Staden first aimed to manipulate the Tupinambá into granting him his freedom. He first attempted to convince the Tupinambá that he was truly a Frenchman and an ally; when a French trader visited the group, however, and denied Staden's story, this method failed and Staden was forced to think of new ways to survive. He began to view himself in more nationalistic terms as a German, who could not rely on the Portuguese and French as Christian Europeans to save him. Staden quickly changed course and became an important transactional go-between who shared information of an anticipated attack by the Tupinambá's enemies, the Tupinikin. When the attack happened, the Tupinambá's trust in Staden grew. Staden also became a religious go-between. Staden attempted to deceive the Tupinambá tribe, convincing them that he had the ability to foresee future events and connect them with his Christian God's emotions. Staden repeatedly linked negative or dangerous circumstances, such as death and illness, with God's anger, telling the Tupinambá that God had been angered by their threats to kill and eat him. Furthermore, when another prisoner died, an enemy (of Germans) because he was Portuguese, who had supported the idea of killing Staden, Staden used this as an example of God's anger towards those who lie about his nationality. Thus, once again, Staden falsely tried to claim he was a Frenchman in attempt to persuade the Tupinambá to free him. As the Tupinambá began to link their good fortunes with Staden's happiness, which apparently appeased God, and their misfortune with hostility to Staden, which apparently angered God, they began to trust his stories and value him within the tribe. As a captive of the Tupinambá, Staden relied heavily on his position as a go-between to gain favor and good will with them. Through excelling in this role he became an important asset to the group and despite constant threats of death, his life was spared. In 1555, Staden was finally able to make his escape and return to Europe.\n\nThe aspect of the book that received the most attention, from the time of publication up to the present, was cannibalism. Staden claimed that the Tupinambá were cannibals, gave vivid eyewitness accounts of the killing, preparing and eating of war captives. According to one anecdote, the Indians at one point gave him a delicious soup; after finishing his dinner, he found in the bottom of the cauldron some small skulls, which he later found out to be those of the boys in his choir.\n\nSome scholars, such as anthropologist William Arens, have challenged the book's reliability, arguing that Staden invented its sensational accounts of cannibalism. Other scholars defend the book as an important and reliable ethnohistorical source on Brazil's indigenous population. Others note the significance of Staden in the study of Atlantic history.\n\nStaden died, in either Wolfhagen or Korbach, probably in 1579. The exact date of his death is unknown.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "531031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531031", "title": "Herri Batasuna", "text": "Herri Batasuna\n\nHerri Batasuna (; ; HB) was a far-left Basque nationalist coalition in Spain. It was founded in 1978 and defined itself as abertzale, left-wing, socialist, and supported the independence of the Greater Basque Country. It was refounded as Batasuna in 2001 and subsequently outlawed by the Spanish Supreme Court for being considered the political wing of the terrorist Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (ETA).\n\nThe party was founded in April 1978 as Herri Batasuna, a coalition of leftist nationalist political groups initially brought together to advocate for \"No\" in the referendum to be held that year on the Spanish constitution. \n\nIts constituent parties had been called together by senior Basque nationalist Telesforo de Monzón in a 1978 meeting called \"The table of Alsasua\". Herri Batasuna's founding convention was held in Lekeitio, home of Santiago Brouard, who was then the leader of HASI (Herriko Alderdi Sozialista Iraultzailea or Revolutionary Socialist People's Party). The party won 150,000 votes in the Basque Country (15%) and 22,000 additional votes in Navarre (9%) in its first Spanish general election in March 1979. Thus, they won three seats in the Spanish Parliament, which they did not occupy. The same happened in 1980 in the first elections to the Basque Parliament, in which HB stood as a second political force, with 151,636 votes (16.55%), winning 11 seats. Its absence allowed a BNP-only Basque government led by Carlos Garaikoetxea. On 20 November 1984, Brouard was assassinated by two members of the GAL. The killing is perhaps the only one performed by the GAL death squad within Spain itself.\n\nAnother well-known Herri Batasuna leader, Josu Muguruza, was also killed by members of the neo-fascist Bases Autónomas in 1989, while he was in a hotel in Madrid. He was a congressman in the Spanish Parliament when he was assassinated.\n\nSince its foundation, Herri Batasuna ran for every election in the Basque Country and in Navarre, as well as in Spanish general elections (from 1979 to 1996) and the European elections of 1987, 1989 and 1994. In the 2000 Spanish general election, it supported abstention. In the elections held from 1998 to 2001 it was part of the coalition Euskal Herritarrok.\n\nHerri Batasuna refused to participate in many of the institutions it won seats in, with the exception of local town halls.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "54296633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54296633", "title": "Hiéron du Val d'Or", "text": "Hiéron du Val d'Or\n\nThe Hiéron du Val d'Or (English: \"Sanctuary of the Golden Valley\") was a Catholic esoteric secret society in France, which existed from 1873 until 1926. It was founded by a Jesuit Victor Drevon and the half-Basque, half-Russian baron Alexis de Sarachaga. It was allied to concepts of royalism and was culturally conservative; it sought to erect a Catholic hermetic freemasonry, contrary to the “secular” freemasonry of the anti-clerical Grand Orient de France and was particularly devoted to Christ the King.\n\nThe group was founded in 1873 near the shrine at Paray-le-Monial, historical Burgundy, where St. Marguerite-Marie Alacoque had visions of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, establishing the popular devotion. The area was popular in France as a pilgrimage destination, due to these connections. The \"Hiéron\" developed a museum and research center in 1877, which still exists to this day as the . The building itself incorporated geometrical symbolism similar to that used within other Hermetic Christian settings. The Hiéron attempted to demonstrate the origins of Christianity in the mystical Atlantis, worked to prepare the way for the social political reign of Christ the King in the year 2000 and devoted themselves to the name \"aor-agi\" (\"light-fire\").\n\nFollowing the death of de Sarachaga in 1918, Georges Gabriel de Noaillat and his wife Marthe Devuns de Noaillat stayed at Paray and continued on the work of the Hiéron. They sought to downplay some of the more unorthodox aspects of the Hiéron's mysticism and comply closer to Catholic orthodoxy. In particular, they pushed hard for the recognition of the Feast of Christ the King, which in 1925 was instituted by Pope Pius XI with the encyclical \"Quas primas\". After the death of the de Noaillats and their collaborator Jeanne Lépine-Authelain in 1926, the \"Hiéron\" essentially came to an end. However, the building itself still stands and remains to this day as a museum displaying Catholic sacred art.\n\nIn 1921, the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate priest Fr. Félix Anizan founded the \"Regnabit: The Universal Review of the Sacred Heart\" journal. This publication featured a wider array of Paray-associated Catholic writers than just Hiéron and was approved by the Catholic hierarchy in France. However, Georges Gabriel de Noaillat was among the first contributors to the journal. Another contributor was the historian who drew in the traditionalist philosopher René Guénon to contribute. Originally a Martinist, Guénon eventually moved towards Sufism of Islam and was a key figure in the Traditionalist School. One of the collaborators of the de Naoillats; Jeanne Lépine-Authelain; corresponded with the esotericist who displayed an interest in the \"Hiéron\"'s claims about Atlantis. Le Cour inherited de Sarachaga's gold ring and some see him as a successor, \"in spirit\", at least. Le Cour would go on to become a precursor to the New Age movement, with his 1937 work \"The Age of Aquarius.\"\n\nThe Hiéron du Val d'Or held significance of certain images or dates such as the octopus which stood for the inconsistency of man while The Sacred Heart stands for an abyss of constancy and fidelity. Each of these symbols were identified in the Tuscan Secret Records of the Plantier (doc 6) titled \"The Hieron of Val d'Or\" dated February 5 or 6 and June 24. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29479362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29479362", "title": "Holly Oak gorget", "text": "Holly Oak gorget\n\nThe Holly Oak Gorget or Holly Oak Pendant is an artifact made from a section of shell that is engraved with the image of an extinct woolly mammoth reportedly found in Holly Oak, Delaware and initially identified as an example of Paleoindian art. Purported to have been a gorget carved during the Pleistocene, this object is now widely believed to be an archaeological forgery.\n\nThe Holly Oak Gorget was claimed to have been found in 1864 near the railroad station in Holly Oak. The object was reportedly found by Hilborne T. Cresson in 1864, but was not brought to the attention of the scientific community until December 1889 or the public until February 1890. The supposed discovery of the gorget by Cresson coincides directly with the discovery of another depiction of a woolly mammoth, in France; while excavating the La Madeleine rock shelter in 1864 Édouard Lartet discovered a clear depiction of a woolly mammoth on a fragment of mammoth tusk, providing evidence that humans and mammoths might once have co-existed in Europe.\n\nOnce the Holly Oak gorget had been introduced to the scientific community and the public at large, the shell was put aside and rarely mentioned in the archaeological literature of the time. It was displayed in the Peabody Museum, the Smithsonian Institution and the International Expositions of Madrid and Chicago before fading from the public eye, only to be resurrected in the 1970s when its authenticity was once again subject to debate.\n\nThe object is a single piece of whelk shell that has an engraving of a mammoth on one surface while the opposite side is undecorated. The shell has two small perforations along one side where a cord would have been strung so as to allow the gorget to be worn around the neck. The depiction of the mammoth is oriented horizontally, along the shell, rather than vertically as is most common. This means that when worn, the mammoth is depicted with the head facing down. It now bears some damage where the object was crushed by a microscope while undergoing tests at the Smithsonian Institution in the late 20th century.\n\nIn his original report, Cresson states that the pendant was discovered in a hole being dug in the peat along the Delaware River and across from the Holly Oak station of the railroad, from which the site gets its name. In another account, Cresson says that the shell was found amongst peat that was already spread across a farmers field, making it impossible to know which layer of the strata it came from, and thus determine its age.\n\nIn 1890, when the entire Holly Oak assemblage was presented to the Peabody Museum it included 275 additional artifacts. This assemblage comprised stone tools, animal bones, wood which showed evidence of having been chopped by a stone axe, a mastodon tooth, Archaic projectile points and more objects which \"make little sense archaeologically\". Many of the materials appear to be from the Archaic Period; however, other materials, such as the bone implements and the gorget itself, suggest an older, possible Paleoindian origin.\n\nScientists also question the 25-year delay in bringing the find forward, for which Cresson did not have a convincing explanation. He claims that he did not understand the significance of the find at the time, although, he would undoubtedly have been aware of the artifact's significance due to the prominence of the La Madeleine carving discovered in France. Cresson also discusses a family dispute over the announcement of the discovery, as they were unwilling to risk a controversy such as had been seen with the faked mastodon pipes in the 1880s.\n\nThe shell that the gorget comprises is of a type that is mostly restricted to the Ohio Valley in the late Prehistoric period. This style of gorget is referred to as Fort Ancient, and is not common near Delaware. Here, Cresson's reputation does not lend him any aid. \"The obvious inference to be drawn from this — that the shell for the engraving had been procured from an archaeological site or collection — was fortified by the discovery that Cresson had a record of theft from archaeological sites\". Cresson was fired from the World's Columbian Exposition Survey in December 1891 for stealing some of the specimens from the Hopewell Site.\n\nIn 1986, a 0.3 gram shell sample was submitted for radiocarbon dating. The tests gave an age of 1530 ± 110 B.P. which, in calibrated years, dates the pendant to A.D. 885. This date is well after the time when mammoths had become extinct in North America. The gorget was also claimed to have been found in a peat bog; taking into account the shell's basic pH, there is very little chance that the shell could have survived for 10,000 years or more in said environment.\n\nIn 1892, D.G. Brinton expressed the need to be suspicious of objects purported to have been made by aboriginal artists, listing the gorget and Lenape Stone as examples of such, citing the constant recurrence of frauds, and in 1893, after having examined the gorget and Lenape Stone, deemed both to have been recently made.\n\nSeveral people who have viewed the Holly Oak gorget have commented on how similar the drawing is to the La Madeleine tusk. Frederick Ward Putnam of the Peabody Museum, Thomas Wilson of the United States National Museum, Daniel Brinton of the University of Pennsylvania, and even Cresson himself, have all discussed the similarities present between the two objects. At the time the shell became public, there were less than a half-dozen depictions of a mammoth available, and of those the La Madeleine drawing is by far the clearest depiction. At the time of the Holly Oak pendant, as there were so few ways known of drawing a mammoth, the marked similarities between the two were not thought of as being unduly suspicious.\n\nDavid Meltzer lists several parallels between the two. They both have the same orientation and posture, and while most mammoths are shown with bulbous feet, the feet of both the Holly Oak and La Madeleine mammoths end abruptly; in La Madeleine's case, this was because part of the carving is missing, but there is room on the Holly Oak gorget where the ends of the feet could have been drawn. Furthermore, the contour of the back of the animal was drawn several times on the La Madeleine tusk, but only once on the Holly Oak gorget - the latter resembles more a modern elephant than a mammoth, which is consistent only with Charles Rau's drawing of the La Madeleine tusk, which was one of the few drawings available to the public. The trunk and tusks also more resemble those of a modern elephant than those of a mammoth, as if the artist misinterpreted the drawing.\n\nKraft and Thomas, who believe that it is possible that the gorget may be authentic, do list this explanation among the possible theories for the artifact's existence. There is, in general, a consensus that the gorget was faked using the drawing by Rau as being the most logical explanation for the manufacture of the object.\n\n"}
{"id": "29548522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29548522", "title": "Hubert Cailleau", "text": "Hubert Cailleau\n\nHubert Cailleau (c. 1526–1590), was a French historical and miniature painter and stage designer, who flourished at Valenciennes. There are some clever designs made by him, that now reside in the National Library at Paris, which were done for a mystery of the Passion acted at Valenciennes in 1547. He is famous for the illustrations of these sets, especially the frontispiece to \"The Passion and Resurrection of the Savior\" (1577), which are the most detailed surviving examples of such staging.\n\n"}
{"id": "738016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=738016", "title": "Jerome Chen", "text": "Jerome Chen\n\nJerome Chen () (b. October 2, 1919 in Chengdu, Sichuan, China) is a noted Chinese historian. He was a Chinese history professor at the York University in Toronto, Ontario, Canada from 1971 to 1987. Jerome Ch'en was the director of the University of Toronto/York University Joint Centre of Asia Pacific Studies (JCAPS) from 1983 to 1985.\n\nHe was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada in 1981. In 1984, he was named Distinguished Research Professor at York.\n\nJerome Ch'en was educated at Tianjin Nankai University, National Southwestern Associated University (Xi'nan Lian'da) in Kunming during the Anti-Japanese War, and at the London School of Economics, which he attended funded by a Boxer Indemnity Scholarship. He studied under Friedrich Hayek at LSE. In the 1950s, he worked for the Chinese Service of the BBC. Before emigrating to Canada he taught history at the University of Leeds for a number of years.\n\nPrincipal works include:\nHe also edited:\nSome of his works have been translated into Chinese or Japanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "3529242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3529242", "title": "Joaquín Acosta", "text": "Joaquín Acosta\n\nTomás Joaquín de Acosta y Pérez de Guzmán was a Colombian explorer, historian, chorographer, and geologist.\n\nA native of Colombia in South America, he served in the Colombian army and in 1834 attempted a scientific survey of the territory between Socorro and the Magdalena River. Seven years later he explored western Colombia from Antioquia to Anserma studying its topography, its natural history and the traces of its aboriginal inhabitants.\n\nIn 1845 he went to Spain to examine such documentary material concerning Colombia and its colonial history as was then accessible, and three years later he published his \"Compendio\", a work on the discovery and colonization of New Granada (Colombia). The map accompanying this work, now out of date, was very fair for the time, and the work itself is still valuable for its abundant bibliographic references and biographic notes. What he says in it of the writings of Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada the conqueror of New Granada, is very incomplete and in many ways erroneous, but his biographies remain a guide to the student of Spanish-American history. One year after the \"Compendio\", another work called \"Semenario\" appeared at Paris, embodying the botanical papers of Francisco José de Caldas.\n\nHe was the son of Josef Acosta and Soledad Pérez de Guzman and married Caroline Kemble Rowe. His daughter Soledad Acosta de Samper, born May 5, 1833, became a historian and writer and married José María Samper, Colombian lawyer, writer and politician.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18552826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18552826", "title": "John of Epiphania", "text": "John of Epiphania\n\nJohn of Epiphania () was a late sixth century Byzantine historian. \n\nJohn was born in Epiphania (modern Hama, Syria). He was a Christian and served as a legal counselor to the Patriarch of Antioch, Gregory (ca. 590). John was also a cousin of the church historian Evagrius Scholasticus.\n\nJohn obviously received good training. In his role as legal adviser, he was a witness to the Persian king, Khosrau Parvez's retreat into Roman territory, and may have even met the king. Khosrau was restored to the Persian throne by the Roman emperor Maurice. John may have also visited Persia (cf. Fragment 1)\n\nJohn wrote a history of the Byzantine-Persian wars; from the campaigns of Khosrau I against Justin II, to the flight of his grandson Khosrau II to the Byzantines. The work is lost, but a fragment is preserved. The history was used by Evagrius and Theophylact Simocatta. As with many other Byzantine works, it is written in an archaic form of Greek, meant to imitate the classical style (e.g. Thucidydes).\n\n"}
{"id": "2353249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2353249", "title": "Louis Dutens", "text": "Louis Dutens\n\nLouis Dutens (15 January 173023 May 1812) was a French writer born in Tours, of Protestant parents, who lived most of his life in Britain or in British service on the continent.\nHe went to London, where his uncle was a jeweller, and there obtained a situation as tutor in a private family. In this position he learnt mathematics, Greek, Italian, Spanish and several oriental languages. He took orders, and was appointed chaplain and secretary to the English minister at the court of Turin in October 1758. From 1760 to 1762, he was chargé d'affaires at Turin. Lord Bute, before retiring from office in 1763, procured him a pension. He again went to Turin as chargé d'affaires; and during this second mission he collected and published an edition of the works of Leibniz (\"Gothofridi Guillemi Leibnitii Opera Omnia\", Geneva, 6 vols., 1768) and wrote his \"Recherches sur l'origine des découvertes attribuées aux modernes\" (1766).\n\nOn his return to England the Duke of Northumberland procured him the living of Elsdon, in Northumberland, and made Dutens overseer and senior travel companion – in effect, tutor – to his younger son during his Grand Tour. At Rome in 1769, Dutens published \"Le tocsin\" (later published in Paris as \"Appel au bon sens\"), a work of Christian apologetics. He was active in civic life beyond the parish and preached the annual sermon to the Charity School of St Nicholas, Newcastle, in 1768.\n\nIn 1775, he became a member of the French Academy of Inscriptions and a fellow of the Royal Society. Dutens was for a third time chargé d'affaires at Turin. He was in Paris in 1783, and returned to London the following year. Between 1775 and 1805, he wrote his \"Memoirs of a Traveler, Now in Retirement\", which contains a wide-ranging miscellany of Dutens' life \"interspersed with historical, literary, and political anecdotes relative to the principal personages of the present age\". He died in London in 1812.\n\n"}
{"id": "23438410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23438410", "title": "Malamocco", "text": "Malamocco\n\nMalamocco () was the first, and for a long time, the only settlement on the Lido of Venice barrier island. It was the location of the original home of the Doge of Venice. Located just south of the island's center, it is part of the Lido-Pellestrina borough of the Comune of Venice. It is sometimes mis-identified as \"Metamaucum\", though the latter town was located on a nearby island, and was submerged by rising sea levels.\n\nMalamocco also refers to one of the three narrow channels in the barrier island chain that separates the Venetian Lagoon with the Adriatic Sea, the other two being the Lido and Chioggia channels. The Malamocco Channel, with a depth of 14 meters, is dedicated to cargo ships making use of the Marghera commercial/industrial port facilitites of the Port of Venice.\n\nMalamocco has a parish church now devoted to Santa Maria Assunta, but which was originally dedicated to Madonna della Marina, \"Our Lady of the Sea\". The church dates from the 12th century and is built in Veneto-Byzantine style. It underwent modifications in 1339 and 1557. The belltower has a peal of four bells in the chord of F major, cast in 1803.\nIt can be found in Piazza Maggiore in the picturesque district of Malamocco on Lido. In Malamocco there is also the ponte (bridge) Borgo, the Palazzo Pretorio and a monument in hexagonal form with Pisani family’s coat of arms. The Pisani governed Malamocco around the middle of 1537.\n\nThe interior of the church is based on one nave and with that dates in part to the 12th century, with 14th and 15th century additions. The 15th-century \"Palazzo del Podestà\" is in Gothic style.\n\nTheodatus, the second doge of Venice (742-755), moved the ducal seat from Eraclea to Malamocco, where it remained until 812, when it was moved to the Rialto after the exile of doge Obelerius, who returned with the support of Malamocco in 832, but was defeated and the district burnt. During the period of the Republic, Malamocco was one of nine districts of the \"Dogado\". It was ruled by a \"podestà\" elected for a sixteen-month term.\n"}
{"id": "23007188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23007188", "title": "Mohammad-Amin Riahi", "text": "Mohammad-Amin Riahi\n\nMohammad-Amin Riahi (; 1 June 1923, Khoy – 15 May 2009, Tehran) was a prominent Iranian literary scholar of Persian literature, a historian, writer and statesman. Apart from being one of the authors of Dehkhoda Dictionary and Encyclopædia Iranica, he was the author and editor of several well-known scholarly books. Mohammad-Amin Riahi received his PHD on Persian literature from Tehran University\nunder the supervision of Badiozzaman Forouzanfar. Riahi is best known for his scholarly works on Shahnameh and Ferdowsi, Hafiz, and the ancient iranian languages (especially Azari Language). He has produced critical editions of some of the major classical Persian texts such as \"Mersad-al-ebad\" and \"Nozhat-al-majalis\". During a course of 60 years he published numerous scholarly articles, a selection of which are gathered in a volume titled \"Forty essays on language, literature and history of Iran\".\n\nAmong numerous cultural positions he held during his career, Riahi was a professor of Tehran University, the founding member and later president of the Shahnameh Foundation (1971–1979), vice-chairman of the Iranian Academy of Literature and Arts, and Iranian Minister of Education (1979).\n\n\"Critical Editions of old Persian books:\"\n\n\"Literary and Historical research books:\"\n\n\"Some of Encyclopedic Articles:\"\n"}
{"id": "4540597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4540597", "title": "Mount Nisir", "text": "Mount Nisir\n\nMount Nisir (also spelled Mount Niṣir, and also called Mount Nimush), mentioned in the ancient Mesopotamian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", is supposedly the mountain known today as Pir Omar Gudrun (elevation 9000 ft. (approx. 2743 m)), near the city Sulaymaniyah in Iraqi Kurdistan. The name may mean \"Mount of Salvation\".\n\nAccording to the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", Mt. Nisir is the resting place of the ship built by Utnapishtim. Despite the precise descriptions in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", those curious have never attempted to search for the remains of the giant ship on Mt. Nisir.\n\nAn alternative translation of \"Mount Nisir\" in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" XI,141a is based on the ambiguous words: \"KUR-ú \"ni-sir\" held tight the boat.\" The Sumerian word KUR can mean land or country or hill, but not mountain. In Akkadian, KUR with the phonetic complement -ú is read as \"shadû\" which can mean hill or mountain. The second KUR is a determinative indicating that \"nisir\" is the name of a hill or land or country (or in Akkadian a mountain). But Thompson read this determinative as \"matu\", an Akkadian word for country. The country Nisir may have got its name from \"nisirtu\" which means a locality that is hidden, inaccessible, or secluded. Hence the boat may have grounded on an inaccessible hill.\n"}
{"id": "55880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55880", "title": "Naples", "text": "Naples\n\nNaples (; ; ; ; ) is the regional capital of Campania and the third-largest municipality in Italy after Rome and Milan. In 2017, around 967,069 people lived within the city's administrative limits while its province-level municipality has a population of 3,115,320 residents. Its continuously built-up metropolitan area (that stretches beyond the boundaries of the Metropolitan City of Naples) is the second or third largest metropolitan area in Italy.\n\nFirst settled by Greeks in the second millennium BC, Naples is one of the oldest continuously inhabited urban areas in the world. In the ninth century BC, a colony known as Parthenope or Παρθενόπη was established on the Island of Megaride, later refounded as Neápolis in the sixth century BC. The city was an important part of Magna Graecia, played a major role in the merging of Greek and Roman society and a significant cultural centre under the Romans. It served as the capital of the Duchy of Naples (661–1139), then of the Kingdom of Naples (1282–1816) and finally of the Two Sicilies until the unification of Italy in 1861.\n\nBetween 1925 and 1936, Naples was expanded and upgraded by Benito Mussolini's government but subsequently sustained severe damage from Allied bombing during World War II, which led to extensive post-1945 reconstruction work. Naples has experienced significant economic growth in recent decades, helped by the construction of the Centro Direzionale business district and an advanced transportation network, which includes the Alta Velocità high-speed rail link to Rome and Salerno and an expanded subway network. Naples is the third-largest urban economy in Italy, after Milan and Rome. The Port of Naples is one of the most important in Europe and home of the Allied Joint Force Command Naples, the NATO body that oversees North Africa, the Sahel and Middle East.\n\nNaples' historic city centre is the largest in Europe and a UNESCO World Heritage Site, with a wide range of culturally and historically significant sites nearby, including the Palace of Caserta and the Roman ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum. Naples is also known for its natural beauties such as Posillipo, Phlegraean Fields, Nisida, and Vesuvius.\n\nNeapolitan cuisine is synonymous with pizza – which originated in the city – but it also includes many lesser-known dishes; Naples has the greatest number of accredited stars from the Michelin Guide of any Italian city.\n\nThe best-known sports team in Naples is the Serie A club S.S.C. Napoli, two-time Italian champions who play at the San Paolo Stadium in the southwest of the city.\n\nNaples has been inhabited since the Neolithic period. The earliest Greek settlements were established in the Naples area in the second millennium BC. Sailors from the Greek island of Rhodes established a small commercial port called Parthenope (, meaning \"Pure Eyes\", a Siren in Greek mythology) on the island of Megaride in the ninth century BC. By the eighth century BC, the settlement had expanded to include Monte Echia. In the sixth century BC the new urban zone of Neápolis () was founded on the plain, eventually becoming one of the foremost cities of Magna Graecia.\n\nThe city grew rapidly due to the influence of the powerful Greek city-state of Syracuse, and became an ally of the Roman Republic against Carthage. During the Samnite Wars, the city, now a bustling centre of trade, was captured by the Samnites; however, the Romans soon captured the city from them and made it a Roman colony. During the Punic Wars, the strong walls surrounding Neápolis repelled the invading forces of the Carthaginian general Hannibal.\n\nNaples was greatly respected by the Romans as a paragon of Hellenistic culture. During the Roman era, the people of Naples maintained their Greek language and customs, while the city was expanded with elegant Roman villas, aqueducts, and public baths. Landmarks such as the Temple of Dioscures were built, and many emperors chose to holiday in the city, including Claudius and Tiberius. Virgil, the author of Rome's national epic, the \"Aeneid\", received part of his education in the city, and later resided in its environs.\n\nIt was during this period that Christianity first arrived in Naples; the apostles Peter and Paul are said to have preached in the city. Januarius, who would become Naples' patron saint, was martyred there in the fourth century AD.\nThe last emperor of the Western Roman Empire, Romulus Augustulus, was exiled to Naples by the Germanic king Odoacer in the fifth century AD.\n\nFollowing the decline of the Western Roman Empire, Naples was captured by the Ostrogoths, a Germanic people, and incorporated into the Ostrogothic Kingdom. However, Belisarius of the Byzantine Empire recaptured Naples in 536, after entering the city via an aqueduct.\n\nIn 543, during the Gothic Wars, Totila briefly took the city for the Ostrogoths, but the Byzantines seized control of the area following the Battle of Mons Lactarius on the slopes of Vesuvius. Naples was expected to keep in contact with the Exarchate of Ravenna, which was the centre of Byzantine power on the Italian Peninsula.\n\nAfter the exarchate fell, a Duchy of Naples was created. Although Naples' Greco-Roman culture endured, it eventually switched allegiance from Constantinople to Rome under Duke Stephen II, putting it under papal suzerainty by 763.\n\nThe years between 818 and 832 were tumultuous in regard to Naples' relations with the Byzantine Emperor, with numerous local pretenders feuding for possession of the ducal throne. Theoctistus was appointed without imperial approval; his appointment was later revoked and Theodore II took his place. However, the disgruntled general populace chased him from the city, and instead elected Stephen III, a man who minted coins with his own initials, rather than those of the Byzantine Emperor. Naples gained complete independence by the early ninth century. During the 850s, the city was sacked by Saracen raiders.\n\nThe duchy was under the direct control of the Lombards for a brief period, after the capture by Pandulf IV of the Principality of Capua, a long-term rival of Naples; however, this regime lasted only three years before the Greco-Roman-influenced dukes were reinstated. By the 11th century, Naples had begun to employ Norman mercenaries to battle their rivals; Duke Sergius IV hired Rainulf Drengot to wage war on Capua for him.\n\nBy 1137, the Normans had attained great influence in Italy, controlling previously independent principalities and duchies such as Capua, Benevento, Salerno, Amalfi, Sorrento and Gaeta; it was in this year that Naples, the last independent duchy in the southern part of the peninsula, came under Norman control. The last ruling duke of the duchy, Sergius VII, was forced to surrender to Roger II, who had proclaimed himself King of Sicily seven years earlier. Naples thus joined the Kingdom of Sicily, with Palermo as the capital.\n\nAfter a period of Norman rule, the Kingdom of Sicily went to the Hohenstaufens, a German royal house. The University of Naples, the first university in Europe dedicated to training secular administrators, was founded by Frederick II, making Naples the intellectual centre of the kingdom. Conflict between the Hohenstaufens and the Papacy led in 1266 to Pope Innocent IV crowning the Angevin duke Charles I King of Sicily: Charles officially moved the capital from Palermo to Naples, where he resided at the Castel Nuovo. Having a great interest in architecture, Charles I imported French architects and workmen and was personally involved in several building projects in the city. Many examples of Gothic architecture sprang up around Naples, including the Naples Cathedral, which remains the city's main church.\n\nIn 1282, after the Sicilian Vespers, the Kingdom of Sicily was divided into two. The Angevin Kingdom of Naples included the southern part of the Italian peninsula, while the island of Sicily became the Aragonese Kingdom of Sicily. Wars between the competing dynasties continued until the Peace of Caltabellotta in 1302, which saw Frederick III recognised as king of Sicily, while Charles II was recognised as king of Naples by Pope Boniface VIII. Despite the split, Naples grew in importance, attracting Pisan and Genoese merchants, Tuscan bankers, and some of the most prominent Renaissance artists of the time, such as Boccaccio, Petrarch and Giotto. During the 14th century, the Hungarian Angevin king Louis the Great captured the city several times. In 1442, Alfonso I conquered Naples after his victory against the last Angevin king, René, and Naples was unified with Sicily again for a brief period.\n\nSicily and Naples were separated in 1458, but remained dependencies of Aragon under Ferdinand I. The new dynasty enhanced Naples' commercial standing by establishing relations with the Iberian Peninsula. Naples also became a centre of the Renaissance, with artists such as Laurana, da Messina, Sannazzaro and Poliziano arriving in the city. In 1501, Naples came under direct rule from France under Louis XII, with the Neapolitan king Frederick being taken as a prisoner to France; however, this state of affairs did not last long, as Spain won Naples from the French at the Battle of Garigliano in 1503.\n\nFollowing the Spanish victory, Naples became part of the Spanish Empire, and remained so throughout the Spanish Habsburg period. The Spanish sent viceroys to Naples to directly deal with local issues: the most important of these viceroys was Pedro Álvarez de Toledo, who was responsible for considerable social, economic and urban reforms in the city; he also supported the activities of the Inquisition.\n\nBy the 17th century, Naples had become Europe's second-largest city – second only to Paris – and the largest European Mediterranean city, with around 250,000 inhabitants. The city was a major cultural centre during the Baroque era, being home to artists such as Caravaggio, Salvator Rosa and Bernini, philosophers such as Bernardino Telesio, Giordano Bruno, Tommaso Campanella and Giambattista Vico, and writers such as Giambattista Marino. A revolution led by the local fisherman Masaniello saw the creation of a brief independent Neapolitan Republic in 1647, though this lasted only a few months before Spanish rule was reasserted. In 1656, an outbreak of bubonic plague killed about half of Naples' 300,000 inhabitants.\n\nIn 1714, Spanish rule over Naples came to an end as a result of the War of the Spanish Succession; the Austrian Charles VI ruled the city from Vienna through viceroys of his own. However, the War of the Polish Succession saw the Spanish regain Sicily and Naples as part of a personal union, with the 1738 Treaty of Vienna recognising the two polities as independent under a cadet branch of the Spanish Bourbons.\nDuring the time of Ferdinand IV, the effects of the French Revolution were felt in Naples: Horatio Nelson, an ally of the Bourbons, even arrived in the city in 1798 to warn against the French republicans. Ferdinand was forced to retreat and fled to Palermo, where he was protected by a British fleet. However, Naples' lower class \"lazzaroni\" were strongly pious and royalist, favouring the Bourbons; in the mêlée that followed, they fought the Neapolitan pro-Republican aristocracy, causing a civil war.\n\nEventually, the Republicans conquered Castel Sant'Elmo and proclaimed a Parthenopaean Republic, secured by the French Army. A counter-revolutionary religious army of \"lazzaroni\" known as the \"sanfedisti\" under Cardinal Fabrizio Ruffo was raised; they met with great success, and the French were forced to surrender the Neapolitan castles, with their fleet sailing back to Toulon.\n\nFerdinand IV was restored as king; however, after only seven years Napoleon conquered the kingdom and installed Bonapartist kings, including his brother Joseph Bonaparte (the Spanish king). With the help of the Austrian Empire and its allies, the Bonapartists were defeated in the Neapolitan War, and Ferdinand IV once again regained the throne and the kingdom.\n\nThe Congress of Vienna in 1815 saw the kingdoms of Naples and Sicily combine to form the Two Sicilies, with Naples as the capital city. In 1839, Naples became the first city on the Italian peninsula to have a railway, with the construction of the Naples–Portici railway.\n\nAfter the Expedition of the Thousand led by Giuseppe Garibaldi, which culminated in the controversial Siege of Gaeta, Naples became part of the Kingdom of Italy in 1861 as part of the Italian unification, ending the era of Bourbon rule. The kingdom of the Two Sicilies had been wealthy, and as many as 443.2 million ducats were taken from the old kingdom's banks as a contribution to the new Italian treasury. The economy of the area formerly known as the Two Sicilies collapsed, leading to an unprecedented wave of emigration, with an estimated 4 million people emigrating from the Naples area between 1876 and 1913. In the forty years following unification, the population of Naples grew by only 26%, vs. 63% for Turin and 103% for Milan; however, by 1884, Naples was still the largest city in Italy with 496,499 inhabitants, or roughly 64,000 per square kilometre (more than twice the population density of Paris).\n\nPublic health conditions in certain areas of the city were poor, with twelve epidemics of cholera and typhoid fever causing the death of some 48,000 people in the half century 1834–1884, and a high (for the time) death rate of 31.84 per thousand even in the epidemic-free period 1878–1883. Then in 1884, Naples fell victim to a major cholera epidemic, caused largely by the city's poor sewerage infrastructure. As response to these problems the government prompted since 1852 a radically transformation of the city called \"risanamento\" with the objective of improving the sewerage infrastructure and replacing the most clustered areas with large and airy avenues as this was considered the main cause of insalubrity. the project proved difficult to accomplish both politically and economically due to corruption as shown in the Saredo Inquiry, land speculation and extremely long bureaucracy, all these led to the project to take several decades to complete with contrasted results. The most notable transformations made were the construction of Via Caracciolo in place of the beach along the promenade, the creation of Galleria Umberto I and and the construction of Corso Umberto.\nNaples was the most-bombed Italian city during World War II. Though Neapolitans did not rebel under Italian Fascism, Naples was the first Italian city to rise up against German military occupation; the city was completely freed by 1 October 1943, when British and American forces entered the city. Departing Germans burned the library of the university, as well as the Italian Royal Society. They also destroyed the city archives. Time bombs planted throughout the city continued to explode into November. The symbol of the rebirth of Naples was the rebuilding of the church of Santa Chiara, which had been destroyed in a United States Army Air Corps bombing raid.\n\nSpecial funding from the Italian government's Fund for the South was provided from 1950 to 1984, helping the Neapolitan economy to improve somewhat, with city landmarks such as the Piazza del Plebiscito being renovated. However, high unemployment continues to affect Naples; Italian media attributed the past city's waste disposal issues to the activity of the Camorra organised crime network. In 2007, Silvio Berlusconi's government held senior meetings in Naples to demonstrate their intention to solve these problems. However, the late-2000s recession had a severe impact on the city, intensifying its waste-management and unemployment problems. By August 2011, the number of unemployed in the Naples area had risen to 250,000, sparking public protests against the economic situation. In June 2012, allegations of blackmail, extortion and illicit contract tendering emerged in relation to the city's waste management issues.\n\nNaples hosted the 6th World Urban Forum in September 2012 and the 63rd International Astronautical Congress in October 2012. In 2013, it was the host of the Universal Forum of Cultures. it will host the 2019 Summer Universiade\n\nNaples' 2,800-year history has left it with a wealth of historical buildings and monuments, from medieval castles to classical ruins, and a wide range of culturally and historically significant sites nearby, including the Palace of Caserta and the Roman ruins of Pompeii and Herculaneum.\n\nThe most prominent forms of architecture visible in present-day Naples are the Medieval, Renaissance and Baroque styles. Naples has a total of 448 historical churches (1000 in total), making it one of the most Catholic cities in the world in terms of the number of places of worship. In 1995, the historic centre of Naples was listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site, a United Nations programme which aims to catalogue and conserve sites of outstanding cultural or natural importance to the common heritage of mankind.\n\nThe main city square or \"piazza\" of the city is the Piazza del Plebiscito. Its construction was begun by the Bonapartist king Joachim Murat and finished by the Bourbon king Ferdinand IV. The piazza is bounded on the east by the Royal Palace and on the west by the church of San Francesco di Paola, with the colonnades extending on both sides. Nearby is the Teatro di San Carlo, which is the oldest opera house in Italy. Directly across from San Carlo is Galleria Umberto, a shopping centre and social hub.\n\nNaples is well known for its historic castles: The most ancient is Castel dell'Ovo (\"Egg Castle\"), which was built on the tiny islet of Megarides, where the original Cumaean colonists had founded the city. In Roman times the islet became part of Lucullus's villa and later it was the site to which the last western Roman emperor, Romulus Augustulus, was exiled.\n\nCastel Nuovo, also known as \"Maschio Angioino\", is one of the city's foremost landmarks; it was built during the time of Charles I, the first king of Naples. Castel Nuovo has seen many notable historical events: for example, in 1294, Pope Celestine V resigned as pope in a hall of the castle, and following this Pope Boniface VIII was elected pope by the cardinal collegium, before moving to Rome.\n\nCastel Capuano was built in the 12th century by William I, the son of Roger II of Sicily, the first monarch of the Kingdom of Naples. It was expanded by Frederick II and became one of his royal palaces. Along its history the castle was the residence of many kings and queens. In the 16th century it became the Hall of justice.\n\nAnother Neapolitan castle is Castel Sant'Elmo, which was completed in 1329 and is built in the shape of a star. Its strategic position that overlook the entire city made it the aim of various invaders. During the uprising of Masaniello in 1647, the Spanish took refuge in Sant'Elmo to escape the revolutionaries.\n\nThe Carmine Castle, built in 1392 and highly modified in the 16th century by the Spanish, was demolished in 1906 to make room for the Via Marina, although two of the castle's towers remain as a monument. The Vigliena Fort, which was built in 1702, was destroyed in 1799 during the royalist war against the Parthenopean Republic, and is now abandoned and in ruin.\n\nNaples is widely known for its wealth of historical museums. The Naples National Archaeological Museum is one of the city's main museums, with one of the most extensive collections of artefacts of the Roman Empire in the world. It also houses many of the antiques unearthed at Pompeii and Herculaneum, as well as some artefacts from the Greek and Renaissance periods.\n\nPreviously a Bourbon palace, now a museum and art gallery, the Museo di Capodimonte is another museum of note. The gallery features paintings from the 13th to the 18th centuries, including major works by Simone Martini, Raphael, Titian, Caravaggio, El Greco, Jusepe de Ribera and Luca Giordano. The royal apartments are furnished with antique 18th-century furniture and a collection of porcelain and majolica from the various royal residences: the famous Capodimonte Porcelain Factory once stood just adjacent to the palace.\n\nIn front of the Royal Palace of Naples stands the Galleria Umberto I, which contains the Coral Jewellery Museum. Occupying a 19th-century palazzo renovated by the Portuguese architect Álvaro Siza, the Museo d'Arte Contemporanea Donnaregina (MADRE) features an enfilade procession of permanent installations by artists such as Francesco Clemente, Richard Serra, and Rebecca Horn. The 16th-century palace of Roccella hosts the Palazzo delle Arti Napoli, which contains the civic collections of art belonging to the City of Naples, and features temporary exhibits of art and culture. Palazzo Como, which dates from the 15th century, hosts the Museo Filangieri of plastic arts, created in 1883 by Gaetano Filangieri.\n\nNaples is the seat of the Archdiocese of Naples, and the Catholicism is highly important to the populace; there are hundreds of churches in the city. The Cathedral of Naples is the city's premier place of worship; each year on 19 September, it hosts the longstanding Miracle of Saint Januarius, the city's patron saint. During the miracle, which thousands of Neapolitans flock to witness, the dried blood of Januarius is said to turn to liquid when brought close to holy relics said to be of his body. Below is a selective list of Naples' major churches, chapels, and monastery complexes:\n\nAside from the Piazza del Plebiscito, Naples has two other major public squares: the Piazza Dante and the Piazza dei Martiri. The latter originally had only a memorial to religious martyrs, but in 1866, after the Italian unification, four lions were added, representing the four rebellions against the Bourbons.\n\nThe San Gennaro dei Poveri is a Renaissance-era hospital for the poor, erected by the Spanish in 1667. It was the forerunner of a much more ambitious project, the Bourbon Hospice for the Poor started by Charles III. This was for the destitute and ill of the city; it also provided a self-sufficient community where the poor would live and work. Though a notable landmark, it is no longer a functioning hospital.\n\nUnderneath Naples lies a series of caves and structures created by centuries of mining, and the city rests atop a major geothermal zone. \nThere are also a number of ancient Greco-Roman reservoirs dug out from the soft tufo stone on which, and from which, much of the city is built. Approximately of the many kilometres of tunnels under the city can be visited from the Napoli Sotteranea, situated in the historic centre of the city in Via dei Tribunali. This system of tunnels and cisterns underlies most of the city and lies approximately below ground level. During World War II, these tunnels were used as air-raid shelters, and there are inscriptions in the walls depicting the suffering endured by the refugees of that era.\n\nThere are large catacombs in and around the city, and other landmarks such as the Piscina Mirabilis, the main cistern serving the Bay of Naples during Roman times.\n\nSeveral archeological excavations are also present; they revealed in San Lorenzo Maggiore the macellum of Naples, and in Santa Chiara, the biggest thermal complex of the city in Roman times.\n\nOf the various public parks in Naples, the most prominent are the Villa Comunale, which was built by the Bourbon king Ferdinand IV in the 1780s; the park was originally a \"Royal Garden\", reserved for members of the royal family, but open to the public on special holidays. The Bosco di Capodimonte, the city's largest verdant space served as a royal hunting preserve, within the Park there are a further 16 historic buildings including residences, lodges, churches as well as fountains, statues, orchards and woods.\n\nAnother important park is the Parco Virgiliano, which looks towards the tiny volcanic islet of Nisida; beyond Nisida lie Procida and Ischia. Parco Virgiliano was named after Virgil, the classical Roman poet and Latin writer who is thought to be entombed nearby.\nNaples is noted for its numerous stately villas, fountains and stairways, such as the Neoclassical Villa Floridiana, the Fountain of Neptune and the Pedamentina stairways.\n\nVarious buildings inspired by the Gothic Revival are extant in Naples, due to the influence that this movement had on the Scottish-Indian architect Lamont Young, one of the most active Neapolitan architects of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Young left a significant footprint in the cityscape and designed many urban projects, such as the city's first subway.\n\nIn the first years of the 20th century, a local version of the Art Nouveau phenomenon, known as \"Liberty Napoletano\", developed in the city, creating many buildings which still stand today. In 1935, the Rationalist architect Luigi Cosenza created a new fish market for the city. During the Benito Mussolini era, the first structures of the city's \"service center\" were built, all in a Rationalist-Functionalist style, including the Palazzo delle Poste and the Pretura buildings. The Centro Direzionale di Napoli is the only adjacent cluster of skyscrapers in southern Europe.\n\nThe city is situated on the Gulf of Naples, on the western coast of southern Italy; it rises from sea level to an elevation of . The small rivers which formerly crossed the centre of the city have since been covered over by construction. It lies between two notable volcanic regions, Mount Vesuvius and the Campi Flegrei (en: \"Phlegraean Fields\"). The islands of Procida, Capri and Ischia can all be reached from Naples by hydrofoils and ferries. Sorrento and the Amalfi Coast are situated south of the city, while the Roman ruins of Pompeii, Herculaneum, Oplontis and Stabiae, which were destroyed in the eruption of Vesuvius in 79 AD, are also visible nearby. The port towns of Pozzuoli and Baia, which were part of the Roman naval facility of Portus Julius, lie to the north of the city.\n\nThe thirty quarters (\"quartieri\") of Naples are listed below. For administrative purposes, these thirty neighborhoods are grouped together into ten governmental community boards.\nNaples has a borderline Mediterranean (\"Csa\") and humid subtropical climate (\"Cfa\") in the Köppen climate classification, since only one summer month has less than of rainfall, preventing it from being classified as solely Mediterranean or humid subtropical. The climate and fertility of the Gulf of Naples made the region famous during Roman times, when emperors such as Claudius and Tiberius holidayed near the city. The climate is a crossover between maritime and continental features, as typical of peninsular Italy. Maritime features moderate the winters, but summers are quite similar to inland areas much further north in the country. The continental influence still ensures summer highs averaging near , and Naples falls within the subtropical climate range with summer daily means of .\n\n, the population of the \"comune di Napoli\" totals around 960,000. Naples' wider metropolitan area, sometimes known as Greater Naples, has a population of approximately 4.4 million. The demographic profile for the Neapolitan province in general is relatively young: 19% are under the age of 14, while 13% are over 65, compared to the national average of 14% and 19%, respectively. Naples has a higher percentage of females (52.5%) than males (47.5%). Naples currently has a higher birth rate than other parts of Italy, with 10.46 births per 1,000 inhabitants, compared to the Italian average of 9.45 births.\n\nThe city's population rose from 621,000 in 1901 to 1,226,000 in 1971, before declining to 957,811 in 2011 as city-dwellers moved to the suburbs. According to different sources, Naples' metropolitan area is either the second-most-populated metropolitan area in Italy after Milan (with 4,434,136 inhabitants according to Svimez Data) or the third (with 3.1 million inhabitants according to the OECD). In addition, Naples is Italy's most densely populated major city, with approximately 8,182 people per square kilometre; however, it has seen a notable decline in population density since 2003, when the figure was over 9,000 people per square kilometre.\nIn contrast to many northern Italian cities, there are relatively few foreign immigrants in Naples; 94.3% of the city's inhabitants are Italian nationals. In 2017, there were a total of 58,203 foreigners in the city of Naples; the majority of these are mostly from Sri Lanka, China, Ukraine, Pakistan and Romania. Statistics show that, in the past, the vast majority of immigrants in Naples were female; this happened because male immigrants in Italy tended to head to the wealthier north.\n\nNaples is noted for its numerous higher education institutes and research centres. Naples hosts what is thought to be the oldest state university in the world, in the form of the University of Naples Federico II, which was founded by Frederick II in 1224. The university is among the most prominent in Italy, with around 100,000 students and over 3,000 professors in 2007. It is host to the Botanical Garden of Naples, which was opened in 1807 by Joseph Bonaparte, using plans drawn up under the Bourbon king Ferdinand IV. The garden's 15 hectares feature around 25,000 samples of vegetation, representing over 10,000 plant species.\n\nNaples is also served by the \"Second University\" (today named University of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli), a modern university which opened in 1989, and which has strong links to the nearby province of Caserta. Another notable centre of education is the Istituto Universitario Orientale, which specialises in Eastern culture, and was founded by the Jesuit missionary Matteo Ripa in 1732, after he returned from the court of Kangxi, the Emperor of the Manchu Qing Dynasty of China.\n\nOther prominent universities in Naples include the Parthenope University of Naples, the private Istituto Universitario Suor Orsola Benincasa, and the Jesuit Theological Seminary of Southern Italy. The San Pietro a Maiella music conservatory is the city's foremost institution of musical education; the earliest Neapolitan music conservatories were founded in the 16th century under the Spanish. The Academy of Fine Arts located on the Via Santa Maria di Costantinopoli is the city's foremost art school and one of the oldest in Italy.\nNaples hosts also the Astronomical Observatory of Capodimonte, established in 1812 by the king Joachim Murat and the astronomer Federigo Zuccari, the oldest marine zoological study station in the world, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, created in 1872 by German scientist Anton Dohrn, and the world's oldest permanent volcano observatory, the Vesuvius Observatory, founded in 1841. The Observatory lies on the slopes of Mount Vesuvius, near the city of Ercolano, and is now a permanent specialised institute of the .\n\nEach of the 8,101 \"comune\" in Italy is today represented locally by a city council headed by an elected mayor, known as a \"sindaco\" and informally called the first citizen (\"primo cittadino\"). This system, or one very similar to it, has been in place since the invasion of Italy by Napoleonic forces in 1808. When the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies was restored, the system was kept in place with members of the nobility filling mayoral roles. By the end of the 19th century, party politics had begun to emerge; during the fascist era, each commune was represented by a \"podestà\". Since World War II, the political landscape of Naples has been neither strongly right-wing nor left-wing – both Christian democrats and democratic socialists have governed the city at different times, with roughly equal frequency. Currently, the mayor of Naples is Luigi de Magistris of the Democrazia e Autonomia party; de Magistris has held the position since the 2011 elections.\n\nNaples is Italy's fourth-largest economy after Milan, Rome and Turin, and is the world's 103rd-largest urban economy by purchasing power, with an estimated 2011 GDP of US$83.6 billion, equivalent to $28,749 per capita. Naples is a major cargo terminal, and the port of Naples is one of the Mediterranean's largest and busiest. The city has experienced significant economic growth since World War II, but joblessness remains a major problem, and the city is characterised by high levels of political corruption and organised crime.\n\nNaples is a major national and international tourist destination, being one of Italy and Europe's top tourist cities. Tourists began visiting Naples in the 18th century, during the Grand Tour. In terms of international arrivals, Naples was the 166th-most-visited city in the world in 2008, with 381,000 visitors (a 1.6% decrease from the previous year), coming after Lille, but overtaking York, Stuttgart, Belgrade and Dallas.\n\nIn recent times, there has been a move away from a traditional agriculture-based economy in the province of Naples to one based on service industries. In early 2002, there were over 249,590 enterprises operating in the province registered in the Chamber of Commerce Public Register. The service sector employs the majority of Neapolitans, although more than half of these are small enterprises with fewer than 20 workers; 70 companies are said to be medium-sized with more than 200 workers; and 15 have more than 500 workers.\n\nIn 2003, employment in the province of Naples was distributed as follows:\nNaples is served by several major motorways (it: \"autostrade\"). The Autostrada A1, the longest motorway in Italy, links Naples to Milan. The A3 runs southwards from Naples to Salerno, where the motorway to Reggio Calabria begins, while the A16 runs east to Canosa. The A16 is nicknamed the \"autostrada dei Due Mari\" (\"Motorway of the Two Seas\") because it connects the Tyrrhenian Sea to the Adriatic Sea.\n\nNaples has an extensive public transport network, including trams, buses and trolleybuses, most of which are operated by the municipally owned company Azienda Napoletana Mobilità (ANM).\n\nThe city furthermore operates the \"Metropolitana di Napoli\", the Naples Metro, an underground rapid transit railway system which integrates both surface railway lines and the city's metro stations, many of which are noted for their decorative architecture and public art.\n\nThere are also four funiculars in the city (operated by ANM): \"Centrale\", \"Chiaia\", \"Montesanto\" and \"Mergellina\". Three public elevators are in operation in the city: within the bridge of Chiaia, in via Acton and near the Sanità Bridge.\n\nSuburban rail services are provided by Trenitalia, Circumvesuviana, Ferrovia Cumana and Metronapoli.\n\nThe city's main railway station is Napoli Centrale, which is located in Piazza Garibaldi; other significant stations include the Napoli Campi Flegrei and Napoli Mergellina. Naples' streets are famously narrow (it was the first city in the world to set up a pedestrian one-way street), so the general public commonly use compact hatchback cars and scooters for personal transit. Since 2007 trains running at almost have connected Naples with Rome with a journey time of under an hour, and direct high speed services also operate to Florence, Milan and Turin. Direct sleeper 'boat train' services operate nightly to cities in Sicily.\nThe port of Naples runs several public ferry, hydrofoil and SWATH catamaran services, linking numerous locations in both the Neapolitan province, including Capri, Ischia and Sorrento, and the Salernitan province, including Salerno, Positano and Amalfi. Services are also available to destinations further afield, such as Sicily, Sardinia, Ponza and the Aeolian Islands. The port serves over 6 million local passengers annually, plus a further 1 million international cruise ship passengers. A regional hydrofoil transport service, the \"Metropolitana del Mare\", runs annually from July to September, maintained by a consortium of shipowners and local administrations.\n\nThe Naples International Airport is located in the suburb of San Pietro a Patierno. It is the largest airport in southern Italy, with around 140 national and international flights arriving or departing daily.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Naples, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 77 min. 19% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 27 min, while 56.% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 7.1 km, while 11% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nNaples has long been a centre of art and architecture, dotted with Medieval, Baroque and Renaissance-era churches, castles and palaces. In the 18th century, Naples went through a period of neoclassicism, following the discovery of the remarkably intact Roman ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii.\n\nThe Neapolitan Academy of Fine Arts, founded by Charles III of Bourbon in 1752 as the Real Accademia di Disegno (en: \"Royal Academy of Design\"), was the centre of the artistic School of Posillipo in the 19th century. Artists such as Domenico Morelli, Giacomo Di Chirico, Francesco Saverio Altamura, and Gioacchino Toma worked in Naples during this period, and many of their works are now exhibited in the Academy's art collection. The modern Academy offers courses in painting, decorating, sculpture, design, restoration, and urban planning. Naples is also known for its theatres, which are among the oldest in Europe – the Teatro di San Carlo opera house dates back to the 18th century.\n\nNaples is also the home of the artistic tradition of Capodimonte porcelain. In 1743, Charles of Bourbon founded the Royal Factory of Capodimonte, many of whose artworks are now on display in the Museum of Capodimonte. Several of Naples' mid-19th-century porcelain factories remain active today.\n\nNaples is internationally famous for its cuisine and wine; it draws culinary influences from the numerous cultures which have inhabited it over the course of its history, including the Greeks, Spanish and French. Neapolitan cuisine emerged as a distinct form in the 18th century. The ingredients are typically rich in taste, while remaining affordable to the general populace.\n\nNaples is traditionally credited as the home of pizza. This originated as a meal of the poor, but under Ferdinand IV it became popular among the upper classes: famously, the Margherita pizza was named after Queen Margherita of Savoy after her visit to the city. Cooked traditionally in a wood-burning oven, the ingredients of Neapolitan pizza have been strictly regulated by law since 2004, and must include wheat flour type \"00\" with the addition of flour type \"0\" yeast, natural mineral water, peeled tomatoes or fresh cherry tomatoes, mozzarella cheese, sea salt and extra virgin olive oil.\n\nSpaghetti is also associated with the city and is commonly eaten with the sauce \"ragù\": a popular Neapolitan folkloric symbol is the comic figure Pulcinella eating a plate of spaghetti. Other dishes popular in Naples include \"Parmigiana di melanzane\", \"spaghetti alle vongole\" and \"casatiello\". As a coastal city, Naples is furthermore known for numerous seafood dishes, including \"impepata di cozze\" (peppered mussels), \"purpetiello affogato\" (octopus poached in broth), \"alici marinate\" (marinated anchovies), \"baccalà alla napoletana\" (salt cod) and \"baccalà fritto\" (fried cod), a dish commonly eaten during the Christmas period.\n\nNaples is well known for its sweet dishes, including colourful gelato, which is similar to ice cream, though more fruit-based. Popular Neapolitan pastry dishes include \"zeppole\" (more commonly called \"'a Pasta Cresciuta\" and \"'e fFritt' 'e Viento\") \"babà\", \"sfogliatelle\" and \"pastiera\", the latter of which is prepared specially for Easter celebrations. Another seasonal sweet is \"struffoli\", a sweet-tasting honey dough decorated and eaten around Christmas. Neapolitan coffee is also widely acclaimed. The traditional Neapolitan flip coffee pot, known as the \"cuccuma\" or \"cuccumella\", was the basis for the invention of the espresso machine, and also inspired the Moka pot.\n\nWineries in the Vesuvius area produce wines such as the \"Lacryma Christi\" (\"tears of Christ\") and \"Terzigno\". Naples is also the home of \"limoncello\", a popular lemon liqueur.\nThe nutritional value of the napolitan cuisine was discovered by the American epidemiologist Ancel Keys in the 1950, being later often mentioned by epidemiologists as one of the best examples of the Mediterranean diet.\n\nThe cultural significance of Naples is often represented through a series of festivals held in the city. The following is a list of several festivals that take place in Naples (note: some festivals are not held on an annual basis).\n\nThe Naples dialect, considered to be a distinct language and mainly spoken in the city, is also found in the region of Campania and has been diffused into other areas of Southern Italy by Neapolitan migrants. On 14 October 2008, a regional law was enacted by Campania which has the effect that the use of the Neapolitan language is protected.\n\nThe term \"Neapolitan language\" is often used to describe the language of all of Campania, and is sometimes applied to the entire South Italian language; \"Ethnologue\" refers to the latter as \"Napoletano-Calabrese\". This linguistic group is spoken throughout most of southern continental Italy, including the Gaeta and Sora district of southern Lazio, the southern part of Marche and Abruzzo, Molise, Basilicata, northern Calabria, and northern and central Apulia. In 1976, there were ethnologue.com estimated 7,047,399 native speakers of this group of dialects.\n\nNaples is one of the main centres of Italian literature. The history of the Neapolitan language was deeply entwined with that of the Tuscan dialect which then became the current Italian language. The first written testimonies of the Italian language are the Placiti Cassinensi legal documents, dated 960 A.D., preserved in the Monte Cassino Abbey, which are in fact evidence of a language spoken in a southern dialect. The Tuscan poet Boccaccio lived for many years at the court of King Robert the Wise and used Naples as a setting for \"The Decameron\" and a number of his later novels. His works contain some words that are taken from Neapolitan instead of the corresponding Italian, e.g. \"testo\" (neap.: \"testa\") which in Naples indicates a large terracotta jar used to cultivate shrubs and little trees. King Alfonso V of Aragon stated in 1442 that the Neapolitan language was to be used instead of Latin in official documents.\nLater Neapolitan was replaced by Spanish during Spanish domination, and then by Italian. In 1458 the \"Accademia Pontaniana\", one of the first academies in Italy, was established in Naples as a free initiative by men of letters, science and literature. In 1480 the writer and poet Jacopo Sannazzaro wrote the first pastoral romance, \"Arcadia\", which influenced Italian literature. In 1634 Giambattista Basile collected \"Lo Cunto de li Cunti\", five books of ancient tales written in the Neapolitan dialect rather than Italian. Philosopher Giordano Bruno, who theorised the existence of infinite solar systems and the infinity of the entire universe, completed his studies at University of Naples. Due to philosophers such as Giambattista Vico, Naples became one of the centres of the Italian peninsula for historic and philosophy of history studies.\n\nJurisprudence studies were enhanced in Naples thanks to eminent personalities of jurists like Bernardo Tanucci, Gaetano Filangieri and Antonio Genovesi. In the 18th century Naples, together with Milan, became one of the most important sites from which the Enlightenment penetrated into Italy. Poet and philosopher Giacomo Leopardi visited the city in 1837 and then died there. His works influenced Francesco de Sanctis who made his studies in Naples, and then eventually became Minister of Instruction during the Italian kingdom. De Sanctis was one of the first literary critics to discover, study and diffusing the poems and literary works of the great poet from Recanati.\n\nWriter and journalist Matilde Serao co-founded the newspaper Il Mattino with her husband Edoardo Scarfoglio in 1892. Serao was an acclaimed novelist and writer during her day. Poet Salvatore Di Giacomo was one of the most famous writers in the Neapolitan dialect, and many of his poems were adapted to music, becoming famous Neapolitan songs. In the 20th century, philosophers like Benedetto Croce pursued the long tradition of philosophy studies in Naples, and personalities like jurist and lawyer Enrico De Nicola pursued legal and constitutional studies. De Nicola later helped to draft the modern Constitution of the Italian Republic, and was eventually elected to the office of President of the Italian Republic. Other noted Neapolitan writers and journalists include Antonio De Curtis, Curzio Malaparte, Giancarlo Siani and Roberto Saviano.\n\nNaples was one of the centres of the peninsula from which originated the modern theatre genre as nowadays intended, evolving from 16th century \"comedy of art\". \nThe masked character of Pulcinella is worldwide famous figure either as theatrical character or puppetry character.\n\nThe music Opera genre of opera buffa was created in Naples in the 18th century and then spread to Rome and to northern Italy. In the period of Belle Époque Naples rivalled with Paris for its Café-chantants, and many famous neapolitan songs were originally created to entertain the public in the cafès of Naples. Perhaps the most well known song is \"Ninì Tirabusciò\". The history of how this song was born was dramatised in the eponymous comedy movie \"\" starring Monica Vitti.\n\nThe Neapolitan popular genre of \"Sceneggiata\" is an important genre of modern folk theatre worldwide, dramatising common canon themes of thwarted love stories, comedies, tearjerker stories, commonly about honest people becoming camorra outlaws due to unfortunate events. The Sceneggiata became very popular amongst the neapolitan people, and then became one of the best known genres of Italian cinema because of actors and singers like Mario Merola and Nino D'Angelo. Many writers and playwrights such as Raffaele Viviani wrote comedies and dramas for this genre. Actors and comedians like Eduardo Scarpetta and then his sons Eduardo De Filippo, Peppino De Filippo and Titina De Filippo, contributed towards making the neapolitan theatre and its comedies and tragedy plays well known, such as \"Filumena Marturano\" and \"Napoli Milionaria\".\n\nNaples has played an important role in the history of Western European art music for more than four centuries. The first music conservatories were established in the city under Spanish rule in the 16th century. The San Pietro a Majella music conservatory, founded in 1826 by Francesco I of Bourbon, continues to operate today as both a prestigious centre of musical education and a musical museum.\n\nDuring the late Baroque period, Alessandro Scarlatti, the father of Domenico Scarlatti, established the Neapolitan school of opera; this was in the form of \"opera seria\", which was a new development for its time. Another form of opera originating in Naples is \"opera buffa\", a style of comic opera strongly linked to Battista Pergolesi and Piccinni; later contributors to the genre included Rossini and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The Teatro di San Carlo, built in 1737, is the oldest working theatre in Europe, and remains the operatic centre of Naples.\nThe earliest six-string guitar was created by the Neapolitan Gaetano Vinaccia in 1779; the instrument is now referred to as the romantic guitar. The Vinaccia family also developed the mandolin. Influenced by the Spanish, Neapolitans became pioneers of classical guitar music, with Ferdinando Carulli and Mauro Giuliani being prominent exponents. Giuliani, who was actually from Apulia but lived and worked in Naples, is widely considered to be one of the greatest guitar players and composers of the 19th century, along with his Catalan contemporary Fernando Sor. Another Neapolitan musician of note was opera singer Enrico Caruso, one of the most prominent opera tenors of all time: he was considered a man of the people in Naples, hailing from a working-class background.\n\nA popular traditional dance in Southern Italy and Naples is the Tarantella, originated in the Apulia region and spread next to all part of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. The Neapolitan tarantella is a courtship dance performed by couples whose \"rhythms, melodies, gestures, and accompanying songs are quite distinct\" featuring faster more cheerful music.\n\nA notable element of popular Neapolitan music is the \"Canzone Napoletana\" style, essentially the traditional music of the city, with a repertoire of hundreds of folk songs, some of which can be traced back to the 13th century. The genre became a formal institution in 1835, after the introduction of the annual Festival of Piedigrotta songwriting competition. Some of the best-known recording artists in this field include Roberto Murolo, Sergio Bruni and Renato Carosone. There are furthermore various forms of music popular in Naples but not well known outside it, such as \"cantautore\" (\"singer-songwriter\") and \"sceneggiata\", which has been described as a musical soap opera; the most well-known exponent of this style is Mario Merola.\n\nNaples has had significant influence on Italian cinema. Because of the significance of the city, many films and television shows are set (entirely or partially) in Naples. In addition to serving as the backdrop for several movies and shows, many talented celebrities (actors, actresses, directors, and producers) are originally from the city of Naples.\n\nNaples was the location for several early Italian cinema masterpieces. \"Assunta Spina\" (1915) was a silent film adapted from a theatrical drama by Neapolitan writer, Salvatore Di Giacomo. The film was directed by Neapolitan Gustavo Serena. Serena also starred in the 1912 film, \"Romeo and Juliet.\"\n\nA list of some well-known films that take place (fully or partially) in Naples include:\nNaples is home of one of the first Italian colour films, \"Toto in Color\" (1952), starring Totò (Antonio de Curtis), a famous comedic actor born in Naples.\n\nSome notable comedies set in Naples include \"Ieri, Oggi e Domani\" (Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow), by Vittorio De Sica, starring Sophia Loren and Marcello Mastroianni, Episode \"Adelina of Naples\" (Academy Award-winning movie), \"It Started in Naples\", \"L'oro di Napoli\" again by Vittorio De Sica, dramatic movies like Dino Risi's \"Scent of a Woman\", war movies like \"The four days of Naples\" by Sardinian director Nanni Loy, music and Sceneggiata movies like Zappatore, from the eponymous song by Libero Bovio, starring singer and actor Mario Merola, crime movies like Il Camorrista with Ben Gazzara playing the part of infamous camorra boss Raffaele Cutolo, and historical or costume movies like That Hamilton Woman starring Vivien Leigh and Laurence Olivier.\n\nMore modern Neapolitan films include \"Ricomincio da tre\", which depicts the misadventures of a young emigrant in the late 20th century. The 2008 film \"Gomorrah\", based on the book by Roberto Saviano, explores the dark underbelly of the city of Naples through five intertwining stories about the powerful Neapolitan crime syndicate, the Camorra.\n\nNaples has appeared in episodes of TV serials such as \"The Sopranos\" and the 1998 version of \"The Count of Monte Cristo\", starring Gérard Depardieu.\n\nFootball is by far the most popular sport in Naples. Brought to the city by the British during the early 20th century, the sport is deeply embedded in local culture: it is popular at every level of society, from the \"scugnizzi\" (street children) to wealthy professionals. The city's best known football club is SSC Napoli, which plays its home games at the Stadio San Paolo in Fuorigrotta. The team plays in the Serie A league and has won the \"Scudetto\" twice, the Coppa Italia five times and the Supercoppa Italiana twice. The team has also won the UEFA Cup, and once named FIFA Player of the Century Diego Maradona among its players. Naples has itself produced numerous prominent professional footballers, including Ciro Ferrara and Fabio Cannavaro. Cannavaro was captain of Italy's national team until 2010, and led the team to victory in the 2006 World Cup. He was consequently named World Player of the Year.\n\nSome of the city's smaller clubs include Sporting Neapolis and Internapoli, which play at the Stadio Arturo Collana. The city also has teams in a variety of other sports: Eldo Napoli represents the city in basketball's Serie A and plays in the city of Bagnoli. The city co-hosted the EuroBasket 1969. Partenope Rugby are the city's best-known rugby union side: the team has won the rugby union Serie A twice. Other popular local sports include water polo, horse racing, sailing, fencing, boxing, taekwondo and martial arts. The Accademia Nazionale di Scherma (National Academy and Fencing School of Naples) is the only place in Italy where the titles \"Master of Sword\" and \"Master of Kendo\" can be obtained.\n\nNeapolitan tailoring offers comfort and lightness; it was born as an attempt to loosen up the stiffness of English tailoring, which didn't suit the Neapolitan lifestyle.\n\nCharacteristics of Neapolitan tailoring:\n\n\nPeople awarded the honorary citizenship of Naples are:\n\nNaples is involved in town twinning (Italian: \"gemellaggio\"). Below is a list of twin towns and sister cities listed on the official website of the city of Naples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52939930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52939930", "title": "Oromo conflict", "text": "Oromo conflict\n\nThe Oromo conflict was an armed conflict between the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) and the Government of Ethiopia. The conflict began in 1973, when Oromo nationalists established the OLF and its armed wing, the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA).\n\nThe Oromo people are an ethnic group that mainly inhabit Ethiopia, with communities in neighbouring Kenya and Somalia as well. They are the largest ethnic group in Ethiopia and the wider Horn of Africa; according to a 2007 census, they make up about 34.5% of Ethiopia's population, and others estimate that they make up about 40% of the population.\n\nIn 1967, the imperial regime of Haile Selassie I outlawed the Mecha and Tulama Self-Help Association (MTSHA), an Oromo social movement, and conducted mass arrests and executions of its members. The group's leader, Colonel General Tadesse Birru, who was a prominent military officer, was among those arrested. The actions by the regime sparked outrage among the Oromo community, ultimately leading to the formation of the Ethiopian National Liberation Front in 1967 and the Oromo Liberation Front in 1973.\n\nIn 1973, the Ethiopian military ousted the imperial regime and seized control of the country. The new regime promptly arrested Oromo leaders; subsequently, the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF) was formed during a secret conference attended by Oromo leaders, including Hussein Sora and Elemo Qiltu. A group of armed Oromo fighters in the Chercher Mountains were adopted as the OLF's armed wing, the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA). In 1974, the OLA increased its activities in the Chercher Mountains, prompting the Ethiopian regime to send its military to the region to quell the insurrection.\n\nIn June 1974, General Tadesse Birru, an Oromo nationalist who had been arrested by the imperial regime in 1966 along with other high ranking military officers, escaped from house arrest and joined Oromo rebels led by Hailu Regassa in Shewa. Birru and Regassa were later captured and executed by the Derg regime.\n\nIn late August 1974, an OLA unit came down from their stronghold in the Chercher Mountains and made their way closer to Gelemso, hoping that nearby fully grown crops would be able to hide them from Ethiopian soldiers as they advanced towards other nearby towns. Three of the unit's new recruits were unaccustomed to climbing long distances, so they spent the night around the bottom of the mountains, while the rest of the soldiers camped at the top.\n\nWhen an OLA soldier was sent to retrieve the three recruits, it was discovered that they had been killed by Ethiopian militiamen who had followed the unit to Tiro. A large group of Ethiopian policemen and militiamen surrounded the OLA position in the mountains, and the two opposing groups began to exchange gunfire. A group of Ethiopian soldiers led by General Getachew Shibeshi later arrived, and began to shell the stronghold with mortar rockets, killing most of the OLA's members, including Elemo Qiltu. The event became known as the Battle of Tiro. Contingents of the OLA continued to fight the regime after the battle and later gained a massive influx of recruits and volunteers after the Derg regime executed Tadesse Birru and Hailu Regassa.\n\nIn 1976, the OLF established a stronghold in the Chercher Mountains and began reorganizing itself. A congress was created by Oromo leaders, which revised the 1973 \"OLF Political Program\" and issued a new detailed program. The program called for the \"total liberation of the Oromo nation from Ethiopian colonialism\". The conference is now known as the Founding Congress, and marked the beginning of modern Oromo nationalism.\n\nIn the 1980s, the OLF estimated that they had over 10,000 soldiers. They were poorly equipped in comparison to other rebel groups in Ethiopia at the time, such as the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF) and the Tigrayan People's Liberation Front (TPLF). The OLF also opened an office in Sudan in the 1980s, after its office in Somalia was closed down.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the government of Ethiopia was accused of using scorched earth tactics, such as burning down entire villages and massacring inhabitants. The OLF also lost several prominent members due to government ambushes and heavy fire; the secretary general of the OLF at the time,\nGalassa Dilbo, was nearly killed in one such ambush.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Derg regime began to lose its control over Ethiopia. The OLF failed to maintain strong alliances with the other two big rebel groups at the time; the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF) and the Tigrayan People's Liberation Front (TPLF). In 1990, the TPLF created an umbrella organization for several rebel groups in Ethiopia, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF). The EPRDF's Oromo subordinate, the Oromo Peoples' Democratic Organization (OPDO) was seen as an attempted replacement for the OLF.\n\nIn 1991, the EPRDF seized power and established a transitional government. The EPRDF and the OLF pledged to work together in the new government; however, they were largely unable to cooperate, as the OLF saw the OPDO as an EPRDF ploy to limit their influence. In 1992, the OLF announced that it was withdrawing from the transitional government because of \"harassment and [the]assassinations of its members\". In response, the EPRDF sent soldiers to destroy OLA camps. Despite initial victories against the EPRDF, the OLF were eventually overwhelmed by the EPRDF's superior numbers and weaponry, forcing OLA soldiers to use guerrilla warfare instead of traditional tactics.\n\nIn the late 1990s, most of the OLF's leaders had escaped Ethiopia, and the land originally administer by the OLF had been seized by the Ethiopian government, now led by the EPRDF.\n\nAfter the Eritrean–Ethiopian War, the OLF moved its leadership and headquarters to Eritrea. The OLA allegedly began receiving military training and arms from the Eritrean government. On 25 July 2000, OLF and IFLO signed a peace agreement after five days of negotiations, thus ending 20 years of inter-factional fighting.\nIn 2006, the OLA in southern Oromia retreated into Kenya in an attempt to regroup. That same year, Brigadier General Kemel Gelchu of the Ethiopian military took 100 of his soldiers and joined the OLF in Eritrea. Despite initially aiding the OLF as leader of its military wing, in 2008, General Kemel Gelchu took matters into his own hands and announced that the OLF would lay down its weapons and abandon its previous goal of seceding Oromia and instead work as a political party to democratize Ethiopia. Along with this announcement, he commanded OLF soldiers in south Oromia to lay down their weapons and surrender to the government.\n\nOn 30 May 2015, various media outlets reported that the OLF had attacked a federal police station in the Ethiopian side of Moyale town killing 12 Ethiopian soldiers. This occurred weeks after Ethiopian forces swarmed across the Kenyan border and began absuing locals of Sololo town looking for OLF troops. These forces later responded to the attack by launching an attack Moyale District Hospital and killing one guard.\n"}
{"id": "46913174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46913174", "title": "Penny toy", "text": "Penny toy\n\nPenny toys is a name used for inexpensive tin toys mostly manufactured in Germany between the 1880s and 1914 that were sold in the UK, Europe and America in the late 19th century and early 20th century.\n\nPenny toys, also known as tin toys, were made of tin metal with painted surfaces that typically included excellent detail. Most penny toys were manufactured in Germany and were originally sold to wholesalers by the gross for 8 shillings allowing the seller, often street peddlers to sell them for a substantial profit. Typically the toys were miniatures, that is; under 10 cm and often included elements that facilitated movement, adding to their charm. In the United Kingdom, the toys were sold for one Penny, hence the popular name of \"penny toys.\"\n\nThe advent of penny toys broadened the market for children's toys, by making them accessible and affordable for working-class families. Although penny toys were manufactured into the first decades of the 20th century, the period 1885 -1914 is the peak period for their production. Today, penny toys are highly collectible. Publicly accessible examples can be found in museums in England, North America, Scandinavia and across Europe; including Birmingham Science Museum in England, Royal Ontario Museum in Canada, Plassenburg Zinnfiguren Museum in Germany and Museo des Soldados de Iberica in Valencia, Spain.\n\nIndividual toys were manufactured for specific markets. Examples include; London omnibuses and ambulances destined for the British market; French postal delivery vans for Continental Europe and American locomotives intended for sale in America. Types of penny toys included toy dolls, whistles, trains, motorcoars, public transport and emergency vehicles, trucks, soldiers, animals and even a small Bible.\n\nOffset color lithography enabled fine detail and color to be applied to sheets of tin plate quickly and economically. Shapes were machine-cut and stamped and then assembled by unskilled workers, sometimes in cottage industries. Many were manufactured by the Johann Philip Meier company of Nurenberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16823858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16823858", "title": "Pierre Mandonnet", "text": "Pierre Mandonnet\n\nPierre Mandonnet (26 February 1858, Beaumont, Puy-de-Dôme – 4 January 1936, Le Saulchoir, Belgium) was a French-born, Belgian Dominican historian, important in the neo-Thomist trend of historiography and the recovery of medieval philosophy. He made his reputation with a study of Siger of Brabant.\n\nIn 1887 he was ordained as a priest, and from 1891 to 1919, was a professor of church history at the University of Fribourg. In 1902/03 he served as university rector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35571884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35571884", "title": "Raimund Karl", "text": "Raimund Karl\n\nRaimund Karl (born September 15, 1969 in Vienna) is an Austrian archaeologist, Celticist and historian. He is currently a professor of Archaeology and Heritage Management Institute and at the School of History, Welsh History and Archaeology at Bangor University.\n\nBetween 1987-1995 Karl studied \"Prehistory and Early History\", and a combination of subjects on Celtic at the University of Vienna. He attended additional courses in Egyptology, Ethnology, Classical Archaeology, Ancient history, numismatics and linguistics. This study was followed by a doctorate in prehistory and early history, in which he graduated in 2003. His habilitation process took place in 2005-2006, his habilitation thesis appeared in 2006 under the title \"Altkeltisch (\"Old Celtic\") Social Structures\". With over one hundred professional publications, including many large and basic ones, he is one of the best known of the prehistorians from Austria and Central and Western Europe.\n\nIn October 2001 he worked as an AHRB (now: AHRC) Research Fellow at the \"University of Wales Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies\", where he was on the \"Project 5 - Celtic identity\" project, among others, creating an \"Atlas for Celtic Studies\" and cooperated on the Encyclopedia \"Celtic Culture - A Historical Encyclopedia\". He also taught in 2002 at the Centre for Continuing Education of the \"University of Wales, Aberystwyth\" Archaeology. From January 2003 he joined Aberystwyth as Lecturer in Archaeology and Heritage at the University of Wales, Bangor. In 2006 he became its Senior Lecturer, 2008 promoted to Professor of Archaeology and Heritage. Since 2007 he is also Head of School of\nHistory, Welsh History and Archaeology at Bangor University.\n\nSince 2004 he is a member of the Institute of Field Archaeologists and a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. In 2005 he became a member of the Board of Celtic Studies, where he remained until its dissolution in 2007. Since 2007 he is the representative for prehistoric archeology in the successor organization of the Board of Celtic Studies, the \"Publications and Collaborative Research Committee\" of the \"Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies\". Also in 2007 he was elected a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London.\n\nProfessor Raimund Karl was formerly a Research Fellow at the University of Wales Centre for Advanced Welsh & Celtic Studies \"Ancient Britain and the Atlantic Zone Project (Ireland, Armorica, and the Iberian Peninsula)\". His research interests and publications, while there, dealt with the Iron Age in Wales and Austria, Celtic social structure, and the Celtosceptic controversy. His contribution to the \"Celtic from the West\" book edited by Barry Cunliffe and John T. Koch was a more practical and useful cooperative definition of the \"Celts\" based on the contemporary inclusive and associative paradigm rather than just essentially on language which is the traditional paradigm. In this chapter he also outlined a model for development of \"Celtic culture\" that doesn't depend on any one particular site of origin but rather an association of cultural traits of disparate origins that leads to the culture propagated so widely over Europe in ancient times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1821711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1821711", "title": "Rosette (decoration)", "text": "Rosette (decoration)\n\nA rosette is a small, circular device that is typically presented with a medal. The rosettes are either worn on the medal to denote a higher rank, or for situations where wearing the medal is deemed inappropriate, such as on a suit. Rosettes are issued in nations such as Belgium, France, Italy and Japan. Rosettes are also sometimes called bowknots, due to their shape. Moreover, a large rosette is sometimes pinned onto the ribbon which suspends a medal, typically the Officer (and sometimes Grand Officer)'s badge of certain orders of chivalry.\n\nSome small lapel rosettes are worn in the same manner as lapel pins. For instance, knights of the Order of the British Empire now wear a lapel rosette bearing the order's cross in the center, whereas previously this was a purely metallic lapel pin. While a metal lapel pin mounted on a silk rosette is considered a decoration of distinction, this is not always true of a metal emblem lacking the ribbon backing.\n\nIn the United States, the Medal of Honor is issued with a 1/2 inch light blue rosette with white stars, authorized for civilian wear as a lapel button. Previously, the Purple Heart was also presented with a purple and white rosette, but now has been replaced by a metallic lapel pin. The lapel pin is designed to be a smaller version of the rectangular service ribbon, also for use on civilian wear. Most American military medals have the ribbon bar design scaled down to the size of a lapel pin. Members of the Sons of the American Revolution wear small, blue-and-buff rosettes as lapel buttons. The colors match those of the uniform of Gen. George Washington and the Continental Army.\n\nA rosette adorns the ribbon of all national Orders of Merit (namely the Order of Leopold, the Order of the Crown, the Order of Leopold II, and the dormant Order of the African Star and Royal Order of the Lion) at the rank of Officer. Such rosette may also be worn in diminutive form on appropriate civilian dress. Ranks above that of Officer (Commander, Grand Officer and Grand Cross) may wear a rosette adorned with gold and/or silver bars (or \"half-knots\") on each side of the rosette on appropriate civilian dress. Such rosette also adorns ribbon bars worn on the semi-formal dress uniform.\n\nSeveral of the top decorations of France, including the Légion d'honneur and the Ordre national du Mérite, are presented with a rosette along with the medal. The Legion of Honor authorized a rosette for those who are the rank of officer or above. If the grade is higher, the rosette is adorned with gold and/or silver bars (or \"half-knots\") which are place beside each side of the rosette. The same manner is accorded to the Order of National Merit. In occasions when ribbon bars are worn alone, the above-mentioned half-knots and/or rosettes are pinned onto the ribbon bars as appropriate to denote the wearer's grade.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, small silver rosettes can be added to the ribbons that are worn in place of medals. Usually these indicate multiple award bars, the number of times a decoration for merit or distinguished service has been awarded. (Exceptions are the George Cross and Victoria Cross, where the ribbons are issued only with miniatures of the medals attached.) Holders of the 1914 Star, the 1939-45 Star, the Atlantic Star, the Pacific Star, the Burma Star, the South Atlantic Medal (awarded for service in the Falklands War), the Gulf War Medal 1991 and the Sierra Leone medal could also receive these rosettes if they met certain criteria for combat service.\n\nSeveral American-based lineage societies provide a rosette as an insignia of membership for informal wear.\n\n"}
{"id": "171409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171409", "title": "Roussillon", "text": "Roussillon\n\nRoussillon ( or ; ; , ) is one of the historical counties of the former Principality of Catalonia, corresponding roughly to the present-day southern French \"département\" of Pyrénées-Orientales (Eastern Pyrenees) save Fenouillèdes. It may also refer to \"Northern Catalonia\" () or \"French Catalonia\", the first used by Catalan-speakers and the second used by French-speakers. A 1998 survey found that 34% of respondents stated they speak Catalan, and a further 21% understand it.\n\nIts name is derived from Ruscino (Rosceliona, Castel Rossello), a small fortified place near modern-day Perpignan where Gaulish chieftains met to consider Hannibal's request for a conference. The region formed part of the Roman province of Gallia Narbonensis from 121 BC to AD 462, when it was ceded with the rest of Septimania to the Visigoth Theodoric II. His successor, Amalaric, on his defeat by Clovis I in 531, retired to Hispania, leaving a governor in Septimania.\n\nIn 719, the Saracens crossed the Pyrenees and maintained political hegemony of Septimania until their final defeat in 759 by Pepin the Short, who went on to occupy Roussillon after conquering Narbonne. Roussillon was occupied by the Carolingians in 760. On the invasion of Hispania in 778, Charlemagne found the Marca Hispanica wasted by war and the inhabitants settled in the mountains. He granted some lands in the plains to Visigothic refugees from Moorish Hispania and founded several monasteries. In 792, the Saracens again invaded France, but they were repulsed by Count Guillaume of Toulouse - regent of the child Louis the Pious, King of Aquitaine - whose hegemony extended into Catalonia.\n\nThe different portions of his kingdom in time grew into allodial fiefs and, in 893, Sunyer II became the first hereditary Count of Roussillon. But his rule only extended over the eastern part of what became the later province. The western part, the Cerdanya (French, Cerdagne), was ruled in 900 by Miró as first count, and one of his grandsons, Bernat, became the first hereditary count of the middle portion, or Besalú. The Counts of Roussillon were allied to their cousins the Counts of Empúries in a centuries-long conflict with the surrounding great nobles. Count Girard I participated in the First Crusade in the following of Raymond IV of Toulouse, and was one of the first to set foot in Jerusalem when it was stormed by the Crusaders in 1099. At the beginning of the 12th century, the prestige of the Counts of Barcelona began to rise to such a height that the Counts of Roussillon had no choice but to swear fealty to them.\n\nIn 1111, Ramon Berenguer III, Count of Barcelona, inherited the fief of Besalú, to which was added in 1117 Cerdanya. The possession of Roussillon by its last count, Girard II, was challenged by his illegitimate brothers. To ensure that his brothers would not inherit his territories, in his will Girard II left all his lands to Alfonso II of Aragon, who took possession in 1172. Under the Aragonese monarchs, economic and demographic growth of the region continued, and Collioure (), the port of Perpignan, became an important locus of Mediterranean trade.\n\nAs the French and Spanish crowns grew in power, the region of Roussillon, forming part of the border between them, was frequently a site of military conflict. By the Treaty of Corbeil (1258), Louis IX of France formally surrendered sovereignty over Roussillon and his claim to the title of Count of Barcelona to the Crown of Aragon, recognizing a centuries-old reality.\n\nJames I of Aragon had wrested the Balearic Isles from the Moors and joined these islands with Roussillon to create the Kingdom of Majorca, with its capital at Perpignan. In 1276, James I granted this kingdom to his son, who became James II. The subsequent disputes of this monarch with his brother Peter III were exploited by Philip III of France in his quarrel with Peter III for the crown of the Two Sicilies. Philip III espoused James II's cause and led an army into Aragon but, retreating, died at Perpignan in 1285. Lacking the resources to continue the struggle, James then became reconciled to his brother Peter, and in 1311 the former was succeeded by his son Sanç I, or Sancho I, who founded the cathedral of Perpignan shortly before his death in 1324. His successor, James III of Majorca, refused to do homage to Philip VI of France for the seigneury of Montpellier, and applied to Peter IV of Aragon for aid. Peter not only refused, but declared war and seized Majorca and Roussillon in 1344.\n\nThe province was now reunited to the Crown of Aragon, and it enjoyed peace until 1462. In that year, the disputes between John II of Aragon and his son over the Crown of Navarre spurred Louis XI of France to support John against his subjects, who had risen in revolt. The province, having been pledged as collateral to Louis for 300,000 crowns, was occupied by French troops until 1493, when Charles VIII evacuated the region as part of a settlement with the Catholic Monarchs (Isabel I of the Crown of Castile and Ferdinand II of the Crown of Aragon, they were second-cousins, creators of the Trastamara dynasty that ruled over the two Crowns).\n\nDuring a subsequent war between France and the Trastamara dynasty (1496–1498), the people suffered equally from the Castilian garrisons and the French invaders.\n\nThe Habsburg dynasty took control of both the Crown of Castile and the Crown of Aragon in 1516 and the two crowns were for the first time ruled by the same physical person. This was under Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor (called Charles I of Spain), grandson of the Catholic Monarchs.\n\nThe dislike caused by the Castilians during the Trastamara rule was effaced in the pride of sharing the glory of the Emperor Charles I of Spain. When Perpignan was besieged by the forces of Henry, Dauphin of France in 1542, the inhabitants were loyal to Charles V. Perpignan earned the royal sobriquet of \"Fedelissima\" (\"Most Faithful City\").\n\nWhen the Catalans rose against the Spanish Crown in 1641, Louis XIII of France entered the conflict on the side of the former. After a protracted war, the Treaty of the Pyrenees (1659) secured Roussillon and part of the Cerdanya (Cerdagne) to the French crown, creating the French province of Roussillon.\n\nThe next fifty years saw a concerted effort by Louis XIV both to ensure the political allegiance of his new subjects and to alter their cultural identity. He was successful in the former but failed in the latter. Outside the capital of Perpignan, Roussillon remained distinctly Catalan in outlook and culture until the late nineteenth century, when industrialization began to replace Catalan identity with French.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the Ancien Régime province of Roussillon was abolished and a new department, the Department of Pyrénées-Orientales, was created instead. This department corresponds roughly to the old Roussillon, with the addition of the comarca of Fenouillèdes. Pyrénées-Orientales is the name by which this department is officially known in France. The old name of Roussillon did contribute to the French \"région\" of Languedoc-Roussillon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21407518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21407518", "title": "Secondary antisemitism", "text": "Secondary antisemitism\n\nSecondary antisemitism is a distinct kind of antisemitism which is said to have appeared after the end of World War II. Secondary antisemitism is often explained as being \"caused by\" the Holocaust (as opposed to \"in spite of\" it). One frequently quoted formulation of the concept, first published in Henryk M. Broder's 1986 book \"Der Ewige Antisemit\" (\"The Eternal Antisemite\"), stems from the Israeli psychiatrist , who once remarked: \"The Germans will never forgive the Jews for Auschwitz.\" The term itself was coined by , a Frankfurt School co-worker of Theodor W. Adorno and Max Horkheimer, based on their Critical Theory.\n\nAn alternate explanation was proposed for the spate of postwar anti-Semitic violence in Eastern Europe. In 1946, the Slovak writer Karel František Koch argued that the anti-semitic incidents that he witnessed in Bratislava after the war were \"not antisemitism, but something far worse—the robber’s anxiety that he might have to return Jewish property,\" a view that has been endorsed by Czech-Slovak scholar . It has been estimated that only 15% of Jewish property was returned after the war, and restitution was \"negligible\" in Eastern Europe. Property not returned has been valued at over $100 million in 2005 dollars.\n\nAdorno, in a 1959 lecture titled \"Was bedeutet: Aufarbeitung der Vergangenheit\" (published in his 1963 book \"Eingriffe. Neun kritische Modelle.\") addressed the fallacy of the broad German post-war tendency to associate and simultaneously causally link Jews with the Holocaust. According to Adorno's critique, an opinion had been readily accepted in Germany according to which the Jewish people were culpable in the crimes against them. Jewish guilt was assumed to varying extents, depending on the varying incarnations of that antisemitic notion, one of which is the idea that Jews were (and are) exploiting German guilt over the Holocaust.\n\nInitially, members of the Frankfurt School spoke of \"guilt-defensiveness anti-Semitism\", an antisemitism motivated by a deflection of guilt.\n\nThe rehabilitation of many lower and even several higher-ranking Third Reich officials and officers appears to have contributed to the development of secondary antisemitism. These officials were rehabilitated in spite of their considerable individual contributions to Nazi Germany's crimes. Several controversies ensued early in post-World War II Germany, e.g., when Konrad Adenauer appointed Hans Globke as Chief of the Chancellery although the latter had formulated the emergency legislation that gave Hitler unlimited dictatorial powers and had been one of the leading legal commentators on the Nuremberg race laws of 1935. However, according to Adorno, parts of the German public never acknowledged these events and instead formed the notion of Jewish guilt in the Holocaust.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2976222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2976222", "title": "Sh'erit ha-Pletah", "text": "Sh'erit ha-Pletah\n\nSh'erit ha-Pletah () is a biblical (Ezra 9:14 and 1 Chronicles 4:43) term used by Jewish refugees who survived the Holocaust to refer to themselves and the communities they formed in postwar Europe following the liberation in the spring of 1945.\n\nHundreds of thousands of survivors spent several years following their repatriation in Displaced Persons (DP) camps in Germany, Austria, and Italy. The refugees became socially and politically organized, advocating at first for their political and human rights in the camps, and then for the right to emigrate to British Mandate of Palestine, most of which became the Jewish State of Israel where the majority ended up living by 1950.\n\nIn an effort to destroy the evidence of war crimes, Nazi authorities and military staff accelerated the pace of killings, forced victims on death marches, and attempted to deport many of them away from the rapidly shrinking German lines. As the German war effort collapsed, survivors were typically left on their own, on trains, by the sides of roads, and in camps. Concentration camps and death camps were liberated by Allied forces in the final stages of the war, beginning with Majdanek, in July 1944, and Auschwitz, in January 1945; Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen, Dachau, Mauthausen, and other camps were liberated in April and May 1945.\n\nAt the time of Germany's unconditional surrender on 7 May 1945 there were some 6.5 to 7 million displaced persons in the Allied occupation zones, among them an estimated 55,000 to 60,000 Jews. The vast majority of non-Jewish DPs were repatriated in a matter of months. The number of Jewish DPs, however, subsequently grew many fold as Jewish refugees from Eastern Europe migrated westward. It is estimated that a total of more than 250,000 Jewish DPs resided in camps or communities in Germany, Austria, and Italy during the period from 1945 to 1952.\n\nIn the first weeks after liberation, Allied military forces improvised relief in the form of shelter, food, and medical care. A large number of refugees were in critical condition as a result of malnutrition, abuse, and disease. Many died, but medical material was requisitioned from military stores and German civilian facilities. Military doctors as well as physicians among the survivors themselves used available resources to help a large number recover their physical health. The first proper funerals of Holocaust victims took place during this period with the assistance of Allied forces and military clergy.\n\nShelter was also improvised in the beginning, with refugees of various origins being housed in abandoned barracks, hotels, former concentration camps, and private homes.\n\nAs Germany and Austria came under Allied military administration, the commanders assumed responsibility for the safety and disposition of all displaced persons. The Allies provided for the DPs according to nationality, and initially did not recognize Jews as constituting a separate group. One significant consequence of this early perspective was that Jewish DPs sometimes found themselves housed in the same quarters with former Nazi collaborators. Also, the general policy of the Allied occupation forces was to repatriate DPs to their country of origin as soon as possible, and there was not necessarily sufficient consideration for exceptions; repatriation policy varied from place to place, but Jewish DPs, for whom repatriation was problematic, were apt to find themselves under pressure to return home.\n\nGeneral George Patton, the commander of the United States Third Army and military governor of Bavaria, where most of the Jewish DPs resided, was known for pursuing a harsh, indiscriminate repatriation policy. However, his approach raised objections from the refugees themselves, as well as from American military and civilian parties sympathetic to their plight. In early July 1945, Patton issued a directive that the entire Munich area was to be cleared of displaced persons with an eye toward repatriating them. Joseph Dunner, an American officer who in civilian life was a professor of political science, sent a memorandum to military authorities protesting the order. When 90 trucks of the Third Army arrived at Buchberg to transport the refugees there, they refused to move, citing Dunner's memo. Based on these efforts and blatant antisemitic remarks, Patton was relieved of this command.\n\nBy June 1945 reports had circulated back in the United States concerning overcrowded conditions and insufficient supplies in the DP camps, as well as the ill treatment of Jewish survivors at the hand of the U.S. Army. American Jewish leaders, in particular, felt compelled to act. American Earl G. Harrison was sent by president Truman to investigate conditions among the \"non-repatriables\" in the DP camps. Arriving in Germany in July, he spent several weeks visiting the camps and submitted his final report on 24 August. Harrison's report stated among other things that:\nHarrison's report was met with consternation in Washington, and its contrast with Patton's position ultimately contributed to Patton being relieved of his command in Germany in September 1945.\n\nThe number of refugees in the \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" continued to grow as displaced Jews who were in Western Europe at war's end were joined by hundreds of thousands of refugees from Eastern Europe. Many of these were Polish Jews who had initially been repatriated. Nearly 90% of the approximately 200,000 Polish Jews who had survived the war in the Soviet Union chose to return to Poland under a Soviet-Polish repatriation agreement. But Jews returning to their erstwhile homes in Poland met with a generally hostile reception from their non-Jewish neighbors. Between fall 1944 and summer 1946 as many as 600 Jews were killed in anti-Jewish riots in various towns and cities, including incidents in Cracow, around August 20, 1945; Sosnowiec, on October 25; and Lublin, on November 19. Most notable was the pogrom in Kielce on July 4, 1946, in which 42 Jews were killed. In the course of 1946 the flight of Jewish refugees from Eastern Europe toward the West amounted to a mass exodus that swelled the ranks of DPs in Germany and Austria, especially in the U.S. Zone.\n\nAlthough hundreds of DP camps were in operation between 1945 and 1948, the refugees were mostly segregated, with several camps being dedicated to Jews. These camps varied in terms of the conditions afforded to the refugees, how they were managed, and the composition of their population.\n\nIn the American sector, the Jewish community across many camps organized itself rapidly for purposes of representation and advocacy. In the British sector, most refugees were concentrated in the Bergen-Belsen displaced persons camp and were under tighter control.\n\nThe Allies had begun to prepare for the humanitarian aftermath of the war while it was still going on, with the founding of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA), on 9 November 1943. However, the beginnings of the agency were plagued by organizational problems and corruption. The military authorities were, in any case, reluctant to yield significant responsibility for the DP assembly centers to a civilian organization, until it became clear that there would be a need to house and care for the DPs for an extended period of time. At the point when it was supposed to begin its work the UNRRA was woefully understaffed in view of the larger than expected numbers of DPs, and additional staff that were hastily recruited were poorly trained. The agency began to send staff into the field in summer 1945; its mission had been conceived mainly as a support to the repatriation process, including providing medical services, and assuring the delivery of adequate nutrition, as well as attending to the DPs' needs for comfort and entertainment; however, it often fell short of fulfilling these functions. As of 15 November 1945, the UNRRA officially assumed responsibility for the administration of the camps, while remaining generally subordinate to the military, which continued to provide for housing and security in the camps, as well as the delivery of food, clothing, and medical supplies. Over time the UNRRA supplemented the latter basic services with health and welfare services, recreational facilities, self-help programs, and vocational guidance.\n\nBy the time that the UNRRA took the reins of administration of the camps, the Jewish DPs had already begun to elect their own representatives, and were vocal about their desire for self-governance. However, since camp committees did not yet have any officially sanctioned role, their degree of power and influence depended at first on the stance of the particular UNRRA director at the given camp.\n\nThe UNRRA was active mainly through the end of 1946 and had wound down its operations by mid 1947. In late 1947 a new successor organization, the International Refugee Organization (IRO) absorbed some of the UNRRA staff and assumed its responsibilities, but with a focus turned toward resettlement, as well as care of the most vulnerable DPs, rather than repatriation.\n\nA number of other organizations played an active role in the emerging Jewish community in the DP camps. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (\"Joint\") provided financial support and supplies from American sources; in the British sector, the Jewish Relief Unit acted as the British equivalent to the Joint; and the ORT established numerous vocational and other training.\n\nThe refugees who found themselves in provisional, sparse quarters under military guard soon spoke up against the ironic nature of their liberation, invoking an oft-repeated slogan \"From Dachau to Feldafing.\" Working committees were established in each camp, and on July 1, 1945 the committees met for a founding session of a federation for Jewish DP camp committees in Feldafing. The session also included representatives of the Jewish Brigade and the Allied military administration. It resulted in the formation of a provisional council and an executive committee chaired by Zalman Grinberg. Patton's attempt at repatriating Jewish refugees had resulted in a resolve within the \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" to define their own destiny. Bolstered by the support from Harrison and Patton's frustrated attempts at forcing a solution upon them, the various camp committees convened a conference for the entire \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" on July 25 at the St. Ottilien camp. The delegates passed a fourteen-point program that established a broad mandate, including the establishment of a Jewish state in Palestine with UN recognition, compensation to victims, participation in the trials against Nazi war criminals, archival of historical records, and full autonomy for the committees.\n\nAs it turned out, the American and British sectors developed independent organization structures.\n\nThe center for the British sector in Germany was at the Bergen-Belsen DP camp, where Josef Rosensaft had been the primus motor for establishing what became the Central Committee for Displaced Persons in the British zone. In the American sector, Zalman Grinberg and Samuel Gringauz and others led the formation of the Central Committee of the Liberated Jews, which was to establish offices first in the former Deutsches Museum and then in Siebertstrasse 3 in Munich.\n\nThe central organizations for Jewish refugees had an overwhelming number of issues to resolve, among them:\n\nMilitary authorities were at first reluctant to officially recognize the central committees as the official representatives of the Jewish refugees in DP camps, though cooperation and negotiations carried characteristics of a de facto acceptance of their mandate. But on September 7, 1946, at a meeting in Frankfurt, the American military authorities recognized the Central Committee of the Liberated Jews as a legitimate party to the issue of the Jewish displaced persons in the American sector.\n\nWhat the people of the \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" had in common was what had made them victims in the first place, but other than that they were a diverse group. Their outlook, needs, and aspirations varied tremendously. There were strictly observant Jews as well as individuals that had earlier been assimilated into secular culture. Religious convictions ran from the Revisionist group to Labor Zionists and even ideological communists. Although Yiddish was the common language within the community, individuals came from virtually every corner of Europe.\n\nThere was lively political debate, involving satire, political campaigns, and the occasional acrimony. The growth of Yiddish newspapers within the camps added fuel to the political culture.\n\nThe political environment of the community evolved during its years of existence. In the first year or two, it was predominantly focused on improving the conditions in the camps and asserting the legitimacy of the community as an autonomous entity. Over time, the emphasis shifted to promoting the Zionist goals of allowing immigration into the British Mandate in Palestine; political divisions within the \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" mirrored those found in the Yishuv itself.\n\nAt every turn, the community expressed its opposition and outrage against British restrictions on Jewish immigration to Palestine. In the British sector, the protests approached a level of civil disobedience; in the American sector, attempts were made to apply political pressure to alleviate these restrictions. The relationship between \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" and British authorities remained tense until the State of Israel was formed. This came to a head when Lieutenant General Sir Frederick E. Morgan - then UNRRA chief of operations in Germany - claimed that the influx of Jewish refugees from Eastern Europe as \"nothing short of a skillful campaign of anti-British aggression on the part of Zion aided and abetted by Russia... <nowiki>[meaning]</nowiki> death to the British.\" (Morgan was allowed to remain in his post after this comment but was fired when making similar comments later).\n\nIn late 1945, the UNRRA conducted several surveys among Jewish refugees, asking them to list their preferred destination for emigration. Among one population of 19,000, 18,700 named \"Palestine\" as their first choice, and 98% also named \"Palestine\" as their second choice. At the camp in Fürth, respondents were asked not to list Palestine as both their first and second choice, and 25% of the respondents then wrote \"crematorium\".\n\nAll the while, the \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" retained close relationships with the political leadership of the Yishuv, prompting several visits from David Ben-Gurion and other Zionist leaders. While officially detached from the committees, there was considerable support for clandestine immigration to Palestine through the Aliya Beth programs among the refugees; and tacit support for these activities also among American, UNRRA, Joint and other organizations. A delegation (consisting of Norbert Wollheim, Samuel Schlumowitz, Boris Pliskin, and Leon Retter flew to the United States to raise funds for the community, appealing to a sense of pride over \"schools built for our children, four thousand pioneers on the farms... thousands of youths in trades schools... self-sacrifice of doctors, teachers, writers... democratization... hard-won autonomy,\" and also met with officials at the US War Department and Sir Raphael Salento over the formation of the International Refugee Organization.\n\nOver time, the \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" took on the characteristics of a state in its own right. It coordinated efforts with the political leadership in the Yishuv and the United States, forming a transient power triangle within the Jewish world. It sent its own delegation to the Twenty-Second Zionist Congress in Basel.\n\nWith the exception of 10,000–15,000 who chose to make their homes in Germany after the war (see Central Council of Jews in Germany), the vast majority of the Jewish DPs ultimately left the camps and settled elsewhere. About 136,000 settled in Israel, 80,000 in the United States, and sizeable numbers also in Canada and South Africa.\n\nAlthough the community established many of the institutions that characterize a durable society, and indeed came to dominate an entire section of Munich, the overriding imperative was to find new homes for the refugees. To make the point, many of the leaders emigrated at the first possible opportunity. Both overt lobbying efforts and underground migration sought to open for unrestricted immigration to Palestine. And the camps largely emptied once the state of Israel was established, many of the refugees immediately joining the newly formed Israel Defense Forces to fight the 1948 Arab-Israeli War.\n\nThe Central Committee in the American sector declared its dissolution on December 17, 1950 at the Deutsche Museum in Munich. Of the original group that founded the committee, only rabbi Samuel Snieg remained for the dissolution. All the others had already emigrated, most of them to Israel. Rabbi Snieg had remained to complete the first full edition of the Talmud published in Europe after the Holocaust, the so-called Survivors' Talmud.\n\nThe last DP camp, Föhrenwald, closed in February 1957, by then populated only by the so-called \"hardcore\" cases, elderly, and those disabled by disease.\n\nWhile most Holocaust survivors view their time in the DP camps as a transitional state, the \"Sh'erit ha-Pletah\" became an organizing force for the repatriation of the remnant in general and to Israel in particular. Its experience highlighted the challenges of ethnic groups displaced in their entirety without recourse to their original homes. It also demonstrated the resolve and ingenuity of individuals who had lost everything but made a new life for themselves.\n\nSome struggled with survivor guilt for decades. \n\nSuicide amongst survivors has been a subject of some disagreement amongst Israeli medical professionals. In 1947, Dr. Aharon Persikovitz, a gynecologist who had survived the Dachau concentration camp gave a lecture called \"The Psychological State Of the New Immigrant\" in which he said: \"Holocaust survivors do not commit suicide; they heroically prove the continuity of the Jewish people\". According to Professor Yoram Barak this statement became \"an accepted national myth\". Barak says \"The survivors themselves also did not want to be stigmatized as `sick, weak and broken;' rather, they wanted to join in the myth of the heroic sabra who just recently fought a glorious War of Independence against the enemy.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35253163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35253163", "title": "Singleton (lifestyle)", "text": "Singleton (lifestyle)\n\n\"Singleton\" is a term for human beings who live in a single-person household, especially those who prefer the lifestyle of living alone. It was popularized by the \"Bridget Jones\" novels and films, but is also a term used in sociology. \n\nSociologist Eric Klinenberg reports that before the 1950s, no society has had large numbers of people living alone. Historically, this has happened when elderly people outlive their spouses, and when men have migrated for work. In modern times, large numbers of people have begun to live happily alone in cities and with the help of communication technologies like the telephone, email, and social networking services. Klinenberg has found that the ability of women to work, own property, and initiate divorce creates more opportunities for living alone; in countries like Saudi Arabia where women do not have autonomy, relatively few people live alone.\n\nSingle people may live alone before their first romantic partner, after a divorce, or after their partner has died. When unmarried or married couples maintain separate residences as an alternative to cohabitation, it may be a long distance relationship, a temporary separation due to troubles in the relationship, or simply living apart together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8331742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8331742", "title": "South End Historical Society", "text": "South End Historical Society\n\nThe South End Historical Society or is a non-profit community organization founded in 1966, and dedicated to the preservation of the built environment and revitalization of the South End neighborhood in Boston, Massachusetts, United States. In 1972, the South End neighborhood was placed on the National Register of Historic Places as the largest extant Victorian rowhouse district in the United States. In 1983, the district achieved designation as a Boston Landmark District, by the Boston Landmarks Commission, bringing with it legal protection and public review of alterations to buildings within the district.\n\nOver the course of its existence the has worked to retain and restore architectural integrity of the South End. The supports research, conservation, and education to protect and promote interest in the local historic buildings, monuments, and public squares of the South End.\n\n"}
{"id": "235411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235411", "title": "Studs Terkel", "text": "Studs Terkel\n\nLouis \"Studs\" Terkel (May 16, 1912 – October 31, 2008) was an American author, historian, actor, and broadcaster. He received the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction in 1985 for \"The Good War\", and is best remembered for his oral histories of common Americans, and for hosting a long-running radio show in Chicago.\n\nTerkel was born to Russian Jewish immigrants, Samuel Terkel, a tailor, and Anna (Annie) Finkel, a seamstress, in New York City. At the age of eight he moved with his family to Chicago, Illinois, where he spent most of his life. He had two brothers, Ben (1907–1965) and Meyer (1905–1958). He attended McKinley High School.\n\nFrom 1926 to 1936, his parents ran a rooming house that also served as a meeting place for people from all walks of life. Terkel credited his understanding of humanity and social interaction to the tenants and visitors who gathered in the lobby there, and the people who congregated in nearby Bughouse Square. In 1939, he married Ida Goldberg (1912–1999), and the couple had one son. Although he received his J.D. degree from the University of Chicago Law School in 1934 (and was admitted to the Illinois Bar the following year), he decided instead of practicing law, he wanted to be a concierge at a hotel, and he soon joined a theater group.\n\nA political liberal, Terkel joined the Works Progress Administration's Federal Writers' Project, working in radio, doing work that varied from voicing soap opera productions and announcing news and sports, to presenting shows of recorded music and writing radio scripts and advertisements. His well-known radio program, titled \"The Studs Terkel Program\", aired on 98.7 WFMT Chicago between 1952 and 1997. The one-hour program was broadcast each weekday during those forty-five years. On this program, he interviewed guests as diverse as Martin Luther King, Leonard Bernstein, Mort Sahl, Bob Dylan, Alexander Frey, Dorothy Parker, Tennessee Williams, Jean Shepherd, and Big Bill Broonzy.\n\nIn the late 1940s and early 1950s, Terkel was also the central character of \"Studs' Place\", an unscripted television drama about the owner of a greasy-spoon diner in Chicago through which many famous people and interesting characters passed. This show, along with Marlin Perkins's \"Zoo Parade\", \"Garroway at Large\" and the children's show \"Kukla, Fran, and Ollie\", are widely considered canonical examples of the Chicago School of Television.\n\nTerkel published his first book, \"Giants of Jazz\", in 1956. He followed it in 1967 with his first collection of oral histories, \"Division Street America\" with 70 people talking about effect on the human spirit of living in an American metropolis.\n\nHe also served as a distinguished scholar-in-residence at the Chicago History Museum. He appeared in the film \"Eight Men Out\", based on the Black Sox Scandal, in which he played newspaper reporter Hugh Fullerton, who tries to uncover the White Sox players' plans to throw the 1919 World Series. Terkel found it particularly amusing to play this role, as he was a big fan of the Chicago White Sox (as well as a vocal critic of major league baseball during the 1994 baseball strike), and gave a moving congratulatory speech to the White Sox organization after their 2005 World Series championship during a television interview.\n\nTerkel received his nickname while he was acting in a play with another person named Louis. To keep the two straight, the director of the production gave Terkel the nickname \"Studs\" after the fictional character about whom Terkel was reading at the time—Studs Lonigan, of James T. Farrell's trilogy.\n\nTerkel was acclaimed for his efforts to preserve American oral history. His 1985 book \"\"The Good War\": An Oral History of World War Two\", which detailed ordinary peoples' accounts of the country's involvement in World War II, won the Pulitzer Prize. For \"\", Terkel assembled recollections of the Great Depression that spanned the socioeconomic spectrum, from Okies, through prison inmates, to the wealthy. His 1974 book, \"Working\", in which (as reflected by its subtitle) \"People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do\", also was highly acclaimed. \"Working\" was made into a short-lived Broadway show of the same title in 1978 and was telecast on PBS in 1982. In 1995, he received the Chicago History Museum \"Making History Award\" for Distinction in Journalism and Communications. In 1997, Terkel was elected a member of The American Academy of Arts and Letters. Two years later, he received the George Polk Career Award in 1999.\n\nIn 2004, Terkel received the Elijah Parish Lovejoy Award as well as an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Colby College. In August 2005, Terkel underwent successful open-heart surgery. At the age of ninety-three, he was one of the oldest people to undergo this form of surgery and doctors reported his recovery to be remarkable for someone of that advanced age. Terkel smoked two cigars a day until 2004.\n\nOn May 22, 2006, Terkel, along with other plaintiffs, including Quentin Young, filed a suit in federal district court against AT&T Inc., to stop the telecommunications carrier from giving customer telephone records to the National Security Agency without a court order.\n\nThe lawsuit was dismissed by Judge Matthew F. Kennelly on July 26, 2006. Judge Kennelly cited a \"state secrets privilege\" designed to protect national security from being harmed by lawsuits.\n\nIn an interview in \"The Guardian\" celebrating his 95th birthday, Terkel discussed his own \"diverse and idiosyncratic taste in music, from Bob Dylan to Alexander Frey, Louis Armstrong to Woody Guthrie\".\n\nTerkel published a new personal memoir entitled \"Touch and Go\" in fall 2007.\n\nTerkel was a self-described agnostic, which he jokingly defined as \"a cowardly atheist\" during a 2004 interview with Krista Tippett on American Public Media's \"Speaking of Faith\".\n\nOne of his last interviews was for the documentary \"Soul of a People\" on Smithsonian Channel. He spoke about his participation in the Works Progress Administration.\n\nAt his last public appearance, in 2007, Terkel said he was \"still in touch—but ready to go\". He gave one of his last interviews on the BBC \"Hardtalk\" program on February 4, 2008. He spoke of the imminent election of Barack Obama as President of the United States, and offered him some advice, in October 2008.\n\nTerkel died in his Chicago home on Friday, October 31, 2008 at the age of ninety-six. He had been suffering ever since a fall in his home earlier that month.\n\nIn 1998, Terkel and WFMT, the radio station which broadcast Terkel's long-running program, had donated approximately 7,000 tape recordings of Terkel's interviews and broadcasts to the Chicago History Museum. In 2010, the Museum and the Library of Congress announced a multi-year joint collaboration to digitally preserve and make available at both institutions these recordings, which the Library of Congress called, \"a remarkably rich history of the ideas and perspectives of both common and influential people living in the second half of the 20th century.\" \"For Studs, there was not a voice that should not be heard, a story that could not be told,\" said Gary T. Johnson, Museum president. \"He believed that everyone had the right to be heard and had something important to say. He was there to listen, to chronicle, and to make sure their stories are remembered.\" In 2014 WFMT and the Chicago History Museum announced the creation of the website, Studsterkel.org (see studsterkel.wfmt.com), which will house the entire archive of Studs Terkel interviews.\n\nIn 1982, Terkel was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of Illinois at Chicago.\n\nIn 1985, Terkel received the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction for his book \"The Good War\".\n\nIn 2001, Terkel was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame as a Friend of the Community.\n\nIn 2004, Terkel was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the \"Order of Lincoln\" (the State's highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in the area of Communications.\n\nIn 2006, Terkel received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Dayton Literary Peace Prize, the first and only annual U.S. literary award recognizing the power of the written word to promote peace.\n\nIn 2010, Terkel was inducted into the Chicago Literary Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2827028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2827028", "title": "Sugata Bose", "text": "Sugata Bose\n\nSugata Bose (born 7 September 1956) is an Indian historian and politician who has taught and worked in the United States since the mid-1980s. His fields of study are South Asian and Indian Ocean history. Bose taught at Tufts University until 2001, when he accepted the Gardiner Chair of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University. Bose is also the Director of the Netaji Research Bureau in Kolkata, India, a research center and archives devoted to the life and work of Bose's great uncle, the Indian nationalist, Subhas Chandra Bose. Bose is the author most recently of \"His Majesty's Opponent: Subhas Chandra Bose and India's Struggle against Empire\" (2011) and \"A Hundred Horizons: The Indian Ocean in the Age of Global Empire\" (2006).\n\nSince 2014, Bose has served as a Member of India's Parliament from the Jadavpur Constituency in West Bengal with his party affiliation in Mamata Banerjee led All India Trinamool Congress (TMC).\n\nSugata Bose was born in Calcutta, India. After studying at Presidency College, Kolkata, Bose subsequently completed his PhD at the University of Cambridge before being named a Research Fellow of St. Catharine's College at Cambridge in 1981.\n\nThe grandnephew of Indian nationalist Subhas Chandra Bose and grandson of nationalist Sarat Chandra Bose, Bose is the son of former Trinamool Congress parliamentarian Krishna Bose and paediatrician Sisir Kumar Bose. Bose's brother, Sumantra Bose, teaches at the London School of Economics; his sister, Sarmila Bose, is a researcher at Oxford University.\n\nAfter completing his Ph.D. at Cambridge, Sugata Bose began his career as a professor of history and diplomacy at Tufts University. In 2001 Bose was appointed to the Gardiner Chair of Oceanic History and Affairs, a position that had lain vacant for almost two decades, one which had been previously occupied by historians of the Western Hemisphere, but one for which Harvard specifically wanted a historian of South Asia. From 2003 to 2010, Bose headed up the university's South Asia initiative as well as the graduate program in the history department.\n\nIn 2011 Bose published \"His Majesty's Opponent: Subhas Chandra Bose and India's Struggle against Empire\", a biography of his great uncle Subhas Bose. The biography, a trade book, has been criticised in scholarly reviews for soft-peddling or oversimplifying Subhas Chandra Bose's alliances with Italian Fascism, German National Socialism, and Japanese imperialism. The book has also been criticised for its optimistic speculations on what Subhas Bose might have accomplished had he lived. Some popular reviews have been more positive.\n\nIn his earlier \"A Hundred Horizons: The Indian Ocean in the Age of Global Empire\" (2006), Bose attempts to challenge the thesis pioneered by Kirti N. Chaudhuri in and developed by Andre Wink and others, which holds that the world's first \"global economy,\" the trans-Indian-ocean maritime economy—whose trade was assisted by the alternating winds and currents of the monsoons and which arose in the wake of the spread of Islam—was in turn undercut by European capitalism in the early 18th century. Instead, Bose contends, in the main thesis of his book, an inter-regional economy of middle-level bazaar merchants and traders continued well into the late 1920s, existing between the dominant European capitalists at the top and the peasants and peddlers at the bottom. This according to Bose, was not just the case in the market of goods and services, but also in the barter of ideas and culture. Attempting to bolster the latter notion are sections in the book on Mohandas K. Gandhi, Rabindranath Tagore, and Bose's great uncle Subhas Chandra Bose. \"A Hundred Horizons\" was praised by academic reviewers for explicating the transformations to networks which linked Indian Ocean societies, beyond the influence of colonial empires, and for exploring \"cosmopolitan notions of anticolonialism\" throughout the Indian Ocean world. However, Bose's delineation of that economy has been criticised for not going much beyond India and Indians, for reducing the complex exchange between the British and India to a clash of Indian nationalism and British tyranny; and for not providing sufficient warrant for the main thesis in the book.\n\nBose is also the author and editor of books on the economic, social and political history of modern South Asia. Beginning his career with work on the economy of agrarian Bengal, Bose published two volumes on his research. \"Agrarian Bengal: Economy, Social Structure and Politics, 1919–1947\", published in 1986, contextualised rural economic life within the wider currents of the global economy, while a 1993 contribution to the \"New Cambridge History of India\", \"Peasant Labour and Colonial Capital: Rural Bengal since 1770\", analysed two and a half centuries of regional economic and social change.\n\nSugata Bose is a Trinamool Congress MP at the 16th Lok Sabha, representing the Jadavpur constituency.\n\nIn January 2012, Bose joined \"New Yorker\" editor David Remnick, former \"New York Times\" editor Joseph Lelyveld and journalist Peter Popham at the sixth Jaipur Literature Festival in a panel on the challenges of biographical writing.\n\nBose has been active in researching, speaking, and publishing on Rabindranath Tagore, contributing to projects across different media. In 2007, Krishna and Sugata Bose co-edited Purabi: the East in its Feminine Gender, a book and CD of Tagore's poetry and music. Bose has produced a four-CD set of Tagore's songs written outside of India as \"Visva Yatri Rabindranath\", and has lectured widely on Tagore in North America, Europe, and Asia.\n\nBeyond his work at Harvard and Tufts, Bose has helped steer two major projects advancing higher education in India. Since 2007, Bose has been a member of the Government of India's Nalanda Mentor Group, which seeks to establish an international university on the site of the ancient University of Nalanda in Bihar. Since 2011, Bose has served as chairman of the Presidency College Mentor Group, which seeks to revitalise the 194-year-old Kolkata college.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2822600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2822600", "title": "Tanika Sarkar", "text": "Tanika Sarkar\n\nTanika Sarkar is a historian of modern India based at the Jawaharlal Nehru University. Sarkar's work focuses on the intersections of religion, gender, and politics in both colonial and postcolonial South Asia, in particular on women and the Hindu Right.\n\nTanikar Sarkar was born to Amal Bhattacharya, professor of English at Presidency College, and Sukumari Bhattacharya, eminent Sanskritist and scholar on early Indian culture. She is married to fellow historian, Sumit Sarkar.\n\nSarkar earned a B.A. in History from the Presidency College, University of Calcutta in 1972. She also earned a degree in Modern History from the University of Calcutta in 1974. She received her PhD from the University of Delhi in 1981.\n\nShe is a professor of History at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. \nShe has also taught at the St. Stephen's College, and the Indraprastha College, Delhi University. She has also taught modern Indian History at the University of Chicago.\n\nTanika Sarkar has published the following Monographs:\n\nIn 2004, she has received the \"Rabindra Puraskar\" from the Bangla Academy, the highest literary award given in West Bengal. It was reported that she intended to return it in protest over the police firing in Nandigram in March 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "19549735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19549735", "title": "The Heroic Age (journal)", "text": "The Heroic Age (journal)\n\nThe Heroic Age: A Journal of Early Medieval Northwestern Europe is a peer-reviewed academic journal founded in 1998, with first issue having been published during spring/summer 1999. The founder and the first editor-in-chief of the journal was Michelle Ziegler.\n\nThe title of the journal, \"The Heroic Age,\" refers to the early medieval period, though there is certain variation in the definition of the period in focus: it is (or has been, in previous versions of their website, calls for papers, and other sources) defined as stretching \"from the early 4th through 13th centuries\", \"from the beginning of the fourth century through the beginning of the thirteenth\", \"from the late fourth through eleventh centuries\", \"from 400-1100 AD\", \"approximately [...] between 300 and 1200 CE\", and \"from the late Roman empire to the advent of the Norman empire\". This variation is (partly, at least) accounted for in the Letter from the Editor in Issue 10 (May 2007) as related to changes in the editorial board of the journal: \"[...] our Editorial Board experienced a few changes. While some members retired, we also added several new members [...] With these changes in board composition, our attentions necessarily shifted: four of the five new members do significant work on the continent. To address this, our new Mission Statement increases the time period we consider from 400-1100 to 300-1200. Likewise, there is an accompanying shift in geography. Our new Mission Statement addresses all of Northwestern Europe evenly rather than stressing the British Isles.\"\n\nPublications in \"The Heroic Age\" cover all aspects of Early Medieval Northwestern Europe. The journal seeks, according to their own homepage, \"to foster dialogue between all scholars of this period across ethnic and disciplinary boundaries, including—but not limited to—history, archaeology, and literature pertaining to the period\".\n\n\"The Heroic Age\" started as a biannual journal: it had a spring/summer and a fall/winter issue in 1999 and in 2000. Two issues were published also in 2010, the first one in August and the second in November. However, the frequency of published issues decreased in the new millennium. No issues of the journal were published in 2002, 2011, 2013, and 2014. Otherwise (that is, in 2001, 2003–2009, 2012, and 2015), one issue per year was published. Larry Swain wrote that the original idea was that \"The Heroic Age\" should appear quarterly. Intentions to publish two yearly issues have also been expressed, both in the initial stage, and later.\n\nRegular features include full-length research articles, editions and translations of primary sources, biographical essays, a forum on modern theory and scholarship, a review of relevant web-sites (\"Electronic Medievalia\"), reviews of scholarship originally published in German, Dutch, and French (a column called \"Continental Business\"), as well as book reviews (including reviews of scholarly monographs and fiction based on the Middle Ages), and film and television reviews.\n\nIn 2010, the journal published a cluster of essays in tandem with postmedieval: a journal of cultural medieval studies.\n\nThe website of the journal has also a links page.\n\nThe editors-in-chief are currently L. J. Swain (Bemidji State University) and Deanna Forsman (North Hennepin Community College).\n\nThe journal is included databases and bibliographies including the MLA Directory of Periodicals and International Bibliography, EBSCO's Electronic Journal Service, the History of Science Society, and others.\n"}
{"id": "35099871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35099871", "title": "Tom Mason (Falling Skies)", "text": "Tom Mason (Falling Skies)\n\nTom Mason is a fictional character and protagonist of the TNT television series \"Falling Skies.\" The character is played by Noah Wyle. \"Falling Skies\" tells the story of the aftermath of a global invasion by several races of extraterrestrials that neutralizes the world's power grid and technology, quickly destroys the combined militaries of all the world's countries, and apparently kills over 90% of the human population within a few days. Mason is one of the leaders of the 2nd Mass, a group of survivors fighting against the aliens.\n\nThe character was created by series creator Robert Rodat. Noah Wyle was cast in the role in 2009, on recommendation by executive producer Steven Spielberg who produced Wyle's previous series \"ER.\"\n\nAt the opening of the series, most of the human race has been destroyed in an alien invasion. Tom Mason, a history professor from Boston who almost always wears the same bike gloves, is made second-in-command of the 2nd Massachusetts Militia Regiment, a group of civilians and fighters fleeing the city. Tom's three sons are Hal, Ben, and Matt; his wife perished during the initial stages of the invasion. At the start of the series, Ben has been captured by the \"Skitters\" – six-legged beings who make up the alien ground forces – and fitted with a \"harness\" that is making him perform slave labor through mind control. Around this time, Tom encounters a group of scavengers led by a man named John Pope (Colin Cunningham). After a firefight with Skitters, Pope's group is reluctantly taken in by the 2nd Mass.\n\nAfter learning that Ben is being kept in a hospital with other brainwashed children, Tom, Hal, and the 2nd Mass' commanding officer, Captain Dan Weaver (Will Patton), formulate a plan to infiltrate the building, kill the Skitter guarding them, and rescue Ben and the other captives. Ben's harness is removed, but Hal notices that his brother has undergone physical and behavioral changes during his time in captivity. Meanwhile, Terry Clayton (Henry Czerny), an old friend of Weaver's and the commander of another survivor group, is revealed to be a collaborator who is giving human children to the Skitters. After Clayton's treachery is revealed, Tom fatally shoots him.\n\nWhen Skitter forces draw back in major cities, the 2nd Mass decide to launch an offensive on the alien base in Boston; Tom and Weaver scout it to detect weaknesses. It is during this expedition that they realize the Skitters are being commanded by another race of aliens later identified as the \"Overlords.\" During the initial stages of the attack, Tom evacuates the 2nd Mass' civilian population from the school where they are hiding, then joins the fight in Boston. Using a grenade launcher given to him by Pope, Tom shoots down a spacecraft which crashes into and destroys the alien base. The Overlords, having underestimated the human resistance, offer to begin negotiations with the 2nd Mass. Tom begrudgingly agrees when he is told that it will save Ben from his transformation by the harness. The season ends with Tom being led aboard an Overlord ship.\n\nThree months after the battle in Boston, a traumatized Tom is returned to the 2nd Mass and is accidentally shot by Ben. In flashbacks, it is revealed that Tom was put through agonizing torture before being brought before the Overlords, who offered to allow the 2nd Mass to peacefully live in a \"neutral zone\" in exchange for their surrender; Tom refused. A \"Mech\" – one of the robotic beings fighting alongside the Skitters – massacred a group of humans as a reprisal. After he recovers, Tom becomes the focus of suspicion by other members of the 2nd Mass, who fear that he turned or was brainwashed while in alien captivity; this tension leads to a conflict between Tom and Pope, who forms a parallel group called the Berserkers. A parasitical alien probe is found and removed from Tom's eye, leading him to question his own loyalty.\n\nThe 2nd Mass decides to travel to Charleston, South Carolina, where they have been told that other groups of survivors – led by former members of the U.S. government – are organizing. Over the course of the journey, Tom grows ever closer to Anne Glass (Moon Bloodgood), the medical doctor for the 2nd Mass. The group comes across a Skitter that Tom identifies as one of the aliens who tortured him during his time on the ship. They learn that a large group of Skitters have fought off the control of the harness and are mounting a rebellion against the Overlords; the Skitter rebels desire an alliance with the humans. During a firefight with alien forces, Tom briefly holds an Overlord – who was also present during Tom's own captivity – captive.\n\nUpon arriving in Charleston, Tom is reunited with his academic mentor, Arthur Manchester (Terry O'Quinn). Manchester, the \"Majority Leader\" of Charleston's government, is overeager to prevent hostilities with the aliens, a position that Tom and Weaver consider reckless. When given the option of joining forces with the approaching Skitter rebellion, Manchester refuses and eventually orders that all members of the 2nd Mass be arrested. However, General Cole Bressler (Matt Frewer), the commander of Charleston's resistance force, mounts a \"coup\" and deposes Manchester. Tom facilitates dialogue between the rebel Skitters and the humans, resulting in a plot to assassinate the Overlord that was briefly captured by the 2nd Mass. The 2nd Mass is forced to work with the Skitters with no help from Bressler or his men. During the attack on an Overlord weapon, the location of which had been provided by the rebel Skitters, Tom, Weaver, Hal, Ben, Maggie and Anne are captured by Karen and her Overlord master. While torturing them to find out what they know, Karen reveals to Tom that Anne is pregnant with his child. Before she can inflict harm on either of them, Tom says that he will talk.\n\nAt that moment, the rebel Skitters attack and free the humans while taking care of the Overlord's forces. The Overlord himself is attacked by the rebel leader, \"Red Eye\", but Red Eye is killed. Tom seizes the electrostaff that Karen had used to torture them and used to kill the Overlord. As he does so, Karen flees, screaming that they will never win. The weapon is successfully destroyed, marking one of humanity's first major victories since the beginning of the invasion. However, despite the victory and Manchester's offer that Tom be elected to succeed him as Majority Leader, Tom and Weaver believe that the best thing for the 2nd Mass is to leave Charleston and continue their life on the road. However, before they can leave, a firestorm apparently engulfs Charleston and several pod-like ships land, revealing new aliens.\n\nAs Season Three begins, the 2nd Mass is still in Charleston and Tom has been elected President of the New United States. Also, the human resistance and their Skitter allies have formed an alliance with the new aliens, known as the Volm, who have provided them with the technology to effectively combat the Overlords, whose name has been revealed as being the Espheni. They have also provided a device to remove harnesses from enslaved captives, which Dr. Glass (now well advanced in pregnancy) is seen using. One of the Volm, whom Tom names Cochise, is now serving as an adviser to and fights alongside the 2nd Mass. After seven months of combat, the humans are finally drawing blood against the invaders, so much so that the Espheni have had to resort to espionage to gain an advantage over the humans and their intergalactic enemies, the Volm.\n\nWhile Tom carries on his duties as President of the New United States, he has to deal with many of the hardships of being a leader - including the issue of a mole within Charleston. Manchester is given the job of uncovering the mole's identity, and is on the verge of doing so when the mole kills him in his office with an energy weapon. Anne later gives birth to Tom's daughter Alexis, but his joy is short-lived when Charleston is attacked by a group of soldiers working for a man they call the President of the United States, Benjamin Hathaway. Tom successfully defuses the situation, but loses a member of the Berserkers along the way. Then, with the help of Lt. Fisher, Tom makes contact with Benjamin Hathaway forces and decides to travel to Keystone to meet them along with Cochise, Pope and Bressler. After receiving a somewhat subdued reaction from President Hathaway and his troops, he is later forced to leave Keystone, leaving behind Cochise, and while en route back to Charleston has his plane shot down by an Espheni ship.\n\nTom then finds himself in a dangerous situation when he awakens in the burning wreckage of the plane to find Bressler dead, and Pope unconscious. When Tom saves Pope's life, he then successfully leaves the area with Pope's help, evading Espheni forces along the way. Much to Tom's shock and dismay, when he awakens in the hospital in Charleston he learns from his sons that Anne and Alexis have fled Charleston due to the revelation of her baby being part alien, and she has been abducted by Karen.\n\nDuring Tom's absence, his sons Hal, Ben, Matt and Maggie lead an initial search team to try to locate Anne and Alexis, but later return home to Charleston under the realization that the Espheni have them, and that the best course of action as suggested by Ben was to try and use the Rebel Skitters within the Espheni ranks to try to locate Anne and the baby.\n\nWhen Tom has recovered enough to walk around and resume his duties, he is thrust into further danger when his son Hal, implanted with an Espheni eyebug, attacks him and Peralta as they are discussing the Volm weapon. To his horror, he finds himself abducted by Hal, who demands information on the Volm weapon, and ends up being held hostage in a nearby building which the 2nd Mass later surrounds. Coming to the realization that his son may end up being killed for being the mole, Tom attempts to connect with Hal by bringing up the past and his mother to defuse the situation without any loss of life. As the situation begins to escalate and Hal's demands of Tom to reveal the information on the weapon increase, his other two sons, Ben and Matt, enter the room along with Maggie, bringing the situation to a close. Tom later decides to go along with a dangerous remedy to cure Hal of the eyebug and invites him along on the search for Anne and Alexis.\n\nHe then makes the decision to step down as President of the New United States and offers up the information on the Volm weapon, which has been called Project Orange, to Peralta, knowing that she will be elected the next President, and she is sworn in during his departure from Charleston.\n\nTom then leads a rescue party out of Charleston consisting of himself, Hal, Matt and Ben to locate Anne and Alexis. During their journey they find themselves robbed of their supplies by a local family, the Picketts. After successfully retrieving the supplies, but with the unfortunate loss of one of the family members who had robbed them, they resume their search for Anne and Alexis. Tom later decides to return to the Pickett house to check on their well being, after telling them about Charleston, but is ambushed by several Espheni mechs and skitters.\n\nNow captured by Karen, Tom awakens in a dream world where the invasion has not happened and he and his wife and sons have been living a normal but happy life. As Tom continued to live out this false reality as a college professor, he starts to receive messages from Anne Glass but with no memory of her, the 2nd Mass or of the alien invasion; things around him start to fall apart. When three locations are made exceedingly clear to him during the dream, he later realizes what he has been seeing was not real and awakens inside an Espheni base in Boston. He then discovers that Karen was attempting to manipulate him into revealing what tower the 2nd Mass will attack during their operation. Shortly afterwards Tom is rescued and shoots Karen dead, when he awakens in Charleston and discovers he is still being manipulated by Karen. Finally awakening in the real world, Karen informs him to his despair that she had Anne and Alexis killed. After initially trying to attack Karen, Tom breaks down in tears and is then shown the activation of the Espheni planetary defense grid and is informed that within three months all life on Earth will be lost.\n\nRealizing that he needs to return to Charleston, Tom then jumps from a ledge, evading the Espheni forces in the area and successfully returns to Charleston unharmed. Upon returning to Charleston Tom immediately reveals that Anne and Alexis had been killed, and the vulnerability of the Boston tower to assault. Fueled by a desire for revenge, Tom wants to lead a team once the weapon is ready to be deployed, but before he could act an explosion is felt in the Charleston area and Tom discovers that the Volm complex has been destroyed. After Tom discovers Cochise severely wounded, he helps him to the hospital and after being told his wounds will regenerate if left alone, he orders that he be left alone. When another explosion rocks Charleston, killing many and wounding others, Tom finds himself trapped underground and makes a horrifying discovery as he learns that Lourdes was the mole. After being taunted by a possessed Lourdes, Tom uses a Volm gun and makes an opening for himself and others to escape to the surface with.\n\nWhile on the surface Tom and Cochise discuss the situation with the Volm weapon and come to the conclusion that the Volm weapon was adequately protected from the initial blast and that it should be just be a simple matter of digging it out. He then leads a team along with Cochise, Kadar and several members of the 2nd Mass on a boat with the weapon mounted onto it and attacks and successfully destroys the Boston tower, bringing down the Espheni planetary defense grid along with it. As a result, the Volm successfully land reinforcements on their city-sized ship in the area the tower once stood.\n\nBelieving the battle to be over for now Tom along with the other members of the 2nd Mass celebrate their victory but are left shocked when the Volm reveal their plans to relocate them to Brazil. Strongly opposed to this, Tom makes his feelings clear to the Volm commander who is revealed to be Cochise's father. After a minor disagreement, he is held captive and is visited by the Volm commander and explains that after everything that has happened, he along with the other members of the 2nd Mass wish to continue fighting the Espheni to the end and that he, and they wish to liberate the planet. The Volm commander understands Toms feelings and lets him go, and as the other members of the 2nd Mass are about to be taken away by Cochise and several other Volm, is informed that they are free to go.\n\nThough somewhat concerned that the battle against the Espheni will be a three-way fight, Tom decides to travel back to Charleston along with the rest of the 2nd Mass but along the way is met by Karen, who informs him that the Volm can't be trusted and is later given Anne and Alexis in return as a sign of good faith. When Tom shoots Karen, after the dust had settled he reunites with Anne and Alexis and discovers that Alexis his daughter is now the size of a 6 year old child. To his surprise he witnesses Alexis draw out and destroy the eyebugs inside Lourdes.\n\n23 days later, Tom along with the 2nd Mass arrive back at Charleston, but before he can celebrate the group are attacked by Espheni ships and mechs, and are seemingly ensnared by the Espheni obelisks, Tom is separated from Anne, Lexi, Matt and Ben, and other members of the 2nd Mass.\n\n4 months later, Tom is held in solitary confinement in an Espheni ghetto, a place set up by the Espheni for reasons he does not yet know, to hold prisoners, including Weaver, Pope, Hal, and other members of the 2nd Mass, and people who had been captured. When Weaver is held in a room next to his, Tom informs him that he is working on a plan to escape from the ghetto, and then reveals that he had been leaving confinement to gather more intelligence on the area, and the skitter locations. Fearing the area to be monitored by the Espheni, Tom covers his face before leaving confinement. However his actions which sometimes involved provoking the skitters, were not unnoticed by the Espheni, a single overlord aboard a ship monitoring the ghetto sends a message to an unknown person demanding that the vigilante, which some residents dub 'The Ghost' be handed over, or the residents of the ghetto will be killed.\n\nMeanwhile, Tom learns from Cochise that the Volm had no choice but to leave the Earth, and have left behind several scout teams. He is then informed that the Espheni had set up ghettos all across the planet, for reasons he does not yet know, and that the Espheni are developing a new power source. Fearing the extinction of humanity, Cochise offers Tom words of support, and when Tom requests that he try to find Anne, Lexi, Matt, and Ben, he agrees.\n\nNow freed from solitary confinement along with Weaver, he is then faced with an Espheni speaking through a harnessed child who tells him, along with the Ghettos residents that until the vigilante is handed over, the residents will receive no further food shipments. With their survival now in doubt, Tom discusses the situation with Weaver, who believes Pope may have a supply of food they could use.\n\nMeanwhile, Tom meets up with Hal who tells him of the new escape plan, and together they meet with Dingaan Botha, who informs Tom that he had constructed a Faraday suit which can be used to scale the fence, and that he had escaped from an Espheni camp before. When he also is told of a working radio, he uses it to contact Cochise who tells him that the Espheni power source is offensive in nature, unlike the grid used before, and that he knows where Matt is being held. When Tom requests that he rescue Matt, he agrees.\n\nBuoyed by the news about Matt, Tom decides to dress as the vigilante and hands himself over to the Overlord. Aboard the ship he learns that the Espheni plan to use humanity as hybrid soldiers in a new war, and is presented with a choice to save his family from the transformation, but when the Overlord gives him the choice between extinction or evolution, the ghettos residents dressed the Ghost, launch projectiles against the ship, during the chaos Tom uses the opportunity to study the camps layout and power source. When he later is released by the Overlord, Tom informs Hal and Weaver that he had promised not to resist anymore.\n\nFaced with the news that humanity will be skitterized by the Espheni in the coming days, Tom puts the finishing touches on his escape plan with Dingaan, and then offers him a place among the 2nd Mass when they escape. Later that day, with Pope, Hal, Weaver, Tector and Digaan gathered, Tom, with a scale model of the ghetto in front of him, informs them that he will draw the attention of the ghettos skitter guards while Dingaan scales the fence. He then informs them that Hal will lead the ghettos residents into the tunnels in 15 man groups to avoid suspicion while Pope and Weaver cover for Dingaan, but faced with a skeptical Pope, Tom explains that when he manages to gather the skitters into one area, he will blow the building he was once held in with the explosive charges.\n\nThe next day, Tom meets with an Overlord and a harnessed child and informs them that the deal they had is now off, and that they should surrender, but when the Overlord threatens his life, he attacks it with a flamethrower and severely injures it. With the escape plan now in motion, Tom is now pursued by skitters and Pope is forced to scale the fence when Dingaans hand is injured, meanwhile Hal waits with the ghetto residents in the tunnels. With the fence now down, Tom leads the skitters to the building and blows it up and jumps into the water in triumph. That night, Tom reunites with Hal and the group and then thanks Pope for his part in the escape.\n\nNow on the run from the Espheni and faced with increasing Beamer patrols, Tom arrives at the Volm hideout in an abandoned warehouse and is immediately greeted by Cochise. When Cochise explains that with the help of recon drones they now have Matts location, he decides to set out and rescue him. Weaver explains to Tom that he empathizes with how he must be feeling, and joins him. Tom then leaves Hal in charge of the group and tasks him with gathering supplies and ammunition. Now outside of the re education center, Cochise is forced into a meditative trance after being attacked by a mutated Jeanne Weaver, so Tom leaves him behind.\n\nInside the camp, when the children raise the alarm, Tom is forced to separate from Weaver and is led by Mira to Matts cell. He immediately rescues Matt who is being attacked by Kent Matthews by striking him, and with the help of Mira who distracts the skitters, leaves along with Matt. Shortly afterwards, Tom is reunited with an emotional Weaver who explains to him, Matt and Cochise what had happened with Jeanne. Though unbeknownst to Tom, he is currently being tracked by the scorched Overlord.\n\nAfter 3 days of travel Tom arrives back at the Volm hideout with Matt, Cochise and Weaver, he notices the message left by Hal and takes measures to decipher it, he however is unaware that the Scorched Overlord along with several Skitters are patrolling the warehouse and is forced to make a quick retreat after learning where Hal was headed. Shortly afterwards, Cochise informs Tom that he needs to rejoin his recon team and then leaves. As Tom and the group make their way through the forest, they come across a camp inhabited by 2 men, who introduce themselves as Nick and Cooper, who are brothers. When they tell Tom that they had escaped from the Espheni, he's skeptical and voices his concerns to Weaver.\n\nTom is then abducted by the men who tell him the Espheni have a high price on his head, concerned for Matt, he attempts to talk with Cooper and tells him about how Matt was only 8 when the Espheni invaded. Cooper tells him that he had 2 sons who are now dead, as Tom continues to engage with him, he learns that Nick had caused the death of Coopers sons, which causes Cooper to kill Nick. As Cooper turns to kill Tom, Weaver shoots him dead. That night, he bonds with Matt and tells him about the meaning of family and brothers.\n\nNow in Chinatown, Tom is reunited with his family and immediately asks Anne about Lexi, but before they can talk Lourdes interrupts and tells them that she's in a cocoon. He stops Anne from freeing her and tells her not to act irrationally as it may get Lexi killed. When Anne undergoes memory regression for answers, he spends time by Lexi's side and is joined by Weaver who offers him words of comfort. Later that night, Tom interrupts a 2nd Mass meeting and overhears Pope suggesting Lexi should be killed, he then warns them against acting and is told by Pope that there's clearly a conflict of interest going on. As he leaves, Hal tells him that they have a valid point but he doesn't listen, he tells him of his disgust that he was there. Realizing that people are scared of Lexi and that he may need to use force to protect her, he discusses the situation with Lourdes.\n\nWarned by Ben who stands by his side, Tom is faced with an angry Pope and 2nd Mass members who demand access to Lexi. Tom defuses the situation by telling them should she become a monster, he will deal with her. He then hears from Anne before she puts her hand on the cocoon that Lexi needs her.\n\nWhen Lexi emerges from her cocoon seemingly unchanged, Tom is faced with Lexi's proclamation that she is leaving Chinatown and then voices his concerns to her along with Anne, but she doesn't listen. He watches on as she walks into the crowd gathered outside and is shocked when Lexi kills Lourdes through pity. Believing that the Espheni may have done something to Lexi, Tom turns to Dr. Kadar and learns that she has changed at a cellular level.\n\nFaced with an impending attack from the scorched Overlord, Tom tasks the 2nd Mass with laying traps around Chinatown and to prepare for a ground assault, he tells them that he believes they haven't attacked with Beamers as the Overlord is seeking vengeance against him. That night, the Espheni begin their ground assault and the 2nd Mass is hit with an explosion from a ruptured gas line that kills most of the group. With the survivors now gathered, Tom orders them to evacuate to an underground bomb shelter and tells them that the attack won't stop until the Espheni believe they are dead. But before Tom can evacuate himself, he is faced with tragedy when he discovers that Dr.Kadar has suffered a fatal shrapnel wound. With Dr.Kadar now dead, Tom becomes distressed by the deaths suffered during the attack and turns to Tector and asks him for his rifle to attack the Overlord. Tector however tricks Tom and sends him away before attacking the Overlord himself while dressed as the Ghost and then blows himself up.\n\nWith Chinatown now in ruin, Tom awakens under the rubble unharmed and discovers a distressed Dingaan while attempting to escape. Together they manage to find a crashed Beamer and are able to get inside. Believing that they may be able to use the Beamer to escape, Tom decides to investigate and is implanted with a parasite after touching a panel and tasks Dingaan with removing. However, when he accidentally triggers an onboard missile, Tom shields himself behind a panel along with Dingaan and anxiously awaits the explosion. When Dingaan tells him that the beeping sound reminded him of his wife's heart monitor before she died, Tom comforts him. He is then rescued when the explosion draws the 2nd Mass to them. Later that night, Tom and the 2nd Mass decide to gather around a camp fire to mourn the loss of Tector and Lourdes, and after learning that Ben had given some of his spikes to save Maggie, he then talks with Hal and they both notice a strange pulsating light on the moon.\n\nBelieving the light on the moon to be the Espheni power source, Tom decides that they need to dig the Beamer out of the rubble to use against it, but when he learns that they don't have the tools to do it quickly, Cochise tells him about a Volm supply cache that may hold something of use to help unearth the buried Beamer. He then decides to lead a small team consisting of himself, Anne, Matt, Weaver and Cochise. When Tom and the group arrive at the site Cochise informs him that they will need to wear gasmasks as the air is toxic where the cache is buried, they are then greeted by Mira who tells them that she had escaped the Espheni camp, Matt believes her but Tom is suspicious and ties her up before unearthing the cache. After hearing from Matt that Mira had escaped, Tom is attacked by Kent Matthews and with Annes help, he is able to shoot him dead. With the cache destroyed, Tom decides to head back to Chinatown with the group.\n\nAfter the Beamer is inadvertently brought to life and flown out of the rubble, Tom is faced with uncertainty when the 2nd Mass demand that he should give them a chance to pilot the Beamer on the mission to the moon. Tom is against the idea but is convinced by Anne to give them a vote, and tells them that anyone is free to put their name in contention for the role. That night, with the 2nd Mass gathered, Tom draws Bens name, and his own. He then admits to Anne that he had rigged the draw as he couldn't allow Ben to go without him. The next day, Tom and Ben prepare to enter the Beamer, but are interrupted when Beamers attack. He then watches on as Lexi destroys them.\n\nTom is angered by Lexi's return and she apologizes to him. Tom tells her that he doesn't want anything more to do with her, as she had betrayed both him and the 2nd Mass who he calls his family. Anne convinces him to give her a chance, and he allows her to join him on the mission to the moon. Believing Lexi to be a threat, Hal gives Tom a poison to use on her just in case. When the Beamer leaves the Earths atmosphere, he realizes that the life support system won't be able to maintain them both ways. Lexi suggests to him that they enter a cocoon together until they reach the moon, to which he agrees. However he dreams that he's now back on Earth with the power core destroyed and the Espheni on the back foot and quickly realizes what he is experiencing is not real. Believing Lexi to be the cause, he demands that she release him. When they both have a father-daughter moment and reconcile the issues they once had, they awaken and discover they're now close to the moon.\n\nWhen their Beamer is captured by the Scorched Overlord, Tom decides to board the ship along with Lexi. While inside they are confronted by the Scorched Overlord who attacks Lexi and reveals his plan through Mira who is now harnessed to them both. Tom attacks the Overlord and injects him with a lethal Volm poison which kills him, but before he dies he destroys the ships auto pilot system to prevent them using against the power core. Tom however is told by Lexi to return to the Beamer and is distraught when he hears what he believes to be Lexi saying goodbye, she explains to him that as the auto pilot is destroyed she has no choice but to pilot the ship to destroy the core. Tom reluctantly says goodbye to Lexi, but they are attacked by a squadron of Beamers and are rescued by the Volm. Tom watches on as Lexi destroys the power core, but the explosion sends his Beamer spiraling into space out of control. He then awakens on a bed aboard an unknown spaceship and hears what he believes to be an old radio broadcast, immediately he decides to look around the room and realizes he's in space. He is then interrupted when an unknown alien makes their presence known, to which Tom responds with familiarity.\n\nTom is rescued from space by the Espheni's ancient enemy, the Dornia who tell him to find his inner warrior to defeat the Espheni once and for all before returning him to Earth. Guided by the Dornia who communicates with him in the image of his deceased wife Rebecca Mason, Tom rallies all the militias across the world into a global resistance to attack the Espheni bases and retake the planet. For his part, Tom leads a march on Washington, D.C.. After an encounter with a militia running a witch hunt under the leadership of an Espheni clone, Tom learns of the existence of an Espheni queen when Ben uses an Espheni communications device. Shortly afterwards, Tom is approached by the Dornia who offer him a bioweapon that when used on the Espheni queen, will wipe the race out and free the Earth. Tom takes the weapon and has Anne and resistance fighter Marty work on modifying it so it's non-lethal to humans, but is confronted by the possible return of his daughter Alexis. Tom learns that the Espheni queen only comes to a planet when victory is certain and the Espheni are moving from invasion to occupation. Alexis also informs him that the Espheni have been to Earth before. Alexis, revealed to be an Espheni clone, attacks Tom, but is killed by Ben with the Dornia bioweapon before she can kill him. The next day, Tom leads an attack on Washington, D.C., having the militias attack an impenetrable defensive wall while he leads a strike team through the city's service tunnels to reach the queen herself. Tom is separated from the rest of the team by an explosion, but continues on alone and confronts the queen face to face in the ruins of the Lincoln Memorial. The queen explains to Tom that the invasion is revenge for the death of her daughter at the hands of humanity 1,500 years ago in another failed invasion. The queen starts draining Tom's blood, but he takes advantage of this and infects himself with the Dornia bioweapon. Thanks to the modifications Anne and Marty made to it, Tom is immune to the weapon's effects, but the virus passes through his blood into the Espheni queen, killing her. The bioweapon spreads through the queen's connection to her species and the Espheni are wiped out by the bioweapon, freeing Earth and humanity. Shortly afterwards, Tom learns that Anne has died and desperately takes her to the Dornia for help. As Tom awaits her return, a mortally injured John Pope, who has been seeking revenge against Tom, arrives but takes no pleasure in Tom's pain and lays down his weapon. Tom refuses to kill Pope since the war is over and he no longer has to kill anyone. Pope dies of his wounds and Anne is returned to Tom alive. Months later, Anne is pregnant with their second child and Tom rejects offers to be the new leader of a united humanity, saying that he is just a teacher. As humanity gathers at the rebuilt Lincoln Memorial, Tom gives a speech on how the Espheni invasion gave them a second chance as a species.\n\nNoah Wyle was announced as the lead in the series in June 2009.\nHe has previously worked with TNT on \"The Librarian\" films and was sent scripts for various shows on their network. Wyle said part of the reason he chose the part was to gain credibility from his children. He said \"...with the birth of my kids, I started to really look at my career through their eyes more than my own, so that does dictate choice, steering me toward certain things and away from other things.\" He also decided to do it as he could relate with his character, stating \"I identified with Tom's devotion to his sons, and admired his sense of social duty.\"\nSpielberg wanted Wyle for the role because he knew him from his previous series \"ER\", which Spielberg's company produced. He had wanted Wyle to appear in his 1998 film \"Saving Private Ryan\" but due to scheduling conflicts, he was unable to star. Spielberg stated that he was determined to work with him again.\n\nWyle was nominated for a Saturn Award in the category for Best Actor in Television.\n"}
{"id": "1227486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227486", "title": "United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc.", "text": "United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc.\n\nUnited States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc., 334 U.S. 131 (1948), (also known as the Hollywood Antitrust Case of 1948, the Paramount Case, the Paramount Decision or the Paramount Decree) was a landmark United States Supreme Court antitrust case that decided the fate of movie studios owning their own theatres and holding exclusivity rights on which theatres would show their films. It would also change the way Hollywood movies were produced, distributed, and exhibited. The Court held in this case that the existing distribution scheme was in violation of the antitrust laws of the United States, which prohibit certain exclusive dealing arrangements.\n\nThe case is important both in U.S. antitrust law and film history. In the former, it remains a landmark decision in vertical integration cases; in the latter, it is responsible for putting an end to the old Hollywood studio system.\n\nThe legal issues originated in the silent era, when the Federal Trade Commission began investigating film companies for potential violations under the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890.\n\nThe major film studios owned the theaters where their motion pictures were shown, either in partnerships or outright. Thus specific theater chains showed only the films produced by the studio that owned them. The studios created the films, had the writers, directors, producers and actors on staff (under contract), owned the film processing and laboratories, created the prints and distributed them through the theaters that they owned: In other words, the studios were vertically integrated, creating a de facto oligopoly. By 1945, the studios owned either partially or outright 17% of the theaters in the country, accounting for 45% of the film-rental revenue.\n\nUltimately, this issue of the studios' allegedly illegal trade practices led to all the major movie studios being sued in 1938 by the U.S. Department of Justice. As the largest studio, Paramount was the primary defendant, but all of the other Big Five (Loew's (MGM), Warner Bros., 20th Century Fox, RKO Pictures) and Little Three (Universal Studios, Columbia Pictures, United Artists) were named, as well as numerous subsidiaries and executives from each company. Separate cases were also filed against large independent chains, including the 148-theater Schine.\n\nThe federal government's case was settled with a consent decree in 1940, which allowed the government to reinstate the lawsuit if, by November 1943, it had not seen a satisfactory level of compliance. Among other requirements, the consent decree included the following conditions:\nThe studios did not fully implement the consent decree, and in 1942 with Allied Theatre Owners proposed an alternate \"Unity Plan\". They proposed booking larger blocks of theatres with the caveat of allowing theaters to reject films. This led to the formation of the Society of Independent Motion Picture Producers (SIMPP), which also filed a lawsuit against Paramount Detroit Theaters, the first major lawsuit of producers against exhibitors. The government declined the Unity proposal and reinstated the 1943 lawsuit. The case went to trial on October 8, 1945, one month and six days after the end of World War II. The case was decided in favor of the studios, and the government immediately appealed.\n\nThe case reached the U.S. Supreme Court in 1948; their verdict went against the movie studios, forcing all of them to divest themselves of their movie theater chains. This, coupled with the advent of television and the attendant drop in movie ticket sales, brought about a severe slump in the movie business, a slump that would not be reversed until 1972, with the release of \"The Godfather\", the first modern blockbuster.\n\nThe \"Paramount\" decision is a bedrock of corporate antitrust law, and as such is cited in most cases where issues of vertical integration play a prominent role in restricting fair trade.\n\nThe Court ruled 7-1 in the government's favor, affirming much of the consent decree (Justice Robert H. Jackson took no part in the proceedings). William O. Douglas delivered the Court's opinion, with Felix Frankfurter dissenting in part, arguing the Court should have left all of the decree intact but its arbitration provisions.\n\nDouglas's opinion reiterated the facts and history of the case and reviewed the District Court's opinion, agreeing that its conclusion was \"incontestable\". He considered five different trade practices addressed by the consent decree:\n\n\nDouglas let stand the District Court's sevenfold test for when a clearance agreement was a restraint of trade, as he agreed they had a legitimate purpose. Pooling agreements and joint ownership, he agreed, were \"bald efforts to substitute monopoly for competition ... Clearer restraints of trade are difficult to imagine.\" He allowed, however, that courts could consider how an interest in an exhibitor was acquired and sent some other issues back to the District Court for further inquiry and resolution. He set aside the lower court findings on franchises so that they might be reconsidered from the perspective of allowing competitive bidding. On the block booking question, he rejected the studios' argument that it was necessary to profit from their copyrights: \"The copyright law, like the patent statutes, makes reward to the owner a secondary consideration\". The prohibitions on discrimination he let stand entirely.\n\nFrankfurter took exception to the extent to which his brethren had agreed with the studios that the District Court had not adequately explored the underlying facts in affirming the consent decree. He pointed to another recent Court decision, \"International Salt Co. v. United States\" that lower courts are the proper place for such findings of fact, to be deferred to by higher courts. Also, he reminded the Court that the District Court had spent fifteen months considering the case and reviewed almost 4,000 pages of documentary evidence: \"I cannot bring myself to conclude that the product of such a painstaking process of adjudication as to a decree appropriate for such a complicated situation as this record discloses was an abuse of discretion.\" He would have modified the District Court decision only to permit the use of arbitration to resolve disputes.\n\nMovie studios previously charged low rents to exhibitors because they were owned by the studio. When the studios were forced to sell their theaters, the result was higher rental rates charged to exhibitors (rising from an average of approximately 35% to its current level of approximately 50%), so the studios could recoup their expenses. The inability to block-book an entire year's worth of movies caused studios to be more selective in the movies they made, resulting in higher production costs and dramatically fewer movies made. This caused studios to further raise the rates they charged theaters, since the volume of movies fell.\n\nThe court orders forcing the separation of motion picture production and exhibition companies are commonly referred to as the Paramount Decrees. Paramount Pictures Inc. was forced to split into two companies: the film company Paramount Pictures Corp. and the theater chain (United Paramount Theaters) which merged in 1953 with the American Broadcasting Company.\n\nConsequences of the decision include:\n\nFollowing the decision, and with the rise of television, the major studios felt that the loss of their exclusive theatre arrangements would reduce the opportunity to re-release product from their film libraries. Paramount, for example, sold its pre-1950 sound feature film library to MCA, which created EMKA (today Universal Television) to manage this library. Other studios, such as 20th Century Fox or Warner Bros., also sold or leased their classic back catalogs to other companies such as Associated Artists Productions or National Telefilm Associates. By contrast, Walt Disney believed his film library was much more valuable than RKO had estimated it to be; in 1953, he formed a holding company that held rights to work he did prior to 1953 as well as distributed new material from his studio—that company became its own in-house distribution unit, Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. The growth of television in subsequent years has resulted in these supposedly \"worthless\" films earning billions of dollars in rentals from television stations and networks.\n\n"}
{"id": "30102608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30102608", "title": "Vladimir Napolskikh", "text": "Vladimir Napolskikh\n\nVladimir Vladimirovich Napolskikh (, born 1 April 1963, Izhevsk, USSR) is a Russian ethnographer, ethnologist, ethnohistorian, Finno-Ugrist and linguist. Doctor of Historical Sciences (1992), Professor at Udmurt State University. Member of the «Societas Uralo-Altaica» since 2000. Corresponding Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences since 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23958340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23958340", "title": "Yahya of Antioch", "text": "Yahya of Antioch\n\nYahya of Antioch, full name Yaḥya ibn Saʿīd al-Anṭākī (Ar. يحيى بن سعيد الأنطاكي), was a Melkite Christian physician and historian of the 11th century.\n\nHe was most likely born in Fatimid Egypt. He became a physician, but the anti-Christian pogroms of Caliph Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah (r. 996–1021) forced him to flee to Byzantine-held Antioch.\n\nHis chief work is a continuation of Eutychius' \"Annals\", stretching from 938 to 1034. Drawing on a variety of sources, his history deals with events in the Byzantine Empire, Egypt, as well as Bulgaria and the Kievan Rus'. Whilst in Antioch, he also wrote theological works in defence of Christianity and refutations of Islam and Judaism. He died ca. 1066. \n\nHis history was published, edited and translated by I. Kratchkovsky and A. Vasiliev into French in Volumes 18, 24, and 47 of the \"Patrologia Orientalis\", and into Italian.\n\n"}
