{"id": "4658144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4658144", "title": "25 Minutes to Go", "text": "25 Minutes to Go\n\n\"25 Minutes to Go\" is a song by Shel Silverstein, from his 1962 album \"Inside Folk Songs\".\n\nThe song is literally \"gallows humor\", as it is sung by a man awaiting his own execution by hanging. Each verse consists of two lines, of which the first line is anything from humorous to poignant, and the second line is a minute-by-minute countdown.\n\nThe song is similar in concept to Silverstein's children's song \"Boa Constrictor\": It presents the point of view of someone who is experiencing a calamity in \"real time,\" composing and singing as the events unfold, with a fatal conclusion. \"Boa Constrictor\", like \"25 Minutes to Go\", appeared on Silverstein's 1962 album \"Inside Folk Songs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9423439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9423439", "title": "Alcuin Society", "text": "Alcuin Society\n\nA voluntary association established in 1965 by Geoff Spencer, the Alcuin Society is a non-profit organisation founded for the book arts. It is located in Canada. It should not be confused with the Alcuin Club, an Anglican publishing society. \n\nAmong the other six founding members is Basil Stuart-Stubbs.\n\nThe society is named after the Alcuin of York.\n\nSince 1996, the society has awarded an Annual Award for Excellence in Book Design. In 2007, the society started awarding the Robert R. Reid Award and Medal for lifetime achievement or extraordinary contributions to the book arts in Canada. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6352447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6352447", "title": "Artificial grammar learning", "text": "Artificial grammar learning\n\nArtificial grammar learning (AGL) is a paradigm of study within cognitive psychology and linguistics. Its goal is to investigate the processes that underlie human language learning by testing subjects' ability to learn a made-up grammar in a laboratory setting. It was developed to evaluate the processes of human language learning but has also been utilized to study implicit learning in a more general sense. The area of interest is typically the subjects' ability to detect patterns and statistical regularities during a training phase and then use their new knowledge of those patterns in a testing phase. The testing phase can either use the symbols or sounds used in the training phase or transfer the patterns to another set of symbols or sounds as surface structure.\n\nMany researchers propose that the rules of the artificial grammar are learned on an implicit level since the rules of the grammar are never explicitly presented to the participants. The paradigm has also recently been utilized for other areas of research such as language learning aptitude, structural priming and to investigate which brain structures are involved in syntax acquisition and implicit learning.\n\nApart from humans, the paradigm has also been used to investigate pattern learning in other species, e.g. cottontop tamarins and starlings.\n\nMore than half a century ago George A. Miller established the paradigm of artificial grammar learning in order to investigate the influence of explicit grammar structures on human learning, he designed a grammar model of letters with different sequences. His research demonstrated that it was easier to remember a structured grammar sequence than a random sequence of letters. His explanation was that learners could identify the common characteristics between learned sequences and accordingly encode them to a memory set. He predicted that subjects could identify which letters will most likely appear together as a sequence repeatedly and which letters would not and that the subjects would use this information to form memory sets. Those memory sets served participants as a strategy later on during their memory tests.\n\nReber doubted Miller's explanation. He claimed that if participants could encode the grammar rules as productive memory sets, then they should be able to verbalize their strategy in detail. He conducted research that led to the development of the modern AGL paradigm. This research used a synthetic grammar learning model to test implicit learning. AGL became the most used and tested model in the field. As in the original paradigm developed by Miller, participants were asked to memorize a list of letter strings which were created from an artificial grammar rule model. It was only during the test phase that participants were told that there was a set of rules behind the letter sequences they memorized. They were then instructed to categorize new letter strings based on the same set of rules which they had not previously been exposed to. They classified new letter strings as \"grammatical\" (constructed from the grammar rule), vs. \"randomly constructed\" sequences. If subjects correctly sorted the new strings above chance level, it could be inferred that subjects had acquired the grammatical rule structure without any explicit instruction of the rules. Reber found that participants sorted out new strings above chance level. While they reported using strategies during the sorting task, they could not actually verbalize those strategies. Subjects could identify which strings were grammatically correct but could not identify the rules that composed grammatical strings.\n\nThis research was replicated and expanded upon by many others. The conclusions of most of these studies were congruent with Reber's hypothesis: the implicit learning process was done with no intentional learning strategies. These studies also identified common characteristics for the implicitly acquired knowledge:\n\n\nThe modern AGL paradigm can be used to investigate explicit and implicit learning, although it is most often used to test implicit learning. In a typical AGL experiment, participants are required to memorize strings of letters previously generated by a specific grammar. The length of the strings usually ranges from 2-9 letters per string. An example of such a grammar is shown in figure 1.\n\nFigure 1: Example of an artificial grammar rule\n\nIn order to compose a grammatically \"ruleful\" string of letters, according to the predetermined grammar rule, a subject must follow the rules for the pairing of letters as represented in the model (figure 1). When observing a violation of the grammatical rule system that composes the string, it is considered an \"unruleful\" or randomly constructed string.\n\nIn the case of a standard AGL implicit learning task, subjects are not told that the strings are based on a specific grammar. Instead, they are simply given the task to memorize the letter strings for a memory. After the learning phase, subjects are told that the letter strings presented during the learning phase were based on specific rules, but are not explicitly told what the rules are. During a test phase, the subjects are instructed to categorize new letter strings as \"ruleful\" or \"unruleful\". The dependent variable usually measured is the percentage of correctly categorized strings. Implicit learning is considered to be successful when the percentage of correctly sorted strings is significantly higher than chance level. If this significant difference is found, it indicates the existence of a learning process that is more involved than memorizing the presented letter strings.\n\nThe mechanism behind the implicit learning that is hypothesized to occur while people engage in artificial grammar learning is statistical learning or, more specifically, Bayesian learning. Bayesian learning takes into account types of biases or \"prior probability distributions\" individuals have that contribute to the outcome of implicit learning tasks. These biases can be thought of as a probability distribution that contains the probability that each possible hypothesis is likely to be correct. Due to the structure of the Bayesian model, the inferences output by the model are in the form of a probability distribution rather than a single most probable event. This output distribution is a \"posterior probability distribution\". The posterior probability of each hypothesis in the original distribution is the probability of the hypothesis being true given the data and the probability of data given the hypothesis is true.\nThis Bayesian model for learning is fundamental for understanding the pattern detection process involved in implicit learning and, therefore, the mechanisms that underlie the acquisition of artificial grammar learning rules. It is hypothesized that the implicit learning of grammar involves predicting co-occurrences of certain words in a certain order. For example, \"the dog chased the ball\" is a sentence that can be learned as grammatically correct on an implicit level due to the high co-occurrence of \"chase\" being one of the words to follow \"dog\". A sentence like \"the dog cat the ball\" is implicitly recognized as grammatically incorrect due to the lack of utterances that contain those words paired in that specific order. This process is important for teasing apart thematic roles and parts of speech in grammatical processing (see grammar). While the labeling of the thematic roles and parts of speech is explicit, the identification of words and parts of speech is implicit.\n\nTraditional approaches to AGL claim that the stored knowledge obtained during the learning phase is abstract. Other approaches argue that this stored knowledge is concrete and consists of exemplars of strings encountered during the learning phase or \"chunks\" of these exemplars. In any case, it is assumed that the information stored in memory is retrieved in the test phase and is used to aid decisions about letter strings. \n3 main approaches attempt to explain the AGL phenomena:\n\nResearch with amnesia patients suggests the \"Dual Factor approach\" may be the most accurate model. A series of experiments with amnesiac patients support the idea that AGL involves both abstract concepts and concrete exemplars. Amnesiacs were able to classify stimuli as \"grammatical\" vs. \"randomly constructed\" just as well as participants in the control group. While able to successfully complete the task, amnesiacs were not able to explicitly recall grammatical \"chunks\" of the letter sequence while the control group was able to explicitly recall them. When performing the task with the same grammar rules but a different sequence of letters than those that they were previously tested on, both amnesiacs and the control group were able to complete the task (although performance was better when the task was completed using the same set of letters used for training). The results of the experiment support the dual factor approach to artificial grammar learning in that people use abstract information to learn rules for grammars and use concrete, exemplar-specific memory for chunks. Since the amnesiacs were unable to store specific \"chunks\" in memory, they completed the task using an abstract set of rules. The control group was able to store these specific chunks in memory and (as evidenced by recall) did store these examples in memory for later reference.\n\nAGL research has been criticized due to the \"automatic question\": Is AGL considered to be an automatic process? During encoding (see encoding (memory)), performance can be automatic in the sense of occurring without conscious monitoring (without conscious guidance by the performer’s intentions). In the case of AGL, it was claimed that implicit learning is an automatic process due to the fact that it is done with no intention of learning a specific grammar rule. This complies with the classic definition of an \"automatic process\" as a fast, unconscious, effortless process that may start unintentionally. When aroused, it continues until it is over without the ability to stop or ignore its consequences. This definition has been challenged many times. Alternative definitions for automatic process have been given. Reber's presumption that AGL is automatic could be problematic by implying that an unintentional process is an automatic process in its essence. \nWhen focusing on AGL tests, a few issues need to be addressed. The process is complex and contains encoding and recall or retrieval. Both encoding and retrieval could be interpreted as automatic processes since what was encoded during the learning stage is not necessary for the task intentionally performed during the test stage. Researchers need to differentiate between implicitness as referring to the process of learning or knowledge encoding and also as referring to performance during the test phase or knowledge retrieval. Knowledge encoded during training may include many aspects of the presented stimuli (whole strings, relations among elements, etc.). The contribution of the various components to performance depends on both the specific instruction in the acquisition phase and the requirements of the retrieval task. Therefore, the instructions on every phase are important in order to determine whether or not each stage will require automatic processing. Each phase should be evaluated for automaticity separately.\n\nOne hypothesis that contradicts the automaticity of AGL is the \"mere exposure effect\". The mere exposure effect is increased affect towards a stimulus that is the result of nonreinforced, repeated exposure to the stimulus. Results from over 200 experiments on this effect indicate that there is a positive relationship between mean \"goodness\" rating and frequency of stimulus exposure. Stimuli for these experiments included line drawings, polygons and nonsense words (which are types of stimuli used in AGL research). These experiments exposed participants to each stimulus up to 25 times. Following each exposure participants were asked to rate the degree to which each stimulus suggested \"good\" vs. \"bad\" affect on a 7-point scale. In addition to the main pattern of results, it was also found in several experiments that participants rated higher positive affect for previously exposed items than for novel items. Since implicit cognition should not reference previous study episodes, the effects on affect ratings should not have been observed if processing of this stimuli is truly implicit. The results of these experiments suggests that different categorization of the strings may occur due to differences in affect associated with the strings and not due to implicitly learned grammar rules.\n\nSince the advent of computers and artificial intelligence, computer programs have been adapted that attempt to simulate the implicit learning process observed in the AGL paradigm. The AI programs first adapted to simulate both natural and artificial grammar learning used the following basic structure:\n\n\n\nAn early model for AI grammar learning is Wolff's SNPR System. The program acquires a series of letters with no pauses or punctuation between words and sentences. The program then examines the string in subsets and looks for common sequences of symbols and defines \"chunks\" in terms of these sequences (these chunks are akin to the exemplar-specific chunks described for AGL). As the model acquires these chunks through exposure, the chunks begin to replace the sequences of unbroken letters. When a chunk precedes or follows a common chunk, then the model determines disjunctive classes in terms of the first set. For example, when the model encounters \"the-dog-chased\" and \"the-cat-chased\" it classifies \"dog\" and \"cat\" as being members of the same class since they both precede \"chase\". While the model sorts chunks into classes, it does explicitly define these groups (e.g., noun, verb). Early AI models of grammar learning such as these ignored the importance of negative instances of grammar's effect on grammar acquisition and were also lacking in the ability to connect grammatical rules to pragmatics and semantics. Newer models have attempted to factor these details in.\nThe Unified Model attempts to take both of these factors into account. The model breaks down grammar according to \"cues\". Languages mark case roles using five possible cue types: word order, case marking, agreement, intonation and verb-based expectation (see grammar). The influence that each cue has over a language's grammar is determined by its \"cue strength\" and \"cue validity\". Both of these values are determined using the same formula, except that cue strength is defined through experimental results and cue validity is defined through corpus counts from language databases. The formula for cue strength/validity is as follows:\n\nCue availability is the proportion of times that the cue is available over the times that it is needed. Cue reliability is the proportion of times that the cue is correct over the total occurrences of the cue. By incorporating cue reliability along with cue availability, The Unified Model is able to account for the effects of negative instances of grammar since it takes accuracy and not just frequency into account. As a result, this also accounts for the semantic and pragmatic information since cues that do not produce grammar in the appropriate context will have low cue strength and cue validity. While MacWhinney's model also simulates natural grammar learning, it attempts to model the implicit learning processes observed in the AGL paradigm.\n\nContemporary studies with AGL have attempted to identify which structures are involved in the acquisition of grammar and implicit learning. Agrammatic aphasic patients (see Agrammatism) were tested with the AGL paradigm. The results show that breakdown of language in agrammatic aphasia is associated with an impairment in artificial grammar learning, indicating damage to domain-general neural mechanisms sub serving both language and sequential learning.\nDe Vries, Barth, Maiworm, Knecht, Zwitserlood & Flöel found that electrical stimulation of Broca's area enhances implicit learning of an artificial grammar. Direct current stimulation may facilitate acquisition of grammatical knowledge, a finding of potential interest for rehabilitation of aphasia.\nPetersson, Vasiliki & Hagoort, examine the neurobiological correlates of syntax, the processing of structured sequences, by comparing fMRI results on artificial and natural language syntax. They argue that the \"Chomsky hierarchy\" is not directly relevant for neurobiological systems through AGL testing.\n\n"}
{"id": "36433624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36433624", "title": "Association for the Protection of the Lebanese Heritage", "text": "Association for the Protection of the Lebanese Heritage\n\nThe Association for the Protection of the Lebanese Heritage or APLH is a cultural heritage, non-governmental organization based in Zouk Mosbeh, Keserwan District of Mount Lebanon, Lebanon.\n\nThe association was originally formed in March 2010 by a group of activists on Facebook, officially registered with the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities on 13 July 2010. The permit number of the association is 1764. The association aims to preserve and promote historical, cultural and urban heritage within Lebanon (including public spaces), which has come under increased threat of destruction through rampant urbanization, as all are viewed as thoroughly connected to protect Lebanese society by preserving its history and identity.\n\nAs one of its first activities, the association organized a march and invited fellow activists Save Beirut Heritage to join the event in Gemmayze in September 2010 to protest and point out all the sites where heritage buildings had been destroyed. This candlelight march was followed by several initiatives, which included petitions, various awareness events and participation in conferences. In 2011, the APLH organized a billboard campaign in Beirut with help from Pikasso, L'Hôte Libanais, and Mr Farid Chehab, the founder of advertising agency H&C Leo Burnett. During the launch of the campaign in Beirut, the APLH president Pascale Ingea represented Lebanon at an international forum called “Urban Transformations, Creative Ecosystems and Social Cohesion, European Cultural Policies between Crisis and Development” in Ravello, Italy. The APLH also launched the idea of a community service day, to encourage citizens to be more environmentally responsible. A cleaning day was organized at the Maameltein Roman bridge which was covered by the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation on its program \"Helwa Beirut\". Since 2012 the APLH saw most of its efforts focused on public demonstrations, scientific research, technical studies, legal complaints and lawsuits to protest and protect such archaeological sites as the Roman Hippodrome of Beirut, the Roman Theater of Beirutand site BEY194; slip ways for Phoenician ships, known as the alleged 2nd Phoenician port of Beirut and the Early Bronze Age (c.3200-2400 BC) Canaanite city at Tell Fadous – Kfardebian / Batroun - North Lebanon, as well as traditional buildings like “Medawar Villa” known as “Amin Maalouf House”, and to face inappropriate urban projects like “Fouad Boutros Highway”, with aiming to protect green areas like “Jesuit Public Garden” and marine public zones like “Daliet El Raouche” and “Ramlet El Baida”.\n\nThe current president of the association is Pascale Ingea with Nadine Maatouk-Haddad as current vice-president, Josef Haddad as current secretary and Mireille Haddad as current accountant. Along with Ingea and Haddad, Jad Mhanna was also a founding member and Raja Noujaim, sites officer acts as an official APLH representative.\n\nInterviewed by the Daily Star (Lebanon), Ingea stressed the non-partisan nature of the association, saying \"““The contractors have a lot of power” and “there’s a lot of politics involved,”\". Speaking of the challenges facing the conservation of Lebanese heritage sites, she added \"“Culture must lead to the development of the city: In any other country of the world it is unacceptable just to cut out archaeology. It’s important that we Lebanese know that we have voices, and that we recognize that we cannot allow our history and our identity to disappear in this way.”\"\n\nOn October 2, 2015 the APLH launched its first media-book detailing the history of the Chehab Palace. The palace which became in the late 1950s the Spanish Embassy in Beirut, represents an important part of the Lebanese heritage. The Mediabook, entitled Palais Chehab was produced with help from the Spanish Embassy in Beirut and published in house by the APLH through its editorial branch, Chroniques Du Liban.\n\nFacing the systematic destruction of Lebanese Heritage and the deliberate procrastination in voting\na heritage protection Law in the Lebanese Parliament, the APLH devised the APLH Heritage Crowdmap:a free online site map of the Lebanese territory linked to google earth, and which enables any citizen to register\nundocumented Lebanese Heritage sites in their vicinity, as well as alert the APLH about illegal demolitions.\nAll entries are then moderated and approved by the APLH prior to going online. The APLH Heritage Crowdmap\nis an innovation on the Lebanese and Middle Eastern scale, allowing the safeguarding of Lebanese memory\n(as archaeology and traditional buildings) in the wake of the deliberate corruption and lack of political will\nendangering Lebanese Cultural and Historical Identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "50544789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50544789", "title": "Bhoja II (Paramara dynasty)", "text": "Bhoja II (Paramara dynasty)\n\nBhoja II was a 13th-century king of the Paramara dynasty in central India. He succeeded Arjuna II as the king of Dhara in Malwa region.\n\nAccording to \"Hammira Mahakavya\", written by the Jain poet Nayachandra Suri, the Chahmana ruler Hammira defeated Arjuna of Sarasapura and Bhoja of Dhara. Based on this, R. C. Majumdar concluded that Hammira must have invaded Malwa twice: once during the reign of Arjuna II, and again, during the reign of Bhoja II. Because Hammira ascended the Chauhan throne during 1282-83, Bhoja must have ascended the Paramara throne sometime after 1283 CE.\n\nPratipal Bhatia, on the other hand, speculates that Arjuna II's minister Goga-deva rebelled against him, and put Bhoja II on the throne of Dhara as a titular king. The 16th-century historian Firishta describes Goga as the \"Raja of Malwa\". According to Bhatia's theory, Goga-deva became the \"de facto\" independent ruler of one part of the Paramara kingdom, while Arjuna II continued to control another part.\n\nBhoja II was succeeded by Mahlakadeva.\n\n"}
{"id": "5663485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5663485", "title": "Book of Henryków", "text": "Book of Henryków\n\nThe Book of Henryków (, ) is a Latin chronicle of the Cistercian abbey in Henryków in Lower Silesia. Originally created as a registry of belongings looted during the Mongol raids of 1241, with time it was extended to include the history of the monastery. It is notable as the earliest document to include a sentence written entirely in what can be interpreted as an Old Polish language Currently the book is on exhibition in the Archdiocesan Museum in Wrocław. October 9, 2015 \"Book of Henryków\" entered in the list of UNESCO \"Memory of the World\".\n\nThe first part of the 100-page-long book is devoted to the early history of the abbey, from its foundation by Henry the Bearded in 1227 until 1259. The second part includes the later history until 1310. In the record for 1270 a settler from the nearby village is reported to say to his wife \"Day, ut ia pobrusa, a ti poziwai\", which could be roughly translated as \"Let me, I shall grind, and you take a rest\".\n\nThe circumstances under which this sentence was written closely reflected the cultural and literary conditions in Poland in the first centuries of its national existence. It appeared in a Latin chronicle, written by a German abbot. The man who reportedly uttered the sentence almost one hundred years earlier was Bogwal, a Czech (Bogwalus Boemus), a local settler and subject of Bolesław the Tall, as he felt compassion for his local wife, who \"very often stood grinding by the quern-stone\". The local village, Brukalice, came to be named after him.\n\n\"Bogwali uxor stabat, ad molam molendo. Cui vir suus idem Bogwalus, compassus dixit: Sine, ut ego etiam molam. Hoc est in polonico: Day, ut ia pobrusa, a ti poziwai.\" - \"Book of Henryków\" (Liber fundationis claustri Sancte Marie Virginis in Henrichow) 1270\n\nThe medieval recorder of this phrase, the Cistercian monk Peter of the Henryków monastery, noted that \"Hoc est in polonico\" (\"This is in Polish\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22515734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22515734", "title": "Cognitive valence theory", "text": "Cognitive valence theory\n\nCognitive valence theory (CVT) is a theoretical framework that describes and explains the process of intimacy exchange within a dyad relationship. Peter A. Andersen, PhD created the cognitive valence theory to answer questions regarding intimacy relationships among colleagues, close friends and intimate friends, married couples and family members. Intimacy or immediacy behavior is that behavior that provides closeness or distance within a dyad relationship. Closeness projects a positive feeling in a relationship, and distance projects a negative feeling within a relationship. Intimacy or immediacy behavior can be \"negatively valenced\" or \"positively valenced\". Valence, associated with physics, is used here to describe the degree of negativity or positivity in expected information. If your partner perceives your actions as negative, then the interaction may repel your partner away from you. If your partner perceives your actions as positive, then the interaction may be accepted and may encourage closeness. Affection and intimacy promotes positive valence in a relationship. CVT uses non-verbal and verbal communications criteria to analyze behavioral situations.\n\nCVT focuses on how intimate relationships are initiated and why only a few relationships are extended past initial contact. CVT employs six factors or schemata to explain verbal and non-verbal intimacy behaviors, interpersonal perceptions, physiological arousal, social cognition and relational outcomes within a specified relationship. CVT utilizes six types of schemata that regulate interpersonal interaction: culture, personality, interpersonal valence, situation, state, and the relationship. Each schema explores intimacy or immediacy behavior when interlaced with human emotion. CVT focuses on these six schemata in relations to moderate levels of arousal in human emotions. Moderate levels of arousal are acceptable in a dyad relationship, but high levels of arousal may cause undue excitement, panic, fear, anger and disorientation.\n\nNonverbal communication is the process of communications by sending and receiving messages without speaking. Intimate relations may be affected by the use of nonverbal communications. Nonverbal communications are transmitted through messaging that utilizes haptic communications (touching, hugs, kisses and caressing someone); body language (physical appearance, posture, gestures and eye contact); oculesics (or eye behavior, including pupil dilation); kinesics (facial expressions and receptive contact from others); and chronemics (time spent with someone else or waiting for someone). All these nonverbal behaviors can affect intimacy or immediacy within a relationship.\n\nVerbal communication or dialogue communications also plays an important part in a dyad relationship. While nonverbal communication provides a forum conducive to wordless conversation, verbal conversation can provide the monologue or dialogue to vocally express personal feelings, emotions and supplement nonverbal actions. However, research has shown that only 7% of all communications is directly related to verbal communications. Research further reports that 38% of communications are by the tone of voice and 55% of communication is determined by body language—posture, gestures and eye contact.\n\nNegative valence behavior is nonverbal communication transmission of a behavioral feeling or emotion received in a negative manner. The receiver perceives the negative transmission and may repel your contact or interaction. As in physics, negative particles repel which may cause the receiver of the transmission or communication to avoid your contact. As the example stated above, initial contact of noticing another person in the grocery store or gas station may not be returned, through an acknowledgement of the initiator’s smile or gesture or the gesture of acknowledgement may purport a stare, frown or other look suggesting “leave me alone” or “not interested.” Intimacy or immediacy may be detrimental to a relationship if that immediacy is negatively accepted by the receiver.\n\nPositive valence behavior is another non-verbal transmission of a behavioral feeling or emotion from one person to another and received in a positive manner. The receiver perceives the positive transmission and may be attracted to that person. Positive behavior may affect intimacy or immediacy within the dyad relationship, but this positive behavior must be recognized and acknowledged by the receiver or partner. Initial contact within an impending dyad relationship may be as simple as noticing another person in a grocery store or gas station. A first look or glance from the initiator may be returned with a smile or gesture of acknowledgement by the receiver. This gesture may then be returned to the initiator as a positive, and further contact may be encouraged.\n\nAndersen (1993, Planap, 1985) suggests that cognitive schemata or our social knowledge help interpret various social interactions. CVT incorporates these six schemata into the regulation or guidance of interpersonal interaction.\n\nCulture is the total expression of one’s behavior patterns, arts, values, goals, and practices of a population or community. Geertz (1973) further argues “…this school of thought holds that culture is composed of psychological structures by means of which individuals or groups of individuals guide their behavior”. Culture plays a definitive role in the formation of human behavior. In some cultures, it is permissible to hold hands; other cultures this open act of compassion is forbidden. Looking or gazing upon another is accepted; other cultures, the eyes are not directed at anyone not of your family. Public affection is acceptable in one country but to kiss, touch or hold someone’s hand is blasphemous. This behavior may be deemed negatively valenced.\n\nPersonality or personality traits also affect intimacy or immediacy within a dyad relationship. Just as humans differ in their size, weight and emotional attributes, human personalities differ in their degree of sociability, their likes and dislikes, the level of tolerance towards shyness and openness and their adherence to proxemics or the distance displaced from one person towards another. Essentially, this is where knowing your partner’s personality is crucial to a happy relationship. This relationship promotes positive valence or misinterpreting your partner’s personality may promote a negative valence.\n\nInterpersonal Valence can be best described as a nonverbal communication typology. A touch from someone you like is received differently than an unwanted touch. Interpersonal valence has a positive affect for socially and physically attractive people and a negative valence for those not so attractive. This degree of attraction may be within the initiator’s point of view or may also be perceived from the receiver.\n\nAndersen argues here that state is the internal, short-term condition affecting communications. This form of state suggests that external behavioral situations affect one’s internal behavioral, coping adaptability. Simply, disagreements at home or at the office signal a negative valence of immediacy or intimacy. An argument with your boss or a disrespectful employee may lower your internal coping adaptability, and negative valence emerges. However, one’s acceptance of intimacy or immediacy is higher when positive valence is experienced. A good day at the office, congratulations on the successful completion a special project or a home cooked meal may amplify positive valence and increase immediacy or intimacy.\n\nThe relationship is the most important part of the cognitive schemata model. Partnership within a dyad has numerous labels. Within relationships (interpersonal relationships), we label our dyad partners as acquaintances, friends, colleagues, professional coworkers, personal friends, family members, fellow college students and college professors and, those people whose paths cross with ours simply as convenient contacts. Each dyad partner, whether initial or long-term may display a level of intimacy or immediacy based on a degree of appropriateness for the situation. Public forums are the stage in which positive or negative valence performs. As stated earlier, an unwanted look or a touch may heighten the degree of negative valence. In contrast, a look or an accepted touch may heighten the degree of positive valence and be the most desirable behavior for each of the dyad partners. Relationships are dependent upon both partners and their commitment to the dyad. Relationships therefore are fragile. Cognitive Valence Theory or CVT offers one explanation for this fragility. Negative valence received from any of the cognitive schemata can result in a negative relational outcome. Negative valence reduces the intimacy or immediacy strength within a relationship. Negative valence can also thwart healthy dyad growth by heightening the lack of love and care within the dyad. Positive valence acts in a 180 degree fashion as positive feeling promotes growth and strengthens the love and care within the dyad. With positive valence, there can still be risks, but the rewards may outweigh the costs.\n\nAs mentioned above, valence is the degree of positivity or negativity in expected information. Relational outcomes will become negatively valenced when violations occur within the six schemata. Negative valence here can be associated with the amount of relationships we initially form and the amount of relationships that become long lasting. Andersen’s cognitive valence theory points out (under relational outcome) how violations of any of the six schemata will affect a dyad relationship. Negative violations can result in (1) negative cognitive and affective appraisals of your partner; (2) compensation/reduction intimacy behaviors, and (3) reductions in relational closeness or disengagement. The theory further describes the degree of positivity associated with positive relational outcomes within a dyad relationship. Andersen’s cognitive valence theory also points that (under relational outcome) how positive valenced intimacy can show (1) positive cognitive and affective appraisals of one’s partner; (2) reciprocity or an increase in intimacy behaviors, and (3) increase in relational growth and closeness.\n\nExpectancy violations theory (EVT) focuses on people’s reactions to unexpected human behavior. Expectancies are primarily based upon social norms and specific characteristics of the communicators. EVT requires determining whether one interactant's behavior change qualifies as a positive or negative violation. Within the realm of involvement and immediacy changes, it predicts that (a) unexpected positive behavior by a positively valenced interactant will produce reciprocal behavior, (b) unexpected negative behavior by a positively valenced interactant will produce compensatory behavior, (c) unexpected negative behavior by a negatively valenced interactant will produce reciprocal negative behavior, and (d) unexpected positive behavior by a negatively valenced interactant may produce either reciprocal or compensatory behavior, depending on which is more salient – the valence of the behavior or the valence of the interactant. The Arousal-Labeling theory (ALT) likewise posits that both compensation and reciprocity may occur, but the focus of this model is on how the undifferentiated arousal engendered by a partner's behavior change is effectively labeled – positive labels producing reciprocity and negative labels producing compensation. Discrepancy-Arousal theory (DAT) combines arousal and affect with expectancies, predicting that discrepancies from expected behavior patterns produce arousal change, that moderate arousal change is effectively positive and elicits approach (typically reciprocity), and that high arousal change is effectively negative and elicits avoidance (typically compensation).\n\n\nCognitive valence theory seeks to describe and explain the process of intimacy exchange within a dyad relationship. CVT accomplishes this process through the employment of six schemata: culture, personality, interpersonal valence, situation, state, and the relationship. Intimacy behaviors provide the strength and positivity to generate close, personal friendships. These friendships may be found in the home family, an impending personal relationship and/or marriage. Additionally, \"if you want to have a happy marriage, be the kind of person who generates positive energy and sidesteps negative energy rather than empowering it\".\n\nAndersen, P.A. (1985). Nonverbal immediacy in interpersonal communication. In A.W. Siegman & S. Feldman (Eds.), \"Multichannel integrations of non-verbal behavior\" (pp. 1–36). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum. \n\nAndersen, P.A. (1989). \"A cognitive valence theory of intimate communication\". Paper presented at the biennial meeting of the International Network on Personal Relationships, Iowa City: IA (np). \n\nAndersen, P.A. (1998). The cognitive valence theory of intimate communication. In M.T. Palmer & G.A. Barnett (Eds.), \"Progress in communication sciences, Vol. 14: Mutual influence in interpersonal communication theory and research in cognition, affect, and behavior\" (pp. 39–72). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.\n\nAndersen, P.A. (1999). \"Nonverbal communication: Forms and functions\" (pp. 228–237). Mountain View, CA: Mayfield Publishing. \n\nBurgoon, J. K., Stern L. A., & Dillman, L. (1995). \"Interpersonal adaptation.\"(Chapter 5, pp. 251–279). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.\n\nCovey, S.R. (2004). \"The 7 habits of highly effective people: Powerful lessons in personal change\" (p. 43). New York: Free Press.\n\nGeertz, C. (1973). \"The interpretation of cultures\" (p. 11). New York: Basic Books.\n\nGuerrero, L.K., & Hecht, M.L. (2008). \"The nonverbal communication reader: Classic and Contemporary Readings\" (3rd ed.) (pp. 511–520). Long Grove, IL: Waveland Press.\n\nGuerrero, L.K., Andersen, P.A., & Afifi, W.A. (2007). \"Close encounters: Communication in relationships \" (2nd ed.) (pp. 181–185). Los Angeles: Sage.\n\nMcPherson, M. B., & Yuhua, J. L. (2007). Students’ Reactions to Teachers’ Management of Compulsive Communicators. \"Communication Education, 56,\" 18–33.\n\nMehrabian, A., & Ferris, S.R. (1967). Inference of Attitude from Nonverbal Communication in Two Channels. In: \"The Journal of Counseling Psychology, 31\", 248–252.\n\n\"Merriam-Webster's collegiate dictionary\" (10th ed.). (2002). Springfield, MA: Merriam-Webster, p. 282.\n\nPlanap, S. (1985). Relational schemata: A test of alternative forms of relational knowledge as guides to communication. \"Human Communication Research, 12\", 3–29.\n"}
{"id": "4544125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4544125", "title": "Comparison between U.S. states and countries by GDP (nominal)", "text": "Comparison between U.S. states and countries by GDP (nominal)\n\nThis is a comparison between US states and countries' nominal Gross Domestic Product for the Alternative Future as based on International Monetary Fund and Bureau of Economic Analysis data. Many of the states of the United States have large gross domestic product (called gross state product) which would rank highly on a list of countries world GDP.\n\n"}
{"id": "1249350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1249350", "title": "Computers and writing", "text": "Computers and writing\n\nComputers and Writing is the name of a conference as well as a sub-field of college English studies whose members are dedicated to the academic study of how computers, as well as other, related digital technologies, affect literacy and the writing process. The range of inquiry in this field is quite broad and can include studies as diverse as works of video game theory to a quantitative study of first-year college students using Microsoft Word. Some frequently addressed topics include hypertext theory, visual rhetoric, multimedia authoring, distance learning, digital rhetoric or eRhetoric, usability studies, the formation and lifecycles of online communities, and how various media change reading and writing practices, textual conventions, and genres. Other topics examine social or critical issues in computer technology and literacy, such as the issues of the \"digital divide\", equitable access to computer-writing resources, and critical technological literacies.\n\nThe field, which (in the United States, at least) has grown out of rhetoric and composition studies, is inter-disciplinary, and members also do scholarly work and teaching in such allied and diverse areas as technical and professional communication, linguistics, sociology, and law. The most important journals supporting this field are \"Computers & Composition\", \"Computers & Composition Online\", and \"\" Though there is no single professional organization covering this field, an information resource portal exists at http://computersandwriting.org. The professional organization Conference on College Composition and Communication has a committee, known as the 7Cs committee (CCCC Committee on Computers in Composition and Communication), that selects onsite and online hosts for the Computers & Writing conference and coordinates the \"Technology Innovator Award\" presented at that annual conference.\n\nThe conference \"Computers and Writing\" was established in 1982 in Minneapolis, Minnesota by Donald Ross and Lillian Bridwell. The conference was informal at first, but over the years, it has grown from a grassroots organized conference to an established, mainstream conference that examines the ways in which computers change writing practice and pedagogy. In earlier conferences, the scholarship presented often explored how computers influenced individual writers, but during the late 1980s and 1990s, scholarship shifted to hypertext and hypermedia, and therefore, the social nature of computer mediated writing. The conference originally presented original or \"homemade\" software design associated with word processing and editing, but eventually switched to commercial software as commercial software became more common for both individual students and educational institutions.\n\nThe conference has a history of technological optimism, and often, scholarship presented is optimistic regarding technology's influence on writing. However, the conference also has a history of examining and voicing fears and concerns related to computer technology, and some of these fears are related to institutional policies and control as well as the fear of being overwhelmed by the constant march of technological innovation. The conference has also traditionally explored the ways in which computer mediated writing can be used in socially responsible ways, as is evident by the feminist roots of the conference and subfield. The conference’s feminist roots are evident in its support of minority scholars and scholarship. Awards such as the Hawisher and Selfe Caring for the Future Scholarship provide opportunities for new presenters in Computers and Writing related fields to attend the conference. This scholarship is preferably awarded to minority scholars who are involved in the field.\n\nWhile the conference was originally more focused on software and hardware decisions and use, the conference has steadily become more concerned with the theoretical application of computers in writing pedagogy and practice. This attention to theory mirrors a shift to embrace multimodal compositions as texts and interdisciplinary growth as the conference became more mainstream and established in the 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nThe conference has been held annually since 1988, which is the year that the CCCC Committee on Computers established a subcommittee to support the Computers and Writing Conference. While the journal \"Computers and Composition\", founded by Cynthia Selfe and Kate Kiefer in 1983, is not officially connected to the \"Computers and Writing\" Conference, both began around the same time and explore the subfield within the larger fields of composition studies and rhetoric.\n\nComputers and writing pedagogy allows students learn practical applications and implications of writing by exploring complex concepts such as visual rhetoric, issues of access, and the social implications of online writing. Students and teachers, together, interrogate the computer as an environment where writing can be facilitated in a variety of ways. Particular attention tends to be paid to the production and consumption of digital, multimodal, and new media texts. The majority of computers and writing scholars seem to agree that engaging students in the production of such multimodal/digital texts is crucial to the learning process in our digitally infused moment, but how best to do this is somewhat controversial.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, which was also known as the “Birth of Composition”, Computer-Assisted instruction was used to \"observe\" students and provided instant positive, negative, or constructive feedback. However, there was initial criticism from anti-technology groups. Many teachers thought that the technology needed improvement because the programs did not allow for creative expression of the students since the programs only acted as an evaluator, reader, and feedback agent. Since that time the technology has improved immensely. Now the programs require multimodality, creativity, and technical complexity. The problems the students face in these programs now require much more comprehensive thinking and creativity to the point that it is difficult to still call the subject “writing” because the students are required to know much more.\n\nComputers and writing pedagogies must be dynamic and adaptable to the ways in which technology, media, and the sociopolitical spaces operate in a constant state of flux. Discussions about negotiating paradigm shifts abound in disciplinary journals, and teachers continually develop new approaches that engage with and build upon developments in digital technology and new media texts. Because most scholars in this area work within a university system that privileges print-media over digital text, much of the work produced and assigned by these teachers and scholars continues to be relatively traditional. While a Computers and Writing pedagogy should encourage the use of sampling, remixing, and file sharing that invites students to conceive themselves as reproducers or co-authors of digital compositions as well as consumers, this is not always an achievable goal. In the pedagogical paradigm shift that computers and composition scholars strive for, students play a vital role in the construction and transformation of knowledge.\n\nIn the age of communication technology, amateurs and experts collaborate to create, sustain, and develop virtual communities based on what Gee and Hayes (2011) call \"passionate affinity spaces\", or communities organized around \"a shared endeavor, interest, or passion\". Technology, specifically blogs, can be an excellent way to build learning communities and help students learn to write authentically for and respond to various audiences by making their writing public. On the virtual playing field, knowledge and talent matter more than degrees and professional memberships, so these spaces offer students a new learning environment and space to collaborate on the production and distribution of knowledge.\n\nAligning with the notion of \"affinity space,\" composition scholars have coined the term \"cultural ecology\" to examine the complex social and cultural contexts that shape the development of technological literacy. Drawing from the literacy narratives of two participants, Hawisher, Selfe, Moraski, and Pearson theorize five themes emergent from the cultural ecology of literacy, namely the \"cultural, material, educational, and familial contexts\" that shape and are shaped by literacy development. The five themes of cultural ecology pinpoint that technological literacy goes through life spans, that literacy provides the medium for people to exert their agency, that literacy occurs and develops both within and outside of school contexts, that the conditions of access influence people's literacy development, and that literacy practices and values transmit via family units. Kristine Blair further complicates \"cultural ecology\" by pointing out the positive impacts of cultural conflicts in constructing online discourses and political discussions, while at the same time warning that students may not undergo transformation through exposure to the conflicts. Also looming behind the issue of culture in computer and writing is the digital divide. Cynthia Selfe points out the ways through which gaining access to technological literacy is situated in unequal social, cultural, economic, and political situations. As Selfe writes, \"computers continue to be distributed along the related axes of race and socioeconomic status and this distribution continues to ongoing patterns of racism and to the continuation of poverty.\" To address the digital divide, Selfe calls upon educators and compositionists to rethink computer literacy as a political act that requires paying critical attention to inequality issues and taking political actions in specific disciplinary contexts.\n\n"}
{"id": "142259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142259", "title": "Defamiliarization", "text": "Defamiliarization\n\nDefamiliarization or ostranenie () is the artistic technique of presenting to audiences common things in an unfamiliar or strange way in order to enhance perception of the familiar.\n\nAccording to (De Guzman, 2016), Defamiliarization of that which is or has become familiar or taken for granted, hence automatically perceived, is the basic function of all devices. And with defamiliarization come both the slowing down and the increased difficulty (impeding) of the process of reading and comprehending and an awareness of the artistic procedures (devices) causing them. (Margolin 2005)\nThe term \"defamiliarization\" was first coined in 1917 by Viktor Shklovsky in his essay \"Art as Device\" (alternate translation: \"Art as Technique\") (Crawford 209). Shklovsky invented the term as a means to \"distinguish poetic from practical language on the basis of the former's perceptibility\" (Crawford 209). Essentially, he is stating that poetic language is fundamentally different than the language that we use every day because it is more difficult to understand: \"Poetic speech is \"formed speech\". Prose is ordinary speech – economical, easy, proper, the goddess of prose [\"dea prosae\"] is a goddess of the accurate, facile type, of the \"direct\" expression of a child\" (Shklovsky 20). This difference is the key to the creation of art and the prevention of \"over-automatization,\" which causes an individual to \"function as though by formula\" (Shklovsky 16). This distinction between artistic language and everyday language, for Shklovsky, applies to all artistic forms:\n\nThe purpose of art is to impart the sensation of things as they are perceived and not as they are known. The technique of art is to make objects ‘unfamiliar,' to make forms difficult to increase the difficulty and length of perception because the process of perception is an aesthetic end in itself and must be prolonged. (Shklovsky 16) \n\nThus, defamiliarization serves as a means to force individuals to recognize artistic language:\n\nIn studying poetic speech in its phonetic and lexical structure as well as in its characteristic distribution of words and in the characteristic thought structures compounded from the words, we find everywhere the artistic trademark – that is, we find material obviously created to remove the automatism of perception; the author's purpose is to create the vision which results from that deautomatized perception. A work is created \"artistically\" so that its perception is impeded and the greatest possible effect is produced through the slowness of the perception. (Shklovsky 19)\n\nThis technique is meant to be especially useful in distinguishing poetry from prose, for, as Aristotle said, \"poetic language must appear strange and wonderful\" (Shklovsky 19).\n\nTo illustrate what he means by defamiliarization, Shklovsky uses examples from Tolstoy, whom he cites as using the technique throughout his works: \"The narrator of 'Kholstomer,' for example, is a horse, and it is the horse's point of view (rather than a person's) that makes the content of the story seem unfamiliar\" (Shklovsky 16). As a Russian Formalist, many of Shklovsky's examples use Russian authors and Russian dialects: \"And currently Maxim Gorky is changing his diction from the old literary language to the new literary colloquialism of Leskov. Ordinary speech and literary language have thereby changed places (see the work of Vyacheslav Ivanov and many others)\" (Shklovsky 19-20).\n\nDefamiliarization also includes the use of foreign languages within a work. At the time that Shklovsky was writing, there was a change in the use of language in both literature and everyday spoken Russian. As Shklovsky puts it: \"Russian literary language, which was originally foreign to Russia, has so permeated the language of the people that it has blended with their conversation. On the other hand, literature has now begun to show a tendency towards the use of dialects and/or barbarisms\" (Shklovsky 19).\n\nShklovsky's defamiliarization can also be compared to Jacques Derrida's concept of différance:\n\nWhat Shklovskij wants to show is that the operation of defamiliarization and its consequent perception in the literary system is like the winding of a watch (the introduction of energy into a physical system): both \"originate\" difference, change, value, motion, presence. Considered against the general and functional background of Derridian différance, what Shklovskij calls \"perception\" can be considered a matrix for production of difference. (Crawford 212) \n\nSince the term différance refers to the dual meanings of the French word difference to mean both \"to differ\" and \"to defer\", defamiliarization draws attention to the use of common language in such a way as to alter one's perception of an easily understandable object or concept. The use of defamiliarization both differs and defers, since the use of the technique alters one's perception of a concept (to defer), and forces one to think about the concept in different, often more complex, terms (to differ).\nShklovskij's formulations negate or cancel out the existence/possibility of a \"real\" perception: variously, by (1) the familiar Formalist denial of a link between literature and life, connoting their status as non-communicating vessels, (2) always, as if compulsively, referring to a real experience in terms of empty, dead, and automatized repetition and recognition, and (3) implicitly locating real perception at an unspecifiable temporally anterior and spatially other place, at a mythic \"first time\" of naïve experience, the loss of which to automatization is to be restored by aesthetic perceptual fullness. (Crawford 218)\n\nThe influence of Russian Formalism on twentieth-century art and culture is largely due to the literary technique of defamiliarization or ‘making strange’, and has also been linked to Freud’s notion of the uncanny. In \"Das Unheimliche\" (\"The Uncanny\"), Freud states that “the uncanny is that class of the frightening which leads back to what is known of old and long familiar,” however, this is not a fear of the unknown, but more of a feeling about something being both strange and familiar (220). The connection between \"ostranenie\" and the uncanny can be seen where Freud muses on the technique of literary uncanniness: “It is true that the writer creates a kind of uncertainty in us in the beginning by not letting us know, no doubt purposely, whether he is taking us into the real world or into a purely fantastic one of his own creation” (230). When “the writer pretends to move in the world of common reality,” they can situate supernatural events, such as the animation of inanimate objects, in the quotidian, day-to-day reality of the modern world, defamiliarizing the reader and provoking an uncanny feeling (250).\n\nThe technique appears in English Romantic poetry, particularly in the poetry of Wordsworth, and was defined in the following way by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, in his \"Biographia Literaria\": \"To carry on the feelings of childhood into the powers of manhood; to combine the child's sense of wonder and novelty with the appearances which every day for perhaps forty years had rendered familiar ... this is the character and privilege of genius.\" \nIn more recent times, it has been associated with the poet and playwright Bertolt Brecht, whose Verfremdungseffekt (\"estrangement effect\") was a potent element of his approach to theater. In fact, as Willett points out, Verfremdungseffekt is \"a translation of the Russian critic Viktor Shklovskij's phrase 'Priem Ostranenija', or 'device for making strange'\". Brecht, in turn, has been highly influential for artists and filmmakers including Jean-Luc Godard and Yvonne Rainer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13517137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13517137", "title": "Dumbarton Oaks Papers", "text": "Dumbarton Oaks Papers\n\nDumbarton Oaks Papers (DOP) is an academic journal founded in 1941 for the publication of articles relating to civilizations of the late antique, early medieval, and Byzantine periods.\n\nPublication was suspended during World War II, resuming in 1946 irregularly at first, and eventually published annually by the mid-1950s.\n"}
{"id": "78471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78471", "title": "Estuary", "text": "Estuary\n\nAn estuary is a partially enclosed coastal body of brackish water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it, and with a free connection to the open sea.\n\nEstuaries form a transition zone between river environments and maritime environments. They are subject both to marine influences—such as tides, waves, and the influx of saline water—and to riverine influences—such as flows of fresh water and sediment. The mixing of sea water and fresh water provide high levels of nutrients both in the water column and in sediment, making estuaries among the most productive natural habitats in the world.\n\nMost existing estuaries formed during the Holocene epoch with the flooding of river-eroded or glacially scoured valleys when the sea level began to rise about 10,000–12,000 years ago. Estuaries are typically classified according to their geomorphological features or to water-circulation patterns. They can have many different names, such as bays, harbors, lagoons, inlets, or sounds, although some of these water bodies do not strictly meet the above definition of an estuary and may be fully saline.\n\nThe banks of many estuaries are amongst the most heavily populated areas of the world, with about 60% of the world's population living along estuaries and the coast. As a result, many estuaries suffer degradation from a variety of factors including: sedimentation from soil erosion from deforestation, overgrazing, and other poor farming practices; overfishing; drainage and filling of wetlands; eutrophication due to excessive nutrients from sewage and animal wastes; pollutants including heavy metals, polychlorinated biphenyls, radionuclides and hydrocarbons from sewage inputs; and diking or damming for flood control or water diversion.\n\nThe word \"estuary\" is derived from the Latin word \"aestuarium\" meaning tidal inlet of the sea, which in itself is derived from the term \"aestus\", meaning tide. There have been many definitions proposed to describe an estuary. The most widely accepted definition is: \"a semi-enclosed coastal body of water, which has a free connection with the open sea, and within which sea water is measurably diluted with freshwater derived from land drainage\". However, this definition excludes a number of coastal water bodies such as coastal lagoons and brackish seas. A more comprehensive definition of an estuary is \"a semi-enclosed body of water connected to the sea as far as the tidal limit or the salt intrusion limit and receiving freshwater runoff; however the freshwater inflow may not be perennial, the connection to the sea may be closed for part of the year and tidal influence may be negligible\". This broad definition also includes fjords, lagoons, river mouths, and tidal creeks. An estuary is a dynamic ecosystem having a connection to the open sea through which the sea water enters with the rhythm of the tides. The sea water entering the estuary is diluted by the fresh water flowing from rivers and streams. The pattern of dilution varies between different estuaries and depends on the volume of fresh water, the tidal range, and the extent of evaporation of the water in the estuary.\n\nDrowned river valleys are also known as coastal plain estuaries. In places where the sea level is rising relative to the land, sea water progressively penetrates into river valleys and the topography of the estuary remains similar to that of a river valley. This is the most common type of estuary in temperate climates. Well-studied estuaries include the Severn Estuary in the United Kingdom and the Ems Dollard along the Dutch-German border.\n\nThe width-to-depth ratio of these estuaries is typically large, appearing wedge-shaped (in cross-section) in the inner part and broadening and deepening seaward. Water depths rarely exceed . Examples of this type of estuary in the U.S. are the Hudson River, Chesapeake Bay, and Delaware Bay along the Mid-Atlantic coast, and Galveston Bay and Tampa Bay along the Gulf Coast.\n\nBar-built estuaries are found in place where the deposition of sediment has kept pace with rising sea level so that the estuaries are shallow and separated from the sea by sand spits or barrier islands. They are relatively common in tropical and subtropical locations.\n\nThese estuaries are semi-isolated from ocean waters by barrier beaches (barrier islands and barrier spits). Formation of barrier beaches partially encloses the estuary, with only narrow inlets allowing contact with the ocean waters. Bar-built estuaries typically develop on gently sloping plains located along tectonically stable edges of continents and marginal sea coasts. They are extensive along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the U.S. in areas with active coastal deposition of sediments and where tidal ranges are less than . The barrier beaches that enclose bar-built estuaries have been developed in several ways:\nBarrier beaches form in shallow water and are generally parallel to the shoreline, resulting in long, narrow estuaries. The average water depth is usually less than , and rarely exceeds . Examples of bar-built estuaries are Barnegat Bay, New Jersey; Laguna Madre, Texas; and Pamlico Sound, North Carolina.\n\nFjords were formed where pleistocene glaciers deepened and widened existing river valleys so that they become U-shaped in cross sections. At their mouths there are typically rocks, bars or sills of glacial deposits, which have the effects of modifying the estuarine circulation.\nFjord-type estuaries are formed in deeply eroded valleys formed by glaciers. These U-shaped estuaries typically have steep sides, rock bottoms, and underwater sills contoured by glacial movement. The estuary is shallowest at its mouth, where terminal glacial moraines or rock bars form sills that restrict water flow. In the upper reaches of the estuary, the depth can exceed . The width-to-depth ratio is generally small. In estuaries with very shallow sills, tidal oscillations only affect the water down to the depth of the sill, and the waters deeper than that may remain stagnant for a very long time, so there is only an occasional exchange of the deep water of the estuary with the ocean. If the sill depth is deep, water circulation is less restricted, and there is a slow but steady exchange of water between the estuary and the ocean. Fjord-type estuaries can be found along the coasts of Alaska, the Puget Sound region of western Washington state, British Columbia, eastern Canada, Greenland, Iceland, New Zealand, and Norway.\n\nThese estuaries are formed by subsidence or land cut off from the ocean by land movement associated with faulting, volcanoes, and landslides. Inundation from eustatic sea level rise during the Holocene Epoch has also contributed to the formation of these estuaries. There are only a small number of tectonically produced estuaries; one example is the San Francisco Bay, which was formed by the crustal movements of the San Andreas fault system causing the inundation of the lower reaches of the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers.\n\nIn this type of estuary, river output greatly exceeds marine input and tidal effects have a minor importance. Fresh water floats on top of the seawater in a layer that gradually thins as it moves seaward. The denser seawater moves landward along the bottom of the estuary, forming a wedge-shaped layer that is thinner as it approaches land. As a velocity difference develops between the two layers, shear forces generate internal waves at the interface, mixing the seawater upward with the freshwater. An example of a salt wedge estuary is the Mississippi River.\n\nAs tidal forcing increases, river output becomes less than the marine input. Here, current induced turbulence causes mixing of the whole water column such that salinity varies more longitudinally rather than vertically, leading to a moderately stratified condition. Examples include the Chesapeake Bay and Narragansett Bay.\n\nTidal mixing forces exceed river output, resulting in a well mixed water column and the disappearance of the vertical salinity gradient. The freshwater-seawater boundary is eliminated due to the intense turbulent mixing and eddy effects. The lower reaches of Delaware Bay and the Raritan River in New Jersey are examples of vertically homogenous estuaries.\n\nInverse estuaries occur in dry climates where evaporation greatly exceeds the inflow of fresh water. A salinity maximum zone is formed, and both riverine and oceanic water flow close to the surface towards this zone. This water is pushed downward and spreads along the bottom in both the seaward and landward direction. An example of an inverse estuary is Spencer Gulf, South Australia.\n\nEstuary type varies dramatically depending on freshwater input, and is capable of changing from a wholly marine embayment to any of the other estuary types.\n\nThe most important variable characteristics of estuary water are the concentration of dissolved oxygen, salinity and sediment load. There is extreme spatial variability in salinity, with a range of near zero at the tidal limit of tributary rivers to 3.4% at the estuary mouth. At any one point the salinity will vary considerably over time and seasons, making it a harsh environment for organisms. Sediment often settles in intertidal mudflats which are extremely difficult to colonize. No points of attachment exist for algae, so vegetation based habitat is not established. Sediment can also clog feeding and respiratory structures of species, and special adaptations exist within mudflat species to cope with this problem. Lastly, dissolved oxygen variation can cause problems for life forms. Nutrient-rich sediment from man-made sources can promote primary production life cycles, perhaps leading to eventual decay removing the dissolved oxygen from the water; thus hypoxic or anoxic zones can develop.\n\nEstuaries provide habitats for a large number of organisms and support very high productivity. Estuaries provide habitats for many fish nurseries, depending upon their locations in the world, such as salmon and sea trout. Also, migratory bird populations, such as the black-tailed godwit, make essential use of estuaries.\n\nTwo of the main challenges of estuarine life are the variability in salinity and sedimentation. Many species of fish and invertebrates have various methods to control or conform to the shifts in salt concentrations and are termed osmoconformers and osmoregulators. Many animals also burrow to avoid predation and to live in the more stable sedimental environment. However, large numbers of bacteria are found within the sediment which have a very high oxygen demand. This reduces the levels of oxygen within the sediment often resulting in partially anoxic conditions, which can be further exacerbated by limited water flux.\n\nPhytoplankton are key primary producers in estuaries. They move with the water bodies and can be flushed in and out with the tides. Their productivity is largely dependent upon the turbidity of the water. The main phytoplankton present are diatoms and dinoflagellates which are abundant in the sediment.\n\nIt is important to remember that a primary source of food for many organisms on estuaries, including bacteria, is detritus from the settlement of the sedimentation.\n\nOf the thirty-two largest cities in the world in the early 1990s, twenty-two were located on estuaries.\n\nAs ecosystems, estuaries are under threat from human activities such as pollution and overfishing. They are also threatened by sewage, coastal settlement, land clearance and much more. Estuaries are affected by events far upstream, and concentrate materials such as pollutants and sediments. Land run-off and industrial, agricultural, and domestic waste enter rivers and are discharged into estuaries. Contaminants can be introduced which do not disintegrate rapidly in the marine environment, such as plastics, pesticides, furans, dioxins, phenols and heavy metals.\n\nSuch toxins can accumulate in the tissues of many species of aquatic life in a process called bioaccumulation. They also accumulate in benthic environments, such as estuaries and bay muds: a geological record of human activities of the last century. The elemental composition of biofilm reflect areas of the estuary impacted by human activities, and over time may shift the basic composition of the ecosystem, and the reversible or irreversible changes in the abiotic and biotic parts of the systems from the bottom up.\n\nFor example, Chinese and Russian industrial pollution, such as phenols and heavy metals, has devastated fish stocks in the Amur River and damaged its estuary soil.\n\nEstuaries tend to be naturally eutrophic because land runoff discharges nutrients into estuaries. With human activities, land run-off also now includes the many chemicals used as fertilizers in agriculture as well as waste from livestock and humans. Excess oxygen-depleting chemicals in the water can lead to hypoxia and the creation of dead zones. This can result in reductions in water quality, fish, and other animal populations.\nOverfishing also occurs. Chesapeake Bay once had a flourishing oyster population that has been almost wiped out by overfishing. Oysters filter these pollutants, and either eat them or shape them into small packets that are deposited on the bottom where they are harmless. Historically the oysters filtered the estuary's entire water volume of excess nutrients every three or four days. Today that process takes almost a year, and sediment, nutrients, and algae can cause problems in local waters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25252702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25252702", "title": "Françoise Robin", "text": "Françoise Robin\n\nFrançoise Robin received a DEA at INALCO in 1999. In 2003, she submitted a doctoral thesis on TIbetan literature also at l’INALCO, under the supervision of Heather Stoddard, titled « La littérature de fiction d’expression tibétaine au Tibet (RPC) depuis 1950 : sources textuelles anciennes, courants principaux et fonctions dans la société contemporaine tibétaine ». She has had many trips to China specifically to Tibet University as part of her research.\n\nCurrently Robin is a maître de conférence at l’INALCO and is a specialist of Tibet.\n\nShe is a member of UMR 8155 « Centre de recherche sur les civilisations chinoise, japonaise et tibétaine » and is responsible for the programme « Dictionnaire thématique français-tibétain » au sein de l’UMR 8155.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57884180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57884180", "title": "Friedrichsfelde Palace", "text": "Friedrichsfelde Palace\n\nThe Friedrichsfelde Palace () is a Neoclassical-style building in the centre of the Tierpark Berlin in Berlin-Friedrichsfelde. It was property of various noble Prussians and occasionally owned by Prussian Kings. Currently, the palace offers exhibitions about its history and is a place for musical concerts. \n\nFormerly constructed around 1695 by architect Johann Arnold Nering as \"Rosenfelde Palace\", the building received its current name in 1699 since Frederick I of Prussia came into possession of the palace. In 1719, architect Martin Heinrich Böhme expanded the dimensions of the building on behalf of its new owner, Margrave Albert Frederick of Brandenburg-Schwedt. Thus, Friedrichsfelde Palace was equipped with new baroque stairs and the size of the facade was extended. 1762, the building became property of Prince Augustus Ferdinand of Prussia, brother of Frederick the Great. He aspired to rebuild the palace completely. However, he discarded his plans for Friedrichsfelde Palace and instead used them for the construction of Bellevue Palace in Berlin-Mitte. Sold several times in the course of the following decades, Friedrichsfelde Palace received its neoclassical appearance in 1800. In summer 1816, Carl of Treskow acquired the building and hired the Prussian landscape architect Peter Joseph Lenné to transform the park of the palace into an English landscape garden. \n\nThe palace remained in possession of family Tresckow until May 1945, when the Red Army conquered the palace. The building itself overcame World War II with only a few damages. The restorations of Friedrichsfelde Palace started in 1967. Since 1981, the building is used for musical concerts and as a museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "184191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184191", "title": "Gallaudet University", "text": "Gallaudet University\n\nGallaudet University is a federally chartered private university for the education of the deaf and hard of hearing. It is located in Washington, D.C. on a campus.\n\nFounded in 1864, Gallaudet University was originally a grammar school for both Deaf and blind children. It was the first school for the advanced education of the Deaf and hard of hearing in the world and remains the only higher education institution in which all programs and services are specifically designed to accommodate deaf and hard of hearing students. Hearing students are admitted to the graduate school and a small number are also admitted as undergraduates each year. The university was named after Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet, a notable figure in the advancement of deaf education.\n\nGallaudet University is officially bilingual, with American Sign Language (ASL) and written English used for instruction and by the college community. Although there are no specific ASL proficiency requirements for undergraduate admission, many graduate programs require varying degrees of knowledge of the language as a prerequisite.\n\nIn 1856, philanthropist and former United States Postmaster General Amos Kendall became aware of several deaf and blind children in Washington, D.C., who were not receiving proper care. Kendall had the courts declare the children to be his wards and donated of his land to establish housing and a school for them. Edward Miner Gallaudet was the first superintendent of the new school. Later, John Carlin suggested placing a monument of Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet with Alice Cogswell.\n\nIn 1857, the 34th Congress passed H.R. 806, which chartered the grammar school as the Columbia Institution for the Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb and the Blind and funded tuition costs for indigent deaf, dumb (mute), or blind children belonging to the District of Columbia. Seven years later, in 1864, the 38th Congress authorized the institution to grant and confirm college degrees. The collegiate department became known as the National Deaf-Mute College. The following year, in 1865, the 38th Congress removed the instruction that the institution was to educate the blind, and renamed it the Columbia Institution for the Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb.\n\nIn 1954, Congress amended the charter of the institution, changing the corporate name to Gallaudet College, which had been the official name of the collegiate department since 1894.\n\nDuring his 17 years as Dean of the College in the 1950s and 1960s, George Ernst Detmold was a significant figure in helping the college achieve accreditation. He also led the college in developing new departments, especially drama. He directed Gallaudet theater productions, which eventually led to starting the National Theatre of the Deaf.\n\nIn 1986, Congress again amended the charter of the Institution, renaming it Gallaudet University.\n\nThe school was established in 1857 with considerable efforts being made by several concerned citizens of Washington, D.C. Two houses were used, one purchased and one rented. On November 1, 1858, the First Annual Report was submitted to the Secretary of the Interior.\n\nDuring the school's second full year of operation (1858–1859), 14 deaf students and 7 blind students were in attendance. Superintendent Gallaudet, anticipating the future growth of the school, requested money for more buildings, lamenting the fact that the money was not issued in the year prior, due to federal budget problems. The Second Annual Report was submitted November 5, 1859.\n\nDuring the third academic year (1859–1860), Kendall beseeched the federal government for funds to relocate the school to more spacious grounds. Gallaudet praised Kendall for donating money needed to construct a new brick building; however, both school buildings were already at capacity. There were 24 deaf students, necessitating a second teacher of the deaf. The teacher of the 6 blind students resigned due to health concerns.\n\nBy the 1860–61 academic year, the Civil War had been in progress for over six months. Gallaudet reported that the students were safe and free from fear. There were 35 deaf students and 6 blind students in attendance during the academic year. An art teacher was hired for the first time.\n\nDuring 1861–62, new monies provided for industrial education were used to rent a nearby shop in order to teach cabinet-making to the male students. Plans were underway to construct a new building using $9,000 that Congress appropriated to the school. There were 35 deaf students and 6 blind students. During vacation in August a regiment of troops used the brick building for a hospital, and some of the students who stayed over the summer helped with tending to the sick soldiers. One soldier died. For the first time, Gallaudet proposed expanding the school to create a college for deaf students.\n\nEven with new construction completed for the 1862-1863 school year, the school was still at capacity and more money was needed to purchase of adjoining land and then build even more buildings. Gallaudet asked for money to pipe in water from the river, as the existing cistern and well were inadequate to the school's needs.\n\nCollege-level courses were offered for the first time during the 1864-65 academic year. Congress provided approval for Columbia to grant college degrees, and an enabling act for the college was passed and approved by President Lincoln. An elaborate inauguration ceremony was held in June with Laurent Clerc in attendance. Fourteen acres of land was purchased with money supplied by the government. Gallaudet was promoted to the position of president of the institution. He continued to push for funds for expansion and new buildings. Gallaudet also proposed discontinuing services for blind students, saying that the small number of blind students would be better served at the school for the blind in Baltimore.\n\nThe enrollment numbers increased rapidly during the 1864–65 academic year. Gallaudet asked the government for money to accomplish several projects, including the construction of an ice house and a gas house, sewer lines, and more. Major construction continued on campus. The name of the collegiate department was changed to \"National Deaf-Mute College\". The blind students were transferred to a school in Baltimore.\n\nDuring the 1865–66 academic year, Gallaudet responded to criticism from supporters of the oral method in Massachusetts, saying that oral instruction is usually of little value to congenitally deaf children. Gallaudet proposed that a representative of the school be sent to Europe to study the methods employed there, in order to determine which types of instructional methods might be added to those methods already being used successfully at the Columbia Institution and other American schools. Combined enrollment of all levels of instruction, including the collegiate level, exceeded 100 for the first time during this year. There were 25 students enrolled in the college, including students from 14 states of all parts of the Union. Edward Allen Fay joined the faculty as a professor of history, having learned to sign as a child.\nIn the 1866–67 academic year, the building for the primary school was extended and sickness was thereby reduced. A mathematics professor was hired for the first time. More money was needed to accommodate additional students expected to swell the ranks of the school.\n\nGallaudet gave a lengthy account of his travels to Europe and was very critical of the extent to which speech is taught to deaf children in European schools for the deaf. Nevertheless, he recommended that a limited amount of speech training be afforded to deaf students in America to those who show they can benefit. His travels took him to: Doncaster, England; Birmingham, England; Manchester, England; Liverpool, England; Glasgow, Scotland; Belfast, Ireland (Belfast, Northern Ireland); Dublin, Ireland; Geneva, Switzerland; Nancy, France, Saint-Hippolyte-du-Fort, France; Vienna, Austria; Leipsic, Saxony (Leipzig, Germany); Lubec (Lübeck, Germany); Frankfort On-the-Main (Frankfurt, Germany); Brussels, Belgium; Zurich, Switzerland; Rotterdam, Netherlands; Paris, France; Weissenfels, Prussia (Weißenfels, Germany); Prague, Bohemia; (Prague, Czech Republic); Berlin, Prussia (Berlin, Germany); Milan, Italy; Genoa, Italy; Turin, Italy; Dresden, Saxony (Dresden, Germany); London, England; Edinburgh, Scotland; Bordeaux, France; Marseilles, France; Munich, Bavaria (Munich, Germany); Bruges, Belgium; St. Petersburg, Russia; Åbo, Finland (Turku, Finland); Stockholm, Sweden; and Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nThe biggest educational conference in the then-history of deaf education was held during the month of May 1868 in Washington, D.C., largely made up of principals of schools for the deaf. Fourteen schools for the deaf were represented from 22 different states. The chief topic of discussion was the recommendations put forth by Edward Gallaudet regarding adding articulation lessons to schools' curricula.\n\nIn 1868–69, the first students completed a full course of college studies, all graduating with bachelor's degrees.\n\nThe founder of the school, Amos Kendall, died in November 1869. Gallaudet delivered a eulogy at the board meeting in January 1870. The main central building was partially completed, with rooms in the basement and on the first floor first being used. Plans were being made to purchase Amos Kendall's estate, which adjoined the grounds of the school. Gallaudet cautioned Congress that Kendall's heirs had plans to subdivide the property if it was not sold to Columbia, and hence the land would never again become available for purchase as a whole.\n\nIn 1881, Laura Sheridan, a hearing woman, inquired about Gallaudet University's accepting women. She was told that deaf women could not enter the institution. In 1887 Gallaudet agreed to allow women to apply with the intent that women would not stay. Temporary living arrangements were made and the college remained co-educational.\n\nStudent strikes at Gallaudet University starting March 6, 1988, revolutionized the perception and education of Deaf culture. Deaf students were outraged at the selection of another hearing president, Elisabeth Zinser; the university had never selected a deaf person for this position. Alumni, faculty, staff, and students demanded that the next president of the university be deaf. After a week of protest and activism, Zinser resigned and was replaced by I. King Jordan. This movement became known as \"Deaf President Now\" (DPN).\n\nJordan announced his retirement in September 2005. On May 1, 2006, the university's board of trustees announced that Jane Fernandes, the university's current provost, would be the university's next president. This was met with protests from the student body, both in person on campus and in internet blogs and forums.\n\nInitially, students cited the lack of racial diversity among finalists, Fernandes's lack of warmth, and her lack of fluency in American Sign Language.\n\nJordan publicly accused some critics of rejecting Fernandes because \"she is not deaf enough.\" He described the protest as \"identity politics\", saying, \"We are squabbling about what it means to be deaf.\"\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported that Fernandes \"would like to see the institution become more inclusive of people who might not have grown up using sign language,\" stating that Gallaudet must embrace \"all kinds of deaf people.\" Those who opposed her said that they feared a \"weakening of American Sign Language at an institution that should be its standard-bearer.\"\n\nProtesters said Fernandes distorted their arguments and that the protest centered on her inability to lead, an unfair selection process and longstanding problems at the school.\n\nIn the spring 2006 protest, students blocked entrances to the Gallaudet campus, held rallies, and set up tents near the university's main entrance. Fernandes, appointed to serve as president-designate until Jordan retired, said that she would not step down. On May 8, the faculty gave a vote of no confidence for Fernandes.\n\nWhen the fall 2006 academic year resumed, some students, faculty, staff, and alumni continued their protest, calling for Fernandes to step down and for the presidential search to be done again. On October 11, a group of protesting students shut down the campus. On October 16 at a regularly scheduled meeting, faculty members voted 138 to 24 to block Fernandes from becoming president of Gallaudet University.\n\nFernandes said, \"I really don't understand so I have to believe it's not about me. ... I believe it's about evolution and change and growth in the deaf community.\"\n\nOn October 29, the university withdrew the appointment of Fernandes. In an opinion piece in \"The Washington Post\", Jordan defended Fernandes's remarks and denounced the board's decision and the actions of the protesters, saying, \"I am convinced that the board made a serious error in acceding to the demands of the protesters by terminating Fernandes's presidency before it began.\"\n\nOn December 10, 2006, the Board of Trustees announced that Robert Davila would serve as interim president for a period of up to two years. He was formally installed on May 9, 2007, during a ceremony that included a speech by D.C. Congressional Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, who spoke positively of the 2006 protest. He stepped down on December 31, 2009.\n\nOn June 29, 2007, in the aftermath of the controversy over the university's presidency, Gallaudet was temporarily placed on probation by its accreditation organization, the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. It was also reported that in 2006, the Office of Management and Budget had found that \"Gallaudet failed to meet its goals or showed declining performance in key areas, including the number of students who stay in school, graduate and either pursue graduate degrees or find jobs upon graduation.\" In January 2007, former president Jordan wrote an editorial on the topic that appeared in the Washington Post. The Middle States Commission later reaffirmed Gallaudet's accreditation on June 27, 2008.\n\nOn October 18, 2009, the Board of Trustees announced that Gallaudet's tenth president would be T. Alan Hurwitz. He began his tenure on January 1, 2010, and served until he retired on December 31, 2015, succeeded by Roberta Cordano, the eleventh president.\n\nThe university acknowledges that it \"is a congressionally created corporation that serves governmental objectives.\" \nThe university and the Department of Education explain that Gallaudet has been structured by the Federal Government to take the form of a \"federally chartered, private, non-profit educational institution.\" The federal government plays various roles within the institution: \n\nGallaudet's Fifty-Fifth Annual Report contains an appendix that includes the text of 99 Federal Acts related to Gallaudet/Columbia which were enacted between 1857 and 1912.\n\nThere have been 15 occasions in Gallaudet history when a US president has visited either the campus or attended an official function off campus. President Johnson's second visit, in 1966, was unannounced and impromptu. President Kennedy had planned to attend the centennial celebration at Gallaudet in 1964, but was assassinated.\n\n\nSeveral programs and majors are offered at Gallaudet University. The five most popular majors are business, visual and performing arts, communication studies, physical education, and psychology. Gallaudet University offers thirty graduate programs in ten Departments as well as on-line and on-campus continuing education courses. Over 90 percent of the classes offered at Gallaudet University contain fewer than 20 students. The freshman retention rate at the university is relatively low, at 72 percent, and the four-year graduation rate is also low, at 16 percent.\n\nThe Gallaudet campus, comprising the Gallaudet College Historic District, has been designated a historic place on several registries and surveys:\n\nThe campus is shared with Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, a day school serving deaf and hard of hearing students from birth through grade 8, and the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, a day and residential high school for deaf and hard of hearing students.\n\nIn October 2014, the Gallaudet University board of trustees announced a 10-year, $450 million development of its campus along 6th Street NE. The development, which includes both campus property as well as college-owned residential and retail property across the street, will be overseen by JBG Smith.\n\nGallaudet is a member of NCAA Division III and the North Eastern Athletic Conference. The teams that play in the North Eastern Athletic Conference are the men's and women's basketball, cross country, soccer teams, along with the baseball, softball, and volleyball teams. However, the Gallaudet football team plays in the Eastern Collegiate Football Conference. In addition to the football team, which plays in a different conference than most sports at Gallaudet, the men's and women's swimming teams, as well as the men's and women's track and field teams, compete as independents. The Bison compete in baseball, basketball, cross country running, football, indoor and outdoor track and field, soccer, softball, swimming, tennis, volleyball, and wrestling. Their colors are buff and blue, which were chosen after Union soldiers' uniforms in the Civil War.\n\nGallaudet women's basketball made its biggest splash in 1999, with a group of players from the Minnesota State Academy for the Deaf among those leading the way. Ronda Jo Miller, most certainly the greatest women's basketball player in the program's history, was a three-time Division III All-America selection, as well as one of the top women's volleyball players.\n\nUnder the leadership of coach Kitty Baldridge, Miller, Touria Ouahid, Ronda Johnson and Jenny Cooper led the Bison to the NCAA Tournament for the second time in three seasons. Receiving one of the lowest seeds as an at-large team into the Division III NCAA Tournament field, which numbered just 48 teams, the Bison traveled to St. Mary's College (Md.), the school which had just defeated them in the Capital Athletic Conference tournament, and came away with an 80-73 win. In the second round, Gallaudet faced a team from The College of New Jersey which had received a first-round bye and was highly favored, but Miller poured in 38 points, using a variety of impressive shots. The Bison advanced to the Sweet 16 round of the 1999 tournament before falling to host school Salem State College (Mass.).\n\nMiller finished with 2,656 points scored, 1,545 rebounds and 373 blocked shots, and was called \"one of the best basketball players in Division III history\" by the NCAA.\n\nKevin Cook coached the team briefly to success. The team had not won a conference game in five years and even lost a game by 75 points in Cook's first year in charge. Cook's persistence on defense and discipline turned the program around. Gallaudet began the 2010–11 season on a 20-game winning streak and finished the season 24–4 (20–2 in conference play). Cook was named North Eastern Athletic Conference Coach of the Year, and senior Easter Faafiti was voted NEAC Player of the Year. The 2010–11 season ended in the first round of the Division III NCAA Championships with a loss to Juniata.\n\nAfter a victory over Penn State-Berks in the 2010–11 season, Penn State guard Corin Bishop \"said that she views the Gallaudet team as a great basketball team, not a team of deaf players.\" Hayes of Gallaudet later said, \"I feel like there are people who stereotype us as deaf players, I'm just like everyone else who plays basketball\". In an interview with Lydia Lum of \"Diverse\", he said, \"Because of us, there's a growing awareness that there are differences between deaf people, but we're all the same.\"\n\nThe football huddle originated at Gallaudet when the team noticed that their opponents were trying to see and read their signs in order to try to guess their plays.\n\nAfter an undefeated season in 2005, which was achieved after 122 years, head coach Ed Hottle began his campaign to return Gallaudet to the NCAA ranks. With support from the Gallaudet administration, the Bison played their last season of club football in 2006 and played a full NCAA slate of eight games in 2007.\n\nAfter the 2009 football season, Coach Hottle left to become the first head coach of the first football team at Stevenson University. He announced his decision in a heart-felt meeting with the football team. Offensive Coordinator Chuck Goldstein was tapped to be the interim head coach of the football team. On December 17, 2009, the interim tag was removed and he is now the permanent head coach of the team.\n\nGallaudet University's football team has a longstanding rivalry with Catholic University of America, another school in the Washington D.C. area. On September 7, 2012, Gallaudet University defeated Catholic University of America for the first time in the 106-year history of the rivalry between the two D.C. schools.\n\nIn the fall of 2013, Gallaudet's football program began a remarkable run for the Division III playoffs and garnering a considerable amount of publicity, winning the regular season with a 9-1 record, before falling to Hobart College in the first round of the playoffs and ending the season with a 9-2 (.818) overall record.\n\nIn 2006, the Gallaudet women's volleyball team ended their season 30–10 after a history-making run to the Sweet Sixteen in the NCAA Division III tournament. Tamijo Foronda, a senior outside hitter, was named to the AVCA All-American Team.\n\nNotable athletes that have attended the university include:\n\nThe campus Greek community is relatively small with only 4 fraternities and 4 sororities. The four fraternities are Kappa Gamma, Alpha Sigma Pi, Kappa Sigma, and Delta Sigma Phi. The four sororities are Delta Epsilon, Phi Kappa Zeta, Alpha Sigma Theta, and Delta Zeta.\n\nThe Gallaudet Office of Research Support and International Affairs (RSIA) (formerly Gallaudet Research Institute or GRI) is internationally recognized for its leadership in deafness-related research. RSIA researchers gather and analyze data concerning the social, academic, and perceptual characteristics of deaf and hard of hearing populations, primarily to provide information needed by educators in the field. Staff are skilled in various research methodologies including surveys, test norming and assessment, ethnographic studies, clinical studies, and information management. In 2016, RSIA began hosting the Gallaudet Research Expo, to give students, faculty, and staff \"the opportunity to share ideas and showcase scholarly pursuits and achievements.\" Presentations represent \"education, linguistics, STM, neuroscience, interpretation and translation, computer science, audiology, psychology, deaf studies, and other fields that reflect Gallaudet's research priorities.\" The third Gallaudet RExpo will be held in October 2018.\n\nGallaudet University Press publishes two academic journals, \"American Annals of the Deaf\" (est. 1847) and \"Sign Language Studies\" (est. 1972). The \"Annals\" are \"the oldest and most widely read English-language journal dealing with deafness and the education of deaf persons.\"\n\nThe Department of Psychology's chapter of Psi Chi publishes the journal \"Gallaudet Chronicles of Psychology\". The journal is managed and edited by graduate student members of the chapter. The \"Chronicles\" are designed to \"mimic professional, peer-reviewed journals\" and provides graduate students with an opportunity disseminate their original psychology research. In 2018, the chapter will be publishing the fifth volume of the \"Chronicles\".\n\nIn the fall of 2010, the university's Department of Deaf Studies launched the \"Deaf Studies Digital Journal\" (DSDJ), the first peer-reviewed academic and creative arts journal in American Sign Language and English. The DSDJ itself is published in entirely video-based content and is available online. To date, only four issues of DSDJ have been released, the most recent being published in 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57943971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57943971", "title": "Gates to the Temple of Medamud", "text": "Gates to the Temple of Medamud\n\nGates to the Temple of Medamud are two monumental gateways to the Ptolemaic-era phase of the Temple of Montu at Medamud, located to the north of Luxor on the right bank of the Nile. They are now in the collections of the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon.\n\nThe earlier of the two, the Gate of Ptolemy III, is only partly conserved but retains traces of its paintwork. Its bas-reliefs suggest it marked the entrance to an offerings room inside the temple. The later gate, the Gate of Ptolemy IV, could be wholly reconstructed and probably marked one of the main entrances to the temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "4062800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4062800", "title": "List of Secretary-General of the United Nations memoirs", "text": "List of Secretary-General of the United Nations memoirs\n\nThe United Nations Secretary-General is the head of the Secretariat, one of the principal divisions of the United Nations. Many of the individuals who have served as the world body's top office have written memoirs, either before, during or after their terms of office. \n"}
{"id": "55230184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55230184", "title": "List of highest-income urban neighborhoods in the United States", "text": "List of highest-income urban neighborhoods in the United States\n\nThis is only one measure of affluence and not necessarily the most suitable for all purposes. Different measures, such as mean income per capita, would produce different lists.\n\n"}
{"id": "35083537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35083537", "title": "List of medical ethics cases", "text": "List of medical ethics cases\n\nSome cases have been remarkable for starting broad discussion and for setting precedent in medical ethics.\n"}
{"id": "12739776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12739776", "title": "Malaysian folk religion", "text": "Malaysian folk religion\n\nMalaysian folk religion refers to the animistic and polytheistic beliefs and practices that are still held by many in the Islamic-majority country of Malaysia. Malaysian folk faith is practiced either openly or covertly depending on the type of rituals performed. \n\nSome forms of belief are not recognised by the government as a religion for statistical purposes although such practices are not outlawed. There is a deep interaction between the Chinese folk religion of the large Malaysian Chinese population, and the indigenous Malaysian folk religion.\n\nThere are different types of Malaysian folk religion practised throughout the country. Shamanic performances are held by people known as \"dukuns\", otherwise also known as \"dukun\" or \"pawang\". Most Orang Asli (indigenous people) are animists and believe in spirits residing in certain objects. However, some have recently converted to mainstream religions due to state-sponsored Muslim dawah or evangelism by Christian missionaries.\n\nIn Indonesia, indigenous religions are also practised by various Bornean tribal groups. Chinese Indonesians generally practice folk religion, which is also animistic in nature. The word \"bomoh\" has been used throughout the country to describe any person with knowledge or power to perform certain spiritual rituals including traditional healing, and as a substitute for the word \"shaman\". Generally speaking, Indonesians have deep superstitious beliefs, especially more so in the rural areas.\n\nHistorically, before the arrival and spread of Islam in the 15th century, and the spread of Christianity from the 19th century, the inhabitants in the land were either Hindu or practiced indigenous faiths. In the peninsula, widespread Islamization is said to have begun in 1409 after Parameswara became Sultan of Malacca and converted to Islam after marrying a princess from the Samudera Pasai Sultanate. Since then, other Sultanates in the Malay peninsula have adopted Islam. Also since then, and continuing after the independence of Malaysia, Islam played a central role in Malaysian society.\n\nSimilarly in East Malaysia, folk religion was widespread prior to the arrival of Christian missionaries from Europe. The practice of headhunting was quite common in these societies.\n\nIn Sabah, the Kadazan-Dusuns worshipped Kinoingan, a rice deity, and celebrate Kaamatan, the harvest festival, every year. During Kaamatan, there are certain rituals which has to be carried out by the high priestesses known as \"bobohizans\" (or \"bobolian\" in the Bundu-Liwan dialect of Dusun). Today, most Kadazan-Dusuns have adopted Christianity, but some still celebrate Kaamatan. However, the number of bobohizans has tremendously dropped and this role is on the brink of extinction. \n\nIn Sarawak, it has been said that the animism practised by the Ibans and other related groups is the most developed, elaborated, and intellectualised in the world. Folk religious practice in East Malaysia is related to the religion of Kaharingan in Kalimantan, Indonesia, which has been recognised as an official religion by the Indonesian government. However, the rituals involved are not entirely similar with variations depending on the ethnic subgroups which practices it.\n\nThe shamans \"bomohs\" or witch doctors still practice their craft in Malaysia. The bomoh practice by Malays have been integrated into Islam and is not forbidden. They are also known as traditional healers and sometimes serve as an alternative to conventional modern medicine. However, the practice has sometimes been viewed negatively by Malaysian society as in some instances bomohs have the power to cast spells (jampi) and have used them on other people with ill effects. The number practitioners of bomohs has also dropped.\n\nThe bobohizans of Sabah are also shamans and are traditional healers. They also act as a medium to communicate with spirits and play an important role in the rituals involved during Kaamatan, a harvest festival celebration of the Kadazan-Dusun.\n\nRecently there has been suggestions for the need and importance to preserve the practice of bomohs and other shamans as traditional healers and to complement or substitute conventional modern medicine.\n\nTua Pek Kong (, Hakka: Thai phak koong, Hokkien: Tuā-peh-kong, . lit. \"grand uncle\") is one of the pantheon of Malaysian Chinese deities. He is believed to have arrived in Penang 40 years before Francis Light in 1746. \n\nTua Pek Kong is said to have been a Hakka named Zhang Li (). His Sumatra-bound boat was struck by wind and accidentally landed on Penang off Malaysia, which at that time had only 50 inhabitants. After his death, the local people began worshipping him and built the Tua Pek Kong temple there. Today Tua Pek Kong is worshipped by Malaysian Chinese throughout the country.\n\nToday most of the Chinese population in Malaysia are Mahayana Buddhist, while the rest are Confucianist, Taoist, Christians, and a small number of Muslims and Hindus. Most Chinese Malaysians still adhere to Chinese folk religion or veneration of the dead in tandem with mainstream religious practices. \n\nSome have stopped practising this religion after adopting a mainstream religion which prohibits animism or idolatry. As is the case in China, the practice of this religion is not documented by the government for statistics purpose. Thus the number of followers in Malaysia can only be estimated.\n\n\nRegional:\n"}
{"id": "1383618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1383618", "title": "Mama and papa", "text": "Mama and papa\n\nIn linguistics, mama and papa are considered a special case of false cognates. In many languages of the world, sequences of sounds similar to and mean \"mother\" and \"father\", usually but not always in that order. This is thought to be a coincidence resulting from the process of early language acquisition.\n\nThese terms use speech sounds that are among the easiest to produce: bilabials like , , and , and the open vowel . They are, therefore, often among the first word-like sounds made by babbling babies (babble words), and parents tend to associate the first sound babies make with themselves and to employ them subsequently as part of their baby-talk lexicon. Thus, there is no need to ascribe to common ancestry the similarities of !Kung \"ba\", Aramaic \"abba\", Mandarin Chinese \"bàba\", and Persian \"baba\" (all \"father\"); or Navajo \"amá\", Mandarin Chinese \"māma\", Swahili \"mama\", Quechua \"mama\", and Polish \"mama\" (all \"mother\"). For the same reason, some scientists believe that 'mama' and 'papa' were among the first words that humans spoke. However, there is nothing of motherhood or fatherhood inherent in the sounds.\n\nVariants using other sounds do occur: for example, in Fijian, the word for \"mother\" is \"nana\", the Turkish word is \"ana\", and in Old Japanese, the word for \"mother\" was \"papa\". The modern Japanese word for \"father,\" \"chichi\", is from older \"titi\". Very few languages lack labial consonants (this mostly being attested on a family basis, in the Iroquoian and some of the Athabaskan languages), and only Arapaho is known to lack an open vowel /a/. The Tagalog \"-na-\" / \"-ta-\" (\"mom\" / \"dad\" words) parallel the more common \"ma\" / \"pa\" in nasality / orality of the consonants and identity of place of articulation. \n\nThe linguist Roman Jakobson hypothesized that the nasal sound in \"mama\" comes from the nasal murmur that babies produce when breastfeeding:\n\n'Mama' and 'papa' in different languages:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the Proto-Indo-European language, \"*mā́tēr\" (modern reconstruction: \"*méh₂tēr\") meant \"mother\" and \"*pǝtḗr\" (modern reconstruction: \"*ph₂tḗr\") meant \"father\", and \"átta\" meant \"papa\", a nursery word for \"father\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2282348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282348", "title": "Master of Arts in Theological Studies", "text": "Master of Arts in Theological Studies\n\nDescription\n<br>\nThe Master of Arts in Theological Studies (MATS) satisfies a variety of broad academic and vocational purposes. It can be suited to the pastor, layman or beginning academic as an entry level Master's Degree in theology. It is often geared toward individuals seeking an introductory graduate degree in religion for service in a supportive role in their local congregation. Depending upon the school, the program can vary from as little as 36 semester/54 quarter hours up to 48 semester/72 quarter hours typically. It may or may not include a thesis, capstone or summation. Frequently, it is a classwork only degree.\n\nPrograms of Study\n<br>\nThe degree may take several differing forms such as:\nM.A.T.S. (General theology degree non-specified)\nBiblical Studies\nSystematic Theology\nOld Testament\nNew Testament\nHistorical Theology\nChristian Apologetics\n\nAccreditation\n<br>\nThe Master of Arts in Theological Studies is a degree recognized by accrediting agencies such as the ATS (Association of Theological Schools), TRACS (the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools), the ABHE (Association for Biblical Higher Education) and other accrediting bodies. It is classified as a Category D: Basic Program Oriented Toward General Theological Studies by the ATS (Association of Theological Schools).\n\nDegree Status\n<br>\nWhile requiring only about 1/2 to 2/3 of the credit hours that are required of a M.Div (Master of Divinity), it is generally considered equal as a prerequisite for entering advanced degree programs such as for an STM (Master of Sacred Theology) or doctoral studies. However, the student will likely be required to know (or learn remedially) Greek, Hebrew, Latin, German or another modern language in order to enter an advanced degree program if they haven't learned these yet.\n"}
{"id": "33861995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33861995", "title": "Michel Baud", "text": "Michel Baud\n\nMichel Baud (11 November 1963 – 13 September 2012) was a French Egyptologist, head of the Nubian Sudan section in the Department of Egyptian Antiquities of the Louvre Museum. As such, he was the organizer of an exhibition devoted exclusively to Meroe, Sudan's ancient kingdom known for its legendary capital city and its famous royal necropolis. He was also the director of the archaeological mission on the site of the necropolis at Abu Rawash, and published papers on it such as \"La ceramique miniature d'Abou Rawash\". \n\nBaud died suddenly on 13 September 2012 at the age of 49.\n\n"}
{"id": "4640253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4640253", "title": "Mr. Tickle", "text": "Mr. Tickle\n\nMr. Tickle is the first book in the \"Mr. Men\" series by Roger Hargreaves, published 10 August 1971.\n\nThe story was originally based on a question by his son, Adam Hargreaves, who asked what a tickle would look like.\n\nMr. Tickle's story begins with him in bed and making himself breakfast without getting up because of his \"extraordinarily long arms\". He then decides that it is a tickling sort of day and thus journeys around town tickling people – a teacher, a policeman, a greengrocer, a child, a station guard, a pilot, a doctor, a butcher and a postman. The book ends with a warning that Mr. Tickle could be lurking around your doorway, waiting to tickle you or your children.\n\nIt is a relatively unusual Mr. Men book in that the main character gets up to some naughty behaviour, yet there is no corrective action taken to mend his mischievous ways; thus, Mr. Tickle is left free to tickle another day and learns nothing from it.\n\nMr. Tickle appears under the titles:\nIn the 2008 TV series \"The Mr. Men Show\", Mr. Tickle remains relatively the same in looks, though his hat has a stripe and his arms are normally sized, but can stretch out when needed. However, he tickles other Mr. Men and Little Misses (due to the obvious absence of humans in Dillydale). As far as character traits go, he is still determined to tickle everyone he interacts with, but instead of doing it for mischief he does it to make people happy and will stop when nobody wants him to tickle them, save for when the opportunity knocks with Mr. Grumpy, who appears to be his favorite target. He also gets his own catchphrase, \"Somebody needs a tickle!\" In the US and UK Versions, he is voiced by Jeff Stewart and Rob Rackstraw.\n\n"}
{"id": "50774405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50774405", "title": "Nancy Kress bibliography", "text": "Nancy Kress bibliography\n\nA partial bibliography of American science fiction author Nancy Kress.\n\n\n\n\nThe Probability series, also known as Faller's War, is loosely based on Kress' Nebula Award-winning novelette \"The Flowers of Aulit Prison\", published in the October/November 1996 issue of \"Asimov’s Science Fiction\" \n\n\nPublished under the name \"Anna Kendall\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15850906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15850906", "title": "Nosism", "text": "Nosism\n\nNosism, from the Latin \"nos\", \"we\", is the practice of using the pronoun \"we\" to refer to oneself when expressing a personal opinion.\n\nDepending on the person using the nosism different uses can be distinguished:\n\nThe royal \"we\" (\"pluralis majestatis\") refers to a single person holding a high office, such as a monarch, bishop, or pope.\n\nThe editorial \"we\" is a similar phenomenon, in which an editorial columnist in a newspaper or a similar commentator in another medium refers to themselves as \"we\" when giving their opinion. Here, the writer casts themselves in the role of a spokesperson: either for the media institution that employs them, or more generally on behalf of the party or body of citizens who agree with the commentary.\n\nSimilar to the editorial \"we\", \"pluralis modestiae\" is the practice common in mathematical and scientific literature of referring to a generic third person by \"we\" (instead of the more common \"one\" or the informal \"you\"):\n\n\"We\" in this sense often refers to \"the reader and the author,\" since the author often assumes that the reader knows and agrees with certain principles or previous theorems for the sake of brevity (or, if not, the reader is prompted to look them up).\n\nThis practice is discouraged in the social sciences because it fails to distinguish between sole authorship and co-authorship.\n\n"}
{"id": "4206188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4206188", "title": "Penned in the Margins", "text": "Penned in the Margins\n\nPenned in the Margins is an independent publisher and live literature producer. Based in London, it specialises in contemporary poetry and spoken word, but operates across all artforms.\n\nSince 2004 Penned in the Margins has produced and commissioned a diverse range of events, projects and productions: sell-out music and poetry nights at The Spitz; London Lip and Visions of the City at the Bishopsgate Institute; Salt Margins and Stress Fractures Performance Lectures at the Whitechapel Gallery; UK tours of Generation Txt (Joe Dunthorne, Inua Ellams, Laura Forman, Abigail Oborne, Emma McGordon, James Wilkes), Found in Translation (Joe Dunthorne, Ross Sutherland, Tim Clare) and Kalagora by Siddhartha Bose; and a series of literary salons at Aubin & Wills. Penned in the Margins Director Tom Chivers was Co-Director of London Word Festival from 2008 to 2011, and is also a writer.\n\nPenned in the Margins has worked in partnership with a range of organisations in literature and the arts, including Arts Council England, Poetry Society, Poetry London, Free Word Centre, Resonance FM, Jewish Book Week, London Borough of Ealing, Writers' Centre Norwich, Spread the Word and Salt Publishing.\n\nPenned in the Margins has published works by Simon Barraclough, Siddhartha Bose, David Caddy, J.R. Carpenter, Emily Critchley, Michael Egan, SC Gordon, Sarah Hesketh, Steven J. Fowler, Tamsin Kendrick, Luke Kennard, Stephanie Leal, Roddy Lumsden, Melissa Lee-Houghton, Chris McCabe, Gemma Seltzer, Steve Spence, Rob Stanton, Ross Sutherland, Claire Trevien, George Ttoouli, James Wilkes.\n\nThey also published the anthologies \"Generation Txt\" and \"City State: New London Poetry\"; and the critical book \"Stress Fractures: Essays on Poetry\", all edited by Tom Chivers. The 2012 anthology \"Adventures in Form\" was awarded a Special Commendation from the Poetry Book Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "5761728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5761728", "title": "Praat", "text": "Praat\n\nPraat (; , \"\"talk\"\") is a free computer software package for the scientific analysis of speech in phonetics. It was designed, and continues to be developed, by Paul Boersma and David Weenink of the University of Amsterdam. It can run on a wide range of operating systems, including various versions of Unix, Linux, Mac and Microsoft Windows (2000, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10). The program supports speech synthesis, including articulatory synthesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "192281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192281", "title": "Pronunciation", "text": "Pronunciation\n\nPronunciation is the way in which a word or a language is spoken. This may refer to generally agreed-upon sequences of sounds used in speaking a given word or language in a specific dialect (\"correct pronunciation\"), or simply the way a particular individual speaks a word or language.\n\nA word can be spoken in different ways by various individuals or groups, depending on many factors, such as: the duration of the cultural exposure of their childhood, the location of their current residence, speech or voice disorders, their ethnic group, their social class, or their education.\n\nSyllables are counted as units of sound (phones) that they use in their language. The branch of linguistics which studies these units of sound is phonetics. Phones which play the same role are grouped together into classes called phonemes; the study of these is phonemics or phonematics or phonology. Phones as components of articulation are usually described using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35391721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35391721", "title": "Public interest law", "text": "Public interest law\n\nPublic interest law loosely, refers to legal practices undertaken to help poor or marginalized people, or to effect change in social policies in the public interest, on 'not for profit' terms (\"pro bono publico\"). In general terms it means a legal action initiated in the court of law for the protection of Public Interest.\n\nIt is not a body of law or a legal field, matters lawyers work on. Rather, it denotes the clientele they represent. Instead of serving powerful economic interests, it stands for the advocacy of otherwise under-represented or vulnerable individuals, especially those living in poverty. It has grown to encompass a broader range of activities, typically the field of non-lawyers like civil rights, civil liberties, women's rights, consumer rights, environmental protection, and so on. Nevertheless, a common ethic for public-interest lawyers in a growing number of countries remains “fighting for the little guy”.\n\nAt the end of the communist period in the early 1990s, the national legal systems of Central and Eastern Europe were still in a formative stage. The most important source of legal authority for the new human rights groups came from outside the region: the Council of Europe, with its European Convention on Human Rights, and the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nOver time, in the mid-1990s, U.S. experiences became more relevant. The Council of Europe's prerequisite that lawyers use their own country's courts first to seek legal remedies before turning to the European bodies gradually became more than a pro forma exercise, and civil society organizations began to make more effective use of domestic means of adjudication. But by the time local activists were ready to consider the utility of impact litigation, test cases, and other tactics familiar from the U.S. experience, they already understood that their ultimate tactical weapon in any piece of litigation was to use the threat or reality of a supportive decision at the European Court of Human Rights. With this background in mind, it made more sense for the promoters of public interest law in Central and Eastern Europe to talk about \"strategic litigation\" than about public interest litigation. Using the instrumentality of the European Court of Human Rights effectively required a strategic approach. Not all human rights cases were likely to receive a favorable ruling; a negative ruling could produce more damage to the human rights cause than no ruling at all. The European Court had a rich case law that could provide clues to how a future case might be decided, and there were procedural aspects, such as the requirement to exhaust domestic remedies, to consider.\n\nThe core lesson from the U.S. experience for local activists was how courts could be used effectively as a tool for civil society engagement in governance.\nThe changes to the Italian electoral law from 2014 to 2017 were both \"caused by actions born from the bottom (...) the result of a methodical, studied and concerted action. It has been featured by university professors, constitutional and electoral law-makers, parliamentarians and other elected representatives (...), representatives of civil society and ordinary citizens. Their names are, as voters, in more than twenty introductory pleadings (quotations or appeals)\", all of them brought pro bono.\n\nPublic interest law (公益法, pronounced Gong Yi Fa) is an accepted term in China, where the basic institutions supporting the rule of law are still extremely nascent. China does not have a common-law system in which lawyers are expected to play a key role in “making law.” Nevertheless, a small but effective community of lawyers has gained acceptance of public interest litigation as a legitimate means of resolving social issues and contributing to a harmonious society, and non-governmental actors have significantly improved the enforcement of rights for migrant workers, women, children and those suffering from environmental degradation, among others. For example, public interest lawyers in China have filed lawsuits in court successfully challenging workplace sexual harassment and the involuntary confinement of healthy people to mental hospitals.\n\nChinese reformers believe that one avenue for speeding the development of public interest law is implementing an associational standing rule by which organizations can instigate lawsuits to protect the interests of its members. Currently, China’s Civil Procedure Law is undergoing revision. One of the proposed amendments would create a form of associational standing. In theory, the new law would give domestic NGOs the power to file lawsuits in their own name on behalf of their members, but the proposed amendment has engendered spirited debate and its fate is unclear.\n\nIn Hong Kong public interest law is an emerging field. The chief vehicle for pursuing public interest claims is judicial review. This is the process by which decisions of the government are challenged in the courts. There has been a surge in judicial review cases since 2000. Environmental issues and minority rights are among the most litigated areas.\n\nOne of the pioneers in public interest law in Hong Kong was Pamela Baker. In the late 1980s she litigated a series of landmark courtroom cases challenging the government’s treatment of Vietnamese refugees. In 1995 the Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor was established with the aim of promoting better human rights protection in Hong Kong. Today, the majority of cause lawyers who represent citizens and social groups in human rights and public policy litigation on a consistent basis in Hong Kong are also members of political parties or active participants in social movements outside the courts.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the Legal Aid Department provides funding to legal services for those who pass the means and merits test. The two Legal Aid Schemes that it operates, namely the Ordinary Legal Aid Scheme (OLAS) and the Supplementary Legal Aid Scheme (SLAS) have facilitated the practice of public interest law through narrowing the resource inequality between economically disadvantaged litigants and the government. However, NGOs and charitable organizations are not eligible to get legal aid. The NGOs and Charitable organizations contributed to opening of avenues for people who deserved justice but lacked interest to approach courts and helped them in becoming petitioners to get justice.\n\nApart from legal aid, the Hong Kong Bar Association and The Law Society of Hong Kong jointly provides the Duty Lawyer Scheme which offers free legal representation to eligible defendants on the first day of court appearance. They also run the Free Legal Advice Scheme at their Legal Advice Centres within nine District Offices in Hong Kong with the aim to provide one-off preliminary legal advice to the general public without imposing any means test. The Hong Kong Bar Association and The Law Society of Hong Kong operate their own Bar Free Legal Service Scheme and Free Legal Consultation Scheme respectively where enrolled law firms and barristers specializing in different fields volunteer to give consultations on a pro bono basis.\n\nIn addition, unlike in the United States where NGOs and public interest law groups routinely bring public interest lawsuits on behalf of aggrieved individuals, in-house counsel working in NGOs and charities in Hong Kong are not allowed to directly represent the people these organizations serve. Some commentators believe that the inability of NGOs to directly represent clients in legal proceedings has dampened the growth of public interest law in Hong Kong.\n\nLaw schools in Hong Kong also organize various programs to promote the idea of \"pro bono\" legal service to students. Pro bono committees of law firms in Hong Kong also meet on a bimonthly basis in the Hong Kong Legal Community Roundtable, a forum for international law firms to discuss development of pro bono work in Hong Kong and the region.\n\n\"Public Interest Litigation\" or PIL right since its inception in the Indian judicial system, has shown some good examples of safeguarding the rights of the people of India and has strengthened the position of the Supreme Court of India as preeminent guardian of Fundamental Rights enumerated in the Indian Constitution. It was introduced in India around 1979-80 by the Supreme Court judges, Justice V. R. Krishna Iyer along with Justice P. N. Bhagwati. And since then there had been instances when the Courts are keen to decide the matters of public importance without delay, as the case in Shyam sundar where the court accepted the matter even when the application was made by a letter sent through post.\n\n“Public interest law” is a term that became widely adopted in the United States during and after the social turmoil of the 1960s. It built on a tradition exemplified by Louis Brandeis, who before becoming a U.S. Supreme Court justice incorporated advocacy for the interests of the general public into his legal practice. In a celebrated 1905 speech, Brandeis decried the legal profession, complaining that “able lawyers have to a large extent allowed themselves to become adjuncts of great corporations and have neglected their obligation to use their powers for the protection of the people.” In the late 1960s and 1970s, large numbers of American law school graduates began to seek “relevance” in their work—wishing to affect the social issues that were so visibly and hotly debated within American society at that time. They defined themselves as public interest lawyers in order to distinguish themselves from the “corporate adjuncts” referred to by Brandeis.\n\nSumming up the movement's history in the United States, Stanford University Law Professor Deborah Rhode writes: \"Public interest lawyers have saved lives, protected fundamental rights, established crucial principles, transformed institutions, and ensured essential benefits for those who need them most...In virtually every major American social reform movement of the last half century, public interest lawyers have played an important role.\"\nPublic interest law is institutionalized in the United States(USA). Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that work to promote and protect human rights using the U.S. legal system, fight to protect the environment, or advocate on behalf of consumers, call themselves public interest law organizations. A large community of lawyers practices public interest law in the form of providing legal aid free of charge to those who cannot afford to pay for it. However, the grim reality remains that lawyers are underpaid and grossly overworked, offering perfunctory representation. Clinical legal education, which is well established in the United States, provides opportunities for law students to do practical legal work on basic legal matters as well as more complex public interest issues, such as women’s rights, anti-discrimination law, constitutional rights, and environmental protection, among others. Some law schools have public interest law centers, which advise law students interested in pursuing public interest law careers. Pro bono programs at bar associations and law firms provide opportunities for commercial lawyers to donate time to public interest law activities.\n\nIn law, public interest is a defence against certain lawsuits (for instance some libel suits in the United Kingdom) and an exemption from certain laws or regulations (for instance freedom of information laws in the UK). Also, judges in common law systems can make judgements on the grounds of public policy, a related term.\n\n\n\"Note: This Bibliography is adapted from \"Public Interest Law Practice: A Selective Bibliography,\"a project of the Public Interest Law Committee at Rutgers School of Law, Newark, compiled by Paul Axel-Lute.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5064328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5064328", "title": "Puppetista", "text": "Puppetista\n\nPuppetista is a word coined in 2000 by a group of puppeteers who make and use puppets in street theater and political demonstrations. Formed by combining the words \"puppet\" and Zapatista, the term originated in the Northeastern United States and quickly picked up use in the South, Midwest and on the West Coast of the United States, as well as in Mexico, Cuba and Brazil, to describe a social movement of revolutionary artists and their work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39558322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39558322", "title": "Rami Hamdallah", "text": "Rami Hamdallah\n\nRami Hamdallah (; born 10 August 1958) is a Palestinian politician and academic. He is the Prime Minister of the Palestinian National Authority and president of An-Najah National University in Nablus.\n\nOn 2 June 2013, the Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas named him to succeed Salam Fayyad as prime minister. His appointment was not recognized by Hamas, who were not consulted in the decision. He is a member of Fatah; however, the BBC states that he is a political independent. On 20 June 2013, Hamdallah tendered his resignation, which Abbas accepted on 23 June. Six weeks after that, Abbas asked Hamdallah to form a new government, which he did on 19 September 2013. He was appointed the head of the Palestinian government of 2014 on 2 June 2014.\n\nRami Hamdallah was born in Anabta in the northern Palestine on 10 August 1958. He graduated from the University of Jordan in 1980 and received his MA from the University of Manchester in 1982. Hamdallah completed a PhD in linguistics at Lancaster University in 1988.\n\nHamdallah, widely known as Abu Walid ('Father of Walid', after one of his deceased children) is a professor at An-Najah National University, where he was hired in 1982 as English instructor. He was appointed president of the university in 1998. During his 15 years' term, he tripled the student enrollment, which now numbers 20,000 students on 4 campuses. He also opened a 400-bed teaching hospital. He served as the secretary general of Palestinian Central Elections Commission from 2002 to 2013. He was the commission's deputy chairman in 2011. He was sworn in as prime minister on 6 June 2013 and replaced Salam Fayyad in the post. Only two weeks into the job, however, Hamdallah tendered his resignation, reportedly as result of interference with Hamdallah's authority by Abbas' aides. On 23 June 2013, Abbas accepted Hamdallah's resignation, but appointed him as the head of the interim government. Hamdallah's resignation was praised by Mohammed Dajani, the founder of the Wastia Movement of Moderate Islam in the West Bank, who stated that \"I respect him for taking this decision. They thought he would be window dressing and he would not accept that.\"\n\nSix weeks after Hamdallah's resignation, Abbas asked him to form a new government, which he did on 19 September 2013.\n\nOn March 13, 2018, he escaped assassination during his visit to the Gaza Strip.\n\nThree of his children, 11-year-old twins and a 9-year-old boy, were killed in a car accident. He believes the only investment Palestinians can make is in education.\n"}
{"id": "41473544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41473544", "title": "Reed Tech", "text": "Reed Tech\n\nReed Technology and Information Services Inc. is a company that provides electronic content management services, engaging in data capture and conversion, preservation, analysis, e-submission and publication for corporate, legal and government clients. The company was founded in 1961 and is based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, with an additional office in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nThe company was incorporated in 1966 as International Computaprint Corporation (ICC). In 1969, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) contracted ICC to develop and operate a computer system for use in the patent publishing process. As part of the company's core business in managing and converting data, the company launched the ReedFax service in 1992, making copies of U.S. and foreign patent and trademark documents available to law firms, corporate legal departments and patent practitioners.\n\nIn 1995, the company changed its name to Reed Technology and Information Services Inc.\n\nWhen the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) mandated that all prescription drug labeling information must be submitted in Structured Product Labeling eXtensible Markup Language (SPL XML) format in 2005, Reed Tech created an SPL XML submission solution for the pharmaceutical sciences and other life sciences industries, for which the company won a 2010 CIO100 Award. The company also achieved Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) certification for its data center operations in 2006.\n\nIn 2012, Reed Technology achieved SOC2 SSAE-16 accreditation from the AICPA.\n\nAs a LexisNexis company, Reed Tech specializes in the field of content management and intellectual property services in the areas of life sciences, patent prosecution, research and analysis.\n\nThe Reed Tech Intellectual Property products span a range of capabilities, including data capture and conversion, preservation, analysis, e-submission and publication for corporate, legal and government clients. In 2013, Reed Tech, in collaboration with PatentCore, announced the launch of the PatentAdvisor service, designed to deliver searchable and actionable data for patent attorneys and IP-driven companies focused on the prosecution and management of patents by providing searchable, filterable access to historical behavior data for nearly every U.S. patent examiner and art unit. In addition, document retrieval, translations, and research and analysis of U.S. and international patent documents are offered through the company's IP Services (formerly ReedFax).\n\nThe company's Life Sciences products focus on electronic data conversion and submissions to regulatory agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a solution for the FDA’s Structured Product Labeling (SPL) format and the XEVMPD format for the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Since the inception of SPL in 2005, Reed Tech has worked closely with the pharmaceutical industry and the FDA, and is a member of the Health Level 7 (HL7) working group. Utilizing the SPL XML format, Reed Tech also offers label printing and publishing solutions, allowing pharmaceutical companies to reuse FDA-approved drug labels for printed marketing and manufacturing materials.\n\nReed Tech helps companies find detailed human and animal health drug product label information online with its PDR3D digital drug database and LabelDataPlus.com.\n\nIn September 2013, the FDA issued a final rule requiring medical device manufacturers to provide a Unique Device Identification (UDI) to a centralized Global UDI (GUDID) database, much like the FDA's SPL database. Reed Tech has developed a UDI / GUDID solution to meet the growing demand from device firms for help in complying with the time- and resource-intensive submission process.\n"}
{"id": "5724941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5724941", "title": "Religious assimilation", "text": "Religious assimilation\n\nReligious assimilation refers to the adoption of a majority or dominant culture's religious practices and beliefs by a minority or subordinate culture. It is an important form of cultural assimilation.\n\nReligious assimilation includes the religious conversion of individuals from a minority faith to the dominant faith. It can also include the religious indoctrination of children into a dominant religion by their converted parents. However, religious assimilation need not involve wholesale adoption of a dominant religious belief system by a minority; the concept is broad enough to include alterations in the frequency of religious participation to match that of the dominant culture. Indeed, religious assimilation among immigrant groups most commonly involves such minor changes, rather than sweeping change in religious belief systems.\n\nIn sharp contrast to other aspects of cultural assimilation such as language and nationality, dominant cultures in general tend not to expect immigrants to adopt the dominant religion. Some researchers, such as Will Herberg, have advanced a thesis of perpetual religious pluralism, to the effect that immigrants would typically retain their religious affiliation even after complete cultural assimilation in other aspects of culture. Nevertheless, some dominant cultures may exert pressures for religious assimilation so extreme as to amount, according to some researchers, to a form of religious persecution. These pressures may be exerted by making other, more appealing forms of cultural assimilation, such as membership in secular social club activities, so time-consuming that they interfere seriously with attendance at minority religious services, and by discouraging expression of minority religious beliefs in public.\n\n"}
{"id": "9897266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9897266", "title": "Repoussoir", "text": "Repoussoir\n\nIn two-dimensional works of art, such as painting, printmaking, photography or bas-relief, repoussoir (, \"pushing back\") is an object along the right or left foreground that directs the viewer's eye into the composition by bracketing (framing) the edge. It became popular with Mannerist and Baroque artists, and is found frequently in Dutch seventeenth-century landscape paintings. Jacob van Ruisdael, for example, often included a tree along one side to enclose the scene (see illustration). Figures are also commonly employed as \"repoussoir\" devices by artists such as Paolo Veronese, Peter Paul Rubens and Impressionists such as Gustave Caillebotte.\n"}
{"id": "49036721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49036721", "title": "Robert Silverberg bibliography", "text": "Robert Silverberg bibliography\n\nList of the published work of Robert Silverberg, American science fiction author.\n\nBy publication date except Majipoor (1980 to present)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23224108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23224108", "title": "STSAT-2A", "text": "STSAT-2A\n\nSTSAT-2A (Science and Technology Satellite 2A) was a satellite launched by the Korea Aerospace Research Institute (KARI), the national space agency of South Korea, from the Naro Space Center in Goheung County, South Jeolla using the Naro-1 (KSLV-1) rocket.\n\nThe satellite carried a Lyman-alpha Imaging Solar Telescope (LIST) as well as Satellite laser ranging (SLR) payload.\n\nThe Satellite Technology Research Center (SaTReC) developed STSAT-2A as a sun observation, satellite laser ranging and engineering and technology demonstration sponsored by the Ministry of Science and Technology. It was expected to be operational for about two years, and was scheduled to be launched between 2005 and 2007.\n\nThe Satellite Laser Ranging (SLR) instrument was intended to measure the orbit of STSAT-2A, in order to investigate variations in its orbit.\n\nIt was a followup to STSAT-1, which was launched using a Kosmos-3M rocket on September 27, 2003. Originally a Dual-channel Radiometers for Earth and Atmosphere Monitoring (DREAM) Microwave radiometer was intended as the principal payload of STSAT-2A for an expected launch in 2007. The Laser Retro-reflector Array (LRA) was described as an early expected payload for STSAT-2A which would consist of nine retro-reflectors in a mechanical casing.\n\nSTSAT-2A has three missions, the indigenous research and development to place a satellite into low orbit, development of indigenous spacecraft, and the ability to develop scientific payloads.\n\nSTSAT-2A was launched on the maiden flight of the Naro-1 rocket, which lifted off the Naro Space Centre, on the southern coast of South Korea at 08:00 GMT on 25 August 2009. The launch failed to place STSAT-2 into orbit after half of the payload fairing failed to separate. This resulted in the second stage being too heavy to reach orbit, and it fell back to Earth along with the satellite. Further investigation is ongoing. A second satellite, STSAT-2B, was launched on June 10, 2010, but the launch vehicle failed again.\n\n"}
{"id": "37352354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37352354", "title": "Sandy River Valley Sign Language", "text": "Sandy River Valley Sign Language\n\nSandy River Valley Sign Language was a village sign language of the 19th-century Sandy River Valley in Maine. Together with the more famous Martha's Vineyard Sign Language and Henniker Sign Language, it was one of three local languages which formed the basis of American Sign Language.\n\nThe deaf communities in the valley developed in some of the 30 villages founded by settlers from Martha's Vineyard. However, it is not clear whether MVSL itself was transmitted, or if the chain was broken and a new sign language was created once a substantial deaf population was established.\n\n"}
{"id": "16695914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16695914", "title": "Saïd Amir Arjomand", "text": "Saïd Amir Arjomand\n\nSaïd Amir Arjomand (Persian: سعید امیر ارجمند) is an Iranian-American scholar and Distinguished Service Professor of Sociology at the State University of New York (SUNY) in Stony Brook, Long Island, and Director of the Stony Brook Institute for Global Studies. He received his Ph.D. in 1980 from the University of Chicago.\n\nArjomand is the founder and current President of the Association for the Study of Persianate Societies (ASPS) and founding Editor of the \"Journal of Persianate Studies\".\n\n\n\nhttp://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/sociology/people/faculty/arjomand.html\n\n"}
{"id": "6540171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6540171", "title": "Tatul", "text": "Tatul\n\nTatul (, the local name for \"Datura stramonium\") is a village in Momchilgrad municipality, Kardzhali Province located in the Eastern Rhodopes in southern Bulgaria. It is lies at 319 m above sea level at , 15 km east of Momchilgrad, and has a population of 189 people. Most of the houses were built of well-cut stone blocks.\n\nIn the 2000s Bulgarian archaeologists discovered an ancient Thracian surface tomb and sanctuary in the immediate proximity of the village, and it was soon recognized as an exclusive religious center in the region of importance to the whole region according to head archaeologist Nikolay Ovcharov. Latest archaeological finds date the earliest settlement to 4000 BC. According to Ovcharov, the site is the sanctuary and tomb of an influential Thracian leader who was deified after his death. He also links it with the cult of Orpheus. The ancient sources describe the ritual of burying leaders overground, on the top of a hill (as opposed to in a mound), as extremely rare, mentioning only Orpheus and Rhesus as two of the leaders who were buried this way and as Orpheus was buried in Leibethra close to Olympus, Greece it only leaves Rhesus as a candidate though both of the characters are mythological and may have never existed.\n\nAround 30 clay altars and other items from the 19th-18th century BC have been excavated, as well as an idol, a nude male figure from the Iron Age, proving the sanctuary was used without interruption in the period. A stone wall was erected surrounding the hill between the 4th and the 1st century BC, and the temple was constructed shortly thereafter, with the religious complex gradually expanding and the religious activity worshipping the man buried in Tatul shifting to the mausoleum that was built. Several new buildings were constructed in the 2nd-3rd century AD and the Christianization of the Rhodopes in the late 4th-early 5th century resulted in the conversion of the complex into a local ruler's domain featuring a defensive tower. The complex also suffered from two earthquakes, once in the 12th century BC and once in the 14th century AD.\n\nAs the conservation of the site began shortly after the excavations started, it is developing as a tourist destination, with the infrastructure being renewed and created and the Tatul Thracian complex already welcoming tourists.\n\nTatul Island off Robert Island, in the South Shetland Islands is named after Tatul.\n\n"}
{"id": "31804256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31804256", "title": "The Dog Pillow", "text": "The Dog Pillow\n\nInu makura or is an early-Edo period Japanese literary parody of \"The Pillow Book\" of Sei Shōnagon. The title has also been translated as The Mongrel Pillow.\n\nSei Shōnagon's observations of the Heian court at the end of the tenth-century in include passages that resemble a poetic diary, others in an essay-like style, as well as a number of poetic catalogues or . For instance, under the heading Elegant Things: 'a white coat worn over a violet waistcoat, duck eggs, shaved ice mixed with liana syrup placed in a new silver bowl, rock-crystal prayer beads, wisteria blossoms, plum blossoms covered with snow, a beautiful child eating strawberries'.\n\n\"Inu makura\" similarly comprises a number of such listings under a series of headings, although without the narrative accompaniment. Combined with the work's brevity, the effect is sustained through 'the possibilities of terseness, juxtaposition, and surprise', by repeating the same situation under a different heading, or by the subtle alteration of a situation. There are in total ninety sections, seventeen of them in the form of kyōka or 'comic waka'. The work, without colophon or title page, and dated variously between 1596 and 1607, is attributed to Hata Sōha (1550-1607), annotator of Essays in Idleness, physician to Toyotomi Hidetsugu, storyteller (otogishu) to Toyotomi Hideyoshi, and later in the employ of Tokugawa Ieyasu. An early exemplar of kanazōshi or 'booklets in the vernacular', it was printed with wooden movable type.\n\nIllustrative of the work are such sections as Things One Wishes to See: 'the moon, well-performed Noh, the furnishings of a tea house, the real thoughts of one's lover'; Interesting Things: 'Tsurezuregusa, arranging coals for the tea ceremony, a flower-viewing walk with a boy favourite'; and Things that Stand One's Hair on End: 'putting on armour in winter without underclothes'.\n\nSuch parodies were amongst the earliest genres of kanazōshi, updating and transforming Heian and later court works into \"comic versions of contemporary popular culture\". In the 1530s, , attributed to Yamazaki Sōkan and a response to the first collections of linked verse, had been infused with the haikai spirit, \"outlandish metaphor\", and \"irreverent or ribald humour\". Following on from \"Inu makura\", other parodies emerged: the of 1640; of 1653; and of 1669.\n\n"}
{"id": "47928856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47928856", "title": "The Excursion to Tilsit", "text": "The Excursion to Tilsit\n\nThe Excursion to Tilsit is a 1917 collection of short stories or novellas by the German writer Hermann Sudermann. Its German title is Litauische Geschichten, which means \"Lithuanian stories\". The book consists of four stories set in rural Lithuania in the mid 19th century. It was published in English in 1930, translated by Lewis Galantière.\n\nSeveral stories from the book have been adapted for film. Most famously, F. W. Murnau's 1927 film \"\" is loosely based on the titular story.\n\nThe Excursion to Tilsit (Die Reise nach Tilsit)\nA married man is in love with his mistress and plans to drown his wife on the way back from a trip to Tilsit. During the trip he reconciles with his wife, changes his mind and tells her about his now abandoned plan. In a fatal accident the man drowns and the wife is saved through the means the man had prepared for his own escape.\nMiks Bumbullis\nA murderer needs to visit the grave of his daughter to please the goddess of death, despite knowing that the police will be there waiting for him.\nJons and Erdma (Jons und Erdme)\nA couple become wealthy by the means of tricks and foul play. Eventually they are in turn tricked by their daughters and have to start again from zero.\nThe Hired Girl (Die Magd)\n\nMargaret Wallace of \"The Bookman\" wrote:\nLike Selma Lagerlöf, and many other novelists whose material is national and even provincial, Sudermann by his very unconcern with cosmopolitan values gives a deeper truth and meaning to the lives of his characters. Of these four stories of Lithuanian peasants, only one, \"Miks Bumbullis\", depends for its effect upon purely national traits and circumstances. They are, for the most part, founded solidly upon the fundamental and inescapable human facts of birth and love and death. They are moving and tragic and, above all, intensely and vividly alive.\n\n\"The Outlook\" reviewed the book:\n\"Excursion to Tilsit\" by Hermann Sudermann is a collection of powerful short stories dealing with the life of Lithuanian peasants. The author has observed them sympathetically and at first hand. Nominal Catholics, they still live in fear of pagan gods, giving even their lives to propitiate them. ... Among the stories, that of Jons and Erdma who, having built a home by tricks and cunning are tricked out of it at last by their daughters, compares favorably with Turgeniev's \"Lear of the Steppes\" as a story of faith and treachery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8406779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8406779", "title": "The Two Faces of Mitchell and Webb", "text": "The Two Faces of Mitchell and Webb\n\nThe Two Faces of Mitchell and Webb was a live stage tour undertaken by the comedy team of David Mitchell and Robert Webb, accompanied by their frequent collaborators James Bachman and Abigail Burdess, who played supporting roles.\n\nThe show toured forty-four venues in the UK between October and December 2006. The content of the tour was adapted by Mitchell, Webb, and director Nick Morris from material previously generated by the team, particularly the sketch shows \"That Mitchell and Webb Look\" and \"That Mitchell and Webb Sound\", with significant focus placed on recurring sketches and characters. These included Ted and Peter, Numberwang, The Party Planners, Big Talk, The Surprising Adventures of Sir Digby Chicken-Caesar, The Honeymoon's Over and The Lazy Film Writers.\n\nThe date at the Grand Opera House in York on 27 October 2006 was filmed for a DVD release, which was released in the UK (Region 2) on 27 November 2006 by Universal. The disc included a teaser trailer for the film \"Magicians\", in which both Mitchell and Webb starred.\n"}
{"id": "6732922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6732922", "title": "Virginia in the American Civil War", "text": "Virginia in the American Civil War\n\nThe Commonwealth of Virginia became a prominent part of the Confederate States of America when it joined the Confederacy during the American Civil War. As a Southern slave-holding state, Virginia held a state convention to deal with the secession crisis, and voted against secession on April 4, 1861. Opinion shifted after April 15, when U.S. President Abraham Lincoln called for troops from all states still in the Union to put down the rebellion, following the capture of Fort Sumter, and the Virginia convention voted to declare secession from the Union. A Unionist government was established in Wheeling and the new state of West Virginia was created by an act of Congress from 50 counties of western Virginia.\n\nIn May, it was decided to move the Confederate capital from Montgomery, Alabama, to Richmond, Virginia, in part because the defense of Virginia's capital was deemed vital to the Confederacy's survival. On May 24, 1861, the U.S. Army moved into northern Virginia and captured Alexandria without a fight. Most of the battles in the Eastern Theater of the American Civil War took place in Virginia because the Confederacy had to defend its national capital at Richmond, and public opinion in the North demanded that the Union move \"On to Richmond!\" The successes of Robert E. Lee in defending Richmond are a central theme of the military history of the war. The White House of the Confederacy, located a few blocks north of the State Capitol, became home to the family of Confederate leader, former Mississippi Senator Jefferson Davis.\n\nOn October 16, 1859, the radical abolitionist John Brown led a group of 22 men in a raid on the Federal Arsenal in Harpers Ferry, Virginia. U.S. troops, led by Robert E. Lee, responded and quelled the raid. Subsequently, Brown was tried and executed by hanging in Charles Town on December 2, 1859.\n\nIn 1860 the Democratic Party split into northern and southern factions over the issue of slavery in the territories and Stephen Douglas' support for popular sovereignty: after failing in both Charleston and Baltimore to nominate a single candidate acceptable to the South, Southern Democrats held their convention in Richmond, Virginia, on June 26, 1860, and nominated John C. Breckinridge as their party candidate for U.S. president.\n\nWhen Republican Abraham Lincoln was elected as president, Virginians were concerned about the implications for their state. While a majority of the state would look for compromises to the sectional differences, most people also opposed any restrictions on slaveholders' rights. As the state watched to see what South Carolina would do, many Unionists felt that the greatest danger to the state came not from the North but from \"rash secession\" by the lower South.\n\nOn November 15, 1860 Virginia Governor John Letcher called for a special session of the General Assembly to consider, among other issues, the creation of a secession convention. The legislature convened on January 7 and approved the convention on January 14. On January 19 the General Assembly called for a national Peace Conference, led by Virginia native and former U.S. President John Tyler, to be held in Washington, DC on February 4, the same date that elections were scheduled for delegates to the secession convention.\n\nThe election of convention delegates drew 145,700 voters who elected, by county, 152 representatives. Thirty of these delegates were secessionists, thirty were unionists, and ninety-two were moderates who were not clearly identified with either of the first two groups. Nevertheless, advocates of immediate secession were clearly outnumbered. Simultaneous to the February 4 election delegates from the first six states to secede (South Carolina, Mississpii, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, and Louisiana) met in Montgomery and four days later founded the Confederate States of America.\n\nAccording to one Virginian teacher, William M. Thompson, who would later become a Confederate cavalryman, the declaring of secession by the slave states was necessary to preserve slavery as well as prevent marriages between freedmen and the white \"daughters of the South\", saying that civil war would be preferable:\n\nThe Virginia Secession Convention of 1861 met on February 13 at the Richmond Mechanics Institute located at Ninth and Main Street in Richmond. One of the convention's first actions was to create a 21-member Federal Relations Committee charged with reaching a compromise to the sectional differences as they affected Virginia. The committee was made up of 4 secessionists, 10 moderates and 7 unionists. At first there was no urgency to the convention's deliberations as all sides felt that time only aided their cause. In addition, there were hopes that the Peace Conference on January 19 led by Virginia's former President John Tyler, might resolve the crisis by guaranteeing the safety of slavery and the right to expand slavery into the southwest territories. With the failure of the Peace Conference at the end of February, moderates in the convention began to waver in their support for unionism.\n\nAt the Richmond convention in February 1861, Georgian Henry Lewis Benning, who would later go on to join the Confederate army as an officer, delivered a speech in which he gave his reasoning for the urging of secession from the Union, appealing to ethnic prejudices and pro-slavery sentiments to present his case, saying that were the slave states to remain in the Union, their slaves would ultimately end up being freed by the anti-slavery Republican Party. He stated that he would rather be stricken with illness and starvation than to see African-Americans liberated from slavery and be given equality as citizens:\n\nUnionist support was further eroded for many Virginians by Lincoln's first inaugural address, which they felt was \"argumentative, if not defiant.\" Throughout the state there was evidence that support for secession was growing. The Federal Relations Committee made its report to the convention on March 9. The fourteen proposals defended both slavery and states' rights while calling for a meeting of the eight slave states still in the Union to present a united front for compromise. From March 15 through April 14 the convention debated these proposals one by one. During the debates, the sixth resolution calling for a peaceful solution and maintenance of the Union came up for discussion on April 4. Lewis Edwin Harvie of Amelia County offered a substitute resolution calling for immediate secession. This was voted down by 88 to 45 and the next day the convention continued its debate. Approval of the last proposal came on April 12. The goal of the unionist faction after this approval was to adjourn the convention until October, allowing time for both the convention of the slave states and Virginia's congressional elections in May which, they hoped, would produce a stronger mandate for compromise.\n\nOne delegate reiterated the state's cause of secession and the purpose of the convention:\n\nMississippian Fulton Anderson told the convention that the Republicans were hostile to the slave states, accusing the Republican Party of having an \"unrelenting and eternal hostility to the institution of slavery.\" Ultimately, the convention declared that slavery should continue, and that it should be extended into U.S. territories:\n\nAt the same time, unionists were concerned about the continued presence of U.S. forces at Fort Sumter, despite assurances communicated informally to them by U.S. Secretary of State William Seward that it would be abandoned. Lincoln and Seward were also concerned that the Virginia convention was still in session as of the first of April while secession sentiment was growing. At Lincoln's invitation, unionist John B. Baldwin of Augusta County met with the president on April 4. Baldwin explained that the unionists needed the evacuation of Fort Sumter, a national convention to debate the sectional differences, and a commitment by Lincoln to support constitutional protections for southern rights. Over Lincoln's skepticism, Baldwin argued that Virginia would be out of the Union within forty-eight hours if either side fired a shot in the vicinity of the fort. By some accounts, Lincoln offered to evacuate Fort Sumter if the Virginia convention would adjourn.\n\nOn April 6, amid rumors that the North was preparing for war, the convention voted by a narrow 63-57 to send a three-man delegation to Washington to determine from Lincoln what his intentions were. However, due to bad weather the delegation did not arrive in Washington until April 12. They learned of the attack on Fort Sumter from Lincoln, and the president informed them of his intent to hold the fort and respond to force with force. Reading from a prepared text to prevent any misinterpretations of his intent, Lincoln told them that he had made it clear in his inaugural address that the forts and arsenals in the South were government property and \"if... an unprovoked assault has been made upon Fort Sumter, I shall hold myself at liberty to re-possess, if I can, like places which have been seized before the Government was devolved upon me.\"\n\nThe pro-Union sentiment in Virginia was further weakened after the April 12 Confederate attack upon Fort Sumter. Richmond reacted with large public demonstrations in support of the Confederacy on April 13 when it first received the news of the attack. A Richmond newspaper described the scene in Richmond on the 13th:\n\nThe convention reconvened on April 13 to reconsider Virginia's position, given the outbreak of hostilities. With Virginia still in a delicate balance, with no firm determination yet to secede, sentiment turned more strongly toward secession on April 15, following President Abraham Lincoln's call to all states that had not declared a secession, including Virginia, for sending troops to assist in halting the insurrection and recovering the captured forts.\n\nThe quota of Virginia's state militia called for, in the table attached to this letter, was three regiments which would have a total of 2,340 men to rendezvous at Staunton, Wheeling and Gordonsville. Governor Letcher and the recently reconvened Virginia Secession Convention considered this request from Lincoln \"for troops to invade and coerce\" lacking in constitutional authority, and out of scope of the Act of 1795. Governor Letcher's \"reply to that call wrought an immediate change in the current of public opinion in Virginia\"., whereupon he issued the following reply:\n\nThereafter, the secession convention voted on April 17, provisionally, to secede, on the condition of ratification by a statewide referendum. That same day, the convention adopted an , in which it stated the immediate cause of Virginia's declaring of secession, \"the oppression of the Southern slave-holding States\".\n\nE.L. Ayers, who felt that \"even Fort Sumter might have passed, however, had Lincoln not called for the arming of volunteers\", wrote of the convention's final decision:\n\nThe Governor of Virginia immediately began mobilizing the Virginia State Militia to strategic points around the state. Former Governor Henry Wise had arranged with militia officers on April 16, before the final vote, to seize the United States arsenal at Harpers Ferry and the Gosport Navy Yard in Norfolk. On April 17 in the debate over secession Wise announced to the convention that these events were already in motion. On April 18 the arsenal was captured and most of the machinery was moved to Richmond. At Gosport, the Union Navy, believing that several thousand militia were headed their way, evacuated and abandoned Norfolk, Virginia and the navy yard, burning and torching as many of the ships and facilities as possible.\n\nColonel Robert E. Lee resigned his U.S. Army commission, turning down an offer of command of the Union army. He would ultimately join the Confederate army instead.\n\nVirginia's ordinance of secession was ratified in a referendum held on May 23, 1861, by a vote of 132,201 to 37,451.\n\nThe Confederate Congress proclaimed Richmond to be new capital of the Confederacy and Confederate troops moved into northern Virginia before the referendum was held. The actual number of votes for or against secession are unknown since votes in many counties in northwestern and eastern Virginia (where most of Virginia's unionists lived) were \"discarded or lost.\" Governor Letcher \"estimated\" the vote for these areas.\n\nThe reaction to the referendum was swift on both sides. Confederate troops shut down the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, one of Washington City's two rail links to Ohio and points west. The next day, the U.S. Army moved into northern Virginia. With both armies now in northern Virginia, the stage was set for war. In June, Virginian unionists met at the Wheeling Convention to set up the Restored Government of Virginia. Francis Pierpont was elected governor. The restored government raised troops to defend the Union and appointed two Senators to the United States Senate. It resided in Wheeling until August 1863 when it moved to Alexandria with West Virginia's admittance to the Union. During the summer of 1861, parts of the northern, western and eastern Virginia, including the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, were returned to Union control. Norfolk returned to union control in May 1862. These areas would be administered by the Restored Government of Virginia, with the northwestern counties later becoming the new state of West Virginia. In April 1865, Francis Pierpont and the Restored Government of Virginia moved to Richmond.\n\nIn 1894, Virginian and former Confederate soldier John S. Mosby, reflecting back on his role in the war, stated in a letter to friend that \"I've always understood that we went to war on account of the thing we quarreled with the North about. I've never heard of any other cause of quarrel than slavery.\"\n\nVirginia's strategic resources played a key role in dictating the objectives of the war there. Its agricultural and industrial capacity, and the means of transporting this production, were major strategic targets for attack by Union forces and defense by Confederate forces throughout the war.\n\nThe Confederate's need for war materiel played a very significant role in its decision to move its capital from Montgomery, Alabama to Richmond in May 1861, despite its dangerous northern location 100 miles south of the United States capital in Washington, DC. It was mainly for this industrial reason that the Confederates fought so hard to defend the city. The capital of the Confederacy could easily be moved again if necessary, but Richmond's industry and factories could not be moved.\n\nRichmond was the only large-scale industrial city controlled by the Confederacy during most of the Civil War. The city's warehouses were the supply and logistical center for Confederate forces. The city's Tredegar Iron Works, the 3rd largest foundry in the United States at the start of the war, produced most of the Confederate artillery, including a number of giant rail-mounted siege cannons. The company also manufactured railroad locomotives, boxcars and rails, as well as steam propulsion plants and iron plating for warships. Richmond's factories also produced guns, bullets, tents, uniforms, harnesses, leather goods, swords, bayonets, and other war materiel. A number of textile plants, flour mills, brick factories, newspapers and book publishers were located in Richmond. Richmond had shipyards too, although they were smaller than the shipyards controlled by the Union in Norfolk, Virginia.\n\nThe city's loss to the Union army in April 1865 made a Union victory in the Civil War inevitable. With Virginia firmly under Union control, including the industrial centers of Richmond, Petersburg and Norfolk, the mostly rural and agricultural deep south lacked the industry needed to supply the Confederate war effort.\n\nAt the outbreak of the war Petersburg, Virginia was second only to Richmond among Virginia cities in terms of population and industrialization. The juncture of five railroads, it provided the only continuous rail link to the Deep South. Located south of Richmond, its defense was a top priority; the day that Petersburg fell, Richmond fell with it.\n\nIn the western portion of the state (as defined today), the Shenandoah Valley was considered the \"Breadbasket of the Confederacy\". The valley was connected to Richmond via the Virginia Central Railroad and the James River and Kanawha Canal.\n\nThe Blue Ridge mountains and similar sites had long been mined for iron, and (though as the war progressed, shortages in manpower limited their production). In southwest Virginia, the large salt works at Saltville provided a key source of salt to the Confederacy, essential in preserving food for use by the army. It was the target of two battles.\n\nThe first and last significant battles of the war were held in Virginia, the first being the First Battle of Bull Run and the last being the Battle of Appomattox Courthouse. From May 1861 to April 1865, Richmond was the capital of the Confederacy. The White House of the Confederacy, located a few blocks north of the State Capital, was home to the family of Confederate President Jefferson Davis.\n\nThe first major battle of the Civil War occurred on July 21, 1861. Union forces attempted to take control of the railroad junction at Manassas for use as a supply line, but the Confederate Army had moved its forces by train to meet the Union. The Confederates won the First Battle of Bull Run (known as \"First Battle of Manassas\" in southern naming convention) and the year went on without a major fight.\n\nUnion general George B. McClellan was forced to retreat from Richmond by Robert E. Lee's army. Union general Pope was defeated at the Second Battle of Manassas. Following the one-sided Confederate victory Battle of Fredericksburg.\n\nWhen fighting resumed in the spring of 1863, Union general Hooker was defeated at Chancellorsville by Lee's army.\n\nUlysses Grant's Overland Campaign was fought in Virginia. The campaign included battles of attrition at the Wilderness, Spotsylvania and Cold Harbor and ended with the Siege of Petersburg and Confederate defeat.\n\nIn September 1864, the \"Southern Punch\", a newspaper based in Richmond, reiterated the Confederacy's cause:\n\nIn April 1865, the Confederate regime fled Richmond as U.S. forces approached the city. As the Confederates fled, they set fire to Richmond's public works to prevent them from being used by U.S. forces. A fire set in Richmond by the retreating Confederate army burned 25 percent of the city before being put out by the Union Army. It was the Union Army that saved the city from widespread conflagration and ruin. As a result, Richmond emerged from the Civil War as an economic powerhouse, with most of its buildings and factories undamaged.\n\nOn April 17, 1861, when the Richmond convention voted in favor of Virginia's secession from the United States, the 49 delegates that represented the 50 counties of the future state of West Virginia voted 32 to 13 against secession, with 4 delegates absent or abstaining. With the beginning of the war in western Virginia on May 26, however, most of the delegates returned to Richmond and signed the ordinance, 29 of the 49 delegates signed. A public vote to confirm the ordinance was held on May 23, 1861. Historian Richard O. Curry estimated the vote for West Virginia was approximately 34,677 against it and 19,121 in favor. He concluded that 24 counties favored secession and 26 opposed it.\n\nThe successive defeats of Confederate forces under the commands of Col. Porterfield, Gen. Robert Garnett and Robert E. Lee enabled the establishment of a Unionist government in Wheeling, one of Virginia's largest cities. Known as the Restored Government of Virginia, it was officially recognized by the Lincoln administration. Francis H. Pierpont was selected as governor of Virginia and a rump legislature was composed of former members of the Virginia Assembly who supported the Union. Many western members of the assembly however assumed their offices in Richmond, which reflected the deep divisions among the western counties. The Pierpont government found support among the counties along the Pennsylvania and Ohio borders and the counties along the B&O railroad line. In most of West Virginia however Pierpont's government was weak.\nMilitary organizations for both the Union and Confederate governments began in May and June 1861, with Gov. Letcher ordering the muster of county militias and Pierpont doing the same for the Union. Many counties that had voted heavily against the secession ordinance nevertheless gave large numbers of men to the Confederate army. Due to the restricted enlistment for soldiers in Pennsylvania and Ohio many men not accepted in those states chose to join Pierpont's military organizations. The 1st and 2nd West Virginia Infantry and the 1st and 2nd West Virginia Cavalry were primarily composed of men from those states. Confederate enlistments began for the 8th Virginia Cavalry, 31st Virginia Infantry, 25th Virginia Infantry, and several regiments in the Stonewall Brigade. West Virginia provided about 20,000 soldiers each to the Union and the Confederacy.\n\nAn ordinance for separate statehood from Virginia was passed by the Pierpont government for a public vote on October 24, 1861. Turnout was low, with 18,408 voters approving. The 1860 census recorded 79,515 men of voting age in the 50 counties, and turnout was low for all of the Wheeling initiatives. The last necessary vote for statehood was held on March 4, 1863, with a turnout of 28,318, which included the soldier votes, approving the Willey amendment to the new state constitution.\n\nThe new state was formally admitted to the Union on June 20, 1863.\n\nVirginia's Confederate government fielded about 150,000 troops in the American Civil War. They came from all economic and social levels, including some Unionists and former Unionists. However, at least 30,000 of these men were actually from other states. Most of these non-Virginians were from Maryland, whose government was controlled by Unionists during the war. Another 20,000 of these troops were from what would become the State of West Virginia in August 1863. Important Confederates from Virginia included General Robert E. Lee, commander of the Army of Northern Virginia, General Stonewall Jackson (born in what became West Virginia), General J.E.B. Stuart, General A.P. Hill, and General Jubal Early.\n\nRoughly 50,000 Virginians served in the Union military, including West Virginians and roughly 6,000 Virginians of African ancestry. Some of these men served in Maryland units. Some African Americans, both freedmen and runaway slaves, enlisted in states as far away as Massachusetts. Areas of Virginia that supplied Union soldiers and sent few or no men to fight for the Confederacy had few slaves, a high percentage of poor families, and a history of opposition to secession. These areas were located near northern states and were often under Union control. 40% of Virginia's officers in the United States military when the war started stayed and fought for the Union. These men included Winfield Scott, General-in-Chief of the Union Army, David G. Farragut, First Admiral of the Union Navy, and General George Henry Thomas.\n\nAt least one Virginian actually served in both the Confederate and Union armies. At the beginning of the war, a Confederate soldier from Fairfax County approached the Union soldiers guarding Chain Bridge in his Confederate uniform. Asked what he was doing trying to cross the bridge, he responded that he was travelling to Washington, D.C. to see his uncle. The perplexed Union soldiers asked who his uncle was and the soldier replied his name is Uncle Sam. He was quickly enlisted as a Union scout due to his knowledge of the local terrain.\n\nNumerous battlefields and sites have been partially or fully preserved in Virginia. Those managed by the Federal government include Manassas National Battlefield Park, Richmond National Battlefield Park, Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park, Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park, Petersburg National Battlefield, Appomattox Court House National Historical Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58537412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58537412", "title": "Virtual Mappa", "text": "Virtual Mappa\n"}
{"id": "21208262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21208262", "title": "Western culture", "text": "Western culture\n\nWestern culture, sometimes equated with Western civilization, Occidental culture, the Western world, Western society, and European civilization, is a term used very broadly to refer to a heritage of social norms, ethical values, traditional customs, belief systems, political systems and specific artifacts and technologies that have some origin or association with Europe. The term also applies beyond Europe to countries and cultures whose histories are strongly connected to Europe by immigration, colonization, or influence. For example, Western culture includes countries in the Americas and Australasia, whose language and demographic ethnicity majorities are European. The development of western culture has been strongly influenced by Christianity.\n\nWestern culture is characterized by a host of artistic, philosophic, literary and legal themes and traditions; the heritage of various European peoples. Christianity, including the Roman Catholic Church, Protestantism and the Orthodox Church, has also played a prominent role in the shaping of Western civilization since at least the 4th century as did Judaism (particularly Hellenistic Judaism and Jewish Christianity). Before the Cold War era, the traditional Western viewpoint identified Western civilization with the Western Christian (Catholic-Protestant) countries and culture.\n\nA cornerstone of Western thought, beginning in ancient Greece and continuing through the Middle Ages and Renaissance, is the idea of rationalism in various spheres of life, especially religion, developed by Hellenistic philosophy, scholasticism and humanism. The Catholic Church was for centuries at the center of the development of the values, ideas, science, laws and institutions which constitute Western civilization. Empiricism later gave rise to the scientific method during the scientific revolution and the Enlightenment. \n\nAncient Greece is considered the birthplace of many elements of Western culture, with the world's first democratic system of government and major advances in philosophy, science and mathematics. Greece was followed by Rome, which made key contributions in law, government, engineering and political organization. Western culture continued to develop with the Christianisation of Europe during the Middle Ages and the reform and modernization triggered by the Renaissance. The Church preserved the intellectual developments of classical antiquity and is the reason many of them are still known today. Medieval Christianity created the modern university, the hospital system, scientific economics, natural law (which would later influence the creation of international law) and numerous other innovations across all intellectual fields. Christianity played a role in ending practices common among pagan societies, such as human sacrifice, slavery, infanticide and polygamy. The globalization by successive European colonial empires spread European ways of life and European educational methods around the world between the 16th and 20th centuries. European culture developed with a complex range of philosophy, medieval scholasticism and mysticism and Christian and secular humanism. Rational thinking developed through a long age of change and formation, with the experiments of the Enlightenment and breakthroughs in the sciences. Tendencies that have come to define modern Western societies include the concept of political pluralism, individualism, prominent subcultures or countercultures (such as New Age movements) and increasing cultural syncretism resulting from globalization and human migration.\n\nThe West as a geographical area is unclear and undefined. More often a country's ideology is what will be used to categorize it as a Western society. There is some disagreement about what nations should or should not be included in the category and at what times. Many parts of the Eastern Roman Empire are considered Western today but were Eastern in the past. Geographically, the \"West\" of today would include Europe (especially the European Union countries) together with extra-European territories belonging to the English-speaking world, the Hispanidad, the Lusosphere; and the Francophonie in the wider context. Since the context is highly biased and context-dependent, there is no agreed definition what the \"West\" is.\n\nIt is difficult to determine which individuals fit into which category and the East–West contrast is sometimes criticized as relativistic and arbitrary. Globalism has spread Western ideas so widely that almost all modern cultures are, to some extent, influenced by aspects of Western culture. Stereotyped views of \"the West\" have been labeled Occidentalism, paralleling Orientalism—the term for the 19th-century stereotyped views of \"the East\".\n\nAs Europe discovered the wider world, old concepts adapted. The area that had formerly been considered the Orient (\"the East\") became the Near East as the interests of the European powers interfered with Meiji Japan and Qing China for the first time in the 19th century. Thus the Sino-Japanese War in 1894–1895 occurred in the Far East while the troubles surrounding the decline of the Ottoman Empire simultaneously occurred in the Near East. The term Middle East in the mid-19th century included the territory east of the Ottoman Empire, but West of China—Greater Persia and Greater India—is now used synonymously with \"Near East\" in most languages.\n\nThe earliest civilizations which influenced the development of western culture were those of Mesopotamia; the area of the Tigris–Euphrates river system, largely corresponding to modern-day Iraq, northeastern Syria, southeastern Turkey and southwestern Iran: the cradle of civilization.\n\nThe Greeks contrasted themselves to their Eastern neighbors, such as the Trojans in \"Iliad\", setting an example for later contrasts between east and west. In the Middle Ages, the Near East provided a contrast to the West, though it had been Hellenized since the time of Alexander the Great.\n\nConcepts of what is \"the West\" arose out of legacies of the Western Roman Empire and the Eastern Roman Empire. Later, ideas of the west were formed by the concepts of Latin Christendom and the Holy Roman Empire. What we think of as Western thought today originates primarily from Greco-Roman and Germanic influences, and includes the ideals of the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, and the Enlightenment, as well as Christian culture.\n\nIn Homeric literature, and right up until the time of Alexander the Great, for example in the accounts of the Persian Wars of Greeks against Persians by Herodotus, we see the paradigm of a contrast between the West and East.\n\nNevertheless, the Greeks felt they were the most civilized and saw themselves (in the formulation of Aristotle) as something between the wild barbarians of most of Europe and the soft, slavish Middle-Easterners. Ancient Greek science, philosophy, democracy, architecture, literature, and art provided a foundation embraced and built upon by the Roman Empire as it swept up Europe, including the Hellenic World in its conquests in the 1st century BCE. In the meantime, however, Greece, under Alexander, had become a capital of the East, and part of an empire. The Celts also created some significant literature in the ancient world whenever they were given the opportunity (an example being the poet Caecilius Statius). They also developed a large amount of scientific knowledge themselves, as seen in their Coligny Calendar.\nFor about five hundred years, the Roman Empire maintained the Greek East and consolidated a Latin West, but an East-West division remained, reflected in many cultural norms of the two areas, including language. Although Rome, like Greece, was no longer democratic, the idea of democracy remained a part of the education of citizens.\n\nEventually, the empire became increasingly split into a Western and Eastern part, reviving old ideas of a contrast between an advanced East, and a rugged West. In the Roman world one could speak of three main directions: North (Celtic tribal states and Parthians), the East (\"lux ex oriente\"), and finally South, which implied danger, historically via the Punic Wars (\"Quid novi ex Africa?\").\n\nFrom the time of Alexander the Great (the Hellenistic period) Greek civilization came in contact with Jewish civilization. Christianity would eventually emerge from the syncretism of Hellenic culture, Roman culture, and Second Temple Judaism, gradually spreading across the Roman Empire and eclipsing its antecedents and influences. The rise of Christianity reshaped much of the Graeco-Roman tradition and culture; the Christianised culture would be the basis for the development of Western civilization after the fall of Rome (which resulted from increasing pressure from barbarians outside Roman culture). Roman culture also mixed with Celtic, Germanic and Slavic cultures, which slowly became integrated into Western culture: starting mainly with their acceptance of Christianity.\n\nThe Medieval West was at its broadest the same as Christendom, including both the \"Latin\" West, also called \"Frankish\" during Charlemagne's reign and the Orthodox Eastern part, where Greek remained the language of empire.\n\nAfter the fall of Rome, much of Greco-Roman art, literature, science and even technology were all but lost in the western part of the old empire. However, this would become the centre of a new West. Europe fell into political anarchy, with many warring kingdoms and principalities. Under the Frankish kings, it eventually, and partially, reunified, and the anarchy evolved into feudalism.\n\nMuch of the basis of the post-Roman cultural world had been set before the fall of the Empire, mainly through the integration and reshaping of Roman ideas through Christian thought. The Greek and Roman paganism had been completely replaced by Christianity around the 4th and 5th centuries, since it became the official State religion following the baptism of emperor Constantine I. Orthodox Christian Christianity and the Nicene Creed served as a unifying force in Christian parts of Europe, and in some respects replaced or competed with the secular authorities. The Jewish Christian tradition out of which it had emerged was all but extinguished, and antisemitism became increasingly entrenched or even integral to Christendom. Art and literature, law, education, and politics were preserved in the teachings of the Church, in an environment that, otherwise, would have probably seen their loss. The Church founded many cathedrals, universities, monasteries and seminaries, some of which continue to exist today.\n\nMedieval Christianity created the first modern universities. The Catholic Church established a hospital system in Medieval Europe that vastly improved upon the Roman \"valetudinaria\" and Greek healing temples. These hospitals were established to cater to \"particular social groups marginalized by poverty, sickness, and age,\" according to historian of hospitals, Guenter Risse. Christianity played a role in ending practices common among pagan societies, such as human sacrifice, slavery, infanticide and polygamy. Francisco de Vitoria, a disciple of Thomas Aquinas and a Catholic thinker who studied the issue regarding the human rights of colonized natives, is recognized by the United Nations as a father of international law, and now also by historians of economics and democracy as a leading light for the West's democracy and rapid economic development. Joseph Schumpeter, an economist of the twentieth century, referring to the Scholastics, wrote, \"it is they who come nearer than does any other group to having been the 'founders' of scientific economics.\" Other economists and historians, such as Raymond de Roover, Marjorie Grice-Hutchinson, and Alejandro Chafuen, have also made similar statements. Historian Paul Legutko of Stanford University said the Catholic Church is \"at the center of the development of the values, ideas, science, laws, and institutions which constitute what we call Western civilization.\"\n\nIn a broader sense, the Middle Ages, with its fertile encounter between Greek philosophical reasoning and Levantine monotheism was not confined to the West but also stretched into the old East. The philosophy and science of Classical Greece was largely forgotten in Europe after the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, other than in isolated monastic enclaves (notably in Ireland, which had become Christian but was never conquered by Rome). The learning of Classical Antiquity was better preserved in the Byzantine Eastern Roman Empire. Justinian's Corpus Juris Civilis Roman civil law code was preserved in the East and Constantinople maintained trade and intermittent political control over outposts such as Venice in the West for centuries. Classical Greek learning was also subsumed, preserved and elaborated in the rising Eastern world, which gradually supplanted Roman-Byzantine control as a dominant cultural-political force. Thus, much of the learning of classical antiquity was slowly reintroduced to European civilization in the centuries following the collapse of the Western Roman Empire.\n\nThe rediscovery of the Justinian Code in Western Europe early in the 10th century rekindled a passion for the discipline of law, which crossed many of the re-forming boundaries between East and West. In the Catholic or Frankish west, Roman law became the foundation on which all legal concepts and systems were based. Its influence is found in all Western legal systems, although in different manners and to different extents. The study of canon law, the legal system of the Catholic Church, fused with that of Roman law to form the basis of the refounding of Western legal scholarship. During the Reformation and Enlightenment, the ideas of civil rights, equality before the law, procedural justice, and democracy as the ideal form of society began to be institutionalized as principles forming the basis of modern Western culture, particularly in Protestant regions.\nIn the 14th century, starting from Italy and then spreading throughout Europe, there was a massive artistic, architectural, scientific and philosophical revival, as a result of the Christian revival of Greek philosophy, and the long Christian medieval tradition that established the use of reason as one of the most important of human activities. This period is commonly referred to as the Renaissance. In the following century, this process was further enhanced by an exodus of Greek Christian priests and scholars to Italian cities such as Venice after the end of the Byzantine Empire with the fall of Constantinople.\nFrom Late Antiquity, through the Middle Ages, and onwards, while Eastern Europe was shaped by the Orthodox Church, Southern and Central Europe were increasingly stabilized by the Catholic Church which, as Roman imperial governance faded from view, was the only consistent force in Western Europe. In 1054 came the so-called Great Schism that, following the Greek East and Latin West divide, separated Europe into religious and cultural regions present to this day. Until the Age of Enlightenment, Christian culture took over as the predominant force in Western civilization, guiding the course of philosophy, art, and science for many years. Movements in art and philosophy, such as the Humanist movement of the Renaissance and the Scholastic movement of the High Middle Ages, were motivated by a drive to connect Catholicism with Greek and Arab thought imported by Christian pilgrims. However, due to the division in Western Christianity caused by the Protestant Reformation and the Enlightenment, religious influence—especially the temporal power of the Pope—began to wane.\n\nFrom the late 15th century to the 17th century, Western culture began to spread to other parts of the world through explorers and missionaries during the Age of Discovery, and by imperialists from the 17th century to the early 20th century. During the Great Divergence, a term coined by Samuel Huntington the Western world overcame pre-modern growth constraints and emerged during the 19th century as the most powerful and wealthy world civilization of the time, eclipsing Qing China, Mughal India, Tokugawa Japan, and the Ottoman Empire. The process was accompanied and reinforced by the Age of Discovery and continued into the modern period. Scholars have proposed a wide variety of theories to explain why the Great Divergence happened, including lack of government intervention, geography, colonialism, and customary traditions.\n\nComing into the modern era, the historical understanding of the East-West contrast—as the opposition of Christendom to its geographical neighbors—began to weaken. As religion became less important, and Europeans came into increasing contact with far away peoples, the old concept of Western culture began a slow evolution towards what it is today. The Age of Discovery faded into the Age of Enlightenment of the 18th century, during which cultural and intellectual forces in Western Europe emphasized reason, analysis, and individualism rather than traditional lines of authority. It challenged the authority of institutions that were deeply rooted in society, such as the Catholic Church; there was much talk of ways to reform society with toleration, science and skepticism.\n\nPhilosophers of the Enlightenment included Francis Bacon, René Descartes, John Locke, Baruch Spinoza, Voltaire (1694–1778), David Hume, and Immanuel Kant. influenced society by publishing widely read works. Upon learning about enlightened views, some rulers met with intellectuals and tried to apply their reforms, such as allowing for toleration, or accepting multiple religions, in what became known as enlightened absolutism. New ideas and beliefs spread around Europe and were fostered by an increase in literacy due to a departure from solely religious texts. Publications include \"Encyclopédie\" (1751–72) that was edited by Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert. The \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" (Philosophical Dictionary, 1764) and \"Letters on the English\" (1733) written by Voltaire spread the ideals of the Enlightenment.\n\nCoinciding with the Age of Enlightenment was the scientific revolution, spearheaded by Newton. This included the emergence of modern science, during which developments in mathematics, physics, astronomy, biology (including human anatomy) and transformed views of society and nature. While its dates are disputed, the publication in 1543 of Nicolaus Copernicus's \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (\"On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres\") is often cited as marking the beginning of the scientific revolution, and its completion is attributed to the \"grand synthesis\" of Newton's 1687 \"Principia\".\n\nThe Industrial Revolution was the transition to new manufacturing processes in the period from about 1760 to sometime between 1820 and 1840. This included going from hand production methods to machines, new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes, improved efficiency of water power, the increasing use of steam power, and the development of machine tools. These transitions began in Great Britain, and spread to Western Europe and North America within a few decades.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution marks a major turning point in history; almost every aspect of daily life was influenced in some way. In particular, average income and population began to exhibit unprecedented sustained growth. Some economists say that the major impact of the Industrial Revolution was that the standard of living for the general population began to increase consistently for the first time in history, although others have said that it did not begin to meaningfully improve until the late 19th and 20th centuries. The precise start and end of the Industrial Revolution is still debated among historians, as is the pace of economic and social changes. GDP per capita was broadly stable before the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy, while the Industrial Revolution began an era of per-capita economic growth in capitalist economies. Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals, plants and fire.\n\nThe First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870, when technological and economic progress continued with the increasing adoption of steam transport (steam-powered railways, boats, and ships), the large-scale manufacture of machine tools and the increasing use of machinery in steam-powered factories.\n\nSome cultural and artistic modalities are characteristically Western in origin and form. While dance, music, visual art, story-telling, and architecture are human universals, they are expressed in the West in certain characteristic ways.\n\nIn Western dance, music, plays and other arts, the performers are only very infrequently masked. There are essentially no taboos against depicting a god, or other religious figures, in a representational fashion.\n\nIn music, Catholic monks developed the first forms of modern Western musical notation in order to standardize liturgy throughout the worldwide Church, and an enormous body of religious music has been composed for it through the ages. This led directly to the emergence and development of European classical music, and its many derivatives. The Baroque style, which encompassed music, art, and architecture, was particularly encouraged by the post-Reformation Catholic Church as such forms offered a means of religious expression that was stirring and emotional, intended to stimulate religious fervor.\n\nThe symphony, concerto, sonata, opera, and oratorio have their origins in Italy. Many musical instruments developed in the West have come to see widespread use all over the world; among them are the violin, piano, pipe organ, saxophone, trombone, clarinet, accordion, and the theremin. The solo piano, symphony orchestra, and the string quartet are also significant musical innovations of the West.\n\nJan van Eyck, among other renaissance painters, made great advances in oil painting, and perspective drawings and paintings had their earliest practitioners in Florence. In art, the Celtic knot is a very distinctive Western repeated motif. Depictions of the nude human male and female in photography, painting, and sculpture are frequently considered to have special artistic merit. Realistic portraiture is especially valued.\n\nPhotography, and the motion picture as both a technology and basis for entirely new art forms were also developed in the West.\n\nThe ballet is a distinctively Western form of performance dance. The ballroom dance is an important Western variety of dance for the elite. The polka, the square dance, and the Irish step dance are very well known Western forms of folk dance.\n\nGreek and Roman theatre are considered the antecedents of modern theatre, and forms such as medieval theatre, passion plays, morality plays, and Commedia dell'arte are considered highly influential. Elizabethan theater, with such luminaries as William Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe, and Ben Jonson, is considered one of the most formative and important eras for modern drama.\n\nThe soap opera, a popular culture dramatic form, originated in the United States first on radio in the 1930s, then a couple of decades later on television. The music video was also developed in the West in the middle of the 20th century. Musical theatre was developed in the West in the 19th and 20th Centuries, from music hall, comic opera, and Vaudeville; with significant contributions from the Jewish diaspora, African-Americans, and other marginalized peoples.\n\nWhile epic literary works in verse such as the Mahabharata and Homer's Iliad are ancient and occurred worldwide, the prose novel as a distinct form of storytelling, with developed, consistent human characters and, typically, some connected overall plot (although both of these characteristics have sometimes been modified and played with in later times), was popularized by the West in the 17th and 18th centuries. Of course, extended prose fiction had existed much earlier; both novels of adventure and romance in the Hellenistic world and in Heian Japan. Both Petronius' Satyricon (c. 60 CE) and the \"Tale of Genji\" by Murasaki Shikibu (c. 1000 CE) have been cited as the world's first major novel but they had a very limited long-term impact on literary writing beyond their own day until much more recent times.\n\nTragedy, from its ritually and mythologically inspired Greek origins to modern forms where struggle and downfall are often rooted in psychological or social, rather than mythical, motives, is also widely considered a specifically European creation and can be seen as a forerunner of some aspects of both the novel and of classical opera.\n\nImportant western architectural motifs include the Doric, Corinthian, and Ionic columns, and the Romanesque, Gothic, Baroque, and Victorian styles are still widely recognised, and used even today, in the West. Much of western architecture emphasizes repetition of simple motifs, straight lines and expansive, undecorated planes. A modern ubiquitous architectural form that emphasizes this characteristic is the skyscraper, first developed in New York, London, and Chicago.\n\nA notable feature of Western culture is its strong emphasis and focus on innovation and invention through science and technology, and its ability to generate new processes, materials and material artifacts with its roots dating back to the Ancient Greeks. The scientific method as \"a method or procedure that has characterized natural science since the 17th century, consisting in systematic observation, measurement, and experiment, and the formulation, testing, and modification of hypotheses\" was almost entirely fashioned by the Italian Galileo Galilei.\n\nThe Western world has been the leading force in the technological and scientific disciplines: whether measured in people or events, 97 percent of accomplishment in the scientific inventories occurred in Europe and North America. The Dictionary of Scientific Biography (DoSB) sponsored by the American Council of Learned Societies, concluded that 81 percent of the most significant scientists and mathematicians come from Europe compared to 76 percent in the Human Accomplishment set, numbers that rise to 94 and 91 percent respectively when the United States and Canada are included. The United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy alone account for 72 percent of all the significant scientific figures in science from 1400 to 1950. Add in Russia and the Netherlands, and 80 percent of all significant figures are accounted for.\n\nBy the will of the Swedish inventor Alfred Nobel the Nobel Prize were established in 1895. The prizes in Chemistry, Literature, Peace, Physics, and Physiology or Medicine were first awarded in 1901. The percentage of ethnically European noble prize winners during the first and second halves of the 20th century were respectively 98 and 94 percent. A study by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) – Japan's equivalent of the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) concluded that 54% of the world's most important inventions were British. Of the rest, 25% were American and 5% Japanese.\n\nIt was the West that first developed steam power and adapted its use into factories, and for the generation of electric power. The electrical motor, dynamo, transformer, and electric light, and indeed most of the familiar electrical appliances, were inventions of the West. The Otto and the Diesel internal combustion engines are products whose genesis and early development were in the West. Nuclear power stations are derived from the first atomic pile constructed in Chicago in 1942.\n\nCommunication devices and systems including the telegraph, the telephone, radio, television, communications and navigation satellites, mobile phone, and the Internet were all invented by Westerners. The pencil, ballpoint pen, Cathode ray tube, liquid-crystal display, light-emitting diode, camera, photocopier, laser printer, ink jet printer, plasma display screen and world wide web were also invented in the West.\n\nUbiquitous materials including concrete, aluminium, clear glass, synthetic rubber, synthetic diamond and the plastics polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinyl chloride and polystyrene were invented in the West. Iron and steel ships, bridges and skyscrapers first appeared in the West. Nitrogen fixation and petrochemicals were invented by Westerners. Most of the elements were discovered and named in the West, as well as the contemporary atomic theories to explain them.\n\nThe transistor, integrated circuit, memory chip, and computer were all first seen in the West. The ship's chronometer, the screw propeller, the locomotive, bicycle, automobile, and airplane were all invented in the West. Eyeglasses, the telescope, the microscope and electron microscope, all the varieties of chromatography, protein and DNA sequencing, computerised tomography, Nuclear magnetic resonance, x-rays, and light, ultraviolet and infrared spectroscopy, were all first developed and applied in Western laboratories, hospitals and factories.\n\nIn medicine, the pure antibiotics were created in the West. The method of preventing Rh disease, the treatment of diabetes, and the germ theory of disease were discovered by Westerners. The eradication of smallpox, was led by a Westerner, Donald Henderson. Radiography, Computed tomography, Positron emission tomography and Medical ultrasonography are important diagnostic tools developed in the West. Other important diagnostic tools of clinical chemistry including the methods of spectrophotometry, electrophoresis and immunoassay were first devised by Westerners. So were the stethoscope, electrocardiograph, and the endoscope. Vitamins, hormonal contraception, hormones, insulin, Beta blockers and ACE inhibitors, along with a host of other medically proven drugs were first utilized to treat disease in the West. The double-blind study and evidence-based medicine are critical scientific techniques widely used in the West for medical purposes.\n\nIn mathematics, calculus, statistics, logic, vectors, tensors and complex analysis, group theory and topology were developed by Westerners. In biology, evolution, chromosomes, DNA, genetics and the methods of molecular biology are creatures of the West. In physics, the science of mechanics and quantum mechanics, relativity, thermodynamics, and statistical mechanics were all developed by Westerners. The discoveries and inventions by Westerners in electromagnetism include Coulomb's law (1785), the first battery (1800), the unity of electricity and magnetism (1820), Biot–Savart law (1820), Ohm's Law (1827), and the Maxwell's equations (1871). The atom, nucleus, electron, neutron and proton were all unveiled by Westerners.\n\nIn business, economics, and finance, double entry bookkeeping, credit card, and the charge card were all first used in the West.\n\nWesterners are also known for their explorations of the globe and outer space. The first expedition to circumnavigate the Earth (1522) was by Westerners, as well as the first journey to the South Pole (1911), and the first moon landing (1969). The landing of robots on Mars (2004 and 2012) and on an asteroid (2001), the Voyager 2 explorations of the outer planets (Uranus in 1986 and Neptune in 1989), Voyager 1's passage into interstellar space (2013), and \"New Horizons\" flyby of Pluto (2015) were significant recent Western achievements.\n\nThe Western media refers to the news media of the Western world. The roots of the Western media can be traced back to the late 15th century, when printing presses began to operate throughout Western Europe. The emergence of news media in the 17th century has to be seen in close connection with the spread of the printing press, from which the publishing press derives its name.\n\nIn the 16th century, a decrease in the preeminence of Latin in its literary use, along with the impact of economic change, the \"discoveries\" arising from trade and travel, navigation to the \"new\" world, science and arts and the development of increasingly rapid communications through print led to a rising corpus of vernacular media content in Western Europe.\n\nAfter the launch of the satellite Sputnik 1 by the Soviet Union in 1957, satellite transmission technology was dramatically realised, with the U.S. launching Telstar in 1962 linking live media broadcasts from the UK to the US. The first digital broadcast satellite (DBS) system began transmitting in America in 1975.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, the Internet has contributed to a tremendous increase in the accessibility of Western media content. Departing from media offered in bundled content packages (magazines, CDs, television and radio slots), the Internet has primarily offered unbundled content items (articles, audio and video files).\n\nThe native religions of Europe were polytheistic but not homogenous—however they were similar insofar as they were predominantly Indo-European in origin. Roman religion was similar to but not the same as Hellenic religion—likewise the same for indigenous Germanic polytheism, Celtic polytheism and Slavic polytheism. Western culture, for at least the last 1000 years, has been considered nearly synonymous with Christian culture. Before this time many Europeans from the north, especially Scandinavians, remained polytheistic, though southern Europe was predominantly Christian from the 5th century onwards.\n\nWestern culture, throughout most of its history, has been nearly equivalent to Western Christian culture, and many of the population of the Western hemisphere could broadly be described as cultural Christians. The notion of \"Europe\" and the \"Western World\" has been intimately connected with the concept of \"Christianity and Christendom\" many even attribute Christianity for being the link that created a unified European identity.\n\nAs in other areas, the Jewish diaspora and Judaism exist in the Western world. Non-European groups, and Jews in particular, have been subjected to intense racism, ethnic and religious hatred, xenophobia, discrimination, and persecution in the West. This has included pogroms, forced conversion, displacement, segregation and ghettos, ethnic cleansing, genocide, and other forms of violence and prejudice.\n\nReligion has waned considerably in Europe, where many are today irreligious, agnostic or atheist and they make up about 18% of the European population. In terms of irreligion, over half of the populations of the Czech Republic (79% of the population was agnostic, atheist or irreligious), the United Kingdom (~25%), Germany (25–33%), France (30–35%) and the Netherlands (39–44%) are agnostic, atheist, or otherwise non-religious.\n\nHowever, per another survey by Pew Research Center from 2011, Christianity remains the dominant religion in the Western world where 70–84% are Christians, According to this survey, 76% of Europeans described themselves as Christians, and about 86% of the Americas population identified themselves as Christians, (90% in Latin America and 77% in North America). And 73% in Oceania are self-identify as Christian, and 76% in South Africa is Christian.\n\nAccording to new polls about religiosity in the European Union in 2012 by Eurobarometer, Christianity is the largest religion in the European Union, accounting for 72% of the EU population. Catholics are the largest Christian group, accounting for 48% of the EU population, while Protestants make up 12%, Eastern Orthodox make up 8% and other Christians make up 4%. Non believer/Agnostic account 16%, Atheist account's 7%, and Muslim 2%.\n\nThroughout the Western world there are increasing numbers of people who seek to revive the indigenous religions of their European ancestors, such groups include Germanic, Roman, Hellenic, Celtic and Slavic, polytheistic reconstructionist movements, likewise, Wicca, new age spirituality and other neo-pagan belief systems enjoy notable minority support in Western nations.\n\nSince classical antiquity, sport has been an important facet of Western cultural expression. A wide range of sports were already established by the time of Ancient Greece and the military culture and the development of sports in Greece influenced one another considerably. Sports became such a prominent part of their culture that the Greeks created the Olympic Games, which in ancient times were held every four years in a small village in the Peloponnesus called Olympia. Baron Pierre de Coubertin, a Frenchman, instigated the modern revival of the Olympic movement. The first modern Olympics were held at 1896 Athens in.\n\nThe Romans built immense structures such as the Colisseum in Rome to house their festivals of sport. The Romans exhibited a passion for blood sports, such as the infamous Gladiatorial battles that pitted contestants against one another in a fight to the death. The Olympic Games revived many of the sports of Classical Antiquity—such as Greco-Roman wrestling, discus and javelin.\nThe sport of bullfighting is a traditional spectacle of Spain, Portugal, southern France, and some Latin American countries. It traces its roots to prehistoric bull worship and sacrifice and is often linked to Rome, where many human-versus-animal events were held. Bullfighting spread from Spain to its Central and South American colonies, and in the 19th century to France, where it developed into a distinctive form in its own right.\n\nJousting and hunting were popular sports in the Western Europe of the Middle Ages, and the aristocratic classes of Europe developed passions for leisure activities. A great number of the popular global sports were first developed or codified in Europe. The modern game of golf originated in Scotland, where the first written record of golf is James II's banning of the game in 1457, as an unwelcome distraction to learning archery. The Industrial Revolution that began in Britain in the 18th Century brought increased leisure time, leading to more time for citizens to attend and follow spectator sports, greater participation in athletic activities, and increased accessibility. These trends continued with the advent of mass media and global communication. The bat and ball sport of cricket was first played in England during the 16th century and was exported around the globe via the British Empire. A number of popular modern sports were devised or codified in Britain during the 19th Century and obtained global prominence—these include ping pong, modern tennis, association football, netball and rugby.\n\nFootball (also known as soccer) remains hugely popular in Europe, but has grown from its origins to be known as the \"world game\". Similarly, sports such as cricket, rugby, and netball were exported around the world, particularly among countries in the Commonwealth of Nations, thus India and Australia are among the strongest cricketing nations, while victory in the Rugby World Cup has been shared among the Western nations of New Zealand, Australia, South Africa and England.\n\nAustralian Rules Football, an Australian variation of football with similarities to Gaelic football and rugby evolved in the British colony of Victoria in the mid-19th century. The United States also developed unique variations of English sports. English migrants took antecedents of baseball to America during the colonial period. The history of American football can be traced to early versions of rugby football and association football. Many games known as \"football\" were being played at colleges and universities in the United States in the first half of the 19th century. American football resulted from several major divergences from rugby, most notably the rule changes instituted by Walter Camp, the \"Father of American Football\". Basketball was invented in 1891 by James Naismith, a Canadian physical education instructor working in Springfield, Massachusetts in the United States.\n\nWestern culture has developed many themes and traditions, the most significant of which are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56242460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56242460", "title": "Woody Allen sexual assault allegation", "text": "Woody Allen sexual assault allegation\n\nIn August 1992, the American film director Woody Allen was accused by his adoptive daughter Dylan Farrow, then seven years old, of having sexually assaulted her in the home of her adoptive mother, the actor Mia Farrow, in Bridgewater, Connecticut. Allen has repeatedly denied the allegation.\n\nWhen the allegation was made, Farrow and Allen had been in a 12-year relationship and had three children together: two adopted children, Dylan and Moses, and one biological son, Satchel (now known as Ronan Farrow). The assault is alleged to have taken place eight months after Farrow learned that Allen had been having an affair with another of her adoptive daughters, Soon-Yi Previn, who married Allen in 1997; Previn was a first-year undergraduate when Farrow found out about the relationship. Allen alleges that the affair prompted Mia Farrow to concoct the assault allegation as an act of vengeance. The Connecticut State's Attorney investigated the allegation but did not press charges, and the New York Department of Social Services found \"no credible evidence\" to support it. In response to the allegation, Allen sued Farrow for sole custody of Dylan, Satchel and Moses. He lost the case in June 1993; the judge denied him visitation rights with Dylan, gave him limited, supervised visitation with Satchel, and allowed Moses, a teenager, to decide for himself. The decision was upheld on appeal in 1994 and 1995.\n\nDylan Farrow has repeated the allegation several times as an adult. Her first public comment was in an interview with Maureen Orth for \"Vanity Fair\" in 2013, followed by an open letter in the \"New York Times\" in 2014, a \"Los Angeles Times\" op-ed in December 2017.\nWoody Allen has also spoken publicly about the allegations, in an interview with Gayle King for \"CBS This Morning\" in a \"New York Times\" op-ed and in 2018 with a statement to CBS, denying the allegation in both.\n\nWoody Allen and Mia Farrow began a 12-year relationship in 1980, during which Farrow starred in 13 of Allen's films. They maintained separate apartments in Manhattan throughout the relationship—Farrow on Central Park West and Allen on Fifth Avenue—and did not marry; they had both been married twice.\nWhen the relationship began, Farrow had seven children: three biological sons from her marriage to composer André Previn; three adopted girls (two Vietnamese and one Korean, Soon-Yi Previn); and one adopted Korean boy, Moses. In July 1985 she adopted a baby girl, Dylan, from Texas. Allen was not involved in the adoption, but when Dylan arrived he assumed a parental role toward her and began spending more time in Farrow's home. He and Farrow went on holiday to Europe several times with the Farrow–Previn children between 1987 and 1989. In December 1987 Farrow gave birth to Allen's biological son, Satchel (later known as Ronan Farrow). Farrow wanted to adopt another child in 1991; Allen said he would not take \"a lousy attitude toward it\" so long as she agreed to his adoption of Dylan and Moses, and in October that year she adopted another Vietnamese child. Allen's adoption of Dylan and Moses was finalized on December 17, 1991.\nAccording to her testimony during the custody trial, Farrow became concerned about Allen's behavior around Dylan in 1987–1988. She reportedly told Allen that he was paying too much attention to Dylan and failing to give her \"breathing room\". He had allegedly read to Dylan while in his underwear, allowed her to suck his thumb, and would sit on her bed in the morning waiting for her to wake up. Farrow would later testify that she found Allen's relationship with Dylan at this time \"relentless and overpowering\" and said it had \"a wooing quality\". Farrow also told her therapist that she feared Woody \"would abuse Satchel\", and that she also worried that Allen had a sexual relationship \"with another man\". On one occasion, Dylan allegedly locked herself in the bathroom for four hours when he arrived; Allen had an employee pick the lock with a coat hanger. The family psychologist, Dr. Susan Coates, witnessed some of Allen's behavior and testified during the custody trial in 1993 that she did not see it as sexual, but as \"inappropriately intense because it excluded everybody else\". Allen said later that he had paid extra attention to Dylan to compensate for the time Farrow was spending with the newborn, Satchel. He agreed in 1990 to discuss the issue in therapy sessions.\n\nIn or around 1991 Allen began an affair with Farrow's adopted daughter Soon-Yi Previn. According to Allen, it began in late December 1991. According to Farrow, it began while Previn was in her final year of high school, which ended in June 1991. She alleges that Dylan saw Allen and Previn on the bed together in the summer or autumn of 1991. One of the bones of contention has been how old Previn was at the time. When Farrow and André Previn adopted her from Seoul in 1978, the Seoul family court gave her a \"presumptive birth date\" of October 8, 1970; she had been abandoned and was living in that city's St. Paul's Orphanage. A bone scan in the United States in 1978 indicated that she was between five and seven years old; according to Farrow, the family regarded her date of birth as October 8, 1972. The timing of the affair became an issue in part because Farrow attempted, unsuccessfully, to have Allen's adoption of Dylan and Moses declared void after the molestation allegation, on the grounds that his affair with Previn had begun before the adoptions were finalized on December 17, 1991.\nDuring her final year of high school, Previn told Allen that she wanted to be a model; he advised her how to dress and arranged for professional photographs to be taken. She reportedly asked if she could accompany him to a basketball game, and after attending several together, they became closer. Their affair came to light on January 13, 1992, when Farrow found nude Polaroid photographs of Previn on the mantel in Allen's home. Previn was by then in her first year at Drew University in New Jersey. Allen, then 56, told Farrow that he had taken the photographs the day before, and that he and Previn had first had sex in the last week of December 1991. Allen told the custody trial in 1993 that he regarded the images as erotic, but not pornographic; the appellate court said that it did not \"share Mr. Allen's characterization\" of the photographs.\n\nAlthough the discovery shocked the family, Farrow did not stop Allen from visiting her home, and she completed her work on \"Husbands and Wives\" (1992), the last film of his in which she appeared. According to Farrow, Allen said his relationship with Previn was over; she alleged that Allen asked her to issue a joint press release, in response to rumors about the relationship, in which she would confirm there was nothing between Allen and Previn, but she refused to do it. She was hurt and angry; in February she sent Allen a Valentine card with skewers through the hearts of the children and a knife through hers. She nevertheless adopted two more children that month: Tam, a blind Vietnamese girl, and Isaiah Justus, an African-American baby boy.\n\nAllen and Previn remained in contact; in July 1992 she lost her job as a summer-camp counselor in Maine after spending too much time on the telephone with a \"Mr. Simon\", who turned out to be Allen. In July 1992, after Allen visited Connecticut to celebrate Dylan's birthday, Farrow left a note near Allen's bedroom, in which she called him a \"child molester.\" On 1 August 1992, according to the testimony of Dr. Susan Coates, Farrow telephoned Dr. Coates to say she had learned that Previn and Allen were still in a relationship; Farrow was distressed and told Coates that, just a week earlier, she and Allen had talked about getting married. Allen publicly announced his relationship with Previn on August 17th, 1992. As Allen and Mia Farrow had never gotten married, and as Allen had never adopted Soon-Yi, their relationship was not illegal. Previn and Allen's relationship did continue, and they were married in Venice on December 23, 1997.\n\nOn August 4, 1992, Allen visited his children at Farrow's country home in Bridgewater, Connecticut, while Farrow and a friend went shopping with the two most recently adopted children, Tam and Isaiah. Farrow and Allen had been due on August 6 to sign an agreement that Allen would pay $6,000 a month for the support of Dylan, Satchel and Moses.\n\nPresent in the house, once Farrow had left, were Dylan and Satchel; Farrow's babysitter, Kristie Groteke; the children's French tutor, Sophie Berge; Farrow's friend's three children; and Farrow's friend's babysitter, Alison Stickland. The day after the visit, Stickland told her employer that she had seen Allen kneel on the floor in front of Dylan, then aged seven, with his face in her lap turned toward Dylan's body; she testified to that effect during the custody trial. When Farrow asked Dylan about it, Dylan described what had happened and said she had not liked it; she also said that Allen had touched her \"private part\" while they were alone together in the attic crawl space.\n\nFarrow made a videotape of Dylan repeating the allegation, which she said was filmed \"in fits and starts\" over the following 24 hours, and telephoned her lawyer, who told her to take Dylan to a doctor. Farrow took Dylan to Dr. Vadakkekara Kavirajan, the regular paediatrician for Farrow's children. Dylan did not repeat the allegation to the paediatrician that day, but she did the following day during a second visit; Dr. Kavirajan then informed authorities, The doctor found no physical evidence of sexual assault.Dr. Kavirajan would later tell an interviewer that he was \"required by state law\" to report any allegations of child abuse. Dr. Susan Coates informed Allen of the allegation during a therapy session; he responded \"I'm completely flabbergasted,\" repeating it several times.\n\nOn August 13, 1992, a week after being told about the allegation, Allen began proceedings in New York Supreme Court for sole custody of Dylan, Moses, and his and Farrow's biological son, Satchel. Farrow's mother, the actor Maureen O'Sullivan, issued a statement on August 15 that was critical of Allen and said that Farrow had retained Alan Dershowitz. Two days later, Allen released his first public comment about his relationship with Soon-Yi Previn: \"Regarding my love for Soon-Yi: It's real and happily all true. She's a lovely, intelligent, sensitive woman who has and continues to turn around my life in a wonderfully positive way.\"\n\nOn August 18 Allen held a news conference at the Plaza Hotel. Calling the molestation allegation \"an unconscionable and gruesomely damaging manipulation of innocent children for vindictive and self-serving motives\", he alleged that, during a meeting on August 3, Farrow's lawyers had demanded $5–8 million. Dershowitz responded that the lawyers had suggested Allen pay a lump sum in child support, rather than a monthly one, to reduce Allen's interaction with Farrow. On August 20 Allen's publicist announced that Allen had passed a lie detector test. The following day, Allen gave an interview to Walter Isaacson of \"Time\" magazine, describing the nude photographs of Previn as a \"lark of a moment\". Of the affair, he said: \"I didn't feel that just because she was Mia's daughter, there was any great moral dilemma. It was a fact, but not one with any great import.\"\n\nOn August 17 the Connecticut State Police announced that they were investigating the assault allegation. Frank Maco, the Connecticut State's Attorney for the Litchfield district, asked the Child Sexual Abuse Clinic of Yale–New Haven Hospital to evaluate whether Dylan would make a viable witness. Consisting of two social workers, a nurse and Dr. John M. Leventhal, a pediatrician, the Yale–New Haven team interviewed Dylan, Dylan's psychologist, Allen, Farrow, their domestic staff, and others. Leventhal signed the team's report, while Dylan was interviewed by the social workers. Completed in March 1993, the report went beyond its brief, concluding: \"It is our expert opinion that Dylan was not sexually abused by Mr. Allen\". Its conclusion was based, in part, on the view that Dylan had difficulty telling a consistent story and suffered from \"thought disturbances\". The team destroyed its notes for reasons that were never explained. It passed its report directly to Allen and Farrow, rather than giving it to Maco, who had requested it. Maco told a reporter in 1997 that Yale \"took the case and ran away with it\".\n\nThe custody hearings began on March 19, 1993, in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, and ended on May 4. Journalists were allowed in court but not with television cameras or microphones. Taking the stand on the first day, Allen said the allegation was Farrow's vengeance for his affair with Soon Yi-Previn, which he had not intended to be \"anything but a private thing\"; he had hoped Farrow would not find out about it. He described her anger when she did.\nKristie Groteke, Farrow's babysitter, testified in April that for about 15–20 minutes on the afternoon in question, she had not been able to find Dylan or Allen in the house; she had assumed they were outside with the other children. Allen said he had gone to the bathroom during the disputed period. The children's French tutor, Sophie Berge, testified that she had noticed Dylan had been wearing no underwear under her dress that day. Another Farrow-household nanny, Monica Thompson, who was not present in the house on that day, told Allen's lawyers in two affidavits in February 1993 that she had felt pressured by Farrow to support the allegation. Thompson said that Groteke had also had reservations; according to Thompson, Groteke told her, days after the allegation was made, that she \"did not have Dylan out of her sight for longer than five minutes. She did not remember Dylan being without her underwear.\"\n\nDr. Susan Coates, a Farrow family therapist, testified that Farrow had been so angry with Allen when she discovered the affair with Previn that Coates had feared for Allen's safety. Farrow's lawyer accused Coates of gullibility for having accepted Allen's version of events. One of Allen's lawyers alleged that Farrow's lawyers had suggested \"the charges could be made to go away\" if Allen agreed to pay around $7 million. Alan Dershowitz, representing Farrow, said there had been an \"exploratory\" session to attempt mediation. \"To have this described as an extortionate meeting is ridiculous,\" he said. He added that Allen's lawyers were \"trying to set a trap, the trap failed and now they testify as if the trap succeeded\". One of Allen's lawyers acknowledged when cross-examined that the discussion about money related mostly to the children's education and medical care, as well as money owed for Farrow's film work for Allen.\n\nDr. John Leventhal of the Yale–New Haven Child Sexual Abuse Clinic testified by deposition on 20 April. Citing inconsistencies in Dylan's account, he said the Yale–New Haven team \"had two hypotheses: one, that these were statements that were made by an emotionally disturbed child and then became fixed in her mind. And the other hypothesis was that she was coached or influenced by her mother. We did not come to a firm conclusion. We think that it was probably a combination.\" Farrow and Allen both hired experts to discuss the report. Dr. Anne Meltzer, a forensic psychologist, testified for Allen that the report had \"reached conclusions that were supported well by the data they collected.\" She said the tape of Dylan making the allegation was \"flawed\" because it had been filmed by one side and not by a professional. Dr. Stephen Harman, a child psychiatrist, testified for Farrow that the report was \"seriously flawed\", and that he could find no evidence of a thought disorder in Dylan's statements. According to Charles Patrick Ewing and Joseph McCann, the most damaging criticism of the report was that the team had destroyed its notes from the interviews it conducted, which meant the court could not test the validity of the report's conclusions; they write that forensic experts have an obligation to retain their notes for review. Another criticism was that the team was unwilling to testify in court, except via Leventhal's deposition.\n\nIn his 33-page decision in June 1993, Justice Elliott Wilk rejected Allen's bid for custody of the three children, and denied Allen immediate visitation rights with Dylan, saying of Allen's behavior toward Dylan that it was \"grossly inappropriate and that measures must be taken to protect her\". His criticism of Allen's parenting was harsh. Rejecting Allen's portrayal of Farrow as a \"woman scorned\", Wilk said there was no credible evidence that she had coached Dylan, and he criticized Allen for his \"trial strategy\" of turning family members and employees against one another. The Yale–New Haven team's unwillingness to testify in court, except through Leventhal's deposition, together with the destruction of its notes, had rendered its report, he wrote, \"sanitized and, therefore, less credible\". Wilk called the case \"frivolous\" and ordered Allen to pay Farrow's costs.\n\nThe police interviewed Allen in Litchfield in January 1993 for over three hours. He said he had never been in the attic crawl space; when the police said they had taken fingerprints in there, he said it was possible that his prints were there. On September 20 that year, Frank Maco, the State's Attorney, accompanied by a female police detective, talked to Dylan; Maco told a reporter in 1997: \"I saw complete withdrawal any time I tried to discuss the incident.\"\n\nOn September 24, 1993, Maco held a news conference to say that he would not pursue the molestation allegation, despite having probable cause, citing a desire not to traumatize Dylan.In a letter to the New York Department of Social Sevices, Allen's psychotherapist Kathryn Prescott stated that Allen's psychological profile \"was definitely not that of a sexual offender\" and also stated “There has never been any suggestion that Mr. Allen was suffering from a sexual perversion / deviant sexual behavior”. The New York Department of Social Services closed its own 14-month investigation in October 1993; its letter to Allen stated: \"No credible evidence was found that the child named in this report has been abused or maltreated. This report has, therefore, been considered unfounded.\"\n\nAllen filed complaints with the Connecticut Criminal Justice Commission and the statewide bar counsel over Maco's statement about probable cause. The former dismissed the complaint in November 1993. In February 1994 the statewide Grievance Committee ruled that, while Maco had not violated the state's code of conduct for lawyers, his statement was a cause of \"grave concern\". In addition, Maco had sent a copy of his statement to the judge who was deciding whether to overturn Allen's adoption of Dylan and Moses. That act was \"inappropriate, unsolicited and potentially prejudicial\", the panel ruled.\n\nIn December 1992 Farrow began legal action, which was ultimately unsuccessful, to have Allen's adoption of Dylan and Moses declared void. Her position was based, in part, on her view that Allen's affair with Soon-Yi Previn had begun before the adoption was finalized on December 17, 1991. Allen stated that the sexual relationship had started in the last week of 1991. Allen offered not to appeal the custody ruling if Farrow would drop her attempt to have his adoption of Dylan and Moses declared void, but she refused.\n\nIn January 1994 Allen appealed Wilk's decision. Of the assault allegation, the appellate court stated that its \"review of the record militates against a finding that Ms. Farrow fabricated the allegations without any basis\". Although the Yale–New Haven team's view that Dylan had a tendency to \"withdraw into a fantasy\", and that she had offered inconsistent accounts, had to be taken into account, the court stated that \"the testimony given at trial by the individuals caring for the children that day, the videotape of Dylan made by Ms. Farrow the following day and the accounts of Dylan's behavior toward Mr. Allen both before and after the alleged instance of abuse, suggest that the abuse did occur.\" It added that \"the evidence in support of the allegations remains inconclusive\". The court was critical of Allen's parenting skills and relationship with Soon-Yi Previn. The appeal failed, although two of the five judges said the visitation rights regarding Satchel were too restrictive. Allen appealed again, and in July 1995 the New York Court of Appeals upheld the original decision.\n\nIn her 1997 memoir, \"What Falls Away\", Farrow repeated the accusation that Allen had sexually abused Dylan Farrow. Farrow's abuse allegation was mentioned in several of the book's reviews. \n\nWhen Allen won the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in January 2014, Mia Farrow and Satchel (now the journalist Ronan Farrow) tweeted objections. Dylan Farrow, by then 28, repeated the assault allegation the following month in an open letter in \"The New York Times\" blog of Nicholas Kristof, a family friend. Writing that Allen had made her feel uncomfortable \"for as long as [she] could remember\", she alleged, for example, that he would get into bed with her in his underwear and that she would hide to avoid him. Allen called the allegations \"untrue and disgraceful\", and responded with an op-ed in \"The New York Times\". The newspaper allowed Dylan's open letter 936 words within Kristof's blog, Ronan wrote, while Allen's op-ed was given twice the length and published in the print edition.\n\nRonan, aged four in 1992, has been critical of Allen for several years; in 2011 he tweeted: \"He's my father married to my sister. That makes me his son and his brother-in-law. That is such a moral transgression.\" In \"The Hollywood Reporter\" in May 2016, he wrote that, following the publication of Dylan's open letter, his colleagues had forwarded him the daily emails \"blasted out by Allen's powerful publicist\", with an open cc list, offering talking points for reporters and the names of friends, therapists and lawyers willing to be interviewed. He wrote: \"Reporters on the receiving end of this kind of PR blitz have to wonder if deviating from the talking points might jeopardize their access to all the other A-list clients.\" \n\nDylan's brother Moses Farrow, who was 14 in 1992, has taken a different view; he has reconciled with Allen and is now estranged from the Farrow family. When Dylan published her open letter, he said in an interview that several people had been in the house on the disputed day and that \"no one, not my father or sister, was off in any private spaces\". He asserted that Mia Farrow had cultivated a climate in which he and his siblings had felt compelled to support her views, and that she had both physically and emotionally abused him. He repeated the allegations in 2017 to Eric Lax, one of Allen's biographers. Moses Farrow offered additional details defending Allen in a May 23, 2018, a blog post. In that letter he accused Mia Farrow of child abuse and neglect, coupled with a white savior complex: \"When Soon-Yi was young, Mia once threw a large porcelain centerpiece at her head. Luckily it missed, but the shattered pieces hit her legs. Years later, Mia beat her with a telephone receiver.\"\n\nIn December 2017, following the Weinstein controversy, Dylan Farrow wrote an op-ed in the \"Los Angeles Times\" asking, \"Why has the #MeToo revolution spared Woody Allen?\" She repeated the assault allegation in January 2018 in a television interview with Gayle King for \"CBS This Morning\". Allen issued a statement in response:\n\nAfter Dylan Farrow's 2014 open letter, several actors issued statements critical of Allen, including Rosie O'Donnell, Lena Dunham, Sarah Silverman, and Susan Sarandon.\n\nThe mood changed further as a result of the #MeToo and Time's Up movements and Dylan's op-ed. In November 2017 during a women's rally, a banner referring to the allegation was hung around the neck of Allen's statue in Oviedo, Spain, and a women's group later asked that the statue be removed. From October 2017 statements supportive of Dylan, or expressing regret at having worked with Allen, were issued by Griffin Newman, Ellen Page, Evan Rachel Wood, David Krumholtz, Greta Gerwig, Mira Sorvino, Rebecca Hall, Timothée Chalamet, Rachel Brosnahan, Natalie Portman, Colin Firth, Marion Cotillard, Chloë Sevigny, Joaquin Phoenix, Hayley Atwell, Peter Sarsgaard, Elle Fanning, and Michael Caine. Newman, Hall, Chalamet and Fanning said they would donate their earnings from Allen's film \"A Rainy Day in New York\" (2018) to charities. In January 2018, the Goodspeed Opera House in Connecticut canceled its adaptation of Allen's film \"Bullets over Broadway\" (1994). In February 2018, Circle Theater in Grand Rapids, Michigan also cancelled their adaptation of \"Bullets over Broadway\". \n\nThose expressing support for Allen included Barbara Walters and Diane Keaton in 2014, as well as Javier Bardem, Alec Baldwin, and Keaton again in January 2018. Robert B. Weide, who made a documentary film on Allen, published his rebuttals to the Farrow allegations in an article \"The Woody Allen Allegations: Not So Fast\". Cherry Jones, addressing the topic, said, \"There are those who are comfortable in their certainty. I am not. I don't know the truth ... When we condemn by instinct our democracy is on a slippery slope.\" Emily Mortimer, when asked about Allen in an interview, said \"I believe in due process...I think these things really need to go through all the legal processes before anyone can judge. I don’t really have an answer to those questions.\" Jeff Daniels, when asked if he would work with Allen again, responded: \"I believe Dylan Farrow. Would I do another one with Woody? The difficult decision would be to turn him down, because of \"The Purple Rose of Cairo\".\" In February 2018, Savanah Lyon, a theater major at the University of California, San Diego, began organising an online petition to have a course teaching Allen's films removed from the UCSD syllabus. Lyon stated that because of the abuse allegations against him, the university should not have a class devoted to studying Allen's work. On February 16th, the UCSD Academic Senate announced that they were going to retain the course on Allen's work, stating that the removal of courses featuring \"controversial material, or even material widely regarded as morally problematic\" would undermine the values of free inquiry and academic freedom. Cate Blanchett, when asked about the allegations against Allen by Christiane Amanpour, replied \"At the time, I said it’s a very painful and complicated situation for the family, which I hope they have the ability to resolve.\" Blanchett added: \"If these allegations need to be re-examined which, in my understanding, they’ve been through court, then I’m a big believer in the justice system and setting legal precedents...If the case needs to be reopened, I am absolutely, wholeheartedly in support of that.\" Javier Bardem stated: \"I am very shocked by this sudden treatment. Judgements in the states of New York and Connecticut found him innocent. The legal situation today is the same as in 2007. If there was evidence Woody Allen was guilty, then yes, I would have stopped working with him, but I have doubts.\" Bardem in another interview stated: \"“If the legal situation ever changes [regarding Allen], then I’d change my mind. But for now I don’t agree with the public lynching that he’s been receiving, and if Woody Allen called me to work with him again, I’d be there tomorrow morning. He’s a genius.” Penélope Cruz stated: \"“The only answer that I can give you with common sense that is not about a headline is, the case has to be looked at again, “The important thing is, if there is a case anywhere in the world that isn’t clear, then why not look at it again? I am in favor of that.”\n\nMoses Farrow wrote an extensive blog post accusing Mia Farrow of emotionally abusing her children and driving some to suicide: \"Most media sources claim my sister Tam died of 'heart failure' at the age of 21. In fact, Tam struggled with depression for much of her life, a situation exacerbated by my mother refusing to get her help, insisting that Tam was just 'moody.' One afternoon in 2000, after one final fight with Mia, which ended with my mother leaving the house, Tam committed suicide by overdosing on pills.\" His sister Soon-Yi had written similarly in 1992, saying in a statement, \"Mia was always very hot-tempered and given to rages which terrified all the kids. They can't speak freely because they're still dependent on her. But they could really tell stories and I'm sure one day will. It's true Mia was violent with me and I have conclusive proof, but I hope she and Woody can somehow head off a custody trial.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14353090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14353090", "title": "Wíčazo Ša Review", "text": "Wíčazo Ša Review\n\nThe Wíčazo Ša Review (\"Red Pencil\" in Lakota) is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal of Native American studies. The journal was established in 1985 by editors-in-chief Elizabeth Cook-Lynn, Roger Buffalohead, and William Willard. \"Wíčazo Ša Review\" is published by the University of Minnesota Press, which acquired it in 1999. Originally it was published at Eastern Washington University, under the guidance of its Native American Studies center. Issues include essays, articles, interviews, reviews, poems, short stories, course outlines, curriculum designs, scholarly research and literary criticism reflective of Native American studies and related fields. The current editor is James Riding In (Arizona State University).\n"}
