{"id": "39270615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39270615", "title": "Aargau Jura Park", "text": "Aargau Jura Park\n\nThe Aargau Jura Park is located north of Aarau, between the rivers Aare and Rhine, in the Swiss canton of Aargau. It straddles the border between Jura and Basel. It spans and reaches up to above the valley floor. The park is mainly located on the Jurassic Plateau, between Frick and Villigen, and also encompasses the Aargau Jura mountains and valleys. The northern area includes sparse pine forests, fruit orchards, rocky steppes, dry meadows and terraced vineyards, while the southern region fosters forests and wildlife. It was declared a regional nature park of national importance in 2012 by the Federal Office for the Environment. \n\nThe villages Herznach and Wölfinswil traditionally mined ore in the park and thus, left many studs. A mining tunnel was excavated and made accessible to visitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19168310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19168310", "title": "Aberdeen Falls", "text": "Aberdeen Falls\n\nAberdeen Falls is a high waterfall on the Kehelgamu Oya near Ginigathena, in the Nuwara Eliya District of Sri Lanka. Aberdeen is named after Aberdeen, the third largest city in Scotland and the capital of Aberdeenshire. Kehelgamu Oya is a major tributary of the Kelani River. \n\nTo reach Aberdeen Falls from Ginigathena town, one then must proceed along Ambatale Road up to the Buddha statue at the end of the road. Then one should park their vehicle and walk about 1.2 km along the road. Bathing in the middle of the pool and swimming to the middle has caused death to swimmers in the past. This waterfall is covered with a big stone complex behind. The waterfall is ranked as the 18th highest on the Island.\n"}
{"id": "58221443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58221443", "title": "Aces (river)", "text": "Aces (river)\n\nAces (), is a river of Asia, flowing through a plain surrounded by mountains, respecting which a story is told by Herodotus. Geographers are not agreed as to the locality. It seems to be somewhere in Central Asia, east of the Caspian. It is pretty clear, at all events, that the Aces of Herodotus is not the Indian river Acesines (modern Chenab).\n"}
{"id": "412390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412390", "title": "Administrative divisions of Azerbaijan", "text": "Administrative divisions of Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan is administratively divided into the following subdivisions:\n\nThe rayons are further divided into municipalities (\"Bələdiyyəsi\").\n\nAdditionally, Azerbaijan is subdivided into 9 (economic) regions (\"İqtisadi Rayonar\"; sing.– \"İqtisadi Rayonu\").\nThis is not an administrative division. Each region contains a number of districts. The Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic forms a separate, the 10th economic region.\n\nThe territory of Nagorno-Karabakh presently forms part of Azerbaijani \"rayons\" Khojavend, Shusha, Khojaly, the east portion of Kalbajar and the west portion of Tartar. In Soviet times the region was known as Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast; however on November 26, 1991, the Parliament of the Azerbaijan SSR abolished the autonomous status of the NKAO. Since then the territory of the autonomous oblast has been administratively split between the aforementioned rayons.\n\nAs a result of the Nagorno-Karabakh War, most of its territory is now under the control of ethnic Armenian forces from Nagorno-Karabakh and Armenia. The self-proclaimed Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (NKR) also controls a large part of southwestern Azerbaijan outside Nagorno-Karabakh. The Azerbaijani rayons completely or partially in the NKR are noted in the list. The NKR does not recognise these rayons and has its own system of administrative division.\n\nThe list below is for the main part of Azerbaijan, excluding the rayons of Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic.\n\nThe seven districts and one municipality of the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "2233278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2233278", "title": "Caledonia", "text": "Caledonia\n\nCaledonia () is the Latin name given by the Romans to the land in today's Scotland, north of their province of \"Britannia\", beyond the frontier of their empire. The etymology of the name is probably from a P-Celtic source. Its modern usage is as a romantic or poetic name for Scotland as a whole, comparable with Hibernia for Ireland and Cambria for Wales.\n\nThe original use of the name, by Tacitus, Ptolemy, Lucan and Pliny the Elder, referred to the area (or parts of the area) later known as \"Pictavia\" or Pictland north of Hadrian's Wall in today's Scotland. The name may be related to that of a large central Pictish tribe, the \"Caledonii\", one amongst several in the area and perhaps the dominant tribe, which would explain the binomial Caledonia/Caledonii.\n\nThe name of the Caledonians may be found in toponymy, such as \"Dùn Chailleann\", the Scottish Gaelic word for the town of Dunkeld meaning \"fort of the Caledonii\", and possibly in that of the mountain \"Sìdh Chailleann\", the \"fairy hill of the Caledonians\". According to \"Historia Brittonum\" the site of the seventh battle of the mythical Arthur was a forest in what is now Scotland, called \"Coit Celidon\" in early Welsh.\n\nAccording to Zimmer (2006), Caledonia is derived from the tribal name \"Caledones\" (or \"Calīdones\"), which he etymologises as possessing hard feet', alluding to standfastness or endurance\", from the Proto-Celtic roots \"*kal-\" \"hard\" and \"*φēdo-\" \"foot\".\n\nThe exact location of what the Romans called Caledonia in the early stages of Britannia is uncertain, and the boundaries are unlikely to have been fixed until the building of Hadrian's Wall. From then onwards, Caledonia stood to the north of the wall, and to the south was the Roman province of Britannia (consisting of most of what is now England and Wales). During the brief Roman military incursions into central and northern Scotland, the Scottish Lowlands were indeed absorbed into the province of Britannia, and the name was also used by the Romans, prior to their conquest of the southern and central parts of the island, to refer to the whole island of Great Britain.\n\nOnce the Romans had built a second wall further to the north (the Antonine Wall) and their garrisons advanced north likewise, the developing Roman-Britons south of the wall had trade relations with the Picts north of the wall, as testified by archaeological evidence, much of it available at the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh.\n\nThe modern use of \"Caledonia\" in English and Scots is either as a historical description of northern Britain during the Roman era or as a romantic or poetic name for Scotland as a whole.\n\nThe name has been widely used by organisations and commercial entities. Notable examples include Glasgow Caledonian University, ferry operator Caledonian MacBrayne, and the now-defunct British Caledonian airline and Caledonian Railway. The Caledonian Sleeper is an overnight train service from London to Scottish destinations. The Inverness Caledonian Thistle F.C. is a professional football club. In music, \"Caledonia\" is a popular folk ballad written by Dougie MacLean in 1977 and published in 1979 on an album of the same name; it has since been covered by various other artists, most notably Frankie Miller. The web series \"Caledonia\" and associated novel is a supernatural police drama that takes place in Glasgow, Scotland.\n\nPtolemy's account also referred to the \"Caledonia Silva\", an idea still recalled in the modern expression \"Caledonian Forest\", although the woods are much reduced in size since Roman times.\n\nSome scholars point out that the name \"Scotland\" is ultimately derived from Scotia, a Latin term first used for Ireland (also called Hibernia by the Romans) and later for Scotland, the Scoti peoples having originated in Ireland and resettled in Scotland. Another, post-conquest, Roman name for the island of Great Britain was Albion, which is cognate with the Scottish Gaelic name for Scotland: \"Alba\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14936600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14936600", "title": "Cerro El Pital", "text": "Cerro El Pital\n\nCerro El Pital is a mountain in Central America, on the border of El Salvador and Honduras. It is located from the town of La Palma at a height of above sea level, and is the highest point in Salvadoran territory. Cerro El Pital is in the middle of a cloud forest that has an average annual temperature of .\n\nIt is one of the most popular tourist draws in El Salvador, with great biodiversity in a wide altitudinal range containing many endangered species of flora and fauna. The cloud forest has some of the rarest plants and animals in the country, including quetzals and other endangered species.\n\nFrom November to February the temperature ranges between and (lowest recorded, in January 1956) and in the rest of the year the temperature ranges between and . It is the coldest place in El Salvador. On 13 April 2004, much of the mountain was blanketed by an accumulation of hail during a storm, an unusual event that caused a commotion among the local community.\n"}
{"id": "23317914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23317914", "title": "Chalk heath", "text": "Chalk heath\n\nChalk heath is a rare habitat, in the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome, formed of a paradoxical mixture of shallow-rooted calcifuge (\"calcium-hating\") and deeper-rooted calcicole (\"calcium-loving\") plants, growing on a thin layer of acidic soil over an alkaline substrate. Chalk heath is intermediate between two much more widespread habitats, chalk grassland and heathland.\n\nChalk heath occurs where a thin layer of acidic soil (often loess or sand) overlies a basic (alkaline) one, such as chalk. Shallow-rooted plants grow only in the acidic soil (typically a few centimetres thick), and so these are species characteristic of acidic habitats. Deeper-rooted plants can reach the underlying alkaline substrate, and so these include species characteristic of alkaline habitats. Plants also occur which are able to tolerate both acidic and basic conditions. There are no plants restricted entirely to chalk heath, and the animals are also those characteristic of chalk grassland and heathland. The vegetation structure of chalk heath resembles grass heath, being short grassy vegetation with heather growing up through it, with some scattered heather bushes.\n\nChalk heath often occurs at the tops of slopes, at the thin margins of acidic deposits which often cap the flatter tops of chalk hills. It usually gives way to chalk grassland on lower slopes where these deposits have been eroded away, and often to heathland on the hilltops where the acidic deposits are thicker. Chalk heath tends to occur as narrow strips and scattered fragments, being limited to places where the conditions are exactly right for its development and survival.\n\nChalk heath is a grazing habitat, created and maintained by livestock (usually sheep and cattle) and rabbits.\n\nChalk heath in southern Britain includes calcicoles such as salad burnet (\"Sanguisorba minor\"), dropwort (\"Filipendula vulgaris\") and common milkwort (\"Polygala vulgaris\"), and calcifuges such as bell heather (\"Erica cinerea\"), ling heather (\"Calluna vulgaris\"), heath grass (\"Danthonia decumbens\"), sheep's sorrel (\"Rumex acetosella\") and betony (\"Stachys officinalis\"). It also includes plants which can tolerate both acidic and basic conditions, such as common bent (\"Agrostis capillaris\"), wood sage (\"Teucrium scorodonia\") and sometimes juniper (\"Juniperus communis\").\n\nChalk heath has suffered a parallel decline to those of heathland and chalk grassland, but because of the scattered and fragmented distribution of suitable soil conditions it has declined even more than those habitats. Many examples have disappeared due to agricultural improvement, or to a lack of grazing management, which leads to replacement by species-poor scrub and woodland. Chalk heath is especially sensitive to soil disturbance such as ploughing, which mixes the thin layer of acidic soil with the chalk beneath.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40754326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40754326", "title": "Cryoplanation", "text": "Cryoplanation\n\nIn geomorphology, cryoplanation or altiplanation is a term used to both describe and explain the formation of plains, terraces and pediments in periglacial environments. Uncertainty surrounds the term, and the effectiveness of the cryoplanation process is held to be limited meaning it can only produce small terraces. Instead, many of so-called cryoplanation terraces are likely an expression of the underlying lithology and rock structure rather than being unique products of cold-climate processes.\n\nCryoplanation can be seen as a variant of pediplanation that is restricted to cold climates. All the cryoplanation surfaces that exists at present date to the Quaternary. \n\nThe existence of flat bedrock surfaces in the mountains of Siberia was noted in the 1930s. Soviet scientists S.G. Boch and I.I. Krasnov first proposed a cyclical model for the formation these surfaces in 1943. This model influenced central and western European geomorphologists. Carl Troll, writing in German, called these surfaces “solifluktions-rumpf”, and Jean Tricart, writing in French called them “penéplaine périglaciaire”. In 1946 Kirk Bryan coined the English term “cryoplanation”. From the late 1970s onwards these surfaces are seldom mentioned in Russian scientific literature. \n\nTerraces formed by cryoplanation are called \"cryoplanation terraces\". Czudek described cryoplanation terraces as \"gently inclined or nearly horizontal bedrock-cut benches on slopes, spurs and on broad interfluves\" that are formed by the \"parallel retreat of steeper slope segments under periglacial conditions\". Additionally, with the effect of cryoplanation on the landscape, the vegetation on these frost-altered terraces is also reshaped. The vegetation tends to be uniquely uniform both laterally and vertically. The results of this unique freeze-thaw cycle are customarily found in Arctic periglacial regions of Eastern Siberia and Alaska. They may also be found in areas that currently or have sometime in the past experienced intense seasonal freezing or permafrost. \n\nIn 1950 Peltier proposed the existence of a \"periglacial cycle of erosion\". This would begin with a non-periglaciated landscape. Once-periglaciated mass wasting of regolith exposes bedrock in the upper slopes. These outcrops are then subject to frost weathering that makes slopes retreat forming extensive blockfields at the base of the bedrock areas. At a later stage solifluction wears down summits and fills in topographic lows.\n\nThe concept has been questioned. According to geomorpholigists Kevin Hall and Marie-Françoise André the theory has caused confusion because of “the almost complete absence of actual data from active cryoplanation terraces”. It is considered unlikely that cryoplanation can produce any large surfaces. Cryoplanation can be defined as a variant of pediplanation that is restricted to cold climates. Some terraces developed on flood basalt in eastern Lesotho Highlands, Southern Africa, have been suggested to fit most of the criteria to be cryoplanation terraces except they are more the result of rock structure than of planation.\n\n"}
{"id": "31251910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31251910", "title": "DART radiative transfer model", "text": "DART radiative transfer model\n\nDART (Discrete anisotropic radiative transfer) is a 3D radiative transfer model, designed for scientific research, in particular remote sensing. Developed at CESBIO since 1992, DART model was patented in 2003. It is freeware for scientific activities.\n\nDART model simulates, simultaneously in several wavelengths of the optical domain (e.g., visible and thermal infrared), the radiative budget and remotely sensed images of any Earth scene (natural / urban with /without relief), for any sun direction, any atmosphere, any view direction and any sensor FTM. It was designed to be precise, easy to use and adapted for operational use. For that, it simulates: \n\nIt simulates any landscape as a 3D matrice of cells that contain turbid material and triangles. Turbid material is used for simulating vegetation (e.g., tree crowns, grass, agricultural crops,…) and the atmosphere. Triangles are used for simulating translucent and opaque surfaces that makes up topography, urban elements and 3D vegetation. DART can use structural and spectral data bases (atmosphere, vegetation, soil,…). It includes a LIDAR simulation mode.\n\nThe approaches used to simulate radiative transfer differ on 2 levels: mathematical method of resolution and mode of representation of the propagation medium. These two levels are in general dependent. The models of radiative transfer are often divided into 2 categories associated with the 2 principal modes of representation of the landscape: homogeneous or heterogeneous representation. For the models known as homogeneous (Idso and of Wit, 1970; Ross, 1981; Verhoef, 1984; Myneni et al., 1989), the landscape is represented by a constant horizontal distribution of absorbing and scattering elements (sheets, branches, etc...). On the other hand, for the models known as heterogeneous, the landscape is represented by a no uniform space distribution of unspecified elements of the landscape (North, 1996; Govaerts, 1998).\n\nDART simulates radiative transfer in the \"Earth-Atmosphere\" system, for any wavelength in the optical domain (shortwaves : visible, thermal infrared,…). Its approach combines the ray tracing and the discrete ordinate methods. It works with natural and urban landscapes (forests with different types of trees, buildings, rivers,…), with topography and atmosphere above and within the landscape. It simulates light propagation from solar irradiance (Top of Atmosphere) and/or thermal emission within the scene.\n\nThe study of the functioning of Continental surfaces requires the understanding of the various energetic and physiologic mechanisms that influence these surfaces. For example, the radiation absorbed in the visible spectral domain is the major energy source for vegetation photosynthesis. Moreover, energy and mass fluxes at the \"Earth - Atmosphere\" interface affect surface functioning, and consequently climatology.\n\nIn this context, Earth observation from space (i.e., space remote sensing) is an indispensable tool, due to its unique potential to provide synoptic and continuous surveys of the Earth, at different time and space scales.\n\nThe difficulty in studying continental surfaces arises from the complexity of the energetic and physiologic processes involved and also from the different time and space scales concerned. It comes also from the complexity of satellite remote sensing space and from its links to quantities that characterize Earth functioning. These remarks underline the need of models, because only these can couple and gather within a single scheme all concerned processes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4917069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4917069", "title": "Departments of Mauritania", "text": "Departments of Mauritania\n\nThe Regions of Mauritania are subdivided into 44 departments. The departments are listed below, by region:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1866009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866009", "title": "Environmentalism", "text": "Environmentalism\n\nEnvironmentalism or environmental rights is a broad philosophy, ideology, and social movement regarding concerns for environmental protection and improvement of the health of the environment, particularly as the measure for this health seeks to incorporate the impact of changes to the environment on humans, animals, plants and non-living matter. While environmentalism focuses more on the environmental and nature-related aspects of green ideology and politics, ecologism combines the ideology of social ecology and environmentalism. Ecologism is more commonly used in continental European languages while ‘environmentalism’ is more commonly used in English but the words have slightly different connotations.\n\nEnvironmentalism advocates the preservation, restoration and/or improvement of the natural environment, and may be referred to as a movement to control pollution or protect plant and animal diversity. For this reason, concepts such as a land ethic, environmental ethics, biodiversity, ecology, and the biophilia hypothesis figure predominantly.\n\nAt its crux, environmentalism is an attempt to balance relations between humans and the various natural systems on which they depend in such a way that all the components are accorded a proper degree of sustainability. The exact measures and outcomes of this balance is controversial and there are many different ways for environmental concerns to be expressed in practice. Environmentalism and environmental concerns are often represented by the color green, but this association has been appropriated by the marketing industries for the tactic known as greenwashing.\n\nEnvironmentalism is opposed by anti-environmentalism, which says that the Earth is less fragile than some environmentalists maintain, and portrays environmentalism as overreacting to the human contribution to climate change or opposing human advancement.\n\n\"Environmentalism\" denotes a social movement that seeks to influence the political process by lobbying, activism, and education in order to protect natural resources and ecosystems.\n\nAn \"environmentalist\" is a person who may speak out about our natural environment and the sustainable management of its resources through changes in public policy or individual behavior. This may include supporting practices such as informed consumption, conservation initiatives, investment in renewable resources, improved efficiencies in the materials economy, transitioning to new accounting paradigms such as Ecological economics, renewing and revitalizing our connections with non-human life or even opting to have one less child to reduce consumption and pressure on resources.\n\nIn various ways (for example, grassroots activism and protests), environmentalists and environmental organizations seek to give the natural world a stronger voice in human affairs.\n\nIn general terms, environmentalists advocate the sustainable management of resources, and the protection (and restoration, when necessary) of the natural environment through changes in public policy and individual behavior. In its recognition of humanity as a participant in ecosystems, the movement is centered around ecology, health, and human rights.\n\nA concern for environmental protection has recurred in diverse forms, in different parts of the world, throughout history. \nThe earliest ideas of environment protectionism can be traced in Jainism, which was revived by Mahavira in 6th century BC in ancient India. Jainism offers a view that may seem readily compatible with core values associated with environmental activism, i.e., protection of life by nonviolence; which could form the basis of strong ecological ethos thus adding its voice to global calls for protection of environment.\n\nIn Europe, King Edward I of England banned the burning of sea-coal by proclamation in London in 1272, after its smoke had become a problem. The fuel was so common in England that this earliest of names for it was acquired because it could be carted away from some shores by the wheelbarrow.\n\nEarlier in the Middle East, the Caliph Abu Bakr in the 630s commanded his army to \"Bring no harm to the trees, nor burn them with fire,\" and \"Slay not any of the enemy's flock, save for your food.\" Arabic medical treatises during the 9th to 13th centuries dealing with environmentalism and environmental science, including pollution, were written by Al-Kindi, Qusta ibn Luqa, Al-Razi, Ibn Al-Jazzar, al-Tamimi, al-Masihi, Avicenna, Ali ibn Ridwan, Ibn Jumay, Isaac Israeli ben Solomon, Abd-el-latif, Ibn al-Quff, and Ibn al-Nafis. Their works covered a number of subjects related to pollution, such as air pollution, water pollution, soil contamination, municipal solid waste mishandling, and environmental impact assessments of certain localities.\n\nThe origins of the environmental movement lay in the response to increasing levels of smoke pollution in the atmosphere during the Industrial Revolution. The emergence of great factories and the concomitant immense growth in coal consumption gave rise to an unprecedented level of air pollution in industrial centers; after 1900 the large volume of industrial chemical discharges added to the growing load of untreated human waste. The first large-scale, modern environmental laws came in the form of Britain's Alkali Acts, passed in 1863, to regulate the deleterious air pollution (gaseous hydrochloric acid) given off by the Leblanc process, used to produce soda ash. An Alkali inspector and four sub-inspectors were appointed to curb this pollution. The responsibilities of the inspectorate were gradually expanded, culminating in the Alkali Order 1958 which placed all major heavy industries that emitted smoke, grit, dust and fumes under supervision.\n\nIn industrial cities local experts and reformers, especially after 1890, took the lead in identifying environmental degradation and pollution, and initiating grass-roots movements to demand and achieve reforms. Typically the highest priority went to water and air pollution. The Coal Smoke Abatement Society was formed in 1898 making it one of the oldest environmental NGOs. It was founded by artist Sir William Blake Richmond, frustrated with the pall cast by coal smoke. Although there were earlier pieces of legislation, the Public Health Act 1875 required all furnaces and fireplaces to consume their own smoke. It also provided for sanctions against factories that emitted large amounts of black smoke. The provisions of this law were extended in 1926 with the Smoke Abatement Act to include other emissions, such as soot, ash and gritty particles and to empower local authorities to impose their own regulations.\n\nDuring the Spanish Revolution, anarchist controlled territories undertook several environmental reforms which were possibly the largest in the world at the time. Daniel Guerin notes that anarchist territories would diversify crops, extend irrigation, initiate reforestation, start tree nurseries and helped establish nudist colonies. Once there was a link discovered between air pollution and tuberculosis, the CNT shut down several metal factories.\n\nIt was, however, only under the impetus of the Great Smog of 1952 in London, which almost brought the city to a standstill and may have caused upward of 6,000 deaths that the Clean Air Act 1956 was passed and airborne pollution in the city was first tackled. Financial incentives were offered to householders to replace open coal fires with alternatives (such as installing gas fires), or for those who preferred, to burn coke instead (a byproduct of town gas production) which produces minimal smoke. 'Smoke control areas' were introduced in some towns and cities where only smokeless fuels could be burnt and power stations were relocated away from cities. The act formed an important impetus to modern environmentalism, and caused a rethinking of the dangers of environmental degradation to people's quality of life.\n\nThe late 19th century also saw the passage of the first wildlife conservation laws.\nThe zoologist Alfred Newton published a series of investigations into the \"Desirability of establishing a 'Close-time' for the preservation of indigenous animals\" between 1872 and 1903. His advocacy for legislation to protect animals from hunting during the mating season led to the formation of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and influenced the passage of the Sea Birds Preservation Act in 1869 as the first nature protection law in the world.\n\nEarly interest in the environment was a feature of the Romantic movement in the early 19th century. The poet William Wordsworth travelled extensively in the Lake District and wrote that it is a \"sort of national property in which every man has a right and interest who has an eye to perceive and a heart to enjoy\".\nSystematic efforts on behalf of the environment only began in the late 19th century; it grew out of the amenity movement in Britain in the 1870s, which was a reaction to industrialization, the growth of cities, and worsening air and water pollution. Starting with the formation of the Commons Preservation Society in 1865, the movement championed rural preservation against the encroachments of industrialisation. Robert Hunter, solicitor for the society, worked with Hardwicke Rawnsley, Octavia Hill, and John Ruskin to lead a successful campaign to prevent the construction of railways to carry slate from the quarries, which would have ruined the unspoilt valleys of Newlands and Ennerdale. This success led to the formation of the Lake District Defence Society (later to become The Friends of the Lake District).\n\nPeter Kropotkin wrote about ecology in economics, agricultural science, conservation, ethology, criminology, urban planning, geography, geology and biology. He observed in Swiss and Siberian glaciers that they had been slowly melting since the dawn of the industrial revolution, possibly making him one of the first predictors for climate change. He also observed the damage done from deforestation and hunting. Kropotkin's writings would become influential in the 1970s and became a major inspiration for the intentional community movement as well as his ideas becoming the basis for the theory of social ecology.\n\nIn 1893 Hill, Hunter and Rawnsley agreed to set up a national body to coordinate environmental conservation efforts across the country; the \"National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty\" was formally inaugurated in 1894. The organisation obtained secure footing through the 1907 National Trust Bill, which gave the trust the status of a statutory corporation. and the bill was passed in August 1907.\n\nAn early \"Back-to-Nature\" movement, which anticipated the romantic ideal of modern environmentalism, was advocated by intellectuals such as John Ruskin, William Morris, George Bernard Shaw and Edward Carpenter, who were all against consumerism, pollution and other activities that were harmful to the natural world. The movement was a reaction to the urban conditions of the industrial towns, where sanitation was awful, pollution levels intolerable and housing terribly cramped. Idealists championed the rural life as a mythical Utopia and advocated a return to it. John Ruskin argued that people should return to a \"small piece of English ground, beautiful, peaceful, and fruitful. We will have no steam engines upon it . . . we will have plenty of flowers and vegetables . . . we will have some music and poetry; the children will learn to dance to it and sing it.\"\n\nPractical ventures in the establishment of small cooperative farms were even attempted and old rural traditions, without the \"taint of manufacture or the canker of artificiality\", were enthusiastically revived, including the Morris dance and the maypole.\n\nThese ideas also inspired various environmental groups in the UK, such as the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, established in 1889 by Emily Williamson as a protest group to campaign for greater protection for the indigenous birds of the island. The Society attracted growing support from the suburban middle-classes as well as support from many other influential figures, such as the ornithologist Professor Alfred Newton. By 1900, public support for the organisation had grown, and it had over 25,000 members. The Garden city movement incorporated many environmental concerns into its urban planning manifesto; the Socialist League and The Clarion movement also began to advocate measures of nature conservation.\nThe movement in the United States began in the late 19th century, out of concerns for protecting the natural resources of the West, with individuals such as John Muir and Henry David Thoreau making key philosophical contributions. Thoreau was interested in peoples' relationship with nature and studied this by living close to nature in a simple life. He published his experiences in the book \"Walden\", which argues that people should become intimately close with nature. Muir came to believe in nature's inherent right, especially after spending time hiking in Yosemite Valley and studying both the ecology and geology. He successfully lobbied congress to form Yosemite National Park and went on to set up the Sierra Club in 1892. The conservationist principles as well as the belief in an inherent right of nature were to become the bedrock of modern environmentalism.\n\nIn the 20th century, environmental ideas continued to grow in popularity and recognition. Efforts were starting to be made to save some wildlife, particularly the American bison. The death of the last passenger pigeon as well as the endangerment of the American bison helped to focus the minds of conservationists and popularize their concerns. In 1916 the National Park Service was founded by US President Woodrow Wilson.\n\nThe Forestry Commission was set up in 1919 in Britain to increase the amount of woodland in Britain by buying land for afforestation and reforestation. The commission was also tasked with promoting forestry and the production of timber for trade. During the 1920s the Commission focused on acquiring land to begin planting out new forests; much of the land was previously used for agricultural purposes. By 1939 the Forestry Commission was the largest landowner in Britain.\nDuring the 1930s the Nazis had elements that were supportive of animal rights, zoos and wildlife, and took several measures to ensure their protection. In 1933 the government created a stringent animal-protection law and in 1934, \"Das Reichsjagdgesetz\" (The Reich Hunting Law) was enacted which limited hunting. Several Nazis were environmentalists (notably Rudolf Hess), and species protection and animal welfare were significant issues in the regime. In 1935, the regime enacted the \"Reich Nature Protection Act\" (\"Reichsnaturschutzgesetz\"). The concept of the \"Dauerwald\" (best translated as the \"perpetual forest\") which included concepts such as forest management and protection was promoted and efforts were also made to curb air pollution.\n\nIn 1949, \"A Sand County Almanac\" by Aldo Leopold was published. It explained Leopold's belief that humankind should have moral respect for the environment and that it is unethical to harm it. The book is sometimes called the most influential book on conservation.\n\nThroughout the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and beyond, photography was used to enhance public awareness of the need for protecting land and recruiting members to environmental organizations. David Brower, Ansel Adams and Nancy Newhall created the Sierra Club Exhibit Format Series, which helped raise public environmental awareness and brought a rapidly increasing flood of new members to the Sierra Club and to the environmental movement in general. \"This Is Dinosaur\" edited by Wallace Stegner with photographs by Martin Litton and Philip Hyde prevented the building of dams within Dinosaur National Monument by becoming part of a new kind of activism called environmentalism that combined the conservationist ideals of Thoreau, Leopold and Muir with hard-hitting advertising, lobbying, book distribution, letter writing campaigns, and more. The powerful use of photography in addition to the written word for conservation dated back to the creation of Yosemite National Park, when photographs persuaded Abraham Lincoln to preserve the beautiful glacier carved landscape for all time. The Sierra Club Exhibit Format Series galvanized public opposition to building dams in the Grand Canyon and protected many other national treasures. The Sierra Club often led a coalition of many environmental groups including the Wilderness Society and many others. After a focus on preserving wilderness in the 1950s and 1960s, the Sierra Club and other groups broadened their focus to include such issues as air and water pollution, population concern, and curbing the exploitation of natural resources.\n\nIn 1962, \"Silent Spring\" by American biologist Rachel Carson was published. The book cataloged the environmental impacts of the indiscriminate spraying of DDT in the US and questioned the logic of releasing large amounts of chemicals into the environment without fully understanding their effects on human health and ecology. The book suggested that DDT and other pesticides may cause cancer and that their agricultural use was a threat to wildlife, particularly birds. The resulting public concern led to the creation of the United States Environmental Protection Agency in 1970 which subsequently banned the agricultural use of DDT in the US in 1972. The limited use of DDT in disease vector control continues to this day in certain parts of the world and remains controversial. The book's legacy was to produce a far greater awareness of environmental issues and interest into how people affect the environment. With this new interest in environment came interest in problems such as air pollution and petroleum spills, and environmental interest grew. New pressure groups formed, notably Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth (US), as well as notable local organizations such as the Wyoming Outdoor Council, which was founded in 1967.\n\nIn the 1970s, the environmental movement gained rapid speed around the world as a productive outgrowth of the counterculture movement.\n\nThe world's first political parties to campaign on a predominantly environmental platform were the United Tasmania Group Tasmania, Australia and the Values Party of New Zealand. The first green party in Europe was the Popular Movement for the Environment, founded in 1972 in the Swiss canton of Neuchâtel. The first national green party in Europe was PEOPLE, founded in Britain in February 1973, which eventually turned into the Ecology Party, and then the Green Party.\n\nProtection of the environment also became important in the developing world; the Chipko movement was formed in India under the influence of Mohandas Gandhi and they set up peaceful resistance to deforestation by literally hugging trees (leading to the term \"tree huggers\"). Their peaceful methods of protest and slogan \"ecology is permanent economy\" were very influential.\n\nAnother milestone in the movement was the creation of Earth Day. Earth Day was first observed in San Francisco and other cities on March 21, 1970, the first day of spring. It was created to give awareness to environmental issues. On March 21, 1971, United Nations Secretary-General U Thant spoke of a spaceship Earth on Earth Day, hereby referring to the ecosystem services the earth supplies to us, and hence our obligation to protect it (and with it, ourselves). Earth Day is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network, and is celebrated in more than 175 countries every year.\n\nThe UN's first major conference on international environmental issues, the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment (also known as the Stockholm Conference), was held on June 5–16, 1972. It marked a turning point in the development of international environmental politics.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, many felt that people were on the edge of environmental catastrophe. The Back-to-the-land movement started to form and ideas of environmental ethics joined with anti-Vietnam War sentiments and other political issues. These individuals lived outside normal society and started to take on some of the more radical environmental theories such as deep ecology. Around this time more mainstream environmentalism was starting to show force with the signing of the Endangered Species Act in 1973 and the formation of CITES in 1975. Significant amendments were also enacted to the United States Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act.\n\nIn 1979, James Lovelock, a British scientist, published \"Gaia: A new look at life on Earth\", which put forth the Gaia hypothesis; it proposes that life on earth can be understood as a single organism. This became an important part of the Deep Green ideology. Throughout the rest of the history of environmentalism there has been debate and argument between more radical followers of this Deep Green ideology and more mainstream environmentalists.\n\nEnvironmentalism continues to evolve to face up to new issues such as global warming, overpopulation and genetic engineering.\n\nResearch demonstrates a precipitous decline in the US public's interest in 19 different areas of environmental concern. Americans are less likely be actively participating in an environmental movement or organization and more likely to identify as \"unsympathetic\" to an environmental movement than in 2000. This is likely a lingering factor of the Great Recession in 2008. Since 2005, the percentage of Americans agreeing that the environment should be given priority over economic growth has dropped 10 points, in contrast, those feeling that growth should be given priority \"even if the environment suffers to some extent\" has risen 12 percent. These numbers point to the growing complexity of environmentalism and its relationship to economics.\n\nTree sitting is a form of activism in which the protester sits in a tree in an attempt to stop the removal of a tree or to impede the demolition of an area with the longest and most famous tree-sitter being Julia Butterfly Hill, who spent 738 days in a California Redwood, saving a three-acre tract of forest.\n\nSit-in is a form of activism where one or any number of people occupy a place as a form of protest. The tactic can be used to encourage social change, such as the Greensboro sit-ins, a series of protests in 1960 to stop racial segregation, but can also be used in ecoactivism, as in the Dakota Access Pipeline Protest.\n\nBefore the Syrian Civil War, Rojava had been ecologically damaged by monoculture, oil extraction, damming of rivers, deforestation, drought, topsoil loss and general pollution. The DFNS launched a campaign titled 'Make Rojava Green Again' (a parody of Make America Great Again) which is attempting to provide renewable energy to communities (especially solar energy), reforestation, protecting water sources, planting gardens, promoting urban agriculture, creating wildlife reserves, water recycling, beekeeping, expanding public transportation and promoting environmental awareness within their communities.\n\nThe Rebel Zapatista Autonomous Municipalities are firmly environmentalist and have stopped the extraction of oil, uranium, timber and metal from the Lacandon Jungle and stopped the use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers in farming.\n\nThe CIPO-RFM has engaged in sabotage and direct action against wind farms, shrimp farms, eucalyptus plantations and the timber industry. They have also set up corn and coffee worker cooperatives and built schools and hospitals to help the local populations. They have also created a network of autonomous community radio stations to educate people about dangers to the environment and inform the surrounding communities about new industrial projects that would destroy more land. In 2001, the CIPO-RFM defeated the construction of a highway that was part of Plan Puebla Panama.\n\nThe \"environmental movement\" (a term that sometimes includes the conservation and green movements) is a diverse scientific, social, and political movement. Though the movement is represented by a range of organizations, because of the inclusion of environmentalism in the classroom curriculum, the environmental movement has a younger demographic than is common in other social movements (see green seniors).\n\nEnvironmentalism as a movement covers broad areas of institutional oppression, including for example: consumption of ecosystems and natural resources into waste, dumping waste into disadvantaged communities, air pollution, water pollution, weak infrastructure, exposure of organic life to toxins, mono-culture, anti-polythene drive (jhola movement) and various other focuses. Because of these divisions, the environmental movement can be categorized into these primary focuses: environmental science, environmental activism, environmental advocacy, and environmental justice.\n\nFree market environmentalism is a theory that argues that the free market, property rights, and tort law provide the best tools to preserve the health and sustainability of the environment. It considers environmental stewardship to be natural, as well as the expulsion of polluters and other aggressors through individual and class action.\n\nEvangelical environmentalism is an environmental movement in the United States of America in which some Evangelicals have emphasized biblical mandates concerning humanity's role as steward and subsequent responsibility for the caretaking of Creation. While the movement has focused on different environmental issues, it is best known for its focus of addressing climate action from a biblically grounded theological perspective. This movement is controversial among some non-Christian environmentalists due to its rooting in a specific religion.\n\nEnvironmental preservation in the United States and other parts of the world, including Australia, is viewed as the setting aside of natural resources to prevent damage caused by contact with humans or by certain human activities, such as logging, mining, hunting, and fishing, often to replace them with new human activities such as tourism and recreation. Regulations and laws may be enacted for the preservation of natural resources.\n\nEnvironmental organizations can be global, regional, national or local; they can be government-run or private (NGO). Environmentalist activity exists in almost every country. Moreover, groups dedicated to community development and social justice also focus on environmental concerns.\n\nSome US environmental organizations, among them the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Environmental Defense Fund, specialize in bringing lawsuits (a tactic seen as particularly useful in that country). Other groups, such as the US-based National Wildlife Federation, the Nature Conservancy, and The Wilderness Society, and global groups like the World Wide Fund for Nature and Friends of the Earth, disseminate information, participate in public hearings, lobby, stage demonstrations, and may purchase land for preservation. Statewide nonprofit organizations such as the Wyoming Outdoor Council often collaborate with these national organizations and employ similar strategies. Smaller groups, including Wildlife Conservation International, conduct research on endangered species and ecosystems. More radical organizations, such as Greenpeace, Earth First!, and the Earth Liberation Front, have more directly opposed actions they regard as environmentally harmful. While Greenpeace is devoted to nonviolent confrontation as a means of bearing witness to environmental wrongs and bringing issues into the public realm for debate, the underground \"Earth Liberation Front\" engages in the clandestine destruction of property, the release of caged or penned animals, and other criminal acts. Such tactics are regarded as unusual within the movement, however.\n\nOn an international level, concern for the environment was the subject of a United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in Stockholm in 1972, attended by 114 nations. Out of this meeting developed UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme) and the follow-up United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in 1992. Other international organizations in support of environmental policies development include the Commission for Environmental Cooperation (as part of NAFTA), the European Environment Agency (EEA), and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).\n\nNotable environmental protests and campaigns include:\nNotable advocates for environmental protection and sustainability include:\n\nEvery year, more than 100 environmental activists are murdered throughout the world. Most recent deaths are in Brazil, where activists combat logging in the Amazon rainforest.\n\n116 environmental activists were assassinated in 2014, and 185 in 2015. (This represents more than two environmentalists assassinated every week in 2014 and three every week in 2015.) More than 200 environmental activists were assassinated worldwide between 2016 and early 2018.\n\n\nMany environmentalists believe that human interference with 'nature' should be restricted or minimised as a matter of urgency (for the sake of life, or the planet, or just for the benefit of the human species), whereas environmental skeptics and anti-environmentalists do not believe that there is such a need. One can also regard oneself as an environmentalist and believe that human 'interference' with 'nature' should be \"increased\". Nevertheless, there is a risk that the shift from emotional environmentalism into the technical management of natural resources and hazards could decrease the touch of humans with nature, leading to less concern with environment preservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36944059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36944059", "title": "Ernesto Tornquist Provincial Park", "text": "Ernesto Tornquist Provincial Park\n\nErnesto Tornquist Provincial Park () is a provincial protected area in the south of Buenos Aires Province, mid-eastern Argentina. Established on 23 April 1958, it covers a small area of the Ventania System.\n\n"}
{"id": "185684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185684", "title": "Galleon", "text": "Galleon\n\nGalleons were large, multi-decked sailing ships first used by the Spanish as armed cargo carriers and later adopted by other European states from the 16th to 18th centuries during the age of sail and were the principal fleet units drafted for use as warships until the Anglo-Dutch Wars of the mid-1600s. Galleons generally carried three or more masts with a lateen fore-and-aft rig on the rear masts, were carvel built with a prominent squared off raised stern, and used square-rigged sail plans on their fore-mast and main-masts.\n\nSuch ships were the mainstay of maritime commerce into the early 19th century, and were often drafted into use as auxiliary naval war vessels—indeed, were the mainstay of contending fleets through most of the 150 years of the Age of Exploration—before the Anglo-Dutch wars brought purpose-built ship-rigged warships that thereafter dominated war at sea during the remainder of the age of sail.\n\nThe term \"galleon\", \"large ship\", comes from Spanish (Castilian) \"galeón\", \"armed merchant ship\", from Old French \"galion\", \"little ship\" (13c.), from Portuguese \"galeão\", \"war ship\", from Byzantine Greek \"galea\", \"galley\" + augmentative suffix \"-on\". Another possible origin is the Old French word \"galie\", meaning \"galley;\" also from Byzantine Greek \"galea.\" The \"galea\" was a warship of the Byzantine navy, and its name may be related to the Greek word \"galeos\", \"dogfish shark\". The term was originally given to certain types of war galleys in the Middle Ages. The \"Annali Genovesi\" mentions galleons of 80, 64 and 60 oars, used for battle and on missions of exploration, in the 12th and 13th centuries. It is very likely that the \"galleons\" and \"galliots\" mentioned in the accounts of the crusades were the same vessels. In the early 16th century, the Venetian \"galleoni\" was a new class of galley used to hunt down pirates in the Mediterranean.\n\nLater, when the term started to be applied to sail-only vessels, it meant, like the English term \"man of war\", any large warship that was otherwise no different from the other sailing ships of the time.\n\nIn the middle of the 16th century, a lowering of the carrack's forecastle and elongation of the hull gave the ocean-going galleons an unprecedented level of stability in the water, and reduced wind resistance at the front, leading to a faster, more maneuverable vessel. The galleon differed from the older types primarily by being longer, lower and narrower, with a square tuck stern instead of a round tuck, and by having a snout or head projecting forward from the bows below the level of the forecastle. In Portugal at least, Portuguese carracks were usually very large ships for their time (often over 1,000 tons), while galleons were mostly under 500 tons, although the Manila galleons were to reach up to 2,000 tons. With the introduction of the galleon in Portuguese India Armadas during the first quarter of the 16th century, carracks gradually began to be less armed and became almost exclusively cargo ships (which is why the Portuguese Carracks were pushed to such large sizes), leaving any fighting to be done to the galleons. One of the largest and most famous of Portuguese galleons was the \"São João Baptista\" (nicknamed Botafogo, \"spitfire\"), a 1,000-ton galleon built in 1534, said to have carried 366 guns.\n\nCarracks also tended to be lightly armed and used for transporting cargo in all the fleets of other Western European states, while galleons were purpose-built warships, and were stronger, more heavily armed, and also cheaper to build (five galleons could cost around the same as three carracks) and were therefore a much better investment for use as warships or transports. There are disputes about its origins and development but each Atlantic sea power built types suited to its needs, while constantly learning from their rivals. It was the captains of the Spanish navy, Pedro Menéndez de Avilés and Álvaro de Bazán, who designed the definitive long and relatively narrow hulled galleon for Spain in the 1550s. \n\nThe galleon was powered entirely by wind, using sails carried on three or four masts, with a lateen sail continuing to be used on the last (usually third and fourth) masts. They were used in both military and trade applications, most famously in the Spanish treasure fleet, and the Manila Galleons. While carracks played the leading role in early global explorations, galleons also played a part in the 16th and 17th centuries. In fact, galleons were so versatile that a single vessel may have been refitted for wartime and peacetime roles several times during its lifespan. The galleon was the prototype of all square-rigged ships with three or more masts for over two and a half centuries, including the later full-rigged ship.\n\nThe principal warships of the opposing English and Spanish fleets in the 1588 confrontation of the Spanish Armada were galleons, with the modified English \"race-built\" galleons developed by John Hawkins proving decisive, while the capacious Spanish galleons, designed primarily as transports, showed great endurance in the battles and in the great storms on the voyage home; most survived the ordeal.\n\nGalleons were constructed from oak (for the keel), pine (for the masts) and various hardwoods for hull and decking. Hulls were usually carvel-built. The expenses involved in galleon construction were enormous. Hundreds of expert tradesmen (including carpenters, pitch-melters, blacksmiths, coopers, shipwrights, etc.) worked day and night for months before a galleon was seaworthy. To cover the expense, galleons were often funded by groups of wealthy businessmen who pooled resources for a new ship. Therefore, most galleons were originally consigned for trade, although those captured by rival states were usually put into military service.\n\nThe most common gun used aboard a galleon was the demi-culverin, although gun sizes up to demi-cannon were possible.\n\nBecause of the long periods often spent at sea and poor conditions on board, many of the crew often perished during the voyage; therefore advanced rigging systems were developed so that the vessel could be sailed home by an active sailing crew a fraction of the size aboard at departure.\n\nGalleons were a class of blue water sailing ship that combined the easy-to-maneuver fore-and-aft rig of smaller shipping (boats) with the square rig of late middle ages cargo vessels. The galleons solidified the place of the square-rig and the centrally situated tallest main-masts and the slightly shorter fore-masts of a square-rigged ship characteristic of the 16th-19th centuries, but introduced the use of the lateen rig to sail closer to the wind on a tack than could a square-rigged vessel—an important attribute in restricted waters, but more so over long voyages where holding a few compass points closer to the wind might save hundreds of miles and days or weeks of sailing 'beating into the wind'.\nThe most distinguishing features of the galleon include the long prominent beak or beakhead followed by a fore-mast and main-mast, both noticeably taller than the single or double lateen-rigged mizzenmasts with their sloped lateen-rig yards, and below those the square quarter gallery at the stern. On average with three masts, in larger galleons, a fourth mast was added, usually another lateen-rigged mizzen, called the bonaventure mizzen.\n\nThe galleon continued to be used into the 18th century, by which time purpose-built vessels such as the fluyt, the brig and the full rigged ship, both as a trading vessel and ship of the line, rendered it obsolete for trade and warfare respectively.\n\nThe oldest known scale drawings in England are in a manuscript called \"Fragments of Ancient Shipwrightry\" made in about 1586 by Mathew Baker, a master-shipwright. This manuscript, held at the Pepysian Library, Magdalene College, Cambridge, provides an authentic reference for the size and shape of typical English galleons built during this period. Based on these plans, the Science Museum, London has built a 1:48 scale model ship that is an exemplar of galleons of this era.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67542", "title": "Geography of Austria", "text": "Geography of Austria\n\nAustria is a small, predominantly mountainous country in Central Europe, approximately between Germany, Italy and Hungary. It has a total area of 83,879 km² (32,385 mi²), about twice the size of Switzerland.\n\nThe landlocked country shares national borders with Switzerland (a non-European Union member state, which it borders for 158 km, or 98 mi) and the principality of Liechtenstein (also a non-EU member state, of which it borders for 34 km or 21 mi) to the west, Germany (801 km or 497 mi) and the Czech Republic (402 km or 249 mi) and Slovakia (105 km or 65 mi) to the north, Hungary to the east (331 km or 205 mi), and Slovenia (299 km or 185 mi) and Italy (404 km or 251 mi) to the south (total: 2,534 km or 1,574 mi).\n\nThe westernmost third of the somewhat pear-shaped country consists of a narrow corridor between Germany and Italy that is between 32 km (19 mi) and 60 km (37 mi) wide. The rest of Austria lies to the east and has a maximum north–south width of 280 km (173 mi). The country measures almost 600 km (372 mi) in length, extending from Lake Constance (German \"Bodensee\") on the Austrian-Swiss-German border in the west to the Neusiedler See on the Austrian-Hungarian border in the east. The contrast between these two lakes – one in the Alps and the other a typical steppe lake on the westernmost fringe of the Hungarian Plain – illustrates the diversity of Austria's landscape.\n\nSeven of Austria's nine provinces have long historical traditions predating the establishment of the Republic of Austria in 1918: Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Styria, Carinthia, Salzburg, Tyrol, and Vorarlberg. The provinces of Burgenland and Vienna were established after World War I. Most of Burgenland had been part of the Kingdom of Hungary, but it had a predominantly German-speaking population and hence became Austrian. Administrative and ideological reasons played a role in the establishment of Vienna as an independent province. Vienna, historically the capital of Lower Austria, was a socialist stronghold, whereas Lower Austria was conservative, and both socialists and conservatives wanted to consolidate their influence in their respective provinces. Each province has a provincial capital with the exception of Vienna, which is a province in its own right in addition to being the federal capital. In Vienna, the City Council and the mayor function as a provincial parliament and provincial governor, respectively.\n\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nAustria may be divided into three unequal geographical areas. The largest part of Austria (62%) is occupied by the relatively young mountains of the Alps, but in the east, these give way to a part of the Pannonian plain, and north of the Danube River lies the Bohemian Forest, an older, but lower, granite mountain range.\n\nThe Danube has its source near Donaueschingen in southwestern Germany and flows through Austria before emptying into the Black Sea. It is the only major European river that flows eastwards, and its importance as an inland waterway has been enhanced by the completion in 1992 of the Rhine-Main-Danube Canal in Bavaria, which connects the Rhine and Main rivers with the Danube and makes barge traffic from the North Sea to the Black Sea possible.\n\nThe major rivers north of the watershed of the Austrian Alps (the Inn in Tyrol, the Salzach in Salzburg, and the Enns in Styria and Upper Austria) are direct tributaries of the Danube and flow north into the Danube valley, whereas the rivers south of the watershed in central and eastern Austria (the Gail and Drau rivers in Carinthia and the Mürz and Mur rivers in Styria) flow south into the drainage system of the Drau, which eventually empties into the Danube in Serbia. Consequently, central and eastern Austria are geographically oriented away from the watershed of the Alps: the provinces of Upper Austria and Lower Austria toward the Danube and the provinces of Carinthia and Styria toward the Drau.\n\nThree major ranges of the Alps – the Northern Calcareous Alps, Central Alps, and Southern Calcareous Alps – run west to east through Austria. The Central Alps, which consist largely of a granite base, are the largest and highest ranges in Austria. The Central Alps run from Tyrol to approximately the Styria-Lower Austria border and include areas that are permanently glaciated in the Ötztal Alps on the Tyrolean–Italian border and the High Tauern in East Tyrol and Carinthia. The Northern Calcareous Alps, which run from Vorarlberg through Tyrol into Salzburg along the German border and through Upper Austria and Lower Austria toward Vienna, and the Southern Calcareous Alps, on the Carinthia-Slovenia border, are predominantly limestone and dolomite. At 3,797 m, Großglockner is the highest mountain in Austria. As a general rule, the farther east the Northern and Central Alps run, the lower they become. The altitude of the mountains also drops north and south of the central ranges.\n\nAs a geographic feature, the Alps literally overshadow other landform regions. Just over 28% of Austria is moderately hilly or flat: the Northern Alpine Foreland, which includes the Danube Valley; the lowlands and hilly regions in northeastern and eastern Austria, which include the Danube Basin; and the rolling hills and lowlands of the Southeastern Alpine Foreland. The parts of Austria that are most suitable for settlement – that is, arable and climatically favorable – run north of the Alps through the provinces of Upper Austria and Lower Austria in the Danube Valley and then curve east and south of the Alps through Lower Austria, Vienna, Burgenland, and Styria. Austria's least mountainous landscape is southeast of the low Leithagebirge, which forms the southern lip of the Viennese Basin, where the steppe of the Hungarian Plain begins.\n\nThe granite massif of the Bohemian Forest (known in German as the \"Böhmerwald\"), a low mountain range with bare and windswept plateaus and a harsh climate, is located north of the Danube Valley and covers the remaining 10% of Austria's area. Notable is the Manhartsberg a granite ridge which separates Waldviertel from Weinviertel.\n\nThe 35 highest mountains in Austria:\n\nLand-use patterns in Austria change from Alpine to non-Alpine regions. Approximately one-tenth of Austria is barren or unproductive, that is, extremely Alpine or above the tree line. Just over 40% of Austria is covered by forests, the majority of which is in Alpine regions. Less than one-fifth of Austria is arable and suitable for conventional agriculture. The percentage of arable land in Austria increases in the East as the country becomes less alpine. More than one-fifth of Austria is pasture and meadow located at varying altitudes. Almost half of this grassland consists of high Alpine pastures.\n\nHistorically, high Alpine pastures have been used during the summer for grazing dairy cattle, thus making space available at lower altitudes for cultivating and harvesting fodder for winter. Many of the high pastures are at altitudes of more than 1,000 m.\n\nAlthough agriculture in mountainous areas was at one time economically viable, in recent decades it has survived only with the help of extensive subsidies. A concern of farmers in these mountainous regions is that membership of the European Union might entail a curtailment of these subsidies and the end of Alpine agriculture. If this occurs, many areas will be reclaimed by nature after centuries of cultivation.\n\nAlthough the Alps are beautiful, they make many areas of Austria uninhabitable. Austria's so-called areas of permanent settlement – regions that are cultivated, continuously inhabited, and used for transportation, but do not include forests, Alpine pastures, or barren land – cover only 40% or 35,000 km² of the country. The great majority of the area of permanent settlement is in the Danube valley and the lowlands or hilly regions north, east, and south of the Alps, where approximately two-thirds of the population lives.\n\nIn the country's predominantly Alpine provinces, most of the population live in river valleys: Bregenz on the shores of Lake Constance in Vorarlberg; Innsbruck on the Inn River in Tyrol; Salzburg on the Salzach River in Salzburg; and Klagenfurt on the Wörthersee lake in Carinthia. The higher the Alps are, the less inhabitable they become in terms of soil, microclimate, and vegetation. Conversely, the lower and broader the Alpine valleys are, the more densely populated they become.\n\nTyrol illustrates most clearly the relationship between Alpine geography and habitation. As the most mountainous province (less than 3% of the land is arable), it is the most sparsely inhabited, with an area of permanent settlement of only 15%.\n\nBecause of the Alps, the country as a whole is one of the least densely populated states of Western and Central Europe. With ninety-three inhabitants per square kilometre, Austria has a population density similar to that of the former Yugoslavia.\n\nAustria's national borders and geography have corresponded very little. Since the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the Alps and the Danube have not served to mark political boundaries. Even within Austria, provincial borders were only occasionally set by the ranges and ridges of the Alps.\n\nAlthough the Alps did not mark political boundaries, they often separated groups of people from one another. Because in the past the Alps were impassable, inhabitants isolated in valleys or networks of valleys developed distinct regional subcultures. Consequently, the inhabitants of one valley frequently maintained dialects, native or traditional dress, architectural styles, and folklore that substantially differed from those of the next valley. Differences were great enough that the origins of outsiders could easily be identified. However, mass media, mobility, prosperity, and tourism have eroded the distinctness of Alpine regional subcultures to a great extent by reducing the isolation that gave them their particular character.\n\nDespite the Alps, Austria has historically been a land of transit. The Danube valley, for centuries Central Europe's aquatic link to the Balkan Peninsula and the \"Orient\" in the broadest sense of the word, has always been an avenue of east–west transit. However, Europe's division into two opposing economic and military blocs after World War II diminished Austria's importance as a place of transit. Since the opening of Eastern Europe in 1989, the country has begun to re-assume its historical role. By the early 1990s, it had already experienced a substantial increase in the number of people and vehicles crossing its eastern frontiers.\n\nWithin the Alps, four passes and the roads that run through them are of particular importance for north–south transit. The Semmering Pass on the provincial border of Lower Austria and Styria connects the Viennese Basin with the Mürz and Mur valleys, thus providing northeast-southwest access to Styria and Slovenia, and, via Carinthia, to Italy.\n\nThe Pyrhn Pass between the provinces of Upper Austria and Styria and the Tauern Pass between the High Tauern range and the Lower Tauern range of the Central Alps in Salzburg, provide access to the Mur Valley in Styria and the Drau Valley in Carinthia, respectively. The highways that run through these passes are important northwest-southeast lines of communication through the Alps. The Pyrhn highway has been nicknamed the \"Fremdarbeiterweg\" (\"foreign workers' route\") because millions of \"Gastarbeiter\" (\"guest workers\") in Germany use it to return to their homes in the Balkans and Turkey for vacation. Many Germans and northern Europeans also use it in the summer months to reach the Adriatic coast. After the outbreak of hostilities in Yugoslavia in the summer of 1991, however, a substantial amount of this traffic was re-routed through the Danube Valley and Hungary.\n\nThe most important pass in the Austrian Alps is the Brenner Pass, located on the Austrian-Italian border in Tyrol. At 1,370 m, it is one of the lowest Alpine passes. The route up the Inn valley and over the Brenner Pass has been historically an important and convenient route of north–south transit between Germany and Italy, and provides the most direct route between Europe's two most highly industrialized regions: Germany and northern Italy.\n\nNatural resources:\noil, lignite, timber, iron ore, copper, zinc, antimony, magnesite, tungsten, graphite, salt, hydropower\n\nLand use:\n<br>\"arable land:\"\n16.44%\n<br>\"permanent crops:\"\n0.79%\n<br>\"other:\"\n82.77% (2012)\n\nIrrigated land:\n1,170 km² (2007)\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n77.7 km (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural)\n<br>\"total:\"\n3.66 km/yr (18%/79%/3%)\n<br>\"per capital:\"\n452.4 m/yr (2008)\n\nThe Alps serve as a watershed for Europe's three major kinds of weather systems that influence Austrian weather. The Atlantic maritime climate from the northwest is characterized by low-pressure fronts, mild air from the Gulf Stream, and precipitation. It has the greatest influence on the northern slopes of the Alps, the Northern Alpine Foreland, and the Danube valley. The continental climate is characterized by low pressure fronts with precipitation in summer and high pressure systems with cold and dry air in winter. It affects mainly eastern Austria. Mediterranean high-pressure systems from the south are characterized by few clouds and warm air, and they influence the weather of the southern slopes of the Alps and that of the Southeastern Alpine Foreland, making them the most temperate part of Austria.\n\nOne peculiarity of the Mediterranean weather systems is the föhn wind, a warm air mass that originates in the African Sahara and moves north rapidly, periodically raising temperatures up to in a short period of time. Many people respond to this rapid weather change with headaches, irritability, and circulatory problems. During the winter, the rapid warming that accompanies a föhn can thaw the snow cover in the Alps to such an extent that avalanches occur.\n\nGiven the importance of Alpine skiing for the Austrian tourist industry, December is the month during which the weather is watched with the greatest anticipation. As a rule, Atlantic maritime weather systems bring snow, and continental weather systems help keep it. However, a predominance of cold, dry continental systems or warm Mediterranean ones inevitably postpone the beginning of the ski season. In the summer, Mediterranean high-pressure systems bring warm, sunny weather.\n\nAustrians faced a number of ecological problems in the 1990s. One of the most pressing is the pollution caused by the staggering increase of traffic through the country. Traffic on the superhighway going through the Brenner Pass has, for example, increased from 600,000 vehicles per year in the early 1970s to over 10 million per year in the early 1990s. One quarter of the traffic crossing Austria consists of semitrailers used for heavy transport. The opening of Eastern Europe has only exacerbated the problem of transit traffic.\n\nThe Alpine valleys through which much of this traffic passes are unusually vulnerable to ecological damage. Narrow valleys are not conducive to dissipation of noise or pollutants caused by motor vehicles. Inversions – cold layers of air that trap warm layers of air or warm layers of air that trap cold layers in the valleys and lowlands – also seasonally contribute to the magnitude of the pollution problem.\n\nAustria has negotiated with the EU to set limits on the amount of commercial transit traffic, especially through Tyrol. Work is also under way to develop a \"piggy-back\" system of loading semitrailers on to flatbed railroad cars in southern Germany and northern Italy, transporting them through Tyrol by rail. Environmentalists have pushed for measures that are more far-reaching. They advocate, for example, digging a tunnel from Garmisch-Partenkirchen in southern Germany to Bolzano in northern Italy.\n\nPollution is also brought by the weather systems that determine the country's climate. Atlantic maritime weather systems carry pollution into Austria from northwestern Europe. Austria's proximity to industrialized regions of former Communist states, with negligible or no pollution control policies or equipment, combined with the influence of continental weather systems also have proved to be extremely harmful. Mediterranean weather systems transmit industrial pollutants from northern Italy.\n\nAs a result of domestic and foreign pollution, 37% of Austria's forests had been damaged by acid rain and/or pollutant emissions by 1991. The damage to forests has had dire consequences, including the decimation of forests that for centuries had protected many Alpine communities from avalanches, erosion, mudslides, or flooding caused by runoff.\n\nThe seriousness of the ecological problems confronting the country gave rise in the 1970s to an environmentalist movement. Political parties were formed, and representatives were elected to parliament. A referendum in 1978 closed down a newly completed nuclear power station and turned the country away from the exploitation of nuclear energy. Public opposition in 1984 stopped the planned construction of a hydroelectric power station in a wetlands region.\n\nThe country's long-standing commercial use of the Alps for recreational purposes has also come under examination. Extensive tourism places an inordinate amount of pressure on sensitive Alpine ecosystems. Ski runs damage forests, as do summer sports such as off-trail mountain hiking or mountain biking. Many Alpine villages have also grown greatly because of the tourist industry. In extreme cases, they have up to twenty hotel beds for each inhabitant, a ratio that places a disproportionate seasonal burden on communal infrastructures and the environment. For these reasons, efforts have been made to introduce \"green\" or \"soft\" forms of tourism that are more compatible with the Alpine environment.\n\nPart of the solution to Austria's ecological problems is being sought in stricter environmental legislation at the domestic level. Ultimately, however, pan-European and global cooperation in the realm of pollution and emission control will be necessary to protect the country's environment.\n\nEnvironment - current issues:\nsome forest degradation caused by air and soil pollution; soil pollution results from the use of agricultural chemicals; air pollution results from emissions by coal- and oil-fired power stations and industrial plants and from trucks transiting Austria between northern and southern Europe\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:\n<br>\"party to:\"\nAir Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling\n<br>\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nAir Pollution-Persistent Organic Pollutants, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57010", "title": "Geography of Seychelles", "text": "Geography of Seychelles\n\nThe Seychelles is a small island nation located in the Indian Ocean northeast of Madagascar and about east of Kenya. Seychelles lies between approximately 4ºS and 10ºS and 46ºE and 54ºE. The nation is an archipelago of 115 tropical islands, some granite and some coral. the majority of which are small and uninhabited. The landmass is only 459 km, but the islands are spread over an Exclusive Economic Zone of 1,374,000 km. About 90 percent of the population of 90,000 live on Mahé, 9 percent on Praslin and La Digue. Around a third of the land area is the island of Mahé and a further third the atoll of Aldabra.\n\nThere are two distinct regions, the granitic islands, the world's only oceanic islands of granitic rock and the coralline outer islands. The granite islands are the world’s oldest ocean islands, while the outer islands are mainly very young, though the Aldabra group and St Pierre (Farquhar Group) are unusual, raised coral islands that have emerged and submerged several times during their long history, the most recent submergence dating from about 125,000 years ago\n\nThe Inner Islands is the collective term for 45 islands with a total area of 247.2 km, 54% of the Seychelles area but with more than 99% of the population.\n\nThe Granitic Group consists of 45 granite islands, all within a radius of the main island of Mahé. These islands are rocky, and most have a narrow coastal strip and a central range of hills rising as high as . The most important islands of this group are:\nTwo coralline islands, at 90 km to the north, make up the remainder of the Inner Islands:\n\nThere are also a number of artificial islands, including Romainville Island. \n\nMillions of years ago, the archipelago was created by a combination of the separation of India from Africa as well as undersea volcanoes similar to those from which Mauritius and Réunion were created. Subsequently the vast majority of this huge land area became submerged over time. Seychelles straddles the eastern portion of the Somali plate.\n\nThe Outer Islands consist of five groups of coralline islands:\nThe Outer Islands comprise 211.3 km (46% of the Seychelles), but less than 1% of the population.\n\nThe coral islands are flat with elevated coral reefs at different stages of formation. They have no fresh water and can sustain human life only with difficulty.\n\nThe Seychelles is part of the granitic Mascarene Plateau which broke off from the Indian Plate about 66 mya. This rift formation is associated with the Réunion hotspot which is also responsible for Réunion Island and the Deccan Traps in India. Because of its long isolation, the Seychelles hosts several unique species including the coco de mer, a palm which has the largest seeds of any plant and the world's largest population of giant tortoises.\n\nThe climate is equable and healthy, although quite humid, as the islands are small and subject to marine influences. The temperature varies little throughout the year. Temperatures on Mahé vary from , and rainfall ranges from annually at Victoria to on the mountain slopes. Precipitation is somewhat less on the other islands. During the coolest months, July and August, it drops to as low as . The southeast trade winds blow regularly from May to November, and this is the most pleasant time of the year. The hot months are from December to April, with higher humidity (80%). March and April are the hottest months, but the temperature seldom exceeds . Most of the islands lie outside the cyclone belt, so high winds are rare.\n\nThe uniqueness of the Seychelles' ecology is reflected in the US$1.8 million project of the Global Environment Trust Fund of the World Bank (see Glossary) entitled Biodiversity Conservation and Marine Pollution Abatement, that began in 1993. The World Bank study for this project states that the islands contain, out of a total of 1,170 flowering plants, \"at least 75 species of flowering plants, 15 of birds, 3 of mammals, 30 of reptiles and amphibians, and several hundred species of snails, insects, spiders and other invertebrates\" found nowhere else. The diversity of species in the islands is being assessed by the Nature Protection Trust of Seychelles. In addition, the waters contain more than 1000 kinds of fish, of which more than one-third are associated with coral reefs. Specific examples of unique birds are the black paradise flycatcher, the black parrot, the brush warbler, and a flightless rail. Most famous of all the Seychelles animals are the giant tortoises of the genus \"Aldabrachelys\".\n\nAs a result of extensive shipping to Seychelles that brings needed imports and the discharge of commercial tuna fishing, the waters suffer some pollution. Furthermore, goats brought to Aldabra Islands are destroying much of the vegetation on which giant tortoises feed or seek shade. Rats have reduced biodiversity on many islands. Climate change is also a significant issue; it was recently realised that this has caused the extinction of the endemic snail Rhachistia aldabrae.\n\nSeychelles began addressing the conservation problem in the late 1960s by creating the Nature Conservancy Commission, later renamed the Seychelles National Environment Commission. A system of national parks and animal preserves covering 42% of the land area and about 260 km of the surrounding water areas has been set aside. Legislation protects wildlife and bans various destructive practices. In Seychelles' 1990 to 1994 National Development Plan, an effort was made to include in the appropriate economic sectors of the development plan environment and natural resources management aspects.\n\nAlso connected with ecology is a World Bank project dealing with the environment and transportation. Launched in 1993 with a loan of US$4.5 million, it is designed to improve the infrastructure of Seychelles with regard to roads and airports or airstrips so as to encourage tourism as a source of income, while simultaneously supporting environmental programs in resource management, conservation, and the elimination of pollution.\n\nAnother major project has been funded by Fonds Francais pour l'environnement Mondiale (FFEM) and implemented by Island Conservation Society. This aims to rehabilitate and enhance islands for the maintenance of native biodiversity in Seychelles through eradication of introduced predator species, rehabilitation of habitats and reintroduction of rare or threatened species. Rats have been eliminated from North Island under this project and more schemes are planned, including at Cosmoledo Atoll and on Conception Island.\n\nGeographic coordinates: \n\nArea:\n\"total:\"\n459 km\n\"land:\"\n459 km\n\"water:\"\n0 km\n\nLand boundaries:\n0 km\n\nCoastline:\n491 km\n\nMaritime claims:\n\"continental shelf:\"\n\"exclusive economic zone:\"\n\n\"territorial sea:\"\nElevation extremes:\n\"lowest point:\"\nIndian Ocean 0 m\n\"highest point:\"\nMorne Seychellois 905 m\n\nNatural resources:\nfish, copra, cinnamon trees\n\nLand use:\n\"arable land:\"\n2%\n\"permanent crops:\"\n13%\n\"permanent pastures:\"\n0%\n\"forests and woodland:\"\n11%\n\"other:\"\n74% (1993 est.)\n\nIrrigated land:\n0 km\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:\n\"party to:\"\nBiodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Whaling\n\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nClimate Change-Kyoto Protocol\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Seychelles, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14684531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14684531", "title": "Graphometer", "text": "Graphometer\n\nThe graphometer, semicircle or semicircumferentor is a surveying instrument used for angle measurements. It consists of a semicircular limb divided into 180 degrees and sometimes subdivided into minutes. The limb is subtended by the diameter with two sights at its ends. In the middle of the diameter a \"box and needle\" (compass) is fixed. On the same middle the alidade with two other sights is fitted. The device is mounted on a staff via a ball and socket joint. In effect the device is a half-circumferentor. For convenience, sometimes another half-circle from 180 to 360 degrees may be graduated in another line on the limb.\n\nThe form was introduced in Philippe Danfrie's, \"Déclaration de l’usage du graphomètre\" (Paris, 1597) and the term \"graphometer\" was popular with French geodesists. The preferable English-language terms were semicircle or semicircumferentor. Some 19th-century graphometers had telescopic rather than open sights.\n\nTo measure an angle, say, EKG, place the diameter middle C at the angle apex K using the plummet at point C of the instrument. Align the diameter with leg KE of the angle using the sights at the ends of the diameter. Align the alidade with the leg KG using another pair of sights, and read the angle off the limb as marked by the alidade. Further uses of the graphometer are the same as those of the circumferentor.\n\n"}
{"id": "52880839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52880839", "title": "Günter Meyer", "text": "Günter Meyer\n\nGünter Meyer (born 25 August 1946) is a German Geographer and Orientalist. He is chairman of the World Congress for Middle Eastern Studies (WOCMES) and director of the Center for Research on the Arab World (CERAW) at the University of Mainz. Meyer focuses mainly on the Political Geography of the Arab World, and the economic as well as urban development in the Middle East, especially in Egypt, Syria, Yemen and the UAE, but also in Germany. He became known to a wider German-speaking audience through more than 1100 interviews on the Iraq War, the Syrian Civil War and on the Libyan Civil War 2011 and 2014.\n\nMeyer studied Geography and English Literature from 1968 to 1973 at the University of Erlangen-Nürnberg and the New University of Ulster in Northern Ireland. Back in Erlangen, he took his state exams for higher secondary education in 1973, completed his doctorate in Geography in 1976 and qualified as a university lecturer in 1983 with his post-doctoral thesis and other writings in social geographic studies on developments in rural and nomadic areas. He was appointed Professor in Erlangen. In 1993 he changed to the University of Mainz.\n\nSince the mid-1990s he started an intense networking activity organizing the cooperation of Institutes of Oriental studies and orientalists on a national, European and global level.\n\nHe headed the first World Congress on Studies of the Middle East in 2002 (WOCMES) in Mainz. The congress attracted about 2.100 scientists from 68 countries, and 126 journalists from all parts of the world.\n\nIn 2010 the executive board of WOCMES appointed Meyer again for president. In 2018 he was reelected unanimously for a fifth term of office, until 2022.\n\nIn 2014 he was awarded the Jere L. Bacharach Service Award by the Middle East Studies Association of North America (MESA).Meyer was the first European honoured with this award. The award certificate mentioned Meyer's tireless efforts to improve communication and interaction between previously separated, different areas of European scholarship: \"This award honors his vision and skill in establishing new institutional networks to the benefit of scholars around the world.\"\n\nAs the chairman of the World Congress of Middle Eastern Studies, Meyer was also in charge of the world congresses in Amman/Jordan, in Barcelona, and in Ankara in August 2014, and is in charge of the congress in Sevilla in 2018.\n\nAs early as 2012 Meyer attracted attention putting forward his view on the external roots of the conflicts within Syria. He saw a massive and abusive outside interference into inner-Syrian affairs. Western powers seemed to be mainly concerned with extinguishing the \"Iran-Hezbolla axis\". According to Meyer, thousands of mujaheddin had been flown in, because the CIA was intending to initiate a civil war to weaken Syria. The media were ignoring the fact, Meyer said, that the majority of the population was still preferring Assad as head of government.\n\nWith regard to the Civil War in Syria Meyer, from the very beginning expressed himself against all endeavors to remove president Bashar al-Assad from office. Before the Russian military intervention, he expressed a rather positive view on the Russian role in the conflict.\n\nMeyer has repeatedly blamed US foreign politics towards Iraq as a main reason for the emergence of Daesh: \"Without acting against International Law, without the wrong decision taken by Bremer, and without consciously accepting that a Salafi territory might emerge in Syria's eastern parts, with the CIA even considering giving support, it would have never been possible for ISIS to develop into a global threat.\"\nGiving his view on the consequences of a possible overthrow of president Assad, he referred to a widely known slogan in Syria: „Christians to the Lebanon, the Alawites to the grave\". According to Meyer, this slogan indicates the imminent dangers for the regions still controlled by the regime.\nIn February 2016 Meyer presented his view on plans to depose Assad as early as 2001. In 2006 news had been leaked, that the regime should be \"destabilized\" by instigating ethnic antagonism. The strategy of supplying weapons the so-called temperate rebel opposition via Libya and Turkey had faltered, because, according to Meyer, those rebels had allied themselves with extremist forces. Turkey was supporting IS willing to do everything possible to prevent the emergence of a Kurdish state. Deposing Assad would cause chaos in Syria, to the sole advantage of extremists. Meyer saw the politics of Russia towards Syria as constructive, he ruled out the possibility of Russia's intentionally intensifying immigration towards Europe. The target of the Russian government was getting back control of part of the country.\n\nIn a public debate in June 2016 Meyer expressed doubts about a smooth transition of power in case the Assad regime was dissolved. Two military groups, Al-Nusra and IS, could not have a share in power, also the remaining militias had a salafist or radically islamistic outlook, often hostile against each other, only united temporarily by their common enemity towards Assad.\n\n\n\nGünter Meyer is married and the father of two daughters, one of them the German cabaret artist Inka Meyer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24818555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24818555", "title": "Heihe–Tengchong Line", "text": "Heihe–Tengchong Line\n\nThe Heihe–Tengchong Line (), also called the Aihui-Tengchong Line (and internationally as the Hu line) is an imaginary line that divides the area of China into two roughly equal parts. It stretches from the city of Heihe to Tengchong, diagonally across China.\n\nChinese population geographer Hu Huanyong imagined the line in 1935 and called it a \"geo-demographic demarcation line\". As this line was proposed in 1935, the map of China would have included Mongolia but excluded Taiwan.\n\nThis imaginary line divides the territory of China as follows (going by 1935 statistics):\n\n\nDespite a large scale urban migration mainly towards coasts but also trending south, 2002 and 2015 statistics remain nearly identical \"vis-à-vis\" the line:\n\n\nThe minor change in total population percent from 1935 to 2015 is attributed to Han Chinese migration to urban areas in the autonomous regions of Tibet and Xinjiang, as well as one-child policy restrictions on the majority, with exceptions for largely-minority groups west of the line. However, during the 2000-2015 period, population in the west of the line indeed grew faster than the east, but the growth wasn't sufficient to budge the rounded percentages. Most of this growth was contained in the cities of Ürümqi, Lanzhou, Ordos, and Yinchuan, although some tribal non-city areas also registered high growth. After 80 years, the area west of the Heihe–Tengchong Line remains relatively rural, rugged or inhospitable, underdeveloped and poor as compared to the east.\n\n"}
{"id": "36247592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36247592", "title": "Hreppur", "text": "Hreppur\n\nA hreppur () is a rural municipality in Iceland. These administrative units are primarily made up of rural villages, with few or no towns, and are headed by the \"Hreppstjóri\".\n\nIt is one of the oldest Icelandic administrative units, probably dating back to before 1000 AD, when a hreppur had at least twenty freeholders, although smaller units could be established if the Lögrétta gave permission. The term (Old norse \"hreppr\") is mentioned in the Gray Goose Laws (Grágás) and the Law of Iceland (Jónsbók).\n\nThe \"hreppr\" was independent of the chieftain-Þing structure. It collected and distributed the tithes and mandatory contributions designated for the poor, which were assigned to various households for different lengths of time according to the wealth of the household. The \"hreppr\" also took charge of an insurance system. A member who lost morethan 1/4 of his herds due to disease was entitled to recover half of the loss.\n\nThe use of the term \"hreppur\" is in decline as urban communities merge into new municipalities.\n"}
{"id": "253123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253123", "title": "ISO 3166-2:AE", "text": "ISO 3166-2:AE\n\nISO 3166-2:AE is the entry for the United Arab Emirates in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for the United Arab Emirates, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 7 emirates.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of the United Arab Emirates. The second part is two letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998. ISO stopped issuing newsletters in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23464639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23464639", "title": "ISO 3166-2:KY", "text": "ISO 3166-2:KY\n\nISO 3166-2:KY is the entry for the Cayman Islands in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no second level ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for the Cayman Islands.\n\nThe Cayman Islands are officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code .\n\nThis two character string is most commonly associated with the Cayman Island's official internet domain name extension .ky\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60361", "title": "Illyria", "text": "Illyria\n\nIn classical antiquity, Illyria (; , \"Illyría\" or , \"Illyrís\"; , see also \"Illyricum)\" was a region in the western part of the Balkan Peninsula inhabited by the Illyrians. At least most of them spoke Illyrian languages, a group of Indo-European languages, which in ancient times perhaps had speakers in southern Italy.\n\nThe prehistory of Illyria and the Illyrians is known from archaeological evidence. The Romans conquered the region in 168 BC in the aftermath of the Illyrian Wars.\n\nThe Roman term Illyris (distinct from Illyria) was sometimes used to define an area north of the Aous valley, most notably Illyris proper.\n\nIn Greek mythology, the name of Illyria is aetiologically traced to Illyrius, the son of Cadmus and Harmonia, who eventually ruled Illyria and became the eponymous ancestor of the Illyrians. A later version of the myth identifies Polyphemus and Galatea as parents of Celtus, Galas, and Illyrius.\n\nAncient Greek writers used the name \"Illyrian\" to describe peoples between the Liburnians and Epirus. Fourth-century BC Greek writers clearly separated the people along the Adriatic coast from the Illyrians, and only in the 1st century AD was \"Illyrian\" used as a general term for all the peoples across the Adriatic. Writers also spoke of \"Illyrians in the strict sense of the word\"; Pomponius Mela (43 AD) the \"stricto sensu\" Illyrians lived north of the Taulantii and Enchele, on the Adriatic shore; Pliny the Elder used \"properly named Illyrians\" (\"Illyrii proprii/proprie dicti\") for a small people south of Epidaurum, or between Epidaurum (now Cavtat) and Lissus (now Lezhë). In the Roman period, \"Illyricum\" was used for the area between the Adriatic and Danube. \n\nThe earliest recorded Illyrian kingdom was that of the Enchele in the 8th century BC. The era in which we observe other Illyrian kingdoms begins approximately at 400 BC and ends at 167 BC. The Autariatae under Pleurias (337 BC) were considered to have been a kingdom. The Kingdom of the Ardiaei began at 230 BC and ended at 167 BC. The most notable Illyrian kingdoms and dynasties were those of Bardyllis of the Dardani and of Agron of the Ardiaei who created the last and best-known Illyrian kingdom. Agron ruled over the Ardiaei and had extended his rule to other tribes as well. As for the Dardanians, they always had separate domains from the rest of the Illyrians.\n\nThe Illyrian kingdoms were composed of small areas within the region of Illyria. Only the Romans ruled the entire region. The internal organization of the south Illyrian kingdoms points to imitation of their neighbouring Greek kingdoms and influence from the Greek and Hellenistic world in the growth of their urban centres. Polybius gives as an image of society within an Illyrian kingdom as peasant infantry fought under aristocrats which he calls in Greek \"Polydynastae\" (Greek: Πολυδυνάστες) where each one controlled a town within the kingdom. The monarchy was established on hereditary lines and Illyrian rulers used marriages as a means of alliance with other powers. Pliny (23–79 AD) writes that the people that formed the nucleus of the Illyrian kingdom were 'Illyrians proper' or Illyrii Proprie Dicti. They were the Taulantii, the Pleraei, the Endirudini, Sasaei, Grabaei and the Labeatae. These later joined to form the Docleatae.\n\nThe Romans defeated Gentius, the last king of Illyria, at Scodra (in present-day Albania) in 168 BC and captured him, bringing him to Rome in 165 BC. Four client-republics were set up, which were in fact ruled by Rome. Later, the region was directly governed by Rome and organized as a province, with Scodra as its capital.\n\nThe Roman province of \"Illyricum\" replaced the formerly independent kingdom of Illyria. It stretched from the Drilon river in modern Albania to Istria (Croatia) in the west and to the Sava river (Bosnia & Herzegovina) in the north. Salona (near modern Split in Croatia) functioned as its capital.\n\nAfter crushing a revolt of Pannonians and Daesitiates, Roman administrators dissolved the province of Illyricum and divided its lands between the new provinces of Pannonia in the north and Dalmatia in the south. Although this division occurred in 10 AD, the term \"Illyria\" remained in use in Late Latin and throughout the medieval period. After the division of the Roman Empire, the bishops of Thessalonica appointed papal vicars for Illyricum. The first of these vicars is said to have been Bishop Acholius or Ascholius (died 383 or 384), the friend of St. Basil. In the 5th century, the bishops of Illyria withdrew from communion with Rome, without attaching themselves to Constantinople, and remained for a time independent, but in 515, forty Illyrian bishops renewed their loyalty to Rome by declaring allegiance to Pope Hormisdas. The patriarchs of Constantinople succeeded in bringing Illyria under their jurisdiction in the 8th century.\n\nThe name \"Illyria\" only disappears from the historical record after the Ottoman invasion of the Balkans in the 15th century, and re-emerges in the 17th century, acquiring a new significance in the Ottoman–Habsburg Wars, as Leopold I designated as the \"Illyrian nation\" the South Slavs in Hungarian territory. Several armorials of the Early modern period, popularly called the \"Illyrian Armorials\", depicted fictional coats of arms of Illyria.\n\nThe name \"Illyria\" was revived by Napoleon for the Illyrian Provinces that were incorporated into the French Empire from 1809 to 1813, and the Kingdom of Illyria (1816–1849) was part of Austria until 1849, after which time it was not used in the reorganised Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nThe Illyrian movement was a pan-South Slavist (Yugoslavism) cultural and political campaign by a group of young Croatian and Serbian intellectuals during the first half of the 19th century.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare chose a fictionalized Illyria as the setting for his play \"Twelfth Night\" (In the modernised film spoof \"She's the Man\", this function is served by \"Illyria High School\" in California). An extensive history of Illyria by Charles du Fresne, sieur du Cange, was published by Joseph Keglevich in 1746. Shakespeare also mentioned the region in the Part 2 of the play \"Henry VI\".\n\nThe land of Illyria is the setting for Jean-Paul Sartre's \"Les Mains Sales\" and in Lloyd Alexander's \"The Illyrian Adventure\".\n\nJohn Hawkes' 1970 novel \"The Blood Oranges\" is set in a fictionalized Illyria.\n\nIn the television show \"Angel\", Illyria was the name of an Old One (an ancient and powerful demon) who was resurrected in the final season.\n\nIn Jacqueline Carey's book \"Kushiel's Chosen\", Illyria is featured as a vassal nation to La Serenissima (Venice).\n\n"}
{"id": "6506610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6506610", "title": "Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb", "text": "Jabal an Nabi Shu'ayb\n\nJabal An-Nabī Shuʿayb () is a mountain of the Sarawat range located in Sana'a Governorate, Yemen. It is the highest mountain of the country and the Arabian Peninsula. It is one of the most prominent peaks in the world and the third most prominent peak in the Middle East.\n\nIts elevation is often reported to be 3,760 metres, but this is not supported by SRTM data or more recent cartographic sources. The height of the mountain is , and is located near the Yemeni capital city of Sana'a. Yemen's second highest peak, Jabal Tiyal, is nearly equidistant from the capital as Jabal an-Nabi Shu'aib is. The mountain may seem like a rocky knoll from observation center like the Sana'a-Al Hudayda highway, but from its western face it is a massive mountain rising from about . This side of the mountain halts clouds burdened with precipitation, causing that side to be relatively fertile. Atop the mountain is a military post with a radar and the shrine of the Islamic \"Nabī\" (Prophet) Shu'ayb. It is relatively difficult to be allowed to its summit, but restrictions have eased as of late. Although the summit is not snow-capped like its counterparts in northern Lebanon and Syria, there have been reports of snow on the peak and frost in the winter. Wind speeds are very high at the summit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41280590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41280590", "title": "Juan Olazábal Ramery", "text": "Juan Olazábal Ramery\n\nJuan Olazábal Ramery (1860–1937), was a Spanish Carlist politician.\n\nJuan José León Félix Ramón Olazábal Ramery was born to a very distinguished Gipuzkoan dynasty, much branched and intemarried with a number of other well known local families. His father, Juan Antonio Olazábal Arteaga, held a number of estates in Eastern part of the province. Following his early death in 1867, Juan and his siblings were raised by their mother, Prudencia Ramery Zuzuarregui. At the outbreak of the Third Carlist War the family sought refuge in France. Following their return to Spain Juan was educated in the Jesuit college in Orduña, where he met and befriended Sabino Arana, to proceed with law studies in another Jesuit institute, Colegio del Pasaxe in the Galician A Guarda. He then moved to in Madrid, to graduate in 1885.\n\nThough the family in some sources is described as Carlist, in fact its different branches adhered to different political options. Juan’s paternal uncle, Ramón Olazábal Arteaga, as coronel of miqueletes sided with the Isabelinos during the Third Carlist War, growing to commander of the entire formation and also the civil governor of Irun. On the other hand, Juan’s maternal uncle, Liborio Ramery Zuzuarregui, made his name as a Carlist politician, Gipzukoan deputy to the Cortes and a Traditionalist writer. A distant relative from paternal branch, Tirso de Olazábal y Lardizábal, became head of Gipuzkoan Carlism and one of the national party leaders. It was rather the influence of Juan’s maternal family, especially Liborio, which combined with the Jesuit education formed him as a Carlist. Juan Olazábal has never married and had no children. Some members of the Olazábal family were active as Carlist politicians in the early Francoist era, though they were very distant Juan’s relatives.\n\nAlready as a student Olazábal engaged in public activity taking part in Carlist-sponsored Catholic initiatives,e.g. protests against krausism-flavored heterodoxy in education or against promotion of figures like Giordano Bruno; instead, he advocated Catholic orthodoxy as fundament of public education in Spain. In 1888 both Olazábal Ramery brothers, Juan and Javier, defected from mainstream Carlism and joined its breakaway branch led by Ramón Nocedal, known as Integrism; they followed the example of their uncle Liborio, who entered the Integrist executive as secretario of junta central. In 1889 they were already active in various minor Integrist public initiatives. Juan returned to Gipuzkoa, building the party structures and mobilising its popular support in the province, which soon turned out to be a national Integrist stronghold. In the 1891 elections the party gained 2 mandates in the province, one conquered by Juan’s uncle Liborio and one by the party leader Nocedal. Since at that time Integrism and mainstream Carlism competed with vehement hostility, the latter success looked triumphant: Nocedal defeated the Gipuzkoan mainstream Carlist leader, Tirso Olazábal. Nocedal was also re-elected in the subsequent elections of 1893.\n\nFollowing the death of Liborio Ramery in 1894, Juan Olazábal took his place in provincial party leadership. The same year he was already representing the province at national party gatherings, hosting party meetings at his Mundaiz estate in 1895 and formally growing to segundo adjunto of the Gipuzkoan branch in 1896. He was engaged in negotiations with other parties during local electoral campaigns. An alliance with the conservatives, known as Union Vasconavarra, produced 3 Integrist mandates into the San Sebastian ayuntamiento in 1893; the same coalition produced the same outcome in 1895, this time Olazábal elected as concejal. He made himself renowned for defending traditional local establishments against the centralising and modernising designs of the Madrid government. In 1896 he was forced to resign after a failed attempt to block ministerial legislation he considered detrimental to the interests of the city, but was reinstated following a successful appeal and served until 1899.\n\nIn the late 1890s the Gipuzkoan Integrism underwent a major crisis, though its nature remains disputed. One theory highlights the alliance strategy; Nocedal changed his recommendations, suggesting coalitions with parties offering the best deal instead of the most approximate ones. Another theory attributes the conflict to nationalist penchant of the dissenters. As they refused to step in line, the rebels, headed by Pedro Grijalba, Ignacio Lardizábal and Aniceto de Rezola, were expulsed by the provincial Junta. Since the outcasts controlled a provincial Gipuzkoan Integrist daily \"El Fuerista\", Olazábal was asked to compensate for the loss; in 1897 he set up a new party newspaper, the San Sebastian-based \"\"; initially it appeared with a sub-title \"Diario Integro Fuerista\", later changed to \"Diario Integrista\", \"Diario Integro-Tradicionalista\" and finally, \"Diario Tradicionalista\". His personal property, it was published until 1936 and, apart from being an official paper of Gipuzkoan Integrism for 34 years, until the end it remained sort of Olazábal’s personal political and ideological tribune.\n\nNamed after a Nocedalist daily of 1867-68, \"La Constancia\" was one of 4 dailies published in Gipuzkoa and one of 14 periodicals controlled by the Integrists in Spain.\nIt remained a modest enterprise, with 2 journalists and 3 permanent collaborators. Its circulation remained unimpressive; in 1920 it was 1,650 copies, compared to 12,000 of the leading Gipuzkoan dailies, \"La Voz de Gipuzkoa\" and \"El Pueblo Vasco\", though still above this of an Integrist daily from neighboring Navarre, which went out of print in some 850-1000 copies. Given a semi-private nature of the paper, there is little doubt its longevity was sustained financially by industrial tycoons of Integrist sympathies. Over the years it gradually became an icon of Traditionalist Spanish press. \"La Constancia\" combined traditionalist Catholic ultraconservatism launched as Integrism by Nocedal with the defence of local Gipuzkoan identity and loyalty. During the Republican years it was subject to suspensions and other administrative measures. In the early 1930s it was integrated into the modern Carlist propaganda machinery and Olazabal ceded its directorship to Francisco Juaristi:; since 1934 it included one page in Basque. After the outbreak of the Civil War its premises were seized by the Republican militias. Once the Carlists conquered San Sebastian its linotype machines were used to launch \"La Voz de Espańa\", which employed also some of the \"La Constancia's\" editorial staff.\n\nIn the last years of the 19th century venomous hostility between Integrists and mainstream Carlists gave way to rapprochement, commenced in Gipuzkoa. Its result was a provincial electoral alliance. In Azpeitia, where two branches of Traditionalism used to compete, the Carlist candidate Teodoro Arana Belaustegui was withdrawn in favour of the Integrists. Their candidate turned out to be Olazábal, elected also by Carlist votes to the Cortes. The years of 1899-1901 were his only term in the parliament; during the successive elections the Azpeitia mandate – virtually ensured for the party – was claimed by other Integrist politicians.\n\nFor reasons which remain rather unclear in the early 20th century Olazábal abandoned national politics and dedicated himself to the local Gipuzkoan issues. In 1904-1906 he engaged in a broad coalition named Liga Foral Autonomista de Guipúzcoa and became its second vicepresident. The alliance declared itself dedicated to traditional provincial fueros and identified fiscal and administrative autonomy as its goals. Its immediate objective was negotiating a new Concierto económico with Madrid and indeed, a contemporary scholar considers the grouping simply a vehicle for pursuing economic goals of local industry tycoons.\n\nBroad and loose political rapprochement of Gipuzkoan parties pursuing regionalist goals produced Olazábal’s success in elections to in 1907 and 1911, in 1914 serving as member of its Comisión Provincial. He is noted not only for work promoting traditional local legal establishments, but also for efforts to sustain typical Gipuzkoan agriculture, like protecting Pyrenaic cattle breeds by means of introducing herdbooks, supporting the Fraisoro agronomy school and supervising provincial veterinary services. Though lacking technical knowledge and somewhat incapacitated by a framework of political alliances, he nevertheless tried to promote the experts against incompetence of the politicians.\n\nIn the early 20th century Olazábal emerged as one of key Integrist politicians. His position was ensured as since the death of Ramón Zavala Salazar in 1899 he was heading the party in its national stronghold. Following the death of Ramón Nocedal early 1907, leadership of the Integrist organization, , was assumed by a triuumvirate, though few months later Olazábal became Presidente del Consejo. In 1909 he was elected the official party leader, also nominated honorary president of a number of local Integrist juntas.\n\nOlazábal's leadership style was rather unobtrusive. Residing in San Sebastian he was away from great national politics; he did not compete for the Cortes and it was minority parliamentarian speaker, Manuel Senante, acting as party representative in Madrid. Though formally the owner of national Integrist daily, \"El Siglo Futuro\", he left Senante to manage the newspaper and seldom contributed as an author, concentrating rather on \"La Constancia\". Finally, during political negotiations with other parties, he authorised the others to represent Partido Católico Nacional.\n\nIn terms of political course Olazábal followed Nocedal closely. The fundamental assumption was that all public activity should be guided by Catholic principles and executed in line with the Roman Catholic teaching. In day-to-day activities it boiled down to opposing secularisation and defending the Church, as demonstrated during crisis. Secondary threads were promoting traditional regional establishments and fighting democracy, especially parties combining nationalism and socialism. Towards the monarchy Integrism remained ambiguous, with some sections of the party favoring different dynastical visions and some leaning towards accidentalism, prepared to accept a republican project.\n\nIntegrism, conceived by Nocedal as political arm of Spanish Catholicism, has never gained more than lukewarm support of the bishops, alienated by its belligerent intransigence. During the Olazábal leadership things went from bad to worse, as the party was increasingly out of tune with the new Church policy. In the early 20th century the Spanish hierarchy abandoned its traditional strategy of influencing key individuals within the liberal monarchy, and switched to mass mobilisation carried by means of broad popular structures and party politics. The Integrists were reluctant to be one of many Catholic parties, despised the democratic format of policy-making and refused to accept \"malmenorismo\". Since Olazábal cultivated traditionalist vision of Catholic political engagement, in 1910s and 1920s Partido Católico Nacional was dramatically outpaced by new breed of modern christian-democratic organizations.\n\nRefusing to take part in primoderiverista structures Olazábal focused on \"La Constancia\"; his 10-hectare Mundaiz estate became an Integrist shrine. Though Partido Católico Nacional was suspended, its offshoot organizations continued to function. Controlling them was getting increasingly difficult. In 1927 Olazábal expulsed the entire San Sebastian branch of Juventud Integrista, a severe loss given its leader, , launched the Juventud in 1910-1914. In 1930 Integrism re-emerged as Comunión Tradicionalista-Integrista. Still headed by Olazábal it maintained local branches in almost all Spanish provinces and re-affirmed its traditional principles, though with little electoral success.\n\nMilitant republican secularism was acknowledged by the Integrists as a barbarian onslaught against the very foundations of civilisation. Overwhelmed be the Leftist sway, Olazábal realized that his party stood little chance of surviving on its own. The row between traditionalist Integrism and modern christian-democratic groupings was already too wide and very few in the party considered rapprochement. On the other hand, ultraconservative vision of religion was shared by mainstream Carlists; as a result, Integristas rather unanimously decided to swallow their accidentalism. Following 44 years of separate political existence Olazábal led them to 1932 reunification within Carlism, into the party named .\n\nWithin consolidated Carlism the former Integrists remained a very influential group. By means of a new publishing house, Editorial Tradicionalista, they continued to control \"El Siglo Futuro\", which became a semi-official Carlist daily. Many former Integros, like a Cantabrian Jose Luis Zamanillo, Castillano José Lamamie, Alicantino Manuel Senante or Andalusian Manuel Fal assumed top positions within the party. Olazábal, due to his age hardly involved in day-to-day business, became sort of a mentor and moral authority. The visible Integrist impact on Comunión Tradicionalista triggered some grumblings among Carlists, especially among the Navarrese.\n\nOlazábal kept lambasting secular republicanism, which cost \"El Siglo Futuro\" and \"La Constancia\" periodical administrative suspensions (the first one in August 1931) and Olazábal himself a police detention; he spent three days in jail. Always championing local traditional establishments, he was profoundly disappointed by turn of the Basque cause. He denounced the initial autonomy draft as godless, considering also the version anti-religious and anti-fuerist. Within the united Carlist community he and Victor Pradera led the anti-statute group, as opposed to the pro-statute Carlists represented by José Luis Oriol and Marcelino Oreja. The divided Carlists refrained from taking a clear political stance, which eventually contributed to failure of the autonomy project.\n\nIt is not clear whether Olazábal was engaged in Carlist preparations to rebellion and whether he was even aware of the forthcoming insurgency. Following the outbreak of hostilities he remained in San Sebastian, where the coup failed, and went on editing \"La Constancia\". He was detained on one of the ships anchored in San Sebastian and later moved to the Bilbao Angeles Custodios prison. Since the Basque government did not deploy autonomous police to protect the building during the unrest, caused by the nationalist bombing raid over the city, the prison was entrusted to the UGT militia unit. On January 4 the socialist militiamen executed around 100 prisoners; some were killed by hand grenades thrown into the cells, some were shot and some were reportedly slashed with machetes. It is not clear how exactly Juan Olazábal died.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28491930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28491930", "title": "List of Windows Games on Demand", "text": "List of Windows Games on Demand\n\nThis is list of the Windows Games on Demand (225) released Games on Demand for the Microsoft Windows platform, available on the now closed Games for Windows Marketplace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14921441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14921441", "title": "List of amusement parks in Asia", "text": "List of amusement parks in Asia\n\nFollowing is a list of amusement parks in Asia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGuangzhou\nShenzhen\nZhuhai\n\nGuilin\n\n\nZhengzhou\n\n\nChangsha\n\nZhangjiajie\n\nDalian\n\nXi'an\n\n\n\nKunming\n\nHangzhou\n\n\n\"See: Taiwan\"\n\nHyderabad\n\n\n\n\n\nBangalore\n\nMysore\n\nMangalore\n\nHubli\n\nThiruvananthapuram\n\nErnakulam\n\nChalakkudy\n\nKannur\n\nPalakkad\n\n\n\nChennai\n\nRest of Tamil Nadu\n\nNoida\n\n\n\n\nKolkata\n\nSiliguri\n\n\n The Biggest waterpark at Indonesia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNagoya\n\n\nHachinohe\n\nUrayasu\n\n\n\n\nFukuoka\n\nKitakyūshū\n\n\n\nEna\n\n\n\nHiroshima\n\n\nAsahikawa\n\nObihiro\n\nOtaru\n\nSapporo\n\n\nHimeji\n\nKobe\n\nHitachi\n\n\n\n\n\n\nYokohama\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBeppu\n\n\n\nOsaka\n\n\nŌtsu\n\n\nHamamatsu\n\n\nUtsunomiya\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSuwon\n\nYongin\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGenting Highlands\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJeddah\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40464065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40464065", "title": "List of churches in Stockholm", "text": "List of churches in Stockholm\n\nThis is a list of churches in Stockholm, the capital of Sweden. The list does not include chapels or minor churches. \n\nChurches in Stockholm County outside Stockholm municipality are listed in two separate lists: List of churches in Uppland and List of churches in Södermanland.\n\nNote: in the list, \"Year\" denotes the year construction of the church was finished, when it was inaugurated, or the main construction period of the church.\n"}
{"id": "24242391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24242391", "title": "List of cities in the Baltic states by population", "text": "List of cities in the Baltic states by population\n\nThis is a list of cities in the Baltic states by population. The population is measured within city limits on a national level, independently, by each statistical bureau. They are: \"Latvijas Statistika\" (Latvia), \"Eesti Statistika\" (Estonia), and \"Lietuvos Statistika\" (Lithuania). Of the top 30 cities by population in the Baltics, 15 are Lithuanian, 10 are Latvian, and 5 are Estonian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16828463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16828463", "title": "List of municipalities in Georgia (country)", "text": "List of municipalities in Georgia (country)\n\nA municipality (, \"munits'ipaliteti\") is a subdivision of Georgia, consisting of a settlement or a group of settlements, which enjoys local self-government. There are two types of municipalities—self-governing cities (ქალაქი, \"k'alak'i\"), 12 in total, and self-governing communities (თემი, temi), 67 in total.\n\nThe municipalities were first established in 2006. Most of them were successors to the earlier subdivisions, known as \"raioni\" (რაიონი), \"districts\". In addition, new municipalities were formed to govern those settlements in the disputed entities of Abkhazia and South Ossetia that then remained under Georgia's control. After the Russo-Georgian War of 2008, Georgia treats these municipalities as parts of its occupied territories. The former districts not under Georgia's effective sovereignty at the moment of the local government reform of 2006 were not transformed into municipalities. Rather, the laws of Georgia include a notion that the final mode of subdivision and system of local self-government should be established after the restoration of the state jurisdiction over the occupied territories. In 2014, the system of local government was further reformed and a total number of municipalities were increased at the expense of adding more self-governing cities. Each municipality is divided into administrative units (ადმინისტრაციული ერთეული), which can comprise one or several settlements.\n\nThe municipalities outside the two autonomous republics of Adjara and of Abkhazia and the capital city of Tbilisi are grouped, on a provisional basis, into nine regions (\"mkhare\"): Guria, Imereti, Kakheti, Kvemo Kartli, Mtskheta-Mtianeti, Racha-Lechkhumi and Kvemo Svaneti, Samegrelo-Zemo Svaneti, Samtskhe-Javakheti, and Shida Kartli.\n\n\n– The territories of Abkhazia outside Georgia's control and defined by Georgia as \"occupied territories\" as of 2015.\n\n– These municipalities which include settlements in South Ossetia outside Georgia's control and defined by Georgia as \"occupied territories\" as of 2015.\n\n– Official statistics available only for those parts of the municipalities that are controlled by Georgia.\n\n– Official statistics are not available for the territories not under Georgia's control (Abkhazia and South Ossetia).\n\n"}
{"id": "30859272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30859272", "title": "List of programmes broadcast by CITV", "text": "List of programmes broadcast by CITV\n\nThe following is a list of programming, past and present, which has been carried by CITV, the children's television strand of ITV in the United Kingdom, both in the form of the programming block carried from 3 January 1983 to 2007, and on the separate CITV digital channel since 11 March 2006. More details about both the past programming block and current channel are contained within the CITV article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSigned Stories was created by ITV SignPost – ITV’s centre of excellence for multi-platform British Sign Language services – as a resource for deaf children and their families, and for teachers of deaf children. The £1.5million initiative was delivered with some of the world’s leading publishers, as part of the company’s corporate and social responsibility plan to give deaf children access to the best children’s books in their native sign language.\n\nThe free website www.signedstories.com has grown in popularity with deaf and hearing children, children with special educational needs and those learning English as a second language – it’s now used by hundreds of thousands of children around the world, at school and in the home.\n\n9.25am/7.25am on Saturday mornings has traditionally been the slot for CITV's flagship entertainment programme. The programmes were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6014487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6014487", "title": "List of red-light districts", "text": "List of red-light districts\n\nRed-light districts are areas associated with the sex industry and sex-oriented businesses (e.g. sex shops and strip clubs). In some of these places prostitution may legally take place. Other red-light districts are known for their illegal prostitution scene (in countries where prostitution is illegal). In red light districts where prostitution is illegal prostitutes or clients may be arrested or fined if caught by the police (the enforcement of anti-prostitution laws varies by country or place).\n\nFollowing is a partial list of well known red-light districts around the world, both current and historical.\n\nProstitution is legal but third party involvement is prohibited.\n\n\nProstitution is not specifically prohibited by the law, but soliciting and pimping are illegal.\n\nProstitution in Egypt is illegal.\n\nProstitution in Ivory Coast is legal.\n\n\nProstitution is illegal.\n\n\nProstitution in Mauritania is illegal.\n\n\nProstitution is illegal.\n\nProstitution is illegal.\n\nProstitution in regulated.\n\n\nProstitution is illegal, but tolerated.\n\nProstitution is illegal.\n\nProstitution itself is not illegal but operating a brothel is illegal.\n\n\nProstitution is not illegal when performed by a person acting alone in private but public solicitation, brothels and pimping are illegal (however in practice prostitution is tolerated and regulated).\n\nProstitution is illegal in non-regulated areas. Prostitution is legal in some locations (including pimping and maintaining a brothel).\n\n\nProstitution is illegal but narrowly defined. Many sexual acts for pay that would be considered to be prostitution in other countries are legal.\nProstitution is illegal.\n\n\nProstitution is legal but pimping and operating a brothel are illegal.\n\n\nProstitution is illegal, but in practice it is tolerated and regulated.\n\nProstitution in most of Malaysia is legal and widespread, though there are laws against prostitution-related activities. However, prostitution is illegal in Malaysia's Kelantan state.\n\nProstitution is illegal, but in practice it is somewhat tolerated although not regulated.\n\nProstitution is illegal, but widespread and generally tolerated.\n\nProstitution itself is not illegal; however, public solicitation, living on the earnings of a prostitute, and maintaining a brothel are illegal.\n\nProstitution is illegal in Thailand, and solicitation and public nuisance laws are in effect. In practice it is tolerated and partly regulated.\n\nProstitution is legal and regulated.\n\nProstitution is legal, though brothels are not. Enforcement of the law can be lax.\n\nProstitution is illegal.\n\n\nProstitution is legal, but brothels and other forms of procuring are prohibited.\n\nProstitution is legal, but running brothels and pimping are illegal.\n\nProstitution is legal, but running brothels and pimping are illegal.\n\nPaying for sex, pimping and keeping a brothel are illegal. Prostitutes commit no offence unless soliciting.\n\nProstitution is legal and regulated.\n\nProstitution illegal.\n\n\n\nPaying for sex is illegal, as is soliciting in a public place, operating brothels, and other forms of pimping. \n\nProstitution is legal, but running brothels and pimping are illegal.\n\nProstitution is legal, but running brothels and pimping are illegal.\n\nProstitution and associated activities are legal and common. A total of 12 cities in the Netherlands have red light districts with window prostitution.\n\nProstitution is legal, but running brothels and pimping are illegal.\n\nProstitution in Serbia is illegal.\nBrothels are illegal (since 1956), but \"clubs\" and \"wiskerias\" are fronts for prostitution and are tolerated.\n\nPaying for sex is illegal, as is soliciting in a public place, operating brothels, and other forms of pimping. \nProstitution is legal and regulated.\n\nProstitution is not illegal when performed by a person acting alone in private, but public solicitation, brothels and pimping are. The Policing and Crime Act 2009 makes it illegal to pay for sex with a prostitute who has been “subjected to force” and this is a \"strict liability offence\" (clients can be prosecuted even if they didn’t know the prostitute was forced).\n\n\n\nProstitution is legal but related activities are prohibited.\n\n\nProstitution is legal and regulated.\n\nProstitution is legal but related activities such as brothel keeping and solicitation are prohibited.\n\n\nProstitution is legal, though many associated activities (brothels, advertising, street walking) are not.\n\nProstitution is legal but related activities such as brothel keeping are illegal.\n\nProstitution is legal but procuring is prohibited.\n\n\nProstitution is legal and regulated.\n\n\nProstitution laws vary by state and territory, however it is illegal except for some rural counties of Nevada. Strip clubs are legal in most areas, including fully nude strip clubs. Many massage shops offer \"happy endings\", which is an illegal form of prostitution.\n\nProstitution laws vary by state, either being legal or decriminalized.\n\nProstitution and associated activities are legal.\n\n"}
{"id": "36676717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36676717", "title": "List of wars involving the People's Republic of China", "text": "List of wars involving the People's Republic of China\n\nThis is a list of wars involving the People's Republic of China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4304205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4304205", "title": "Longobardia", "text": "Longobardia\n\nLongobardia (, also variously Λογγιβαρδία, \"Longibardia\" and Λαγουβαρδία, \"Lagoubardia\") was a Byzantine term for the territories controlled by the Lombards in Italy. In the 9th-10th centuries, it was also the name of a Byzantine military-civilian province (or \"thema\") known as the Theme of Longobardia located in southeastern Italy.\n\nThe term was traditionally used for the Lombard possessions, with the chronicler Theophanes the Confessor distinguishing between \"Great Longobardia\" (Greek: Μεγάλη Λογγοβαρδία; Latin: \"Longobardia major\"), namely the Lombard kingdom in northern Italy, and \"Lesser Longobardia\" (Latin: \"Longobardia minor\"), which comprised southern Italy, with the Lombard duchies of Benevento, Spoleto, Salerno and Capua, the Byzantine possessions, and the city-states (Naples, Gaeta and Amalfi) under Byzantine suzerainty.\n\nIn its strictest and most technical sense, the name referred to the province (\"thema\") which encompassed the modern Italian region of Apulia and parts of Basilicata, with Bari as its capital. Its exact origin and evolution are not entirely clear. After a century of almost complete absence from the affairs of the Italian peninsula, Byzantium once more began to intervene actively under Basil I the Macedonian (reigned 867–886), whose western policy aimed to clear the Adriatic Sea from Saracen raiders, re-establish Byzantine dominance over Dalmatia, and extend Byzantine control once more over parts of Italy. In this process, Otranto was taken from the Saracens in 873, and in 876 the Byzantines took over Bari, which had been captured from its Saracen rulers in 871 by Louis II of Italy. It was probably at this juncture that the foundations of the later theme were laid, perhaps in the form of a subordinate division (\"tourma\") of the \"thema\" of Cephallenia.\n\nThe campaigns of Nikephoros Phokas the Elder in the mid-880s and of his successors greatly expanded the area under Byzantine control, which came to include all of Calabria, Apulia, and the Basilicata. Even Benevento, the centre of Lombard power in southern Italy, was captured in 891. The first reference to Longobardia as a theme dates to precisely this time, but at first it appears that it was administered jointly with other European \"themata\" of the Byzantine Empire: in 891 the first known \"strategos\" (military governor) of Longobardia, Symbatikios, was also governor of Macedonia, Thrace and Cephallenia, while his successor George administered Longobardia jointly with its parent \"thema\", Cephallenia. A dedicated \"strategos\" solely for Longobardia is only attested from 911 on. In 938 and 956, it also appears united with the \"thema\" of Calabria, although the duration of this arrangement is unclear. At any rate, after c. 965, the two \"themata\" were permanently united into the new Catepanate of Italy, with the catepan's seat again at Bari.\n\nThe Varangian Guard fought as part of the Byzantine army in several campaigns in the area, known to them as \"Langbardland\"; in their Scandinavian homleand, their exploits are commemorated in the Italy runestones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25100217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25100217", "title": "Maestrazgo", "text": "Maestrazgo\n\nThe Maestrazgo () or Maestrat () is a natural and historical mountainous region, located at the eastern end of the Sistema Ibérico mountain range, in Spain. It encompasses the north of the Autonomous Community of Valencia, in Castellón province, and parts of the east of the Aragonese province of Teruel. The area is mountainous and sparsely populated with a rich mixture of flora and fauna.\n\nThe district was under control of military orders following the 12th-century Christian reconquest of the area from the Moors. It also had a significant role in the 19th century Carlist Wars and the 20th century Spanish Civil War. After many years of decline the area is undergoing some re-vitalization, helped by funding from the European Union and tourism.\n\nThe earliest signs of human habitation date back to the Pleistocene era, 25,000 years ago. Cave paintings have been discovered in many locations and they have been designated by UNESCO as part of the Rock Art of the Mediterranean Basin on the Iberian Peninsula World Heritage Site.\n\nOccupation by the Ilercavones, a tribe of Iberians, Romans and the Moors followed, but the identity of the region was first established following the Reconquista when the area was dominated by military orders. Local stories persist that a group of Cathars, led by the perfectus Guillaume Bélibaste escaped from Carcassonne and took refuge in the Maestrazgo, living with a small community near Morella for about ten years, before being betrayed by a spy in the service of the Inquisition. Bélibaste was taken to Carcassonne and burnt at the stake there.\n\nThe name Maestrazgo is derived from the word \"maestre\" (English meaning - master) as these territories were historically under the jurisdiction of the Grand Masters of the military orders of the Knights Templar, St John of Malta and Montesa.\n\nIn 1838, during the Carlist Wars, the military district of \"la Comandancia General del Maestrazgo\" was created by Ramón Cabrera. During the Spanish Civil War the area was intensively fought over, especially after the fall of Teruel. Republican guerillas of the \"Agrupación guerrillera de Levante y Aragón\" held out in the mountains of the Maestrazgo until the 1950s.\n\nThe mountains in the Maestrazgo, like the Serra de la Creu, Serra d'En Segures, Talaies d'Alcalà, Serra de la Vall d'Àngel, Serra d'en Galceran, Serra d'Esparreguera, Serra de Sant Pere, Serra de Vallivana, Serra d'En Celler, Tossal de la Barbuda, Montegordo, the Cervera Mountains, Serra del Turmell, Serra de l'Espadella, Moles de Xert and the Benifassà Mountains, form the Mediterranean end of the Sistema Ibérico. The highest point is the high Penyagolosa, located at the southern end of the region. At the base of the mountain is the important pilgrimage destination of Sant Joan de Penyagolosa.\n\nIn the Castellón province administrative divisions, the Maestrazgo is divided into Alt Maestrat and Baix Maestrat. The historical territory does not exactly match these boundaries including also parts of Alcalatén and Plana Alta. In Aragon, Teruel Province there is a comarca officially called Maestrazgo since 1999, but historically locations in other districts were also part of the Maestrazgo. The region has formed a Mancomunidad, a free association for cooperative purposes, between fifty five municipalities. Major settlements include Vilafranca, Cantavieja, Morella and Alcañiz.\n\nThe Maestrazgo Cultural Park has been established to protect the regional culture and landscape. The area lies between altitudes of to and is drained by the Guadalope and Turia rivers.\n\nThe Maestrazgo supports a diverse section of plants and trees including thyme, rosemary, lavender, mint, pennyroyal, mountain tea, chamomile, black truffles, poplars, elms, ash, beech, holm oaks and black pine.\n\nFauna includes ibex, muflón, wildcats, otters, pine martens, foxes, genets, goshawks, Bonelli's eagles, sparrowhawks, owls, vultures, and game and fish such as partridges, quails, hares, rabbits, wild boar, trout, and catfish.\n\nTourism has in recent years brought a halt to economic decline in the region and the injection of European Union funding has led to the development of heritage centres and cooperatives providing training in practical crafts. Agriculture, including pigs, poultry, sheep, goats and smallholdings predominate in the valleys. In 1995, Ken Loach's award winning film about the Spanish Civil War, \"Land and Freedom\", was filmed in the Maestrazgo. Life in the area and much of its history is described vividly in Jason Webster's 2009 book \" Sacred Sierra - A Year on a Spanish Mountain\". Efforts have been made to halt de-population by attracting immigrants from South America and Romania. This has had some success, helping keeping village facilities alive.\n\nIn 2008 palaeontologists discovered an intact specimen of a previously unknown species of sauropod dinosaur at a site near Morella. The animal was believed to have lived in the early Cretaceous period, approximately 120 million years ago. Funding from wind energy companies and the regional government has aided the excavations and will support a dinosaur museum to be opened at Morella.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47274062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47274062", "title": "Meng-p'o Macula", "text": "Meng-p'o Macula\n\nMeng-p'o is the easternmost of the \"Brass Knuckles\", a series of equatorial dark regions on Pluto. Meng-p'o straddles the zero meridian, directly under Pluto's tidally locked moon Charon and just west of the tail of the \"Whale\", Cthulhu Macula. It is named after Meng Po , the Chinese underworld deity of forgetfulness.\n"}
{"id": "8931614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8931614", "title": "Mousa Ali", "text": "Mousa Ali\n\nMousa Ali () is a stratovolcano located on the tri-point of Ethiopia, Eritrea and Djibouti. The volcano is the highest point in Djibouti. The volcano's summit is truncated by a caldera, which contains rhyolitic lava domes and lava flows. The last known eruption occurred before the Holocene era.\n\nMousa Ali is situated at the tri-point of the Tadjourah Region of Djibouti, the Southern Red Sea Region of Eritrea, and the Afar Region of Ethiopia.\n\nThe mountain has two distinct summits, the higher being the south one with an elevation of 2,021 metres The north summit in Ethiopia has an elevation of 1,871 metres. Both summits are separated by a large caldera, about 1 km (0.71 mi) wide and 1514 metres deep. Mousa Ali, in the northern part of the Great Rift Valley region, has Eritrea on its northern flank, Ethiopia on the west, and Djibouti the east and south. The Djiboutian town of Dorra is 36 km to the south-southeast, the Ethiopian volcano Manda-Inakir is 22 km to the southwest, and the road from the Ethiopian town of Manda to the Eritrean port of Assab is 19 km to the northwest.\n\nThe mountain is home to an abundant amount of wildlife, lush vegetation, flowering shrubs and trees and various plants.\n\nTwo sects of Afar live in the area. They are collectively known as Adrúmmi, from 'Adó rum li or \"white as Byzantines.\"\nThe position of Ali Mousa as the tripoint between Ethiopia, Eritrea and Djibouti is not the result of an agreement between the three countries. In December 1948 the British administering Eritrea refused to attend a meeting with the other two parties to determine the exact location of their tripoint, set in a 1908 treaty as 60 km inland from the Red Sea. British administration of Eritrea ended in 1952, and with increasing Ethiopian administration over the ensuing decade, and incorporation into Ethiopia from 1962 to 1993, the boundary was internal, not international. In 2002, the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission established the tri-point at the Mousa Ali summit; Ethiopia had pressed for it to be further east, nearer to Dadda'to, Djibouti.\n\nThe temperature of Mousa Ali usually ranges from 7 °C to 19 °C in December and January, and 14 °C to 29 °C from June to September. \nThe weather on the mountain can be very erratic, sometimes severe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2238288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238288", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Italy", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Italy\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of Italy (IT), the three levels are:\n\nIn the 2003 version, the original four provinces of Sardegna were coded as follows:\nAs of 2010, the code for Central Italy was changed from ITE to ITI. The same goes for Northeast Italy; it was changed from ITD to ITH. The others remained the same.\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of Italy can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57736834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57736834", "title": "Nieuwenhuizen", "text": "Nieuwenhuizen\n\nNieuwenhuizen is a Dutch surname meaning \"new houses\". A great number of variant forms exist (see the most common form Nieuwenhuis). Notable people with such surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16285658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285658", "title": "Outline of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "Outline of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:\n\nSaint Vincent and the Grenadines is a sovereign island nation located in the Lesser Antilles archipelago in the Caribbean Sea. Its territory consists of the main island of Saint Vincent and the northern two-thirds of the Grenadines. The country has a French and British colonial history and is now part of the Commonwealth of Nations and CARICOM.\n\n\nGeography of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\n\n\nRegions of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nList of ecoregions in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nDemographics of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nPolitics of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nGovernment of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\n\n\nCourt system of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nForeign relations of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nSaint Vincent and the Grenadines is a member of:\n\nLaw of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nMilitary of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nLocal government in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nHistory of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nCulture of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\n\nSport in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nEconomy of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nEducation in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\n\nSaint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\n"}
{"id": "6206960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6206960", "title": "Pan-African Ocean", "text": "Pan-African Ocean\n\nThe Pan-African Ocean is a hypothesized paleo-ocean whose closure created the supercontinent of Pannotia. The ocean may have existed before the break-up of the supercontinent of Rodinia. The ocean closed before the beginning of the Phanerozoic Eon, when the Panthalassa ocean expanded, and was eventually replaced by it.\n\n"}
{"id": "267918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=267918", "title": "Periplus of the Erythraean Sea", "text": "Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\n\nThe Periplus of the Erythraean Sea or Periplus of the Red Sea (, ) is a Greco-Roman periplus written in Koine Greek that describes navigation and trading opportunities from Roman Egyptian ports like Berenice Troglodytica along the coast of the Red Sea, and others along Horn of Africa, the Sindh region of Pakistan, along with southwestern regions of India. The text has been ascribed to different dates between the first and third centuries CE, but a mid-first century date is now the most commonly accepted. While the author is unknown, it is clearly a firsthand description by someone familiar with the area and is nearly unique in providing accurate insights into what the ancient European world knew about the lands around the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe \"Erythraean Sea\", or in modern spelling, \"Eritrean Sea\" () is presently a Greek name for the Red Sea; to the ancient Greeks it included the Indian Ocean in its entirety and the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe work consists of 66 chapters, most of them about the length of a long paragraph in English. For instance, the short Chapter 9 reads in its entirety:\nIn many cases, the description of places is sufficiently accurate to identify their present locations; for others, there is considerable debate. For instance, a \"Rhapta\" is mentioned as the farthest market down the African coast of \"Azania\", but there are at least five locations matching the description, ranging from Tanga to south of the Rufiji River delta. The description of the Indian coast mentions the Ganges River clearly, yet after that is somewhat garbled, describing China as a \"great inland city Thina\" that is a source of raw silk.\n\nThe \"Periplus\" says that a direct sailing route from the Red Sea to the Indian peninsula across the open ocean was discovered by Hippalus (1st century BCE).\n\nMany trade goods are mentioned in the \"Periplus\", but some of the words naming trade goods are seen nowhere else in ancient literature, and so we can only guess as to what they might be. For example, one trade good mentioned is \"lakkos chromatinos\". The name \"lakkos\" appears nowhere else in ancient Greek or Roman literature. The name re-surfaces in late medieval Latin as \"lacca\", borrowed from medieval Arabic \"lakk\" in turn borrowed from Sanskritic \"lakh\", meaning lac i.e. a red-colored resin native to India used as a lacquer and used also as a red colorant. Some other named trade goods remain obscure.\n\nThe \"Periplus\" text derives from a Byzantine 10th-century manuscript in minuscule hand, contained in the collections of the University Library Heidelberg (CPG 398: 40v-54v), and a copy of it dating from the 14th or 15th century in the British Museum (B.M. Add 19391 9r-12r). In the 10th-century manuscript, the text is attributed to Arrian, probably for no deeper reason than that the manuscript was adjacent to the \"Periplus Ponti Euxini\" written by him. The \"Periplus\" was edited by Sigmund Gelen (Zikmund Hruby z Jeleni of Prague) and first published in a modern edition by Hieronymus Froben in 1533. This edition was corrupt and full of errors but served for later editions for three centuries until the rediscovery of the 10th century Heidelberg manuscript which was taken to Rome during the Thirty Years War (1618–1648), then to Paris under Napoleon, and finally returned to Heidelberg in 1816.\n\nOne historical analysis, published by Schoff in 1912, narrowed the date of the text to 59-62 CE, in agreement with present-day estimates of the middle of the 1st century CE. Schoff additionally provides an historical analysis as to the text's original authorship, and arrives at the conclusion that the author was a \"Greek in Egypt, a Roman subject.\" By Schoff's calculations, this would have been during the time of Tiberius Claudius Balbilus (who coincidentally also was an Egyptian Greek).\n\nJohn Hill maintains that the \"Periplus can now be confidently dated to between 40 and 70 AD and, probably, between AD 40 and 50.\"\n\nSchoff continues by noting that the author could not have been \"a highly educated man\" as \"is evident from his frequent confusion of Greek and Latin words and his clumsy and sometimes ungrammatical constructions.\" Because of \"the absence of any account of the journey up the Nile and across the desert from Coptos,\" Schoff prefers to pinpoint the author's residence to \"Berenice rather than Alexandria.\" Though Schoff is unclear about which of several Berenices he is referring to, it is actually Berenice Troglodytica which is documented, discussed at length and vividly described within the periplus text itself.\n\nOne peculiarity noted by Schoff while translating from the original Greek version is that \"the text is so vague and uncertain that [the author] seems rather to be quoting from someone else, unless indeed much of this part of the work has been lost in copying.\"\n\nShips from Himyar regularly traveled the East African coast. The \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" describes the trading empire of Himyar and Saba, regrouped under a single ruler, \"Charibael\" (Karab Il Watar Yuhan'em II), who is said to have been on friendly terms with Rome:\n\nThe Frankincense kingdom is described further east along the southern coast of the Arabian Peninsula, with the harbour of Cana (South Arabic \"Qana\", modern Bir Ali in Hadramaut). The ruler of this kingdom is named Eleazus, or Eleazar, thought to correspond to King Iliazz Yalit I:\n\nRas Hafun in northern Somalia is believed to be the location of the ancient trade center of Opone. Ancient Egyptian, Roman and Persian Gulf pottery has been recovered from the site by an archaeological team from the University of Michigan. Opone is in the thirteenth entry of the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\", which in part states:\n\nIn ancient times, Opone operated as a port of call for merchants from Phoenicia, Egypt, Greece, Persia, Yemen, Nabataea, Azania, the Roman Empire and elsewhere, as it possessed a strategic location along the coastal route from Azania to the Red Sea. Merchants from as far afield as Indonesia and Malaysia passed through Opone, trading spices, silks and other goods, before departing south for Azania or north to Yemen or Egypt on the trade routes that spanned the length of the Indian Ocean's rim. As early as 50 CE, Opone was well known as a center for the cinnamon trade, along with the trading of cloves and other spices, ivory, exotic animal skins and incense.\n\nThe ancient port city of Malao, situated in present-day Berbera in northwestern Somalia, is also mentioned in the Periplus:\n\nAksum is mentioned in the \"Periplus\" as an important market place for ivory, which was exported throughout the ancient world:\n\nAccording to the \"Periplus\", the ruler of Aksum in the 1st century CE was Zoscales, who, besides ruling in Aksum also held under his sway two harbours on the Red Sea: Adulis (near Massawa) and Avalites (Assab). He is also said to have been familiar with Greek literature:\n\nRecent research by the Tanzanian archaeologist Felix Chami has uncovered extensive remains of Roman trade items near the mouth of the Rufiji River and the nearby Mafia island, and makes a strong case that the ancient port of Rhapta was situated on the banks of the Rufiji River just south of Dar es Salaam.\n\nThe \"Periplus\" informs us that:\n\nChami summarizes the evidence for Rhapta's location as follows:\n\nIn recent years, Felix Chami has found archaeological evidence for extensive Roman trade on Mafia Island and, not far away, on the mainland, near the mouth of the Rufiji River, which he dated to the first few centuries CE. Furthermore, J. Innes Miller points out that Roman coins have been found on Pemba island, just north of Rhapta.\n\nNevertheless, Carl Peters has argued that Rhapta was near modern-day Quelimane in Mozambique, citing the fact that (according to the \"Periplus\") the coastline there ran down towards the southwest. Peters also suggests that the description of the \"Pyralaoi\" (i.e., the \"Fire people\") – \"situated at the entry to the [Mozambique] Channel\" – indicates that they were the inhabitants of the volcanic Comoro Islands. He also maintains that Menuthias (with its abundance of rivers and crocodiles) cannot have been Zanzibar; i.e., Madagascar seems more likely.\n\nThe \"Periplus\" informs us that Rhapta, was under the firm control of a governor appointed by Arabian king of Musa, taxes were collected, and it was serviced by \"merchant craft that they staff mostly with Arab skippers and agents who, through continual intercourse and intermarriage, are familiar with the area and its language\".\n\nThe Periplus explicitly states that Azania (which included Rhapta) was subject to Charibaêl, the king of both the Sabaeans and Homerites in the southwest corner of Arabia. The kingdom is known to have been a Roman ally at this period. Charibaêl is stated in the Periplus to be \"a friend of the (Roman) emperors, thanks to continuous embassies and gifts\" and, therefore, Azania could fairly be described as a vassal or dependency of Rome, just as Zesan is described in the 3rd-century Chinese history, the \"Weilüe\".\n\nTrade with the Indian harbour of Barygaza is described extensively in the \"Periplus\". Nahapana, ruler of the Indo-Scythian Western Satraps is mentioned under the name \"Nambanus\", as ruler of the area around Barigaza:\n\nUnder the Western Satraps, Barigaza was one of the main centers of Roman trade in the subcontinent. The \"Periplus\" describes the many goods exchanged:\n\nGoods were also brought down in quantity from Ujjain, the capital of the Western Satraps:\n\nThe lost port city of Muziris (Near present day Cochin) in the Chera kingdom, as well as the Early Pandyan Kingdom are mentioned in the \"Periplus\" as major centers of trade, pepper and other spices, metal work and semiprecious stones, between Damirica and the Roman Empire.\n\nAccording to the \"Periplus\", numerous Greek seamen managed an intense trade with Muziris:\nDamirica or Limyrike is Tamilagam (Tamil தமிழகம்) – the \"Tamil country\". Further, this area served as a hub for trade with the interior, in the Gangetic plain:\nThe \"Periplus\" also describes the annual fair in present-day Northeast India, on the border with Tibet.\nSêsatai are the source of \"malabathron\".\n\nThe \"Periplus\" claims that Greek buildings and wells exist in Barigaza, falsely attributing them to Alexander the Great, who never went this far south. This account of a kingdom tracing its beginnings to Alexander's campaigns and the Hellenistic Seleucid empire that followed:\nThe \"Periplus\" further claims to the circulation of Indo-Greek coinage in the region:\nThe Greek city of Alexandria Bucephalous on the Jhelum River is mentioned in the \"Periplus\", as well as in the Roman Peutinger Table:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27760136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27760136", "title": "Philippi Glacier, Antarctica", "text": "Philippi Glacier, Antarctica\n\nPhilippi Glacier () is coastal glacier about 15 mi long, flowing N to the E end of the West Ice Shelf, 15 mi W of Gaussberg. Delineated from aerial photographs taken by U.S. Navy (USN) OpHjp, 1946-47. Named by the ANCA for Emil Philippi, geologist with the German Antarctic Expedition (GerAE) under Erich von Drygalski, 1901–03, who made scientific observations in the vicinity of Gaussberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1465207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1465207", "title": "Plot plan", "text": "Plot plan\n\nA plot plan is an architecture, engineering, and/or landscape architecture plan drawing—diagram which shows the buildings, utility runs, and equipment layout, the position of roads, and other constructions of an existing or proposed project site at a defined scale. Plot plans are also known more commonly as site plans. The plot plan is a 'top-down' orientation.\n\nThe specific objects and relations shown are dependent on the purpose for creating the plot plan, but typically contain: retained and proposed buildings, landscape elements, above ground features and obstructions, major infrastructure routes, and critical legal considerations such as property boundaries, setbacks, and rights of way.\n\nSpecific design disciplines' plot plans can be part of a complex project's documents, such as grading, landscape, foundation engineering, and utilities (e.g. in architecture, a plot plan drawing shows all the major features and structures on a piece of property like: buildings, porches, decks, sheds, swimming pool, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "3575102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3575102", "title": "Sigerdis", "text": "Sigerdis\n\nSigerdis is a name given by the ancient Greeks to a part of the northwestern South Asia. It seems to correspond to the \"Sindhu\", the delta of the Indus river, today's area of Sindh in southern Pakistan.\n\nReferring to the conquests of the Indo-Greeks in the 2nd century BCE, Strabo writes that:\n\n"}
{"id": "22785779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22785779", "title": "Subdivisions of Guinea", "text": "Subdivisions of Guinea\n\nGuinea is divided into four natural regions with distinct human, geographic, and climatic characteristics:\n\n\nGuinea is divided into seven administrative regions. The national capital, Conakry, ranks as a special zone.\n\n\nGuineas regions are subdivided into thirty-three prefectures.\n\nThe Communes of Guinea or sub prefectures, known in French as \"sous-prefectures\", are the third-level administrative divisions in Guinea. As of 2009 there were 303 rural communes of Guinea and 38 urban communes, 5 of which compose the Conakry greater urban area.\n\n"}
{"id": "868632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=868632", "title": "Söderort", "text": "Söderort\n\nSöderort (literally \"the southern place\", sometimes translated to \"South Stockholm\") is the southern suburban part of the Stockholm Municipality, Sweden. It is also part of the city of Stockholm. \n\nSöderort is located in the northern part of the Södertörn peninsula/island. The boroughs of Söderort are: Enskede-Årsta-Vantör, Farsta, Hägersten-Liljeholmen, Skärholmen, Skarpnäck and Älvsjö.\n\nThe main part of Söderort was annexed by the \"City of Stockholm\" in 1913.\n\nSince 2007, Söderort is organized into six \"stadsdelsområden\" (sometimes translated to boroughs): Enskede-Årsta-Vantör, Farsta, Hägersten-Liljeholmen, Skarpnäck, Skärholmen, and Älvsjö.\n\nBefore 2007, it was organized into eight \"stadsdelsområden\": Enskede-Årsta, Farsta, Hägersten, Liljeholmen, Skarpnäck, Skärholmen, Vantör and Älvsjö.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33039557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33039557", "title": "Telephone numbers in Saint Helena and Tristan da Cunha", "text": "Telephone numbers in Saint Helena and Tristan da Cunha\n\nCountry Code: +290<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 00<br>\nTrunk Prefix: 0\n\nAscension Island no longer shares the same country code with the rest of Saint Helena (i.e. Saint Helena and Tristan da Cunha).\n\nFormat: +290 XXXX\n\nFrom 1 October 2013 all existing 4-digit telephone numbers on St Helena will be prefixed by a ‘2’ to implement a 5-digit numbering plan. The change in numbering resulted after the increased demand for new telephone services while also providing a platform for the future introduction of a cellular network on the island.\n\nAlthough Tristan da Cunha shares the +290 code with St Helena, residents have access to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Telecommunications Network, provided by Global Crossing. This uses a London 020 numbering range, meaning that numbers are accessed via the UK telephone numbering plan.\n\n"}
{"id": "50391257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50391257", "title": "Tide-Predicting Machine No. 2", "text": "Tide-Predicting Machine No. 2\n\nTide-Predicting Machine No. 2, also known as Old Brass Brains, was a special-purpose mechanical analog computer that uses gears, pulleys, chains, and other mechanical components to compute the height and time of high and low tides for specific locations. The machine can perform tide calculations much faster than a person could do with pencil and paper. The U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey put the machine into operation in 1910. It was used until 1965, when it was replaced by an electronic computer.\n\nTides are the rise and fall of sea levels caused by the combined effects of gravitational forces exerted by the Moon, Sun, and rotation of the Earth. In 1867 the United States Coast Survey started printing annual tide tables to support safe and effective maritime, coastal, and defense activities. Before long, these tables showed the times and heights of high and low tides to the nearest minute and tenth of a foot, respectively. Tables were printed for a year at a time and distributed prior to the start of the year.\n\nThe prediction of tides is very challenging as it depends on multiple factors–including the alignment of the Sun and Moon, the shape of the coastline, and near-shore bathymetry. Tide theories attempt to account for these factors but lead to complex calculations. Originally, calculations were performed by hand, which was very labor-intensive and error-prone. The burden became even larger when the United State Coast and Geodetic Survey (USCGS, the successor to the Coast Survey) started using the more accurate harmonic method for predictions of tides in 1884.\n\nTo significantly reduce the work required to predict tides, in 1881 William Ferrel of the USCGS designed a tide-predicting machine. Fauth & Co. Instrument Makers built Tide-Predicting Machine No. 1 and delivered it in 1882. The Survey started using the machine routinely in 1883.\n\nIn 1895 the USCGS grew concerned because Tide-Predicting Machine No. 1 had developed considerable wear from almost constant use over 12 years. The office decided to construct a new machine that was faster, more accurate, and more reliable. This became Tide-Predicting Machine No. 2.\n\nRolin Harris and E. G. Fischer of the USCGS led the effort. The design team studied previous British and U.S. tide-predicting machines and incorporated their best attributes in the design of the new machine. The machine, also known as “Old Brass Brains”, used an intricate arrangement of gears, pulleys, slides, and other components. The design of the new machine was approved in 1895, and construction began in 1896.\n\nTide-Predicting Machine No. 2 was the first tide-predicting machine to incorporate both a paper graph of the tides–the approach used by earlier British machines–and dials and scales that showed the tide height and corresponding date and time–used by Tide-Predicting Machine No. 1. The dials and scales made it much easier for an operator to precisely determine the height and time of high and low tides. The paper graph, referred to as a tide curve, was very useful as a record of the computation that could be checked later to confirm the calculations were performed correctly.\n\nA hand crank turned by the operator provides the power for the machine’s mechanical calculations. Battery-powered electrical circuits are used to mark the start of hours and days on the paper graph and to stop the machine when high and low tides were reached so the operator can note the height and time.\n\nMuch consideration was given to the mechanical characteristics of the components to ensure reliability and accuracy. For instance, some components that were hard to replace were designed with a 50-year lifetime. Also, the summation chains were moved across gears under tension for a year of work days before being installed in the machine to ensure they were sufficiently flexible and their length would remain constant.\n\nOther work in the USCGS took precedence over construction of the new machine, and a reduction in staff levels precluded all work on the new machine for three years. As a result, Tide-Predicting Machine No. 2 was not functional until 1910. It was first applied to predicting values for the 1912 and 1913 tide tables. Then the machine was disassembled, polished, plated, lacquered, and reassembled in time to provide predictions for the 1914 tide tables. Comparisons of the accuracy of the mechanical predictions of tides compared to hand calculations for two challenging locations demonstrated errors in heights of or less.\n\nOld Brass Brains is long, high, wide and weighs approximately .\n\nTo compute tides for a coastal location, the operator has to configure the machine for that location. This is done by adjusting physical settings on the machine based on up to 37 factors. Those factors are determined empirically by harmonic analysis of a time series of tides at the location, and represent the influence of the moon, sun, depth of bay, offshore islands, etc. Once computed the factors for a location can be applied to past and future years. and are shared widely so anyone can perform tide calculations.\n\nAssuming the factors for a location are known, configuring the machine to compute tides for the location requires 2.5–4 hours. Predictions for a year’s tides at that location can then be produced in 8–15 hours. The calculations Tide-Predicting Machine No. 2 can perform in 1 day would require a person 125 days to perform by hand.\n\nAround 1915, the machine was used to produce annual tide tables for 70 major ports worldwide. Additional ports were added in later years.\n\nDuring World War II the USCGS produced annual tide tables for major ports four years in advance in case Old Brass Brains broke down or was sabotaged. The USCGS also provided tide predictions for a number of additional locations in the Pacific, including potential locations for amphibious invasions. Obtaining tide observations for those locations to support computation of the factors required for predictions was often a significant challenge.\n\nAround 1960 Old Brass Brains was modified to replace the hand crank with an electric motor and to add an automatic readout of heights and times. In 1965, the USCGS retired the Tide-Predicting Machine No. 2, 55 years after it entered service, and started performing its tide calculations with an electronic computer.\n\nThe National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) maintains Tide-Predicting Machine No. 2 in working condition. The machine is at NOAA’s facility in Silver Spring, Maryland. The public can occasionally view the machine during events such as the NOAA Open House.\n\nTide Predicting Machine No. 2 is based on the first accurate mathematical approach for predicting tides, which was developed around 1867 by Sir William Thomson (who later became Lord Kelvin) and later refined by Sir George Darwin. This approach, called “harmonic analysis,” approximates tide heights by a summation of cosine terms, each of which has a different frequency. The formula for sea height is represented as\n\ncontaining 10, 20 or even more trigonometric terms. formula_2 is the height of mean sea level. For each term formula_3, formula_4 is the amplitude of the term’s contribution to tide height above mean sea level, formula_5 determines the frequency of the term, formula_6 is the time, and formula_7 is the relative phase of the term. This is the equation computed by most tide-predicting machines, including Old Brass Brains which handles 37 such terms.\n\nThe frequencies formula_5 are determined from astronomical considerations, which were determined by Thomson and Darwin and have been almost universally used. For instance one speed represents the speed of a theoretical moon with a uniform speed in a circular orbit in the equatorial plane. Other components with their own speeds correct for the differences between the orbit of that theoretical moon and the real Moon. The coefficients formula_4 and formula_7 are determined by Fourier analysis of a time series of tide heights. This analysis can be performed with a record as short as two weeks but a 369-day sample is standard. The longer sample minimizes the errors introduced by wind storms, freshets, and other non-regular influences.\nTo compute those terms the USCGS designers incorporated the same \"slotted yoke crank\" approach for mechanically computing cosines as Thomson used, shown in the schematic (right). A rotating drive-wheel (\"crank\") is fitted with an off-center peg. A shaft with a horizontally-slotted section is free to move vertically up and down. The wheel's off-center peg is located in the slot. As a result, when the peg moves around with the wheel, it makes the shaft move up and down within limits. As a result of this arrangement when the drive-wheel rotates uniformly, say clockwise, the shaft moves sinusoidally up and down. The vertical position of the center of the slot, at any time formula_6, can then be expressed as formula_12, where formula_13 is the radial distance from the wheel's center to the peg, formula_14 is the rate at which the wheel turns (in radians per unit of time) and is determined by gears, and formula_15 is the starting phase angle of the peg, measured in radians from the 12 o'clock position to the angular position where the peg was at time zero. An operator adjusted the location of each pin based on the empirically computed parameters for a port’s tides. This arrangement makes a physical analog of just one term in the tide equation. Old Brass Brains computes 37 such terms.\n\nThe USCGS designers also adopted from the earlier British machines the approach of summing terms by passing a chain over and under pulleys attached to the vertically oscillating yokes. The amount of chain remaining after passing over and under pulleys indicated the sum of the terms. For example, a large value for a term would move its pulley further from a neutral position, deflecting the chain, and reducing the amount of excess chain remaining in system.\n\nOne side of Old Brass Brains is used to compute the height of the tide. A similar arrangement of components on the other side, but with cranks 90 degrees out of phase, represents the derivative with respect to time of the tide height formula. When the derivative is zero the time of high or low tide has been reached. An electrical circuit detects this condition and stops the machine so the operator can record the date, time, and tide height.\n\n"}
{"id": "1152734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1152734", "title": "Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt", "text": "Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt\n\nThe Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt (), also known as the Transvolcanic Belt and locally as the (\"Snowy Mountain Range\"), is a volcanic belt that covers central-southern Mexico. Several of its highest peaks have snow all year long, and during clear weather, they are visible to a large percentage of those who live on the many high plateaus from which these volcanoes rise.\n\nThe Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt spans across Central-Southern Mexico from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico between 18°30'N and 21°30'N, resting on the southern edge of the North American Plate.\nThis approximately 1000 kilometer long, 90–230 km broad structure is an east-west, active, continental volcanic arc; encompassing an area of approximately 160,000 km. Over several million years, the subduction of the Rivera and Cocos plates beneath the North American Plate along the northern end of the Middle America Trench formed the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. \nThe Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt is a unique volcanic belt; it is not parallel to the Middle American Trench, and many of the main stratovolcanoes are positioned obliquely to the general position of the arc. In addition to the physiographic complexities, igneous compositions vary—dominant subduction related products contrast with intraplate geo-chemical signatures. The many intriguing aspects of the belt has spurred several hypotheses based on a typical subduction scenario; Intra-plate leaky transform faults, mantle plumes, continental rifting, and jump of the eastward Pacific Rise. These features are partially related to the reactivation of early fault systems during the Trans-Mexican Volcanic belt's evolution. The main brittle fault system's geometry, kinematics, and age define a complex array of what could be multiple factors affecting the deformation of the belt. It exhibits many volcanic features, not limited to large stratovolcanoes, including monogenetic volcano cones, shield volcanoes, lava dome complexes, and major calderas.\n\nPrior to the formation of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt, an older, but related volcanic belt, the Sierra Madre Occidental occupied the area. Resuming in the Eocene, post-Laramide deformation, subduction related volcanism formed the Sierra Madre Occidental silic volcanic arc at a paleo-subduction zone off the coast of Baja California, before the peninsula rifted away. \nFrom the Late Eocene to the Middle Miocene, counterclockwise rotation of the volcanic arc transitioned the once active Sierra Madre Occidental to a now active Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. By the Middle Miocene, the transition from the silicic to more mafic compositions was complete, and can be considered the beginning of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. Due to the orthogonal orientation of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt in relation to the trend of Mexican tectonic provinces, its Pre-Cretaceous basement is highly heterogeneous. The Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt east of 101°W rests upon Precambrian terranes, assembled into the Oaxaquia microcontinent and on the Paleozoic Mixteco terrane. West of 101°W, the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt resides on top of the Guerro composite terrane - a make up of Jurassic to Cretaceous marine marginal arcs, which are built on Triassic - Early Jurassic siliclastic turbidites. Assemblage of these basement rocks results with a thickness of 50–55 km east of 101°W and 35–40 km west of 101°W.\n\nThe subducting plates originated from the breakup of the Farallon Plate at approximately 23 Ma, which created two plates at equatorial latitudes, the Cocos Plate and southern Nazca Plate. The Rivera Plate was the last fragment detached from the Cocos Plate, becoming a microplate at around 10 Ma. This small plate is bounded by the Rivera fracture zone, the East Pacific Rise, the Tamayo fracture zone, and the Middle American Trench. The larger Cocos Plate is bordered by the North American Plate (NAM) and the Caribbean Plate to the northeast, the Pacific Plate to the west, and to the south by the Nazca Plate. The Cocos and Rivera are relatively young oceanic plates (25 and 10 Ma) that are subducting along the Middle American Trench at different convergence rates (Rivera = ~30 mm/yr and the Cocos = ~ 50–90 mm/yr). Commonly found subduction related rocks such as calc-alkaline rocks volumetrically occupy a majority of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt but smaller volumes of intraplate-like lavas, potassium rich rocks, and adakites are associated with the area. Middle Miocene adakitic (more felsic) rocks are found furthest from the trench and along the volcanic front of the central Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt during the Pliocene-Quaternary. It has been suggested that slab melting contributed to the adakitic imprint on the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt, prompted by the prolonged flat subduction of the Cocos Plate.\n\n\nFlat slab subduction can commonly be explained by oceanic plateau subduction and a fast overriding plate. Central Mexico's flat subduction is not evident. The Trans-Mexican Volcanic belt's flat slab is confined between ~101°W and 96°W; this region may be explained by thicker continental crust. Existence of thick strong crust combined with decreasing fluid input contributed to narrowing the asthenospheric wedge, increasing viscosity and suction forces, which led to flat subduction—preventing the oceanic plate from entering the mantle.\n\nFrom the west, the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt runs from Colima and Jalisco east through northern Michoacán, southern Guanajuato, southern Querétaro, México State, southern Hidalgo, the Distrito Federal, northern Morelos, Puebla, and Tlaxcala, to central Veracruz.\n\nThe Mexican Plateau lies to the north, bounded by the Sierra Madre Occidental to the west and Sierra Madre Oriental to the east. The Cofre de Perote and Pico de Orizaba volcanoes, in Puebla and Veracruz, mark the meeting of the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt with the Sierra Madre Oriental. To the south, the basin of the Balsas River lies between the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt and the Sierra Madre del Sur. This area is also a distinct physiographic province of the larger Sierra Madre System physiographic division.\n\nThe highest point, also the highest point in Mexico, is Pico de Orizaba () also known as Citlaltépetl, located at . This, and several of the other high peaks, are active or dormant volcanoes.\n\nOther notable volcanoes in the range include (from west to east) Nevado de Colima (), Parícutin (), Nevado de Toluca (), Popocatépetl (), Iztaccíhuatl (), Matlalcueitl () Cofre de Perote () and Sierra Negra, a companion of the Pico de Orizaba ().\n\nThe mountains are home to the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt pine-oak forests, one of the Mesoamerican pine-oak forests sub-ecoregions.\n\nThe Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt has many endemic species, including the Transvolcanic jay (\"Aphelocoma ultramarina\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20913863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20913863", "title": "Zogam", "text": "Zogam\n\nZogam (or Land of Zo People) known as Chin State, Lushai Hills, Kuki Hills, lies in the northwest corner of the Mainland Southeast Asia landmass. This is the traditional homeland of the Zo people or Zomi who lived in this area before the colonial period under British rulership.\n\nZogam is bounded in the East by Burma, North by India and in the West and South by Bangladesh. The country is made up of many hill ranges, and is known for its rich bio-diversity. Its territory, approximately in size, in Myanmar, India and Bangladesh.\n\nIt does not include Asho settlements in Lower Burma and Masho settlements in the Arakan (Burma). The area extends from latitude 25° 30' North in the Somra tracts facing Mount Saramati, and in Nagaland across the Namtakik River and the North Cachar Hills, to about 20° 30' North Latitude. The longitudinal extension is between 92° 10' East and 94° 20' east. The North-South length of the Zoram is roughly and East-West is generally about wide.\n\nThe land occupied by the majority of the Zo people extends from a latitude of about 25 degrees 30 minutes North in the Somra Tracts facing Mt. Saramati, and in Nagaland across the Namtaleik River and the North Cachar Hills, to about 20 degrees 30 minutes North.\n\nThe Asho live further south of the Arakan Yomas, Irrawaddy valleys and Pegu Yomas (below Procne and Sandaway). All these areas fall between 92 degrees 10 minutes East and 94 degrees 20 minutes East. The north-south length of the Zo country is roughly\n\nThe majority of the people occupy the Indo-Burman ranges, a series of parallel mountain chains trending north-south along the India-Burma boundary. The mountain ranges are a continuation of the Naga and Patkoi hills, extending as far south as Arakan Yomas.\n\nFast Zogam lies in the eastern part of these mountains and is higher than the western mountains (West Zogam or Mizoram).\n\nThe highest peaks in these ranges are Ngulluvum, Innbuk. Thuamvum (Kennedy peak), Lentlang, Kharantlang, Rungtlang, and Arterawttlang (Mt. Victoria), which is the highest peak in Zo country at . The other peaks are in average about high. In West Zogam the highest peak is Phawngpui (Blue Mountain), which is . At the north and south ends of Zo country the land is less rugged and rises from .\n\nThe capital of West Zogam, Aizawl, lies at above sea level, whereas Tiddim (Tedim), the capital of East Zogam, is at . The valleys between ranges are mostly v-shaped gorges, and there are very few flat areas to serve as, agricultural land. Because the elevations can vary quite extensively temperatures also vary greatly. In the valleys of the larger rivers, such as the Run or Manipur Rivers, the climate is sub-tropical.\n\n away, however, at an elevation of and at the top of mountain ranges, the climate is rather moderate. The climate is \"monsoon\" and rain falls from May to October. Average rainfall for the year is between . Average yearly rain in Aizawl is , Lunglei , Tedim , and Kanpetlet . In one year Tedim had 118 rainy days and Kanpetlet 127 days. Summer temperatures range between 17 and 29 °C, and winter temperatures are between 3 and 24 °C. Some places, like the town of Tedim, are chilly in winter and temperatures can drop below the freezing point in the night and frost form on the grass. Snow falls very rarely, and when it does the people call \"the mountain has vomited\".\n\nOne Zo folksong delineates the area of Zogam as follows:\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\nTranslation:\n\nThis old folk song tells of the area of the Zomi ancestral homeland, for Penlehpi is a Burmese word for the Bay of Bengal and Kangtui is identified with Tuikang (Chindwin River).\n\nPreferred book: \"The Untold Story of Zomi\" (T. Zokhai, 2018).\n\nZogam is within the land inhabited by the Zo State in Myanmar and further the land inhabited by the Zomi in India and Bangladesh. Chinland is the founding name for the whole Zomi inhabited areas of land spread across three political and separate country/international boundaries. Lairam is another name used by the townships the Southern Chin State in Myanmar. Zogam tributary tribes who too called their land according to their own dialects. And all of them put together makes up a Greater Chinmi or Zomi(i.e. Zo People). Zogam covers\nTherefore, Zogam is an indigenous identity of the Chin peoples together with the Kukis (Thado), Lushai (Lusei or Mizo), Pawi, Khalkha, Phalam and all Chinmi. Chinland (Zoram) thus equals to all the lands inhabited by these hill tribes collectively known as Chin people (Zomi), and they comprise the Laimi, Tedimmi, Mara, Khumi, Zophei, Senthang, Lautu, Zotung, Manipur, Thado, the Zou, Simte, Paite, Milhiem and other tributary tribes.\n\n\n"}
