{"id": "2784732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784732", "title": "1998 United States Capitol shooting incident", "text": "1998 United States Capitol shooting incident\n\nThe 1998 United States Capitol shooting incident was an attack on July 24, 1998, which led to the deaths of two United States Capitol Police officers. Officer Jacob Chestnut and Detective John Gibson were killed when Russell Eugene Weston, Jr., entered the Capitol and opened fire. Chestnut was killed instantly and Gibson died during surgery at George Washington University Hospital. Weston's exact motives are unknown, but he has a mental disorder and maintains a strong distrust of the federal government. He remains in a mental institution due to paranoid schizophrenia and has yet to be tried in court.\n\nOn the day of shooting, Officer Chestnut and another officer were assigned to operate the X-ray machine and magnetometer at the Document Door entrance located on the East Front of the Capitol, which was open only to Members of Congress and their staff. Detective Gibson was assigned to the dignitary protection detail of Rep. Tom DeLay (R-TX) and was in his suite of offices near this door. Weston, armed with a .38 caliber Smith & Wesson six-shot revolver, entered the Document Door at 3:40 p.m. At the same time, Officer Chestnut was providing directions to a tourist and his son while his partner escorted another tourist towards the restroom. Weston reportedly walked around the metal detector just inside the entrance; Chestnut requested he go back through the detector. Weston suddenly produced the gun and without warning, shot Chestnut in the back of the head at point-blank range. According to witnesses, he turned down a short corridor and pushed through a door which leads to a group of offices used by senior Republican representatives including then Majority Whip Tom DeLay and Representative Dennis Hastert, future Speaker of the House and a close protégé of then Speaker Newt Gingrich.\n\nDetective Gibson, who was in plainclothes, was shot after the suspect entered DeLay's office. Despite being mortally wounded, Detective Gibson was able to return fire and wound the suspect, who was apprehended in that office. A female tourist was grazed by bullets on her shoulder and face. She was treated for her injuries and released. Also injured was USCP Officer Douglas McMillian. Future Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tennessee, a heart surgeon who had been presiding on the Senate floor just before the shooting, resuscitated the gunman and accompanied him to D.C. General Hospital.\n\nOfficers Chestnut and Gibson were the two people killed in the attack. Following the shooting, both officers received the tribute of lying in honor in the United States Capitol rotunda. They were the first police officers, and Chestnut was the first African American, to receive the honor.\n\nIn 1999, Weston was found incompetent to stand trial due to mental illness as he was a man with schizophrenia who stopped taking his medication. A judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ordered that he be treated with antipsychotic medication without his consent in 2001, and the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the decision. In 2004, the court determined that Weston still was not competent to be tried, despite ongoing treatment, and suspended but did not dismiss the criminal charges against him. Weston was known to the United States Secret Service prior to the incident as a person who had threatened the President of the United States.\n\nThe shooting led to the creation of the United States Capitol Police Memorial Fund, a nonprofit organization managed by the Capitol Police Board which provides funds for the families of Chestnut and Gibson. In November 2005, the fund was expanded to include the family of Sgt. Christopher Eney, a USCP officer killed during a training accident in 1984. The shooting was cited as one reason for the development of the Capitol Visitors Center. The legislation authorizing the construction of the facility was introduced by Washington, D.C. Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton and was entitled the \"Jacob Joseph Chestnut-John Michael Gibson United States Capitol Visitor Center Act of 1998\". The door where Weston entered was renamed in honor of the two officers, from the Document Door to the Chestnut-Gibson Memorial Door.\n\nOn March 6, 2008, Weston filed a motion requesting a hearing on his mental status. The hearing was held on May 6 with Weston appearing via teleconference from the Federal Medical Center, Butner with his public defender Jane Pierce and two witnesses he selected, a psychologist and vocational rehabilitation specialist. Federal judge Earl Britt denied Weston's request to be released from the federal facility, arguing that he failed to present enough evidence that he no longer needed to be committed. During the hearing defense psychologist Holly Rogers stated that, \"sometimes there are individuals who simply do not respond to medication\", implying that Weston was not ready for release. Had Weston been released from the facility, it would have made it possible for him to be taken to Washington, D.C. to stand trial for the murders of Gibson and Chestnut.\n\nDetective John Michael Gibson (March 29, 1956 – July 24, 1998) was a United States Capitol Police officer assigned to the dignitary protection detail of Congressman Tom DeLay. He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery after lying in honor with Chestnut in the Capitol rotunda. Detective Gibson had served with the agency for 18 years. He was a native of Massachusetts who married the niece of Representative Joe Moakley, Democrat of Massachusetts. He had three children, a 17-year-old daughter and two boys, ages 15 and 14.\nGrowing up in New England, Det. Gibson was a lifelong Boston Red Sox fan, and on August 11, 1998, his beloved team had a moment of silence in his honor prior to a game with the Kansas City Royals.\n\nOfficer Jacob Joseph Chestnut (April 28, 1940 – July 24, 1998), was the first African American to lie in honor at the Capitol. Chestnut is buried in Arlington National Cemetery. His funeral included a speech by President Bill Clinton and a fly-over by military jets in a missing man formation. A United States Post Office located in Fort Washington, Maryland has been renamed in their honor.\n\nRussell Eugene Weston, Jr. (born December 28, 1956), also known as Rusty, grew up in Valmeyer, Illinois. Weston attended Valmeyer High School, the only high school in a town of 900 people. Shortly after graduating from high school in 1974, Weston moved to Rimini, Montana, rarely returning to Valmeyer. The only attempt his high school classmates made at inviting him to a class reunion was returned with obscenities written across it. Many of Weston's Montana neighbors had disliked him, and often ignored him. They considered him to be unusual, and sometimes eccentric. Weston had once thought that his neighbor was using his television satellite dish to spy on his actions and believed Navy SEALs were hiding in his cornfield.\n\nHe was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia six years before the shooting and spent fifty-three days in a mental hospital after threatening a Montana resident. He was released after testing as being of no danger to himself or anyone else. Eighteen months before the shooting, he moved back to Valmeyer from Montana. Once home, he was known to compulsively hack at trees which filled his back yard following the Mississippi River floods of 1993. There was so much downed timber on his family's homestead that they had to ask him to stop cutting at trees. Two days prior to the Capitol shooting, at his grandmother's insistence to do something about nearby cats which were becoming a nuisance, Weston shot and killed 14 cats with a single-barreled shotgun, leaving several in a bucket and burying the rest.\n\nFollowing the Capitol shooting, Weston was transferred to a psychiatric center at Butner Federal Correctional Institution in Butner, North Carolina. In an interview with a court-appointed psychiatrist he explained that he stormed the Capitol to prevent the United States from being annihilated by disease and legions of cannibals.\n\nHe has never been charged with any crime due to apparent mental inculpability. One contentious issue of Weston's incarceration is that of forced medication. Weston has thus far refused to take any medications voluntarily. His lawyers helped enable this, in order to protect him from the death penalty. In May 2001, a federal judge authorized doctors to treat Weston involuntarily. A panel from a federal appeals court ruled in July 2001 that Weston could be forced to take the drugs which he was forced to do for 120 days. He remains in the Butner facility indefinitely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32093800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32093800", "title": "Abd al-Wahid II", "text": "Abd al-Wahid II\n\nAbu Muhammad ar-Rashid Abd al-Wahid (; Abū Muḥammad Ar-Rashīd `Abd al-Wāḥid ibn Al-Mā'mūn; died 4 December 1242) was an Almohad rival caliph who reigned from 1232 until his death.\n\nAbd al-Wahid succeeded his father Idris I, who had died while marching against Yahya, who was in control of the capital Marrakesh. His reign marked the beginning of the final fragmentation of the Almohad empire. He was not able to oust Yahya from Marrakesh, while the Emir of Tlemcen become independent from 1236 (founding the Zayyanid dynasty), following the example of the Hafsid ruler Abu Zakariya Yahya in Tunisia.\n\nIn 1242 he ordered his governor to fight another secession, that of the Marinid Abu Yahya ibn Abd al-Haqq, who had captured Fes. However, Abd al-Wahid was discovered drowned in a pool (or he died from a fall) in his palace in December of the same year. He was succeeded by his brother Abu al-Hasan as-Said al-Mutadid.\n\n"}
{"id": "58058059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58058059", "title": "Abdul Attah", "text": "Abdul Attah\n\nAbdulazeez Attah (1920–1972) was a Nigerian administrator who was the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Finance in 1967 and later rose to become Head of Service and Secretary to the Federal Military Government in 1970. As Permanent Secretary in the Finance Ministry, he was involved in tax negotiations with oil majors during the months preceding the Civil war and loan agreements with multilateral organizations.\n\nAttah was born to the family of Ibrahim the Attah of Ebiraland. He was educated at Achimota College and later studied politics, philosophy and economics at Balliol College. Upon completion of studies, he returned to Nigeria and joined the civil service as an administrative cadet officer, he served in Southeastern areas of Nigeria working at Calabar, Southern Cameroons, Opobo and Ikot Ekpene. \n\nHe was married to the artist Afi Ekong.\n"}
{"id": "29612545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29612545", "title": "Ada of Huntingdon", "text": "Ada of Huntingdon\n\nAda of Huntingdon ( – after 1206) was a Scottish noblewoman and Countess of Holland by marriage to Floris III, Count of Holland.\n\nAda was born in Scotland, the daughter of Henry of Huntingdon (1114–1152) and Ada de Warenne (died ). Henry was the son of King David I of Scotland and Maud, Countess of Huntingdon, and Ada's siblings include the Scottish kings Malcolm IV, William the Lion, and David of Scotland, Earl of Huntingdon.\n\nIn 1162 she was asked for her hand in marriage to Floris III, Count of Holland (–1190) by the Abbot of Egmond, Holland. Together, the Abbot and Ada traveled back to Holland, where the wedding ceremony occurred, probably in Egmond, on 28 August 1162. Ada received the County of Ross in the Scottish Highlands as a wedding gift.\n\nAda was not actively involved in the governance of the County of Holland but was occasionally mentioned in documents. Floris, her husband was a loyal ally of the Holy Roman Emperor, Frederick I, and often went with him into battle. Dutch chronicler Melis Stoke states that she supported her son in the war with William of Cleves during the War of Succession. In addition, Ada is known to have read Latin. Ada died after 1206 and was probably buried in the Abbey of Middelburg, to which she had already made donations of £64.\n\nAda and Floris had 8 or 10 children, of whom some died young\n\n\nAda's brother, David of Scotland, Earl of Huntingdon, had a daughter, Ada, who was the mother of Henry de Hastings, 1st Baron Hastings.\n\nHenry de Hastings was the only son of Sir Henry de Hastings and Ada of Huntingdon, one of four daughters of David of Scotland, 8th Earl of Huntingdon and Maud of Chester. Henry married Joan de Cantilupe, daughter of William III de Cantilupe and Eva de Braose.\n\n"}
{"id": "269945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=269945", "title": "American paddlefish", "text": "American paddlefish\n\nThe American paddlefish (\"Polyodon spathula\") is a species of basal ray-finned fish closely related to sturgeons in the order Acipenseriformes. Fossil records of paddlefish date back over 300million years, nearly 50million years before dinosaurs first appeared. American paddlefish are smooth-skinned freshwater fish commonly called paddlefish, but are also referred to as Mississippi paddlefish, spoon-billed cats, or spoonbills. They are one of only two extant species in the paddlefish family, Polyodontidae. The other is the critically endangered Chinese paddlefish (\"Psephurus gladius\") endemic to the Yangtze River basin in China. American paddlefish are often referred to as primitive fish, or relict species because they retain some morphological characteristics of their early ancestors, including a skeleton that is almost entirely cartilaginous, a paddle-shaped rostrum (snout) that extends nearly one-third their body length, and a heterocercal tail or caudal fin, much like that of sharks. American paddlefish are a highly derived fish because they have evolved with adaptations such as filter feeding. Their rostrum and cranium are covered with tens of thousands of sensory receptors for locating swarms of zooplankton, which is their primary food source.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are native to the Mississippi River basin and once moved freely under the relatively natural, unaltered conditions that existed prior to the early 1900s. They commonly inhabited large, free-flowing rivers, braided channels, backwaters, and oxbow lakes throughout the Mississippi River drainage basin, and adjacent Gulf drainages. Their peripheral range extended into the Great Lakes, with occurrences in Lake Huron and Lake Helen in Canada until about 90 years ago. American paddlefish populations have declined dramatically primarily because of overfishing, habitat destruction, and pollution. Poaching has also been a contributing factor to their decline and will continue to be as long as the demand for caviar remains strong. Naturally occurring American paddlefish populations have been extirpated from most of their peripheral range, as well as from New York, Maryland, Virginia, and Pennsylvania. The current range of American paddlefish has been reduced to the Mississippi and Missouri River tributaries and Mobile Bay drainage basin. They are currently found in twenty-two states in the U.S., and those populations are protected under state, federal and international laws.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are closely related to sturgeons in the order Acipenseriformes, an order of basal ray-finned fishes that includes sturgeon and paddlefish, several species of which are now extinct. Paddlefish are among the oldest of fishes as evidenced in the fossil record which dates their first appearance approximately 300 to 400million years ago, almost 50million years before the dinosaurs. Fossils of a second extinct species, \"P. tuberculata\", which date back approximately 60million years ago, were found in the Lower Paleocene Tullock Formation in Montana.\n\nIn 1797, French naturalist Bernard Germain de Lacépède established the genus \"Polyodon\" for paddlefish, which today includes a single extant species, \"Polyodon spathula\". Lacépède disagreed with Pierre Joseph Bonnaterre's description in \"Tableau encyclopédique et méthodique\" (1788), which suggested paddlefish were a species of shark. Lacépède noted, \"The country and habits of this fish are still unknown.\" When Lacépède established the binomial, \"Polydon feuille\", he was unaware the species had already been named in 1772 by taxonomist, Johann Julius Walbaum, who described paddlefish as \"Squalus spathula\". As a result of Lacépède's inadvertent double naming, \"Polyodon spathula\" became the preferred scientific name of American paddlefish, and \"Squalus spathula\" became the synonym as one of two names applied to the group. Walbaum, 1792, is recognized and cited as the authority.\n\nThe family Polyodontidae comprises five known taxa; three extinct taxa from western North America, and two extant taxa including the American paddlefish (\"Polyodon spathula\") native to the Mississippi River Basin in the United States, and the critically endangered Chinese paddlefish (\"Psephurus glades\") endemic to the Yangtze River Basin in China. American paddlefish are the only living species in the genus \"Polyodon\". They are often referred to as primitive fish, or relict species, because of morphological characteristics they retain from some of their early ancestors as evidenced in the fossil record which dates them back to the Late Cretaceous, 70 to 75million years ago. Some of their primitive characteristics include a skeleton composed primarily of cartilage, and a deeply forked heterocercal caudal fin similar to that of sharks, although they are not closely related.\n\nFossil paddlefishes with recognizable rostrums date from the Upper Cretaceous and Paleocene periods 65million years ago. An elongated rostrum is a morphological characteristic of Polyodontidae, but only the genus \"Polyodon\" (\"P. spathula\" and the extinct \"P. tuberculata\") have characteristics adapted specifically for filter feeding, including the jaw, gill arches, and cranium. The gill rakers of American paddlefish are composed of extensive comb-like filaments believed to have inspired the etymology of the genus name, \"Polyodon\", a Greek compound word meaning \"many toothed\". Adult American paddlefish are actually toothless, although numerous small teeth less than were found in a juvenile paddlefish measuring . \"Spathula\" references the elongated, paddle shaped snout or rostrum. Compared to Chinese paddlefish and fossil genera, American paddlefish (and by extension, a fossil relative, \"P. tuberculata\") are considered to be a highly derived species because of their novel adaptations.\n\nChinese paddlefish are the closest extant relative of American paddlefish. They are currently listed as critically endangered on the IUCN Red List. Several reports have suggested that Chinese paddlefish may now be extinct. The primary reasons for their decline are similar to those of American paddlefish and include overfishing, the construction of dams, and destruction of habitat. Unlike the planktivorous American paddlefish, Chinese paddlefish are strong swimmers, grow larger, and are opportunistic piscivores that feed on small fishes and crustaceans. Some distinct morphological differences of Chinese paddlefish include a narrower, sword-like rostrum, and a protrusible mouth. They also have fewer, thicker gill rakers than American paddlefish. The last confirmed sighting of a live Chinese paddlefish was made on the Yangtzee River on January 24, 2003. From 2006 to 2008, scientists conducted surveys in an effort to locate the fish. They used several boats, deployed 4762 setlines, 111 anchored setlines and 950 drift nets covering on the upper Yangtze River, most of which lies within the protected area of the Upper Yangtze National Nature Reserve. They did not catch a single fish. They also used hydroacoustic equipment to monitor active sound in water (sonar), but were unable to confirm the presence of paddlefish.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are among the largest and longest-lived freshwater fishes in North America. They have a shark-like body, average in length, weigh , and can live in excess of thirty years. For most populations the median age is five to eight years and the maximum age is fourteen to eighteen years. The age of American paddlefish is best determined by dentary studies, a process which usually occurs on fish harvested during snagging season, a popular sport fishing activity in certain parts of the U.S. The dentary is removed from the lower jawbone, cleaned of any remaining soft tissue, and cross-sectioned to expose the annual rings. The dentary rings are counted in much the same way a tree is aged. Dentary studies suggest that some individuals can live 60 years or longer, and that females typically live longer and grow larger than males.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are smooth-skinned and almost entirely cartilaginous. Their eyes are small and directed laterally. They have a large, tapering operculum flap, a large mouth, and a flat, paddle-shaped rostrum that measures approximately one-third of their body length. During the initial stages of development from embryo to hatchling, American paddlefish have no rostrum. It begins to form shortly after hatching. The rostrum is an extension of the cranium, not of the upper and lower jaws or olfactory system as with the long snouts of other fishes. Other distinguishing characteristics include a deeply forked heterocercal caudal fin and dull coloration, often with mottling, ranging from bluish gray to black dorsally grading to a whitish underbelly.\n\nScientists began to debate the function of the American paddlefish's rostrum when the species was described in the late 1700s. They had once believed it was used to excavate bottom substrate or functioned as a balancing mechanism and navigational aid. However, laboratory experiments in 1993 that utilized advanced technology in the field of electron microscopy have established conclusively that the rostrum of American paddlefish is covered with tens of thousands of sensory receptors. These receptors are morphologically similar to the ampullae of Lorenzini of sharks and rays, and are indeed passive ampullary-type electroreceptors used by American paddlefish to detect plankton. Clusters of electroreceptors also cover the head and operculum flaps. The American paddlefish's diet consists primarily of zooplankton. Their electroreceptors can detect weak electrical fields, which signal not only the presence of zooplankton, but also the individual feeding and swimming movements of zooplankton appendages. When a swarm of zooplankton is detected, the paddlefish swims forward continuously with their mouth wide open, forcing water over the gill rakers to filter out prey. Such feeding behavior is considered ram suspension-feeding. Further research has indicated that their electroreceptors may also serve as a navigational aid for obstacle avoidance.\n\nAmerican paddlefish have small undeveloped eyes that are directed laterally. Unlike most fishes, American paddlefish hardly respond to overhead shadows or changes in illumination. Electroreception appears to have largely replaced vision as a primary sensory modality, which indicates a reliance on electroreceptors for detecting prey. However, the rostrum is not their only means of food detection. Some reports suggest a damaged rostrum would render American paddlefish less capable of foraging efficiently to maintain good health, but laboratory experiments and field research indicate otherwise. As well as electroreceptors on the rostrum, American paddlefish have sensory pores covering nearly half of the skin surface extending from the rostrum to the top of the head down to the tips of the operculum flaps. Studies have indicated that American paddlefish with damaged or abbreviated rostrums are still able to forage and maintain good health.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are long-lived, sexually late maturing pelagic fish. Females do not begin spawning until they are seven to ten years old, some as late as sixteen to eighteen years old. Females do not spawn every year, rather they spawn every second or third year. Males spawn more frequently, usually every year or every other year beginning around age seven, some as late as nine or ten years of age.\n\nAmerican paddlefish begin their upstream spawning migration sometime during early spring; some begin in late fall. They spawn on silt-free gravel bars that would otherwise be exposed to air or covered by very shallow water were it not for the rises in the river from snow melt and annual spring rains that cause flooding. Although availability of preferred spawning habitat is essential, there are three precise environmental events that must occur before American paddlefish will spawn. The water temperature must be from ; the lengthened photoperiod which occurs in spring triggers biological and behavioral processes that are dependent on increasing day length; and there must be a proper rise and flow in the river before a successful spawn can occur. Historically, American paddlefish did not spawn every year because the precise environmental events only occurred once every 4 or 5 years.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are broadcast spawners, also referred to as mass spawners or synchronous spawners. Gravid females release their eggs into the water over bare rocks or gravel at the same time males release their sperm. Fertilization occurs externally. The eggs become sticky after they are released into the water and will attach to the bottom substrate. Incubation varies depending on water temperature, but in water the eggs will hatch into larval fish in about seven days. After hatching, the larval fish drift downstream into areas of low flow velocity where they forage on zooplankton.\n\nYoung American paddlefish are poor swimmers which makes them susceptible to predation. Therefore, rapid first-year growth is important to their survival. Fry can grow about per week, and by late July the fingerlings are around long. Their rate of growth is variable and highly dependent on food abundance. Higher growth rates occur in areas where food is not limited. The feeding behavior of fingerlings is quite different from that of older juveniles and adults. They capture individual plankton one by one, which requires detection and location of individual \"Daphnia\" on approach, followed by an intercept maneuver to capture the selected prey. By late September fingerlings have developed into juveniles, and are around long. After the 1st year their growth rate slows and is highly variable. Studies indicate that by age 5 their growth rate averages around per year depending on the abundance of food and other environmental influences.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are highly mobile and well adapted to living in rivers. They inhabit many types of riverine habitats throughout much of the Mississippi Valley and adjacent Gulf slope drainages. They occur most frequently in deeper, low current areas such as side channels, oxbows, backwater lakes, bayous, and tailwaters below dams. They have been observed to move more than in a river system.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are endemic to the Mississippi River Basin, historically occurring from the Missouri and Yellowstone rivers in the northwest to the Ohio and Allegheny rivers of the northeast; the headwaters of the Mississippi River south to its mouth, from the San Jacinto River in the southwest to the Tombigbee and Alabama rivers of the southeast. They were extirpated from New York, Maryland and Pennsylvania, as well as from much of their peripheral range in the Great Lakes region, including Lake Huron and Lake Helen in Canada. In 1991, Pennsylvania implemented a reintroduction program utilizing hatchery-reared American paddlefish in an effort to establish self-sustaining populations in the upper Ohio and lower Allegheny rivers. In 1998, New York initiated a stocking program upstream in the Allegheny Reservoir above Kinzua Dam, and a second stocking in 2006 in Conewango Creek, a relatively unaltered section of their historic range. Reports of free ranging adults captured by gill nets have since been documented in Pennsylvania and New York, but there is no evidence of natural reproduction. They are currently found in 22 states in the US, and are protected under state and federal laws. There are 13 states that allow commercial or sport fishing for American paddlefish.\n\nThe artificial propagation of American paddlefish began with the efforts of the Missouri Department of Conservation during the early 1960s, and focused primarily on maintenance of the sport fishery. However, it was the growing importance of American paddlefish for their meat and roe that became the catalyst for further development of culture techniques for aquaculture in the United States. Artificial propagation requires broodstock which, because of the late sexual maturation of American paddlefish, are initially obtained from the wild and brought into a hatchery environment. The fish are injected with LH-RH hormone to stimulate spawning. The number of eggs a female may produce depends on the size of the fish and can range anywhere from 70,000–300,000 eggs. Unlike most teleosts, the oviduct branches of American paddlefish and sturgeons are not directly attached to the ovaries; rather, they open dorsally into the body cavity. To determine the status of progression toward maturation, ova staging is performed. The process begins with a minor procedure that involves a small abdominal incision from which to extract a few sample oocytes. The oocytes are boiled in water for a few minutes until the yolk is hardened, and then they are cut in half to expose the nucleus. The exposed nucleus is examined under a microscope to determine stage of maturity.\n\nOnce maturation is confirmed, one of three procedures is used to extract the eggs from a female paddlefish. The three procedures are (1) the traditional hand-stripping method, considered to be time consuming and laborious; (2) Caesarean section, a relatively quick surgical method of extracting eggs through a abdominal incision; considered faster than hand stripping, suturing can be time consuming and the incision may result in muscular stress and poor suture retention which lowers survival rate; and (3) MIST, (minimally invasive surgical technique) which is the fastest of the three procedures because it requires less handling of the fish and eliminates the need for suturing. A small internal incision is made in the dorsal area of the oviduct, which allows direct stripping of eggs from the body cavity through the gonopore bypassing the oviductal funnels.\n\nA spermiating male indicates successful production of mature spermatozoa which results in the release of large volumes of milt over the course of three to four days. Milt is collected by inserting a short plastic tube with syringe attached into the urogenital opening of the male and applying light suction with the syringe to draw the milt. The collected milt is diluted in water just prior to adding it to the eggs and the combination is gently stirred for about a minute to achieve fertilization. Fertilized eggs are adhesive and demersal, therefore if incubation is to take place in a flow-through hatching jar, the eggs must be treated to prevent clumping. Incubation usually takes anywhere from five to twelve days.\n\nAdvancements in biotechnology have created a global commercial market for the polyculture of American paddlefish. In 1970, American paddlefish were stocked in several rivers in Europe and Asia. Introduction began when five thousand hatched larvae from Missouri hatcheries in the United States were exported to the former USSR for aquacultural utilization. Reproduction was successful in 1988 and 1989, and resulted in the exportation of juveniles to Romania and Hungary. American paddlefish are now being raised in Ukraine, Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, and the Plovdiv and Vidin regions in Bulgaria. In May 2006, specimens of different sizes and weights were caught by professional fisherman near Prahovo in the Serbian part of the Danube River.\n\nIn 1988, fertilized American paddlefish eggs and larvae from Missouri hatcheries were first introduced into China. Since that time, China imports approximately 4.5million fertilized eggs and larvae every year from hatcheries in Russia and the United States. Some American paddlefish are polycultured in carp ponds and sold to restaurants while others are cultured for brood stock and caviar production. China has also exported American paddlefish to Cuba, where they are farmed for caviar production.\n\nAmerican paddlefish are a popular sport fish where their populations are sufficient to allow such activity. Areas where there are no self-sustaining populations rely on state and federal restocking programs to maintain a viable fishery. A 2009 report includes the following states as allowing American paddlefish sport fishing per their respective state and federal regulations: Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Montana, South Dakota and Tennessee. Since American paddlefish are filter-feeders, they will not take bait or lures, and must be caught by snagging. The official state record in Kansas is a American paddlefish snagged in 2004; Montana, a American paddlefish snagged in 1973; and in North Dakota, a American paddlefish snagged in 2010. The largest American paddlefish on record was captured in West Okoboji Lake, Iowa in 1916 by a spear fisherman, and measured long, and weighed an estimated .\n\nAmerican paddlefish populations have declined dramatically, primarily as a result of overfishing and habitat destruction. In 2004 they were listed as Vulnerable (VU A3de ver 3.1) on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. They are currently proposed for listing as VU 3de throughout their range as the result of a U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service assessment. The assessment concluded that \"an overall population size reduction of at least 30% may occur within the next 10 years or three generations due to actual or potential levels of exploitation and the effects of introduced taxa, pollutants, competitors or parasites.\" American paddlefish are filter-feeding pelagic fish that require large, free-flowing rivers with braided channels, backwater areas, oxbow lakes that are rich in zooplankton, and gravel bars for spawning. Series of dams on rivers such as those constructed on the Missouri River have impounded large populations of American paddlefish, and blocked their upstream migration to spawning shoals. Channelization and groynes or wing dykes have caused the narrowing of rivers and altered flow, destroying crucial spawning and nursery habitat. As a result, most impounded populations are not self-sustaining and must be stocked to maintain a viable sport fishery.\n\nZebra mussel infestations in the Mississippi River, Great Lakes and other Midwest rivers are also negatively affecting American paddlefish populations. Zebra mussels are an invasive species well adapted for explosive population growth as a result of high rates of fecundity and recruitment. As filter feeders, zebra mussels rely on plankton and can filter significant amounts of phytoplankton and zooplankton from the water, altering the availability of an important food source for paddlefish and native unionidae. A few days after the fertilization of zebra mussel eggs, a microscopic larva emerges called a veliger. During this initial stage of development, which usually lasts a few weeks, veligers are able to swim freely in the water column with other microscopic animals comprising zooplankton. Veligers are poor swimmers, making them susceptible to predation by any animal that feeds on zooplankton. However, natural predation of zebra mussels at any stage of development has not made a significant contribution to the long-term reduction of zebra mussel populations.\n\nPoaching has been a contributing factor to declining populations of American paddlefish in the states where they are commercially exploited, particularly while the demand for caviar remains strong. Since the 1980s, a trade embargo on Iran restricted imports of the highly sought after and most expensive beluga caviar from the Caspian Sea, limiting U.S. sources of caviar. The most sought after caviar is produced by sturgeons in the Northern Caspian Sea, but overfishing and poaching have exhausted the supply. American sturgeon and paddlefish populations were targeted as likely substitutes.\n\nThe roe of American paddlefish can be processed into caviar similar in taste, color, size and texture to sevruga sturgeon caviar from the Caspian Sea. Several cases of mislabeled American paddlefish roe sold as Caspian Sea caviar have been prosecuted by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). State and federal regulations restricting the harvest of American paddlefish populations in the wild, and the illegal trafficking of their roe are strictly enforced. Related violations such as the illegal transport of American paddlefish roe have resulted in convictions with substantial fines and prison sentences. Paddlefish are also protected under CITES, (Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora).\n\n"}
{"id": "451178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451178", "title": "Avida", "text": "Avida\n\nAvida is an artificial life software platform to study the evolutionary biology of self-replicating and evolving computer programs (digital organisms). Avida is under active development by Charles Ofria's Digital Evolution Lab at Michigan State University; the first version of Avida was designed in 1993 by Ofria, Chris Adami and C. Titus Brown at Caltech, and has been fully reengineered by Ofria on multiple occasions since then. The software was originally inspired by the Tierra system.\n\nTierra simulated an evolutionary system by introducing computer programs that competed for computer resources, specifically processor (CPU) time and access to main memory. In this respect it was similar to Core Wars, but differed in that the programs being run in the simulation were able to modify themselves, and thereby evolve. Tierra's programs were artificial life organisms.\n\nUnlike Tierra, Avida assigns every digital organism its own protected region of memory, and executes it with a separate virtual CPU. By default, other digital organisms cannot access this memory space, neither for reading nor for writing, and cannot execute code that is not in their own memory space.\n\nA second major difference is that the virtual CPUs of different organisms can run at different speeds, such that one organism executes, for example, twice as many instructions in the same time interval as another organism. The speed at which a virtual CPU runs is determined by a number of factors, but most importantly, by the \"tasks\" that the organism performs: logical computations that the organisms can carry out to reap extra CPU speed as bonus.\n\nAdami and Ofria, in collaboration with others, have used Avida to conduct research in digital evolution, and the scientific journals \"Nature\" and \"Science\" have published four of their papers.\n\nThe 2003 paper \"The Evolutionary Origin of Complex Features\" describes the evolution of a mathematical equals operation from simpler bitwise operations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7098737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7098737", "title": "Cassius Baloyi", "text": "Cassius Baloyi\n\nCassius Baloyi, (born on 5 November 1974 in Malamulele, South Africa), is a retired professional boxer.\n\nKnown as \"Mr. Shy Guy\", Baloyi turned pro in 1994 and captured the Vacant IBF Super Featherweight Title in 2006 with a TKO win over Manuel Medina. He lost the title in his first defense to Gairy St Clair later in the year, but regained the title by defeating compatriot Mzonke Fana on 12 April 2008. His most recent defense in September 2008 was against Javier Osvaldo Alvarez, whom he knocked down three times on the way to a TKO victory. On 12 April 2008, Baloyi lost his title to Malcolm Klassen when the referee stopped the fight during the seventh round after Klassen overpowered Baloyi. After the fight it was reported that Baloyi was disappointed with his trainer. Baloyi has retired from professional boxing and is now a Pro and Amateur boxing coach in Johannesburg.\n\nBaloyi is the only South African to ever win 6 World Titles.\nBaloyi was named \"Boxer of the Year\" for 2008 at the Boxing SA Annual Awards at a banquet held at Carnival City in Brakpan.\n\nThe Cassius Baloyi Boxing Academy was launched in January 2010 – a non-profit company dedicated to teaching boxing to underprivileged youths, particularly those living in Alexendra. The Academy is affiliated with Sanabo and the local Boxing Committee JABO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1135060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1135060", "title": "Cause of Yasser Arafat's death", "text": "Cause of Yasser Arafat's death\n\nYasser Arafat, who was the President of the Palestinian National Authority and Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization, died unexpectedly on 11 November 2004, 75 years of age, after a short period of illness. The cause of Arafat's death has since been debated, although several different theories concerning it have been suggested.\n\nArafat's illness began on 12 October 2004 with nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. Soon afterward, his general health deteriorated. Following visits by other doctors, including teams from Tunisia, Jordan, and Egypt, Arafat was taken to France on a French government jet, and was admitted to the Hôpital d'instruction des armées Percy in Clamart, a suburb of Paris, on 29 October 2004. On admission, he was suffering from diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and generalised abdominal pain, along with mild liver and kidney failure linked to disseminated intravascular coagulation. His condition deteriorated with acute renal failure, and, on 3 November, he lapsed into a gradually deepening coma.\n\nA controversy erupted between officials of the PNA and Suha Arafat when officials from the PNA traveled to France to see Yasser Arafat. Suha stated, \"They are trying to bury Abu Ammar [Arafat] alive\". French law forbids physicians from discussing the condition of their patients with anybody, with the exception, in the case of a grave prognosis, of close relatives. Accordingly, all communications concerning Arafat's health had to be authorized by his wife. Palestinian officials expressed regret that the news about Yasser Arafat was \"filtered\" by her.\n\nThe next day, chief surgeon Christian Estripeau of Percy reported that Arafat's condition had worsened, and that he had fallen into a deeper coma. Sheikh Taissir Tamimi, the head of the Islamic court of the Palestinian territories, who held a vigil at Arafat's bedside, visited Arafat, and declared that it was out of the question to disconnect him from life support, since, according to him, such an action is prohibited in Islam.\n\nArafat was pronounced incapacitated on 11 November 2004 at 03:30 UTC at the age of 75 of what French doctors called a massive haemorrhagic cerebrovascular accident. However, the underlying infection was declared unknown. The official statement announcing his death failed to determine a cause, saying only that he had a \"mystery blood disorder\".\n\nThe \"Canard Enchaîné\" newspaper reported alleged leaks of information by unnamed medical sources at Percy hospital that had access to Arafat and his medical file. According to the newspaper, the doctors at Percy hospital suspected, from Arafat's arrival, grave lesions of the liver responsible for an alteration of the composition of the blood; Arafat was therefore placed in a hematology service. Leukemia was \"soundly ruled out\". According to the same source, the reason why this diagnosis of cirrhosis could not be made available was that, in the mind of the general public, cirrhosis is generally associated with the consequences of alcohol abuse. Even though the diagnosis was not of alcoholic cirrhosis and Arafat was not known for consuming any alcohol, there was a likelihood of rumors. The source explained that Arafat's living conditions did little to improve the situation. Thus, according to the source, the probable causes of the disease were multiple; Arafat's coma was a consequence of the worsened cirrhosis. The French newspaper \"Le Monde\" quoted doctors as saying that he suffered from \"an unusual blood disease and a liver problem\".\n\nAfter Arafat's death, the French Ministry of Defence said that Arafat's medical file would be transmitted to only his next of kin. It was determined that Arafat's nephew and PNA envoy to the UN, Nasser al-Qudwa, was a close enough relative, thus working around Suha Arafat's silence on her husband's illness. Nasser al-Qudwa was given a copy of Arafat's 558-page medical file by the French Ministry of Defence.\n\nThere are numerous theories about the cause of Arafat's death. Initially Arafat records were withheld by senior Palestinian officials. In 2004, Palestinian Foreign Minister Nabil Shaath has said after talks with Arafat's French doctors that they had \"ruled out completely poison\". However, Shaath recently stated in \"The Price of Kings\", a documentary on Arafat's leadership, \"I have no doubt that he was assassinated. The French said that whatever toxic material was in his body did not test positive in their toxicology table, saying in plain words \"this was a poison we did not have in our laboratories.\"\n\nAl-Kurdi, Arafat's personal physician for 18 years, said \"I would usually be summoned to attend to Arafat immediately, even when all he had was a simple cold ... But when his medical situation was really deteriorating, they chose not to call me at all\", and Arafat's wife, Suha, refused to allow him to visit Arafat in the private Paris hospital where he was being treated. Later he was denied access to Arafat's body after his death.\n\nAl-Kurdi also lamented that Arafat's widow Suha had refused an autopsy, which he said would have answered many questions regarding cause of death.\n\nMedical records released in 2005 showed that Arafat's doctors could not agree on the cause of death, stating that he died from a stroke that stemmed from an unknown condition. Analysis based on those records suggested him dying from poisoning, AIDS, or an infection. In 2012, newly released medical records revealed that French doctors initially diagnosed Arafat with gastroenteritis.\n\nIn September 2005, based on obtained Arafat records, an Israeli AIDS expert claimed that Arafat bore all the symptoms of AIDS, while \"The New York Times\" claimed it was highly unlikely that Arafat died from AIDS. John Loftus reported on ABC radio that Arafat had died of AIDS. According to Loftus, the CIA had knowledge of his condition, and convinced Israel not to assassinate him and wait for his inevitable death of the disease, since the subsequent widespread connotations of the disease with homosexuality would discredit him. Arafat's personal doctor for 18 years, Dr. Ashraf Al-Kurdi, said Arafat suffered from AIDS.\n\nHowever an article published in a number of American news publications rejected the assertion that Arafat had AIDS, stating, \"An Israeli infectious disease specialist said he would have performed the test, if only to be thorough and to refute the rumors that surrounded the case. He said news accounts during Arafat's illness made him strongly suspect that Arafat had AIDS. But after studying the records, he said that was improbable, given the sudden onset of the intestinal troubles\", though AIDS-associated opportunistic infections such as cryptosporidiosis can begin in this way. This same article also states that it is \"highly unlikely\" that Arafat had died from poisoning, and further asserts that Arafat had died from a stroke linked to an \"underlying infection.\"\n\nIn 2005, Palestinian ambassador to Sri Lanka Attalah Quiba alleged that Arafat was killed by two Israelis with a high-tech laser, and the two Israelis attempted to flee but were \"wrestled down by Palestinian Security personnel\". Quiba also alleged that 16 countries had tested the blood of Arafat, and determined that Arafat was poisoned through \"high technology\".\n\nNew medical records that were released in July 2012 showed that Arafat's condition was initially diagnosed as viral gastroenteritis by his Arab doctors who took care of him in the West Bank in the Mukataa before he was airlifted to France, although his condition later improved and he even joined in the fast of Ramadan. However, there was persistent vomiting and diarrhea, Arafat began feeling weaker, and his blood platelet count dropped. On 28 October, his medical team decided to send him abroad, and he was flown to France the next morning.\n\nDr Joseph Zimmerman, an Israeli specialist who reviewed the Ramallah medical file said Arafat's early symptoms were not consistent with viral gastroenteritis, and did not believe that type of viral infection would lead to death. He also said that poisoning appeared unlikely, even by a radioactive substance such as polonium-210. He reminded people that Arafat's platelet counts dropped suddenly and stayed low, and that Arafat eventually exhibited signs of liver dysfunction, which could have been caused by a bacterial infection, but is not typical of poisoning.\n\nA report by the French doctors who treated him states that a platelet disorder caused Arafat's death. The cause of this platelet disorder is unknown, although poison is a possibility.\n\nIn 2004, Palestinian Foreign Minister Nabil Shaath said after talks with Arafat's French doctors that they had \"ruled out completely poison\". A 2005 article in \"The New York Times\" said that based on his records it was highly unlikely that Arafat died from poisoning. Meanwhile, al-Kurdi called for the creation of an independent commission to carry out investigations concerning Arafat's suspicious death, stating, \"any doctor would tell you that these are the symptoms of a poisoning\".\n\nFormer Knesset member, peace activist and personal friend of Arafat Uri Avnery claimed at the time of Arafat's death that he had been poisoned, and repeated the claim in 2012. Another \"senior Israeli physician\" claimed in an article in \"Haaretz\" that it was \"a classic case of food poisoning\", probably caused by a meal eaten four hours before he fell ill that may have contained a toxin such as ricin, rather than a standard bacterial poisoning. However, in the same week as the report in \"Haaretz\", \"The New York Times\" published a separate report, also based on access to Arafat's medical records, which claimed that it was highly unlikely that Arafat had food poisoning.\n\nIn 2009, Bassam Abu Sharif, Arafat's former advisor, alleged that Mossad, the national intelligence agency of Israel, had poisoned Arafat by a lethal dose of thallium, a rare chemical whose effects are difficult to trace, via Arafat's daily medications. Abu Sharif alleged that the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) had held the driver of a Palestinian ambulance that brought him his medications, for a minimum of 30 minutes while the IDF searched it. According to Abu Sharif, this incident would have allowed Israel to replace Arafat's medications with poison. In his book \"Arafat and the Dream of Palestine: An Insider's Account\", Abu Sarif wrote, \"I was positive they were poisoning his food on a daily basis and doing it right under our very eyes.\"\n\nIn 2011, Abu Sarif alleged that an investigation conducted by \"the most prominent forensic toxicology expert in the UK\" had revealed that thallium was responsible for poisoning Arafat. According to Abu Sharif, European toxicology experts are not familiar with thallium and only this forensic toxicology expert could have identified the thallium. However, Abu Sharif did not reveal the names of the expert or the institution responsible for the research.\n\nAs a result of Abu Sharif's allegations, the delegates at the August 2009 Fatah convention in Bethlehem voted for a resolution which blamed Israel for poisoning Yasser Arafat. An editorial in \"The Jerusalem Post\" questioned the legitimacy of Abu Sharif's allegations, noting that \"nobody asked how Abu Sharif came to possess this information, whether he can back it up or why he chose to divulge it so late\". A leader of Fatah and a nephew of Arafat said that an investigation indicated a \"high possibility of poisoning\" but that there was not any proof.\n\nAccording to Israel Radio, a former Palestinian intelligence officer, attorney Fahmi Shabana, said that Yasser Arafat's political rivals were responsible for his death, and that he was poisoned with polonium. Shabana, who took part in the investigation into Arafat's death in a French hospital in 2004, also said that several months after his death, the same cell murdered the head of military intelligence in Gaza, General Moussa Arafat, a relative of the PLO leader, in order to prevent a blood feud. The lawyer called on Palestinian Authority president Mahmoud Abbas to reopen the investigation into Arafat's death.\"\n\nOn \"Newsnight\" on UK TV on 21 January 2016, during a feature on the 2006 assassination of Alexander Litvinienko, George Galloway claimed to have been with Yasser Arafat in Paris when he died of polonium-210 poisoning.\n\nOn 4 July 2012, Al Jazeera reported that a nine-month investigation by Al Jazeera had revealed that none of the causes of Arafat's death suggested in several rumors were true, as Arafat was in good health until he suddenly fell ill on 12 October 2004. Tests carried out by the \"Institut de Radiophysique\" (Institute of Radiation Physics) at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland found traces of polonium, a rare, highly radioactive element, on Arafat's personal belongings, which suggested that there was a high level of polonium inside his body when he died. The lethal element was found in quantities much higher than could occur naturally, and further, that 60%–80% of that polonium (depending on the item being tested) had not come from natural sources.\n\nIn October 2010, an official press release from the Institut de Radiophysique, where those items were analyzed, had stated that:\n\"an unexplained quantity of Polonium-210 has been detected on the personal effects of Mr. Arafat. However, this is not sufficient to determine the causes of death. In particular, it will be recalled that, contrary to what happened in the case of the former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko, Mr. Arafat did not lose his hair, and some of the findings in the forensic report are inconsistent with an acute radiation syndrome.\"\n\nIn July 2012, a spokesman for the Institut de Radiophysique stressed that the \"clinical symptoms described in Arafat's medical reports were not consistent with polonium-210 and that conclusions could not be drawn as to whether the Palestinian leader was poisoned or not\", and that \"the only way to confirm the findings would be to exhume Arafat's body to test it for polonium-210\". François Bochud, who heads the Institute of Radiation Physics in Lausanne, Switzerland, stated that \"our results are clearly not a proof of any poisoning\". Alastair Hay, professor of environmental toxicology at the University of Leeds in England, stated: \"You don't know much about the provenance of the clothing and whether it had been tampered with later on. You'd want to test the body.\"\n\nIn response to Al Jazeera's report, Dr Ely Karmon, at Herzliya's Institute for Counterterrorism, a specialist in chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear terrorism, said that \"the half-life of the substance [i.e., slightly more than 138 days 9 hours] would make it impossible for polonium to have been discovered at such high levels if it had been used to kill Arafat eight years ago. If it had been used for poisoning, minimal levels should be seen now. Yet much higher levels were found. Someone planted the polonium much later.\" He went on to question why Arafat's widow, Suha Arafat, who provided the researchers with Arafat's belongings was not also poisoned while she was by his side at the hospital touching him and his clothing.\n\nIsrael has denied any connection to the rumours. Deputy Spokesman of Israeli Foreign Ministry Paul Hirschson was skeptical of the rumours, joking, \"All of a sudden, Suha's checking her wash basket and discovered clothes that weren't washed for eight years. Suddenly, out of nowhere a couple of garments turn up; we test them, and presto! There's Polonium.\" Avi Dichter, who was in charge of the Shin Bet when Arafat died, told Army radio that \"Yasser Arafat had many enemies, domestically, abroad. But let them investigate. ... The Palestinians know well how to investigate what goes on in their house. Let them investigate and find out.\"\n\nOn 12 October 2013, the British medical journal \"The Lancet\" published a peer-reviewed article titled \"Improving forensic investigation for polonium poisoning\". In the article, a group of Swiss doctors suggested that Arafat could have died of polonium poisoning. The team analysed 38 samples of Arafat's clothes and belongings and 37 reference samples which were known to be polonium-free. Several of the Arafat samples were notably more radioactive than the controls, but not all. The team believed that an autopsy could be useful in this case. After testing Arafat's personal belongings and samples of his body fluids, the chief of the Federal Medical-Biological Agency of Russia, Vladimir Uiba, concluded that polonium was not the cause of his death, but the Agency then denied that Uiba's comments were official. British forensic scientist Professor David Barclay said the Swiss team's findings were a \"smoking gun\", and that it was \"absolutely certain\" that polonium had been the cause of his death. After the results of the French and Russian tests became public, David Barclay did not comment or communicate any more on the case.\n\nThe French tests found some polonium but stated it was from \"natural environmental origin\". Later the Russian tests released in December 2013 found that Arafat's death was not caused by radiation. Vladimir Uiba, the head of the Russian Federal Medical and Biological Agency, stated that Yasser had died of natural causes and they had no plans to conduct further tests.\n\nFollowing Al Jazeera's revelations, Suha Arafat, Arafat's widow, called for the exhumation of Arafat's body for further testing, in response to the Al Jazeera story about polonium. In response, Abbas ordered a committee to be formed, and stated that there were no religious or political obstacles to exhuming the body. However, Nimr Hamad, an aide to Abbas, stated that a team of experts would first be sent to Europe to learn more from the Swiss institute and from the French military hospital where Arafat died. Abbas stated that he would only order an autopsy if the family agreed, but did not define whom in the family he meant. Later, Abbas stated that they would only investigate \"if necessary\". Tawfiq Tirawi, the head of the committee in charge of investigating Arafat's death, stated: \"We are certain that there are Palestinian hands that contributed to the elimination of Yasser Arafat.\" With regards to those people, Tirawi stated that they \"will be subject to severe penalties and doomed to death\". On 30 July 2012, Tirawi added, \"We haven't initiated the investigation based on the hypothesis that Arafat was killed by poison, but we agreed to begin an investigation searching directly for the killer regardless of the medical reports which will eventually show the method of killing and name of the toxin.\"\n\nTunisia also requested that the Arab League convene a ministerial meeting to discuss Arafat's death and study the circumstances in which he died.\n\nArab League Secretary-General Nabil Elaraby stated that a permanent representative meeting would be held to discuss Arafat's death, and that permanent representatives would prepare a report and raise proposals over necessary action, which they would present in the soonest Arab League ministerial meeting.\n\nOn 9 July 2012, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas approved the exhumation of Arafat's body in response to the Al Jazeera story about polonium. On 8 August 2012, Swiss experts were invited to the West Bank to prepare for the examination of Yasser Arafat's remains to investigate possible poisoning. The lab said that they wanted guarantees that the investigation would not be used for political purposes, saying, \"Meanwhile, our main concern is to guarantee the independence, the credibility and the transparency of any involvement that we may have.\" On 27 November 2012, three teams of international investigators collected samples from Arafat's body and the surrounding soil in the mausoleum in Ramallah. A French, a Swiss and a Russian team have independently investigated the samples.\n\nPublication of the results of the studies was delayed, reportedly on the request of the Palestinian Authority, which feared they could have negative impact on the peace talks.\n\nOn 6 November 2013, Al Jazeera reported that the Swiss forensic team had found levels of polonium in Arafat's ribs and pelvis 18 times higher than normal, and were 83% confident that polonium poisoning had occurred, but Professor Bochud disagreed with this interpretation by Al Jazeera and only stated that the poisoning hypothesis by polonium was \"moderately supported\".\n\nAccording to a journalist from the Swiss daily newspaper Le Temps, Luis Lema, the Swiss experts had concluded that on a probability scale ranging from one to six, death by polonium poisoning was around five . \n\nArafat's widow Suha stated her belief that he was a victim of a \"political assassination\" but refrained from finger-pointing and said she would await the French forensic results.\n\nJoods Actueel, a Belgian monthly newspaper, claimed that most experts in forensics disagreed that the results were consistent with polonium poisoning and that the conclusions of the Swiss study were not in line with the results obtained.\n\nForensic biologist Nathan Lents of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice said the report's results were consistent with a possible polonium poisoning, but \"There's certainly not a smoking gun here.\"\n\nDerek Hill, a professor in radiological science at University College London who was not involved in the investigation, said: \"I would say it's clearly not overwhelming proof, and there is a risk of contamination (of the samples), but it is a pretty strong signal. ... It seems likely what they're doing is putting a very cautious interpretation of strong data.\"\n\nAfter the testing of Arafat's remains by the Russian team, the Russian Medical-Biological Agency concluded that polonium was not the cause of his death. However, the government scientific body later denied that it had made any official statement about the research, saying only that it had handed its results to the Russian Foreign Ministry. However, Al Jazeera found that the Russian scientists had only investigated four out of 20 samples, being the samples that were unlikely to show the amount of radioactive exposure. The scientists also appear to have been restricted by the Russian Foreign Ministry in how to present the report. According to Al Jazeera's source, \"Russia's goal was to fulfill the Palestinian Authority's request, not offend Israel by helping the PA, and not create a new hotbed in the Middle East\".\n\nIn December 2013, an unidentified person leaked what were claimed to be the results of the French investigation to AFP, saying that \"the report rules out the poisoning theory and goes in the sense of a natural death\". According to the leaker, the report says Arafat died of a \"generalised infection\". On December 4, Al Jazeera quoted Suha Arafat speaking at a press conference after having received the French report: \"Is it the poisoned body that would have contaminated the environment outside? Or is it the opposite? The first one is the conclusion of the Swiss. The Swiss think that the body was poisoned and contaminated the environment. And the French reach the opposite conclusion—that it's actually the environment outside which explains the presence of polonium 210.\" Later that same month, a Russian investigative team from the Federal Medico-Biological Agency agreed that Arafat did not die from poisoning.\n\nUnlike the Swiss report, the French and Russian reports were not made public, at the time. The French later announced that foul play was not involved.\n\nThe CHUV published in February 2016 a paper in Science Direct to justify their conclusions. They admitted: \"The evidences gathered during this expert report are not clear-cut: we cannot exclude Po as a cause of death, but we cannot be sure that Po was the cause of death.\"\nIn an other document the CHUV explains \"...these results do not then define the probability to which Yasser Arafat would have been poisoned by polonium, but must be integrated into the larger context of the police and legal investigations in connection to this case, and which are beyond our field of expertise\" which shows several press articles using probability figures were completerly wrong in interpreting the results.\n\nJoods Actueel publishes in July 2016 an updated document whereby it states that their previous analysis was confirmed by CHUV. According to them, the conclusions that are based only on Bayes analysis are not valid as they are not documented with figures. It also reminds juridical errors based on such method as the case of Sally Clark.\n\nAfter Al Jazeera's presentation in July 2012 of the results of its nine-month investigation, Arafat's widow Suha Arafat declared her intention to launch a court case in France into the death of her husband. Suha Arafat told Al Jazeera that she had long suspected that her former husband was murdered, noting that both Israel and the United States regarded him as an obstacle to peace.\n\nOn 31 July 2012, Suha Arafat and her daughter Zawra lodged a murder complaint in the Paris western suburb of Nanterre. On 28 August, French prosecutors opened a murder inquiry. In March 2015, a French prosecutor announced that Arafat's death was from natural causes, and found that the polonium 210 and lead 210 discovered in Arafat's grave were of an environmental nature.\n\nLater, a French investigation by three judges unanimously concluded that \"it has not been demonstrated that Mr Yasser Arafat was murdered by polonium-210 poisoning\" and that the investigation should be dropped.\n\nAt the end of June 2016, a French Court of Appeal confirmed the previous conclusions.\n\nIsraeli officials denied in 2012 any connection with the recent finds.\n\nIsraeli journalist Yossi Melman, who specializes in espionage stories, reported that, based on his research with Dan Raviv, Israel did not kill Arafat. Melman stated that the IDF had wanted to take harsh action against Arafat, ranging from killing him to expelling him, but Prime Minister Sharon rejected these ideas, stating that the advantages wouldn't outweigh being accused of killing Arafat, and Arafat already seemed to be an irrelevant leader who wasn't trusted by the international community.\n\nJournalist Danny Rubinstein states that Sharon's inner circle constantly discussed how to get rid of Arafat months and weeks before his death. Israeli peace activist and former Knesset member, Uri Avnery, a personal friend of Arafat, blames Ariel Sharon for Arafat's death. Palestinian official and nephew of Arafat Nasser al-Qudwa said that the report of the committee that investigated the death of late Palestinian President Yasser Arafat revealed that the leader was poisoned to death, and that Israel is directly responsible for his assassination. He said \"Israel as a state, is a country that has access to Polonium, had the capability to assassinate the late leader, and expressed clear interest in getting rid of him\".\n\nOn 11 September 2003, the Israeli security Cabinet decided to \"remove\" Arafat. In a statement it said \"Recent days' events have proven again that Yasser Arafat is a complete obstacle to any process of reconciliation... Israel will act to remove this obstacle in the manner, at the time, and in the ways that will be decided on separately...\" Prime Minister Ariel Sharon refused to give a timetable for his removal, because \"It depends on what happens on the ground,\". Sharon said: \"Arafat is responsible for the killing of hundreds, if not thousands, of Jews...The sword is hanging over his head, and this is a good thing.\" Chief of Staff Moshe Ya'alon and other Israeli officials declared that the Palestinian leader should \"either be killed or deported\". Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said that Arafat impeded and undermined the peace process and urged states of the European Union to boycott Arafat. Deputy Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told Israel Radio that killing Arafat \"is definitely one of the options\" under consideration by the government. A Security Council resolution demanding that Israel desist from deporting Arafat or threatening his safety was vetoed by the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "20963512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20963512", "title": "Chore chart", "text": "Chore chart\n\nChore charts are also called reward charts, behavior charts, chore calendars, chore lists or task lists. A chore chart is a listing used to track and organize the house work. The chart can be physical or virtual and is often a means used by parents to post chores expected of their children.\n\nDifferent homes have different ways of organizing and implementing a chore system, including simple paper charts tacked on the refrigerator. There has been a lot of research, experiential evidence and discussion of chore charts.\n\nChore charts list household tasks, sometimes one chore chart per child and sometimes a combined list. Since children of different abilities and ages can handle various responsibilities, the chores featured on a chore chart can be divided by age. Younger children may not responsibly handle complex chores, but may still be able and want to help around the house.\n\nWhile some parents do not give allowance or reward for household chores, there is evidence that allowance and reward helps to create financially sound adults and teach financial responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "1991748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1991748", "title": "Conspiracy Museum", "text": "Conspiracy Museum\n\nThe Conspiracy Museum was a private exhibition of conspiracy theories in the West End Historic District of downtown Dallas, Texas (USA). R. B. Cutler, self-described as an \"assassinologist\", opened the museum in 1995.\n\nThe Conspiracy Museum was located across the street from the Kennedy Memorial in Dallas, Texas in the Katy Building. The museum was not limited in scope to the conspiracy theories surrounding the assassination of John F. Kennedy, but it also covered Robert F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr., Abraham Lincoln, and Ted Kennedy's Chappaquiddick incident. Cutler's argument was that all these conspiracies can be tied together. The museum was often overlooked by visitors heading to the more well-known Sixth Floor Museum.\n\nThe museum closed on December 30, 2006, having lost its lease. The building's owners announced that a Quiznos sandwich shop would take its place. Tom Bowden, the museum's president, said that the museum would re-locate to another part of the Katy Building or another location entirely and that detailed plans would be released.\n\n"}
{"id": "55034877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55034877", "title": "Coroner (Washington state)", "text": "Coroner (Washington state)\n\nA coroner in Washington state is a quasi-judicial, public official principally charged with the certification of human death. It is completely identical in authority to the parallel office of medical examiner, which also exists in the state. Washington uses a \"mixed system\" of death investigation with some counties employing coroners, and some employing medical examiners. \n\nAs of 2017, 24 of Washington's 39 counties have a coroner or a medical examiner. In 15 rural counties there are neither coroners nor medical examiners; duties normally performed by a coroner or medical examiner are instead discharged by the county's prosecuting attorney. \n\nThis article uses the term \"coroner\" to refer to coroners, medical examiners, and county attorneys discharging the duties of coroners. \n\nThe office of Coroner originated in England no later than 1194, though uncertain evidence indicates a possible older history. By the reign of Edward I, there were four coroners in each county, elected to serve for life. Coroners were charged with recording and investigating deaths, of administering treasure trove, and of substituting for the Sheriff when he was a party to a matter or incapacitated; the elected Coroner eventually evolved into a check on the power of the Crown-appointed Sheriff. The system of coronial death investigation was brought to North America by British colonists; one of the earliest coroners empowered in North America was appointed by William Penn in 1682 after a dead body was discovered on the banks of a river.\n\nThe Washington Territory was established in 1853 and, the following year, the Territorial Legislature passed \"An Act Relative to Coroners\" which required each of the territory's counties to organize an election for coroner and to hold a new election every two years thereafter. This act also authorized the Coroner to perform the duties of the Sheriff in certain matters:\n\nAs early as 1907, legislative attempts were made to require elected coroners be licensed physicians. In 1913 the legislature abolished the office of coroner in all counties, except \"counties of the first class\" (the largest counties in the state), devolving the duties of coroner to the office of county attorney. However, A.R. Maulsby, the coroner of Snohomish County - an office which had been abolished by the statute - refused to stand-down, declaring the act of the legislature to be unconstitutional. The state's Supreme Court eventually sided with Maulsby, noting that the state constitution, as it then read, required a system of county government \"uniform throughout the state\". In 1948, the constitution was substantially amended to allow differential forms of county government in certain circumstances.\n\nIn 1960 the Washington State Medical Association called for the complete abolition of the office of coroner, supporting its replacement with a system of state medial examiners and, in 1969, legislation was passed by the state's House of Representatives to do just that, however, the legislation failed in the state Senate. \n\nThe Revised Code of Washington, as of 2017, provides for the creation of an office of coroner in each county with a population of 40,000 or more. In counties with a population less than 40,000, no independent office of coroner is authorized and the duties which normally fall to a corner are discharged by the county's attorney instead. In addition, counties which have a population greater than 250,000 may choose to replace the office of corner with that of medical examiner. Medical examiners are elected by the legislative authority of the county in which they hold office and are required to be certified as a forensic pathologist by the American Board of Pathology, while coroners are elected by the voters of the county in which they hold office and are required to have no qualifications other than the right to vote. \n\nIn 1968, prior to the enactment of the medical examiner statute, 17 counties had coroners while the remaining 22 counties had no coroners, the county prosecuting attorney discharging the duties of coroner, instead. As of 2017 in Washington, 18 counties have coroners, six have medical examiners, and 15 have neither coroners nor medical examiners, the county attorney performs the functions otherwise discharged by a coroner or medical examiner.\n\nAs of 2017, Washington law provides that a county coroner shall \"perform the duties of the sheriff in all cases where the sheriff is interested or otherwise incapacitated from serving\", wording unchanged from the original statute enacted by the Territorial Legislature in 1854.\nIn general, deaths in Washington are either certified by physicians, or by licensed funeral directors using information obtained from a physician pertaining to a decedant's cause of death. Certification is made to one of a number of regional registries each administered by a designated \"deputy registrar\" who approves each addition to the death registry. However, state law provides that deaths arising from one of a list of prescribed mechanisms (including drowning, hanging, electrocution, radiation, sodomy, strangulation, etc.), or involving a healthy person who had not received medical attention in the 36 hours preceding his or her death, or in which the death occurred in a jail or prison, or in which the identity of the decedant is unknown, or in which the death occurred under suspicious circumstances, can only be certified by a county coroner. Physicians, deputy registrars, or any person discovering a body (such as a police officer) are legally obligated to refer these cases directly to coroners who are authorized to take possession of the body, to order a forensic autopsy on it, to pronounce the cause and mechanism of death, and to determine if the death was the result of unlawful homicide, which is necessary to bring criminal charges against a person. \n\nIn 2015, approximately 8.2 percent of all decedants in Washington were autopsied. \n\nThe coroner is, additionally, empowered to convene an inquest to advise him on the cause of death prior to certifying the death. Inquests are conducted by a jury of at least four citizens convened by the coroner, hear evidence presented by him, and make an advisory verdict. The proceedings of an inquest are open to the public (investigations held outside an inquest are otherwise confidential and information produced by it - including autopsy reports - can only be released to certain individuals, such as law enforcement officers and next of kin).\n\nThe procedure is rarely used, but has been invoked on occasions where a death is controversial and the coroner feels public scrutiny would be warranted. In 2016, following the shooting death of an Hispanic man by police in Franklin County, Washington, the coroner convened an inquest of six jurors - appointing three Hispanic persons to the jury - to ensure that \"the public can’t say, ‘it’s the cops investigating the cops'\". The inquest was only the third convened in Franklin County in the preceding twenty years and ultimately ruled the death was justifiable homicide by gunshot.\n\nPrior to 2016, coroners had the authority to issue arrest warrants should an inquest determine a cause of death as unlawful homicide. Since that time, a change in state law has required coroners to refer findings of homicide to a county prosecuting attorney for charging.\n\nCoroners are responsible for arranging for the disposal of human remains in cases in which \"there is no other person willing to provide for the disposition of the body\".\n\nThe costs of retaining a forensic pathologist to conduct autopsies ordered by county coroners or medical examiners are reimbursed to counties by the state from the Death Investigations Account, which is held by the Washington State Treasurer. The account is funded from revenue generated by the state's Department of Health; eight dollars of the cost of every certified copy of a record produced by the department is deposited in the account.\n\nThe Washington State Patrol Toxicology Laboratory, located in Seattle, performs testing on blood and tissue for the presence of drugs and alcohol at the request of coroners and medical examiners. As of the early 2000s, it conducted approximately 650 tests per year as part of coroner or medical examiner death investigations. Established in 1963, the laboratory was accredited by the American Board of Forensic Toxicology in 2005.\n\nThe Washington Association of Coroners and Medical Examiners is a non-profit, non-governmental organization composed of the state's 39 coroners, medical examiners, and prosecuting attorneys who discharge coroner duties. It facilitates the exchange of information among officials and organizes continuing education courses on topics related to death investigation.\n\nIn 2001 Kitsap County created a program of \"reserve investigative assistant coroners\", what was at the time described as the first program of its kind in the state. Under it, citizen volunteers who commit to 80 hours of classroom and field training can be appointed as part-time, unpaid assistant coroners in Kitsap County. Reserve assistant coroners assist deputy coroners in transporting human remains, recovering bodies, and clerical duties. \nIn 2002 the Kitsap County Coroner’s Office Reserve Deputy Coroner Program was disbanded.\nAs of 2017, Lewis County had a similar program.\n\nAs of 2017, the coroner offices in Cowlitz County,[Lewis County, Washington|Lewis County]], Grant County, and Kitsap County have been accredited by the International Association of Coroners and Medical Examiners. The medical examiner offices of King County, Pierce County, Snohomish County, Spokane County, and Clark County, Washington, have been accredited by the National Association of Medical Examiners (NAME).\n\nThe King County Medical Examiner’s Office first earned NAME accreditation in 1978; since then, the office has maintained accreditation, making it the longest running accredited Medical Examiner’s Office in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "49316492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49316492", "title": "Darkforest", "text": "Darkforest\n\nDarkforest is a computer go program developed by Facebook, based on deep learning techniques using a convolutional neural network. Its updated version Darkfores2 combines the techniques of its predecessor with Monte Carlo tree search. The MCTS effectively takes tree search methods commonly seen in computer chess programs and randomizes them. With the update, the system is known as Darkfmcts3.\n\nDarkforest is of similar strength to programs like CrazyStone and Zen. It has been tested against a professional human player at the 2016 UEC cup. Google's AlphaGo program won against a professional player in October 2015 using a similar combination of techniques.\n\nDarkforest is named after Liu Cixin's science fiction novel \"The Dark Forest\".\n\nCompeting with top human players in the ancient game of Go has been a long-term goal of artificial intelligence. Go’s high branching factor makes traditional search techniques ineffective, even on cutting-edge hardware, and Go’s evaluation function could change drastically with one stone change. However, by using a Deep Convolutional Neural Network designed for long-term predictions, Darkforest has been able to substantially improve the win rate for bots over more traditional Monte Carlo Tree Search based approaches.\n\nAgainst human players, Darkfores2 achieves a stable \"3d ranking\" on KGS Go Server, which roughly corresponds to an advanced amateur human player. However, after adding Monte Carlo Tree Search to Darkfores2 to create a much stronger player named darkfmcts3, it can achieve a \"5d ranking\" on the KGS Go Server.\n\ndarkfmcts3 is on par with state-of-the-art Go AIs such as Zen, DolBaram and Crazy Stone but lags behind AlphaGo. It won 3rd place in January 2016 KGS Bot Tournament against other Go AIs.\n\nAfter Google's AlphaGo won against Fan Hui in 2015, Facebook made its AI's hardware designs public, alongside releasing the code behind DarkForest as open-source, along with heavy recruiting to strengthen its team of AI engineers.\n\nDarkforest uses a neural network to sort through the 10 board positions, and find the most powerful next move. However, neural networks alone cannot match the level of good amateur players or the best search-based Go engines, and so Darkfores2 combines the neural network approach with a search-based machine. A database of 250,000 real Go games were used in the development of Darkforest, with 220,000 used as a training set and the rest used to test the neural network's ability to predict the next moves played in the real games. This allows Darkforest to accurately evaluate the global state of the board, but local tactics were still poor. Search-based engines have poor global evaluation, but are good at local tactics. Combining these two approaches is difficult because search-based engines work much faster than neural networks, a problem which was solved in Darkfores2 by running the processes in parallel with frequent communication between the two.\n\nGo is generally played by analyzing the position of the stones on the board. Some advanced players have described it as playing in some part subconsciously. Unlike chess and checkers, where AI players can simply look farther forward at moves than human players, but with each round of Go having on average 250 possible moves, that approach is ineffective. Instead, neural networks copy human play by training the AI systems on images of successful moves, the AI can effectively learn how to interpret how the board looks, as many grandmasters do. In November 2015, Facebook demonstrated the combination of MCTS with neural networks, which played with a style that \"felt human\".\n\nIt has been noted that Darkforest still has flaws in its play style. Sometimes the bot plays tenuki (\"move elsewhere\") pointlessly when local powerful moves are required. When the bot is losing, it shows the typical behavior of MCTS, it plays bad moves and loses more. The Facebook AI team has acknowledged these as areas of future improvement.\n\nThe family of Darkforest computer go programs is based on convolution neural networks. The most recent advances in Darkfmcts3 combined convolutional neural networks with more traditional Monte Carlo tree search. Darkfmcts3 is the most advanced version of Darkforest, which combines Facebook's most advanced convolutional neural network architecture from Darkfores2 with a Monte Carlo tree search.\n\nDarkfmcts3 relies on a convolution neural networks that predicts the next k moves based on the current state of play. It treats the board as a 19x19 image with multiple channels. Each channel represents a different aspect of board information based upon the specific style of play. For standard and extended play, there are 21 and 25 different channels, respectively. In standard play, each players liberties are represented as six binary channels or planes. The respective plane is true if the player one, two, or three or more liberties available. Ko (i.e. illegal moves) is represented as one binary plane. Stone placement for each opponent and empty board positions are represented as three binary planes, and the duration since a stone has been placed is represented as real numbers on two planes, one for each player. Lastly, the opponents rank is represented by nine binary planes, where if all are true, the player is a 9d level, if 8 are true, a 8d level, and so forth. Extended play additionally considers the boarder (binary plane that is true at the border), position mask (represented as distance from the board center, i.e. formula_1, where formula_2 is a real number at a position), and each player's territory (binary, based on which player a location is closer to).\n\nDarkfmct3 uses a 12-layer full convolutional network with a width of 384 nodes without weight sharing or pooling. Each convolutional layer is followed by a rectified linear unit, a popular activation function for deep neural networks. A key innovation of Darkfmct3 compared to previous approaches is that it uses only one softmax function to predict the next move, which enables the approach to reduce the overall number of parameters. Darkfmct3 was trained against 300 random selected games from an empirical dataset representing different game stages. The learning rate was determined by vanilla stochastic gradient descent.\n\nDarkfmct3 synchronously couples a convolutional neural network with a Monte Carlo tree search. Because the convolutional neural network is computationally taxing, the Monte Carlo tree search focuses computation on the more likely game play trajectories. By running the neural network synchronously with the Monte Carlo tree search, it is possible to guarantee that each node is expanded by the moves predicted by the neural network.\n\nDarkfores2 beats Darkforest, its neural network-only predecessor, around 90% of the time, and Pachi, one of the best search-based engines, around 95% of the time. On the Kyu rating system, Darkforest holds a 1-2d level. Darkfores2 achieves a stable 3d level on KGS Go Server as a ranked bot. With the added Monte Carlo tree search, Darkfmcts3 with 5,000 rollouts beats Pachi with 10k rollouts in all 250 games; with 75k rollouts it achieves a stable 5d level in KGS server, on par with state-of-the-art Go AIs (e.g., Zen, DolBaram, CrazyStone); with 110k rollouts, it won the 3rd place in January KGS Go Tournament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18383669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18383669", "title": "David Moor", "text": "David Moor\n\nDavid Moor (1947 - 2000) was a British general practitioner who was prosecuted in 1999 for the euthanasia of a patient. He was found not guilty but admitted in a press interview to having helped up to 300 people to die. He was the first doctor in Britain to be tried solely for the mercy killing of a patient.\n\nMoor worked as a GP in Stamfordham, Northumberland, but retired just before his trial in 1999.\n\nGeorge Liddell was an 85-year-old ex-ambulance driver and a widower, who was suffering from cancer of the bowel. An operation was done to remove part of his bowel, but there was still some cancerous tissue left in surrounding fatty tissue and the liver. Liddell was sent home by the hospital to live with his daughter, and be treated by Moor and a team of nurses. The patient's condition deteriorated and he became depressed and appeared to be in significant pain. Moor prescribed 5 mg of diamorphine to be taken at intervals, but this had to be doubled when the pain got worse. It was agreed by his carers he was \"terminally ill\".\n\nIt was agreed to send Liddell to a hospice. Moor set the diamorphine level at a rate of 30 mg per 24-hours by means of a syringe driver. Liddell's breathing got worse and on 19 July 1997 Moor gave him an injection of diamorphine and chlorpromazine. Within about 20 minutes Liddell was dead.\n\nThe case would have gone unnoticed, but when \"The Sunday Times\" published an article by Michael Irwin on euthanasia, a journalist Rachel Ellis asked Moor his opinion on the subject. Moor said that he had given many patients overdoses of diamorphine, a comment he repeated in an interview on television. In particular, his statement that \"This week I helped two patients on the way to a pain-free release from their painful agony and suffering\" and that he had perhaps helped 10 patients per year for 30 years attracted considerable media attention. One newspaper called Moor \"Britain’s greatest serial killer\" and referred to him as \"Doctor Death\".\n\nThe trial, presided over by Mr Justice Hooper, took place at Newcastle Crown Court on 4 April 1999 and concluded on 11 May 1999. It was prosecuted by James Goss QC and Moor was defended by Anthony Arlidge QC. One key turning point in the case was the exclusion of toxicological evidence regarding the amount of diamorphine given, calling into question whether the final injection had in fact caused death.\n\nThe jury took 65 minutes to find Moor not guilty. Mr Justice Hooper awarded the defence team only two-thirds of their costs, because Moor had brought the prosecution on himself by \"very silly remarks to the press\" and by lying to the NHS and the police.\n\nPatient and former model Fiona McAndrew ran The Friends Of Dr Moor support campaign. They marched through the streets of Newcastle carrying a banner calling for the doctor to be acquitted. Former medical director Dr Micheal Urvin also attended the march he carried the banner alongside Fiona McAndrew. More than 300 of the doctors patients and supporters turned out for the March.\n\nDr Michael Wilks, chairman of the British Medical Association's ethics committee, said after the trial that guidelines for doctors were insufficiently clear: \"We are no further along the road towards any change in the law on euthanasia [...] This case just tells us that doctors who take the law into their own hands, who intend to kill their patients, as it was originally thought that Dr Moor had, are likely to be prosecuted.\"\n\nBroadcaster Ludovic Kennedy said: \"Dr Moor should never have been tried - the whole trial was a complete waste of time and money [...] He was only doing what hundreds and hundreds of doctors do in this country every year. The sooner the law is changed to allow doctors to legally help people on their way, the better.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2414949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414949", "title": "Death Watch", "text": "Death Watch\n\nDeath Watch () is a 1980 science fiction film directed by Bertrand Tavernier. It is based on the novel \"The Unsleeping Eye\" by David G. Compton, also known as \"The Continuous Katherine Mortenhoe.\" The film was entered into the 30th Berlin International Film Festival. The film had 1,013,842 admissions in France and was the 35th most attended film of the year.\n\nThe film is set in a future where death from illness has become rare. When Katherine Mortenhoe (Romy Schneider) is diagnosed as having an incurable disease, she becomes a celebrity and is besieged by journalists. The television company NTV (headed by Vincent Ferriman) offers her a large sum of money if she will allow her last days to be filmed and made into a reality television show – they have already spied on her as she is told of her diagnosis (her doctor is colluding with them) and prepared posters for the show which show her face (to her annoyance when she sees the posters on display before they have contacted her).\nKatherine pretends to agree but evades NTV's employees and goes on the run with the assistance of a casual acquaintance called Roddy (Harvey Keitel). The audience knows – but she does not – that Roddy is, in fact, a senior NTV cameraman who has undergone an experimental surgical procedure which implants cameras and transmitters behind his eyes, so that everything he sees is relayed back to NTV, who use it as the basis for their reality show. Roddy has done this mainly for money to give his estranged wife and their son. A side-effect of the procedure is that he will go blind if he experiences more than a short period of darkness; he uses drugs to keep awake, has learned to sleep for brief periods with his eyes open, and carries a flashlight which he shines on his eyes at night. Meanwhile, Katherine's doctor has discovered that she is not actually dying and he informs NTV who tell no one and continue with the show, broadcasting an edited version of Roddy's feed.\n\nContinuing on the lam, Katherine asks Roddy to take her to Land's End. The two arrive and sit on the beach and have a long talk. Katherine then asks Roddy to take her to town and buy her some lipstick. He persuades her to stay by the beach knowing that she will be recognized if she goes with him. In town, Roddy sees \"Death Watch\" playing in a pub and begins to cry. He returns to the beach as night is falling and has an emotional breakdown, losing his flashlight. Katherine comes to him and he asks her to help him. She finds the flashlight and shines it in his eyes, but he has already gone blind. Roddy admits who he is, and what he is doing, to her. \n\nAs the feed has ended to NTV due to Roddy's blindness, they send a helicopter to Land's End with a film crew to finally reveal to Katherine that she is not dying. However, Roddy and Katherine leave undetected as the helicopter arrives. Katherine takes Roddy to her husband's (Von Sydow) home in the country nearby. She has not seen her husband Gerald in 6 years. After the two stay overnight, Katherine and Gerald talk about their relationship as Roddy sleeps in a chair outside. NTV calls Gerald's home and after he speaks with them, he tells Katherine they are coming and that she is not dying and needs to stop taking the medicine she was given. Instead, Katherine takes all of it. Gerald is angry at first but finally accepts her decision. Roddy awakens and Gerald informs him that Katherine has died. NTV arrives by helicopter with producer Vincent and Roddy's wife in tow. Roddy and Gerald threaten to kill Vincent and he and the rest of the NTV crew leave with Roddy's wife staying behind. Roddy reconciles with his wife and introduces her to Gerald.\n\nMuch of the filming took place in and around Glasgow, including: Glasgow Necropolis, Glasgow Cathedral, the former Queen's Dock on the River Clyde and the Glasgow City Chambers. The film is dedicated to deceased film director Jacques Turner.\n\nIn 2012 Shout! Factory released the film on Blu-ray in Region 1, whilst Park Circus handled the Region 2 release.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "537560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537560", "title": "Doomsday (DC Comics)", "text": "Doomsday (DC Comics)\n\nDoomsday is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly as an adversary of Superman, as well as the Justice League. Created by writer-artist Dan Jurgens, the character had a cameo appearance in \"\" #17 (November 1992) and made his first full appearance in \"Superman: The Man of Steel\" #18 (December 1992).\n\nDoomsday ranked as #46 on IGN's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time. He is best known as the only character who supposedly killed Superman in combat in \"The Death of Superman\" story arc. The character appears in the 2016 film \"\", voiced and performed by Robin Atkin Downes through motion-capture.\n\nDoomsday was conceived in 1991 during an annual brainstorming session with the editors and writers of Superman comics, in response to a concern by some writers that most of Superman's foes at this point either relied on technology or their intellect to outmaneuver Superman or had some natural advantage against him, wanting to create a new foe with great physical power to match him. Several writers proposed having Superman die at the hands of a \"bestial foe\", and editor Mike Carlin scribbled this idea on the wall chart as \"doomsday for Superman\". Inspired, they chose \"Doomsday\" as the name for this villain.\n\nDoomsday had a cameo appearance in \"\" #17 (Nov. 1992) and made his first full appearance in \"\" #18 (Dec. 1992).\n\nDoomsday is depicted as a deadly monster genetically-engineered from the depths of prehistoric Krypton. His creator imbued him with few feelings, mostly hate and destruction, which led to him destroying worlds and eventually finding Earth where he meets Superman. The character is best known as Superman's murderer in the 1992 storyline, \"The Death of Superman\".\n\nOriginally known as \"The Ultimate\", Doomsday was born in prehistoric times on Krypton, long before the humanoid Kryptonian race gained dominance over the planet about 250,000 years ago. It was a violent, hellish world where only the absolute strongest of creatures could survive. In a cruel experiment involving evolution, intended to create the perfect living being, the alien scientist Bertron released a humanoid infant (born in vitro in a lab) onto the surface of the planet, where he was promptly killed by the harsh environment. The baby's remains were collected and used to clone a stronger version. This process was repeated over and over for decades as a form of accelerated natural evolution. The agony of these repeated deaths was recorded in his genes, driving the creature to hate all life.\nAs it evolved, the child eventually became able to survive the high temperatures and searing atmosphere, only to be quickly slain by the vicious predators that inhabited the planet. Over time, and without the assistance of Bertron's technology, he gained the ability to thrive on solar energy without the need for food or air, to return to life and adapt in order to overcome whatever had previously killed him. The Ultimate hunted and exterminated the dangerous predators of Krypton. He then killed Bertron himself, whom he had come to identify as an enemy.\n\nThe Ultimate escaped Krypton via a ship that regularly arrived to deliver supplies to Bertron (who had wanted little contact with the planet's natives) and went on a killing spree across several planets. It began 245,000 years earlier on planet Bylan 5, where Apokoliptian prince Uxas (the future Darkseid) was about to wed a princess (in order to obtain that planet's chemical deposits for Apokolips's weapons factories). The Ultimate killed Uxas' ally Master Mayhem almost instantly and instilled great fear on Uxas after watching their fight. Just as the Ultimate and Uxas were about to meet in combat, Uxas was forced to flee; Ultimate's rampage had caused the planet's atmosphere to become toxic, thereby rendering the chemicals worthless to Apokolips. The Ultimate hitched a ride on an escaping shuttle, which crashed on Khundia. The warring Khundian clans united in order to build protective armor for a warrior named Kobald, who they hoped would survive long enough to force the Ultimate onto a rocket. Once the rocket was in space, the Ultimate killed Kobald and the resulting explosion sent him hurling through space.\n\nHe next crossed paths with a Green Lantern named Zharan Pel who was beaten to death. The Ultimate took the Lantern's power ring and, sensing the power of the Guardians of the Universe, headed towards them. The thousands of Green Lanterns that were sent to stop him were slaughtered. He continued to Oa, where a single Guardian fought him, wary of the others joining the fight, fearing the Ultimate would absorb their powers as he believed was happening to his powers, so as a last resort sacrificed himself in battle to defeat him. The release of energies by the Guardian caused a tear in space through which the Ultimate fell.\n\nEventually arriving on the planet Calaton, he ravaged that world for three years. With only the capital city left, the royal family combined their life forces into a single energy being, the Radiant. The Radiant killed the Ultimate with a huge blast of energy (laying waste to over a fifth of his planet in the process). In common Calatonian burial procedures, the Ultimate's seemingly dead body was suited and shackled to prevent his spirit from escaping into the afterlife, and he was shot into space because the murders he committed made him unworthy of burial on Calaton. Eventually, his metallic casket crashed on Earth, the force of the impact driving it deep underground.\n\nAfter freeing one arm and smashing his way out of his buried vault, The Ultimate went on a rampage in Midwestern America, where he first encountered the Justice League. He defeated the entire team of superheroes in a matter of minutes, which in turn attracted the attention of Superman. Most notable is the fact that the creature fought the whole time literally with one hand tied behind his back (due to his ancient burial cables), yet was still able to lay waste to all opposition and much of the surrounding area. The only Justice Leaguer who could defend herself against the creature was Maxima. The creature gained its new name when League member Booster Gold remarked how the rampage resembled \"the arrival of Doomsday\". The comment reached the broadcast media and led to the creature becoming known by its new name of Doomsday. Five Leaguers, including Superman, combined their energy powers in an attempt to take Doomsday down, but succeeded only in destroying the last of his ancient burial cables, allowing him to use both hands.\n\nDuring his rampage, Doomsday's interest was captured by billboards and television spots advertising violent wrestling competitions held in Metropolis, which appealed to his blood lust and thus enticed the otherwise mindless creature to head towards the city. In counterattacking the creature, Superman quickly found that his opponent's power was a match for his own and was getting stronger, and he realized that if Doomsday actually reached Metropolis, the resulting battle could conceivably destroy the city and kill millions of innocent people. Doomsday developed a strong desire to murder Superman, a desire that was later explained in the \"Hunter/Prey\" miniseries: from the agony of continually dying during his creation process, Doomsday developed in his genes the ability to sense anyone Kryptonian, as well as an overriding instinct to treat any such being as an automatic threat.\n\nIn the space of a few issues of the Superman comic book series, Doomsday battled Superman in a titanic struggle, leading the hero to conclude that the creature would continue to attack relentlessly and endlessly, with no fear or compassion. Matters came to a head in \"Superman\" (vol. 2) #75, wherein both Doomsday and Superman beat each other to death in front of the Daily Planet building in Metropolis.\n\nFollowing the battle, four super-beings appeared and took up Superman's mantle, two of them declaring themselves to be the real Superman. One was a half-man/half-machine who greatly resembled Superman with cybernetic implants where Superman had sustained the greatest amount of damage from Doomsday's blows. This \"Superman\" took custody of Doomsday's body. After strapping the body to an asteroid with an electronic device attached, the cyborg flung Doomsday into deep space on a trajectory supposedly certain to never intersect any other planet. The issue ended with a frame of a reawakened and laughing Doomsday, still chained to the asteroid but otherwise alive.\n\nEventually, after passing through a wormhole, Doomsday's asteroid was accidentally found by a deep-space scavenger ship. Upon closer examination of the peculiar-looking drifting rock, the ship's crew retrieved the object, hoping to find something of value. The scavenger vessel happened to be on a route to Apokolips, the home of the now-powerful tyrant Darkseid, empowered by the fabled Omega Force long after his first encounter with Doomsday. Doomsday was fully rested and, after slaughtering the crew of the salvage ship, found himself landing on the harsh world. This was to be the setup for a final showdown between Doomsday and Superman, who had been uneasy about the possibility of Doomsday's resurrection. With the help of his Justice League contacts, Superman procured a Mother Box, a sentient computer, after Darkseid's servant Desaad contacted Earth about a problem on Apokolips.\n\nUnknown to Superman, Doomsday had faced and beaten Darkseid in single combat, even after withstanding the full effect of Darkseid's Omega Beams, and was laying waste to Apokolips. Unfortunately, before Superman could deal with Doomsday, Desaad opened a boom tube to Calaton—the first world where Doomsday was successfully defeated—and sent Doomsday through, to what he believed was his defeat at the hands of the Radiant. Doomsday was able to adapt, however, and overcome any opponent because of the process by which he was created, so, although the Radiant had defeated him once, he would not be able to defeat him again. Likewise, even though Superman had killed Doomsday once before, he was unable to do so again. Superman, while knowing this — having been filled in on Doomsday's history by the time-manipulating Waverider — was obsessed with stopping Doomsday and followed him to Calaton. He fought Doomsday again with the help of the Mother Box, but, despite it providing him with extra weapons such as an ultrasonic gun and an energy sword, Superman met with defeat as Doomsday's evolutions rendered him immune to Superman's attacks, such as his auditory channels being sealed by new bone growths or his knuckle-bones being able to shoot out of his body to 'pin' Superman in the air. Eventually, with his left arm having suffered a compound fracture and most of his weapons lost, Superman was forced to use one of Waverider's time travel devices to leave Doomsday stranded at the End of Time, where Doomsday met the one force he could not overcome: entropy. Upon returning Superman to the present, the Mother Box healed Superman's injuries and then \"died.\" On Apokolips, Darkseid became fascinated with Doomsday's abilities after learning his origin from Waverider.\n\nDoomsday returned yet again in the miniseries \"The Doomsday Wars\". In this series, Prin Vnok, an underling of Brainiac, uses his technology to travel to the End of Time to retrieve Doomsday in order to combine the beast's massive power with Brainiac's formidable intellect after his original body was badly injured in his last fight with Superman (this was explained as having taken place at the time of the timeline's reconstruction following the events of \"Zero Hour\"; the reconstruction of time meant that Brainiac was able to change the events of Doomsday's defeat). He was unable to erase Doomsday's consciousness with drugs, however, because he reacted too fast for the process to work. With Doomsday's strength of will too strong for Brainiac to permanently overwhelm him on his own, Brainiac instead opted to use a human host to genetically engineer a Doomsday clone without the mind of the original, while temporarily lodging in Doomsday's head to use the creature's strength until he would be forced out. He chose to use Pete Ross and Lana Lang's newborn baby, born eight weeks premature and transported by Superman to a hospital. Brainiac intercepted Superman and stole the baby to hurt his long-time foe, correctly deducing that it was the child of someone close to Superman and feeling that the baby's still-malleable DNA would make him ideal for the plan. In the end, Superman thwarted Brainiac's plot by driving him out of Doomsday's body via the use of a telepathy-blocking \"psi-blocker\", simultaneously rescuing the baby from Brainiac's equipment after his foe's treatments brought the child to full-term before infusing him with Doomsday's DNA. He then lured Doomsday to the moon, where he placed him in a kind of stasis with four Justice League teleporters. Perpetually transporting between those four booths, Doomsday would never be more than 25% integrated, and was thus unable to escape.\n\nFollowing these events, Doomsday was released by Manchester Black's Suicide Squad to battle Imperiex, a threat that was judged to be even greater than Doomsday himself. Once freed, Doomsday slaughtered the Squad, then went on to battle Imperiex's numerous probes (his mind having been altered by Black to regard them as the threat he normally perceived Superman to be), which had thus far managed to seriously injure or kill most of Earth's heroes. Doomsday tore through numerous probes with seemingly little effort, while aided by Superman—the only time the two enemies would come close to teaming up—before finally confronting Imperiex himself. Imperiex proved too much for Doomsday—he blasted the creature, reducing him to a glowing skeleton.\n\n\"Superman\" (vol. 2) #175 commemorated the 100th issue since the death of Superman in battle with Doomsday, by staging a rematch. Doomsday's skeleton was retrieved and his flesh regrown by Lex Luthor (using Superman's Kryptonian DNA), who handed Doomsday over to Darkseid to repay Earth's war debt to Apokolips. By this time, Doomsday had evolved intelligence and sentience. Luthor arranged for the Joker to set Doomsday loose in Washington, D.C., to demonstrate that he was \"in good working condition\". It also happened to be the anniversary of the day that Superman had died while stopping Doomsday. Despite being weakened by kryptonite exposure when Luthor attempted to exploit Doomsday's Kryptonian origins, Superman's heart was restarted by Black Lightning and he reached Doomsday just as the monster was struggling with the Martian Manhunter (J'onn J'onzz). Learning from J'onzz that Doomsday wanted to kill Luthor because he blamed Luthor for his \"death\" in the Imperiex War, Superman would soon fight Doomsday again and, this time, humbly defeat the creature by knocking him out and proving to himself and the world that Doomsday would never be Superman's equal anymore:\n\nYou're different now. You can think for yourself. So think about this. Before, you were a mindless thing. Nothing could hurt you. You couldn't feel pain, much less understand it. But once you have felt it—it changes you—forever. And you'll begin to understand something new. Fear. I've lived with it all my life. You don't want to die again, do you? The agony of what's happened to you affects your speed—your strength...and that little bit of doubt—that you cannot win today—grows. You understand now, don't you? You will never hurt me again. You will never kill me again. Never again!\n\nDarkseid attempted to replicate Doomsday, producing an army of Doomsday \"clones\". Darkseid was not able to duplicate perfectly the creature in all its raw power, and they were defeated by a combination of heat vision and Batman's explosive batarangs during an attack on Paradise Island, while Darkseid kidnapped the newly arrived Kara Zor-El/Supergirl.\n\nWhen Superman traveled to Apokolips to reclaim the life of Steel, Mortalla (Darkseid's wife) ordered his troops to release Doomsday in an attempt to help Darkseid. Doomsday's short freedom was quickly halted by Steel in the Entropy Aegis, an armor with incredible power that had been built out of the remains of an Imperiex probe. Doomsday disappeared and was seen wandering the harsh lands of Apokolips.\n\nWith his newfound intelligence, Doomsday managed to escape Apokolips and return to Earth. Upon his arrival, Doomsday encountered a series of emotions previously alien to him—love, compassion, and kindness. Exploring the full range of these new emotions, Doomsday made his way to Metropolis once more, though not in the destructive manner he had before. Upon his arrival in Metropolis, Doomsday found Superman at the brink of death at the hands of Gog and intervened to help Superman in an ultimately futile fight against Gog's army.\n\nIn a new future, Doomsday was remembered as one of Earth's greatest heroes, who continued Superman's legacy by leading an army under his name against the army of Gog. This new timeline ended when it was revealed that Superman was still alive, trapped and tortured with kryptonite for two centuries by Gog. Ultimately, Superman managed to convince Gog of the error of his ways. Gog offered to correct the past by returning Doomsday to an earlier point in the timeline but, in the process, Doomsday would lose his intelligence and humanity. Returned to the present, an unconscious Doomsday was transported away by a younger version of Gog to an unknown location for an unknown purpose.\n\nDuring \"Infinite Crisis\", Doomsday was freed from captivity in a cavern near the center of the Earth by Doctor Psycho and Warp. Doctor Psycho mind-controlled him and used him as the \"spear-carrier\" of a super villain assault on Metropolis. As he came into full view in front of Green Arrow, he was stopped by Kal-El and Kal-L, who made quick work of the villain as, for the first time since the first Crisis, the two Supermen acted as a team.\n\nDoomsday returned in the final page of \"Superman\" (vol. 1) #681, crashing in Metropolis shortly after the representatives of Kandor met with the President. Doomsday was then apparently killed on Earth's moon when Superman, Supergirl, and many of Kandor's inhabitants jumped him to death in \"Action Comics\" #871, crushing the monster's skull.\n\nAfter the fight, Doomsday's mangled corpse ended up in the hands of General Sam Lane, who was in charge of a mysterious government agency determined to halt the Kryptonian \"invasion\" of Earth. It has been hinted at that General Lane sent Doomsday after the Kandorians in the first place, and the creature is only one of the \"weapons\" at Lane's disposal. General Lane put Lex Luthor to work on apparently \"improving\" Doomsday who, by the end of \"New Krypton\", had still not awoken from his most recent death.\n\nDuring the fight, Zor-El (Superman's uncle) told him that Doomsday was created by Kryptonians on ancient Krypton through \"forced evolution\" and, as a result, the creature hates all Kryptonians.\n\nDoomsday returned to carve a new path of destruction throughout the DC Universe. His journey started in the Steel one-shot and continued into \"Outsiders\" #37, \"Justice League of America\" #55, \"Superman/Batman\" Annual #5, \"Superboy\" #6 and into the milestone \"Action Comics\" #900.\nDoomsday, exhibiting an increased, broadened power set which seemed to adapt to each of his opponents, attacked, defeated and abducted Steel, the Cyborg Superman, the Eradicator, Supergirl and Superboy, before taking them to a cloaked satellite at the former location of New Krypton. Superman discovered that this was all part of a plot by Lex Luthor, which had become obsolete. After locating the satellite, Superman attempted to free his allies, only for them all to discover the apparently still-inert body of Doomsday, as well as three separate clones or copies—each with a different power set.\n\nAttempting to flee from the clones with Doomsday, the Superman Family discovered that their ship is now on course for Earth with the potential to trigger an extinction-level event if it were to strike. Their attempt to divert the ship was interrupted by a being called \"Doomslayer\", who resembled a cyborg version of Doomsday and was later revealed to be a Doomsday who was tossed down an infinite tube that gave it time to evolve. Doomslayer effortlessly tore Eradicator apart and proclaimed that Earth must die for the future.\n\nDoomslayer believed the original Doomsday to be an infection, so it planned to destroy Earth, as it considered Earth to be ground zero for Doomsday's \"infection\". Superman and his friends escaped the ship with the original Doomsday and stopped the ship from crashing on Earth, pushing it into Metropolis's bay. Afterward, Doomslayer attacked the city with the Doomsday clones, determined to erase all trace and knowledge of Doomsday from existence. The clones spread across the world, wreaking havoc, while Doomslayer's second plan was to entice the Doomsdays to reach the Earth's core so that he could expand the universe inside the ship's tower and destroy the planet from within, thus erasing all knowledge of Doomsday from the universe.\n\nIn S.T.A.R. Labs, Superman's allies used the original Doomsday's body to try to find a way to stop the Doomsday clones. Doomsday awakened, but Eradicator (who was thought to be killed by Doomslayer) was in control. As Eradicator and the heroes attack the Doomsday clones, he warned that Doomsday's mind was beginning to awaken. In the final battle, a weakened Superman made contact with the ship's artificial intelligence before it reached Earth's core, hoping to have the tower teleport away. Meanwhile, the Doomsday clones were defeated by Earth's heroes and sent back into the pit in which the tower was located. Eradicator arrived and defended Superman, now very weak, from Doomslayer, quickly throwing Superman out of the tower and allowing himself to be trapped with Doomslayer before the tower teleports away.\n\nIn \"The New 52\" (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe), Doomsday made his official debut in September 2013 as a part of \"Villains Month\". In \"Batman/Superman\" #3.1 Doomsday attacked Krypton many years ago when Lara was a lieutenant in the elite military seminary. Colonel Zod faced him wearing an ancient armor of Krypton's warrior founders but their battle caused the death of thousands of Kryptonians. Zod apparently defeated Doomsday sending him to the Phantom Zone. Years later, General Zod, now also imprisoned in the Phantom Zone, communicated with the child Kara Zor-El, telling her how he admired the creature because it destroyed everything, an attribute he seeks in order for his people to be strong as years of complacency have made the Kryptonians weak. Zor-El narrates a prophecy in which the last knight of the House of El will travel to a distant planet after the destruction of Krypton. Doomsday will find and battle the last knight to save his people, but sacrificing his own life to do so.\n\nIn \"Superman/Wonder Woman\", Doomsday mysteriously appears in the North Atlantic Ocean and fights Wonder Woman, breaking her arm before vanishing into thin air. After describing her attacker to Superman, both travel to the Fortress of Solitude where Diana identifies Doomsday on a Phantom Zone viewing device. Superman assumes that the walls of the Phantom Zone are failing, which has allowed the momentary escapes for Doomsday.\n\nMonths later, the creature once again escapes the Phantom Zone to wreak havoc across the globe, changing as it goes into an even deadlier form; now, every living thing in its vicinity dies, and even physical structures crumble. Superman, Wonder Woman, Steel and the Justice League struggle to defeat it, even calling on the aid of Lex Luthor; in the end, Superman drags Doomsday's body to the planet Venus and incinerates it. Believing Doomsday dead, Superman returns to Earth, only to watch in horror as the creature teleports to Earth. Finally realizing he has no choice, Superman kills Doomsday, slicing the monster in half and, as it disintegrates, inhaling its ash-like remains to contain them within his indestructible body. However, soon after, he starts to change; mentally showing signs of exacerbated stress and aggression, and gradually physically as well, resembling Doomsday itself more and more. It is revealed Doomsday was released by the Phantom King (Xa-Du), on instigation of Brainiac; the latter orchestrated it to get rid of Superman as he prepared to assimilate the consciousnesses of all human beings in the world. Superman managed to take control of the raging power and fury of Doomsday for long enough, however, to attack and defeat Brainiac's gigantic mother ship, dragging it into a black hole—ridding himself of the Doomsday infection in the process.\n\nAfter the death of the New 52 Superman, the pre-\"Flashpoint\" Superman appears to confront Lex Luthor as he attempts to proclaim his new role as Metropolis's protector in the absence of the Man of Steel, but their fight is interrupted when Doomsday emerges from a coffin that was being transported by an unidentified group in a hovercar above them. As Superman and Lex attempt to fight the creature, Superman is troubled to realize that this Doomsday operates at a strength level similar to the creature he faced for the first time in his world, but also has some degree of strategic planning, attacking passing trains and civilians to distract Superman and Luthor. As Wonder Woman appears to assist, Doomsday departs, but Superman and Wonder Woman are able to intercept him before he reaches Superman's wife, Lois, and their son Jon. While Wonder Woman takes Lois and Jon to the JLA Watchtower for safety, Superman is confused when an unknown group appears to attack Doomsday, but they are swiftly defeated. He subsequently manages to lure Doomsday to his own makeshift Fortress and use the Phantom Zone projector to trap his foe, but he is unaware that the unknown group led by Mr. Oz intercepted the Phantom Zone beam and have captured Doomsday for their own unknown future purposes.\n\nDoomsday was created through the process of repetitive cloning. The clones were subsequently killed repeatedly by some of the most dangerous species in the universe in one of the harshest habitats in all of existence: prehistoric Krypton. Through cloning technology, the infant continually returned to life and evolved, becoming resistant or immune to whatever killed him before, ultimately permanently acquiring the capability to regenerate and evolve without technology. After the Radiant killed him the first time they fought, Doomsday grew immune to the Radiant's energy-projection and even managed to withstand Darkseid's full Omega-Effect. The amount of damage dealt to Doomsday determined the length of time it took for him to fully recover. During his outwardly undamaged death at Superman's hands, he only needed some days to recover, but when Imperiex reduced him to a skeleton, it took months. His entombment in a Calatonian burial suit and metal vault lasted hundreds of millennia. After being killed by the Radiant and subsequently undergoing the impact of the casket on Earth, his body was sealed underground in total darkness. Deprived of solar energy, necessary to nourish his Kryptonian anatomy, he could only revive extremely slowly and naturally.\n\nDoomsday had a highly accelerated healing factor that allowed him to quickly regenerate from most damage. When his side was cut by Superman with a plasma sword, it closed within moments. As a result of his engineering, Doomsday did not need to eat, drink, breathe, or sleep, and his body was almost solid mass with no internal organs.\n\nDoomsday also was able to develop/evolve resistance from ordinary injuries. Superman once used a sound gun to greatly discomfort him, but Doomsday's auditory canals closed up, making him impervious to Superman's weapon. Waverider once paralyzed Doomsday with energy while seeking to perceive Doomsday's present, but the second attempt backfired as Doomsday triggered a feedback burst that briefly disrupted Waverider.\n\nIn essence, Doomsday gradually became more invulnerable if not injured beyond his ability to recover, which has so far been undefined. Doomsday developed weapons and abilities that countered the powers of an opponent. He managed to cancel out the pure-energy Radiant by slamming into him while generating a dark counter-energy; to greatly extend his claws and develop a poison to strike Superman in flight and reel him in; to breathe flames against the fire-sensitive Martian Manhunter, and apparently neutralize his defensive phase-shifting power. Doomsday's skeleton protruded through his skin in razor-sharp spurs, which provided protection to his few vital organs (brain, eyes and nervous system), and acted as claw-like weapons on his hands, elbows, and knees. In addition, the tips of these protrusions are lethally poisonous.\n\nDoomsday was immensely resistant to heat, cold, and conventional damage, allowing him to survive in the most inhospitable worlds, or in the vacuum of space. His superhuman endurance and invulnerability were able to withstand Darkseid's full-powered \"Omega Effect\" without any apparent damage.\n\nWaverider's words suggest that Doomsday's body could have been completely destroyed after his battle with the Radiant, suggesting that his healing factor has its limits, but it should be noted that at this point Doomsday was left so damaged that he remained 'comatose' for several thousand years while trapped and cut off from the solar energy he required to sustain himself, making it unlikely that anything is capable of doing sufficient damage to him to bring him to this state again after his subsequent evolutions.\n\nDoomsday possessed extreme superhuman strength that, variable as it was, at one point enabled him to effortlessly stand his ground against the entire Justice League, including Superman and Orion. He was able to break Superman's left arm with limited effort, as well as outmatch and beat Darkseid unconscious in combat. However, his strength has limits: the immensely strong Calatonian alloy cables, in which he was entombed, continued to partially restrain him during his initial rampage on Earth, with the last of the cables only being destroyed when the Justice League unleashed a full-power assault to try and stop him. It was never stated how long he had struggled to free his left hand before his escape.\n\nDoomsday possessed seemingly inexhaustible stamina, and was not noticeably slowed down from fighting Superman for an entire day. His speed and agility were vastly disproportionate to his bulky stature, and he was able to match Superman in this regard, once even managing to grab the Flash while the hero was in motion. He could not fly, but traveled by leaping miles at a time. Superman took advantage of this in their first battle by trying to keep him airborne by flying into the sky.\n\nAfter being regrown by Lex Luthor, Doomsday was genetically part-Kryptonian due to his genes having been spliced with Kal-El's. However, with the exception of his flame-breath, he displayed no additional abilities. In fact, he was shown to be weaker than previously when he was single-handedly beaten by Superman. This was attributed to intelligence that he developed, causing him to fear the death that awaited him if he lost, but did not explain how a simple minor concussion could incapacitate his healing factor for the time he remained unconscious. However, he apparently lost his intelligence when he was sent back in time, reverting him to his original state of fearlessness.\n\nOnce he gained some of Superman's Kryptonian DNA, he became susceptible to kryptonite. Unlike Superman, it caused him pain, but could not kill him. This rendered him controllable.\n\nDuring his confrontation with Steel, Doomsday spontaneously developed the power of flight, and the ability to cover his body with metallic armor, capable of resisting even Steel's paralyzing nanites. In a later confrontation with the Outsiders, as he sought to confront the Eradicator, he demonstrated the ability to absorb energy from Looker and Halo's attacks and send it back to them in a massive burst manipulating raw power like the Eradicator. During his battle with the Cyborg-Superman, the Cyborg tore through portions of Doomsday's body, which were quickly replaced with bionic parts of his own, giving itself vast technopathy. And again, when confronting Superboy, the monster showcased a blue glow in its eyes, indicating Tactile Telekinesis power even greater than his own. However, it has since been revealed that these Doomsdays were actually clones of the original, each specifically designed to take out Steel, Henshaw, Eradicator and Superboy, putting them at a disadvantage when pitted against the other Supermen. \n\nIn the DCnU revamp, Doomsday was revealed to grow and evolve in stages since its genesis. Growing as well as gaining in biomass and power over the course of its own development cycle, it was soon revealed that when it killed Superman post reboot, it was only in its larval stage. While undergoing its adolescence phase, the monster created a giant clump of its own biomass as a makeshift cocoon, which steadily built up its physiological structure to its current state by feeding on the natural wildlife around it. Whence it hatched from its incubator, Doomsday became only that much greater an extinction level threat. Now, able to move to and from the phantom zone at will, using it as a hub for spontaneous teleportation. This was made possible due to its physical strength being vastly augmented to the point it could breach the dimensional barrier through physical force alone. He'd grown so powerful in such a short amount of time that the creature could overpower the demigoddess Diana of Themyscira in a straight forward battle with ease, going so far as to break both of her arms. \n\nDoomsday was still in the stages of his evolution, to help it along he developed a form of death aura which sapped the life out of anything and everything around him within a couple hundred yards. Growing more and more powerful the more he killed and the more lifeforce he consumed, an extension of this power was a toxic spore cloud he emitted from his own body which expedited the leeching process. Doomsday's deadly miasma had the effect of making everything around him wither and die at an accelerated rate; such as sand glossing over into black onyx, sentient life burst' into flames several meters away, even buildings spontaneously dissolving at a molecular level upon exposure to his poisonous fugue. Even a solar powered Kryptonian couldn't stand to be in his presence for more than a few minutes at a time. The virulent also has the effect of turning anyone and everyone affected by it into an iteration of Doomsday himself. Moreover, those who kill him become a receptacle for his essential self, taking on his more vicious and bloodthirsty characteristics as well as his powers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16995465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16995465", "title": "Fadel Shana'a", "text": "Fadel Shana'a\n\nFadel Shana'a (27 March 1984 – 16 April 2008) was a Palestinian journalist working as a cameraman for Reuters. He was killed, along with eight bystanders (aged 12 to 20) by a flechette shell fired by an Israeli tank in the Gaza Strip (the Al Bureij massacre).\n\nShana'a's video footage shows the tank firing and a glimpse of the incoming shell before going black at the moment of impact. The then Reuters Editor-in-chief David Schlesinger called for an investigation, as did Human Rights Watch, whose Middle East director stated, \"Israeli soldiers did not make sure they were aiming at a military target before firing, and there is evidence suggesting they actually targeted the journalists.\" The Al Mezan Center for Human Rights denounced the killing as a deliberate war crime.\n\nThe Israel Defense Forces (IDF) released a statement saying \"The IDF wishes to emphasize that unlike terrorist organizations, not only does it not deliberately target uninvolved civilians, it also uses means to avoid such incidents... Reports claiming the opposite are false and misleading.\" On 13 August 2008, it was reported that the IDF had closed an investigation into the death of Shana'a without taking disciplinary action against the tank crew that killed him. \"In light of the reasonable conclusion reached by the tank crew and its superiors, that the characters were hostile and were carrying an object most likely to be a weapon, the decision to fire at the targets ... was sound\", the then Chief Military Advocate General Avichai Mandelblit said in a letter sent to Reuters. David Schlesinger said that \"I'm extremely disappointed that this report condones a disproportionate use of deadly force in a situation the army itself admitted had not been analysed clearly\" and \"They would appear to take the view that any raising of a camera into position could garner a deadly response\". In a statement issued at its London headquarters, Reuters said the army probe could effectively give soldiers a \"free hand to kill,\" without being sure of the identity of their targets.\n\nThousands attended the funeral of Shana'a in Gaza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "411887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411887", "title": "Faithfulness", "text": "Faithfulness\n\nFaithfulness is the concept of unfailingly remaining loyal to someone or something, and putting that loyalty into consistent practice regardless of extenuating circumstances. It may be exhibited by a husband or wife who, in a sexually exclusive marriage, does not engage in sexual relationships outside of the marriage. It can also mean keeping to one's promises no matter the prevailing circumstances. Literally, it is the state of being full of faith in the sense of steady devotion to a person, thing or concept.\n\nIts etymology is distantly related to that of fidelity; indeed, in modern electronic devices, a machine with high \"fidelity\" is considered \"faithful\" to its source material, whereas a spouse who, inside a sexually exclusive relationship, has sexual relations outside of marriage could equally be considered as being \"unfaithful\" as having committed \"infidelity\".\n\nFaithfulness in the marriage is a virtue in Christianity. In Catholicism, it is one of the four pillars of marriage. In other Christian churches (Orthodoxy, Protestantism, Evangelicalism), it is an ethical invitation. It is a commitment in Jewish marriage, and an obligation of Islam.\n\n"}
{"id": "32451678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32451678", "title": "Gunnar Christian Brøvig", "text": "Gunnar Christian Brøvig\n\nGunnar Christian Brøvig (30 August 1907 – 8 September 1944) was a Norwegian ship-owner and resistance member.\n\nHe was born in Farsund as a son of Tharald Brøvig, Sr. and Cecilie Catharina, née Hoff. He had the much younger brother Harald Nikolai Brøvig and the sister Andrea Brøvig, who married Olav Selvaag. He had married Ragnhild Mørch in Borge in 1940, and they lived in Farsund. The couple had one child; the son Tharald Brøvig, Jr.\n\nBrøvig had the cand.jur. degree, and after serving some time as a deputy judge he worked in the shipping business. From 1938 he was the leader of his father's company Th. Brøvig.\n\nDuring the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany he worked with illegal transport of refugees from the Nazi regime. He was a member of the resistance within Sivorg. He was arrested on 18 March 1944, and was incarcerated in Arkivet until 13 May, then in Grini concentration camp to 6 September 1944. He was then shipped on board the prisoner transport ship SS \"Westfalen\". On 7 September 1944 the ship sank off Marstrand, probably hit by a naval mine. Seventy-eight people aboard survived, but most of the Norwegian prisoners-of-war were casualties, including Brøvig.\n"}
{"id": "49921046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49921046", "title": "H+, Na+-translocating pyrophosphatase family", "text": "H+, Na+-translocating pyrophosphatase family\n\nMembers of the H, Na-translocating Pyrophosphatase (M\"-PPase)\" Family (TC# 3.A.10) are found in the vacuolar (tonoplast) membranes of higher plants, algae, and protozoa, and in both bacteria and archaea. They are therefore ancient enzymes.\n\nFull-length members of the H-PPase family have been sequenced from numerous bacteria, archaea and eukaryotes. These H pumping enzymes, which are probably homodimeric, have been reported to fall into two phylogenetic subfamilies. One subfamily invariably contains a conserved cysteine (Cys) and includes all known K-independent H-PPases, while the other has another conserved cysteine (Cys) but lacks Cys and includes all known K-dependent H-PPases. All H-PPases require Mg, and those from plant vacuoles, acidocalcisomes of protozoa and fermentative bacteria require mM K. Those from respiratory and photosynthetic bacteria as well as archaea are less dependent upon K. However, exceptions may exist. It is not sure whether K is transported.\n\nThe archaeon, \"Methanosarcina\" \"mazei\" Gö1, encodes within its genome two H-translocating pyrophosphatases (PPases), Mvp1 and Mvp2. Mvp1 resembles bacterial PPases while Mvp2 resembles plant PPases. Mvp2 was shown to translocate 1 H per pyrophosphate hydrolyzed.\n\nSome PPases from \"Anaerostipes caccae\", \"Chlorobium limicola\", \"Clostridium tetani\", and \"Desulfuromonas acetoxidans\" have been identified as K-dependent Na transporters. Phylogenetic analysis led to the identification of a monophyletic clade comprising characterized and predicted Na-transporting PPases (Na-PPases) within the K-dependent subfamily. H-transporting PPases (H-PPases) are more heterogeneous and form at least three independent clades in both subfamilies.\n\nThe plant enzymes probably pump one H upon hydrolysis of pyrophosphate, thereby generating a proton motive force, positive and acidic in the tonoplast lumen. They establish a pmf of similar magnitude to that generated by the H-translocating ATPases in the same vacuolar membrane. The bacterial and archaeal proteins may catalyze fully reversible reactions, thus being able to synthesize pyrophosphate when the pmf is sufficient. The enzyme from \"R. rubrum\" contributes to the pmf when light intensity is insufficient to generate a pmf sufficient in magnitude to support rapid ATP synthesis. Both C-termini of the dimeric subunits of V-PPase are on the same side of the membrane, and they are close to each other. Transmembrane domain 6 of vacuolar H-pyrophosphatase appears to mediate both protein targeting and proton transport.\n\nThe generalized transport reaction catalyzed by H-PPases is:pyrophosphate (P) + HO + H (cytoplasm) → inorganic phosphate (2 P) + H (external milieu or vacuolar lumen).\n\nEukaryotic members of the H-PPase family are large proteins of about 770 amino acyl residues (aas) with fifteen or sixteen putative transmembrane α-helical spanners (TMSs). The N-termini are predicted to be in the vacuolar lumen while the C-termini are thought to be in the cytoplasm. These proteins exhibit a region that shows convincing sequence similarity to the regions surrounding the DCCD-sensitive glutamate in the C-terminal regions of the c-subunits of F-type ATPases (TC #3.A.2). The H-pyrophosphatase of \"Streptomyces coelicolor\" has been shown to have a 17 TMS topology with the substrate binding domain exposed to the cytoplasm. The C-terminus is hydrophilic with a single C-terminal TMS. The basic structure is believed to have 16 TMSs with several large cytoplasmic loops containing functional motifs. Several acidic residues in the \"Arabidopsis\" H-PPase have been shown to be important for function. Some plants possess closely related H-PPase isoforms. These enzymes have the enzyme commission number EC 3.6.1.1.\n\nLin et al. (2012) reported the crystal structure of a \"Vigna radiata\" H-PPase (VrH-PPase) in complex with a non-hydrolysable substrate analogue, imidodiphosphate (IDP), at 2.35 Å resolution. Each VrH-PPase subunit consists of an integral membrane domain formed by 16 transmembrane helices. IDP is bound in the cytosolic region of each subunit and trapped by numerous charged residues and five Mg ions. A previously undescribed proton translocation pathway is formed by six core transmembrane helices. Proton pumping can be initialized by PP(i) hydrolysis, and H is then transported into the vacuolar lumen through a pathway consisting of Arg 242, Asp 294, Lys 742 and Glu 301. Lin et al. (2012) proposed a working model of the mechanism for the coupling between proton pumping and PP(i) hydrolysis by H-PPases. Membrane-integral pyrophosphatases (M-PPases) are crucial for the survival of plants, bacteria, and protozoan parasites. They couple pyrophosphate hydrolysis or synthesis to Na or H pumping. The 2.6Å structure of \"Thermotoga maritima\" H-PPase in the resting state revealed a previously unknown solution for ion pumping. The hydrolytic center, 20 angstroms above the membrane, is coupled to the gate formed by the conserved Asp(243), Glu(246), and Lys(707) by an unusual 'coupling funnel' of six α helices. Helix 12 slides down upon substrate binding to open the gate by a simple binding-change mechanism. Below the gate, four helices form the exit channel. Superimposing helices 3 to 6, 9 to 12, and 13 to 16 suggests that M-PPases arose through gene triplication. By comparing the active sites, fluoride inhibition data and the various models for ion transport, Kajander et al. concluded that membrane-integral PPases probably use binding of pyrophosphate to drive pumping.\n\n"}
{"id": "36529009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36529009", "title": "Human Research Program", "text": "Human Research Program\n\nThe Human Research Program (HRP) was created in October 2005 at Johnson Space Center (JSC) in response to NASA's desire to move human research project management away from headquarters to JSC and to focus its research investment on investigating and mitigating the highest risks to astronaut health and performance in support of exploration missions. The HRP is an applied research and technology program that investigates and mitigates risks to astronaut health and performance in support of exploration missions and provides countermeasures and technologies for human space exploration.\n\nThe goal of the HRP is to provide human health and performance countermeasures, knowledge, technologies and tools to enable safe, reliable and productive human space exploration. The Human Research Program also aims to educate the public on the challenges of human space flight. \n\nThe Human Research Roadmap (HRR) is a web-based tool that is used to communicate the content of the Integrated Research Plan (IRP). The IRP is utilized to identify the approach and research activities planned to address risks to human health and performance in space which are assigned to specific Elements within the program.\n\nWith this tool, users can search for items as gaps associated with a risk, the tasks associated with a given gap, the cross-integration of a task across multiple gaps or risks and deliverables associated with a gap or risk.\n\nReviews of the accumulated evidence from medical records, space flight operations and research findings are compiled into Evidence Reports. This evidence provides the basis for identifying the highest priority human risks in space exploration, which comprise the risk portfolio within the HRP. It also provides the basis for identifying gaps and tasks in the research plan.\n\nRisks include physiological effects of radiation, low gravity, terrestrial environments as well as unique challenges in medical support, human factors and behavioral health support. Risks are identified in the Program Requirements Document (PRD) and assigned to an Element within HRP to quantify, mitigate or monitor.\n\nA current list of risks being evaluated can be found at the portal as well as at the HRR website.\n\nFor each risk, the HRP Element identifies gaps in knowledge about the risk and the ability to mitigate the risk. The degree of uncertainty in understanding the likelihood, consequence and/or time-frame of a particular risk are the major factors that drive the gaps. Knowledge or mitigation gaps often appear in multiple risks, and many of the specific research tasks address multiple gaps.\n\nTasks partially or completely close a gap by better defining a risk or developing mitigation strategies to reduce the risk to an acceptable level. In some cases, a task can address multiple gaps across multiple risks.\n\nEach task culminates in a deliverable or other agreed upon end-product such as recommended standards, flight rules, processes, countermeasures and new technology.\n\nThere are currently seven elements in the HRP.\n\nInternational Space Station Medical Project<br>\nSpace Radiation Program Element<br>\nHuman Health Countermeasures<br>\nExploration Medical Capability<br>\nBehavioral Health and Performance<br>\nSpace Human Factors and Habitability<br>\nScience Management Office\n\nThe following experiments serve as Earth-based (terrestrial) analogs for the space flight environment.\n\nAntarctica<br>\nBed Rest Studies<br>\nDesert Research and Technology Studies (D-RATS)<br>\nHaughton Mars Project - Research Station<br>\nNASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NEEMO)<br>\nHuman-Related Altitude Chamber Complex\n\nPlease see the Human Research Roadmap website or NASA's Human Research Project website for up-to-date information on the risks currently under investigation.\n\nThe Life Science Data Archive (LSDA) contains research data from NASA sponsored research.\n\nThe Lifetime Surveillance of Astronaut Health (LSAH) is a repository of electronic health records of all astronauts and mission data which is collected according to the requirements set forth in the Medical Requirements Integration Document (MRID).\n"}
{"id": "43185487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43185487", "title": "Humane Slaughter Association", "text": "Humane Slaughter Association\n\nThe Humane Slaughter Association (HSA) supports research, training, and development to improve the welfare of livestock during transport and slaughter. It provides technical information about handling and slaughter on its website, training for farmer staff and vets, advice to governments and industry, and funding of science and technology to make slaughter more humane. HSA is the sister charity to Universities Federation for Animal Welfare.\n\nIn 1911, the Council of Justice to Animals (CJA) was created to improve the slaughter of livestock and address the killing of unwanted pets. Novelist Thomas Hardy was a member. In 1928, CJA merged with the Humane Slaughter of Animals Association to become the Council of Justice for Animals and the Humane Slaughter Association, which is most often called \"the HSA.\". On 1 April 2016 the Humane Slaughter Association became a charitable incorporated organization and the Council of Justice for Animals was dropped from the name.\n\nIn the early 1920s, HSA introduced and demonstrated a mechanical stunner, which led to the adoption of humane stunning \"by 28 London boroughs and later by 494 other local authorities.\" HSA helped improve water, shelter, and handling conditions at animal markets. It lobbied for transporting cattle by train instead of on foot, and in 1941, rail lines were built to a major slaughterhouse for this reason.\n\nHSA played a key role in passage of\nHSA was asked for its views on the UK Slaughterhouses Act 1958 and the Prevention of Cruelty and Hygiene Regulations. HSA was mentioned in the House of Lords debates over UK's Slaughter of Poultry Act 1967.\n\nHSA aims to encourage research and development of more humane livestock-slaughter methods with its Humane Slaughter Award, which recognizes \"individuals or organisations, based anywhere in the world, whose work has resulted in significant advances in the humane slaughter of farmed livestock.\"\n\nHSA has given a total of 48 Dorothy Sidley Scholarships of £2,000 each \"to enable students or trainees in the industry to carry out a project which is clearly aimed at improving the welfare of food animals in markets, during transport or at slaughter.\" Research supported has included the welfare of sheep while transported at sea, handling methods for poultry, rejection of carcases in religious slaughter, and captive-bolt stunning of alpacas.\n\nIn 2011, HSA gave a Research Training Scholarship for PhD research to Jessica Hopkins of the Scottish Agricultural College for exploration of humane mechanical methods to kill sick or injured chickens in emergency situations on farms, as an improvement over cervical dislocation, which is thought to not be completely humane. The research has been presented at several conferences.\n\nHSA offers grants \"for essential research and other projects aimed at improving animal welfare during transport, in markets and at slaughter.\" Past grants have addressed livestock transport vehicle emergencies, monitoring atmosphere stunning of poultry, and electrical stunning on sea bass.\n\nA 2004 HSA workshop in Lochearnhead, Scotland demonstrated an electric stunner for farmed trout. Electric stunning of farmed fish has since been widely adopted at least in the UK.\n\nIn 2011, to celebrate its year, HSA organized the symposium \"Recent Advances in the Welfare of Livestock at Slaughter\", which was attended by 250 people from around the world. The event featured over a dozen presentations, including one by Temple Grandin.\n\nIn 2013, HSA convened a workshop on Low Atmospheric Pressure Stunning (LAPS), a proposal to kill chickens by withdrawing air from a chamber over the course of 5 minutes. The lack of oxygen induces unconsciousness without a rise in heart rate and with brain activity that resembles a sleep-like state before death.\n\nHSA offers training courses to farmers (large-scale, small-scale, and hobbyist), slaughter workers, and students. For example, here is a subset of the trainings HSA conducted during 2009-2010:\nHSA educational materials have won International Visual Communications Awards in 1995 and 2000 and the Meat Industry Awards Training Initiative of the Year, Poultry Welfare in 2006.\n\nHSA also provides advice to meat producers, governments, and academics. At the request of a producer or retailer, it performs inspections of slaughterhouses and livestock markets to assess animal welfare and suggest improvements.\n\n"}
{"id": "190235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190235", "title": "Humanistic education", "text": "Humanistic education\n\nHumanistic education (also called person-centered education) is an approach to education based on the work of humanistic psychologists, most notably Abraham Maslow and Carl Rogers. Carl Rogers has been called the \"Father of Humanistic Psychology\" and devoted much of his efforts toward applying the results of his psychological research to person-centered teaching where empathy, caring about students, and genuineness on the part of the learning facilitator were found to be the key traits of the most effective teachers. He edited a series of books dealing with humanistic education in his \"Studies of the Person Series,\" which included his book, \"Freedom to Learn\" and \"Learning to Feel - Feeling to Learn - Humanistic Education for the Whole Man,\" by Harold C. Lyon, Jr. In the 1970s the term \"humanistic education\" became less popular after conservative groups equated it with \"Secular Humanism\" and attacked the writings of Harold Lyon as being anti-Christian. That began a successful effort by Aspy, Lyon, Rogers, and others to re-label it \"person-centered teaching\", replacing the term \"humanistic education.\" In a more general sense the term includes the work of other humanistic pedagogues, such as Rudolf Steiner, and Maria Montessori. All of these approaches seek to engage the \"whole person\": the intellect, feeling life, social capacities, and artistic and practical skills are all important focuses for growth and development. Important objectives include developing children's self-esteem, their ability to set and achieve appropriate goals, and their development toward full autonomy.\n\nHumanistic education has its roots in Renaissance philosophers who emphasised the study of the humanities: grammar, rhetoric, history, poetry, and moral philosophy; these in turn built upon Classical models of education.\n\nThe growing Humanist-inspired emphasis on education in Scotland cumulated with the passing of the Education Act 1496.\n\nThe humanistic approach places a great deal of emphasis on students' choice and control over the course of their education. Students are encouraged to make choices that range from day-to-day activities to periodically setting future life goals. This allows for students to focus on a specific subject of interest for any amount of time they choose, within reason. Humanistic teachers believe it is important for students to be motivated and engaged in the material they are learning, and this happens when the topic is something the students need and want to know.\n\nHumanistic education tends to focus on the felt concerns and interests of the students intertwining with the intellect. It is believed that the overall mood and feeling of the students can either hinder or foster the process of learning.\n\nHumanistic educators believe that both feelings and knowledge are important to the learning process. Unlike traditional educators, humanistic teachers do not separate the cognitive and affective domains. This aspect also relates to the curriculum in the sense that lessons and activities provide focus on various aspects of the student and not just rote memorization through note taking and lecturing.\n\nHumanistic educators believe that grades are irrelevant and that only self-evaluation is meaningful. Grading encourages students to work for a grade and not for intrinsic satisfaction. Humanistic educators disagree with routine testing because they teach students rote memorization as opposed to meaningful learning. They also believe testing doesn't provide sufficient educational feedback to the teacher.\n\n\"The tutor or lecturer tends to be more supportive than critical, more understanding than judgmental, more genuine than playing a role.\" Their job is to foster an engaging environment for the students and ask inquiry-based questions that promote meaningful learning.\n\nDavid Aspy and Flora Roebuck performed the largest field study ever done, in 42 states and 7 countries, in the 1970s and 80s, funded by the National Institute of Mental Health over a 12-year period, focusing on what led to achievement, creativity, more student thinking and interactivity, less violence, and both teacher and student satisfaction. Their conclusions corroborated the earlier findings of Carl Rogers's that the more effective teachers were empathic, caring for or prizing their students, and were authentic or genuine in their classroom presence. In 2010 Jeffrey Cornelius-White and Adam Harbaugh published a large meta-analysis on Learner Centered Instruction including in their analysis all the higher quality studies on person-centered or humanistic education ever done since 1948. In 2013, Rogers, Lyon, and Tausch published \"On Becoming an Effective Teacher -- Person-centered Teaching, Psychology, Philosophy, and Dialogues with Carl R. Rogers and Harold Lyon\", which contained Rogers' last unpublished work on teaching and documented the research results of four highly related, independent studies which comprise the largest collection of data ever accumulated to test a person-centered theory in the field of education.\n\nThe environment in a school which focuses their practice on humanistic education tends to have a very different setting than a traditional school. It consist of both indoor and outdoor environments with a majority of time being spent outdoors. The indoor setting may contain a few tables and chairs, bean bags for quiet reading and relaxation, book shelves, hide-aways, kitchens, lots of color and art posted on the walls. The outdoor environment is very engaging for students. You might find tree houses, outdoor kitchens, sand boxes, play sets, natural materials, sporting activities etc. The wide range of activities are offered for students allowing for free choices of interest.\n\nA number of contemporary school movements incorporate humanistic perspectives within a larger, holistic context: these include the Waldorf, Montessori, Reggio Emilia, and Neohumanist schools. These originated independently of the humanistic psychology movement and at least some of them incorporate spiritual perspectives absent from the traditional humanistic approach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21573718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21573718", "title": "HyperNEAT", "text": "HyperNEAT\n\nHypercube-based NEAT, or HyperNEAT, is a generative encoding that evolves artificial neural networks (ANNs) with the principles of the widely used NeuroEvolution of Augmented Topologies (NEAT) algorithm. It is a novel technique for evolving large-scale neural networks using the geometric regularities of the task domain. It uses Compositional Pattern Producing Networks (CPPNs), which are used to generate the images for Picbreeder.org and shapes for EndlessForms.com. HyperNEAT has recently been extended to also evolve plastic ANNs and to evolve the location of every neuron in the network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1944940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944940", "title": "Internal fertilization", "text": "Internal fertilization\n\nInternal fertilization is the union of an egg cell with a sperm during sexual reproduction inside the body of a parent. For this to happen there needs to be a method for the male to introduce the sperm into the female's reproductive tract. In mammals, reptiles, some birds, some fish and certain other groups of animals, this is done by copulation, the penis or other intromittent organ being introduced into the vagina or cloaca. In most birds, the cloacal kiss is used, the two animals pressing their cloacas together while transferring sperm. Salamanders, spiders, some insects and some molluscs undertake internal fertilization by transferring a spermatophore, a bundle of sperm, from the male to the female. Following fertilization, the embryos are laid as eggs in oviparous organisms, or in viviparous organisms, continue to develop inside the reproductive tract of the mother to be born later as live young. In some animals like in sponges fertilization is internal\n\nFertilization which takes place inside the female body is called internal fertilization in animals is done through the following different ways:\n\nAt some point, the growing egg or offspring must be expelled. There are several possible modes of reproduction. These are traditionally classified as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31305387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31305387", "title": "Into Thin Air: Death on Everest", "text": "Into Thin Air: Death on Everest\n\nInto Thin Air: Death on Everest is a 1997 American disaster television film based on Jon Krakauer's memoir \"Into Thin Air\" (1997). The film, directed by Robert Markowitz and written by Robert J. Avrech, tells the story of the 1996 Mount Everest disaster. It was broadcast on the American Broadcasting Company on November 9, 1997.\n\nThe film portrays the 1996 Mount Everest disaster and the events that preceded it. The film mainly follows Jon Krakauer, the author of the book on which the film is based (\"Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster\" (1997)); it also follows the climbing teams of summit guides Rob Hall and Scott Fischer.\n\nThe film begins with Krakauer giving a monologue about the events about the disaster. The guides, Rob Hall (Nat Parker), and Scott Fischer (Peter Horton) introduce themselves, their teams, and discuss with the clients how they intend to reach the summit by the set date. Hall's group contains Doug Hansen, a mailman from Seattle, Krakauer, Yasuko Namba, and several others. Fischer's group contains a New York socialite, Sandy Pittman, who will perform what Krakauer does for Hall's group, reporting and bring attention. At base camp, Hall speaks with his pregnant wife Jan, in New Zealand, about potential names for their daughter. The groups slowly make their way through camps 2, 3, and 4, and then begin their ascent for the summit. However, in camp 2, Fischer is forced to go all the way back down, so he can take a sick client, Dale Cruz, down for help. Scott refuses help, and returns exhausted and out of breath.\n\nThe ascent begins well, with both groups making steady pace. However, upon reaching the bottom of the Hillary step, they realize that there are no fixed ropes. The Sherpa there states it's a two-person job, and the other Sherpa never arrived, mostly due to being too tired and sick from dragging Pittman and all of her heavy equipment all the way up. Mountain Madness guides Anatoli Boukreev and Neil Beidelman set the fixed ropes, but by then dozens of climbers had already reached the step, and now a large jam is at the bottom. Krakauer continues up, and reaches the summit with Anatoli Boukreev, where shortly afterward they are joined by Adventure Consultants guide Andy Harris. Krakauer begins his descent, but reaches the step only the find the jam has only gotten worse, and is forced to wait it out. Meanwhile, Hall is forced to tell client Doug Hansen that they have to turn around and go back. Hansen refuses, as he failed to reach the summit the year before, and he knows he won't be able to afford a third attempt. Hall and Hansen argue before Hall finally caves in and they continue, missing Hall's 2:00 PM turnaround time. Finally, the path down the step clears and Harris begins to descend; Krakauer meanwhile begins to hallucinate from a lack of oxygen. Earlier he had asked Harris to decrease his oxygen flow, but Harris instead increased it, and Krakauer nearly falls over the side, but manages to catch himself. He makes his way down the step and to Harris, and realizes something is wrong with Harris, who thinks the completely full bottles at the oxygen drop are empty. As he descends, he runs into Hansen and Hall, and points out to Hansen that storm clouds are making their way up through the valley and up the mountain.\n\nShortly after 3 PM, the majority of Hall's and Fischer's groups finally reach the summit. As Krakauer continues his descent, he runs into Scott Fischer, who is completely exhausted and refuses to turn around. Shortly after 4 PM, Rob Hall and Doug Hansen finally reach the summit, where Hall remarks to Hansen that a storm is coming. As he continues to go down, and the weather starts to get bad, Krakauer runs into Beck Weathers, sitting alone by himself in snow. Weathers had eye surgery performed prior to the trip, and has lost vision in his eyes during the summit ascent. He declines to leave with Krakauer, explaining he had promised Rob Hall that he would wait for him to go down. At 4:30, Fischer and his Sherpa, Lopsang, finally reach the summit where Scott feels ill and collapses. Around 5, Krakauer finally reaches the tents at camp 4, where he goes to sleep. The weather continues to worsen, and later, Beidelman, Mike Groom, and the majority of both teams' clients stop to rest, where they run into Beck Weathers, who agrees to descend with them. Storm clouds and thick snowfall cause the guides to lose their positions and not know where they need to go. Higher on the mountain, Hall and Hansen watch as Scott Fischer is dragged by them, so weak he can no longer stand.\n\nNight falls, and Krakauer is awoken in his tent by Rob's Sherpa, Angdorjee, who informs him that the storm is getting increasingly worse, and that Rob and majority of the clients have yet to return. The pair make an attempt to find them, but quickly turn back when they realize the conditions are too treacherous. Meanwhile, Rob attempts to convince Doug to stand up and continue descending, but Doug begs Rob to leave him, telling Rob he will die if he attempts to save him. Rob refuses to leave him behind, and they continue. Scott, suffering from edema, walks off the side of the mountain, and is only saved when his Sherpa pulls him back up with their connected short rope. Scott then begins to fall into unconsciousness, and Lopsang radios for help. Rob continues to struggle down with Doug. In the darkness, Rob slips and falls down, and becomes separated from a hallucinating Doug. He then watches helplessly as Doug, too far away to help, tumbles over the side to his death. Rob is then found by Andy, who attempts to help him up. Andy then leaves, telling Rob he is going to get help. Despite Rob's plea's, Andy continues to go. Andy disappears from view. Rob then hears him cry out, and crawls forward to find Andy's hat lying next to a large drop off, and assumes that Andy has fallen to his death. Rob, buried under snow, communicates with Krakauer attempting to get direction on where he can find oxygen. He gets direction, but then falls down again, and begins to moan. The oxygen bottles are then revealed to be less than twenty feet away from him, but he doesn't see them. Beidelman and Groom's group becomes hopelessly lost, and they take only the clients who can walk with them, dropping Yasuko, Beck, Sandy Pittman, and Charlotte Fox. Scott continues to drift in and out of consciousness, only muttering the words \"I am invincible\" to his Sherpa, before again losing consciousness. Anatoli Boukreev appears, and helps down Charlotte Fox and Pittman, but is unable to get a third client. Rob begins to hallucinate about seeing his wife Jan, but then snaps outs of it, to realize he is still stuck. He also begins to realize that his hands and his legs are getting extremely frostbitten, and he is having trouble moving. He then blacks out again.\n\nRob then awakens the next morning, to realize that he is still alive, but barely. He radios the camp, who put him onto the radio with his wife Jan. He asks her if Sarah would be an appropriate name for their daughter, and she agrees. They both tell each other they love them, and then Rob says goodbye to his wife. He dies shortly afterward from hypothermia. Beck Weathers then wakes up, somehow having survived being buried under the snow with no oxygen. Still blinded, he stumbles back to camp, where he receives help. Meanwhile, Anatoli climbs up, and finds the now frozen corpse of Scott Fischer. He says goodbye, and after pulling Fischer's backpack over his face, he leaves. Back at base camp the survivors reminisce about the friends that they have lost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39560038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39560038", "title": "J. Adlam (cricketer)", "text": "J. Adlam (cricketer)\n\nJ. Adlam (full name and dates of birth and death unknown) was an English first-class cricketer. \n\nAdlam made two first-class appearances for All-England sides against Kent at Lord's, and Sussex at the Royal New Ground, with both matches played in 1834. He scored 7 runs in his two matches, in which he batted three times, top–scoring with 7.\n\n"}
{"id": "3387858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3387858", "title": "Karl Struss", "text": "Karl Struss\n\nKarl Struss, A.S.C. (November 30, 1886 – December 15, 1981) was an American photographer and a cinematographer of the 1900s through the 1950s. He was also one of the earliest pioneers of 3-D films. While he mostly worked on films, such as F. W. Murnau's \"\" and Charlie Chaplin's \"The Great Dictator\" and \"Limelight\", he was also one of the cinematographers for the television series \"Broken Arrow\" and photographed 19 episodes of \"My Friend Flicka\".\n\nKarl Struss was born in New York, New York, in 1886. After an illness in high school, Karl's father, Henry, removed his son from school and placed him as a labor operator at Seybel & Struss bonnet wire factory. He began to develop an interest in photography, experimenting with an 8 x 10 camera, and, beginning in 1908, attended Clarence H. White's evening art photography course at Teachers College, Columbia University, concluding his studies in 1912 Early in his studies, he explored the properties of camera lenses and eventually invented, in 1909, what he attempted to patent as the Struss Pictorial Lens, a soft-focus lens This lens was considered popular with pictorial photographers of the time. The Struss Pictorial lens was the first soft-focus lens introduced into the motion picture industry in 1916.\n\nInitially, Struss gained attention in the photo world when twelve of his pictorial works were chosen by Alfred Stieglitz for the Albright Art Gallery International Exhibition of Pictorial Photography in 1910. This was the final exhibition of the Photo-Secession, an organization that promoted photography as fine art. Struss' reputation was solidified by his inclusion in the exhibition \"What the Camera Does in the Hand of the Artist\" at the Newark Art Museum, held in April 1911, and an invitation by the Teacher's College for Struss to organize a one-person exhibition of his views of New York as well as to teach White's course in the summer of 1912 while White was away. Struss was invited by Stieglitz to join the Photo-Secession in 1912, which led to the publication of Struss' photographs in the group's magazine \"Camera Work\". In 1913 Struss, in collaboration with Edward Dickson, Clarence White, Alvin Langdon Coburn, and Paul Anderson, began their own publication, \"Platinum Print\". In 1914, he resigned his position at the family business and asserted his identity as a professional photographer by assuming Clarence White's former studio space in June of that year \n\nAt the suggestion of Coburn, Struss submitted prints to the American Invitational Section of the annual exhibition of the Royal Photographic Society in London, initiating an exhibiting practice he would continue into the 1920s. He also participated in numerous exhibitions organized by photography clubs and other associations, including the Pittsburgh Salon of National Photographic Art and the annual photography display organized by the Philadelphia department store Wanamaker's. As Struss continued his exhibitions and specialized commissions, he produced commercial photography for magazines including \"Vogue\", \"Vanity Fair\", and \"Harper's Bazaar\". (However, he was quick to insist that he was not doing \"fashion\" photography.) His photographic practice was interrupted by World War I. In 1917, he registered for the draft and then enlisted with the aim of fulfilling his military service through photography. He trained to teach aerial photography but an investigation into Struss's German affiliations launched by the Military Intelligence Department led to his demotion from the rank of Sergeant to private and, after a limbo period in confinement in Ithaca, New York, where he had originally gone to teach in the new School of Military Aeronautics, a transfer to Fort Leavenworth to serve as a prison guard and then as a file clerk. In the latter role, he took up photography again, documenting the prisoners. Near the close of the war, in an attempt to clear his record of rumors of anti-Americanism, he applied and was accepted into Officer's Training Camp at the rank of corporal. While Struss was eventually honorably discharged, it is likely that the failure of his business in New York in his absence and the fracturing of many of his professional relationships in the wake of the military investigation led him to be disinclined to resume his former roles in New York.\n\nIn 1919, after his discharge, he moved to Los Angeles and signed on with Cecil B. DeMille as a cameraman, initially for the film \"For Better, For Worse\" starring Gloria Swanson, followed by another Swanson film \"Male and Female\" and leading to a two-year contract with the studio In early 1921, he married Ethel Wall, who helped to support him in his photographic work independent of the film studios, which included pictorial views set in California In the 1920s, Struss worked on such films as \"Ben-Hur\" and F. W. Murnau's \"Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans\". In 1927, he contracted with United Artists, where he worked with D. W. Griffith on such films as \"Drums of Love\" and also filmed Mary Pickford's first talking film \"Coquette\" He continued his experimental work with camera technology, developing the \"Lupe Light\" and a new bracket system for the Bell & Howell camera \n\nFrom 1931 through 1945, Struss worked as a cameraman for Paramount, where he worked on a variety of material including films featuring Mae West, Bing Crosby, and Dorothy Lamour Struss also aimed to shape the field through publishing; for example, in 1934 he authored \"Photographic Modernism and the Cinematographer\" for \"American Cinematographer\". Struss was later admitted to the American Society of Cinematographers, and was a founding member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts. In 1949, while working as a freelancer, he began his work in \"stereo cinematography\", becoming one of the first proponents of that art form. Unfortunately, he did most of his 3D film work in Italy and none of his films were subsequently released in 3D in the United States.\n\nStruss's photographic archive of exhibition prints, film stills, negatives and papers (3 linear feet of materials) is available at the Amon Carter Museum of American Art located in Fort Worth, Texas.\n\nIn his career, Struss was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Cinematography four times. The first time, and the only time he won, was for F. W. Murnau's \"\" in 1929, sharing that award with Charles Rosher. He was nominated again in 1932 for \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\", in 1934 for \"The Sign of the Cross\", and in 1942 for \"Aloma of the South Seas\" with Wilfred M. Cline, A.S.C. and William E. Snyder, A.S.C.\n\n"}
{"id": "325875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325875", "title": "King Ghidorah", "text": "King Ghidorah\n\nAlthough King Ghidorah's design has remained largely consistent throughout its appearances (an armless, bipedal, golden-scaled bat-winged dragon with three heads and two tails), its origin story has varied from being an extraterrestrial planet-killing dragon, a genetically engineered monster from the future, or a guardian monster of ancient Japan. The character is usually portrayed as an archenemy of Godzilla and Mothra, though it has had one appearance as an ally of the latter.\n\nDespite rumors that Ghidorah was meant to represent the threat posed by China, which had at the time of the character's creation just developed nuclear weapons, director Ishirō Honda denied the connection and stated that Ghidorah was simply a modern take on the dragon Yamata no Orochi.\n\nThe initial idea for \"Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster\" came from Tomoyuki Tanaka, who also created Godzilla. Tanaka's inspiration came from an illustration of the Lernaean Hydra in a book about Greek Mythology, and Orochi of Japanese folklore. Tanaka was enamored with the idea of Godzilla fighting a multi-headed serpent, but considered seven or eight heads to be too excessive, and thus the number of heads was reduced to three. The final version was an armless three-headed dragon with large wings, two tails and of extraterrestrial origin.\n\nIn its debut film, \"Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster\", Ghidorah is portrayed as an ancient extraterrestrial entity responsible for the destruction of the Venusian civilization, five thousand years before the film's events. Its attempt to destroy Earth is thwarted by the combined efforts of Godzilla, Rodan and Mothra. \n\nSubsequent Shōwa era films would portray Ghidorah as the pawn of various alien races seeking to subjugate Earth. King Ghidorah also appears in the fifth and sixth episodes of the television series \"Zone Fighter\", where it is revealed that it is a creation of the Garoga aliens.\n\nScreenwriter Shinichi Sekizawa insisted that the Ghidorah suit be fabricated using light-weight silicon-based materials in order to grant the wearer greater mobility. The final Ghidorah design was constructed by special effects artist Teizo Toshimitsu, who had initially painted it green in order to further differentiate it from Godzilla, Rodan and Mothra, but changed it to gold on the insistence of Eiji Tsuburaya, after his assistant noted that being a creature from Venus, the \"gold planet\", Ghidorah should be that color. \n\nThe monster suit itself was built by Akira Watanabe, and worn by Shoichi Hirose, who also played King Kong in Toho's \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\". Hirose walked hunched over inside the Ghidorah costume, holding a metal bar for balance, while puppeteers would control its heads, tails and wings off-camera like a marionette. The monster's heads were each fitted with remotely controlled motors, which were connected to operators via a wire extending from the suit's backside.\n\nPerforming as Ghidorah proved challenging to Hirose, as he had to time his movements in a way that would not conflict with the separately operated heads and wings, as doing so would have resulted in the overhead wires tangling. Because of the suit's weight, it frequently snapped the overhead wires supporting it. Special effects were added as the creature is capable emitting destructive, lightning-like \"gravity beams\" from its mouths and generating hurricane-force winds from its wings.\n\nDespite King Ghidorah's central role in the film's plot, the character was given little screen time, as Hirose had fallen out with special effects director Eiji Tsuburaya, who never forgave Hirose for accepting a Hollywood deal, and subsequently he hired Susumu Utsumi to play King Ghidorah after \"Invasion of Astro-Monster\". In that film, King Ghidorah was given a darker shade of gold, and its movements both on land and in the air were more fluid than during \"Ghidorah the Three-Headed Monster\", as the special effects crew had at that point learned from the shortcomings of the previous film's depiction of the creature.\n\nIn \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\" (1991), the creature's backstory is completely re-envisioned: it originates as a trio of diminutive genetically engineered creatures called \"Dorats\" owned by members of the 23rd century Equal Environment Earth Union, a group dedicated to equalizing the power of Earth's nations. Seeking to stop Japan's global economic dominance in their timeline by transforming the Dorats into King Ghidorah through nuclear exposure, the Earth Unionists hope to plant the Dorats on Lagos Island during the 1954 H-bomb tests there. Prior to doing so, they remove the dinosaur that would ultimately become Godzilla from the island, so that the resulting King Ghidorah would be able to attack Japan without opposition. In 1992, the Earth Unionists unleash Ghidorah onto Japan, but he is defeated by a recreated Godzilla. The wounded King Ghidorah lies dormant under the sea for two centuries before being outfitted with robotic parts by a disillusioned Earth Unionist and sent back to 1992 as Mecha-King Ghidorah in order to stop Godzilla's rampage. \n\nThe character's ruffs of hairs surrounding its heads were replaced with horns, as it proved difficult for the special effects team to superimpose the individual strands of hair onto footage of people escaping the monster. Special effects director Koichi Kawakita had originally planned on having each of Ghidorah's heads fire differently colored beams, but this was ultimately scrapped in favor of the classic yellow color. This version of King Ghidorah was portrayed by Hurricane Ryu.\n\nIn \"Godzilla vs. Mechagodzilla II\" (1993), Mecha-King Ghidorah's robotic middle head is salvaged by the United Nations Godzilla Countermeasures Center (UNGCC) and reverse engineered to create Mechagodzilla.\n\nIn \"Rebirth of Mothra III\" (1998), King Ghidorah is depicted as an extraterrestrial that landed on earth during the Cretaceous Period of the Mesozoic Era and wiped out the dinosaurs by draining them of their life energies. Ghidorah left Earth and returns in modern times to feed on humans. Mothra fails to defeat the monster and travels back to the Cretaceous in order to kill Ghidorah retroactively. Mothra defeats the younger Ghidorah, but the monster's severed tail allows it to regenerate back into its adult form in modern times. Mothra finally kills the monster by transforming into a new form: \"Armor Mothra\". This version of King Ghidorah was portrayed by Tsutomu Kitagawa.\n\nIn \"\", Ghidorah is portrayed as having been one of the three Guardians of Yamato, originating 1,000 years before the events of the film. Initially an antagonist, Ghidorah was imprisoned in Mount Fuji, only to be reawakened in 2001 to halt Godzilla's destruction of Tokyo. Ghidorah is defeated, but then revived and empowered by ally Mothra. \n\nDirector Shūsuke Kaneko had originally planned on using Varan as Godzilla's principal antagonist, but was pressured by Toho chairman Isao Matsuoka to use the more recognizable and profitable King Ghidorah, as the previous film in the franchise, \"Godzilla vs. Megaguirus\", which featured an original and unfamiliar antagonist, was a box office and critical failure. In order to emphasize Ghidorah's heroic role in the movie, the creature's size was greatly reduced, and was portrayed by Akira Ohashi, who moved the creature's heads as hand puppets.\n\nGhidorah is referenced by Metphies in a post-credits scene for \"\". Ghidorah was confirmed to be featured in \".\n\nIn 2014, Legendary Pictures announced their acquisition of the licenses to King Ghidorah, Mothra, and Rodan from Toho to use in their MonsterVerse. The trio were introduced in \"\" in a post-credits scene depicting cave paintings of all three monsters, including Godzilla.\n\nIn June 2017, a press release confirmed that Rodan, Mothra, and King Ghidorah will be featured in \"\". In April 2018, Jason Liles, Alan Maxson, and Richard Dorton were cast to provide the motion capture performances for the heads of King Ghidorah, with Liles performing the middle head, Maxson performing the right head, and Dorton performing the left head. Other actors will perform the body. This version of Ghidorah stands 521 ft (158.8 m) tall and is referred to as \"Monster Zero\" by Monarch. According to Monarch's database, ancient civilizations called the monster \"Ghidorah\".\n\nThroughout the creature's appearances, the only consistent abilities are flight and the capacity to fire \"gravity beams\" from its mouths. In \"Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster\", the first incarnation is shown travelling through space within a meteor capable of generating magnetic fields. \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\" features a robotic version - Mecha-King Ghidorah - equipped with grappling cables and a mechanical arm that can discharge electricity and is capable of lifting Godzilla.\n\nIn \"Rebirth of Mothra III\", King Ghidorah gains energy from eating victims and can construct a dome to house its victims for future consumption. It is also portrayed as capable of firing lightning bolts from its wings and regenerating its entire body from severed body parts. \"\" features a version that can electrocute enemies via its teeth and can gain power by absorbing the spirits of dead monsters, allowing it to form an energy shield capable of deflecting Godzilla's atomic heat ray. \n\nIn \"\", Ghidorah has a divergent frontal lobe density in each of its heads, rendering each head capable of independent thoughts. Its scales are capable of running bioelectrical currents through its body and its dermal layer is coated with aurum. It can generate \"hurricane-force\" winds due to hyper-tensile on the muscle tendons of the wings. Its body's electro-receptor molecular biology can create electrical currents and localized storm systems as it travels. This results in the stratosphere being torn open by thunder and lightning as it takes flight.\n\nThe character has been well-received and is considered to be the most famous enemy of Godzilla. WatchMojo.com listed King Ghidorah as #1 on their \"Top 10 Godzilla Villains\" list, and #6 on their \"Top 10 Giant Movie Monsters\" list, while IGN listed the creature as #2 on their \"Top 10 Japanese Movie Monsters\" list. \"Complex\" listed the character as #4 on its \"The 15 Most Badass Kaiju Monsters of All Time\" list, calling it \"iconic\" and \"...simply looks cooler than some of the more powerful bugs, crabs, and robots.\"\n\nIn his review of \"Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster\", Ethan Reed of \"Toho Kingdom\" praised King Ghidorah, calling it \"a fantastic addition to the franchise\" and \"no less than pure evil, a relentless force of destruction that wipes out the life of entire planets just for the sake of it\" and concluded that \"King Ghidorah is not only one the best characters in the series, but one [of] the best movie villains as well.\" Similar views were expressed in \"Paste\", which listed Ghidorah as #5 on its \"10 Best Movie Dragons\", describing it as \"probably the deadliest beast in all of Godzilla lore\".\n\nGodzilla historian Steve Ryfle, however, has criticized Ghidorah's design in \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\", citing its stiff movements and recycled Rodan roar, as well as noting that it did not deviate enough from Eiji Tsuburaya's original design.\n\nKing Ghidorah appeared in a brief piece of stock footage in \"Terror of Mechagodzilla\". Stock footage of King Ghidorah was used in three episodes of \"Courage the Cowardly Dog\": \"Courage in the Big Stinkin' City\", \"The Tower of Dr. Zalost\", and \"Nowhere TV\". Spin-off characters based on King Ghidorah (although quadrupedal in appearance) were featured in other Toho films: Desghidorah (or Death Ghidorah) in \"Rebirth of Mothra\" and Keizer Ghidorah in \"\". A post-credits scene in \"\" depicts a cave painting of several monsters such as Godzilla, Rodan, Mothra and King Ghidorah.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5635862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5635862", "title": "Maintenance of an organism", "text": "Maintenance of an organism\n\nMaintenance of an organism is the collection of processes to stay alive, excluding production processes. The Dynamic Energy Budget theory delineates two classes\n\nThe theory assumes that maturity maintenance costs can be reduced more easily during starvation than somatic maintenance costs. Under extreme starvation conditions, somatic maintenance costs are paid from structural mass, which causes shrinking. Some organism manage to switch to the turpor state under starvation conditions, and reduce their maintenance costs.\n"}
{"id": "4554220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4554220", "title": "Maternity blues", "text": "Maternity blues\n\nMaternity blues, also known as baby blues and postpartum blues, is a transient condition that 75-80% of mothers could experience shortly after childbirth with a wide variety of symptoms which generally involve mood lability, tearfulness, and some mild anxiety and depressive symptoms. Baby blues is not postpartum depression, unless it is abnormally severe.\n\n\nAfter the placenta is delivered, the placental \"hormone factory\" shuts down causing radical changes in hormone levels, and the woman can suffer symptoms due to withdrawal from the high pregnancy levels of estrogen, progesterone and endorphins. Combined with this shift in hormone levels is the physical, mental and emotional exhaustion - as well as sleep deprivation typical of parenting a newborn. All of these factors contribute to the condition.\n\nIt can also be normal for the ovaries (having been virtually inactive for the last six months of the pregnancy) to take a number of weeks to return to producing normal pre-pregnancy hormone levels.\n\nThis condition may also be associated with thyroid dysfunction.\n\nAn association with serotonin has been suggested.\n\nInstead of having the baby blues, some women experience \"baby pinks\" when they are overly and illogically on top of the world (a mild to severe form of mania). These symptoms can sometimes be a trigger for a pending depressive imbalance, such as postpartum depression or postnatal psychosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "34632462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34632462", "title": "Memini", "text": "Memini\n\nMemini is a global digital initiative driven entirely by volunteers internationally to promote remembrance of victims of honour killings worldwide.\n\"Memini\" means ‘I remember’ in Latin. The Memini initiative documents the stories of young women and men globally who have lost their life in the name of family and community honour. It is the largest database of stories of cases of honour killings on the internet. A core purpose of honour killings is to remove all existence of the victims Memini intends the opposite.\n\nNorwegian artist and activist Deeyah Khan founded Memini in early 2011.\n"}
{"id": "3278197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3278197", "title": "Mingo Oak", "text": "Mingo Oak\n\nThe Mingo Oak (also known as the Mingo White Oak) was a white oak (\"Quercus alba\") in the U.S. state of West Virginia. First recognized for its age and size in 1931, the Mingo Oak was the oldest and largest living white oak tree in the world until its death in 1938.\n\nThe Mingo Oak stood in Mingo County, West Virginia, in a cove at the base of Trace Mountain near the headwaters of the Trace Fork of Pigeon Creek, a tributary stream of Tug Fork. The tree reached a height of over , and its trunk was in height. Its crown measured in diameter and in height. The tree's trunk measured in diameter and the circumference of its base measured . Assessments of its potential board lumber ranged from to . Following the tree's felling in 1938, it was estimated to weigh approximately .\n\nWhile the tree had long been known about for its size, the unique status of the Mingo Oak was not recognized until 1931, when John Keadle and Leonard Bradshaw of Williamson took measurements of the tree, and found it to be the largest living white oak in the world. Various estimates place the Mingo Oak's seeding between 1354 and 1361 AD. Using borings from the tree, the Smithsonian Institution determined that the Mingo Oak was the oldest tree of its species. The Island Creek Coal Company, the North East Lumber Company, and the Cole and Crane Real Estate Trust leased encompassing the tree to the West Virginia Game, Fish, and Forestry Commission for it to be managed as a state park for the life of the tree. The commission cleared the surrounding land and made improvements such as seating and picnic accommodations for visitors.\n\nBy the spring of 1938, the Mingo Oak failed to produce leaves, and on May of that year, West Virginia state forester D. B. Griffin announced the tree's death. The prevailing theory is that the tree died from the release of poisonous gases and sulfur fumes from a burning spoil tip in nearby Trace Gap. The tree was felled with fanfare on September 23, 1938, with transections being sent to the Smithsonian Institution and the West Virginia State Museum. Under the terms of the Island Creek Coal Company's lease with the West Virginia Game, Fish, and Forestry Commission, the land's lease around the former tree reverted to the company following the tree's felling.\n\nPrior to the arrival of European American settlers and explorers, the Allegheny Plateau region of West Virginia, lying to the west of the Allegheny and Cumberland mountain ranges of the Appalachian Mountains, was overlaid with old-growth forests consisting predominantly of deciduous mixed oaks and chestnut trees. The cove forests of the Appalachian Mountains were undisturbed for approximately 300 million years, and the ample moisture and deep soils of cove topography allowed for the proliferation of temperate broadleaf and mixed forest species.\n\nThe largest of the tree species in this virgin timbershed was the white oak (\"Quercus alba\"), which often exceeded in height and in diameter. While the white oak's range encompasses most of the Eastern United States, the most favorable environments for its growth are on the western slopes of the Appalachian Mountains. According to botanist Earl Lemley Core, the species flourishes on northern mountain flanks, and in coves, which are small valleys or ravines between two ridge lines that are closed at one or both ends. White oaks also thrive in moist lowlands and in upland topography, with the exception of extremely dry ridges with shallow soil.\n\nThe Mingo Oak, known alternatively as the Mingo White Oak, was a white oak that stood in such a cove at the base of Trace Mountain on a shelf near the headwaters of the Trace Fork of Pigeon Creek, a tributary stream of Tug Fork. The tree was located near the census-designated place of Holden, from Logan and from the Logan County line in Mingo County, from which it took its name. The county was in turn named for the Mingo Iroquois peoples, of which Native American war leader Logan was affiliated. Holden was the base of operations of the Island Creek Coal Company, which leased the land where the tree was located.\n\nThe Mingo Oak was the largest specimen of these giant white oaks that dotted the old-growth forests of pre-settlement West Virginia. The tree was found to be the largest living white oak in the United States, and in the world, following a survey of white oaks throughout the country. The Mingo Oak's nearest competition was a tree that was identified in Stony Brook on Long Island with a larger circumference, but a shorter height of .\n\nTogether with its uppermost branches, the tree reached a height of over , and its trunk (or bole) towered to a height of where the trunk forked into branches that spread in all directions. Its crown measured in diameter and in height. The tree's trunk measured in diameter. The tree's circumference measured at the base and at from the ground. As the virgin forest around it had been lumbered, the tree towered over the surrounding secondary forest.\n\nAn initial estimate by lumbermen in 1931 stated that if the tree were to be cut for lumber, it would produce between and of board lumber, with a value of $1,400. In February 1932, Perkins Coville of the United States Forest Service Department of Silvics estimated the tree's volume to contain of board lumber. In 1938, engineers of the Island Creek Coal Company estimated that the tree's trunk contained of board lumber. Following the tree's felling in 1938, it was estimated to weigh approximately .\n\nVarious estimates place the tree's seeding sometime between 1354 and 1361 AD. Using borings from the tree, the Smithsonian Institution determined that the Mingo Oak was the oldest tree of its species. In September 1932, West Virginia state forester D. B. Griffin and Emmett Keadle, president of the Mingo County Fish and Game Protective Association in Williamson, used an increment borer to estimate the tree as having begun its growth around 1356, with a margin of error within 25 or 30 years. Blueprints and boring samples were given to the West Virginia State Museum in Charleston and to the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C.\n\nOwnership of the timber land around the tree was eventually acquired by the Cole and Crane Real Estate Trust, which leased the timbering rights to the North East Lumber Company. Under the lease agreement, the North East Lumber Company only paid for the lumber that it cleared from the land. The company found the Mingo Oak too large to cut down, and assessed that its removal was too costly to undertake. The Cole and Crane Real Estate Trust also leased out the land where the tree was located to the Island Creek Coal Company for mining.\n\nThe land around the tree continued to be developed. A highway connecting Logan to Williamson, was built parallel to the Trace Fork of Pigeon Creek, opposite the Mingo Oak. While the tree had long been known for its size, the unique status of the Mingo Oak was not recognized until 1931, when John Keadle and Leonard Bradshaw of Williamson took measurements of the tree, and found it to be the largest living white oak in the world. Upon this finding by the two men, Cole and Crane Real Estate Trust and the Island Creek Coal Company agreed to make a joint deed conveying the property to the state of West Virginia. In late 1931, Emmett Keadle of the West Virginia Oil and Grease Company wrote a letter to Governor William G. Conley informing him of the tree's significance and the companies' willingness to lease the land to the state. Governor Conley responded to Keadle and suggested the companies convey the property to the West Virginia Game, Fish, and Forestry Commission.\n\nThe Island Creek Coal Company, the North East Lumber Company, and the Cole and Crane Real Estate Trust leased to the commission encompassing the tree for it to be managed as a state park for the lifetime of the tree. The commission removed vegetation from the immediate land around the tree, constructed a fence around the plot, and built a bridge crossing the Trace Fork of Pigeon Creek so that motorists could access the park from the highway. The state built cooking ovens, picnic tables, and benches along the tree's southern slopes. Also, due to its enormous size and advanced age, the Mingo Oak acquired spiritual and inspirational significance. It became a place of worship, and a pulpit and benches were built beneath its branches. During the summer months, outdoor sermons were delivered by preachers at the tree. The Mingo Oak was also credited with raising awareness of conservation.\n\nThe Mingo Oak became a popular attraction for visitors. Conferences, such as the annual conference of the West Virginia Parent-Teacher Association in 1933, included visits to the tree as part of their itineraries.\n\nIn the summer of 1937, the Mingo Oak scarcely sprouted leaves on only a couple of its branches. In February 1938, biologist Earl M. Vanscoy wrote in \"Castanea\" that the tree was \"almost dead\" due to the release of poisonous gases and sulfur fumes from a coal spoil tip of the Island Creek Coal Company, which had been burning nearby in Trace Gap. In the spring of 1938, the tree failed to produce any leaves. White oaks flower in the spring at approximately the same time as their leaves form, between late March and late May. On May 4, 1938, West Virginia's state forester, D. B. Griffin, announced that the Mingo Oak was dead. Griffin also noted that a fungus that only lived on dead or dying trees had been present on the tree for several months prior to its death. The prevailing theory is that the tree died as a result of suffocation from the fumes of the burning pile of coal waste; however, local media initially reported that the tree was killed as a result of fungal growth.\n\nIn preparation for the tree's felling, some preliminary cutting was undertaken in the tree's north side in the afternoon hours of September 22. This work was done in order to manipulate the course of the tree's fall, and to estimate the length of time it would take to cut through the remainder of the trunk. After a saw had been worked approximately into the trunk, it was discovered that the tree was decomposing and open in its center. The lumber crews trimmed the tree's initial cut, and the further work to topple the tree was adjourned until the following morning.\n\nThe tree was felled on September 23 during a ceremony attended by between 2,500 and 3,000 people. Among those in attendance were state forester D. B. Griffin, the president of the Island Creek Coal Company, E. P. Rice, and representatives from other companies that had previously owned and leased the land where the tree was located. In addition to standard cameras photographing the event, two movie cameras were brought to capture the felling and its associated events. Uniformed West Virginia Game, Fish, and Forestry Commission officers, Mingo County sheriffs' deputies, and other law enforcement personnel were also on hand to provide security and direct traffic.\n\nTwo lumberman were brought in to facilitate the cutting and toppling of the tree: Paul Criss of Charleston and Ed Meek of Indianapolis. Criss brought with him a team of woodchoppers and sawyers representing the Kelly Ax and Tool Works Company. Criss was a public relations spokesperson for the Kelly Ax and Tool Works Company. Meek arrived with his own crew from the E. C. Atkins and Company, a saw manufacturer. Griffin also enlisted the assistance of a crew of game wardens and rangers. A nearby Civilian Conservation Corps camp also provided a team to assist in the felling and dismemberment of the tree. The E. C. Atkins and Company also brought a saw. Most of the readily available crosscut saws measured in length, thus rendering them ineffective at cutting through the tree's wide trunk, which measured over in diameter from the ground.\n\nPrior to the tree's cutting, Criss shaved Meek's face with his axe. He lathered Meek's face and neck and moved his axe blade over Meek's bristles, drawing blood at his chin line. Criss commented: \"That's the trouble with having a lot of officials around. I've shaved a thousand men with that axe and that's the first time I ever drew blood. These officials get me a little nervous.\"\n\nBy 09:00, hundreds of people had arrived to observe the tree's toppling. At 10:00, the final cutting commenced. Criss decided to topple the tree downhill onto a ledge, which narrowed between the two ravines that emptied into Trace Fork. While it was assessed that the shelf was not long enough for the tree to land on, it was agreed upon by all the participants that given the rotten nature of the tree's top section, it would fracture notwithstanding the orientation of its fall. Prior to Criss cutting further into the tree, he assured the crews: \"I can put her anywhere you want her gentlemen. Lay a $10 bill anywhere you like and I'll guarantee the trunk will cover it.\"\n\nThe cutting of the tree began when the saw, operated by six men, was positioned across the trunk. The saw penetrated the trunk, and the adjacent area was cleared of bystanders. The spectators were repositioned up the hillside to the south and across the ravine to land that had previously been cleared by the Civilian Conservation Corps camp. The men moved the saw backward and forward, as woodchoppers widened the open wedge. After approximately 30 minutes, Criss yelled, \"We're through boys.\" The men removed the saw, and the woodchoppers continued to pick at the open wedge. The tree made a crackling sound, its upper limbs dipped, and the Mingo Oak crashed onto its designated felling location. While it had been intended that the tree be down by 10:30, it was not until 11:00 that this occurred. To assist in the segmentation of the collapsed tree, competitions were held in woodchopping and log sawing. Saw manufacturer E. C. Atkins and Company furnished saws for the competitors.\n\nBecause of the tree's advanced decomposition within the center of its base, the trunk's lowest were assessed to be worthless; however, of the trunk was salvaged in one entire piece. Another cutting yielded a log in length, that averaged in diameter. The Island Creek Coal Company sent the log to the Meadow River Lumber Company plant in Rainelle, which had the largest cutoff saw in the Eastern United States. From this log, transections were cut, and other divisions of it produced lumber, tabletops, and novelty items. Various segments of the tree were cut and given to the West Virginia State Museum and the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nThe Mingo Oak was the largest living white oak; and with the exception of the state's box huckleberries (\"Gaylussacia brachycera\"), it was the oldest living flora specimen in West Virginia. The tree was referred to as the \"mighty monarch of the mountains\". Biologist Earl M. Vanscoy said that the tree was \"perhaps West Virginia's most remarkable tree\"; and Colby B. Rucker of the Native Tree Society referred to the Mingo Oak as an \"exceptional forest giant\".\n\nUnder the terms of the West Virginia Game, Fish, and Forestry Commission's lease from the Cole and Crane Real Estate Trust, the North East Lumber Company, and the Island Creek Coal Company, the lease for the land around the former tree reverted to the Island Creek Coal Company following the tree's death and felling.\n\nIn 1940, a club of whittlers presented a gavel made from a piece of the Mingo Oak to federal judge Harry E. Atkins in Huntington. Several of the club's whittlers had served as members of the jury during Atkins's court proceedings, and they presented the gavel as a token of their appreciation.\n\nThe West Virginia Division of Culture and History installed a historic marker as part of the West Virginia Highway Historical Marker Program near the site of the Mingo Oak; it has since gone missing. The marker read:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22818988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22818988", "title": "Missing women", "text": "Missing women\n\nThe term \"missing women\" indicates a shortfall in the number of women relative to the expected number of women in a region or country. It is most often measured through male-to-female sex ratios, and is theorized to be caused by sex-selective abortions, female infanticide, and inadequate healthcare and nutrition for female children. It is argued that technologies that enable prenatal sex selection, which have been commercially available since the 1970s, are a large impetus for missing female children.\n\nThe phenomenon was first noted by the Indian Nobel Prize-winning economist Amartya Sen in an essay in \"The New York Review of Books\" in 1990, and expanded upon in his subsequent academic work. Sen originally estimated that more than a hundred million women were \"missing.\" Later researchers found differing numbers, with most recent estimates around ninety to 101 million women. These effects are concentrated in countries typically in Asia, the Middle East and northern Africa. However, the disparity has also been found in Chinese and Indian immigrant communities in the United States, albeit to a far lesser degree than in Asia. An estimated 2000 Chinese and Indian female unborn children were aborted between 1991 and 2004, and a shortage can be traced back as far as 1980. Some countries in the former Soviet Union also saw declines in female births after the revolutions of 1989, particularly in the Caucasus region.\n\nOther economists, notably Emily Oster, have questioned Sen's explanation, and argued that the shortfall was due to a higher prevalence of the hepatitis B virus in Asia compared to Europe; however, her later research established that Hepatitis B cannot account for more than an insignificant fraction of the missing women. Researchers have also argued that other diseases, HIVS/AIDS, natural causes, and female abduction are also responsible for missing women. However, son preference, as well as associated reasons to care for male well-being over female well-being, is still considered to the primary cause.\n\nIn addition to the health and wellbeing of women, the missing women phenomenon has led to an excess of males in society and an imperfectly balanced marriage market. Because of the association of missing women with female neglect, countries with higher rates of missing women also tend to have higher rates of women in poor health, leading to higher rates of infants in poor health.\n\nResearchers argue that increasing women's education and women's employment opportunities can help decrease the number of missing women, but the effects of these policy solutions differ greatly between countries due to differing levels of ingrained sexism between cultures. Various international measures have been instituted to combat the problem of missing women. For example, to bring awareness to the problem of missing women, the OECD measures the number of missing women through the \"Son preference\" parameter in its SIGI index.\n\nAccording to Sen, even though women make up the majority of the world's population, the proportion of women in each country's population varies drastically from country to country, with various countries having fewer women than men. This runs contrary to research that females tend to have better survival rates than males, given the same amount of nutritional and medical attention. To capture this divergence from natural sex ratios, the count of \"missing women\" is measured as a comparison of a country's male-to-female (or female-to-male) sex ratio compared to the natural sex ratio. Unlike female mortality rates, estimates of \"missing women\" include counts of sex-specific abortions, which Sen cites as a large factor contributing to the disparity of sex ratios from country to country. Furthermore, female mortality rates fail to account for intergenerational effects from female discrimination, while a comparison of a country's sex ratio to natural sex ratios would.\n\nSen's original research found that while there are typically more women than men in European and North American countries (at around 0.98 men to 1 woman for most countries), the sex ratio of developing countries in Asia, as well as the Middle East, is much higher (in number of males for each female). For example, in China, the ratio of men to women is 1.06, far higher than most countries. The ratio is much higher than that for those born after 1985, when ultrasound technology became widely available. Using actual numbers, this means that in China alone, there are 50 million women \"missing\" – that should be there but are not. Adding up similar numbers from South and West Asia results in a number of \"missing\" women higher than 100 million.\n\nAccording to Sen, \"These numbers tell us, quietly, a terrible story of inequality and neglect leading to the excess mortality of women.\"\n\nSince Sen's original research, continued research in the field has led to varying estimates on the total numbers of missing women. Much of this variation is because of underlying assumptions for \"normal\" birth sex ratios and expected post-birth mortality rates for men and women.\n\nSen's original calculations using 1980s and 1990s data for missing women were indexed using the average sex ratio in Western Europe and North America as the natural sex ratio, through assuming that in these countries men and women received equal care. After further research, he updated these numbers with Sub-Saharan African sex ratios. Using these countries' sex ratios as the baseline and male-female populations from other countries as the data, he concluded that over 100 million women were missing, primarily in Asia. However, later authors pointed out that Europe tended to have higher rates of male mortality due to multiple wars and generally risky behavior. Due to male workers migrating from rural to urban regions, immigration, and world war, a culture of \"high masculinity\" existed in these countries, while on the other hand, in other countries such as India, traditions regarding the discriminatory treatment of female children were stronger from the late 1950s to mid-1980s.\n\nAs a result of this disparity between countries, American demographer Coale re-estimated the Sen's original numbers of missing women using a different methodology. Using data from his Regional Model Life Tables, Coale found that the natural male-to-female sex ratio, accounting for different country fertility rates and circumstances, had an expected value of 1.059. Using the number, he then arrived at an estimate of 60 million missing women, much lower than Sen's original estimate. However, a few years later, Klasen re-calculated the count of missing women using Coale's methodology with updated data. He found 69.3 million missing women, which was higher than Coale's original estimate. He also noted a problem with the Regional Model Life Tables; they were based on countries with higher female mortality, which would bias Coale's numbers of missing women downwards. Furthermore, Klasen and Wink noted that both Sen's and Coale's methodologies were flawed because Sen and Coale assume that optimal sex ratios are constant across time and space, which they are often not.\n\nKlasen and Wink conducted a study in 2003 with updated census data. Using life expectancy to instrument for sex ratio at birth (which would account for non-constant sex ratios as well as biases from the Regional Model Life Tables), they estimated 101 million missing women across the world. Overall they found trends that showed that while West Asia, North Africa and most of South Asia saw more equal sex ratios, China's and South Korea's ratios worsened. In fact, Klasen and Wink noted that China was responsible for 80% of the rise in missing women from between 1994 and 2003. Sex-selective abortions were given as reasons for the lack of improvement in India and China, while women's growing educational and employment opportunities were cited as reasons for the ratio improvement in other previously low ratio countries such as Sri Lanka. Klasen and Wink also noted that similar to both Sen's and Coale's results, Pakistan had the world's highest percentage of missing girls relative to its total pre-adult female population.\n\nLater estimates have tended to have higher numbers of missing women. For example, a 2005 study estimated that over 90 million females were \"missing\" from the expected population in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, China, India, Pakistan, South Korea and Taiwan alone. On the other hand, Guilmoto in his 2010 report uses recent data (except for Pakistan), and estimates a much lower number of missing girls in Asian and non-Asian countries, but notes that the higher sex ratios in numerous countries have created a gender gap – shortage of girls – in the 0–19 age group. A table summarizing his results is below:\n\nEven within countries, the prevalence of missing women can vary drastically. Das Gupta observed that the preference for boys and the resulting shortage of girls was more pronounced in the more highly developed Haryana and Punjab regions of India than in poorer areas. This prejudice was most prevalent among the more educated and affluent women and mothers in those two regions. In the Punjab region, girls did not receive inferior treatment if a girl was born as a first child in a given family, when the parents still had high hopes for obtaining a son later. However, subsequent births of girls were unwelcome, because each such birth diminished a chance of the family having a son. Because more affluent and educated women would have fewer offspring, they were therefore under more acute pressure to produce a son as early as possible. As ultrasound imaging and other techniques increasingly allowed early prediction of the child's sex, more affluent families opted for an abortion. Alternatively, if the girl was born, the family would decrease her chance of survival by not providing sufficient medical or nutritional care. As a result, in India there are more missing women in developed urban areas, than in rural regions.\n\nOn the other hand, in China, rural areas have a larger missing women problem than urban areas. China's regional differences lead to different attitudes towards the one-child policy. Urban areas have been found to be easier to enforce the policy, due to the danwei system, a generally more educated urban population – understanding that one child is easier to care for and keep healthy than two. In more rural areas where farming is labor-intensive and couples depend on male offspring to take care of them in old age, males children are preferred to females.\n\nEven developed countries face problems with missing women. The bias against girls is very evident among the relatively highly developed, middle-class dominated nations (Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia) and the immigrant Asian communities in the United States and Britain. Only recently and in some countries (particularly South Korea) have the development and educational campaigns begun to turn the tide, resulting in more normal gender ratios.\n\nSome evidence suggests that in Asia, especially in China with its one-child policy, additional fertility behavior, infant deaths, and female birth information may be hidden or not reported. Instead of policy expanding women's opportunities for gainful employment policy, from 1979 onward the one-child policy has added upon the son preference causing the largest number of missing women in any country. \nAs parents are eager to have sons and are allowed only one child, some first born females are not reported with the hope that their next child will be a son. Surviving children who live unreported suffer by not having access to health insurance, lower chances receiving and education and often live with the feeling that they are a burden to their families.\n\nIn the other direction, migration, especially to GCC countries, has become a larger issue for sex ratio estimates. Because many male migrants move across borders without their families, there is a large influx in the number of males, which would bias the sex ratios towards more missing women, even when there are not.\n\nSen argued that the disparity in sex ratio across eastern Asian countries like India, China, and Korea when compared to North America and Europe, as seen in 1992, could only be explained by deliberate nutritional and health deprivations against women and female children. These deprivations are caused by cultural mechanisms, such as traditions and values, that vary across countries and even regionally within countries. Due to the inherent bias toward male children in many of these countries, female children, if born despite many instances of sex-selective abortion, are born without the same sense of priority given to men. This is especially true in the medical care given to men and women, as well as prioritizing who gets food in less privileged families, leading to lower survival rates than if both genders were treated equally.\n\nAccording to Sen's cooperative conflict model, the relations within the household are characterized by both cooperation and conflict: cooperation in the addition of resources and conflict in the division of resources among the household. These intra-household processes are influenced by perceptions of one's self-interest, contribution and welfare. One's fall back position is the situation for each party once the bargaining process has failed and also determines the ability of each party to survive outside of the relationship.\n\nTypically, the fall-back position for men who have land ownership rights, more economic opportunities and less care work related to children is better than a woman's fall-back position, who is dependent on her husband for land and income. According to this framework, when women lack a perception of personal interest and have greater concern for their family welfare gender inequalities are sustained. Sen argues that women's lower bargaining power in household decision contributes to the shortfall in female populations across eastern Asia.\n\nSen argues that the trend of lower female bargaining power may be positively correlated to the outside earning power and sense of contribution of women when compared to men. However, not all forms of outside work contribute equally to increasing women's bargaining power in the household; the type of outside work women do has bearing on their entitlements and fall-back position. Women can be doubly exploited in some cases: in Narsapur, India, lace-makers not only face lower bargaining power in the household, but often work for exploitatively low wages. Since lace-making is done in the home, it is perceived as only supplementary to male work rather than a gainful outside contribution. On the other hand, in Allahabad, India, women making cigarettes both gained an independent source of income and an increase in the community's view of their perceived contribution to the household.\n\nSen suggests that in areas with high proportions of missing women, the care and nutrition female children receive are tied to the community's view of their importance. Parents, even mothers, often avoid daughters because of the traditional patriarchal culture in the countries where the elimination of females takes place. Boys are more prized in these regions because they are looked upon as having an economically productive future, while women are not. As parents grow older they can expect much more help and support from their independent sons, than from daughters, who post-marriage functionally become the property of their husbands' families. Even if these daughters are educated and generate significant income, they have limited ability to interact with their natal families. Women are also often practically unable to inherit real estate, so a mother-widow will lose her family's (in reality her late husband's) plot of land and become indigent if she had had only daughters. Poor rural families have meager resources to distribute among their children, which reduces the opportunity to discriminate against girls.\n\nBecause of selective parental valuation of daughters, even as women are able to afford better healthcare and economic opportunities outside the home, the missing women problem still persists. Notably, ultrasound technology has exacerbated the problem of missing female children. Ultrasound treatment allows parents to screen out unwanted female fetuses before they are even born. Sen refers to this inequality as \"high tech sexism.\" He concludes that these biases against women were so \"entrenched\" that even relative economic improvements in the lives of households have only enabled these parents a different avenue for rejecting their female children. Sen then argued that instead of just increasing women's economic rights and opportunities outside the home a greater emphasis needed to be placed on raising consciousness to eradicate the strong biases against female children.\n\nThe natural sex ratio at birth is approximately 105 males for 100 females. However, because of sex-selective abortions, the sex ratio at birth in countries with high proportions of missing women have ranged 108.5 in India to 121.2 in China. As a result, counts of missing women are often due to missing female children.\n\nVarious researchers argue that declining fertility contributes to an intensified problem of missing women. This is because families have a preference for sons; a decrease in fertility would mean that families would no longer have children of multiple sexes, but rather a single male child. However, Klasen's research has found that other than in countries where policies severely restrict family planning (i.e. China due to the One Child Policy), fertility is not often associated with higher prevalence of missing women. This is because declining fertility is endogenous with other improvements of female well-being such as increasing female education, increasing female employment, and a decrease in gender bias. In fact, as Klasen notes, \"In countries where fertility decline has been the largest, the share of missing women has fallen the most.\"\n\nHowever, this varies between countries. Das Gupta finds that in South Korea, the male-to-female sex ratio spiked from 1.07 to 1.15 between the 1980s and 1990s because of the rising prevalence of ultrasound technology for the use of sex-selective abortions, but declined afterwards between 1990 and 2000 because of increasing modernization, education, and economic opportunities. Furthermore, in a study contrasting India and Bangladesh, researchers found that India's declining fertility caused a large intensification in son preference and thus an increase in the number of missing women, while declining fertility in Bangladesh led to less missing women.\n\nIn her PhD dissertation at Harvard, Emily Oster argued that Sen's hypothesis did not take account of the different rates of prevalence of the Hepatitis B virus between Asia and other parts of the world. Regions with higher rates of Hepatitis B infection tend to have higher ratios of male to female births for biological reasons which are not yet well understood, but which have been extensively documented.\n\nWhile the disease is fairly uncommon in US and Europe, it is endemic in China and very common in other parts of Asia. Oster argued that this difference in disease prevalence could account for about 45% of the supposed \"missing women\", and even as high as 75% of the ones in China. Furthermore, Oster showed that the introduction of a Hepatitis B vaccine had a lagged effect of equalizing the gender ratio towards what one would expect if other factors did not play a role.\n\nOster's challenge was met with counter arguments of its own as researchers tried to sort out the available data and control for other possible confounding factors. Avraham Ebenstein questioned Oster's conclusion based on the fact that among first born children the sex ratio is close to the natural one. It is the skewed female-male ratios among second and third born children that account for the bulk of the disparity. In other words, if Hepatitis B was responsible for the skewed ratio then one would expect it to be true among all children, regardless of birth order.\n\nHowever, the fact that the skewness arose less among the later born than among the first born children, suggested that factors other than the disease were involved.\n\nDas Gupta pointed out that the female-male ratio changed in relation to average household income in a way that was consistent with Sen's hypothesis but not Oster's. In particular, lower household income eventually leads to a higher boy/girl ratio. Furthermore, Das Gupta documented that the gender birth order was significantly different conditional on the sex of the first child.\n\nIf the first child was male, then the sex of the subsequent children tended to follow the regular, biologically determined sex pattern (boys born with probability 0.512, girls born with probability 0.488). However, if the first child was female, the subsequent children had a much higher probability of being male, indicating that conscious parental choice was involved in determining the sex of the child. Neither of these phenomena can be explained by the prevalence of hepatitis B.\n\nThey are, however, consistent with Sen's contention that it is purposeful human action – in the form of selective abortion and perhaps even infanticide and female infant neglect – that is the cause of the skewed gender ratio.\n\nPart of the difficulty in discerning between the two competing hypotheses was the fact that while the link between Hepatitis B and a higher likelihood of male birth had been documented, there was little information available on the strength of this link and how it varied by which of the parents were the carriers. Furthermore, most prior medical studies did not use a sufficiently high number of observations to convincingly estimate the magnitude of the relationship.\n\nHowever, in a 2008 study published in the \"American Economic Review\", Lin and Luoh utilized data on almost 3 million births in Taiwan over a long period of time and found that the effect of maternal Hepatitis B infection on the probability of male birth was very small, about one quarter of one percent. This meant that the rates of Hepatitis B infection among mothers could not account for the vast majority of missing women.\n\nThe remaining possibility was that it was the infection among fathers that could lead to a skewed birth ratio. However, Oster, together with Chen, Yu and Lin, in a follow up study to Lin and Luoh examined a data set of 67,000 births (15% of whom were Hepatitis B carriers) and found no effect of infection on birth ratio for either the mothers or fathers. As a result, Oster retracted her earlier hypothesis.\n\nIn a 2008 study, Anderson and Ray claim that other diseases may explain the \"excess female mortality\" across Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. By comparing relative death rates of females to males in developed countries to the country in question, Anderson and Ray find that 37 to 45% of the missing women in China can be traced to pre-birth and infancy stage termination factors, whereas only around 11% of India's missing women were caused by similar factors, pointing to the fact that the loss is spread across different ages. They find that by and large, the main cause for female deaths in India is cardiovascular disease. \"Injuries\" is the number two cause of female deaths in India. Both of these causes are far greater than maternal mortality and abortion of fetuses, though \"Injuries\" may be directly related to gender discrimination.\n\nTheir findings for China also attribute missing women of older ages to cardiovascular and other non-communicable diseases, accounting for a large portion of excess female deaths. However, the largest bracket of missing women is in the 0-4 age group, suggesting discrimination factors at work in accordance to Sen's original theories.\n\nIn sub-Saharan Africa, in contrast to Sen's contention and average statistics, Anderson and Ray find a large number of women are missing. Sen used the sex ratio of 1.022 for sub-Saharan Africa in work done in 2001, to avoid comparing advanced countries to developing ones. Just as Sen believed, in their study they find no evidence to impute the missing women to birth discrimination such as sex-selective abortions or neglect. To account for the high number of young women missing they discovered that HIV/AIDS was the main cause, surpassing malaria and maternal mortality. Anderson and Ray estimated an annual excess female death rate 600,000 due to HIV/AIDS alone. The age groups with the highest numbers of missing women were the 20- to 24- and 25- to 29-year-old ranges. The high prevalence of HIV/AIDS seems to suggest, according to Anderson and Ray, an imbalance in women's access to healthcare as well as different attitudes about sexual and cultural norms.\n\nIn an article in 2008, Eileen Stillwaggon, showed that higher rates of HIV/AIDS are the consequence of deep-rooted gender inequalities in sub-Saharan Africa. In countries where women cannot own property they are in a more precarious fall-back position, having less bargaining power to \"insist on safe sex without risking abandonment\" by their husbands. She claims that a person's vulnerability to HIV depends on their overall health, and as misinformed practices, such as the belief that having sex with a female virgin will cure a male of AIDS, dry sex, and household activities that expose women to diseases contribute to weakening women's immune systems which leads to higher HIV mortality rates. Stillwaggon argues for increased focus on sanitation and nutrition rather than just abstinence or safe sex. As women become healthier the chances of an infected female transmitting HIV to a male partner decline significantly.\n\nOther scholars question the assumed normal sex ratio, and point to a wealth of historical and geographical data that suggest sex ratios vary naturally over time and place, for reasons not properly understood. William James and others suggest that conventional assumptions have been:\n\nJames cautions that available scientific evidence stands against the above assumptions and conclusions. He reports that there is an excess of males at birth in almost all human populations, and the natural sex ratio at birth is usually between 102 and 108. However the ratio may deviate significantly from this range for natural reasons such as early marriage and fertility, teenage mothers, average maternal age at birth, paternal age, age gap between father and mother, late births, ethnicity, social and economic stress, warfare, environmental and hormonal effects. This school of scholars support their alternate hypothesis with historical data when modern sex-selection technologies were unavailable, as well as birth sex ratio in sub-regions, and various ethnic groups of developed economies. They suggest that direct abortion data should be collected and studied, instead of drawing conclusions indirectly from sex ratio as Sen and others have done.\n\nJames's hypothesis is supported by historical birth sex ratio data before technologies for ultrasonographic sex-screening were discovered and commercialized in the 1960s and 1970s, as well by reversed sex ratios currently observed in Africa. Michel Garenne reports that many African nations have, over decades, witnessed birth sex ratios below 100, that is more girls are born than boys. Angola, Botswana and Namibia have reported birth sex ratios between 94 and 99, which is quite different than the presumed 104 to 106 as natural human birth sex ratio. John Graunt noted that in London over a 35-year period in the 17th century (1628–1662), the birth sex ratio was 1.07; while Korea's historical records suggest a birth sex ratio of 1.13, based on 5 million births, in 1920s over a 10-year period.\n\nEvidence has shown that number of missing women may be due to other reasons than sex selective abortions or female migrant work. Specifically, female babies, girls and women have been preyed upon by human traffickers. In China families are less willing to sell male babies even though they carry a higher price in the trade. Females born exceeding the one-child policy can be sold to wealthier families while the parents claim selling their female baby is better than other alternatives.\n\nOverseas adoption services for Chinese children have been involved in baby trafficking to reap the profits of donations from foreign adopters. One study notes that between 2002 and 2005 approximately 1000 trafficked babies were placed with adopting parents, each baby costing $3000. To keep up supply of orphans for adoption, orphanages and retirement homes hire women as baby traffickers.\n\nOverall, underreporting and trafficking may be too small to account for the staggering numbers of missing women across south-eastern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa though they may be related in causal factors.\n\nSome research has also noted that in the mid-1990s a reverse began in the observed trends in the regions of Asia where originally the male/female ratios were high. In line with the studies of Das Gupta described above, as income increases the bias in the sex ratio towards boys decreases.\n\nFemale discrimination and neglect is not just affecting girls and women. Sen described the effects of female malnutrition and other forms of discrimination on men's health. As pregnant women suffer from nutritional neglect the fetus suffers, leading to low birth weight for male as well as female babies. Medical studies have found a close relationship to low birth weight and cardiovascular diseases at later stages in life. While underweight female babies are at risk for continuing undernourishment, ironically, Sen points out that even decades after birth, \"men suffer disproportionately more from cardiovascular diseases.\"\n\nWith high per capita income growth in many parts of India and China during the late 1990s and the 2000s, male/female ratios have begun shifting towards \"normal\" levels. However, for India and China, this appears to be due to a fall in adult female mortality rates, relative to male adults, rather than a change in the sex ratio among children and newborns.\n\nIn general, these conditions amount to widespread deprivations of women across East and South Asia. According to Nussbaum's Capabilities Approach, as millions of females are discriminated against they are being deprived of their essential capabilities to such as life, bodily health and bodily integrity, among others. According this framework, policy should focus on increasing women's capabilities even at the cost of changing long held traditions.\n\nSome have speculated that the disparity in the sex ratio may affect the marriage market in such a way that may turn the tide of missing women. David De La Croix and Hippolyte d'Albis developed the Missing Bride Index and a mathematical model showing that over time, as rich and affluent families continue to abort female babies and raise male children and as less wealthy families have girls, more males will be more affluent and the prospects for women to marry will increase. They predict that prospects for girls in the marriage market may become so auspicious that bearing female children may be seen as a positive rather than a negative.\n\nSince the advent of sex-selective abortions via ultrasound and other medical procedures in the 1980s, the gender discriminations that have caused the “missing women” have simultaneously produced cohorts of excess men. Many speculated that this group of excess men would cause social disturbances such as crime and abnormal sexual behaviors without the opportunity to marry. In a 2011 study, Hesketh found crime rates to not differ significantly from areas with known higher populations of excess men. She found that instead of being prone to aggression these men are more likely to feel outcast and suffer from feelings of failure, loneliness and associated psychological problems. Others are using emigration to other countries like the U.S or Russia as a solution.\n\nTo combat runaway sex-ratio disparity, Hesketh recommends government policy to intervene by making sex selective abortion illegal and promoting awareness to fight son preference paradigms.\n\nA different development occurred in South Korea which in the early 1990s had one of the highest male to female ratios in the world. By 2007 however, South Korea, had a male to female ratio comparable to that found in Western Europe, the US and sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThis development characterized both adult ratios as well as the ratios among new births. According to Chung and Das Gupta rapid economic growth and development in South Korea has led to a sweeping change in social attitudes and reduced the preference for sons. Das Gupta, Chung, and Shuzhuo conclude that it is possible that China and India will experience a similar reversal in trend towards normal sex ratio in the near future if their rapid economic development, combined with policies that seek to promote gender equality, continue. This reversal has been interpreted as the latest phase of a more complex cycle called the \"sex ratio transition\".\n\nPolicy solutions are complicated by the fact that patterns of \"missing women\" are not uniform in all parts of developing nations. Studies find large variations between missing women. For example, there is an \"excess\" of women in Sub-Saharan Africa rather than deficit: the ratio of women to men is 1.02. On the other hand, there are disproportionately large numbers of missing women in India and China. Researchers argue that the prevalence of \"missing women\" is often intertwined with a society's culture and history, and as a result, it is difficult to create broad policy solutions. For example, Jafri argues that the relegation of women to an inferior position in Muslim society perpetuates the \"missing women\" issue. On the other hand, there is evidence suggesting that even in the sixteenth through nineteenth centuries, Western European countries did not face sex ratios as skewed as the ones we see today in various developing countries. Even between India and Bangladesh, two countries with similar levels of education and gender disparity today, there are differences in missing women: the same measures to improve female welfare in Bangladesh do much worse in India. Kabeer argues that this is the case because India is stratified by social caste, while Bangladesh is more homogenous; as a result, progressive ideas such as improving the welfare of women can more easily disseminate in Bangladesh.\n\nRegardless of cultural variation, Sen argues that in general, policies aimed to address education and women's employment opportunities outside the home may improve the missing women situation and fight the stigma attached to female children. Much research has been conducted in this area.\n\nFindings from the Indian Census in 2001 suggest that women's increased educational attainment was associated with the rise in the female-to-male sex ratio of India. Similarly, Dito's research in Ethiopia shows that in families where females are highly educated, have many brothers, and are close in age to their husbands, women tend to be more well-off, leading to lower counts of missing women. Thus, in some countries, increasing access to education has helped\n\nOn the other hand, later studies of India showed that increasing education may actually worsen the missing women phenomenon. Increasing female education may actually increase the rate of sex-selective abortion and thus increase the male-to-female sex ratio, as more well-educated female adults realize that opportunities in their society for their male children are much better than opportunities for their female children. In addition, female children are seen as a cost on the family because of their lack of employment opportunities, the paying of dowry, and their limited ability to own property. Mukherjee argues that this is further exacerbated by the fact that despite higher female education in India, there is a scarcity of jobs for highly educated women, suggesting that even with higher education, women's place in society does not expand much.\n\nSen argues that a woman's opportunity to participate in the labor force affords her more bargaining power within the home. In Sub-Saharan Africa, where there are fewer missing women, a woman is generally able to earn income from outside the home, increasing her contributions to her household and contributing to a different overall view of the value of women compared to that of Southeast and East Asia. However, Sen's contention about gainful work outside the home has led to some debates. Berik and Bilginsoy researched Sen's premise that improved women's economic opportunities outside of the home will diminish the disparity in the sex ratio in Turkey. They found that as women participated more in the work force and maintained their unpaid labor the sex ratio disparity grew, contrary to Sen's original prediction. On the other hand, Sen notes that in Narsapur, India, lace-makers have less bargaining power from their labor because lace-making is done in the home and perceived as supplementary, rather than gainful, labor. However, women making cigarettes in Allahabad, India, were viewed as having gainful labor, which helped boost the community's view of women. As Sen argues, only gainful labor is useful for dismantling the phenomenon of missing women.\n\nQian adds to these analyses by noting that a rise in female income is not enough to solve the missing women problem; rather, the rise in female income must be relative to male income. In her 2008 study, Qian shows that when females in China earn a 10% increase in household income while male income is held constant, male births fall by 1.2 percentage points. This female-specific wage boost also increases parents' investment in female children, with female children gaining 0.25 years more education. As a result, an increase in female-specific economic productivity helped boost both the survival of and investment in female children. Thus, if women become more economically productive themselves, it may alter the view of female children as economically unproductive as well. This may increase girls' chances of surviving to birth and receiving the care and attention during childhood that they need.\n\nDespite the variations in studies on which policies help decrease the number of missing women, several international organizations and independent countries have taken measures to attempt to help the problem. The OECD includes \"missing women\" as a measure under the Son preference parameter of its Social Inclusion and Gender Index, bringing awareness to it as an issue. Furthermore, the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child noted the importance of children in measuring a society's level of equality, while the Fourth UN Conference for Women in 1995 developed the Beijing platform, which recognized the rights of the female child. In addition, due to international pressure, India and China have both banned the use of ultrasounds for the purpose of sex-selective abortions.\n\nIn 2014, Kabeer, Huq, and Mahmud used a comparison of India and Bangladesh to argue that cultural dissemination of progressive ideas boosting the place of women in society is key for solving the problem of missing women. They show that NGOs in Bangladesh, which are present in over seventy percent of Bangladeshi villages, can be a helpful tool to mobilize change and culture. On the other hand, they argue that culturally instituted inequities such as India's caste system, which stratifies its society, prevent the spread of more progressive ideas, and as a result, cause a higher prevalence of missing women.\n\n"}
{"id": "4708331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708331", "title": "Muselmann", "text": "Muselmann\n\nMuselmann (pl. Muselmänner, the German version of Musulman, meaning Muslim) was a slang term used among captives of World War II Nazi concentration camps to refer to those suffering from a combination of starvation (known also as \"hunger disease\") and exhaustion and who were resigned to their impending death. The Muselmann prisoners exhibited severe emaciation and physical weakness, an apathetic listlessness regarding their own fate, and unresponsiveness to their surroundings owing to the barbaric treatment by the Nazis and prisoner functionaries.\n\nSome scholars argue that the term possibly comes from the Muselmann's inability to stand for any time due to the loss of leg muscle, thus spending much of the time in a prone position, recalling the position of the Musulman (Muslim) during prayers. It has also been suggested by Giorgio Agamben that the term hails from the Islamic fatalism which characterizes Sunnite orthodoxy, i.e. the idea that there are no such things as causality but that God performs every occurrence in the world, meaning that everything including men simply undergoes the workings of God and does not act on its own. Muselmann would then be the darkest interpretation of this fatalism. \n\nThe American psychologist David P. Boder assisted in identifying the term \"musselman\" when in 1946 he conducted interviews with camp survivors in Europe. He asked them to describe, spell and pronounce the word for camp inmates so emaciated that they had lost the will to live. \n\nPrimo Levi tried to explain the term (he also uses \"Musselman\"), in a footnote of \"If This Is a Man\", his autobiographical account of his time in Auschwitz:\n\nThe psychologist and Auschwitz survivor Viktor Frankl, in his book \"Man's Search for Meaning\", provides the example of a prisoner who decides to use up his last cigarettes (used as currency in the concentration camps) in the evening because he is convinced he won't survive the \"Appell\" (roll call assembly) the next morning; his fellow captives derided him as a \"Muselmann\". Frankl compares this to the dehumanized behavior and attitudes of the kapos. \n\nItalian philosopher Giorgio Agamben defined his key examples of 'bare life', the Muselmann and the patient in an overcoma, in relation to their passivity and inertia. The Muselmann was for him \"a being from whom humiliation, horror and fear had so taken away all consciousness and personality as to make him absolutely apathetic\", \"[m]ute and absolutely alone ... without memory and without grief.\"\n\nThe testimonial of the Polish witness, Adolf Gawalewicz, \"Refleksje z poczekalni do gazu: ze wspomnień muzułmana\" (\"Reflec­tions in the Gas Chamber's Waiting Room: From the Memoirs of a Muselmann\"), published in 1968, incorporates the term in the title of the work.\n\nCanadian Jewish author Eli Pfefferkorn published a novel in 2011 with title \"The Müselmann at the Water Cooler\".\n\nThe term spread from Auschwitz-Birkenau to other concentration camps. Its equivalent in the Majdanek concentration camp was \"Gamel\" (derived from German \"gammeln\" - colloquial for \"rotting\") and in the Stutthof concentration camp, \"Krypel\" (derived from German \"Krüppel\", \"cripple\"). When prisoners reached this emaciated condition, they were selected by camp doctors and murdered by gas, bullet or various other methods.\n\nCritics of the word Muselmann often proclaim that it is rooted in Islamophobia.\n\nThe word Muselmann frequents texts which use the term in a demeaning manner. For example, in his book \"Man's Search for Meaning\" author Victor Frankl mentions the frequent use of the word \"Musselman\" in the concentration camps of the Nazi regime. In \"Man's Search for Meaning\", Frankl berates the attitudes of those who fit his definition of the word Musselman by associating the word with those who are unable to fight the oppressive tactics utilized by the Nazis.\n\nThose prisoners considered \"Muselmänner\" and thus unable to work were also very likely to be labelled \"excess ballast\" inside the concentration camps. In spring 1941 Heinrich Himmler expressed his desire to relieve concentration camps of sick prisoners and those no longer able to work.\nAction T4, an \"euthanasia\" programme for mentally ill, disabled and other inmates of hospitals and nursing homes who were deemed unworthy of life, was extended to include the weakest concentration-camp prisoners. Himmler, together with Philipp Bouhler, transferred technology and techniques used in the Aktion T4 programme to the concentration camps, and later to \"Einsatzgruppen\" and death camps.\n\nThe first concentration-camp victims of this program were gassed by carbon monoxide poisoning and the first known Selektion took place in April 1941 at Sachsenhausen concentration camp. By the summer of 1941 at least 400 prisoners from Sachsenhausen had been \"retired\". The scheme operated under the Concentration Camps Inspector and the \"Reichsführer-SS\" under the name \"Sonderbehandlung 14f13\". The combination of numbers and letters derived from the SS record-keeping system and consists of the number \"14\" for the Concentration Camps Inspector, the letter \"f\" for the German word \"deaths\" (\"Todesfälle\") and the number \"13\" for the cause of death, in this case \"special treatment\", a bureaucratic euphemism for gassing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16764285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16764285", "title": "Noël Coward", "text": "Noël Coward\n\nSir Noël Peirce Coward (16 December 189926 March 1973) was an English playwright, composer, director, actor and singer, known for his wit, flamboyance, and what \"Time\" magazine called \"a sense of personal style, a combination of cheek and chic, pose and poise\".\n\nCoward attended a dance academy in London as a child, making his professional stage début at the age of eleven. As a teenager he was introduced into the high society in which most of his plays would be set. Coward achieved enduring success as a playwright, publishing more than 50 plays from his teens onwards. Many of his works, such as \"Hay Fever\", \"Private Lives\", \"Design for Living\", \"Present Laughter\" and \"Blithe Spirit\", have remained in the regular theatre repertoire. He composed hundreds of songs, in addition to well over a dozen musical theatre works (including the operetta \"Bitter Sweet\" and comic revues), screenplays, poetry, several volumes of short stories, the novel \"Pomp and Circumstance\", and a three-volume autobiography. Coward's stage and film acting and directing career spanned six decades, during which he starred in many of his own works.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Second World War Coward volunteered for war work, running the British propaganda office in Paris. He also worked with the Secret Service, seeking to use his influence to persuade the American public and government to help Britain. Coward won an Academy Honorary Award in 1943 for his naval film drama, \"In Which We Serve\", and was knighted in 1969. In the 1950s he achieved fresh success as a cabaret performer, performing his own songs, such as \"Mad Dogs and Englishmen\", \"London Pride\" and \"I Went to a Marvellous Party\".\n\nCoward's plays and songs achieved new popularity in the 1960s and 1970s, and his work and style continue to influence popular culture. He did not publicly acknowledge his homosexuality, but it was discussed candidly after his death by biographers including Graham Payn, his long-time partner, and in Coward's diaries and letters, published posthumously. The former Albery Theatre (originally the New Theatre) in London was renamed the Noël Coward Theatre in his honour in 2006.\n\nCoward was born in 1899 in Teddington, Middlesex, a south-western suburb of London. His parents were Arthur Sabin Coward (18561937), a piano salesman, and Violet Agnes Coward (18631954), daughter of , a captain and surveyor in the Royal Navy. Violet's cousin, Rachel Veitch, was mother of Field-Marshal Douglas Haig. Noël Coward was the second of their three sons, the eldest of whom had died in 1898 at the age of six. Coward's father lacked ambition and industry, and family finances were often poor. Coward was bitten by the performing bug early and appeared in amateur concerts by the age of seven. He attended the Chapel Royal Choir School as a young child. He had little formal schooling but was a voracious reader.\n\nEncouraged by his ambitious mother, who sent him to a dance academy in London, Coward's first professional engagement was in January 1911 as Prince Mussel in the children's play \"The Goldfish\". In \"Present Indicative\", his first volume of memoirs, Coward wrote:\n\nThe leading actor-manager Charles Hawtrey, whom the young Coward idolised and from whom he learned a great deal about the theatre, cast him in the children's play \"Where the Rainbow Ends\". Coward played in the piece in 1911 and 1912 at the Garrick Theatre in London's West End. In 1912 Coward also appeared at the Savoy Theatre in \"An Autumn Idyll\" (as a dancer in the ballet) and at the London Coliseum in \"A Little Fowl Play\", by Harold Owen, in which Hawtrey starred. Italia Conti engaged Coward to appear at the Liverpool Repertory Theatre in 1913, and in the same year he was cast as the Lost Boy Slightly in \"Peter Pan\". He reappeared in \"Peter Pan\" the following year, and in 1915 he was again in \"Where the Rainbow Ends\". He worked with other child actors in this period, including Hermione Gingold (whose mother threatened to turn \"that naughty boy\" out); Fabia Drake; Esmé Wynne, with whom he collaborated on his earliest plays; Alfred Willmore, later known as Micheál Mac Liammóir; and Gertrude Lawrence who, Coward wrote in his memoirs, \"gave me an orange and told me a few mildly dirty stories, and I loved her from then onwards.\"\nIn 1914, when Coward was fourteen, he became the protégé and probably the lover of Philip Streatfeild, a society painter. Streatfeild introduced him to Mrs Astley Cooper and her high society friends. Streatfeild died from tuberculosis in 1915, but Mrs Astley Cooper continued to encourage her late friend's protégé, who remained a frequent guest at her estate, Hambleton Hall.\n\nCoward continued to perform during most of the First World War, appearing at the Prince of Wales's Theatre in 1916 in \"The Happy Family\" and on tour with Amy Brandon Thomas's company in \"Charley's Aunt\". In 1917, he appeared in \"The Saving Grace\", a comedy produced by Hawtrey. Coward recalled in his memoirs, \"My part was reasonably large and I was really quite good in it, owing to the kindness and care of Hawtrey's direction. He took endless trouble with me... and taught me during those two short weeks many technical points of comedy acting which I use to this day.\"\n\nIn 1918, Coward was conscripted into the Artists Rifles but was assessed as unfit for active service because of a tubercular tendency, and he was discharged on health grounds after nine months. That year he appeared in the D W Griffith film \"Hearts of the World\" in an uncredited role. He sold short stories to several magazines to help his family financially. He also began writing plays, collaborating on the first two (\"Ida Collaborates\" (1917) and \"Women and Whisky\" (1918)) with his friend Esmé Wynne. His first solo effort as a playwright was \"The Rat Trap\" (1918) which was eventually produced at the Everyman Theatre, Hampstead, in October 1926. During these years, he met Lorn McNaughtan, who became his private secretary and served in that capacity for more than forty years, until her death.\n\nIn 1920, at the age of 20, Coward starred in his own play, the light comedy \"I'll Leave It to You\". After a tryout in Manchester, it opened in London at the New Theatre (renamed the Noël Coward Theatre in 2006), his first full-length play in the West End. Neville Cardus's praise in \"The Manchester Guardian\" was grudging. Notices for the London production were mixed, but encouraging. \"The Observer\" commented, \"Mr Coward... has a sense of comedy, and if he can overcome a tendency to smartness, he will probably produce a good play one of these days.\" \"The Times\", on the other hand, was enthusiastic: \"It is a remarkable piece of work from so young a head – spontaneous, light, and always 'brainy'.\"\nThe play ran for a month (and was Coward's first play seen in America), after which Coward returned to acting in works by other writers, starring as Ralph in \"The Knight of the Burning Pestle\" in Birmingham and then London. He did not enjoy the role, finding Francis Beaumont and his sometime collaborator John Fletcher \"two of the dullest Elizabethan writers ever known ... I had a very, very long part, but I was very, very bad at it\". Nevertheless, \"The Manchester Guardian\" thought that Coward got the best out of the role, and \"The Times\" called the play \"the jolliest thing in London\".\n\nCoward completed a one-act satire, \"The Better Half\", about a man's relationship with two women. It had a short run at The Little Theatre, London, in 1922. The critic St John Ervine wrote of the piece, \"When Mr Coward has learned that tea-table chitter-chatter had better remain the prerogative of women he will write more interesting plays than he now seems likely to write.\" The play was thought to be lost until a typescript was found in 2007 in the archive of the Lord Chamberlain's Office, the official censor of stage plays in the UK until 1968.\n\nIn 1921, Coward made his first trip to America, hoping to interest producers there in his plays. Although he had little luck, he found the Broadway theatre stimulating. He absorbed its smartness and pace into his own work, which brought him his first real success as a playwright with \"The Young Idea\". The play opened in London in 1923, after a provincial tour, with Coward in one of the leading roles. The reviews were good: \"Mr Noël Coward calls his brilliant little farce a 'comedy of youth', and so it is. And youth pervaded the Savoy last night, applauding everything so boisterously that you felt, not without exhilaration, that you were in the midst of a 'rag'.\" One critic, who noted the influence of Bernard Shaw on Coward's writing, thought more highly of the play than of Coward's newly found fans: \"I was unfortunately wedged in the centre of a group of his more exuberant friends who greeted each of his sallies with 'That's a Noëlism!'\" The play ran in London from 1 February to 24 March 1923, after which Coward turned to revue, co-writing and performing in André Charlot's \"London Calling!\"\nIn 1924, Coward achieved his first great critical and financial success as a playwright with \"The Vortex.\" The story is about a nymphomaniac socialite and her cocaine-addicted son (played by Coward). Some saw the drugs as a mask for homosexuality; Kenneth Tynan later described it as \"a jeremiad against narcotics with dialogue that sounds today not so much stilted as high-heeled\". \"The Vortex\" was considered shocking in its day for its depiction of sexual vanity and drug abuse among the upper classes. Its notoriety and fiery performances attracted large audiences, justifying a move from a small suburban theatre to a larger one in the West End. Coward, still having trouble finding producers, raised the money to produce the play himself. During the run of \"The Vortex\", Coward met Jack Wilson, an American stockbroker (later a director and producer), who became his business manager and lover. Wilson used his position to steal from Coward, but the playwright was in love and accepted both the larceny and Wilson's heavy drinking.\n\nThe success of \"The Vortex\" in both London and America caused a great demand for new Coward plays. In 1925 he premiered \"Fallen Angels\", a three-act comedy that amused and shocked audiences with the spectacle of two middle-aged women slowly getting drunk while awaiting the arrival of their mutual lover. \"Hay Fever\", the first of Coward's plays to gain an enduring place in the mainstream theatrical repertoire, also appeared in 1925. It is a comedy about four egocentric members of an artistic family who casually invite acquaintances to their country house for the weekend and bemuse and enrage each other's guests. Some writers have seen elements of Coward's old mentor, Mrs Astley Cooper, and her set in the characters of the family. By the 1970s the play was recognised as a classic, described in \"The Times\" as a \"dazzling achievement; like \"The Importance of Being Earnest\", it is pure comedy with no mission but to delight, and it depends purely on the interplay of characters, not on elaborate comic machinery.\" By June 1925 Coward had four shows running in the West End: \"The Vortex\", \"Fallen Angels\", \"Hay Fever\" and \"On with the Dance\". Coward was turning out numerous plays and acting in his own works and others'. Soon, his frantic pace caught up with him, and he collapsed on stage in 1926 while starring in a stage adaptation of \"The Constant Nymph\" and had to take an extended rest, recuperating in Hawaii.\n\nOther Coward works produced in the mid-to-late 1920s included the plays \"Easy Virtue\" (1926), a drama about a divorcée's clash with her snobbish in-laws; \"The Queen Was in the Parlour\", a Ruritanian romance; \"This Was a Man\" (1926), a comedy about adulterous aristocrats; \"The Marquise\" (1927), an eighteenth-century costume drama; \"Home Chat\" (1927), a comedy about a married woman's fidelity; and the revues \"On with the Dance\" (1925) and \"This Year of Grace\" (1928). None of these shows has entered the regular repertoire, but the last introduced one of Coward's best-known songs, \"A Room with a View\". His biggest failure in this period was the play \"Sirocco\" (1927), which concerns free love among the wealthy. It starred Ivor Novello, of whom Coward said, \"the two most beautiful things in the world are Ivor's profile and my mind\". Theatregoers hated the play, showing violent disapproval at the curtain calls and spitting at Coward as he left the theatre. Coward later said of this flop, \"My first instinct was to leave England immediately, but this seemed too craven a move, and also too gratifying to my enemies, whose numbers had by then swollen in our minds to practically the entire population of the British Isles.\"\n\nBy 1929 Coward was one of the world's highest-earning writers, with an annual income of £50,000, more than £2,000,000 in terms of 2007 values. Coward thrived during the Great Depression, writing a succession of popular hits. They ranged from large-scale spectaculars to intimate comedies. Examples of the former were the operetta \"Bitter Sweet\" (1929), about a woman who elopes with her music teacher, and the historical extravaganza \"Cavalcade\" (1931) at Drury Lane, about thirty years in the lives of two families, which required a huge cast, gargantuan sets and a complex hydraulic stage. Its 1933 film adaptation won the Academy Award for best picture. Coward's intimate-scale hits of the period included \"Private Lives\" (1930) and \"Design for Living\" (1932). In \"Private Lives\", Coward starred alongside his most famous stage partner, Gertrude Lawrence, together with the young Laurence Olivier. It was a highlight of both Coward's and Lawrence's career, selling out in both London and New York. Coward disliked long runs, and after this he made a rule of starring in a play for no more than three months at any venue. \"Design for Living\", written for Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne, was so risqué, with its theme of bisexuality and a \"ménage à trois\", that Coward premiered it in New York, knowing that it would not survive the censor in London.\nIn 1933 Coward wrote, directed and co-starred with the French singer Yvonne Printemps in both London and New York productions of an operetta, \"Conversation Piece\" (1933). He next wrote, directed and co-starred with Lawrence in \"\" (1936), a cycle of ten short plays, presented in various permutations across three evenings. One of these plays, \"Still Life\", was expanded into the 1945 David Lean film \"Brief Encounter\". \"Tonight at 8:30\" was followed by a musical, \"Operette\" (1938), from which the most famous number is \"The Stately Homes of England\", and a revue entitled \"Set to Music\" (1938, a Broadway version of his 1932 London revue, \"Words and Music\"). Coward's last pre-war plays were \"This Happy Breed\", a drama about a working-class family, and \"Present Laughter\", a comic self-caricature with an egomaniac actor as the central character. These were first performed in 1942, although they were both written in 1939.\n\nBetween 1929 and 1936 Coward recorded many of his best-known songs for His Master's Voice (HMV), now reissued on CD, including the romantic \"I'll See You Again\" from \"Bitter Sweet\", the comic \"Mad Dogs and Englishmen\" from \"Words and Music\", and \"Mrs Worthington\".\n\nWith the outbreak of the Second World War Coward abandoned the theatre and sought official war work. After running the British propaganda office in Paris, where he concluded that \"if the policy of His Majesty's Government is to bore the Germans to death I don't think we have time\", he worked on behalf of British intelligence. His task was to use his celebrity to influence American public and political opinion in favour of helping Britain. He was frustrated by British press criticism of his foreign travel while his countrymen suffered at home, but he was unable to reveal that he was acting on behalf of the Secret Service. In 1942 George VI wished to award Coward a knighthood for his efforts, but was dissuaded by Winston Churchill. Mindful of the public view of Coward's flamboyant lifestyle, Churchill used, as his reason for withholding the honour, Coward's £200 fine for contravening currency regulations in 1941.\n\nHad the Germans invaded Britain, Coward was scheduled to be arrested and killed, as he was in The Black Book along with other figures such as Virginia Woolf, Paul Robeson, Bertrand Russell, C. P. Snow and H. G. Wells. When this came to light after the war, Coward wrote: \"If anyone had told me at that time I was high up on the Nazi blacklist, I should have laughed ... I remember Rebecca West, who was one of the many who shared the honour with me, sent me a telegram which read: 'My dear – the people we should have been seen dead with'.\"\nChurchill's view was that Coward would do more for the war effort by entertaining the troops and the home front than by intelligence work: \"Go and sing to them when the guns are firing – that's your job!\" Coward, though disappointed, followed this advice. He toured, acted and sang indefatigably in Europe, Africa, Asia and America. He wrote and recorded war-themed popular songs, including \"London Pride\" and \"Don't Let's Be Beastly to the Germans\". His London home was wrecked by German bombs in 1941, and he took up temporary residence at the Savoy Hotel. During one air raid on the area around the Savoy he joined Carroll Gibbons and Judy Campbell in impromptu cabaret to distract the captive guests from their fears. Another of Coward's wartime projects, as writer, star, composer and co-director (alongside David Lean), was the naval film drama \"In Which We Serve\". The film was popular on both sides of the Atlantic, and he was awarded an honorary certificate of merit at the 1943 Academy Awards ceremony. Coward played a naval captain, basing the character on his friend Lord Louis Mountbatten. Lean went on to direct and adapt film versions of several Coward plays.\n\nCoward's most enduring work from the war years was the hugely successful black comedy \"Blithe Spirit\" (1941), about a novelist who researches the occult and hires a medium. A séance brings back the ghost of his first wife, causing havoc for the novelist and his second wife. With 1,997 consecutive performances, it broke box-office records for the run of a West End comedy, and was also produced on Broadway, where its original run was 650 performances. The play was adapted into a 1945 film, directed by Lean. Coward toured during 1942 in \"Blithe Spirit\", alternating the piece with his comedy \"Present Laughter\" and his working-class drama \"This Happy Breed\".\n\nIn his \"Middle East Diary\" Coward made several statements that offended many Americans. In particular, he commented that he was \"less impressed by some of the mournful little Brooklyn boys lying there in tears amid the alien corn with nothing worse than a bullet wound in the leg or a fractured arm\". After protests from both \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\", the Foreign Office urged Coward not to visit the United States in January 1945. He did not return to America again during the war. In the aftermath of the war, Coward wrote an alternative reality play, \"Peace In Our Time\", depicting an England occupied by Nazi Germany.\n\nCoward's new plays after the war were moderately successful but failed to match the popularity of his pre-war hits. \"Relative Values\" (1951) addresses the culture clash between an aristocratic English family and a Hollywood actress with matrimonial ambitions; \"South Sea Bubble\" (1951) is a political comedy set in a British colony; \"Quadrille\" (1952) is a drama about Victorian love and elopement; and \"Nude with Violin\" (1956, starring John Gielgud in London and Coward in New York) is a satire on modern art and critical pretension. A revue, \"Sigh No More\" (1945), was a moderate success, but two musicals, \"Pacific 1860\" (1946), a lavish South Seas romance, and \"Ace of Clubs\" (1949), set in a night club, were financial failures. Further blows in this period were the deaths of Coward's friends Charles Cochran and Gertrude Lawrence, in 1951 and 1952 respectively. Despite his disappointments, Coward maintained a high public profile; his performance as King Magnus in Shaw's \"The Apple Cart\" for the Coronation season of 1953, co-starring Margaret Leighton, received much coverage in the press, and his cabaret act, honed during his wartime tours entertaining the troops, was a supreme success, first in London at the Café de Paris, and later in Las Vegas. The theatre critic Kenneth Tynan wrote:\nIn 1955 Coward's cabaret act at Las Vegas, recorded live for the gramophone, and released as \"Noël Coward at Las Vegas\" was so successful that CBS engaged him to write and direct a series of three 90-minute television specials for the 1955–56 season. The first of these, \"Together With Music\", paired Coward with Mary Martin, featuring him in many of the numbers from his Las Vegas act. It was followed by productions of \"Blithe Spirit\" in which he starred with Claudette Colbert, Lauren Bacall and Mildred Natwick and \"This Happy Breed\" with Edna Best and Roger Moore. Despite excellent reviews, the audience viewing figures were moderate.\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s Coward continued to write musicals and plays. \"After the Ball\", his 1953 adaptation of \"Lady Windermere's Fan\", was the last musical he premiered in the West End; his last two musicals were first produced on Broadway. \"Sail Away\" (1961), set on a luxury cruise liner, was Coward's most successful post-war musical, with productions in America, Britain and Australia. \"The Girl Who Came to Supper\", a musical adaptation of \"The Sleeping Prince\" (1963), ran for only three months. He directed the successful 1964 Broadway musical adaptation of \"Blithe Spirit\", called \"High Spirits\". Coward's late plays include a farce, \"Look After Lulu!\" (1959), and a tragi-comic study of old age, \"Waiting in the Wings\" (1960), both of which were successful despite \"critical disdain\". Coward argued that the primary purpose of a play was to entertain, and he made no attempt at modernism, which he felt was boring to the audience although fascinating to the critics. His comic novel, \"Pomp and Circumstance\" (1960), about life in a tropical British colony, met with more critical success.\n\nCoward's final stage success came with \"Suite in Three Keys\" (1966), a trilogy set in a hotel penthouse suite. He wrote it as his swan song as a stage actor: \"I would like to act once more before I fold my bedraggled wings.\" The trilogy gained glowing reviews and did good box office business in the UK. In one of the three plays, \"A Song at Twilight\", Coward abandoned his customary reticence on the subject and played an explicitly homosexual character. The daring piece earned Coward new critical praise. He intended to star in the trilogy on Broadway but was too ill to travel. Only two of the \"Suite in Three Keys\" plays were performed in New York, with the title changed to \"Noël Coward in Two Keys\", starring Hume Cronyn.\n\nCoward won new popularity in several notable films later in his career, such as \"Around the World in 80 Days\" (1956), \"Our Man in Havana\" (1959), \"Bunny Lake Is Missing\" (1965), \"Boom!\" (1968) and \"The Italian Job\" (1969). Stage and film opportunities he turned down in the 1950s included an invitation to compose a musical version of \"Pygmalion\" (two years before \"My Fair Lady\" was written), and offers of the roles of the king in the original stage production of \"The King and I\", and Colonel Nicholson in the film \"The Bridge on the River Kwai\". Invited to play the title role in the 1962 film \"Dr. No\", he replied, \"No, no, no, a thousand times, no.\" In the same year, he turned down the role of Humbert Humbert in \"Lolita\", saying, \"At my time of life the film story would be logical if the 12-year-old heroine was a sweet little old lady.\"\n\nIn the mid-1960s and early 1970s successful productions of his 1920s and 1930s plays, and new revues celebrating his music, including \"Oh, Coward!\" on Broadway and \"Cowardy Custard\" in London, revived Coward's popularity and critical reputation. He dubbed this comeback \"Dad's Renaissance\". It began with a hit 1963 revival of \"Private Lives\" in London and then New York. Invited to direct \"Hay Fever\" with Edith Evans at the National Theatre, he wrote in 1964, \"I am thrilled and flattered and frankly a little flabbergasted that the National Theatre should have had the curious perceptiveness to choose a very early play of mine and to give it a cast that could play the Albanian telephone directory.\"\n\nOther examples of \"Dad's Renaissance\" included a 1968 Off-Broadway production of \"Private Lives\" at the Theatre de Lys starring Elaine Stritch, Lee Bowman and Betsy von Furstenberg, and directed by Charles Nelson Reilly. Despite this impressive cast, Coward's popularity had risen so high that the theatre poster for the production used an Al Hirschfeld caricature of Coward (\"pictured\") instead of an image of the production or its stars. The illustration captures how Coward's image had changed by the 1960s: he was no longer seen as the smooth 1930s sophisticate, but as the doyen of the theatre. As \"The New Statesman\" wrote in 1964, \"Who would have thought the landmarks of the Sixties would include the emergence of Noël Coward as the grand old man of British drama? There he was one morning, flipping verbal tiddlywinks with reporters about \"Dad's Renaissance\"; the next he was... beside Forster, T. S. Eliot and the OMs, demonstrably the greatest living English playwright.\" \"Time\" wrote that \"in the 60s... his best work, with its inspired inconsequentiality, seemed to exert not only a period charm but charm, period.\"\n\nBy the end of the 1960s, Coward suffered from arteriosclerosis and, during the run of \"Suite in Three Keys\", he struggled with bouts of memory loss. This also affected his work in \"The Italian Job\", and he retired from acting immediately afterwards. Coward was knighted in 1969 and was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature. He received a Tony Award for lifetime achievement. In 1972, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters degree by the University of Sussex.\n\nCoward died at his home, Firefly Estate, in Jamaica on 26 March 1973 of heart failure and was buried three days later on the brow of Firefly Hill, overlooking the north coast of the island. A memorial service was held in St Martin-in-the-Fields in London on 29 May 1973, for which the Poet Laureate, John Betjeman, wrote and delivered a poem in Coward's honour, John Gielgud and Laurence Olivier read verse and Yehudi Menuhin played Bach. On 28 March 1984 a memorial stone was unveiled by the Queen Mother in Poets' Corner, Westminster Abbey. Thanked by Coward's partner, Graham Payn, for attending, the Queen Mother replied, \"I came because he was my friend.\"\n\nThe Noël Coward Theatre in St Martin's Lane, originally opened in 1903 as the New Theatre and later called the Albery, was renamed in his honour after extensive refurbishment, re-opening on 1 June 2006. A statue of Coward by Angela Conner was unveiled by the Queen Mother in the foyer of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane in 1998. There are also sculptures of Coward displayed in New York and Jamaica, and a bust of him in the library in Teddington, near where he was born. In 2008 an exhibition devoted to Coward was mounted at the National Theatre in London. The exhibition was later hosted by the Museum of Performance & Design in San Francisco and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nCoward was homosexual but, following the convention of his times, this was never publicly mentioned. The critic Kenneth Tynan's description in 1953 was close to an acknowledgment of Coward's sexuality: \"Forty years ago he was Slightly in \"Peter Pan\", and you might say that he has been wholly in \"Peter Pan\" ever since. No private considerations have been allowed to deflect the drive of his career; like Gielgud and Rattigan, like the late Ivor Novello, he is a congenital bachelor.\" Coward firmly believed his private business was not for public discussion, considering \"\"any\" sexual activities when over-advertised\" to be tasteless. Even in the 1960s, Coward refused to acknowledge his sexual orientation publicly, wryly observing, \"There are still a few old ladies in Worthing who don't know.\" Despite this reticence, he encouraged his secretary Cole Lesley to write a frank biography once Coward was safely dead.\n\nCoward's most important relationship, which began in the mid-1940s and lasted until his death, was with the South African stage and film actor Graham Payn. Coward featured Payn in several of his London productions. Payn later co-edited with Sheridan Morley a collection of Coward's diaries, published in 1982. Coward's other relationships included the playwright Keith Winter, actors Louis Hayward and Alan Webb, his manager Jack Wilson and the composer Ned Rorem, who published details of their relationship in his diaries. Coward had a 19-year friendship with Prince George, Duke of Kent, but biographers differ on whether it was platonic. Payn believed that it was, although Coward reportedly admitted to the historian Michael Thornton that there had been \"a little dalliance\". Coward said, on the duke's death, \"I suddenly find that I loved him more than I knew.\"\n\nCoward maintained close friendships with many women, including the actress and author Esmé Wynne-Tyson, his first collaborator and constant correspondent; Gladys Calthrop, who designed sets and costumes for many of his works; his secretary and close confidante Lorn Loraine; the actresses Gertrude Lawrence, Joyce Carey and Judy Campbell; and \"his loyal and lifelong \"amitié amoureuse\"\", Marlene Dietrich.\n\nIn his profession, Coward was widely admired and loved for his generosity and kindness to those who fell on hard times. Stories are told of the unobtrusive way in which he relieved the needs or paid the debts of old theatrical acquaintances who had no claim on him. From 1934 until 1956, Coward was the president of the Actors Orphanage, which was supported by the theatrical industry. In that capacity, he befriended the young Peter Collinson, who was in the care of the orphanage. He became Collinson's godfather and helped him to get started in show business. When Collinson was a successful director, he invited Coward to play a role in \"The Italian Job\". Graham Payn also played a small role in the film.\nIn 1926, Coward acquired Goldenhurst Farm, in Aldington, Kent, making it his home for most of the next thirty years, except when the military used it during the Second World War. It is a Grade II listed building. In the 1950s, Coward left the UK for tax reasons, receiving harsh criticism in the press. He first settled in Bermuda but later bought houses in Jamaica and Switzerland (in the village of Les Avants, near Montreux), which remained his homes for the rest of his life. His expatriate neighbours and friends included Joan Sutherland, David Niven, Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, and Julie Andrews and Blake Edwards in Switzerland and Ian Fleming and his wife Ann in Jamaica. Coward was a witness at the Flemings' wedding, but his diaries record his exasperation with their constant bickering.\n\nCoward's political views were conservative, but not unswervingly so: he despised the government of Neville Chamberlain for its policy of appeasing Nazi Germany, and he differed sharply with Winston Churchill over the abdication crisis of 1936. Whereas Churchill supported Edward VIII's wish to marry \"his cutie\", Wallis Simpson, Coward thought the king irresponsible, telling Churchill, \"England doesn't wish for a Queen Cutie.\" Coward disliked propaganda in plays; \"The theatre is a wonderful place, a house of strange enchantment, a temple of illusion. What it most emphatically is not and never will be is a scruffy, ill-lit, fumed-oak drill hall serving as a temporary soap box for political propaganda.\" Nevertheless, his own views sometimes surfaced in his plays: both \"Cavalcade\" and \"This Happy Breed\" are, in the words of the playwright David Edgar, \"overtly Conservative political plays written in the Brechtian epic manner.\" In religion, Coward was agnostic. He wrote of his views, \"Do I believe in God? I can't say No and I can't say Yes, To me it's anybody's guess.\"\n\nCoward spelled his first name with the diæresis (\"\"I\" didn't put the dots over the 'e' in Noël. The language did. Otherwise it's not Noël but Nool!\"). The press and many book publishers failed to follow suit, and his name was printed as 'Noel' in \"The Times\", \"The Observer\" and other contemporary newspapers and books. The papers of Noël Coward are held in the University of Birmingham.\n\n\"Why\", asked Coward, \"am I always expected to wear a dressing-gown, smoke cigarettes in a long holder and say 'Darling, how wonderful'?\" The answer lay in Coward's assiduous cultivation of a carefully crafted image. As a suburban boy who had been taken up by the upper classes he rapidly acquired the taste for high life: \"I am determined to travel through life first class.\" He first wore a dressing gown onstage in \"The Vortex\" and used the fashion in several of his other famous plays, including \"Private Lives\" and \"Present Laughter\". George Walden identifies him as a modern dandy. In connection with the National Theatre's 2008 exhibition, \"The Independent\" commented, \"His famous silk, polka-dot dressing gown and elegant cigarette holder both seem to belong to another era. But 2008 is proving to be the year that Britain falls in love with Noël Coward all over again.\"\n\nAs soon as he achieved success he began polishing the Coward image: an early press photograph showed him sitting up in bed holding a cigarette holder: \"I looked like an advanced Chinese decadent in the last phases of dope.\" Soon after that, Coward wrote, \"I took to wearing coloured turtle-necked jerseys, actually more for comfort than for effect, and soon I was informed by my evening paper that I had started a fashion. I believe that to a certain extent this was true; at any rate, during the ensuing months I noticed more and more of our seedier West-End chorus boys parading about London in them.\" He soon became more cautious about overdoing the flamboyance, advising Cecil Beaton to tone down his outfits: \"It is important not to let the public have a loophole to lampoon you.\" However, Coward was happy to generate publicity from his lifestyle. In 1969 he told \"Time\" magazine, \"I acted up like crazy. I did everything that was expected of me. Part of the job.\" \"Time\" concluded, \"Coward's greatest single gift has not been writing or composing, not acting or directing, but projecting a sense of personal style, a combination of cheek and chic, pose and poise.\"\n\nCoward's distinctive clipped diction arose from his childhood: his mother was deaf and Coward developed his staccato style of speaking to make it easier for her to hear what he was saying; it also helped him eradicate a slight lisp. His nickname, \"The Master\", \"started as a joke and became true\", according to Coward. It was used of him from the 1920s onwards. Coward himself made light of it: when asked by a journalist why he was known as \"The Master\", he replied, \"Oh, you know – Jack of all trades, master of none.\" He could, however, joke about his own immodesty: \"My sense of my importance to the world is relatively small. On the other hand, my sense of my own importance to myself is tremendous.\" When a \"Time\" interviewer apologised, \"I hope you haven't been bored having to go through all these interviews for your [70th] birthday, having to answer the same old questions about yourself\", Coward rejoined, \"Not at all. I'm fascinated by the subject.\"\n\nThe playwright John Osborne said, \"Mr Coward is his own invention and contribution to this century. Anyone who cannot see that should keep well away from the theatre.\" Tynan wrote in 1964, \"Even the youngest of us will know, in fifty years' time, exactly what we mean by 'a very Noel Coward sort of person'.\" In praise of Coward's versatility, Lord Mountbatten said, in a tribute on Coward's seventieth birthday, \"There are probably greater painters than Noël, greater novelists than Noël, greater librettists, greater composers of music, greater singers, greater dancers, greater comedians, greater tragedians, greater stage producers, greater film directors, greater cabaret artists, greater TV stars. If there are, they are fourteen different people. Only one man combined all fourteen different labels – The Master.\"\nTynan's was the first generation of critics to realise that Coward's plays might enjoy more than ephemeral success. In the 1930s, Cyril Connolly wrote that they were \"written in the most topical and perishable way imaginable, the cream in them turns sour overnight\". What seemed daring in the 1920s and 1930s came to seem old-fashioned in the 1950s, and Coward never repeated the success of his pre-war plays. By the 1960s, critics began to note that underneath the witty dialogue and the Art Deco glamour of the inter-war years, Coward's best plays also dealt with recognisable people and familiar relationships, with an emotional depth and pathos that had been often overlooked. By the time of his death, \"The Times\" was writing of him, \"None of the great figures of the English theatre has been more versatile than he\", and the paper ranked his plays in \"the classical tradition of Congreve, Sheridan, Wilde and Shaw\".\n\nA symposium published in 1999 to mark the centenary of Coward's birth listed some of his major productions scheduled for the year in Britain and North America, including \"Ace of Clubs, After the Ball, Blithe Spirit, Cavalcade, Easy Virtue, Hay Fever, Present Laughter, Private Lives, Sail Away, A Song at Twilight, The Young Idea\" and \"Waiting in the Wings\", with stars including Lauren Bacall, Rosemary Harris, Ian McKellen, Corin Redgrave, Vanessa Redgrave and Elaine Stritch. In another tribute, Tim Rice said of Coward's songs: \"The wit and wisdom of Noël Coward's lyrics will be as lively and contemporary in 100 years' time as they are today\", and many have been recorded by Damon Albarn, Ian Bostridge, The Divine Comedy, Elton John, Valerie Masterson, Paul McCartney, Michael Nyman, Pet Shop Boys, Vic Reeves, Sting, Joan Sutherland, Robbie Williams and others.\n\nCoward's music, writings, characteristic voice and style have been widely parodied and imitated, for instance in \"Monty Python\", \"Round the Horne\" and \"Privates on Parade\". Coward has frequently been depicted as a character in plays, films, television and radio shows, for example, in the 1968 Julie Andrews film \"Star!\" (in which Coward was portrayed by his godson, Daniel Massey), the BBC sitcom \"Goodnight Sweetheart\" and a BBC Radio 4 series written by Marcy Kahan in which Coward was dramatised as a detective in \"Design For Murder\" (2000), \"A Bullet at Balmain's\" (2003) and \"Death at the Desert Inn\" (2005), and as a spy in \"Blithe Spy\" (2002) and \"Our Man In Jamaica\" (2007), with Malcolm Sinclair playing Coward in each. On stage, characters based on Coward have included Beverly Carlton in the 1939 Broadway play \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\". A play about the friendship between Coward and Dietrich, called \"Lunch with Marlene\", by Chris Burgess, ran at the New End Theatre in 2008. The second act presents a musical revue, including Coward songs such as \"Don't Let's Be Beastly to the Germans\".\n\nCoward was an early admirer of the plays of Harold Pinter and backed Pinter's film version of \"The Caretaker\" with a £1,000 investment. Some critics have detected Coward's influence in Pinter's plays. Tynan compared Pinter's \"elliptical patter\" to Coward's \"stylised dialogue\". Pinter returned the compliment by directing the National Theatre's revival of \"Blithe Spirit\" in 1976.\n\nCoward wrote more than three hundred songs. The Noël Coward Society's website, drawing on performing statistics from the publishers and the Performing Rights Society, names \"Mad About the Boy\" (from \"Words and Music\") as Coward's most popular song, followed, in order, by:\nIn the society's second tier of favourites are:\n\nCoward was no fan of the works of Gilbert and Sullivan, but as a songwriter was nevertheless strongly influenced by them. He recalled: \"I was born into a generation that still took light music seriously. The lyrics and melodies of Gilbert and Sullivan were hummed and strummed into my consciousness at an early age. My father sang them, my mother played them... my aunts and uncles, who were legion, sang them singly and in unison at the slightest provocation.\" His colleague Terence Rattigan wrote that as a lyricist Coward was \"the best of his kind since W. S. Gilbert.\"\n\n\n\nNotes\nReferences\n\n\n\nWorks\n\nPortals\n"}
{"id": "1755816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1755816", "title": "Prey drive", "text": "Prey drive\n\nPrey drive is the instinctive inclination of a carnivore to find, pursue and capture prey. The term is chiefly used to describe and analyse habits in dog training.\nIn all predators the prey drive follows an inevitable sequence: Search (orient, eye); Stalk; Chase; Bite (grab-bite, kill-bite); Dissect; Consume. In wolves, the prey drive is complete and balanced, as it utilises the whole range from search to kill, ending in the consumption of the prey.\n\nIn different breeds of dog certain steps of these five have been amplified or reduced by human-controlled selective breeding for various purposes. The \"search\" aspect of the prey drive, for example, is most valuable in detection dogs such as bloodhounds and beagles. The \"eye-stalk\" is a strong component of the behaviors used by herding dogs. The \"chase\" is seen most clearly in racing dogs such as Greyhounds and Lurchers, while the \"grab-bite\" and \"kill-bite\" are valuable in the training of terriers. \n\nIn many breeds of dog, prey drive is so strong that the chance to satisfy the drive is its own reward, and extrinsic reinforcers are not required to compel the dog to perform the behaviour.\n\nIn dog training, prey drive can be used as a performative advantage because dogs with strong prey drive are also willing to pursue moving objects such as toys, which can then be used to encourage certain kinds of behavior, such as that of greyhound racing or the speed required in dog agility. Prey drive can be an important component of pet dog training, obedience training and schutzhund as well. Games such as fetch and tug-of-war can be an effective motivator and reward for learning.\n\nCertain aspects of the prey drive can be a disadvantage in some dogs. In retrievers, for example, the dog is expected to chase prey and bring it back to the human hunter, but not bite or damage it. Herding dogs must exhibit the stalking and chasing aspects of prey drive, but should have strongly inhibited grab bite and kill bite stages to prevent them wounding stock. Bull Terriers such as the Staffordshire bull terrier have an amplified grab-bite as they were originally bred to bait bulls (restrain bulls by hanging onto their noses), but never needed to find or stalk the prey.\n\nLevels of prey drive often vary substantially in different dogs. Therefore, a dog with low drive does not make a successful detection or search dog, but a dog who is too high in prey drive may be unsuitable as a pet for a suburban home, as it may become bored and destructive when its high drive is not regularly satisfied.\n\nDogs are happiest and most balanced in overall behavior when their prey drive is properly stimulated and satisfied through play. Many professional dog trainers consider dog bite tug to be an effective training tool in prey drive and \"retrieve\" skills development.\n"}
{"id": "28477600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28477600", "title": "Robert Eric Charles Browne", "text": "Robert Eric Charles Browne\n\nRev. Robert Eric Charles Browne (11 August 1906 – 1975) was a Church of England clergyman and religious writer.\n\nBrowne was born in Belfast, the son of Canon John Edward Browne. He studied at Trinity College, Dublin. He obtained a B.A. degree from Trinity in 1928 and an M.A. in 1938. In 1929, he was ordained Deacon in the Church of Ireland by the Bishop of Down, and he was ordained priest a year later.\n\nHe served curacies in Belfast, initially at St Luke's and then at St Thomas. In 1942, he was appointed Chaplain of Saint Columba's College, Dublin (Rathfarnham) and in 1946 he moved to London to become the Secretary to the Theological Colloges department of the SCM (Student Christian Movement).\n\nThree years later he moved to Manchester and became Rector of All Saints, Gorton and in 1953 he became incumbent of the tractarian St Chrysostom's Church in Victoria Park, Manchester, from which he retired, due to ill health in 1959. Browne was appointed an examining chaplain to the Bishop of Manchester in 1952 and a Canon of Manchester Cathedral from 1964.\n\nHe died in Manchester in 1975.\n\nWhile Rector of St Chrysostom's Church Browne wrote two books, \"Meditations on the Temptations and Passion of our Lord\" (1955) and the influential work \"The Ministry of the Word\" in 1958.\n\n"}
{"id": "29533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29533", "title": "Savage Land", "text": "Savage Land\n\nThe Savage Land is a hidden prehistoric land appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. It is a tropical preserve hidden in Antarctica. Throughout time, it has served as a basis for many story arcs in \"Uncanny X-Men\" as well as in related books.\n\nThe Savage Land first appeared in \"X-Men\" #10 (March 1965) and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.\n\nThe Savage Land was created by the alien Nuwali at the behest of the other-dimensional, nigh-omnipotent aliens known as the Beyonders who sought to observe the process of evolution under relatively controlled conditions and had the Nuwali set up a number of game preserves on several planets. One of these planets was Earth during the Triassic period where the Nuwali chose a valley in Antarctica surrounded by active volcanoes, where they installed a number of advanced technological devices in order to maintain a tropical climate. The aliens then stocked the area with all manner of Earth life over the following several millennia. They also brought over the Man-Apes, earlier hominid ancestors of \"Homo sapiens\".\n\nThe Beyonders eventually grew bored with the experiment, and the Nuwali stopped maintaining the Savage Land during the Late Pleistocene (the Ice Age era). However, the self-maintaining technology that allowed the pocket of tropical climate was left running, and many species which became extinct in other areas of the Earth continued to thrive within the Savage Land.\n\nLater on, a group of human survivors from Atlantis sailed to Antarctica before the \"Great Cataclysm\" which sank Atlantis into the ocean. There, they discovered a cavern where they found an immense climate-controlling device and harnessed the technology used to keep the Savage Land's volcanoes working. They named their location \"Pangea\", which is Atlantean for \"paradise\".\n\nThey mastered genetic engineering, which had been used on the Man-Apes when the Nuwali were still maintaining the Savage Land area. They used their genetic engineering techniques to transform other Savage Land inhabitants like the Golden People, the Lizard Men, the Reptile Men, the Tubantis, and others. The Atlanteans then forced them to work for them until these animal people revolted. After a time of war, the animal people demanded civil rights and the Atlanteans used technology to expand the Savage Land's surface area for the animal people to live in. When the Great Cataclysm struck, the Atlantean empire fell and thanks to the machines, the Savage Land locations were spared from sinking into the sea.\n\nIn more recent years, the Savage Land was rediscovered by Lord Robert Plunder, who took back a sample of the metal known as \"anti-metal\" or \"Antarctic vibranium\" with him. This mysterious metal had the ability to produce vibrations which would liquefy all other metals. Fleeing from those who sought to steal this discovery, Plunder took his eldest son Kevin with him for a second trip into the Savage Land. Unfortunately, the elder Plunder was killed by a local tribe of Man-Apes.\n\nKevin survived, thanks to the timely intervention of the orphaned sabretooth tiger later known as Zabu. He grew to adulthood in the Savage Land, becoming the adventurer known as Ka-Zar. Ka-Zar had many team-ups with the X-Men, who first revealed the Savage Land's existence, Spider-Man, and many other superheroes who had visited the Savage Land. He later met and married Shanna the She-Devil.\n\nThe Savage Land's existence is common knowledge throughout the world. At one time, there were press junkets, sponsored by the oil company Roxxon. \"Daily Bugle\" photographer Peter Parker was sent and helped uncover Roxxon's unethical and dangerous manipulation of the local resources.\n\nAt one point, Spider-Man teamed up with Ka-Zar to save Gwen Stacy from Kraven the Hunter and Gog at the time when her class and J. Jonah Jameson were visiting the Savage Land.\n\nMany villains have threatened the Savage Land, including Sauron, Garokk, Magneto, and Thanos.\n\nIn issue #257 of \"The Avengers\" the Savage Land was decimated by an evil alien named Terminus (or one of his pawns) when he destroyed the machines that maintained the tropical climate. Many of the Savage Land's native people were saved from the ensuing destruction by M'rin: The Warlord of The Skies who took them into her own native dimension to safety. Ka-Zar, Shanna, and Zabu wandered until the High Evolutionary (with help from the X-Men, M'rin and Garokk) restored the region and its creatures, allowing them to return to the Savage Land with their newborn son. The other natives who had taken refuge in M'rin's dimension returned as well.\n\nSometime after that, Spider-Man had Devil Dinosaur and Moon-Boy emigrated to the Savage Land after rescuing them from Ringmaster.\n\nEvidence in the pages of the \"New Avengers\" suggests that S.H.I.E.L.D. is operating in the Savage Land, mining vibranium while using the indigenous population as slave labor, but these operations have been classified, and the operation was apparently decimated by a missile strike from the Helicarrier during an attack by the New Avengers. The team only survived thanks to Iron Man's force field.\n\nThe Savage Land is featured in the limited series \"Claws\", serving as a place of revenge for Wolverine and Black Cat on Arcade and White Rabbit. After defeating the two villains, the heroes left them stranded.\n\nIn \"\", Cyclops and Emma Frost were vacationing there until Archangel contacted them about San Francisco looking like the 1960s.\n\nAlyosha Kravinoff fled to the Savage Land after Punisher sabotaged his zoo.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, Ka-Zar and Shanna discover Skrulls mining for vibranium. The New Avengers and the Mighty Avengers head toward the Savage Land where a downed Skrull ship was sighted. Luke Cage opens the downed Skrull ship and a large group of Marvel superheroes with older appearances and costumes come out, speaking as if they believe themselves to be authentic. They soon break out into a fight where the Spider-Man from the ship is killed by a Tyrannosaurus and regresses to a Skrull. The Hawkeye from the ship is killed by Ronin and regresses to a Skrull. This causes the superheroes from the ship to scatter into the jungle. The New Avengers' Spider-Man is knocked away by a Tyrannosaurus and ends up confronting Ka-Zar, Shanna, Zabu, and Sauron as well as some of the other locals (ranging from the Sun People, the Swamp Men, and the Tree People). At the point where Spider-Man accuses Ka-Zar and Shanna for being Skrulls, the Captain America from the ship attacks who thinks the same thing for Spider-Man. When the Captain America is hit by a dart coated in some type of poison, it regresses to a Skrull named Pit'o Nilli and is then killed by Shanna. The ship's Beast is trapped underground with Wonder Man. The two try to escape together, but Beast betrays Wonder Man as the two are about to return to the surface. During this, Iron Man uses an abandoned scientific facility nearby to try and recreate his original armor. When it came to the confrontation with both Avengers teams, the Savage Land natives, and the heroes from the ship, Mister Fantastic and Abigail Brand used a laser to identify the heroes from the ship as Skrulls. Ka-Zar joined the Avengers teams into fighting the Skrulls in New York while Shanna and the other Savage Land natives hunted down the remaining Skrulls hiding out in the Savage Land.\n\nAfter the events of \"Second Coming\" during the \"Heroic Age\" storyline, Cyclops takes some time off to go hunting in the Savage Land during which he encounters Steve Rogers. Steve Rogers suggests to Cyclops that he brings the X-Men out of the shadows and into the light as heroes. Steve Rogers also arranges to have the president award Scott the Presidential Medal of Freedom which sways the people of San Francisco to welcome the X-Men back.\n\nAround the same time following their defeat after the hunt for \"spiders\" in the \"Grim Hunt\" storyline, the Kravinoff Family are also currently residing in the Savage Land.\n\nIt is later revealed that Miek and the other Imperials and Natives from Sakaar that came with Hulk back in \"World War Hulk\" had settled in the Savage Land constructing a village called New Imperia.\n\nDuring the \"Avengers vs. X-Men\" storyline, Captain America ends up fighting Gambit in the Savage Land.\n\nAs part of the \"Marvel NOW!\" event, some of The Garden's evolution seeds had fallen into the Savage Land. While working to get it under control, the Avengers find that A.I.M. is also there where they test the extracted formula from one of the pods and tests it on their intern Dr. Jema. The formula puts a strain on Dr. Jema just as the Avengers arrive.\n\nAs part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\", Magneto led a new team of X-Men to protect mutant-kind at all costs with their base in the Savage Land.\n\nThe Marvel Universe's version of the United Nations considers the Savage Land an international wildlife preserve and forbids any commercial exploitation of its resources.\n\nThere are some famous locations in the Savage Land:\n\n\nThere are many types of races in the Savage Land and Pangea. The Nuwali transported primitive man now known as the Man-Apes, which unlike the rest of the world thrived until the 21st century. The next arrivals were the Ancient Atlanteans who added the region as part of their empire. They used the Nuwali technology to mutate the Man-Apes into various Beast-Men to perform certain tasks. These slaves rebelled after the great Cataclysm and made Pangea their home. Many Atlanteans remained and their decedents became the various human tribes, with some clinging to the old ways and technology but most forget and resort to more primitive hunter-gatherer societies. Among the Savage Land races are:\n\n\nIn the \"Age of Apocalypse\" reality, the Savage Land houses Avalon, a secret haven for humans and mutants. A method to reach it exists, but it will only cost the refugee everything they own and even then, there is no guarantee of arriving alive. It is led by Destiny, a pacifist Juggernaut and Douglas Ramsey, the latter of whom provides a field that allows everybody to understand each other despite speaking different languages. Avalon was eventually found by Apocalypse forces and destroyed by the Shadow King who mind-controlled its inhabitants into killing each other. He was defeated, but casualties were high.\n\nDuring the \"Age of Ultron\" storyline, the superhero resistance against Ultron had relocated to the Savage Land to come up with a plan to defeat Ultron.\n\nIn \"Marvel Zombies Return\", the Savage Land, like everywhere else on Earth, has been eaten by the superhuman zombies, with the surviving zombies musing that the Savage Land was their 'number one' meal in the aftermath, as it contained such an abundance of food that they were actually full for a full hour after eating there, as opposed to the usual ravenous hunger they feel. It is also the location of the final battle between the zombies and 'New Avengers'- three zombies who have beaten their hunger and the cyborg James Rhodes- at the storyline's conclusion, with Rhodes using one of his fingers to lure the zombies into an ambush.\n\nIn the \"Earth X\" universe, the Savage Land is where Magneto built his sanctuary called Sentinel City.\n\nIn the \"House of M\" reality created by an insane Scarlet Witch, the Savage Land was known as \"Pangea.\" It is also known that Kevin Plunder has been granted political asylum in the United States for his human rights activism in this prehistoric land.\n\nIn the alternate future depicted in Marvel 2099, an alien attack floods much of the earth rendering the Savage Land the only habitable space. Thousands of refugees (including Miguel O'Hara and most of X-Nation and X-Men) make new homes here. It is not without its own dangers.\n\nIn the \"Transformers\" Marvel comics continuity, shortly after the \"Ark\"' spacecraft crashed on Earth 4 million years before the present day, the computer aboard the Ark detected Shockwave landing on the prehistoric Savage Land. The \"Ark\" used the last of its capabilities to revive the five Autobot warriors by scanning the Savage Land's dominant lifeform: dinosaurs, and rebuild them into the Dinobots. The Dinobots fought Shockwave, a battle that ended in permanent stalemate when Snarl brought down the mountain that Shockwave stood upon, knocking all of them into a tar pit. They remained deactivated until the year 1984. Since the Dinobots' alt-mode forms resemble creatures that were long-extinct by 4 million years ago, the Savage Land provided author Simon Furman a way to explain this within the canon timeline.\n\nIn the Ultimate Marvel universe, the Savage Land is a large island somewhere in the southern hemisphere. It was originally said to have been created by Magneto, using theories and methods developed by Professor X, as the site for genetic experiments. Magneto's goal there was to create a new human race who would be less trouble to rule than the current one, that he decided to restart evolution from scratch, and control the process to his own specifications. As a result of this, at its current level of advancement, it has dinosaurs and that Magneto has shown no further interest in advancing the evolution of the Savage Land. It has remained in its dinosaur state since the departure of Professor X. This story is later revealed as false (see below).\n\nMagneto's original base was on the Savage Land. When it was destroyed in the first arc of \"Ultimate X-Men\", the computer controlling the base gained self-awareness, and hijacked the genetic experiment project to create an army of nanotech-enhanced, zombie-like thralls. It planned to take over the world, but was stopped by Wolverine, Cyclops, and Kitty Pryde.\n\nThe Savage Land is now the home of Longshot, who managed to get there in a small boat which launched from Genosha. Longshot recently aided Magneto in breaking out of prison, and the two may be planning something.\n\nIn \"Ultimates 3\", it is revealed that the dinosaurs were conjured by Scarlet Witch as a result of her reality warping abilities and not by Magneto's creation. The aboriginal inhabitants were wiped out and only a small tribe of survivors including Ka-Zar and Shanna remain.\n\nThe inhabitants help the Ultimates remove the last of Magneto's forces as of \"Ultimatum\".\n\nThe Savage Land appears in a \"What If\" story where the Savage Land was terraforming and has taken over New York. Both Ka-Zar and Parnival sacrifice themselves to return New York to normal, with Shanna the only survivor of his \"family.\"\n\nAdditionally, in the \"What If\" issues involving alternative outcomes to the Age of Ultron, a group composed of Wolverine, the Hulk, Peter Parker and a Ghost Rider venture to the Savage Land in order to prevent a Master Mold under the control of a future version of Ezekiel Stane from unleashing a wave of Stark armors on the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "233370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233370", "title": "Silurian (Doctor Who)", "text": "Silurian (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Silurians are a fictional race of reptile-like humanoids in the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". The species first appeared in \"Doctor Who\" in the 1970 serial \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\", and were created by Malcolm Hulke. The first Silurians introduced are depicted as prehistoric and scientifically advanced sentient humanoids who predate the dawn of man; in their backstory, the Silurians went into self-induced hibernation to survive what they predicted to be a large atmospheric upheaval caused by the Earth capturing the Moon. The Silurians introduced in the 1970 story are broad, three-eyed land-dwellers. The 1972 serial \"The Sea Devils\", also by Hulke, introduced their amphibious cousins, the so-called \"Sea Devils\". Both Silurians and Sea Devils made an appearance in 1984's \"Warriors of the Deep\". After \"Warriors of the Deep\", the Silurians did not appear in the show again before its 1989 cancellation. Heavily redesigned Silurans were reintroduced to the series in 2010, following the show's 2005 revival, and have recurred frequently since then.\nCommonly called Silurians, after their supposed origins in the Silurian period, the creatures have also been referred to by other names. In \"The Sea Devils\", the Third Doctor (Jon Pertwee) claims that \"properly speaking\", the Silurians should have been called \"Eocenes\". The name \"Homo reptilia\" is first used to describe the creatures in the novelisation \"Doctor Who and the Cave-Monsters\" (1974), and is first used in the series proper in the episode \"The Hungry Earth\" (2010). In \"The Sea Devils\", an amphibious Silurian is dubbed a \"Sea Devil\" by the human workman Clark (Declan Mulholland), while in \"Warriors of the Deep\", the land-dwelling Silurians use the term \"Sea Devil\" to refer to their aquatic counterparts.\n\nDrawing on the ideas of the Quatermass serials, producer Peter Bryant and producer and script editor Derrick Sherwin decided that for the series' seventh season, the show's protagonist the Doctor should be restricted to contemporary Earth and work alongside the UNIT organisation, featured prominently in the sixth season's serial \"The Invasion\". Producer Barry Letts and script editor Terrance Dicks, inheriting this new vision for the series, also wanted their stories for the seventh season to have a serious, deeper subtext. They approached Malcolm Hulke, co-writer of the Patrick Troughton serials \"The Faceless Ones\" (1967) and \"The War Games\" (1969), to write a serial for this new season.\n\nHulke saw limitations with this earthbound format – he believed there would be two types of stories, one featuring mad scientists and the other alien invasions. Terrance Dicks claims credit for thinking of the idea of creatures that had been there all along; however, other sources give Hulke credit for deliberately thinking his way outside his earlier preconceptions.\n\nWhile planning stories for \"Doctor Who\"'s ninth season, Dicks and Letts decided to revive the Silurian concept, this time with the twist of these new Silurians originating in the sea. Originally dubbed \"Sea Silurians\", they were rechristened \"Sea Devils\" for dramatic effect as Hulke's storyline was edited.\n\nJohnny Byrne, writer of the Peter Davison serial \"Warriors of the Deep\" (1984), notes that the Myrka creature was created to absolve the Silurians from the guilt of genocide, using the creature as a weapon of last resort.\n\nIn their first appearance in \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\" (1970), a group of Silurians are awakened from hibernation by the energy from a nearby nuclear power research center in Derbyshire. The Third Doctor (Jon Pertwee) initially manages to negotiate an honourable compromise with the colony's leader. Unfortunately, the colony's leader is murdered by a younger Silurian who becomes the new leader, intent on a far more aggressive policy. To that end, the Silurians then attempt to reclaim the planet from humanity by releasing a deadly virus and attempting to disperse the Van Allen radiation belt. Both plans were thwarted by the Doctor. Despite the Doctor's best efforts to broker a peaceful solution, the Silurians are still determined to exterminate humanity, only to have their base destroyed by the fictional organisation UNIT on the orders of Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart (Nicholas Courtney) to preempt this open threat.\n\nIn \"The Sea Devils\" (1972), an amphibious variety of Silurians are awakened from their hibernation by a renegade Time Lord known as the Master (Roger Delgado), who persuades them to reclaim the planet from the human race. Despite the Third Doctor's efforts to convince them otherwise, the Sea Devils eventually decide to go to war, forcing the Doctor to destroy their base. It is revealed, however, that there were many colonies still in hibernation around the world. The land-based Silurians and the \"Sea Devils\" next appeared, together, in \"Warriors of the Deep\" (1984), where they attempt again to reclaim Earth from the humans. Set in the year 2084 during a prolonged \"cold war\" between factions of humanity, the serial describes the Sea Devils as being elite warriors; they sport bulletproof samurai-style armour. The Fifth Doctor (Peter Davison) tries in vain to prevent any bloodshed against either species; he tells companions Tegan (Janet Fielding) and Turlough (Mark Strickson) to give the Silurians oxygen to keep them safe from the hexachromite gas he released into the base's atmosphere. The last surviving Silurian in the episode, however, is killed by Turlough, leaving the Doctor despondent.\n\nSilurians are reintroduced to the series, following its cancellation and revival, in the 2010 two-parter \"The Hungry Earth\" / \"Cold Blood\", in which Silurians are awoken in 2020 by an underground drilling operation. These Silurians lack the third eye of their 1970–1984 counterparts, and wear masks. Having misinterpreted the drilling as a deliberate attack, the Silurians take hostages. After a protracted conflict, the Eleventh Doctor (Matt Smith) leaves behind two humans in the Silurian city to act as ambassadors to the human race when the Silurians re-awaken in a thousand years.\n\nIn \"The Pandorica Opens\" (2010), some Silurians appear in A.D. 102 alongside various alien enemies of the Doctor (including alien Daleks, Sontarans, Nestenes and other species) to imprison the Doctor in the mythical \"Pandorica\" in order, as they see it, to save the universe from him.\n\nRecurring character Madame Vastra (Neve McIntosh) is then introduced in \"A Good Man Goes to War\" (2011) as a Silurian detective in the Victorian era, who befriended the Doctor after a brief rampage on the London Underground. She lives with her human wife Jenny Flint (Catrin Stewart), and after \"A Good Man\", also employs the Sontaran Strax (Dan Starkey) as her butler. The \"Paternoster Gang\", as the three are known, sometimes including the Doctor, appear again in \"The Snowmen\" (2012) and its three short prequels in 2012–2013, \"The Crimson Horror\", \"The Name of the Doctor\" (both 2013), and \"Deep Breath\" (2014). In \"The Crimson Horror\", Vastra claims to be from 65 million years ago.\n\nSilurians are mentioned in the 2011 \"\" episode \"The Blood Line\" (2011); Jack Harkness (John Barrowman) briefly muses that the Blessing (an ancient phenomenon beneath the Earth's surface) could be out of \"Silurian mythology\".\n\nA Silurian doctor named Malohkeh (played by Richard Hope) is seen attending to Winston Churchill (Ian McNeice) in \"The Wedding of River Song\" in an aborted timeline. Hope plays another Silurian in \"Dinosaurs on a Spaceship\" (2012), seen briefly on a computer screen. The titular spaceship is a Silurian Ark searching for a new planet with a cargo of dinosaurs, the Silurian colony on board having been ejected from the ship by Solomon (David Bradley) prior to the episode. The ship is shown to have reached a planet named Siluria with its dinosaurs at the episode's conclusion.\n\nIn \"The Time of the Doctor\" (2013), many Silurian Arks are seen among the ships gathered round Trenzalore.\n\nAll of the Silurian stories on television prior to 2010 were novelised. The novelisation of \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\", \"Doctor Who and the Cave-Monsters\" (1974) adds a prologue which features the beginning of the Silurians' hibernation; the novelisation avoids referring to the reptiles as Silurians. Terrance Dicks' novelisation of \"Warriors of the Deep\" (1984) describes Icthar, the sole survivor of the Silurian Triad, as a survivor of the Silurian colony in the caves near the nuclear research facility from \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\"; according to this book, the Silurians were only sealed away, not destroyed. In Seventh Doctor Virgin New Adventures novel \"Blood Heat\" (1993), Silurians of an alternate reality have conquered Earth after the Third Doctor was killed in their initial appearance, with the Seventh Doctor eventually forcing the humans and Silurians of this world into a truce. Contradicting the \"Warriors of the Deep\" novelisation, the novel \"The Scales of Injustice\" (1996) mentions that Icthar's shelter awoke forty years before the events of \"Doctor Who and the Silurians\", and that the shelter is located on the other side of the world to the British Isles. In \"The Scales of Injustice\", the power-hungry Silurian Auggi plans to eradicate humanity, beginning with an invasion fleet of Silurian hybrids on the Kent coast. UNIT successfully fights off this fleet. The Third Doctor also learns about the Silurians' battle cruisers and Myrka weapon in this book, both of which appear in \"Warriors of the Deep\".\n\nSilurians have also made many minor appearances in the Virgin New Adventures series of novels. By the 26th century, the time of human archaeologist Bernice Summerfield's, the term \"Earth Reptile\" has become popularly used to describe Silurians following their peaceful integration with human society, such as in the novel \"Eternity Weeps\" (1997). A Silurian short story, \"Cold War\", also features in the anthology \"\" (2003). Additionally, while not appearing in \"The Wheel of Ice\" (2012), they are mentioned; apparently, the Arkive attempted to lure them to Saturn, but they went into hibernation before this is possible. Madame Vastra also co-stars in the novella \"Devil in the Smoke\" (2012) and the novel \"Silhouette\" (2014).\n\nThe Silurians also make a number of appearance in comic books. Comic book story \"Twilight of the Silurians\" (1980) is set during the species' last days pre-hibernation, where Silurians observe captive \"ape-men\" in their zoological research station, millions of years ago. The comic book \"City of Devils\" (1983) features two \"Doctor Who\" companions, journalist Sarah Jane Smith and robot dog K-9 uncover a hidden city of Silurians (here, 'Eocenes') in an Egyptian archaeological dig, who seek peaceful coexistence with humans; this comic strip is based on the premise of the television spin-off special \"K9 and Company\". In the story arc \"Final Genesis\" (1993), an alternate universe is depicted wherein Silurians made peace with humanity and the two races live in harmony; UNIT is renamed URIC, the 'United Races Intelligence Command'. In the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strip cycle \"The Cybermen\" (1994–1996), the cyborg race of Cybermen discover Silurians and Sea Devils living on their own planet Mondas during an unspecified time in the past; in \"Doctor Who\", Mondas is Earth's former \"twin planet\". The strip also portrays Golgoth, a primordial humanoid reptile god-figure, who resembles a Sea Devil and may have some link to the Silurians. Madame Vastra co-stars in the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" comic strip \"The Crystal Throne\" (2014).\n\nSilurians also feature in the Big Finish Productions audio play \"Bloodtide\" (2001), in which the Sixth Doctor intervenes when Charles Darwin and the HMS \"Beagle\" expedition encounter a rogue Silurian group in the Galápagos Islands. The audio drama reveals that the leader of this group had been responsible for creating humanity's prehistoric ancestors via a forbidden breeding program, sabotaging the Silurian stasis chambers to escape punishment for his actions. In the audio drama \"The Poison Seas\" (2003), from the \"Bernice Summerfield\" series of adventures, Summerfield travels to the planet Chosan sometime in the future to assist a colony of Earth Reptiles (Sea Devils) under threat there. In \"\" (2004), the Silurians attempt to finally make peace with the humans, though the general public believes it to be a stunt involving men in rubber suits. In \"\" (2005), Silurians aid UNIT in finding a cure for a deadly plague. In 2017, the Silurians appear in the Seventh Doctor audio \"The Silurian Candidate\", where the Silurian Triad of 2088 attempt to infiltrate a crucial peace conference by brainwashing one of the participants so that he will kill himself and the other major leader in a manner that would trigger a nuclear war, but the Doctor is able to avert this plan, and instead proposes a new plan where the Silurian colonies will come out of suspended animation millennia in the future after Earth recovers from being ravaged by solar flares (as referenced in \"The Ark in Space\"), colonies gradually 'waking up' so that humanity and Silurians will essentially rebuild Earth without either side possessing numerical superiority.\n\nSilurians also appear outside \"Doctor Who\"-related media. A cave drawing of a Silurian and a Sea Devil appear in a cave on Mars in a work of steampunk fiction by D'Israeli, \"Scarlet Traces: The Great Game\". Silurians and Sea Devils are referenced in the second volume of Alan Moore's \"League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\" where they were connected to the creature from the Black Lagoon; \"League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\" is set in a fictional universe which reconciles the exploits of all fictional characters in one continuity.\n\nA 2018 journal article set to be published in the \"International Journal of Astrobiology\", in which the authors discuss the detectability of past industrial civilizations in Earth's geologic record, makes reference to the \"Silurian Hypothesis\" in its title. \n\nThe Sea Devils also feature in an animated version of ‘Dr Poo’, a character from scattological adult comic Viz based on Tom Baker’s portrayal of Doctor Who.\n"}
{"id": "275209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275209", "title": "Skvader", "text": "Skvader\n\nThe skvader () is a Swedish fictional creature that was constructed in 1918 by the taxidermist Rudolf Granberg and is permanently displayed at the museum at Norra Berget in Sundsvall. It has the forequarters and hindlegs of a European hare (\"Lepus europaeus\"), and the back, wings and tail of a female wood grouse (\"Tetrao urogallus\"). It was later jokingly given the Latin name \"Tetrao lepus pseudo-hybridus rarissimus\" L.\n\nThe name is a combination of two words, and this is the explanation provided by the \"Svenska Akademiens ordbok\" (Dictionary of the Swedish Academy): \"The prefix \"skva-\" from 'skvattra' (quack or chirp), and the suffix \"-der\" from 'tjäder' (wood grouse)\".\n\nThe skvader originates from a tall tale hunting story told by a man named Håkan Dahlmark during a dinner at a restaurant in Sundsvall in the beginning of the 20th century. To the amusement of the other guests, Dahlmark claimed that he in 1874 had shot such an animal during a hunt north of Sundsvall. On his birthday in 1907, his housekeeper jokingly presented him with a painting of the animal, made by her nephew and shortly before his death in 1912, Dahlmark donated the painting to a local museum. During an exhibition in Örnsköldsvik in 1916 the manager of the museum became acquainted with the taxidermist Rudolf Granberg. He then mentioned the hunting story and the painting and asked Granberg if he could re-construct the animal. In 1918 Granberg had completed the skvader and it has since then been a very popular exhibition item at the museum, which also has the painting on display.\n\nA strikingly similar creature called the \"rabbit-bird\" was described by Pliny the Elder in \"Natural History\". This creature had the body of a bird with a rabbit's head and was said to have inhabited the Alps.\n\nOther similar creatures include the Bavarian \"wolpertinger\", the Austrian \"raurakl\", the Thuringian Forest's \"rasselbock\", the Palatinate's \"Elwedritsche\", and the American \"jackalope\".\n\nThe skvader has since then often been seen as an unofficial symbol for Sundsvall and when the province Medelpad was to be given a provincial animal (in addition to the provincial flower) in 1987, many locals voted for the skvader. The final choice was a kind of compromise, the mountain hare, which is the front-end of the skvader.\n\nThe term \"skvader\" is nowadays used colloquially in Swedish to mean \"a bad compromise\" or \"a combination of contradicting elements\".\n\n\"Skvader\" also became the nickname in the 1950s and 1960s for a combination bus and lorry (truck), or bruck, which was commonly used on small bus routes in Norrland; the front-end was a bus taking passengers and the back-end was an open loading bay, often used for delivering milk from small farmers to the nearest dairy.\n\n\"Skvaderns\" is also a herbal liquer made with herbs from the forest Lunde Skog, the place Skvaderns first were shot at.\n\n"}
{"id": "355040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355040", "title": "Skylab 2", "text": "Skylab 2\n\nSkylab 2 (also SL-2 and SLM-1) was the first manned mission to Skylab, the first U.S. orbital space station. The mission was launched on a Saturn IB rocket on May 25, 1973, and carried a three-person crew to the station. The name Skylab 2 also refers to the vehicle used for that mission. The Skylab 2 mission established a twenty-eight-day record for human spaceflight duration. Furthermore, its crew were the first space station occupants ever to return safely to Earth – the only previous space station occupants, the crew of the 1971 Soyuz 11 mission that had manned the Salyut 1 station for twenty-four days, died upon reentry due to unexpected cabin depressurization.\n\nThe manned Skylab missions were officially designated \"Skylab 2\", \"3\", and \"4\". Miscommunication about the numbering resulted in the mission emblems reading \"Skylab I\", \"Skylab II\", and \"Skylab 3\" respectively.\n\n\n\n\nThe Skylab station suffered significant damage on its May 14 launch: its micrometeorite shield, and one of its primary solar arrays had torn loose during launch, and the remaining primary solar array was jammed. Without the shield which was designed to also provide thermal protection, Skylab baked in the Sun, and rising temperatures inside the workshop released toxic materials into the station's atmosphere and endangered on-board film and food. The first crew was supposed to launch on May 15, but instead had to train practicing repair techniques as they were developed by the engineers. Ground controllers purged the atmosphere with pure nitrogen four times, before refilling it with the nitrogen/oxygen atmosphere for the crew.\n\nOn May 25, Skylab 2 lifted from LC-39B, the first Saturn IB launch in almost five years and only the second-ever launch from Pad 39B. Booster performance was nominal except for one momentary glitch that could have threatened the mission - when the Commit signal was sent to the Saturn at ignition, the instrument unit sent a command to switch the launch vehicle from internal to external power. This would have shut down the Saturn's electrical system, but not the propulsion system and likely cause the disaster scenario of an uncontrollable booster, requiring the Launch Escape System to be activated and the Command Module pulled away to safety, followed by Range Safety destroying the errant launch vehicle. However, the duration of the cutoff signal was less than one second, too short a time for the electrical relay in the booster to be activated, thus nothing happened and the launch proceeded as planned. This glitch was traced to a modification of the pad electrical equipment and corrective steps were subsequently taken to prevent it from happening again. On reaching the station, Conrad flew their Apollo Command/Service Module (CSM) around it to inspect the damage, then soft-docked with it to avoid the necessity of station keeping while the crew ate, and flight controllers planned the first repair attempt. Then they undocked so that Conrad could position the Apollo by the jammed solar panel, so that Weitz could perform a stand-up EVA, trying to free the array by tugging at it with a 10-foot hooked pole, while Kerwin held onto his legs. This failed, and consumed a significant amount of the Skylab's nitrogen maneuvering fuel to keep it steady in the process.\n\nThe crew then attempted to perform the hard dock to Skylab, but the capture latches failed to operate. After eight failed attempts, they donned their pressure suits again and partially dis-assembled the CSM's docking probe; the next attempt worked. Once inside the station, the crew deployed a collapsible parasol through the small scientific airlock to act as a sunshade. (This approach was suggested and designed by NASA's \"Mr. Fix It\" Jack Kinzler, who was awarded the NASA Distinguished Service Medal for the effort.) Successful deployment of the sunshade dropped inside temperatures to sustainable levels.\n\nTwo weeks later, Conrad and Kerwin performed a second EVA, finally freeing the stuck solar panel and increasing the electrical power to the workshop. They had prepared for this repair by practicing in the Neutral Buoyancy Simulator at the Marshall Space Flight Center. Without power from the panel, the second and third Skylab missions would have been unable to perform their main experiments, and the station's critical battery system would have been seriously degraded. During this EVA, the sudden deployment of the solar panel structure caused both astronauts to be flung from the Skylab hull, testing their nerves as well as the strength of their safety tethers. After recovering their composure, both astronauts returned to their positions on Skylab and completed the EVA.\n\nFor nearly a month they made further repairs to the workshop, conducted medical experiments, gathered solar and Earth science data, and performed a total of 392 hours of experiments. The mission tracked two minutes of a large solar flare with the Apollo Telescope Mount; they took and returned some 29,000 frames of film of the sun. The Skylab 2 astronauts spent 28 days in space, which doubled the previous U.S. record. The mission ended successfully on June 22, 1973, when Skylab 2 splashed down in the Pacific Ocean 9.6 km from the recovery ship USS \"Ticonderoga\". Skylab 2 set the records for the longest duration manned spaceflight, greatest distance traveled and greatest mass docked in space. Conrad set the record for most time in space for an astronaut.\n\nThe Skylab 1 patch was designed by Kelly Freas, a well-known artist highly regarded in the science fiction community, who was suggested to NASA by science fiction author and editor Ben Bova. The insignia features Skylab above the earth with the sun in the background. In an article for Analog Science Fiction/Science Fact magazine, Freas said, \"Among the suggestions the astronauts had made was the idea of a solar eclipse as seen from Skylab. It soon became clear that this idea would solve several problems at once: it pointed up the solar study function of Skylab, it would give me the large circular shape of the Earth as counterpoint to the angularity of the cluster, and it would establish firmly the connection of Skylab to the Earth. In addition, it would give a chance to get the necessary high contrast for good visibility of the tiny finished patch. ... I made several studies of cloud patterns on the planet, reducing them finally to very conventionalized swirls. The Skylab cluster was simplified and simplified again, till it became simply a black form with a white edgelight to set it off.\"\n\nThe command module they flew to the station in is displayed at the National Museum of Naval Aviation, Pensacola, Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10977439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10977439", "title": "Social system", "text": "Social system\n\nIn sociology, a social system is the patterned network of relationships constituting a coherent whole that exist between individuals, groups, and institutions. It is the formal structure of role and status that can form in a small, stable group. An individual may belong to multiple social systems at once; examples of social systems include nuclear family units, communities, cities, nations, college campuses, corporations, and industries. The organization and definition of groups within a social system depend on various shared characteristics such as location, socioeconomic status, race, religion, societal function, or other distinguishable features.\n\nThe study of social systems is integral to the fields of sociology and public policy. Social systems have been studied for as long as sociology has existed.\n\nTalcott Parsons was the first to formulate a systematic theory of social systems, which he did as a part of his AGIL paradigm. He defined a social system as only a segment (or a \"subsystem\") of what he called action theory. Parsons organized social systems in terms of action units, where one action executed by an individual is one unit. He defines a social system as a network of interactions between actors. According to Parsons, social systems rely on a system of language, and culture must exist in a society in order for it to qualify as a social system. Parsons' work laid the foundations for the rest of the study of social systems theory and ignited the debate over what framework social systems should be built around, such as actions, communication, or other relationships.\n\nNiklas Luhmann was a prominent sociologist and social systems theorist who laid the foundations of modern social system thought. He based his definition of a \"social system\" on the mass network of communication between people and defined society itself as an \"autopoietic\" system, meaning a self-referential and self-reliant system that is distinct from its environment. Luhmann considered social systems as belonging to three categories: societal systems, organizations, and interaction systems. Luhmann considered societal systems, such as religion, law, art, education, science, etc., to be closed systems consisting of different fields of interaction. Organizations were defined as a network of decisions which reproduce themselves; his definition is difficult to apply in terms of finding a real-world example. Finally, interaction systems are systems that reproduce themselves on the basis of communication rather than decision making.\n\nJay Wright Forrester founded the field of system dynamics, which deals with the simulation of interactions in dynamic systems. In his work on social systems, he discusses the possibilities of social system dynamics, or modeling social systems using computers with the aim of testing the possible effects of passing new public policies or laws. In his paper he recognized the difficulty of producing a reliable computer model system, but argued that an imperfect model was better than none and simply implementing new policy.\n\nForrester argued that unsuccessful public policies aim to treat the symptoms rather than the causes of social issues and that they also generally focus on rather than efforts. This occurs because there is either an incomplete understanding or a misunderstanding of the causes of an issue on the part of the policymakers, which often leads to ineffective or detrimental policies which aggravate the issues they were implemented to correct or cause other issues to arise. Another problem Forrester notes is that some policies which may work in the long run may aggravate an issue in the short run. A successful policy according to Forrester must target the correct leverage points, in this case the aspect of the social problem which, if modified, will produce a sizeable enough effect to correct the problem.\n\nOne significant problem with studying social systems is the difficulty of forming and testing theories; social systems are not easily manipulated or controlled and large-scale systems cannot be reproduced in a lab setting. However, the rapid increase in the availability of digital data over the last decade gives scientists studying the behaviors of social systems very detailed and much more holistic pictures of how social systems respond to various events and how networked social systems behave. Additionally, the development and popularity of social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter offer new ways to study the evolution of social systems and social networking behaviors with social graphs. Even though the behaviors of these systems may be surprising or not yet well understood, the digital age offers a new frontier for the study of social systems.\n\nNotable past models are the WORLD2 and WORLD3 models: these both aimed to outline the world's distribution of resources. WORLD3 was based on the Club of Rome's \"Limits to Growth.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "413340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413340", "title": "Sporophyte", "text": "Sporophyte\n\nA sporophyte () is the diploid multicellular stage in the life cycle of a plant or alga. It develops from the zygote produced when a haploid egg cell is fertilized by a haploid sperm and each sporophyte cell therefore has a double set of chromosomes, one set from each parent. All land plants, and most multicellular algae, have life cycles in which a multicellular diploid sporophyte phase alternates with a multicellular haploid gametophyte phase. In the seed plants, (\"gymnosperms\") and flowering plants (\"angiosperms\"), the sporophyte phase is more prominent than the gametophyte, and is the familiar green plant with its roots, stem, leaves and cones or flowers. In flowering plants the gametophytes are very reduced in size, and are represented by the germinated pollen and the embryo sac.\n\nThe sporophyte produces spores (hence the name) by meiosis, a process also known as \"reduction division\" that reduces the number of chromosomes in each spore mother cell by half. The resulting meiospores develop into a gametophyte. Both the spores and the resulting gametophyte are haploid, meaning they only have one set of chromosomes. The mature gametophyte produces male or female gametes (or both) by mitosis. The fusion of male and female gametes produces a diploid zygote which develops into a new sporophyte. This cycle is known as alternation of generations or alternation of phases.\n\nBryophytes (mosses, liverworts and hornworts) have a dominant gametophyte phase on which the adult sporophyte is dependent for nutrition. The embryo sporophyte develops by cell division of the zygote within the female sex organ or archegonium, and in its early development is therefore nurtured by the gametophyte.\nBecause this embryo-nurturing feature of the life cycle is common to all land plants they are known collectively as the embryophytes.\nMost algae have dominant gametophyte generations, but in some species the gametophytes and sporophytes are morphologically similar (isomorphic). An independent sporophyte is the dominant form in all clubmosses, horsetails, ferns, gymnosperms, and angiosperms that have survived to the present day. Early land plants had sporophytes that produced identical spores (isosporous or homosporous) but the ancestors of the gymnosperms evolved complex heterosporous life cycles in which the spores producing male and female gametophytes were of different sizes, the female megaspores tending to be larger, and fewer in number, than the male microspores.\n\nDuring the Devonian period several plant groups independently evolved heterospory and subsequently the habit of endospory, in which the gametophytes develop in miniaturized form inside the spore wall. By contrast in exosporous plants, including modern ferns, the gametophytes break the spore wall open on germination and develop outside it. The megagametophytes of endosporic plants such as the seed ferns developed within the sporangia of the parent sporophyte, producing a miniature multicellular female gametophyte complete with female sex organs, or archegonia. The oocytes were fertilized in the archegonia by free-swimming flagellate sperm produced by windborne miniaturized male gametophytes in the form of pre-pollen. The resulting zygote developed into the next sporophyte generation while still retained within the pre-ovule, the single large female meiospore or megaspore contained in the modified sporangium or nucellus of the parent sporophyte. The evolution of heterospory and endospory were among the earliest steps in the evolution of seeds of the kind produced by gymnosperms and angiosperms today.\n\n"}
{"id": "56151905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56151905", "title": "State transition algorithm", "text": "State transition algorithm\n\nIn global optimization, a state transition algorithm (STA) is an iterative method that generates a sequence of improving approximate solutions for an optimization problem. Due to its intrinsic properties, an STA has the ability to find a global optimal solution in probability and can guarantee an optimal solution.\n\nThe state transition algorithm was first proposed by Zhou et al. It is a stochastic global optimization method and aims to find a possible global or approximate optimal solution in a reasonable amount of time. In the context of the STA, a solution to an optimization problem is regarded as a state, and updating a solution can be regarded as a state transition. Using the state-space representation, it describes solutions updating in a unified framework, and the execution operators to update solutions are expressed as state transition matrices, which make it easy to understand and flexible to implement:\nwhere:\nAs a stochastic global optimization method, STA has the following properties:\n\nIn continuous STA, formula_10 is a continuous variable, and four special state transformation operators are designed to generate new candidate solutions.\n\nwhere formula_12 is a positive constant, called the rotation factor, formula_13 is a random matrix with its entries being uniformly distributed random variables defined on the interval [-1,1], and formula_14 is the 2-norm of a vector. \nThe rotation transformation has the functionality to search in a hypersphere with maximal radius formula_12 , that is to say, formula_16.\n\nwhere formula_18 is a positive constant, called the translation factor, and formula_19\nis a uniformly distributed random variable defined on the interval [0,1]. The translation transformation has the functionality to search along a line from formula_20 to formula_3 at the starting point formula_3 with maximal length formula_18.\n\nwhere formula_25 is a positive constant, called the expansion factor, and formula_26 is a random diagonal matrix with its entries obeying the Gaussian distribution. The expansion transformation has the functionality to expand the entries in formula_3 to the range of formula_28, searching in the whole space.\n\nwhere formula_30 is a positive constant, called the axesion factor, and formula_31 is a random diagonal matrix with its entries obeying the Gaussian distribution and with only one random position having nonzero value. The axesion transformation aims to search along the axes.\n\nFor a given solution formula_3, a candidate solution formula_33 is generated by using one time of the aforementioned state transformation operators. Since the state transition matrix in each state transformation is random, the generated candidate solution is not unique. Based on a given point, it is not difficult to imagine that a regular neighbourhood will be automatically formed when using certain state transformation operators.\n\nSince the entries in state transition matrix obey certain stochastic distribution, for any given solution, the new candidate becomes a random vector and its corresponding solution (the value of a random vector) can be regarded as a sample. Considering that any two random state transition matrices in each state transformation operator are independent,\nseveral times of state transformation (called the degree of search enforcement, formula_34 for short) based on the given solution are performed for certain state transformation operator, yielding formula_34 samples.\n\nAs mentioned above, based on the incumbent best solution, a total number of \"SE\" candidate solutions are sampled. A new best solution is selected from the candidate set by virtue of the evaluation function, denoted as formula_36. \nThen, an update strategy based on greedy criterion is used to update the incumbent best solution:\n\nWith the state transformation operators, sampling technique and update strategy, the basic continuous STA can be described as follows:\n\nStep 1: Initiate a random solution formula_40 and set formula_41 formula_42\n\nStep 2: Generate formula_34 samples based on incumbent formula_40 using Expansion Transformation, and then update the incumbent formula_40 using greedy criterion incorporating formula_34 samples and incumbent formula_40 . Let us denote formula_36 the best solution in formula_34 samples, if formula_50, then perform the Translation Transformation similarly to update the incumbent formula_40;\n\nStep 3: Generate formula_34 samples based on incumbent formula_40 using Rotation Transformation, and then update the incumbent formula_40 using greedy criterion incorporating formula_34 samples and incumbent formula_40 . If formula_50, then perform the Translation Transformation similarly to update the incumbent formula_40;\n\nStep 4: Generate formula_34 samples based on incumbent formula_40 using Axesion Transformation, and then update the incumbent formula_40 using greedy criterion incorporating formula_34 samples and incumbent formula_40 . If formula_50, then perform the Translation Transformation similarly to update the incumbent formula_40;\n\nStep 5: set formula_66, if formula_67, set formula_68, else set formula_69, and return to Step 2 until the maximum of iterations is met.\n\n\nSTA has found a variety of applications, like image segmentation, \ntask assignment, energy consumption in the alumina evaporation process, resolution of overlapping linear\nsweep voltammetric peaks, PID controller design, volterra series identification, and system modeling, and it is shown that STA is comparable to most existing global optimization methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "31675407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31675407", "title": "Testament and Death of Moses", "text": "Testament and Death of Moses\n\nThe Testament and Death of Moses is a fresco attributed to the Italian Renaissance painters Luca Signorelli and Bartolomeo della Gatta, executed in around 1482 and located in the Sistine Chapel, Rome.\n\nOn 27 October 1480 a group of Florentine painters left for Rome, where he had been called as part of the reconciliation project between Lorenzo de' Medici, the \"de facto\" ruler of Florence, and Pope Sixtus IV. The Florentines started to work in the Sistine Chapel as early as the Spring of 1481, along with Pietro Perugino, who was already there. Neither Bartolomeo della Gatta nor Luca Signorelli (who was thirty at the time) appear in the official contracts signed between the Papal court and the painters, but they were most likely among the assistants of Perugino, who was the general superintendent of the works. Signorelli is mentioned in the Sistine Chapel after his master left in 1482, as the author of the \"Disputation over Moses' Body\" on the entrance wall (repainted by Matteo da Lecce in 1574 due to its poor state).\n\nIt has been supposed that Perugino provided at least the layout of the fresco, while its realization, basing on a comment by Giorgio Vasari, had been assigned traditionally to Signorelli. Studies by art historians such as Mario Salmi, reduced Signorelli's presence in the work, and attributed most of the painting to Bartolomeo della Gatta, a painter influenced by the purity of Piero della Francesca and the early Perugino.\n\nThe theme of the decoration was a parallel between the Stories of Moses and those of Christ, as a sign of continuity between the Old and the New Testament. A continuity also between the divine law of the Tables and the message of Jesus, who, in turn, chose Peter (the first alleged bishop of Rome) as his successor: this would finally result in a legitimation of the latter's successors, the popes of Rome.\n\nThe fresco portrays the last episode in Moses' life, in two sectors: a foreground one including two scenes, and a background one, with three further scenes and, on the right, a landscape. Moses is always recognizable through his yellow garments and the green cloak, as in the rest of the cycle. The artist made an extensive use of gold painting.\n\nOn the background Moses, on the Mount Nebo, receives by an angel the command baton, which gives him the authority to lead the Israelites towards the Promised Land. Below, Moses descends from the mountain with the baton in his hand, similarly to Cosimo Rosselli's \"Descent from Mount Sinai\" nearby. In the foreground, on the right, is a 120-year-old Moses speaking at the crowd while holding the baton and a Holy Book: rays of light stem from his head. At his feet is the Ark of the Covenant, opened to show the Twelve Tables and the vase of the Manna. In the center, the procession includes a woman holding a child on her shoulders, wearing silk, an elegant youth portrayed from behind and a naked man sitting. The latter two characters are attributed to Luca Signorelli, as well as the man with a stick next the throne of Moses.\n\nOn the left is the appointment of Joshua as Moses' successor; the former kneels to receive the command baton, while the prophet has his cloak opened, showing a red-lined interior. Finally, on the left background, is the corpse of Moses on a shroud, surrounded by the dismayed Israelites.\n\n"}
{"id": "55263547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55263547", "title": "Thangthong Kiattaweesuk", "text": "Thangthong Kiattaweesuk\n\nThangthong Klongjan (; formerly: Tongdaeng Klongjan (ทองแดง คลองจันทร์); August 13, 1978 – May 26, 2012), who boxes as Thangthong Kiettaweesuk (แท่งทอง เกียรติทวีสุข) is a former Thai professional boxer and amateur boxer who fought in Bantamweight and Super bantamweight division.\n\nThangthong (nicknamed: Daeng; แดง) was born on August 13, 1978 at a remote village in Tambon Nong Bon, Amphoe Bo Rai, Trat province. he started his boxing career as a Muay Thai kickboxer which he got a moderate success, occupying the Muay Thai 105lb title of famous Lumpinee Boxing Stadium during 1999–2001. Then, he turned to amateur boxing, being a member of the Thailand national team and winning a bronze medal Bantamweight in the 2005 SEA Games at Manila, Philippines.\n\nLater in 2007 he turned to professional boxing and won the IBF Pan Pacific Bantamweight title in his seventh fight by defeating North Korean boxer, I-hon Kim on November 23, 2007 at Bangkok Bus Terminal (Morchit), Chatuchak District, Bangkok and defended all 10 times.\n\nIn 2010 he won the vacant WBC International Bantamweight by points over Kenyan boxer, Nick Otieno at Ratchaburi province and he defended his IBF title 15 time by defeating the points over Richard Samosir an Indonesian challenger on May 20, 2011 at Rayong province.\n\nOn May 18, 2012 he won the IBF Junior featherweight interim title over Macbute Sinyabi South Africans by KO in the 10th round at Nakhon Ratchasima province in the elimination fight for winner to challenge with the winner of the IBF-WBO unification fight between Nonito Donaire and Jeffrey Mathebula in order of IBF.\n\nBut after only eight days on May 26, 2012 he was tragically killed in a car accident with his family, including Theeraporn Klongjan his wife and twin nephews at Sukhumvit Road, Chanthaburi province which also ended his record to 24-0 (17KOs).\n\n\"Regional/International Titles:\"\n"}
{"id": "176545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176545", "title": "The Seventh Seal", "text": "The Seventh Seal\n\nThe Seventh Seal () is a 1957 Swedish historical fantasy film written and directed by Ingmar Bergman. Set in Denmark during the Black Death, it tells of the journey of a medieval knight (Max von Sydow) and a game of chess he plays with the personification of Death (Bengt Ekerot), who has come to take his life. Bergman developed the film from his own play \"Wood Painting\". The title refers to a passage from the Book of Revelation, used both at the very start of the film, and again towards the end, beginning with the words \"And when the Lamb had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour\". Here the motif of silence refers to the \"silence of God,\" which is a major theme of the film.\n\n\"The Seventh Seal\" is considered a classic of world cinema, as well as one of the greatest movies of all time. It established Bergman as a world-renowned director, containing scenes which have become iconic through homages, critical analysis, and parodies.\n\nDisillusioned knight Antonius Block (Max von Sydow) and his nihilistic squire Jöns (Gunnar Björnstrand) return after fighting in the Crusades and find Denmark being ravaged by the plague. On the beach immediately after their arrival, the knight encounters Death (Bengt Ekerot), personified as a pale, black-cowled figure resembling a monk. The knight, in the middle of a chess game he has been playing alone, challenges Death to a chess match, believing that he can forestall his demise as long as the game continues. Death agrees, and they start a new game.\n\nThe other characters in the story, except for Jof in the end, do not see Death, and when the chess board comes out at various times in the story, they believe the knight is continuing his habit of playing alone.\nThe knight with his squire heads for his castle. Along the way, they pass some actors, Jof (Nils Poppe) and his wife Mia (Bibi Andersson), with their infant son Mikael and their actor-manager Jonas Skat (Erik Strandmark). Jof is also a juggler and has visions of Jesus and Mary, although Mia is skeptical of them (especially since Jof is also given to lying).\n\nBlock and Jöns enter a church where a fresco of the \"Dance of Death\" is being painted. The squire draws a small figure representing himself, while chiding the artist for colluding in the religious and ideological fervour which has led to the disastrous crusade. Still hoping for resolution and comfort within his faith, the knight goes to the confessional where he is joined by Death in the robe of a priest. During confession, Block admits that his life has been futile and without meaning, but that he wants to perform \"one meaningful deed\". Upon revealing the chess strategy that will save his life, the knight discovers that the priest is Death, who promises to remember the tactics. Leaving the church, the knight speaks to a young woman (Maud Hansson) who has been condemned to be burned at the stake for consorting with the devil. He believes she will tell him about life beyond death, only to discover a woman beyond her sanity.\n\nShortly thereafter, Jöns searches an abandoned village for water. He saves a mute servant girl (Gunnel Lindblom) from being raped by a man robbing a corpse. He recognizes the man as Raval (Bertil Anderberg), a theologian, who ten years prior had convinced the knight to leave his wife and join a crusade to the Holy Land. The squire promises to brand the theologian on the face if they meet again. The servant girl joins the squire. The trio ride into town, where the actors met earlier are performing. Skat the actor-manager introduces the other actors to the crowd, then is enticed by Lisa (Inga Gill)—wife of the sentimental and violent blacksmith Plog—away for a tryst. They run off together. The actors' performance is interrupted by the arrival of a procession of flagellants.\n\nAt the town's public house, Plog—jealous and wounded—is looking for Lisa. Both Jof and the manipulative Raval are also present: for the sake of mischief, Raval tells Plog that Jof knows what Lisa is doing. Raval manipulates Plog and the other customers into intimidating Jof, and forces Jof to dance on the tables like a bear. The bullying is broken up by the appearance of Jöns, who once again recognises Raval: true to his word, he slashes and permanently scars the theologian's face. Both knight and squire are reacquainted with Jof's family, with a repentant Plog also joining them. The knight enjoys a country picnic of milk and wild strawberries gathered by Mia. The knight says: \"I'll carry this memory between my hands as if it were a bowl filled to the brim with fresh milk...And it will be an adequate sign—it will be enough for me.\"\n\nMoved by the simple love of Jof and Mia, Block relaxes his pursuit of religious meaning. He invites Plog and the actors to shelter in his castle, where he believes they will be safer from the plague. Along the way, the party encounters Skat and Lisa in the forest. Dissatisfied with her new lover (and well aware that her husband will quickly forgive her), Lisa abandons Skat and returns to Plog, while Skat uses his acting skills—and possibly Jof's collusion—to fake a remorseful suicide. Once the group has moved on, Skat climbs a tree for the night. Appearing and informing the actor that his time is up, Death then cuts down the tree and kills him.\n\nThe travellers pass the condemned young woman again, now tied to a stake and awaiting burning. Block asks the woman again to summon Satan, so he can ask him about God. The girl claims already to have done so, but the knight cannot see him, only her terror. As her execution fire is lit, the knight gives her herbs to take away her pain. Jöns and Block watch, grimly, as her sentence is carried out.\n\nFurther along in the journey, Raval reappears: dying of the plague, he pleads for water. The servant girl attempts to bring him some, but Jöns stops her, and Raval dies alone and uncomforted. Jof tells his wife that he can see the knight playing chess with Death, and decides to flee with his family while Death is preoccupied.\nAfter hearing Death state \"No one escapes me\", Block knocks the chess pieces over, deliberately distracting Death while Jof's family slips away. Death places the pieces back on the board, then wins the game on the next move. He announces that when they meet again, the knight's time—and that of all those traveling with him—will be up. Before departing, Death asks if the knight has accomplished his one \"meaningful deed\" yet; Block replies that he has.\n\nBlock is reunited with his wife, Karin (Inga Landgré), the sole occupant of his castle (all the servants having fled). The party shares one \"last supper\" before Death comes for them. The knight prays to God, \"Have mercy on us, because we are small and frightened and ignorant.\" The mute servant girl speaks her only line: \"It is finished.\"\n\nMeanwhile, away from the castle, Jof's family sits out a storm which the juggler interprets to be \"the \"Angel of Death\"... and he's very big\". The next morning, the juggler, with his second sight, sees the knight and his followers being led away over the hills in a solemn \"Dance of Death\".\n\nBergman originally wrote the play \"Trämålning\" (\"Wood Painting\") in 1953 / 1954 for the acting students of Malmö City Theatre. The first time it was performed in public was in radio in 1954, directed by Bergman. He also directed it on stage in Malmö the next spring, and in the autumn it was staged in Stockholm, directed by Bengt Ekerot who would later play the character Death in the film version.\n\nIn his autobiography, \"The Magic Lantern\", Bergman wrote that \"\"Wood Painting\" gradually became \"The Seventh Seal\", an uneven film which lies close to my heart, because it was made under difficult circumstances in a surge of vitality and delight.\" The script for the \"Seventh Seal\" was commenced while Bergman was in the Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm recovering from a stomach complaint. It was at first rejected and Bergman was given the go-ahead for the project from Carl-Anders Dymling at Svensk Filmindustri only after the success at Cannes of \"Smiles of a Summer Night\" Bergman rewrote the script five times and was given a schedule of only thirty-five days and a budget of $150,000. It was to be the seventeenth film he had directed.\n\nAll scenes except two were shot in or around the Filmstaden studios in Solna. The exceptions were the famous opening scene with Death and the Knight playing chess by the sea and the ending with the dance of death, which were both shot at Hovs Hallar, a rocky, precipitous beach area in north-western Scania.\n\nIn the \"Magic Lantern\" autobiography Bergman writes of the film's iconic penultimate shot: \"The image of the Dance of Death beneath the dark cloud was achieved at hectic speed because most of the actors had finished for the day. Assistants, electricians, and a make-up man and about two summer visitors, who never knew what it was all about, had to dress up in the costumes of those condemned to death. A camera with no sound was set up and the picture shot before the cloud dissolved.\"\n\nWith regard to the relevancy of historical accuracy to a film that is heavily metaphorical and allegorical, John Aberth, writing in \"A Knight at the Movies\", holds\n\nthe film only partially succeeds in conveying the period atmosphere and thought world of the fourteenth century. Bergman would probably counter that it was never his intention to make an historical or period film. As it was written in a program note that accompanied the movie's premier \"It is a modern poem presented with medieval material that has been very freely handled...The script in particular—embodies a mid-twentieth century existentialist angst...Still, to be fair to Bergman, one must allow him his artistic license, and the script's modernisms may be justified as giving the movie's medieval theme a compelling and urgent contemporary relevance...Yet the film succeeds to a large degree because it is set in the Middle Ages, a time that can seem both very remote and very immediate to us living in the modern world...Ultimately \"The Seventh Seal\" should be judged as a historical film by how well it combines the medieval and the modern.\"\nSimilarly defending it as an allegory, Aleksander Kwiatkowski in the book \"Swedish Film Classics\", writes\n\nThe international response to the film which among other awards won the jury's special prize at Cannes in 1957 reconfirmed the author's high rank and proved that \"The Seventh Seal\" regardless of its degree of accuracy in reproducing medieval scenery may be considered as a universal, timeless allegory.\nMuch of the film's imagery is derived from medieval art. For example, Bergman has stated that the image of a man playing chess with a skeletal Death was inspired by a medieval church painting from the 1480s in Täby kyrka, Täby, north of Stockholm, painted by Albertus Pictor.\n\nHowever, the medieval Sweden portrayed in this movie includes creative anachronisms. The flagellant movement was foreign to Sweden, and large-scale witch persecutions only began in the 15th century.\n\nGenerally speaking, historians Johan Huizinga, Friedrich Heer and Barbara Tuchman have all argued that the late Middle Ages of the 14th century was a period of \"doom and gloom\" similar to what is reflected in this film, characterized by a feeling of pessimism, an increase in a penitential style of piety that was slightly masochistic, all aggravated by various disasters such as the Black Plague, famine, the Hundred Years' War between France and England, and papal schism. This is sometimes called the crisis of the Late Middle Ages and Barbara Tuchman regards the 14th century as \"a distant mirror\" of the 20th century in a way that echoes Bergman's sensibilities. Nonetheless, the main period of the Crusades is well before this era; they took place in a more optimistic period.\n\nThe title refers to a passage about the end of the world from the Book of Revelation, used both at the very start of the film, and again towards the end, beginning with the words \"And when the Lamb had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour\" (Revelation 8:1). Thus, in the confessional scene the knight states: \"Is it so cruelly inconceivable to grasp God with the senses? Why should He hide himself in a mist of half-spoken promises and unseen miracles?...What is going to happen to those of us who want to believe but aren't able to?\" Death, impersonating the confessional priest, refuses to reply. Similarly, later, as he eats the strawberries with the family of actors, Antonius Block says: \"Faith is a torment – did you know that? It is like loving someone who is out there in the darkness but never appears, no matter how loudly you call.\" Bragg notes that the concept of the \"Silence of God\" in the face of evil, or the pleas of believers or would-be-believers, may be influenced by the punishments of silence meted out by Bergman's father, a chaplain in the State Lutheran Church. In Bergman's original radio play sometimes translated as \"A Painting on Wood\", the figure of Death in a Dance of Death is represented not by an actor, but by silence, \"mere nothingness, mere absence...terrifying...the void.\"\n\nSome of the powerful influences on the film were Picasso's picture of the two acrobats, Carl Orff's \"Carmina Burana\", Strindberg's dramas \"Folkungasagan\" (\"The Saga of the Folkung Kings\") and \"The Road to Damascus\", the frescoes at Härkeberga church and a painting by Albertus Pictor in Täby church. Just prior to shooting Bergman directed for radio the play \"Everyman\" by Hugo von Hofmannsthal. By this time he had also directed plays by Shakespeare, Strindberg, Camus, Chesterton, Anouilh, Tennessee Williams, Pirandello, Lehár, Molière and Ostrovsky. The actors Bibi Andersson (with whom Bergman was in a relationship 1955–59) who played the juggler's wife Mia, and Max von Sydow, whose role as the knight was the first of many star parts he would bring to Bergman's films and whose rugged Nordic dignity became a vital resource within Bergman's \"troupe\" of key actors, both made a strong impact on the mood and style of the film.\n\nBergman grew up in a home infused with an intense Christianity, his father being a charismatic rector (this may have explained Bergman's adolescent infatuation with Hitler, which later deeply tormented him). As a six-year-old child, Bergman used to help the gardener carry corpses from the Royal Hospital Sophiahemmet (where his father was chaplain) to the mortuary. When, as a boy, he saw the film \"Black Beauty\", the fire scene excited him so much he stayed in bed for three days with a temperature. Despite living a Bohemian lifestyle in partial rebellion against his upbringing, Bergman often signed his scripts with the initials \"S.D.G\" (\"Soli Deo Gloria\") — \"To God Alone the Glory\" — just as J. S. Bach did at the end of every musical composition.\n\nGerald Mast writes,\n\"Like the gravedigger in \"Hamlet\", the Squire [...] treats death as a bitter and hopeless joke. Since we all play chess with death, and since we all must suffer through that hopeless joke, the only question about the game is how long it will last and how well we will play it. To play it well, to live, is to love and not to hate the body and the mortal as the Church urges in Bergman's metaphor.\"\n\nMelvyn Bragg writes,\n\"[I]t is constructed like an argument. It is a story told as a sermon might be delivered: an allegory...each scene is at once so simple and so charged and layered that it catches us again and again...Somehow all of Bergman's own past, that of his father, that of his reading and doing and seeing, that of his Swedish culture, of his political burning and religious melancholy, poured into a series of pictures which carry that swell of contributions and contradictions so effortlessly that you could tell the story to a child, publish it as a storybook of photographs and yet know that the deepest questions of religion and the most mysterious revelation of simply being alive are both addressed.\"\n\nThe Jesuit publication \"America\" identifies it as having begun \"a series of seven films that explored the possibility of faith in a post-Holocaust, nuclear age\". Likewise, film historians Thomas W. Bohn and Richard L. Stromgren identify this film as beginning \"his cycle of films dealing with the conundrum of religious faith\".\n\nUpon its original Swedish release, \"The Seventh Seal\" was met with a somewhat divided critical response; its cinematography was widely praised, while \"Bergman the scriptwriter [was] lambasted.\" Swedish journalist and critic Nils Beyer, writing for \"Morgon-tidningen\", compared it to Carl Theodor Dreyer's \"The Passion of Joan of Arc\" and \"Day of Wrath\". While finding Dreyer's films to be superior, he still noted that \"it isn't just any director that you feel like comparing to the old Danish master.\" He also praised the usage of the cast, in particular Max von Sydow whose character he described as \"a pale, serious Don Quixote character with a face as if sculpted in wood\", and \"Bibi Andersson, who appears as if painted in faded watercolours but still can emit small delicious glimpses of female warmth.\" Hanserik Hjertén for \"Arbetaren\" started his review by praising the cinematography but soon went on to describe the film as \"a horror film for children\" and said that beyond the superficial, it is mostly reminiscent of Bergman's \"sophomoric films from the 40s.\"\n\nBergman's international reputation, on the other hand, was largely cemented by \"The Seventh Seal\". Bosley Crowther had only positive things to say in his 1958 review for \"The New York Times\", and praised how the themes were elevated by the cinematography and acting: \"the profundities of the ideas are lightened and made flexible by glowing pictorial presentation of action that is interesting and strong. Mr. Bergman uses his camera and actors for sharp, realistic effects.\"\n\nThe film is now regarded as a masterpiece of cinema. \"Empire\" magazine ranked it the eighth-greatest film of world cinema in 2010. In a poll held by the same magazine, it was voted 335th 'Greatest Movie of All Time' from a list of 500. In addition, on the 100th anniversary of cinema in 1995, the Vatican included \"The Seventh Seal\" in its list of its 45 \"great films\" for its thematic values.\n\nThe film was selected as the Swedish entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 30th Academy Awards, but was not nominated.\n\nOn the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 93% based on 54 reviews, with an average rating of 9.1/10. The website's critical consensus reads: \"Narratively bold and visually striking, \"The Seventh Seal\" brought Ingmar Bergman to the world stage — and remains every bit as compelling today\".\n\n\"The Seventh Seal\" significantly helped Bergman in gaining his position as a world-class director. When the film won the Special Jury Prize at the 1957 Cannes Film Festival, the attention generated by it (along with the previous year's \"Smiles of a Summer Night\") made Bergman and his stars Max von Sydow and Bibi Andersson well-known to the European film community, and the critics and readers of \"Cahiers du Cinéma\", among others, discovered him with this movie. Within five years of this, he had established himself as the first real auteur of Swedish cinema. With its images and reflections upon death and the meaning of life, \"The Seventh Seal\" had a symbolism that was \"immediately apprehensible to people trained in literary culture who were just beginning to discover the 'art' of film, and it quickly became a staple of high school and college literature courses... Unlike Hollywood 'movies,' \"The Seventh Seal\" clearly was aware of elite artistic culture and thus was readily appreciated by intellectual audiences.\"\n\nThe representation of Death as a white-faced man who wears a dark cape and plays chess with mortals has been a popular object of parody in other films and television.\n\nSeveral films and comedy sketches portray Death as playing games other than or in addition to chess. In the final scene of the 1968 film \"De Düva\" (mock Swedish for \"The Dove\"), a 15-minute pastiche of Bergman's work generally and his \"Wild Strawberries\" in particular, the protagonist plays badminton against Death and wins when the droppings of a passing dove strike Death in the eye. Death's costume is also soiled, to his annoyance as he said it was just dry cleaned. The photography imitates throughout the style of Bergman's cinematographers Sven Nykqvist and Gunnar Fischer.\n\nThe protagonists of the 1991 science-fiction comedy \"Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey\" return to life by defeating Death (played by William Sadler) at \"Battleship\", \"Clue\", electric football, and \"Twister\". After each of the first three games, Death insists that the competition be extended to a \"best-of-three,\" \"-five,\" and then \"-seven\" series, but after being beaten in four games he concedes defeat.\n\nIn \"Last Action Hero\", Death (played by Ian McKellen) emerges from the film of the same name (\"The Seventh Seal\").\n\nIn \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\" the flagellant scene is depicted by monks smacking themselves in the head while reciting lines from the Dies Irae. In \"Monty Python's Meaning of Life\" Death appears at a dinner party in much the same guise. A few minutes later, in a parody of the \"Dance of Death\", we see the partygoers following Death through space.\n\nIn the animated feature \"Animalympics\", the film is alluded to as the newest cinematic project of actor and sports commentator Bjorn Freeborg, with one \"Ingmar Birdman\" (a nominal parody of the film's director) directing. This sequence utilizes the reproduction of a screenshot of the famous chess-play scene, with Freeborg playing the role of Death.\n\nWoody Allen's one-act play entitled \"Death Knocks\", part of his anthology \"Getting Even\", depicts a man playing gin rummy against Death. Allen, an enormous fan of Ingmar Bergman, references Bergman's work in his serious dramas as well as his comedies; his \"Love and Death\", a broad parody of 19th-century Russian novels, closes with a \"Dance of Death\" scene imitating Bergman's.\n\nThe film is also seen in the Håkan Bråkan, the 2003 SVT Christmas calendar series, based on works by Anders Jacobsson and Sören Olssons, where Håkan watches the movie — even an animated version appears.\n\nThe song \"The Seventh Seal\" on Scott Walker's 1969 album \"Scott 4\" is based on the film.\n\nThe film is referred to in Bruce Cockburn's song \"How I Spent My Fall Vacation\", from his 1979 album Humans. The song's narrative is bracketed by two young men watching the film in a cinema. \n\nOn \"Dance of Death\" (2003), the thirteenth studio album by British heavy metal band Iron Maiden, the album's title track was inspired by the final scene of \"The Seventh Seal\", at the end of which, according to guitarist Janick Gers, \"these figures on the horizon start doing a little jig, which is the dance of death.\".\n\nIn 2016 composer João MacDowell premiered in New York City at Scandinavia House the music for the first act of \"The Seventh Seal\" a work in progress under contract with the Ingmar Bergman Foundation, sung in Swedish. The work is under production by the International Brazilian Opera (IBOC) as part of the celebrations for the Ingmar Bergman centenary in 2018.\n\nThe posters for the opera with photography by Athena Azevedo and design by Toshiaki Ide and Hisa Ide, featuring dancer Eliana Carneiro, in a collaboration work by the International Brazilian Opera (IBOC) and IF Studio LLC, have won multiple prizes in the Graphis Inc. International Competition, including double Platinum in the Poster and Design categories.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "140254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140254", "title": "Tyranids", "text": "Tyranids\n\nIn the fictional universe of \"Warhammer 40,000\", the Tyranids are a race and a playable army in the tabletop miniatures wargame.\n\nThe Tyranids are aliens from outside the galaxy who have come to devour all life, one planet at a time. They are collectively controlled by a highly intelligent hive mind which can not be reasoned with. Tyranids come in diverse forms, each individual having been engineered to fulfill a specific role. All of their technology is biological, named in the Universe as biomorphs due to their components being alive.\n\nTyranids are a playable army in the science-fiction-oriented miniature wargame known as \"Warhammer 40,000\".\n\nTyranid infantry units tend to be fast, hard-hitting, but frail. They are also cheap, meaning Tyranid armies in play tend to be large.\n\nTyranids have the most powerful counter-measures against enemies with psychic powers. Many Tyranid units possess the \"Shadow in the Warp\" trait, which makes it harder for nearby enemy psykers to use their powers.\n\nTyranids were first described in Rick Priestley's \"Rogue Trader\", the first edition of the \"Warhammer 40,000\". At that time they were not an emphasized race in the game, instead representing a limited number of occasionally encountered alien antagonists. Their physical appearance was not imposing or especially horrific: they were depicted as six limbed, relatively diminutive creatures (an appearance which would later be assigned to Tyranid termagants). In later iterations of Warhammer 40,000-related products (starting with the release of Advanced Space Crusade) the Tyranids were given a complete makeover and became a major race, popularized by a number of successful expansions. \n\nTyranids often form a fast-moving close-combat army that relies on overwhelming its enemies through waves and waves of mostly small but deadly creatures, while larger creatures provide a source of powerful attacks. They may also rely heavily on ranged combat, if different selections are made, or field an impressive but small array of monstrous titans rather than a typical swarm. Tyranid armies are therefore able to bring a varied threat to bear on their opponents.\n\nGames Workshop has introduced three main hive fleets, called Behemoth, Kraken, and Leviathan. The most recent Codex has also introduced a number of smaller hive fleets and splinter fleets, such as Hydra and Gorgon, among a number of others, although the book primarily focuses on the three main fleets. It is noted that these names are given by the scholars of the Imperium, rather than the Tyranids themselves. In fact, there is no evidence in the fiction that Tyranids have language or civilization, at least not as understood by other species native to the Milky Way. In many stories, they communicate with a complex array of insectoid clicking and buzzing noises, as well as reptilian war cries, growls, and hissing sounds. Tyranids are thought to communicate primarily via a strong synaptic link to the so-called Hive Mind.\n\nThere have been three major Tyranid hive fleets to date; Hive Fleet Behemoth and Hive Fleet Kraken of whom both were defeated, and Hive Fleet Leviathan, which is one of the current threats to the known galaxy. There are many other Tyranid hive fleets that have been destroyed or are still emerging, such as Hive Fleets Jormungand, Colossus, Tiamet, Scarabus, Ouroboros, Nemesis, Reatherus, Gorgon and Hydra among many others.\n\nTyranids were first mentioned in the 1987 rulebook \"\" under the heading \"Tyranids and the Hive Fleets\", and were illustrated in a form not too different from that of Gaunts.\n\nThe first Tyranids used conventional, non-biological equipment such as lasguns and flak armor (although the rulebook stated that these represented organic equipment with similar capabilities). The principal unit available to the Tyranids was the Zoat, a centaur-like creature enslaved to fight on the behalf of their Tyranid masters.\n\nGames Workshop introduced the first Genestealer figures in 1989 in the game Space Hulk. The first recognizable incarnation of Tyranid warriors appeared in Advanced Space Crusade in 1990, featuring biological weaponry such as boneswords and deathspitters.\n\nSecond Edition \"Warhammer 40,000\", released in 1993, featured the Tyranids in the supplemental books \"Wargear\" and \"Codex Imperialis\", and then later in their own devoted army \"Codex\". An extensive model range was released, representing most of the units described in these publications. The army was, however, very different from the factions previously seen in the game.\n\nThe Tyranid player now had access to a range of unit types roughly equivalent to that of the other factions, including the \"Hive Tyrant\", \"Termagants\", \"Hormagaunts\", the main adversary in Space Hulk \"Genestealers\", \"Gargoyles\" previously seen in \"Epic 40,000\", \"Tyranid Warriors\", the \"Carnifex\", \"Zoanthropes\" (a Tyranid psyker in addition to the Hive Tyrant), \"Lictors\", and the \"Biovore\".\n\nIn the Tyranid supplement to Third Edition \"Warhammer 40,000\" there was an emphasis on revamping the rules for the various units while maintaining the overall structure of the army, so that veteran players would not find their older collections unusable or less useful in the new edition. The supplement did however add some new units and adjust the behavior of others. A brand-new model range, somewhat different from the older one, was released to coincide with the new publication. New units included: the \"Tyrant Guard\" and \"Raveners\".\n\nThe Third Edition Codex, as with a number of subsequent publications, included an army list which permitted far greater flexibility to the player than previous army lists, allowing extensive customization of units. Unit types noted as a 'Mutable Genus' in the main army list were permitted to be extensively modified by choosing from numerous options in the 'Custom Hive Fleet' section of the book. The options available bore a resemblance to the random equipment tables featured in \"Rogue Trader\", but were no longer randomized.\n\nThe nature of the army list in Third Edition further cemented the Tyranid army's reputation for fielding vast numbers of models, allowing the player to overwhelm an opponent with weight of numbers. This was even more pronounced in the variant \"Seeding Swarm\" army list published in White Dwarf and later in Chapter Approved, which represented the initial stages of a massive Tyranid assault and even further emphasized the use of many expendable, 'cannon-fodder' type units.\n\nThe release of the fourth edition codex added a new model range, new rules, and new units, most notably the Broodlord, a larger alpha genestealer, and revamped units such as the Carnifex. This new codex also enables Tyranid players to field a total of eight large Tyranids to be deployed in a medium-sized battle, although the player would still have to field compulsory troop choices. With this concept Tyranid armies can now consist of many troops and/or a just few powerful units. One of the more overlooked abilities was the new \"without number\" rule, which allowed for an unlimited number of gaunts in a single game, emphasizing the \"cannon-fodder\" trait of the Tyranids.\n\nA new Tyranid codex was released on 16 January 2010, written by Robin Cruddance. It included 15 new species of Tyranid, and legendary heroes like the Swarmlord, Old One Eye and the Doom of Malan'tai. In addition, some models saw a point cost reduction, which allowed certain Tyranid armies to field more units, although this was not the case for all Tyranid units. The Carnifex, a mainstay of previous editions, saw its point cost almost double, with many of its options removed and with no corresponding increase in effectiveness.\n\nThe Tyranids received new rules for the eighth edition of Warhammer 40,000 in Index: Xenos 2, released in June 2017. An updated version of these rules will be released on 11 November 2017 in the new Codex: Tyranids.\n\nThe first recorded contact between the Imperium and the Tyranids was in 745.M41 on the Eastern Fringes of the Milky Way galaxy. There are rumors that the Ordo Xenos of the Inquisition had identified possible appearances of the Tyranids as far back as the 35th Millennium.\n\nThe Tyranids emerged from the intergalactic space of the Local Group of galaxies, their Hive Mind drawn to the Milky Way by the psychic beacon of the Astronomican transmitted by the Imperium of Man's Emperor. The first officially recorded contact with the Tyranids for the Imperium of Man came during an attack on the Forge World of Tyran by hive fleet Behemoth, and from there the fleet continued through the Ultramar sector of imperial space, consuming all the worlds in its path. The Tyranids were defeated, by the efforts of the Ultramarines Chapter of Space Marines and suffered devastating losses\nduring the Battle of Macragge \n\nIn 942.M41, Commissar Ciaphas Cain, on a mission in the Ice World, Nusquam , discovered hibernating Tyranids buried deep in the permafrost; the swarm was apparently carried to the planet by a Hive Ship that had crashed on the planet, prior to any human colonization. The Inquisition was unsettled by the fact that the Tyranids possibly developed a presence in the galaxy before the start of the Imperium; it is unknown whether the crashed bio-ship was on a scouting mission when it was lost, was a casualty in a pre-Imperium Tyranid invasion force that was defeated by unknown adversaries, or part of a plan by a Tyranid super-intelligence that may have \"seeded\" the galaxy with many slumbering broods.\n\nIn 993.M41, the Tyranids returned to the Milky Way with Hive Fleet Kraken, changing tactics from assaulting targets as a single massed Hive Fleet to instead splitting into smaller fleets, each enveloping star systems before reinforcements can arrive. The brunt of this new attack was borne by the Space Marine Chapters known as the Scythes of the Emperor and the Lamenters. Eventually the backbone of the Hive Fleet was broken by its defeats at the Battle of Ichar IV and at the Eldar Craftworld Iyanden. The cost to the Imperium was still great, Craftworld Iyanden lost more than half of its population, and many splinter fleets broke off from Kraken to later wreak havoc deep within Imperial space.\n\nIn 997.M41, Hive Fleet Leviathan appeared from \"below\" the plane of the galaxy (on the Z axis) and attacked from two points, cutting off large portions of the galaxy from reinforcements. It threatened the defenses of the Segmentum Solar and Terra, the capital of the Imperium of Man, but the Tyranids were distracted by being deflected into the star system of a powerful Ork empire. The Orks are managing to stem the main Tyranid Hive Fleet's advance.\n\nThe Tyranids were a major race in the fourth edition of Warhammer 40k, especially due to their presence in the Battle for Macragge boxed game, released in 2004. The set included six Genestealers, ten Termagants, and eight Spore Mines. The box set represented the Battle for Macragge, one of the most detailed battles for both the Tyranids and the Ultramarines Chapter of Space Marines.\n\nFamed for their close combat attacks, Tyranids were chosen to be the aliens who set about destroying the Ultramarines homeworld of Macragge. In the preceding months Hive Fleet Behemoth (The Hive Fleet responsible) had been scouring the Ultramar sector leaving dead and barren planets in their wake, so when they arrived at Macragge they found a planet ready for battle. As well as Macragge's Starnova defense stations, the planet's defenses were bolstered by fleets seeking revenge, wanting to protect their homeworlds and some because they could do nothing else with their helms manned by those loyal to Marneus Calgar, Chapter Master of the Ultramarines. When Behemoth arrived at Macragge it fought with all its might in space and on land to subdue and consume the Ultramarines. This led to a fateful stand on Cold Steel Ridge. The Hive Mind dispatched its deadliest servant to the front lines - the Swarmlord, an ancient Hive Tyrant whose consciousness had been reincarnated through countless battles. This beast had struck the final blow on many worlds against many foes, and as soon as it stepped onto the battlefield, the swarm's ferocity was paired with keen strategy. It rent and tore the chapter master and left him lying on the ground. In the end, only the battleship Dominus Astra detonating its warp drives in the heart of the Tyranid fleet succeeded in destroying the central Tyranid hive ship, the lynchpin of the aliens' psychic control, throwing the swarm into disarray and putting an end to the invasion. Even though the Tyranids failed in their attempt, among the innumerable lives taken and damage caused both in space and on the ground, they managed to wipe out all one hundred members of the Ultramarines' elite 1st Company during a desperate last stand to defend one of the planet's two polar orbital defense facilities, a feat never before accomplished, and never repeated since, by any other enemy of the Imperium.\n\nThe Tyranids are represented in three of the Specialist Games produced by Games Workshop: Battlefleet: Gothic, Epic, and Inquisitor.\n\nIn Battlefleet: Gothic, a game focusing on spaceship to spaceship fleet combat, they are represented by four models that represent the massive biologically constructed ships of the Tyranid Hivefleet. In Epic, the game of large scale combat using smaller miniatures, they are represented by a combination of Titans and standard Tyranid troops. In Inquisitor, the narrative skirmish game using \"Warhammer 40,000\" type characters, the Tyranids are represented by the Genestealer and Hybrid models under the generic roleplaying category of \"aliens.\" They are individual members of the Genestealer Cults who work towards espionage and propagating their species in secret to weaken a planet's defenses before an invasion, as opposed to being part of the Hivefleet army that seeks to swarm over all in their path and consume them.\n\n currently includes Tyranids as a playable race along with the Imperial Guard, Chaos Space Marines, Eldar, Orks, and Space Marines. The playable \"heroes\" (commander units) include the Hive Tyrant, Ravener Alpha and Lictor Alpha, and the forces of a Tyranid splinter fleet act as the primary antagonists in the single player campaign; the campaign is only playable from the point of view of the Blood Raven chapter of Space Marines. However, in the expansion \"Retribution\", they are a playable race in the single-player Campaign. \nNotably, the Tyranids are one of the few \"Warhammer 40,000\" factions that were not in the first game, . The fact that Tyranids were not present is likely due to their nature; as Tyranids do not create structures or technology in the same way as the other races (not to mention the lack of usable wargear because of this), it would be difficult to have them perform as the other races do in the game. Relic has also repeatedly stated that they wanted to include the Tyranids in Dawn Of War, but the game's graphic engine \"wouldn't do them justice\". Other issues cited included significant differences in economy. The altered overall game mechanics of the aforementioned sequel, together with improved graphical capabilities of later computers apparently allowed them to depict Tyranids in a manner the developers found acceptable.\n\n"}
{"id": "9154085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9154085", "title": "Æthelstan Half-King", "text": "Æthelstan Half-King\n\nÆthelstan Half-King (fl. 932 – 956) was an important and influential Ealdorman of East Anglia who interacted with five kings of England, including his adopted son Edgar the Peaceful. Many of Æthelstan's close relatives were also involved in important affairs, but soon after the death of king Eadred in 955, he left his position and became a monk at Glastonbury Abbey.\n\nÆthelstan was the son of Æthelfrith an Ealdorman, who held lands in Somerset, Berkshire, and Middlesex. His mother was Æthelgyth, daughter of Æthelwulf. His brothers Ælfstan, Æthelwald, and Eadric, were Ealdormen of Mercia, of Kent, and of Wessex, respectively. \n\nThe rise of Æthelstan's family began in the reign of King Edward the Elder, when Æthelfrith, whose family background is presumed to lie in Wessex, was appointed an Ealdorman in southern Mercia. Mercia was then ruled by Edward's sister Æthelflæd and her husband Æthelred.\n\nÆthelstan seems to have been appointed Ealdorman of East Anglia and other parts by King Æthelstan in about 932. The lands King Æthelstan gave him had mostly been part of the Danelaw which had only been forced out of the area after the Battle of Tempsford in Bedfordshire fifteen years earlier in 917. Æthelstan's brother Ælfstan became Ealdorman of some parts of Mercia at about the same time and both of them may have participated in king Æthelstan's invasion of Scotland in 934. His other brothers, Eadric and Æthelwald, were witnessing charters as Ealdormen by 940.\n\nÆthelstan and his family were supporters of the monastic reforms of Saint Dunstan which introduced the Benedictine rule to Glastonbury. Both Glastonbury, and Abingdon Abbey, were endowed by Æthelstan.\n\nÆthelstan's wife was named Ælfwynn. Her family came from the east Midlands. She was foster-mother of King Edgar of England. Ælfwynn's lands would later endow Ramsey Abbey, refounded by Bishop Æthelwold of Winchester, Bishop Oswald of Worcester, and Æthelstan's son Æthelwine. Byrhtferth of Ramsey, author of a \"Life of Saint Oswald\" in the early 11th century, devoted considerable space to Æthelstan's family, several of whom were buried at Ramsey. The epithet Half-King comes from Byrhtferth's writings. Several members of the family were buried, or reburied, at Ramsey.\n\nThe position of Æthelstan and his brothers in the middle of the 10th century has been compared with the similar dominance of the family of Godwin, Earl of Wessex in the 11th century. It is possible that Æthelstan's withdrawal to Glastonbury may not have been voluntary. However, the death of Æthelwald in 962 resulted in the family's offices in Wessex passing to their chief rivals, the family of Ealdorman Ælfhere. The result of this was that the two families were roughly equal in influence. Ælfhere's death in the early 970s did not result in a return of the old dominance of Æthelstan's family.\n\nPeople associated with Æthelstan's family include Ealdorman Byrhtnoth, whose defeat at the Battle of Maldon is commemorated in verse.\n\nÆthelstan's children included:\n\n\n"}
