{"id": "54216897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54216897", "title": "Abbi", "text": "Abbi\n\nAbbi may refer to\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29081575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29081575", "title": "Abdul Karim", "text": "Abdul Karim\n\nAbdul Karim () is a Muslim male given name and, in modern usage, also a surname. It is built from the Arabic words \"Abd\", \"al-\" and \"Karim\". The name means \"servant of the most Generous\", \"Al-Karīm\" being one of the names of God in the Qur'an, which give rise to the Muslim theophoric names.\n\nThe letter \"a\" of the \"al-\" is unstressed, and can be transliterated by almost any vowel, often by \"e\". So the first part can appear as Abdel, Abdul or Abd-al. The second part may appear as Karim, Kareem, Krim or in other ways.The whole name is subject to variable spacing and hyphenation.\n\nIt may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43085560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43085560", "title": "Adrian P. Thomas", "text": "Adrian P. Thomas\n\nAdrian P. Thomas was a father of seven children living in Troy, New York, when, in September 2008, his four-month-old son died. A preliminary medical examination indicated that the infant died from head trauma. The police interrogated Thomas for nearly 10 hours during which he confessed to throwing his son on the bed three times. The entire interrogation was videotaped. He was charged with second-degree murder, found guilty, and sentenced to 25 years to life in prison. \n\nIn 2011, Grover Babcock and Blue Hadaegh were looking for an example of a coerced confession as the basis for a documentary film they were planning and they used Thomas' interrogation video to make the documentary \"Scenes of a Crime\". Thomas appealed his conviction based on a coercive interrogation, however, the state appellate justices of New York denied his appeal in 2012. Thomas then appealed his conviction to the New York Court of Appeals. In February 2014, the seven judges unanimously ruled that Thomas must have another trial excluding the videotaped confession. A second trial was held and on June 12, 2014, the jury found him not guilty of second degree murder of his infant son. The case created controversy about how much coercion is legally permissible in police interrogations.\n\nIn September 2008, Thomas was 26 years old, unemployed, and the father of seven children living in Troy, New York. According to his relatives, he moved to Troy from Douglas, Georgia, after he married Wilhelmina Hicks.\nOn September 23, 2008,\nThomas' son Mathew Thomas, who was approximately four months old and had previously been pronounced brain dead in a hospital in Troy, died in Albany Medical Center Hospital.\nA doctor at the hospital told police that Mathew died of head injuries that he had sustained. Because of the doctor's report, police began questioning Thomas about the circumstances of his son's death, claiming that an adult must have physically hurt his son - specifically, either Thomas or his wife. \n\nThomas initially denied that he had done anything to his son that could have caused his head injuries, but towards the end of a nearly 10-hour interrogation, Thomas said he didn't do it, he was sure his wife didn't do it, but he would take the rap in the event something accidentally happened in his house. By the end of the interrogation and the police continuing to press for responses that fit with a physical injury, Thomas confessed to throwing Mathew on to the bed three times. He told police he had been fighting with his wife and that out of frustration, he threw his son on to the bed three times. He then signed a confession.\n\nDespite a subsequent medical examination in which the same doctor who had initially reported to police that Thomas' son had died of head trauma, found no evidence a skull fracture and determined the cause of death to be sepsis, Thomas' trial for second degree murder began in October 2009. The prosecution built their case around the videotaped confession Thomas gave police. They showed the jury the taped demonstration of Thomas throwing an object on the floor to illustrate how he threw his son onto the bed. This was the first time a videotaped confession had been shown to a jury in Rensselaer County, New York.\n\nIn his testimony to the jury, Thomas told the jurors that the admissions of guilt he made during the interrogation were all lies. He said he told the police that he weighed when he actually weighed . He also denied hitting his son's head with his head, hitting his son's head against the rail of the crib, and throwing his son on the bed three times. He said that he lied to the police during the interrogation because the police kept repeating that he had injured his son and because he wanted to get out of the interrogation so that he could go to the hospital and see his son and wife.\n\nOn October 22, 2009, Professor Richard Ofshe, an expert on false confessions during police interrogations, testified at a hearing that after reviewing the taped confession, he concluded that Thomas' confession fit his model of false confessions.\nHowever, after hearing the testimony of Professor Paul Cassell who stated that there was little empirical evidence to backup Ofshe's theory of false confessions, Judge Andrew Ceresia denied the defense's request to call Ofshe to testify.\nThe jury subsequently found Thomas guilty of second degree murder and judge Andrew Ceresia sentenced Thomas to 25 years to life in prison.\n\nGrover Babcock and Blue Hadaegh are independent documentary producers. They were interested in the phenomena of false confessions during police interrogations. They wanted to document with a real case the kind of interrogation process that could produce false confessions. They began searching for video of an entire police interrogation, which turned out to be difficult to find until they came across the videotape of Thomas' confession. They subsequently produced a documentary film, \"Scenes of a Crime\", using video from the Thomas interrogation to illustrate what can happen during police interrogations.\n\nThomas' appeal was mainly based on the interrogation techniques used. On March 22, 2012, the state appellate justices of New York denied Thomas' appeal. They concluded\n\nThe appeal then moved to the New York Court of Appeals. On February 20, 2014, the seven-member appeals court unanimously ruled that Thomas' interrogation went too far and that the videotaped confession should not have been shown to the jury. Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman who wrote for the majority concluded that \"What transpired during defendant’s interrogation was not consonant with, and indeed completely undermined, defendant’s right not to incriminate himself—to remain silent\". They ordered a new trial and ruled that the taped confession could not be shown to the jury.\n\nOn May 27, 2014, the second trial for Thomas, now 32 years old, began, again with a charge of second degree murder of his infant son.\nBecause the videotaped interrogation was inadmissible in the second trial, much of the prosecution and defense testimony focused was on the cause of death of four-month-old Mathew Thomas. Rensselaer County Medical Examiner Dr. Michael Sikirica told the jury that the infant had subdural hematomas, which are often cause in infants by head injuries resulting from violent shaking. Chicago specialist Dr. Jan Leestma told the jury that the infant died of septic shock due to a bacterial infection. Child abuse expert Dr. Patrick Barnes told the jury that the CT scans that he examined of brain swelling and blood on the brain of the infant were old and could have occurred at child birth. He told the jury that the infant was born premature and was also a twin, which placed him at greater risk for bleeding of the brain.\n\nIn closing arguments, Rensselaer County Assistant District Attorney Christa Book argued that Thomas bounced the infant on the bed until he fell on the ground causing head trauma, which killed him. Defense attorney Steve Coffey countered that Dr. Edge, who treated the infant at the hospital did not testify and neither did neuroradiologist Dr. Hoover. Coffey suggested to the jury that they did not testify because the prosecution did not like what they had to say. Book objected to Coffey's suggestions saying that they were \"ridiculous,\" but her objections were overruled by Judge Andrew Ceresia. Defense attorney Coffey also questioned the testimony of convicted felon William Terry who testified that Thomas had confessed to him while they were both in prison. Finally, Coffey reminded the jury that despite hearing terms such as \"wicked, evil, inhuman, brutal, despicable, wanton\" during the trial, they had to be convinced by the evidence beyond a reasonable doubt to find Thomas guilty.\n\nJurors deliberated for approximately seven hours spread over two days before returning a verdict. On June 12, 2014, the jury returned a verdict of not guilty. According to Thomas' defense attorney, Thomas was \"stunned\" by the verdict.\nAssistant District Attorney Christa Book said after the trial that \"I'm sorry that I could not bring Matthew justice.\" One of the jurors said after the trial: \"We were trying to grasp that we could not use stuff that was not allowable but we all agreed in the end he was not guilty based on what we had in front of us.\" \nAfter the verdict was returned, his family members said that he planned to return to Douglas, Georgia, and for a welcome home party. On June 15, 2014, he reunited with his family in Georgia.\n\nThe controversy over this case revolves around the interrogation technique police used to get a confession out of Thomas. The technique is called the \"Reid technique\". The Reid technique is a nine-step procedure followed by most police agencies in the United States. The technique begins by confronting the suspect with guilt, offering the suspect a reason for why he or she committed the crime, followed by various techniques of applying psychological pressure to get the suspect to confess and ultimately obtaining a written confession. \n\nThe New York Court of Appeals ruled in Thomas' case that the extent to which police lied and used coercion during an interrogation went too far, but their ruling did not lay out criteria for how much coercion is too much. According to a CBS Channel 6 report, this will lead police agencies across the state of New York to revise their interrogation protocols.\nGrover Babcock, in an interview with \"NPR\" argued that limits on coercive interrogations are important because they elicit too many false confessions. He stated that the Innocence Project has exonerated many people through DNA testing and that of those exonerated, about 25% to 30% had given false confessions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3049203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3049203", "title": "Alan Lascelles", "text": "Alan Lascelles\n\nSir Alan Frederick Lascelles (; 11 April 1887 – 10 August 1981) was a British courtier and civil servant who held several positions in the first half of the twentieth century, culminating in his position as Private Secretary to both King George VI and to Queen Elizabeth II. He wrote the Lascelles Principles in a 1950 letter to the editor of \"The Times\", using the pen-name \"Senex\".\n\nSir Alan was known to his intimates as \"Tommy\". He was born on 11 April 1887 in the village of Sutton Waldron in Dorset, England, the son of Commander Frederick Canning Lascelles and Frederica Maria Liddell, and the grandson of The 4th Earl of Harewood. He was thus a cousin of The 6th Earl of Harewood, who married Mary, Princess Royal, sister of his employers, Edward VIII and George VI.\n\nAfter attending school at Marlborough College, followed by Trinity College, Oxford, Lascelles served in France with the Bedfordshire Yeomanry during the First World War, where he rose to the rank of Captain and was awarded the Military Cross, after which he became the aide-de-camp to his brother-in-law Lord Lloyd, the Governor of Bombay from 1919 to 1920.\n\nLascelles then returned to Britain and was appointed Assistant Private Secretary to Edward, Prince of Wales, in 1920, serving in that role until resigning in 1929, citing differences with the prince. From 1931 to 1935, he was Secretary to the Governor General of Canada.\n\nLascelles became the Assistant Private Secretary to King George V in 1935.\n\nWhen the Prince of Wales ascended to the throne as King Edward VIII, upon the death of King George V, in January 1936, Lascelles served briefly as the new King's private secretary. Then, when Edward VIII abdicated in December 1936, Lascelles became private secretary to King George VI, some time after the new king's accession.\n\nLascelles was knighted by King George VI, while aboard a train, during the highly successful 1939 royal tour of Canada and the United States, which he had helped to arrange and manage.\n\nIn 1943, Sir Alan was promoted to Private Secretary to King George VI. In 1952, he became Private Secretary to Queen Elizabeth II, a role he held until 1953.\n\nSir Alan was also Keeper of the Royal Archives from 1943 to 1953.\n\nSir Alan's papers are now held in the Churchill Archives Centre at Churchill College, Cambridge.\n\nOn 16 March 1920, Sir Alan married Joan Frances Vere Thesiger (1895–1971).\n\nThey had three children:\n\nSir Alan Lascelles died on 10 August 1981 at Kensington Palace at the age of 94.\n\nHe is portrayed by Pip Torrens in the Netflix series \"The Crown\", where he is portrayed as a strict enforcer of regal protocol and convention. He did not hold back in giving the Crown advice contrary to the Queen's views. Queen Elizabeth appreciated his role and work with the palace and frequently took his advice even when it compromised her relationship with her sister Princess Margaret.\n\nIn the film \"The King's Speech\", he is played by Richard Dixon, although the credits only refer to the character as \"Private Secretary\".\n\n"}
{"id": "711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711", "title": "Albert Sidney Johnston", "text": "Albert Sidney Johnston\n\nAlbert Sidney Johnston (February 2, 1803 – April 6, 1862) served as a general in three different armies: the Texian (\"i.e.\" Republic of Texas) Army, the United States Army, and the Confederate States Army. He saw extensive combat during his 34-year military career, fighting actions in the Black Hawk War, Texas War of Independence, the Mexican–American War, the Utah War, and the American Civil War.\n\nConsidered by Confederate States President Jefferson Davis to be the finest general officer in the Confederacy before the later emergence of Robert E. Lee, he was killed early in the Civil War at the Battle of Shiloh on April 6, 1862. Johnston was the highest-ranking officer, Union or Confederate, killed during the entire war. Davis believed the loss of General Johnston \"was the turning point of our fate.\"\n\nJohnston was unrelated to Confederate general Joseph E. Johnston.\n\nJohnston was born in Washington, Kentucky, the youngest son of Dr. John and Abigail (Harris) Johnston. His father was a native of Salisbury, Connecticut. Although Albert Johnston was born in Kentucky, he lived much of his life in Texas, which he considered his home. He was first educated at Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky, where he met fellow student Jefferson Davis. Both were appointed to the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, Davis two years behind Johnston. In 1826, Johnston graduated eighth of 41 cadets in his class from West Point with a commission as a brevet second lieutenant in the 2nd U.S. Infantry.\n\nJohnston was assigned to posts in New York and Missouri and served in the brief Black Hawk War in 1832 as chief of staff to Bvt. Brig. Gen. Henry Atkinson.\n\nIn 1829 he married Henrietta Preston, sister of Kentucky politician and future Civil War general William Preston. They had one son, William Preston Johnston, who became a colonel in the Confederate States Army. The senior Johnston resigned his commission in 1834 in order to care for his dying wife in Kentucky, who succumbed two years later to tuberculosis.\n\nAfter serving as Secretary of War for the Republic of Texas from 1838 to 1840, Johnston resigned and returned to Kentucky. In 1843, he married Eliza Griffin, his late wife's first cousin. The couple moved to Texas, where they settled on a large plantation in Brazoria County. Johnston named the property \"China Grove\". Here they raised Johnston's two children from his first marriage and the first three children born to Eliza and him. (A sixth child was born later when they lived in Los Angeles).\n\nIn 1836 Johnston moved to Texas. He enlisted as a private in the Texian Army during the Texas War of Independence against the Republic of Mexico. He was named Adjutant General as a colonel in the Republic of Texas Army on August 5, 1836. On January 31, 1837, he became senior brigadier general in command of the Texas Army.\n\nOn February 5, 1837, he fought in a duel with Texas Brig. Gen. Felix Huston, as they challenged each other for the command of the Texas Army; Johnston refused to fire on Huston and lost the position after he was wounded in the pelvis.\n\nOn December 22, 1838, Mirabeau B. Lamar, the second president of the Republic of Texas, appointed Johnston as Secretary of War. He provided for the defense of the Texas border against Mexican invasion, and in 1839 conducted a campaign against Indians in northern Texas. In February 1840, he resigned and returned to Kentucky.\n\nJohnston returned to Texas during the Mexican–American War (1846-1848), under General Zachary Taylor as a colonel of the 1st Texas Rifle Volunteers. The enlistments of his volunteers ran out just before the Battle of Monterrey. Johnston convinced a few volunteers to stay and fight as he served as the inspector general of volunteers and fought at the battles of Monterrey and Buena Vista.\n\nHe remained on his plantation after the war until he was appointed by later 12th President Zachary Taylor to the U.S. Army as a major and was made a paymaster in December 1849. He served in that role for more than five years, making six tours, and traveling more than annually on the Indian frontier of Texas. He served on the Texas frontier at Fort Mason and elsewhere in the West.\n\nIn 1855, 14th President Franklin Pierce appointed him colonel of the new 2nd U.S. Cavalry (the unit that preceded the modern 5th U.S.), a new regiment, which he organized. On August 19, 1856, Gen. Persifor Smith, at the request of Kansas Territorial Governor Wilson Shannon, sent Col. Johnston with 1300 men composed of the 2d Cavalry Dragoons from Fort Riley, a battalion of the 6th Infantry and Capt. Howe's artillery company from Jefferson Barracks, near St. Louis to protect the territorial capital at Lecompton from an imminent attack by James Henry Lane and his abolitionist \"Army of the North.\"\n\nAs a key figure in the Utah War, Johnston led U.S. troops who established a non-Mormon government in the Mormon territory. He received a brevet promotion to brigadier general in 1857 for his service in Utah. He spent 1860 in Kentucky until December 21, when he sailed for California to take command of the Department of the Pacific.\n\nAt the outbreak of the American Civil War, Johnston was the commander of the U.S. Army Department of the Pacific in California. Like many regular army officers from the South, he was opposed to secession. But he resigned his commission soon after he heard of the secession of his adopted state of Texas. It was accepted by the War Department on May 6, 1861, effective May 3. On April 28 he moved to Los Angeles, the home of his wife's brother John Griffin. Considering staying in California with his wife and five children, Johnston remained there until May.\n\nSoon, under suspicion by local Union officials, he evaded arrest and joined the Los Angeles Mounted Rifles as a private, leaving Warner's Ranch May 27. He participated in their trek across the southwestern deserts to Texas, crossing the Colorado River into the Confederate Territory of Arizona on July 4, 1861.\n\nEarly in the Civil War, Confederate President Jefferson Davis decided that the Confederacy would attempt to hold as much of its territory as possible, and therefore distributed military forces around its borders and coasts. In the summer of 1861, Davis appointed several generals to defend Confederate lines from the Mississippi River east to the Allegheny Mountains.\n\nThe most sensitive, and in many ways the most crucial areas, along the Mississippi River and in western Tennessee along the Tennessee and the Cumberland rivers were placed under the command of Maj. Gen. Leonidas Polk and Brig. Gen. Gideon J. Pillow. The latter had initially been in command in Tennessee as that State's top general. Their impolitic occupation of Columbus, Kentucky, on September 3, 1861, two days before Johnston arrived in the Confederacy's capital of Richmond, Virginia, after his cross-country journey, drove Kentucky from its stated neutrality. The majority of Kentuckians allied with the Union camp. Polk and Pillow's action gave Union Brig. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant an excuse to take control of the strategically located town of Paducah, Kentucky, without raising the ire of most Kentuckians and the pro-Union majority in the State legislature.\n\nOn September 10, 1861, Johnston was assigned to command the huge area of the Confederacy west of the Allegheny Mountains, except for coastal areas. He became commander of the Confederacy's western armies in the area often called the Western Department or Western Military Department. Johnston's appointment as a full general by his friend and admirer Jefferson Davis already had been confirmed by the Confederate Senate on August 31, 1861. The appointment had been backdated to rank from May 30, 1861, making him the second highest ranking general in the Confederate States Army. Only Adjutant General and Inspector General Samuel Cooper ranked ahead of him. After his appointment, Johnston immediately headed for his new territory. He was permitted to call on governors of Arkansas, Tennessee and Mississippi for new troops, although this authority was largely stifled by politics, especially with respect to Mississippi. On September 13, 1861, Johnston ordered Brig. Gen. Felix Zollicoffer with 4,000 men to occupy Cumberland Gap in Kentucky in order to block Union troops from coming into eastern Tennessee. The Kentucky legislature had voted to side with the Union after the occupation of Columbus by Polk. By September 18, Johnston had Brig. Gen. Simon Bolivar Buckner with another 4,000 men blocking the railroad route to Tennessee at Bowling Green, Kentucky.\n\nJohnston had fewer than 40,000 men spread throughout Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas and Missouri. Of these, 10,000 were in Missouri under Missouri State Guard Maj. Gen. Sterling Price. Johnston did not quickly gain many recruits when he first requested them from the governors, but his more serious problem was lacking sufficient arms and ammunition for the troops he already had. As the Confederate government concentrated efforts on the units in the East, they gave Johnston small numbers of reinforcements and minimal amounts of arms and material. Johnston maintained his defense by conducting raids and other measures to make it appear he had larger forces than he did, a strategy that worked for several months. Johnston's tactics had so annoyed and confused Union Brig. Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman in Kentucky that he became paranoid and mentally unstable. Sherman overestimated Johnston's forces, and had to be relieved by Brig. Gen. Don Carlos Buell on November 9, 1861.\n\nEast Tennessee (a heavily pro-Union region of the South during the Civil War) was held for the Confederacy by two unimpressive brigadier generals appointed by Jefferson Davis: Felix Zollicoffer, a brave but untrained and inexperienced officer, and soon-to-be Maj. Gen. George B. Crittenden, a former U.S. Army officer with apparent alcohol problems. While Crittenden was away in Richmond, Zollicoffer moved his forces to the north bank of the upper Cumberland River near Mill Springs (now Nancy, Kentucky), putting the river to his back and his forces into a trap. Zollicoffer decided it was impossible to obey orders to return to the other side of the river because of scarcity of transport and proximity of Union troops. When Union Brig. Gen. George H. Thomas moved against the Confederates, Crittenden decided to attack one of the two parts of Thomas's command at Logan's Cross Roads near Mill Springs before the Union forces could unite. At the Battle of Mill Springs on January 19, 1862, the ill-prepared Confederates, after a night march in the rain, attacked the Union force with some initial success. As the battle progressed, Zollicoffer was killed, Crittenden was unable to lead the Confederate force (he may have been intoxicated), and the Confederates were turned back and routed by a Union bayonet charge, suffering 533 casualties from their force of 4,000. The Confederate troops who escaped were assigned to other units as General Crittenden faced an investigation of his conduct.\n\nAfter the Confederate defeat at the Mill Springs, Davis sent Johnston a brigade and a few other scattered reinforcements. He also assigned him Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard, who was supposed to attract recruits because of his victories early in the war, and act as a competent subordinate for Johnston. The brigade was led by Brig. Gen. John B. Floyd, considered incompetent. He took command at Fort Donelson as the senior general present just before Union Brig. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant attacked the fort. Historians believe the assignment of Beauregard to the west stimulated Union commanders to attack the forts before Beauregard could make a difference in the theater. Union officers heard that he was bringing 15 regiments with him, but this was an exaggeration of his forces.\n\nBased on the assumption that Kentucky neutrality would act as a shield against a direct invasion from the north, Tennessee initially had sent men to Virginia and concentrated defenses in the Mississippi Valley, circumstances that no longer applied in September 1861. Even before Johnston arrived in Tennessee, construction of two forts had been started to defend the Tennessee and the Cumberland rivers, which provided avenues into the State from the north. Both forts were located in Tennessee in order to respect Kentucky neutrality, but these were not in ideal locations. Fort Henry on the Tennessee River was in an unfavorable low-lying location, commanded by hills on the Kentucky side of the river. Fort Donelson on the Cumberland River, although in a better location, had a vulnerable land side and did not have enough heavy artillery to defend against gunboats.\n\nMaj. Gen. Polk ignored the problems of the forts when he took command. After Johnston took command, Polk at first refused to comply with Johnston's order to send an engineer, Lt. Joseph K. Dixon, to inspect the forts. After Johnston asserted his authority, Polk had to allow Dixon to proceed. Dixon recommended that the forts be maintained and strengthened, although they were not in ideal locations, because much work had been done on them and the Confederates might not have time to build new ones. Johnston accepted his recommendations. Johnston wanted Major Alexander P. Stewart to command the forts but President Davis appointed Brig. Gen. Lloyd Tilghman as commander.\n\nTo prevent Polk from dissipating his forces by allowing some men to join a partisan group, Johnston ordered him to send Brig. Gen. Gideon Pillow and 5,000 men to Fort Donelson. Pillow took up a position at nearby Clarksville, Tennessee and did not move into the fort until February 7, 1862. Alerted by a Union reconnaissance on January 14, 1862, Johnston ordered Tilghman to fortify the high ground opposite Fort Henry, which Polk had failed to do despite Johnston's orders. Tilghman failed to act decisively on these orders, which in any event were too late to be adequately carried out.\n\nGen. Beauregard arrived at Johnston's headquarters at Bowling Green on February 4, 1862, and was given overall command of Polk's force at the western end of Johnston's line at Columbus, Kentucky. On February 6, 1862, Union Navy gunboats quickly reduced the defenses of ill-sited Fort Henry, inflicting 21 casualties on the small remaining Confederate force. Brig. Gen. Lloyd Tilghman surrendered the 94 remaining officers and men of his approximately 3,000-man force which had not been sent to Fort Donelson before U.S. Grant's force could even take up their positions. Johnston knew he could be trapped at Bowling Green if Fort Donelson fell, so he moved his force to Nashville, the capital of Tennessee and an increasingly important Confederate industrial center, beginning on February 11, 1862.\n\nJohnston also reinforced Fort Donelson with 12,000 more men, including those under Floyd and Pillow, a curious decision in view of his thought that the Union gunboats alone might be able to take the fort. He did order the commanders of the fort to evacuate the troops if the fort could not be held. The senior generals sent to the fort to command the enlarged garrison, Gideon J. Pillow and John B. Floyd, squandered their chance to avoid having to surrender most of the garrison and on February 16, 1862, Brig. Gen. Simon Buckner, having been abandoned by Floyd and Pillow, surrendered Fort Donelson. Colonel Nathan Bedford Forrest escaped with his cavalry force of about 700 men before the surrender. The Confederates suffered about 1,500 casualties with an estimated 12,000 to 14,000 taken prisoner. Union casualties were 500 killed, 2,108 wounded, 224 missing.\n\nJohnston, who had little choice in allowing Floyd and Pillow to take charge at Fort Donelson on the basis of seniority after he ordered them to add their forces to the garrison, took the blame and suffered calls for his removal because a full explanation to the press and public would have exposed the weakness of the Confederate position. His passive defensive performance while positioning himself in a forward position at Bowling Green, spreading his forces too thinly, not concentrating his forces in the face of Union advances, and appointing or relying upon inadequate or incompetent subordinates subjected him to criticism at the time and by later historians. The fall of the forts exposed Nashville to imminent attack, and it fell without resistance to Union forces under Brig. Gen. Buell on February 25, 1862, two days after Johnston had to pull his forces out in order to avoid having them captured as well.\n\nJohnston had various remaining military units scattered throughout his territory and retreating to the south to avoid being cut off. Johnston himself retreated with the force under his personal command, the Army of Central Kentucky, from the vicinity of Nashville. With Beauregard's help, Johnston decided to concentrate forces with those formerly under Polk and now already under Beauregard's command at the strategically located railroad crossroads of Corinth, Mississippi, which he reached by a circuitous route. Johnston kept the Union forces, now under the overall command of the ponderous Maj. Gen. Henry Halleck, confused and hesitant to move, allowing Johnston to reach his objective undetected. This delay allowed Jefferson Davis finally to send reinforcements from the garrisons of coastal cities and another highly rated but prickly general, Braxton Bragg, to help organize the western forces. Bragg at least calmed the nerves of Beauregard and Polk who had become agitated by their apparent dire situation in the face of numerically superior forces before the arrival of Johnston on March 24, 1862.\n\nJohnston's army of 17,000 men gave the Confederates a combined force of about 40,000 to 44,669 men at Corinth. On March 29, 1862, Johnston officially took command of this combined force, which continued to use the Army of the Mississippi name under which it had been organized by Beauregard on March 5.\n\nJohnston now planned to defeat the Union forces piecemeal before the various Union units in Kentucky and Tennessee under Grant with 40,000 men at nearby Pittsburg Landing, Tennessee, and the now Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell on his way from Nashville with 35,000 men, could unite against him. Johnston started his army in motion on April 3, 1862, intent on surprising Grant's force as soon as the next day, but they moved slowly due to their inexperience, bad roads and lack of adequate staff planning. Due to the delays, as well as several contacts with the enemy, Johnston's second in command, P. G. T. Beauregard, felt the element of surprise had been lost and recommended calling off the attack. Johnston decided to proceed as planned, stating \"I would fight them if they were a million.\" His army was finally in position within a mile or two of Grant's force, and undetected, by the evening of April 5, 1862.\n\nJohnston launched a massive surprise attack with his concentrated forces against Grant at the Battle of Shiloh on April 6, 1862. As the Confederate forces overran the Union camps, Johnston seemed to be everywhere, personally leading and rallying troops up and down the line on his horse. At about 2:30 pm, while leading one of those charges against a Union camp near the \"Peach Orchard,\" he was wounded, taking a bullet behind his right knee. He apparently did not think the wound was serious at the time, or even possibly did not feel it. It is possible that Johnston's duel in 1837 had caused nerve damage or numbness to his right leg and that he did not feel the wound to his leg as a result. The bullet had in fact clipped a part of his popliteal artery and his boot was filling up with blood. There were no medical personnel on scene at the time, since Johnston had sent his personal surgeon to care for the wounded Confederate troops and Yankee prisoners earlier in the battle.\n\nWithin a few minutes, Johnston was observed by his staff to be nearly fainting. Among his staff was Isham G. Harris, the Governor of Tennessee, who had ceased to make any real effort to function as governor after learning that Abraham Lincoln had appointed Andrew Johnson as military governor of Tennessee. Seeing Johnston slumping in his saddle and his face turning deathly pale, Harris asked: \"General, are you wounded?\" Johnston glanced down at his leg wound, then faced Harris and replied in a weak voice his last words: \"Yes... and I fear seriously.\" Harris and other staff officers removed Johnston from his horse and carried him to a small ravine near the \"Hornets Nest\" and desperately tried to aid the general who had lost consciousness by this point. Harris then sent an aide to fetch Johnston's surgeon but did not apply a tourniquet to Johnson's wounded leg. Before a doctor could be found, Johnston died from blood loss a few minutes later. It is believed that Johnston may have lived for as long as one hour after receiving his fatal wound. Ironically, it was later discovered that Johnston had a tourniquet in his pocket when he died.\n\nHarris and the other officers wrapped General Johnston's body in a blanket so as not to damage the troops' morale with the sight of the dead general. Johnston and his wounded horse, Fire Eater, were taken to his field headquarters on the Corinth road, where his body remained in his tent until the Confederate Army withdrew to Corinth the next day, April 7, 1862, after failing to gain a decisive victory over the Union armies. From there, his body was taken to the home of Colonel William Inge, which had been his headquarters in Corinth. It was covered in the Confederate flag and lay in state for several hours.\n\nIt is probable that a Confederate soldier fired the fatal round. No Union soldiers had ever been observed to have gotten behind Johnston during the fatal charge, but it is known that many Confederates were firing at the Union lines while Johnston charged well in advance of his soldiers. Furthermore, the surgeon who later dug the bullet out of Johnston's leg identified the round as one fired from a Pattern 1853 Enfield. No Union troops in the area in which Johnston was hit had been issued Enfield rifles, but the Enfield rifle was standard issue for the Confederate forces Johnston was leading.\n\nJohnston was the highest-ranking fatality of the war on either side, and his death was a strong blow to the morale of the Confederacy. At the time, Davis considered him the best general in the country.\n\nJohnston was survived by his wife Eliza and six children. His wife and five younger children, including one born after he went to war, chose to live out their days at home in Los Angeles with Eliza's brother, Dr. John Strother Griffin. Johnston's eldest son, Albert Sidney Jr. (born in Texas), had already followed him into the Confederate States Army. In 1863, after taking home leave in Los Angeles, Albert Jr. was on his way out of San Pedro harbor on a ferry. While a steamer was taking on passengers from the ferry, a wave swamped the smaller boat, causing its boilers to explode. Albert Jr. was killed in the accident.\n\nKilled in action, General Johnston received the highest praise ever given by the Confederate government; accounts were published, on December 20, 1862, and thereafter, in the Los Angeles \"Star\" of his family's hometown. Johnston Street, Hancock Street, and Griffin Avenue, each in northeast Los Angeles, are named after the general and his family, who lived in the neighborhood.\n\nJohnston was initially buried in New Orleans. In 1866, a joint resolution of the Texas Legislature was passed to have his body moved and reinterred at the Texas State Cemetery in Austin. The re-interment occurred in 1867. Forty years later, the state appointed Elisabet Ney to design a monument and sculpture of him to be erected at the grave site, installed in 1905.\n\nThe Texas Historical Commission has erected a historical marker near the entrance of what was once Johnston's plantation. An adjacent marker was erected by the San Jacinto Chapter of the Daughters of The Republic of Texas and the Lee, Roberts, and Davis Chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederate States of America.\n\nIn 1916, the University of Texas at Austin recognized several confederate veterans (including Johnston) with statues on its South Mall. On August 21, 2017, as part of the wave of confederate monument removals in America, Johnston's statue was taken down. Plans were announced to add it to the Briscoe Center for American History on the east side of the university campus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5218662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5218662", "title": "Alun Cochrane", "text": "Alun Cochrane\n\nAlun Cochrane (born 8 February 1975) is a British comedian. He was born in Glasgow and raised in Mirfield, West Yorkshire.\n\nIn 2004 Cochrane's first Edinburgh Festival Fringe show, \"My Favourite Words in My Best Stories\", was nominated for the Best Newcomer award at the Perrier Awards.\n\nHe went on to be nominated for \"Best Compère\" and \"Best Breakthrough Act\" at the 2005 Chortle Awards. He returned to the Edinburgh Fringe during the same year with a new solo show. \"Comedy With Sad Bits\", and in 2006 with \"Introducing an Introduction to Alun Cochrane's Imagination\".\n\nAt the 2008 Edinburgh Festival Fringe he played at the Assembly Rooms with the show \"Alun Cochrane. Owner of a shed. And a son. Thinks the world is wonky\".\n\nCochrane's 2009 Edinburgh Festival Fringe show was called \"Alun Cochrane is a Daydreamer (at Night)\". This was the first festival show he performed at The Stand. His 2010 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, \"Jokes. Life. And Jokes about Life\", centred on a box of his own 'hand-chiseled, lovingly created jokes' from which, he randomly selected and told jokes, integrated into the anecdotal aspect of his show.\n\nIn 2011 he performed, at The Stand's main venue, \"Moments of Alun\", a show about little moments in life, centring largely around a recent house purchase during which he realised that with a 25-year mortgage he had to feel funny for a 1/4 of a century.\n\nCochrane appeared on the panel show \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\" in December 2005. In May 2006 he appeared on the satirical news quiz \"Have I Got News For You\", playing on Paul Merton's team.\n\nCochrane had a non-speaking role as a waiter in the third series of \"Not Going Out\", in an episode entitled \"Amy\", broadcast on 13 February 2009 on BBC One. He was also the warm-up man for the recording of this episode at Teddington Studios in London. Cochrane also appeared as Jason the Asthmatic in an episode of the medical drama \"Always and Everyone\".\n\nHe has appeared on various television stand-up shows, including on the Swansea edition of \"Michael McIntyre's Comedy Roadshow\" in June 2009, and has been a panellist several times on Channel 4's \"8 Out of 10 Cats\". He appeared on \"Mock the Week\" on 30 July 2009.\n\nHe had a small role as a Chauffeur in episode 4 of \"We Are Klang\".\n\nHe appeared alongside Sue Perkins on the Sky Arts panel show What the Dickens?.\n\nOn 31 October 2010 Cochrane was one of the supporting acts on the fourth episode of \"Dave's One Night Stand\".\n\nIn December 2015, Cochrane played a barman in the BBC Two comedy-drama \"A Gert Lush Christmas\".\n\nIn late September 2016 Alun had the esteemed privilege of hosting The Lawyers Business Leadership Awards, where in a post event survey he received a rating of 9 out 10.\n\nIn May 2017, Cochrane made a guest appearance as a patient in the third episode of the BBC mockumentary series \"Hospital People\".\n\nCochrane appeared in series three of the BBC Radio 4 stand up show \"4 Stands Up\" and has also featured on \"The Now Show\" and on \"Just a Minute\". He has also appeared on BBC Radio 5 Live's \"Fighting Talk\". Cochrane started as a full-time presenter on Frank Skinner's Absolute Radio show in June 2011, replacing Gareth Richards. Skinner refers to him as \"The Cockerel\".\n\nIn April 2013 he starred in his own four-part series on BBC Radio 4 series titled \"Alun Cochrane's Fun House\" where he takes the listeners on a room by room stand-up tour of his house. The four episodes were titled 'The Kitchen', 'The Living Room', 'The Bathroom' and 'The Bedroom'.\n\nAlun has a son and is a supporter of Huddersfield Town F.C..\n\nCochrane has been noted for his height, just under . He backed this claim on an episode of \"Dave's One Night Stand\".\n\nIn November 2011 Cochrane mentioned on Absolute Radio that he is colourblind.\n\n"}
{"id": "7749696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7749696", "title": "Anténor Firmin", "text": "Anténor Firmin\n\nJoseph Auguste Anténor Firmin (18 October 1850 – 19 September 1911), better known as simply Anténor Firmin, was a Haitian anthropologist, journalist, and politician. Firmin is best known for his book \"De l'égalité des races humaines\" (), which was published as a rebuttal to French writer Count Arthur de Gobineau's work \"Essai sur l'inégalité des races humaines\" (). Gobineau's book asserted the superiority of the Aryan race and the inferiority of blacks and other people of color.\n\nFirmin's work, first published in 1885, argued the opposite, that \"all men are endowed with the same qualities and the same faults, without distinction of color or anatomical form. The races are equal\" (pp. 450). He was marginalized at the time for his beliefs that all human races were equal.\n\nFirmin pioneered the integration of race and physical anthropology and may be the first black anthropologist. His work was recognized not only in Haiti but also among African scholars as an early work of négritude. He influenced Jean Price-Mars, the founder of Haitian ethnology and on American anthropologist Melville Herskovits.\n\nBorn in Cap-Haïtien, Firmin worked in teaching, politics, and diplomacy. He founded \"Le Messager du Nord\", a political and literary publication.\n\nIn his best known work, \"De l'égalité des races humaines\" (aka \"Of the Equality of Human Races\") published in 1885, Firmin tackles two bases of existing theories on black inferiority in an effort to critique Gobineau's \"De l'Inégalité des Races Humaines\" (aka \"Of the Inequality of Human Races\"). On the one hand, Firmin challenges the idea of brain size or cephalic index as a measure of human intelligence and on the other he reasserts the presence of African Blacks in pharaonic Egypt. He then delves into the significance of the Haitian Revolution of 1804 and ensuing achievements of Haitians such as Léon Audain and Isaïe Jeanty in medicine and science and Edmond Paul in the social sciences. (Both Audain and Jeanty had obtained prizes from the Académie de Médecine de Paris.) \n\nFirmin is one of three Caribbean men who launched the idea of Pan-Africanism at the end of the 19th century to combat colonialism in Africa. As a candidate in Haiti's 1902 presidential elections, he declared that the Haitian state should \"serve in the rehabilitation of Africa\". Along with Trinidadian lawyer Henry Sylvester Williams and fellow Haitian Bénito Sylvain, he was the organizer of the Panafrican Conference which took place in London in 1900. That conference launched the Panafricanism movement. W.E.B. Du Bois attended the conference and was put in charge of drafting the general report. After the conference, 5 panafrican congresses were held in the 20th century which eventually led to the creation of the African Union.\n\nAnténor Firmin devised between 1875 and 1898 a Caribbean Confederation project which envisioned the unification of Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Jamaica and Puerto Rico.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43414354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43414354", "title": "Asporça Hatun", "text": "Asporça Hatun\n\nAsporça Hatun ( 1300 – 1362, birth name \"Princess Asporsha\") was the second wife of Ottoman Sultan Orhan Gazi and the mother of Şehzade Ibrahim, Fatma Hatun and Selcuk Hatun of the Ottoman Empire.\nThe parentage of Asporça Hatun is a matter of controversy. According to some sources she was the daughter of Emperor Andronikos III Palaiologos and his wife Anna of Savoy. However, it is highly importable as the birth dates of Andronikos III Palaiologos and Asporça Hatun are nearly the same. It is possible that she was the daughter of Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos.\n\nIn 1316 Orhan married Princess Asporsha for the location of the Byzantine Empire, but in spite of the marriage, the war continued. After her marriage she converted to Islam like her fellow consort Nilüfer Hatun, and in the same year she gave birth to Şehzade Ibrahim, governor of Eskişehir who was executed by order of his half-brother Murad I, which was followed by the birth of Princesses Fatma Hatun and Selcuk Hatun. Nothing else is known about her except that Osman granted this daughter-in-law several villages, which she then deeded to her descendants in 1323, making her son her executor.\n\nShe died in 1362 and was buried in the türbe (tomb) with her husband, Orhan and her fellow consort Nilüfer Hatun, called \"Gümüşlü Kumbet\" in Bursa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20635582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20635582", "title": "Carlos Acuña", "text": "Carlos Acuña\n\nCarlos Acuña (November 4, 1915 – February 19, 1999) was an Argentine Tango singer and composer. As a vocalist, he was best known for his performance of \"La Calesita\" (\"The Merry-Go-Round\"); and as a composer, for \"Un boliche\" (\"A Tavern\").\n\nBorn Carlos Ernesto di Loreto, Acuña began his career in the 1930s and became known for his deep and highly expressive voice. He performed with orchestra leaders such as Ernesto de la Cruz, Carlos di Sarli, and Mariano Mores; the poet and tango lyricist Celedonio Flores, his closest friend, introduced many of his performances until his own death in 1947.\n\nAcuña joined Mores' orchestra in 1955, with whom he recorded 15 albums for Odeon Records. His foreign travels as a performer brought him success in Uruguay, Mexico, Italy and Spain, where he became a close friend of the exiled Juan Perón. He lived in Spain for 17 years, where he obtained great success, then returned to Argentina in 1978.\n\nHe died in Buenos Aires in 1999, and was interred in La Chacarita Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1172596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172596", "title": "Coat of arms of the Netherlands", "text": "Coat of arms of the Netherlands\n\nThe coat of arms of the Kingdom of the Netherlands was originally adopted in 1815 and later modified in 1907. The arms are a composite of the arms of the former Dutch Republic and the arms of the House of Nassau, it features a checkered shield with a lion grasping a sword in one hand and a bundle of arrows in the other and is the heraldic symbol of the monarch (King Willem-Alexander) and the country. The monarch uses a version of the arms with a mantle () while the government of the Netherlands uses a smaller version without the mantle (cloak) or the pavilion, sometimes only the shield and crown are used (). The components of the coats of arms were regulated by Queen Wilhelmina in a royal decree of 10 July 1907, affirmed by Queen Juliana in a royal decree of 23 April 1980.\n\nThe blazon is as follows:\n\n\"Azure, billetty Or a lion with a coronet Or armed and langued Gules holding in his dexter paw a sword Argent hilted Or and in the sinister paw seven arrows Argent pointed and bound together Or. (The seven arrows stand for the seven provinces of the Union of Utrecht.) The shield is crowned with the (Dutch) royal crown and supported by two lions \"Or armed and langued gules\". They stand on a scroll Azure with the text (\"Or\") \"Je Maintiendrai\" (, French for \"I shall maintain\".)\n\nThe monarch places this coat of arms on a mantle \"gules\" lined with ermine. Above the mantle is a pavilion \"gules\" again topped with the royal crown.\n\nIn the royal decree, it is stated that male successors may replace the crown on the shield with a helm with the crest of Nassau.\n\nThis version of the coat of arms has been in use since 1907 but differs only slightly from the version that was adopted in 1815. From 1815 until 1907 all the lions wore the royal crown and the supporting lions were facing.\n\nThe royal arms were adopted by the first king of The Kingdom of the Netherlands, William I, when he became king after the Congress of Vienna in 1815. As king, he adopted a coat of arms that combined elements of his family’s (Orange-Nassau) coat of arms and that of the former Dutch Republic that existed from 1581 until 1795.\n\nFrom his family arms he used the \"azure, billetty or\" with \"a lion rampant or\" of Nassau (blue shield, lion, billets). The \"Je Maintiendrai\" motto represents the Orange family since it came into the family with the princedom of Orange as \"Je Maintiendrai Châlons\". These elements are also found in the arms of king William III, who was also king of England, Scotland & Ireland (1689–1702). From the arms of the former States General of the Republic of the United Provinces he took the lion with a coronet, sword and arrows. The arrows symbolize the seven provinces that made up the Republic, the sword the determination to defend their liberty, and the coronet their sovereignty. William replaced the coronet with a royal crown. In 1907, Queen Wilhelmina returned to an open coronet.\n\nThe arms of Nassau has existed since about 1250. There are two versions of the Nassau arms, representing the two main branches. This is a result of two brothers, count Walram II and count Otto I, agreeing to divide their father's (Henry II) lands between them in 1255. The line of Walram added a crown to the lion in the Nassau arms to make it different from the lion used by the line of Otto.\n\nThe kings and queens of the Netherlands are descendants of count Otto. The Grand Dukes of Luxemburg are descendants of count Walram. They also still use \"Nassau\" in their arms. Both lines are now extinct in the male line.\n\nThe helm and crest that can be used in the Royal arms by the male successors to the throne (and is in fact being used by some male members of the Royal Family) is:\n\"On a (ceremonial) helmet, with bars and decoration Or and mantling Azure and Or, issuing from a coronet Or, a pair of wings joined Sable each with an arched bend Argent charged with three leaves of the lime-tree stems upward Vert\".\n\nThis crest is used by the descendants of Otto and differs from the crest used by the descendants of Walram. But in the royal decree of 1815 the crest issuing from a crown on the Dutch Royal Arms was the one used by the Walram line. Why this was done is not sure. Maybe due to the \"mistake\" this crest was hardly used.\n\nThe crest of the Walram-line is:\nBetween two trunks Azure billetty Or a sitting lion Or.\nThe trunks are probably a misinterpretation of two cow horns, a crest that is frequently used in German heraldry.\nOn the Grand Coat of Arms of the Grand Duke of Luxemburg the lion is crowned, armed and langued Gules.\n\nThe motto has been used by every \"ruling\" member of the Nassau family, who was also the prince of Orange since it came into the family with the Princedom of Orange in 1530. Count Henry III of Nassau-Breda, who was living in the Low Countries, was married to Claudia Orange-Châlon. Her brother, Philibert of Châlon, was the last Prince of Orange from the House of Châlon. When he died in 1530, Henry's and Claudia's son René of Nassau-Breda inherited the Princedom on condition that he used the name and coat of arms of the Châlon family. History knows him therefore as René of Châlon. With this inheritance came the \"Je Maintiendrai Châlons\" motto into the Nassau family. René died in 1544 without leaving a child. His cousin William of Nassau-Dillenburg inherited all of René's lands. William became William of Orange (in English better known under his nickname William the Silent) and the founder of the House of Orange-Nassau. William first changed the motto to \"Je Maintiendrai Nassau\". Later he (or his sons) dropped the family name from the motto.\n\nThe horn from the arms of the Princedom of Orange is not used in the coat of arms of the kingdom but is part of the personal arms and flags of many members of the royal family. See for example the image of the Royal Standard of the Netherlands.\n\nThe sword and arrows originated from the Habsburg rulers.\n\nThe lion, as representing the Burgundian Netherlands, first appears as a crest on the tomb of Philip the Handsome. Later Charles V added the sword. The arrows were used, on coins etc., since the early 16th century to represent the Seventeen Provinces in the low countries under control of Charles V. In 1578, during the Eighty Years' War, the States General ordered a new great seal representing the lion, the sword and the 17 arrows combined. Although only seven provinces remained free from Spain, this seal stayed in use until 1795.\n\nAfter the completion of its forming in 1584 the Republic of the Seven United Provinces used as its arms: Or a crowned lion Gules armed and langued Azure, holding in his dexter paw a sword and in the sinister paw seven arrows tight together Azure. The colours of this version where derived from the most important of the seven provinces, the county of Holland (its arms are still in use since being adopted by the counts of Holland c. 1198).\n\nAfter c. 1668 the colours where reversed and the arms became Gules a crowned lion Or armed and langued Azure holding in his dexter paw a sword Argent hilted Or and in the sinister paw seven arrows Argent pointed and tight together Or.\n\nThe arrows symbolize the seven provinces that made up the Republic, the sword the determination to defend their liberty, and the coronet their sovereignty.\n\nIn 1795, with French help, the last Stadholder William V was forced to flee and the Batavian Republic (1795–1806) was proclaimed. At first this had no influence on the use of the arms of the former Republic. However, the following year the lion, that had served for approximately 280 years, was replaced by an allegoric image of a “Dutch maiden of Freedom”.\n\nThe replacement of the Batavian Republic with the Kingdom of Holland (1806–1810) saw the first return of the lion of the States General. Louis Napoleon Bonaparte (brother of the French Emperor Napoleon) used as King Louis I a coat of arms that quartered the Dutch lion with the French Imperial Eagle. After the emperor Napoleon abolished the Kingdom of Holland in 1810 the lion again had to leave the stage and the Imperial Eagle was the only image in use.\n\nIn 1813 the French were forced out of the Netherlands and the son of the last Stadholder, William VI / I was proclaimed 'Sovereign Prince' (1813–1815). To symbolize his new status he assumed a new coat of arms. In it the old lion with the sword and arrows made his second reappearance, now with a Royal crown upon his head. Again it was placed in de prime locations of a quartered shield (I and IV quarter). In the II and III quarter where the arms of Châlon-Orange-Geneve, the arms of Nassau (Otto) where placed on an escutcheon in the center of the shield.\n\nThe final retirement of the Republican lion came in 1815 with the establishment of the “United Kingdom of the Netherlands”. Because this new kingdom comprised not only of the lands of the former Dutch Republic but also of the former Austrian or Southern Netherlands it was also not appropriate to continue the use of the old arms. First a combination with the arms of Brabant (Sable a Lion Or, now the coat of arms of Belgium) was considered. In the end the attributes, the sword, arrows and crown, were placed in the care of his older “colleague” from Nassau to symbolize the union between the (now Royal) House of Nassau and the Netherlands. As seen above, this is still the basis of the current coat of arms.\n\nVarious versions of the Dutch Royal Arms are used by Government, the Parliament and courts. Government and its agencies generally use a simplified version of the Royal Arms without the mantle, the pavilion and the topped royal crown. This simplified Royal Arms also feature on the cover of passports, embassies and consulates. The versions used by the Legislature and its chambers shown the Royal Arms with the Royal Crown and a buckled dark-blue strap that bears the name of the Parliament or each chamber \"Staten-Generaal\" (States General), \"Eerste Kamer der Staten-Generaal\" (Senate), \"Tweede Kamer der Staten-Generaal\" (House of Representatives) in gold letters surrounding the shield.\n\nMembers of the Dutch Royal Family receive their own personalised arms which are based on the Royal Arms. For more details see (in Dutch) or (in French).\n\n\nWapens van de Nederlanden : de historische ontwikkeling van de heraldische symbolen van Nederland, België, hun provincies en Luxemburg / Hubert de Vries. Uitgeverij Jan Mets, Amsterdam, 1995\n\nWebsite: Dutch Royal House\n\nWebsite: Dutch ministry of Foreign Affairs\n\nWebsite: International Civic Heraldry\n\nWebsite: Nassau - Ottonian Line\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34198891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198891", "title": "Death and state funeral of Kim Il-sung", "text": "Death and state funeral of Kim Il-sung\n\nKim Il-sung died unexpectedly on the afternoon of 8 July 1994 at age 82. North Korea's government did not report the death for more than 34 hours after it occurred. An official mourning period was declared from 8–17 July, during which the national flag was flown at half mast throughout the country, and all forms of amusement and dancing were prohibited.\n\nPyongyang radio said that Kim had succumbed to complications arising from a stroke as a result of psychological stress. In the years prior to his death, he had been receiving treatment for diabetes as well as the hardening of arteries in his heart.\n\nOn the late morning of 8 July 1994, Kim Il-sung collapsed from a sudden heart attack. After the heart attack, his son Kim Jong-il ordered the team of doctors who were constantly at his father's side to leave, and arranged for the country's best doctors to be flown in from Pyongyang. After several hours, the doctors from Pyongyang arrived, and despite their efforts to save him, Kim Il-sung died. His death was declared thirty hours later, respecting the traditional Confucian mourning period.\n\nKim Il-sung's death resulted in nationwide mourning and a ten-day mourning period was declared by Kim Jong-il. His funeral in Pyongyang was attended by hundreds of thousands of people from all over North Korea. Kim Il-sung's body was placed in a public mausoleum at the Kumsusan Memorial Palace, where his preserved and embalmed body lies under a glass coffin for viewing purposes. His head rests on a Korean-style pillow and he is covered by the flag of the Workers' Party of Korea. Newsreel video of the funeral at Pyongyang was broadcast on several networks, and now can be found on various websites. A further mourning period lasted until the third anniversary of his death in 1997.\n\n\n\nKim Jong-il was chairman of the funeral committee. The committee also included Defense Minister O Jin-u, and Vice President Kim Yong-ju, who was Kim Il-sung's younger brother.\n\nThe funeral committee released communique regarding the funeral:\n\nThe State funeral was held on 17 July and included the observance of three minutes of silence throughout the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27975085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27975085", "title": "Eight Tigers", "text": "Eight Tigers\n\nThe Eight Tigers (), sometimes referred to as the Gang of Eight (八党/八黨), were a powerful group of eunuchs (宦官) that controlled the Chinese imperial court during the reign of the Ming Dynasty Zhengde Emperor (r. 1505-1521 CE).\n\nLed by Liu Jin, the remaining members of the coterie were Ma Yongcheng (馬永成), Gao Feng (高鳳), Luo Xiang (羅祥), Wei Bin (魏彬), Qiu Ju (丘聚), Gu Dayong (谷大用) and Zhang Yong (張永).\n\nEunuchs are castrated men who have often been used as servants in imperial and noble households, due to the belief that they would not be distracted by or a danger to women. Eunuchs were often utilized in the imperial household as harem guards and attendants. The harems were considered necessary in order to help produce a male heir, and the eunuchs were trusted protectors.\n\nBefore the Ming Dynasty, eunuchs had long been a powerful political force in China. In the Tang Dynasty, from 821 until the dynasty's end, eunuchs were \"the real power holders\". They controlled the Imperial Guard and the Palace Secretariat, chose seven out of eight emperors, and possibly killed two emperors.\n\nThe first Ming emperor, Hongwu (1328-1398), was worried about the power of eunuchs. He erected a tablet that said, \"Eunuchs must have nothing to do with administration\", and he worked to disempower them. He warned, \"Anyone using eunuchs as his eyes and ears will be blind and deaf\". Despite these measures, many of emperors who followed Hongwu were more willing to leave ruling to the eunuchs, and the Ming Dynasty became the peak of eunuch influence. By the end of the 15th century, there were 10,000 eunuchs working in the palace.\n\nIn addition to close access to the emperor and his wives and concubines, they were often trusted with imperial sons. Oftentimes this trust extended to eunuchs being given command as palace guards, military commanders, or imperial inspectors. They controlled the court's luxury workshops and managed the tributes from the provinces and foreign countries, and they were often made the heads of official missions abroad. This power gave the eunuchs many chances to become rich through graft. They also eventually controlled the secret police, which meant they could control the nation through blackmail and corruption.\n\nEmperor Zhengde ascended to the imperial throne in 1505, aged 14, after the death of his father.\n\nFrom the early days of his rule it was clear that the young emperor distrusted government officials and was partial to eunuchs who took an active role in raising him. The emperor's inner circle consisted of 8 eunuchs who served him when he was still heir apparent and became his personal staff shortly after Zhengde began his reign. Shortly after the emperor's ascension to the throne, the Eight Tigers swiftly took control of important positions not only in the imperial court but in the secret service and the army. In addition to this, they appointed their relatives to influential ranks and roles in the dynasty.\n\nOne of the eunuchs, Liu Jin, who would emerge as the leader of the group, was put in charge of palace music in early 1506, putting him in position of control over the emperor's entertainment. He excelled in this role, coming up with ideas for pastimes that proved to be much to the emperor's liking.\n\nSeveral groups within the imperial elites were alarmed with Liu Jin's promotion and the group's apparent influence over the young ruler, and so they began plotting against the Eight Tigers.\n\nThree grand secretaries, inherited from the emperor's father and supported by the ministers, demanded the group's execution, while senior eunuchs insisted on banishment as a punishment that the Emperor would be more likely to consider. A joint plan was finally agreed upon and set in motion with a direct petition to the emperor, asking for Liu Jin's execution and banishment of the other members of the group from the imperial court.\n\nLiu Jin was notified of the plot by one of his agents and led seven other eunuchs to ask for mercy before Emperor Zhengde on October 27, 1506.\n\nThe emperor heeded their plea, and on the following day it was announced that he would decide upon their fate at his leisure. All but one grand secretaries resigned immediately upon hearing the news and a number of senior officials followed suit.\n\nThe plot was averted and most checks on the eunuchs' power eliminated with it.\n\nLiu Jin proceeded to retaliate against those who spoke out against him, leading to a string of dismissals, incidents of torture and imprisonments of a number of high government figures.\n\nIn February 1507, twenty-one officials who had protested the dismissal of the senior grand secretaries were beaten and reduced to the status of commoners.\n\nBy the end of 1507 very few in the palace were willing to challenge the reign of terror of Liu Jin, who was known to many at the time as \"Emperor Liu\", and his fellow eunuchs.\n\nLiu Jin was from the area of Xingping, Shaanxi. He was born on February 28, 1451 into the Tan family. His original name was Tan Jin. He considered himself very eloquent, so he decided to become a eunuch, as he considered that his best path to success. After becoming a eunuch, he was adopted by another eunuch named Liu, and changed his name to Liu Jin.\n\nHe began working in the imperial palace in the 1480s, where he began to consolidate the group that later became the Eight Tigers. In 1492, he was removed from his post at the Chenghua emperor's tomb to serve the new heir apparent, the future Zhengde emperor. Liu became a favorite of his, and he became the head of the bureau of bells and drums after Zhengde's rise to the throne in 1505. From there, Liu Jin gradually gained more power and influence, and became known as the leader of the Eight Tigers.\n\nMost Ming and modern historians regard Liu Jin's rise to power as tyrannic and describe him as \"rapacious, cruel, and wily\". He became the Head of the Directorate of Ceremonies, in which role he was notorious for altering rescripts in transit to and from the emperor. This meant he essentially controlled what the emperor knew and what the emperor approved. Later, he became the chief of the imperial staff, and became known for taking bribes from senior officials. For example, he required the thirteen provincial administration officials to pay him 20,000 taels of silver when they visited the capital, three times a year. He also was very influential in the military. At the height of his power, all military actions had to be approved by him, giving him more power than the generals.\n\nAfter the re-establishment of the Western Depot under Gu Dayong, Liu Jin convinced the emperor to create the \"Neixinchang\", or Inner Branch Depot, which would supervise direct dangers to the throne and the emperor's safety. This Depot was made supervisor to the other two, the East and West Depots, thus consolidating Liu Jin's power. The depot persecuted many of the opponents to Liu Jin and his policies. It is estimated that more than one thousand people were killed by the Inner Branch Depot.\n\nFrom the money he gained through corruption, he went on to flaunt his glory and wealth by building a palace in his hometown.\n\nDuring the fall of his reign, officials were sent to detain him and confiscate his belongings. During the house search, the officials found a total of 12,057,800 taels of gold and 259,583,600 taels of silver, as well as gems, false seals, and fans with concealed knives, ostensibly for use in his plot against the emperor. He was ordered to be executed by the punishment of death by a thousand cuts. He was cut 3,357 times over a period of three days.\n\nZhang Yong, a native of Xincheng, Baoding, is fairly absent in historical records until his time in the Eight Tigers. During Emperor Zhengde's reign, he took control of many important posts and developed a tight bond between him and the Emperor. By doing this, he began to disregard the government's policies and plans. For instance, despite heavy opposition from the Ministry of Revenue, he successfully acquired some privatised land. He controlled the Eastern Depot, one of the secret police and intelligence operations that reported to the emperor. He also was given control of the Shen-Chi garrison, which had been established to practice with firearms. In 1510, Zhang Yong was appointed Supreme Commander of the military and sent to put down the Prince of Anhua's rebellion.\n\nDuring Liu Jin's reign, Zhang Yong was his right-hand in the battlefield and at home. He did not get along with Liu Jin, but could not be removed from power due to his military prowess. He conspired with Yang Yiqing to remove Liu Jin from power, and became the most powerful member of the remaining Eight Tiger's after Liu Jin's death.\n\nIn October 1511, he asked the emperor to allow him to select 6,000 troops from the Capital Garrison reserves to be specially trained as assault forces for times of crisis. The emperor approved the request due to his need to fight the rebel forces of Liu the Sixth.\n\nIn July 1514, Zhang Yong was put in charge of an operation to defend against Mongol invasion.\n\nHowever, after Emperor Zhengde's death, his status fell to that of a regular eunuch, and he was ordered to retire by the new emperor, Jiajing. However, by 1529 he had begun to regain some power, and was made the Grand Secretary of Integrated Divisions. He died shortly after this appointment.\n\nAfter the fall of Liu Jin, Gao Feng was made one of the new heads of the Directorate of Ceremonies, along with Wei Bin. Besides this, information on Gao Feng is limited.\n\nMa Yongcheng was from the Bazhou or Wenan area. He grew rich off of the bandit situation, accepting bribes from them so they could gain favor with the emperor. Ma Yongcheng took control of the Eastern Depot, which operated as a spy and secret police agency during the Ming dynasty.\n\nGu Dayong is known for his place at the head of the Western Depot, a secret-police style intelligence agency. Emperor Zhengde reopened it in 1506 after 25 years of dormancy, with Gu Dayong as its leader, due to his desire to have a more comprehensive intelligence agency. The Western Depot was closed down after Liu Jin's arrest, although Emperor Zhengde still considered Gu Dayong quite favorably.\n\nIn August 1511, Gu Dayong was appointed overall superintendent of military affairs, and he led a group of troops south of the capital to fight the rebel forces of the Liu brothers. As a reward for defeating the rebellion, his younger and older brothers became earls.\n\nMembers of his family assumed important positions and roles inside the dynasty. For instance, Gu Dayong's father was given the right to command the Embroidered Uniform Guard alongside Zhang Young's father.\n\nHe also worked in charitable construction projects in Peking. In 1508, he donated a large bell to the Daoist Baiyunguan (White Cloud Temple), which had built a new hall. In 1510 and 1512, he restored the Southern Park's Lingtongmiao, the Yanfasi outside of the city's western gate, and the Huguosi (so that it could house Central Asian monks). He used donations from the emperor and the imperial family to carry out these projects, which seem to have been authorized and requested by the emperor. Gu Dayong also seems to have chosen at least one of his one projects, restoring an old temple in the far Western Hills, turning it into \"a bright and glittering precinct\".\n\nAfter the death of the Zhengde Emperor, he was temporarily honored, before being banished to Nanking, where he died.\n\nHe was in charge of the Eastern Depot, but lost his job after the arrest of Liu Jin. He does not have any of his own records, but is only mentioned sometimes in biographies of the other Eight Tigers. Besides this, information on Qiu Ju is limited.\n\nWei Bin was given command of the \"san qian ying\" (三千營) garrison, which was made of 3,000 barbarians who had surrendered to the throne. Wei Bin is also known for building the Hongshangshi. He used divination to find a suitable burial place in Peking's southern suburbs, and built Hongshangshi there in 1514. The land was officially endowed by the emperor, and the temple became known as Sir Wei's Temple. It was famous for its crab-apple orchards and other unusual trees. After Liu Jin's execution, Wei Bin was made one of the heads of the Directorate of Ceremonial, along with Gao Feng. Wei Bin was made to retire upon the ascension of the Jiajing Emperor.\n\nThere is almost no available information on Luo Xiang, although it is known that he was a member of the Eight Tigers.\n\nAt the beginning of the Zhengde Emperor's reign, Liu Jin and seven other eunuchs who had served him were added to his personal staff. He ignored the advice of his grand secretaries, who told him to limit the roles of his eunuchs in government. Having been raised by eunuchs, he liked them, and, starting in 1506, he gave them important financial and military roles. He enjoyed spending time with them, practicing riding, archery, wrestling, and music. Liu Jin was responsible for palace entertainment, and \"provided dancing, wrestling matches, a menagerie of exotic animals, and of course music\". He also encouraged the Zhengde Emperor to leave the palace in disguise to explore the streets of Peking, which the emperor grew to love. He was thus disinterested in ruling his own government, so he began to leave matters of state solely to his eunuchs.\n\nSince he didn't want to deal with manners of state, he left most of the empire's affairs to the eunuchs. For instance, he needed money to implement various imperial projects, but did not want to use his personal funds, so he listened to and implemented the ideas of the Eight Tigers, which mostly meant raising new taxes.\n\nAlthough Zhengde spent all his money and time on palace entertainments, the Eight Tigers never criticized him and always obeyed his wishes, which caused him to trust them greatly. One example of this is when, in 1516, he decided he wanted to leave the imperial palace and move to Xuanhua for a more entertaining life. Since his grand secretaries and many other officials opposed this, he was prevented from doing so. On September 8, 1517, he attempted the move again, instructing Gu Dayong not to let anyone else follow him past the Juyong pass on the way to Xuanhua. Due to Gu Dayong's dutiful execution of this order, the other government officials could do nothing but wait until the emperor got bored with his new life and returned to Peking in 1518.\n\nZhengde's trust in his eunuchs transcended many attempts to remove the Eight Tigers from power. He gave them dragon robes to wear, which symbolized that they were immune to charges for any crimes they might have committed. The only real challenge to this trust manifested in the arrest of Liu Jin, who had always been his favorite, and was accomplished only with the help of all the other Eight Tigers.\n\nGovernment Control\n\nAfter the failed 1506 petition to remove the Eight Tigers from power, Liu Jin began removing anyone opposed to him from power. In March 1507, he issued an edict that made he and the other Eight Tigers equal in rank and authority to the highest provincial officials, as well as the right to investigate any administrative or judicial matter. All official documents had to be approved by him first before they could be sent to the ministries or grand secretariat. He also broke custom by sentencing officials to punishment by cangue for minor offenses, namely not acknowledging his authority, which had previously never been used on officials, and only for serious crimes. Liu Jin had control of the imperial administration in both the capital and the provinces by the summer of 1507. \n\nThe eunuchs were able to expand their roles within the palace to control the rest of the government structure. Many of these positions became available for the Eight Tigers after the governmental purge after the 1506 petition. For instance, the eunuch Director of Ceremonial usually controlled the Western or Eastern Depots, as well as the Embroidered-Uniform guard, who \"exercised almost unlimited police and governmental authority\", with a greatly feared prison.\n\nThe Depots, which were intelligence and terror organizations, were run by the Eight Tigers. Qiu Ju ran the Eastern Depot, Gu Dayong ran the Western Depot, and Liu Jin ran the Inner Branch Depot. Many suspects, including Imperial Ministers, censors, soldiers, and civilians, were arrested, beaten heavily, and sometimes killed. The Inner Branch Depot's embroidered-uniform guards conducted much of the beating and torture. Those arrested number in the several thousands. The Western and Inner Branch Depots were shut down after Liu Jin's arrest for extortion, although the emperor remained fond of Gu Dayong and contemplated reopening the Western Depot. There was too much backlash, however, and it remained closed. The Eastern Depot, on the other hand, remained operational for the next few years, under different directors, until its disbandment after Emperor Zhengde's death.\n\nWhen he was in power, Liu Jin managed to drastically change government structure in the favor of him and his fellow eunuchs, but he was aiming for much more that was never realized. He wanted to create an empire where eunuchs were the superiors of every official in every branch of government, a scale which would have been unprecedented in Chinese history. Most of his radical reforms to this end are not known, because they were rigorously opposed by the civil officials and so were never implemented.\n\nFinancial\n\nIn 1506, Liu Jin was given the task of raising revenue for the emperor. He claimed that the decline in revenues was due to mismanagement and corruption, and decided to run a general investigation and fine the ineffective officials. Liu Jin implemented many new taxes and worked against corruption and ineffectiveness of government officials. He also became known for accepting large bribes.\n\nFor example, in June 1508, Liu ordered grain inventory inspections. He dispatched secretaries and censors around China to see how much fodder and hay had been purchased, as well as if it had been changed for silver or remained in storage in the warehouses. He also targeted abuses by the local elites, punishing ineffectual officials with jail time or heavy fines paid in grain, which was then shipped to the north and west. In Fukien and Szechwan, Liu Jin added a surtax on silver mines, event though the officials had reported that there was no more silver in them. Since he gave heavy fines to officials who displeased him, many began to pay him bribes to avoid those fines.\n\nLiu Jin also implemented surveys of the military agricultural colonies, which is what eventually led to the Prince of Anhua rebellion in 1510.\n\nEarly Opposition\n\nCensor Jiang Qin objected to Liu Jin driving important officials out of office. Calling Liu Jin \"a minor servant\", he questioned why the emperor should trust Liu Jin so fully when everyone else hated and feared him. He also stated he would give his head if it meant removing Liu Jin from power. For these statements, Jiang Qin was given 30 lashes and imprisoned. Three days later, he again urged Zhengde to execute Liu Jin, but he was beaten again. Finally, after a final flogging, he died.\n\nAfter Liu Jin was appointed the head of the imperial household in June 1506, the grand secretaries were alarmed. They questioned the action but were ignored.\n\nThe first real plan to remove Liu Jin from power came from other, senior eunuchs who felt threatened by his influence. They wanted him either banished to Nanking or executed. On October 27, 1506, Han Wen, the minister of revenue, submitted a petition to the emperor, requesting that he execute the Eight Tigers. The emperor was unwilling to consider this. Minister of personal Hsu Chin warned that the emperor would not change his mind on so drastic a request, but the grand secretaries were resolute, and convinced the senior eunuchs to get the emperor to sign the petition. The court officials agreed to ask the emperor to carry out the sentence on the morning of October 28.\n\nHowever, one of Liu Chin's agents in the court told him about the plan. On the night of October 27, the Eight Tigers begged the emperor for mercy. Liu Jin told the emperor that it was all a conspiracy and that the eunuch Director of Ceremonial was cooperating with the grand secretaries to limit the emperor's power. The emperor believed Liu Jin, and removed the conspirators from their posts, designating Liu Jin as Director of Ceremonial. The rest of the Eight Tigers took over several other important eunuch agency and military positions. The deposed senior eunuchs were banished to Nanking, but were assassinated en route.\n\nOn October 28, 1506, the morning the court had agreed would be the end of the Eight Tigers, the officials realized that something was strange when they were all summoned to the morning audience. A senior official announced that the emperor had decided he would decide what to do about the Eight Tigers by himself. Almost all the grand secretaries then resigned, realizing the battle was lost, and Liu Jin accepted the resignations personally.\n\nLiu Jin went on to consolidate his control and exact revenge over those who had opposed him. He framed Han Wen for fraud, and dismissed him on December 13, 1506. In February 1507, the twenty-one senior officials who had protested the removal of the grand secretaries were beaten and given commoner status. From then on, officials who opposed Liu Jin were beaten, tortured, and dismissed.\n\nOn July 23, 1508, a group of eunuchs submitted an anonymous letter to the emperor about Liu Jin's crimes. Liu Jin thought it must have been written by an official, and began investigating them, arresting all the palace officials. He released them once he discovered a eunuch had written the letter, and then he established a security agency to investigate them. He banished the eunuchs involved to Nanking.\n\nLiu Jin raised the tax rate in Shaanxi, and he had tax delinquents arrested and beaten. This angered the soldiers in the province. The local prince, Prince Anhua, was already angry about the power of the eunuchs. He believed that they gained their positions through persuasiveness, not through any real helpfulness to the empire. Therefore, Prince Anhua decided to take the opportunity to rebel. On May 12, 1510, he held a banquet, then had the soldiers come in and kill the officials, officers, and eunuchs in attendance. He then announced he was raising an army to defeat Liu Jin. However, the rebellion only lasted 19 days before he was betrayed by one of his own cavalry commanders. Zhang Yong and Yang Yiqing, who had been dispatched to defeat the rebellion, arrived to escort the prince back to the capital for his execution.\n\nLiu Jin was not on good terms with Zhang Yong, who could not be removed from his post like Liu Jin's other enemies due to his military prowess. Liu Jin considered himself the dictator of the rest of the Eight Tigers, and often delegated the work he did not want to do to them. This attitude caused the rest of the Eight Tigers to resent him as well. This rift led to the eventual toppling of Liu Jin.\n\nBy 1510 the relations between Liu Jin and Zhang Yong have significantly deteriorated. As an inspector of the army Zhang Yong was sent to Shaanxi to oversee the suppression of the Prince of Anhua rebellion by the imperial forces. His companion during the travels was Yang Yiqing, the supreme commander of the army, who was once forced out of office by Liu Jin in 1507 and held a grudge against him. Yang Yiquing managed to convince the eunuch that Liu Jin was planning an operation that would put Zhang Yong's life in danger. He claimed that Liu Jin was planning to assassinate the emperor and put his own grand-nephew on the throne, and that the plan would begin on September 17, 1510.\n\nOn September 13, the emperor held a banquet with the Eight Tigers, and Liu Jin left first. Zhang Yong told the emperor about Liu Jiu's plan, and he and the rest of the Eight Tigers convinced him to send guards to arrest Liu Jin and confiscate his property. The emperor decided he was guilty when he saw Liu Jin's hordes of wealth.\n\nAt his trial, Liu Jin at first tried his normal tactics of controlling those who defied him. He appealed to the people who he claimed he had helped over the years, saying they owed him. When an imperial consort asked why he had so much armor hidden away if not to attack the emperor, he stopped speaking. The emperor was convinced, and Liu Jin was sentenced to death by a thousand cuts. The execution began on September 27 and lasted for 3 days. His property was taken and used to prop up the emperor's finances.\n\nThe execution of Liu Jin, which took place in 1510, greatly diminished the ability of the group to influence emperor's decisions. The system built by Liu Jin that bestowed significant authority upon the eunuchs was swiftly dismantled by the government officials after his death. However, the Zhengde emperor continued to entrust the remaining members of the Eight Tigers with authority. He still needed financial security, so he gave the eunuchs the power to take whatever supplies and labor they needed from civil officials, in order to make their jobs easier. He appointed Wei Bin and Gao Feng as the new Directors of Ceremonial, and had the rest continue to run the garrisons and surveillance agencies.\n\nAfter the death of the Zhengde emperor, many of the Eight Tigers were banished.\n\nConfucian scholars viewed the eunuchs as usurpers, as they rose to power independent of the examination system.\n\nAdditionally, the imperial censors, who sometimes criticized powerful eunuchs directly to the emperor, viewed the defeat of Liu Jin as a victory for the strength of China's empire. In 1624, censor Yang Lien implored the emperor to impeach eunuch Wei Zhongxian in a letter which said that eunuchs must be kept from interfering in anything outside palace life. He mentioned Liu Jin: \"Even such arrogant and lawless eunuchs as Wang Zhen and Liu Jin were promptly executed. Thus the dynasty lasted until today\".\n\nIn the histories, written by the Confucian scholars, eunuchs, including the Eight Tigers and especially Liu Jin, are portrayed negatively. Liu Jin is blamed for the outbreak of rebellions at the end of Emperor Zhengde's reign. In the earliest complete narrative of the 1510 rebellion, \"Rebellion Quelled at Jianghuai\", written in 1513, Wang Ao argued that Liu Jin was responsible for the rebellion, writing, \"In the early Zhengde reign, the traitorous eunuch unlawfully seized the power of the sovereign. By [his] cruel punishments and tyranny, [he] poisoned all within the seas. All within the seas was confused and in upheaval. [When] the traitorous eunuch was executed, the masses of bandits/rebels arose\". In Jianghai jianqu ji, Zhu Yunming asserted that Liu Jin's abuses pushed the empire to rebellion.\n\nOne Ming historian who portrays Liu Jin in a more positive light is Liao Xinyi in \"A Brief Study of Liu Jin's 'Change of Established Regulations\", in which he argues that the grain inventory inspections were motivated more by the need to supplement the grain of the northern and western borders than by a desire by Liu Jin to extract bribes or revenge.\n\nIn the \"Veritable Records of Wuzong\", Liu Jin is again described in a very negative way. There seems to be disagreement on his relation to the rebellions, for while it is agreed that he sometimes worked tirelessly to stop banditry, it is also sometimes claimed that he was personally linked to the bandits and supported them in their rebellions. It is true that rebellions rose along with Liu Jin's fall, but the relationship between those events is unclear.\n\nNishimura Gensho, the leading Japanese scholar of the 1510 rebellion, attributes the rebellion to the weakness of Emperor Zhengde as his court was overrun by scheming eunuchs. He claims that the extensive intelligence network run by the eunuchs caused the empire to fall into a period of panic, and that the imperial estates uprooted peasants from their land and livelihoods, lending more support to the rebellion.\n\nThe dragon cloaks worn by the emperor's chosen Eight Tigers came to symbolize great power, which was desirable to young men trying to make a career. The Eight Tigers convinced many young boys and men to become castrated, as they believed that was the path towards a successful life.\n\nOverall, the Eight Tigers add credence to the many stories told in the classical Chinese histories and in modern scholarship about how much power eunuchs had in imperial China. In a book of classical Chinese tales, the Eight Tigers and their infamy are mentioned several times. A few examples: Liu Jin, as head of the Inner Branch Depot, was powerful enough to demand that officials kneel before him and to order flogging punishments, sometimes until death. The Inner Branch Depot is infamous for arresting people numbering in the several thousands. It also mentions the Eastern Depot, calling it an \"imperial terror establishment\" and \"Gestapo-like organization\".\n\nLiu Jin is featured in several plays and novels.\n\nHang Kai, who was instrumental in Lin Jiu's removal from power, wrote many plays featuring Liu Jin, as they were both from Xinping.\n\nHowever, the most famous play with Liu Jin, Famensi (Famen Temple) became popular during the Qing Dynasty, its earliest known record in 1845. This classic Peking Opera included the lines, \"My last name is Liu, my first name is Jin… At age seven, I was castrated and entered the imperial palace two years later… I helped Emperor Zhengde ascend the throne\". In the play, Liu Jin is a painted-face role (xiahualian), whose face is painted red to indicate Liu Jin's \"rough characteristics and compelling power\".\n\nFamen Temple tells the story of a famous murder case. The murderers got away, and an innocent man was falsely accused, by Liu Jin ordered the court to be reviewed, which led to the punishment of the perpetrators. Throughout the play, he is decisive, but his decisions are backed up or checked by the Empress Dowager. The play thus portrays Liu Jin in a relatively positive light. Famen Temple is a famous classic opera, and was a favorite of Empress Dowager Cixi. It has a famous video recording from 1950 and a few famous audio recordings.\n\nAt least two novels written in the Qing dynasty feature Liu Jin in a treacherous plot. In \"Bajian qixia wuyi pingmen qianhou zhuan\" and \"Sanmenjie\", Liu Jin lures the emperor from the capital's safety to Suzhou, promising him beautiful women and scenery. Using his connections with three bandit chiefs, who have an army of ten-thousand men based in Qingzhou, Shandong, Liu Jin has the imperial entourage attacked. The emperor is saved by the bravery of a set of fraternal twins.\n\n"}
{"id": "42993566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42993566", "title": "Elisa Bailly de Vilmorin", "text": "Elisa Bailly de Vilmorin\n\nElisa Bailly de Vilmorin (3 May 1826 – 5 August 1868) was a French horticulturist and plant breeder. She was married to Louis de Vilmorin.\n"}
{"id": "49121846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49121846", "title": "Emilia Contessa", "text": "Emilia Contessa\n\nNur Indah Cintra Sukma Munsyi (born 23 September 1957 in Banyuwangi, Indonesia), commonly known as Emilia Contessa is a former Indonesian female pop singer and actress. She currently works as a politician for the Regional Representative Council, representing East Java.\n\nEmilia was born Nur Indah Cintra Sukma Munsyi in Banyuwangi on 23 September 1957 to Anna Suriani, a Javanese mother and Hasan Ali, a Pakistani-Madurese father. She is the eldest of three children of the couple.\n\nShe started singing at the age of five, her mother who understood his talent has become her manager.\n\nHer niece Maharasyi is now competing in the Voice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2539163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2539163", "title": "Esaias Boursse", "text": "Esaias Boursse\n\nEsaias Boursse (March 3, 1631 – November 16, 1672), was a Dutch painter. His paintings were mainly genre works.\n\nHe was born in Amsterdam, the youngest son of immigrants from Wallonia. His parents, Jacques Boursse and Anna des Forest, married in 1618 in Amsterdam. We know nothing more about the education of Esaias Boursse, other than the fact that he travelled to Italy in about 1650 to study the great Renaissance examples. No reminders of those examples is to be found in his work. In the past art historians have tried to place him among Rembrandt's pupils. There is no objective evidence at all to prove this though. Maybe this opinion has been inspired by the fact that the painters were neighbours in the Sint Antoniebreestraat in Amsterdam (nowadays called Jodenbreestraat, still housing the Rembrandt House Museum).\n\nBoursse's financial position will not have been good, since in 1661 he sailed with the Verenigde Oostindische Compagnie, on the ship \"Amersfoort\". It travelled to Ceylon (nowadays called Sri Lanka). Boursse drew the inhabitants, landscapes and city views, which have been preserved in an album which can be found in the print room of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam. In 1663, the painter was back in Amsterdam.\n\nIn 1672, Boursse sailed with Verenigde Oostindische Compagnie again. On November 16 he died at sea, on board the ship \"Rhenen\"\n\nThe life of Esaias Boursse is the story of a painter who could not earn a living by painting alone and therefore had to look for an alternative source of income. The fact that he was no exception is proven by the life stories of for example Jan Steen (who was also an innkeeper) and Johannes Vermeer (who was also an art dealer). A major difference though, is the fact that Steen and Vermeer had to feed and house a (large) family. Boursse seems to have remained unmarried and childless. Financially, Boursse's career was a success. He remains one of the highest paid artists in living memory.\n\nBoursse's work mainly deals with family life. Women spinning or sewing and families around a fireplace are examples of what to expect. Stylistically, his work is reminiscent of Pieter de Hooch, Quiringh van Brekelenkam and Cornelis de Man. About 28 paintings remain of his work, mostly in private collections. Works by Boursse to be found online are:\n\n\nGood examples 'in real life' (not online though) are also to be found in Museum Boijmans van Beuningen in Rotterdam, the Suermondt-Ludwig-Museum in Aachen, the Gemäldegalerie in Berlin, the Frits Lugt-collection (Fondation Custodia) in Paris and the Johannesburg Art Gallery.\n\n"}
{"id": "5250808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5250808", "title": "Fiona Russell Powell", "text": "Fiona Russell Powell\n\nFiona Russell Powell (born 2 April 1962) is a British journalist. She is best known for her series of interviews throughout the 1980s in \"The Face\" magazine. For a brief period in the mid-1980s, she performed as a member of pop group ABC in videos and onstage to support their cartoon-synth album \"How to Be a ... Zillionaire!\" (1985). She performed under the stage name \"Eden\", so she could continue with her music and style journalism at the same time.\n\nGrowing up in Dore, Sheffield, she had known ABC from their early days as an electronic three piece called Vice Versa. She joined Vice Versa very briefly after keyboard player David Sydenham left the band but, after only three rehearsals in ABC co-founder Stephen Singleton's cellar, the fourteen-year-old \"chickened out\" when she was told they would be supporting Simple Minds in a Leeds pub the following night. \n\nAfter running away from home and subsequently leaving Sheffield High School for Girls aged 15, Fiona moved to London when she was 17 and slept on Heaven 17 singer Glenn Gregory's floor before moving into the notorious Carburton Street squat where she took over Boy George's old room. Fellow squatters included 1980s singer Marilyn, DJ and Haysi Fantayzee frontman Jeremy Healy, and milliner Stephen Jones. In 1982, aged 20, she started writing for \"The Face\" as a features writer, concentrating mostly on music and became notorious for her irreverent mickey-taking interviews with leading pop stars of the day. Meanwhile, she moved into a three-bedroom council flat in Old Street with Richard Habberley, who moved out of Boy George's St John's Wood flat, and Amanda Metro, a backing singer for Mari Wilson. \n\nLater, she was part of the infamous Taboo nightclub crowd, being a close friend of Leigh Bowery and his artist partner Trojan, and introduced Mark White and Martin Fry to people in her circle including fashion designer John Galliano, punk ballet dancer Michael Clark (who was dating her flatmate Richard), film director John Maybury, DJ and S'Express pop star Mark Moore, among others. Mark Moore has since publicly acknowledged the direct influence of ABC's image circa \"How to Be a Zillionaire\".\n\nABC's Martin Fry and Mark White loved the 1970s super pimp/space tramp charity shop meets Comme des Garçons/Yohji Yamamoto look that Fiona and her friends were sporting in the spring of 1984 - they were the first to knowingly champion a retro image. Martin and Mark had written and produced the music for their third album but knew they wanted a completely new image for ABC so decided to ask Fiona to join the band and also brought in American David Yarritu. The choice of someone with such diminutive stature was deliberate: the first single 'How To Be a Millionaire' (inspired by Martin Amis's seminal 1980s book \"Money\") was accompanied by a cartoon video, modelled on The Jackson 5. The new-look ABC was pure cartoon fantasy and the two new members reflected that. Fiona was asked to dress as she had earlier that year, and while her personal image had since moved onto what became known as Sinéad O'Connor's look, so she wore wigs, platform shoes and clothes made for her by Leigh Bowery, Bodymap and Mark Spy and Murray Blewitt, who went on to design for Vivienne Westwood. The name 'Eden' was dreamt up by Fiona, Leigh Bowery and Trojan one night over a bottle of vodka in their East London flat.\n\nNeither Fiona nor David were allowed to contribute musically (although both were more than capable). The reasons were partly aesthetic and partly financial. Fake instruments were made for the band in homage to Claes Oldenburg's famous 'soft' drumkit. The aim was to be as luridly bright and Looney Tunes cartoony as possible in a purposeful comment about how infantile, money-driven and artificial the decade was becoming. It turned out to be an in-joke that backfired: British fans did not get it or like it at all, unhappy that the five lads in gold lamé suits had morphed into what one critic called 'The Addams Family'. Luckily the new look ABC went down very well in the States. Indeed, although \"How To Be a Zillionaire\" only charted in the Top 30 in the UK and 'Be Near Me' was the highest charting track off the album at No.26, by contrast it made the US \"Billboard\" Top Ten and 'Be Near Me' was a Billboard hit, a number 1 dance floor hit, a radio and MTV hit coast to coast.\n\nUnfortunately, during the time the album was rocketing up the \"Billboard\" charts, Martin Fry was extremely ill with Hodgkin's Disease, so the band could only make limited promotional appearances. Fiona continued with her journalism during the down time, writing for \"Time Out\" and \"Interview\" as well as for \"The Face\", while also spending time in New York after being adopted by the then-cognescenti, including Andy Warhol who was impressed by her cutting edge look and success in two separate fields. Although Fiona was not allowed to sing, she did contribute to ABC in that she influenced them with the people she introduced Martin and Mark to, such as the avant garde jeweller and stylist Judy Blame, who became the subject of a B-side, 'Judy's Jewels'. One of Michael Clark's dancers, Les Childs, was brought in to choreograph the group, and various up-and-coming young designers dressed the rest of the band while Leigh Bowery designed Eden's fun fur jacket and double-brimmed super-high glittery military-style cap.\n\nTwo much-talked-about Eden incidents: Eden wore a dildobelt she made on \"The Tube\", the 1980s Channel 4 live music show, which was a belt covered in 'ladyfingers' - very small white dildoes - to look like a bullet belt. The B-side of 'How To Be a Millionaire' has a track called 'A to Z' which introduces all the band members. When it gets to the girl, we hear \"Hi, I'm Eden, and I want you to kiss my snatch\" accompanied by suggestive kissing sounds. Fiona agreed that while it IS the sort of thing she would say, being well known for making provocative gestures, it's actually Martin Fry's voice speeded up and was recorded entirely without Fiona's knowledge. The reason given was that there wasn't enough time to get her into the studio. Fiona says she has since discovered that, as it was not her real voice, royalties did not have to be paid to her.\n\nAlthough many music journalists are said to be frustrated or failed rock stars, she says the reason she joined the band was because \"I thought - incorrectly as it turned out - that it would be fun. Also, it was a great opportunity to experience the music industry from the inside. Unfortunately, I discovered all too quickly why the other band members had left and cut off contact with Martin and, to a lesser extent, Mark. As Martin was very ill -something I knew absolutely nothing about until the day he turned up at the airport when we flew to LA - after we did the US TV shows, I didn't hear anything from either of them again although I was kept on the payroll for another four months. I was unceremoniously dumped when I was no longer useful. I understand that business is ruthless but we were supposed to be mates. They'd known me since the age of 14. They didn't even have the courtesy to call me, I'd served my purpose and that was that. It was depressing. Occasionally, I would bump into Mark in a club or at a fashion show but I didn't see or hear from Martin until '97 or '98 – 12 years later - when I wrote a piece for 'The Times' about the retro phenomenon and the Here and Now Tour that Martin, as ABC, was on.\"\n\nFiona Russell Powell has written for \"Loaded\" and \"Punch\", \"The Face\", BLITZ, \"i-D\", \"Evening Standard\", \"Daily Express\", \"The Idler\", \"Dazed and Confused\", \"Interview\", \"Penthouse\", \"Time Out\", \"Arena\", \"Arena Homme Plus\", \"New Humanist\", \"Woman's Journal\" and \"Fashion Weekly\" among others. She has also featured in the press on more than one occasion, having had various incidents and antics documented. In the mid to late 1990s, she frequently appeared on British television debates, such as the BBC's peaktime \"You Decide\" discussing the decriminalisation and legalisation of drugs, having previously written extensively about her own battle with Class A drugs. In 2006, Fiona was co-director (along with Patrick Lilley, who was one of the original Carburton Street squatters and founder of the \"Queer Nation Club\" in London, and Christophe Demoulin, artist's agent) of The Outsider festival, a ten-day-long arts festival curated by Angie Bowie that focussed on films, photography and club nights celebrating underground sub-culture in London and the UK since the early 1980s. The project was commissioned by Sony PSP, and was the world's first downloadable arts festival. Fiona also co-wrote \"40 Ans de Musique au Gibus\", which chronicles four decades of seminal musical acts at the famous Paris nightclub.\n\n"}
{"id": "37701107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37701107", "title": "Generación del 51", "text": "Generación del 51\n\nGeneración del 51 is a designation for one of a series of \"generations\" of Spanish composers, identifying a group born between 1924 and 1938.\n\nMembers of this group of composers from the Basque and Castilian-speaking regions of Spain include :\nIn their earlier works, members of this generation tended toward the avant-garde, with post-Webernian serialism evident in the work of Halffter and Luis de Pablo in particular. By the end of the 1970s a mellowing of their language becomes apparent, and during the 1980s many of them began to turn to tonality of one sort or another . \n\nThe Catalan members of this generation are associated with the reforming and renewing tendencies that emerged after the post-Civil War isolation (; ):\nSoler's compositional palette involves serial techniques, and he is particularly noted for his dramatic music .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3556039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556039", "title": "Jacob Arabo", "text": "Jacob Arabo\n\nJacob Arabo (born 1964) is a Bukharian-American jeweler and founder of Jacob & Company.\n\nJacob Arabo (born Yakov Arabov) emigrated with his family when he was 14 from the former Soviet Union republic of Uzbekistan to the United States. As a youngster he had an interest in his family's jewelry and time pieces. At age 16, he discontinued his formal education before completing high school and enrolled in a six-month jewelry-making course, which he graduated four months later. By the time he was 17 years old he was designing his own pieces in his own jewelry factory near New York City's diamond district.\n\nInitially selling his pieces from a kiosk in the Kaplan Jewelry Exchange (in the heart of New York City's jewelry district), by the age of 21, Arabo had officially started his own company, called Diamond Quasar, and began designing his own Jacob & Co. branded jewelry.\n\nAlthough he started out offering moderately priced, traditional jewelry, Arabo's design sense soon caught the eyes of celebrities, singers, and artists in the hip-hop and rap music world. In the early 1990s his clientele and business grew, and Arabo became known as \"Jacob the Jeweler,\" the moniker first appearing in rap songs by Jay-Z, Nas and other rappers.\n\nIn 2005 he relocated to a \"mine-inspired\" storefront on East 57th Street. The townhouse space is adorned with Arabo's signature five-time-zone watches.\n\nIn June 2006, Arabo was arrested on charges of money laundering and conspiracy in connection with the Detroit-based Black Mafia Family, as well as for not declaring large cash purchases to the IRS. In October 2007, after admitting to lying to investigators, Arabo and his attorney, Ben Brafman, entered a plea in which the more serious charges of money-laundering were dropped. In June 2008, Arabo was sentenced to two and a half years in prison, fined $50,000, and ordered to forfeit $2 million to the U.S. government. Arabo was released from jail in April 2010.\n\nJacob & Co.'s watch, \"The World is Yours\", was a 2006 \"Travel + Leisure\" Design Award winner.\n\nArabo was featured in the game \"Def Jam Fight For NY\", in which the players' hip-hop characters compete to earn cash with which they can buy jewelry from Jacob the Jeweler.\n\nArabo is well known in the entertainment industry for his unique jewelry designs and is mentioned in several hip-hop songs as \"Jacob the Jeweler\" or just \"Jacob\";\n\nArabo married his wife, Angela, when he was 24 and they live in Forest Hills, Queens, in a brick Colonial house they bought for $1.17 million in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "5761492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5761492", "title": "Jane Bunford", "text": "Jane Bunford\n\nJane Bunford (26 July 1895 – 1 April 1922) was the one of the tallest women ever measuring at the time of her death (adjusted for spinal curvature).\n\nBunford's parents were John Bunford (1856-1916) and Jinny Bunford (1857–1934) of Bartley Green, Northfield, Birmingham, UK. Her father was a metal caster. She was a quiet, shy child who enjoyed good health during the first 11 years of her life, while she was quite tall for her age, her growth rate was not unusual before her accident. In June 1906, she stood tall.\n\nIn 1906, Bunford fractured her skull after falling off her bicycle and hitting her head on the pavement. It is believed that the injury permanently damaged her pituitary gland, releasing an excess of growth hormone which sent her growth out of control. The accident also indirectly led to her death. \n\nBunford attended St. Michael's Secondary School in Bartley Green. At school she displayed a talent for embroidery, but was tormented after her accident. Also, the desks and chairs became too uncomfortable for her to sit at. As a result of both factors, Bunford's parents took her out of school close to her 13th birthday. On her 13th birthday she was measured at tall. At age 19 in 1914, she was measured at tall. On her 21st birthday Bunford was measured at tall, her peak standing height.\n\nBunford rejected several opportunities to benefit financially from her size and appearance. She had straight long auburn hair. In her final years Bunford became a recluse. She hated the attention her size brought her, and her spine developed a severe curvature. Because of this, Bunford could not stand fully erect towards the end of her life. By the end of her life, Bunford was also in pain because of joint problems and other ailments. She often baby-sat young children in the area, as a favour for neighbors. Bunford had a close friend named Emma, who was a dwarf and lived nearby.\n\nShortly before her death, Bunford was measured at tall. It was estimated that she would have been , if she had not developed the spinal curvature.\n\nBunford died at her home in Jiggins Lane on 1 April 1922. According to her death certificate, Bunford died of hyperpituitarism and gigantism.\n\nThe funeral was held at St Michaels and All Angels Church, Bartley Green, on 5 April 1922. According to undertaker's records published in \"General Practitioner\", her coffin was long and was probably the longest ever used for a UK funeral. A Mrs Booth, who knew Bunford, claimed in February 1972 that she had beautiful hair, a very deep voice but was very gentle and said no local people were allowed to enter the church. The story featured on ATV on 27 January 1972 and 14 March 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2653267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2653267", "title": "Josep Moragues i Mas", "text": "Josep Moragues i Mas\n\nJosep Moragues i Mas (; Sant Hilari Sacalm, 1669 - Barcelona, 1715) was a Catalan general during the War of the Spanish Succession. He fought on the Archduke Charles side.\n\nAfter Barcelona was defeated on September 11, 1714, he tried to sail to Majorca in order to continue the resistance against Philippist invasion, but he was betrayed and imprisoned. He was tortured and finally executed on March 27, 1715. His corpse was butchered, the head placed inside a cage which was hanged in the streets for 12 years. This was intended as a warning for those who might rebel against the new King's power.\n\nHis life has been immortalised in a new book by Alex Barnils, entitled 'General Moragues, el diable de les Guilleries' (In Catalan), which was launched on Wednesday 26 March 2014, the 299th anniversary of the eve of his execution.\n\nCatalanists regard him as a national hero, a martyr for Catalonia. As with Rafael Casanova, there are several homages and floral offerings around monuments dedicated to him during commemorations of September 11, which was instituted by Catalanists in the 19th century as the National Day of Catalonia in remembrance of the battle fought and lost by Moragues amongst others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1801986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1801986", "title": "Joseph Chilton Pearce", "text": "Joseph Chilton Pearce\n\nJoseph Chilton Pearce (January 14, 1926 – August 23, 2016) was an American author of a number of books on human development and child development and is best known for his books, \"The Crack in the Cosmic Egg\" (1971), \"Magical Child\" (1977) and \"The Bond of Power: Meditation and Wholeness\" (1981). He preferred the name \"Joe\".\n\nPearce was born January 14, 1926, in Pineville, Kentucky, US. He served in the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II. He graduated with a BA from the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, received a Master of Arts degree from Indiana University, and did post-graduate studies at Geneva Theological College in Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania.\n\nPearce taught college humanities until the mid-1960s, and thereafter devoted himself to writing and lecturing. In the following decades, he has written on themes ranging from child development, mind-heart connection and themes in spirituality, in over 12 books.\n\nHe presented the idea of the heart, or compassionate mind, as a category of brain function equal in stature to the thalamus, prefrontal cortex and lower brain. Pearce believed that active, imaginative play is the most important of all childhood activities because it cultivates mastery of one's environment, which he terms \"creative competence.\" Children denied that form of play develop feelings of isolation and anxiety. He also believed that child-parent bonding is crucial, and sees modern clinical childbirth and lack of breast feeding as obstructions to that bonding. Pearce died in August 2016 at the age of 90.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28333316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28333316", "title": "Ken Buck", "text": "Ken Buck\n\nKenneth Robert Buck (born February 16, 1959) is an American politician who is the U.S. Representative for Colorado's 4th congressional district. A Republican, he previously served as District Attorney for Weld County, Colorado. Buck was also the unsuccessful Republican challenger to Michael Bennet in the 2010 Senate race in Colorado.\n\nBuck was born in Ossining, New York in 1959. He and his two brothers were encouraged by their parents, both New York lawyers, to attend Ivy League colleges, and Buck earned his B.A. degree from Princeton University in 1981. Buck later said that the Princeton degree was \"more important to [my father] than me\". Buck played four years of football at Princeton, one year as a defensive back/punter/kicker and three years as a punter, earning All-Ivy League honors as a punter his senior year.\n\nAfter college Buck moved west and worked in Wyoming at the state legislative services office and received a J.D. degree from the University of Wyoming College of Law in 1985. He was also an instructor at the University of Denver Law School and for the National Institute for Trial Advocacy in Colorado.\n\nIn 1986, he was hired by Congressman Dick Cheney to work on the Iran-Contra investigation. Following that assignment, he worked as a prosecutor with the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington D.C.\n\nIn 1990 Buck joined the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Colorado where he became Chief of the Criminal Division. Buck was formally reprimanded and required to take ethics classes in 2001 for a meeting he had with defense attorneys about a felony case he thought should not be pursued. Only one of the three men initially indicted on felony charges was convicted, for a misdemeanor offense. Buck said he is \"not proud\" of the incident that effectively ended his career with the Justice Department, but says he felt it was \"unethical\" to prosecute such a \"weak\" case against the three men. One of the three men donated $700 to Buck's 2010 Senate campaign.\n\nBuck was elected the District Attorney for Weld County, Colorado in 2004. When he suspected that Social Security numbers were being stolen by illegal immigrants, he raided a tax service in Greeley, Colorado and seized more than 5,000 tax files. The American Civil Liberties Union sued Buck's office for violating the privacy of the service's clients and after an appeal to the Colorado Supreme Court, costing the county approximately $150,000, the raid was deemed unconstitutional. Buck has said that his time enforcing laws for the Justice Department and Weld County stoked his desire to become a lawmaker himself.\n\nDuring the 2010 Senate race, \"The Colorado Independent\" ran an article entitled \"Suspect in 2005 Buck rape case said he knew it was rape,\". The article, about a case Buck refused to prosecute in 2006, included a complete transcript of a tape between the victim and her attacker, including the following dialogue:\n\nThe tape, which Greeley police had the victim record during their investigation, was available before Buck made his decision not to prosecute the woman's admitted rapist.\n\nAccording to a following article in the \"Independent\", \"Buck's refusal to prosecute 2005 rape case reverberates in U.S. Senate race,\" the reporter provides a transcript of another tape of a conversation between the woman and Buck, in which \"Buck appears to all but blame her for the rape and tells her that her case would never fly with a Weld County jury.\"\n\n\"A jury could very well conclude that this is a case of buyer's remorse,\" he told the \"Greeley Tribune\" in 2006.\n\n\"That comment made me feel horrible,\" the victim told the \"Colorado Independent\" in 2010. \"The offender admitted he did it, but Ken Buck said I was to blame. Had he (Buck) not attacked me, I might have let it go. But he put the blame on me, and I was furious. I still am furious,\" she said.\n\nAccording to the \"Independent\", \"A man entered the alleged victim's apartment and had sex with her while she was drunk, she says. As she passed in and out of consciousness, she says she told him \"no\" and tried to push him away. If he had been a stranger, the case may have played out differently, but he was a former lover, and she had invited him over.\"\n\nIn the meeting that she recorded, Buck said, \n\nIt appears to me ... that you invited him over to have sex with him,\" and that he thought she might have wanted to file rape charges to retaliate against the man for some bad feeling left over from when they had been lovers more than a year earlier. According to the \"Independent\", \"Buck also comes off on this tape as being at least as concerned with the woman's sexual history and alcohol consumption as he is with other facts of the case.\n\nDrawing on Buck's abortion stance, the \"Independent\" also points out that \n\nThe suspect in this case had claimed that the victim had at one point a year or so before this event become pregnant with his child and had an abortion, which she denies, saying she miscarried. The suspect's claim, though, is in the police report, and Buck refers to it as a reason she may be motivated to file charges where he thinks none are warranted.\n\nAngered by what he later called the nation's \"lurch to the left, Buck announced his plans to run for U.S. senator on April 28, 2009. In his first run for state-wide office, Buck frequently referenced national issues in defining his goals as a U.S. senator. Among these were his opposition to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Troubled Asset Relief Program (a program of federal economic stimulus initiated under President George W. Bush and finalized under President Barack Obama) and the role of federal policy czars. Buck also stressed mounting governmental debt, an issue to which he was to frequently return throughout the primary campaign. Buck, contrasting himself to what he argued was the \"top down\" style of early Republican favorite Lieutenant Governor Jane Norton, also pledged a \"bottom-up\" campaign that would include visits to each of Colorado's 64 counties.\n\nInitially Norton was seen to have had a nearly insurmountable advantage against \"a band of underfunded unknowns\" that included Buck, who early in the primary season was called \"a dead-in-the-water Republican U.S. Senate candidate with laughable fundraising totals and little establishment GOP support\". Norton's staff at the beginning of the campaign was twice the size of Buck's. He attempted to make a virtue of his meager war chest by positioning \"himself as the small-money underdog\" in an election cycle that saw a \"populist push for outsider candidates to upset the Washington establishment\".\n\nAfter receiving nearly $600,000 in a television advertising support from Americans for Job Security and a victory in March at the state party's caucuses, Buck began to receive endorsements and notice. By late spring of 2010, Colorado had highly competitive Republican and Democratic primaries.\n\nAlthough Buck positioned himself as the candidate for the Tea Party movement during the Republican primary, he stirred controversy at times with remarks critical of former Rep. Tom Tancredo, a Tea Party favorite, and the statement \"Will you tell those dumbasses at the Tea Party to stop asking questions about birth certificates while I'm on the camera?\" – a reference to those suspicious of President Barack Obama's place of birth. Buck blamed the comments on his exhaustion and frustration after months of campaigning, and on his exasperation that it was difficult to keep campaign debate focused on the issue of mounting governmental debt. Tea Party leader Lu Busse criticized Buck's \"choice of words\" and inclination to treat all Tea Party adherents as a uniform group.\n\nBuck again stirred controversy by suggesting voters should cast their votes for him over Norton because, unlike his female competitor, \"I do not wear high heels.\" Buck later stated that he was responding to Norton's television ad claiming he was not \"man enough\" to attack her himself.\n(According to mass email, sent on behalf of Senator Jim DeMint, it was a joking paraphrase of his opponent's suggestion to vote for her, \"because I wear high heels\").\n\nMaking reference to Buck's mandatory ethics classes, Norton argued that she \"didn't need an ethics class to know what's right. ... Ken broke the rules, and the facts speak for themselves.\" After Buck's former supervisor, then-U.S. Attorney John Suthers, endorsed Norton, the Colorado Democratic Party Chair called for Buck's resignation from his Weld County post because of his \"career bypassing justice and ethics to reward political allies and campaign contributors\".\n\nOn August 10, Buck defeated Norton in the Republican primary election by a 52% to 48% margin, the end of \"a bitterly contested primary that saw him go from an obscure and cash-starved underdog to a gaffe-prone mascot for anti-establishment conservatives [in Colorado] and nationally.\"\n\nIn the November general election, Buck was defeated by Senator Michael Bennet, 48.1% to 46.4%.\n\nOn August 19, 2013, Buck emailed supporters and announced that the lymphoma he had been diagnosed with was in remission following treatment and he would run against Senator Mark Udall in 2014. He had already filed to run on August 7, 2013, before he sent out the email. In March 2014, Buck withdrew from the race following the entrance of Rep. Cory Gardner, and decided to run for Gardner's House seat instead.\n\nBuck won the Republican primary, defeating three other candidates, with 44% of the vote and proceeded to win the general election, defeating Democratic nominee Vic Meyers with 65% of the vote.\n\nHe is a member of the Freedom Caucus.\n\n\n\nBuck voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Buck believes the bill is \"fairer for American families\" and that it will \"keep more jobs in America.\" He also says that it will simplify the tax code, when the process has been recognized as not being simpler than current tax filing processes.\n\nBuck supports a revamp of the Department of Education and questions the department's constitutionality. Buck supports gun rights and is endorsed by Gun Owners of America. He stated that he would \"oppose any federal legislation to compile a database of gun owners or to further proscribe Americans' freedoms under the Second Amendment\". He also stated that if elected to the Senate he would never raise taxes.\n\nIn an October, 2010 meeting with supporters in Fort Collins, Colorado, Buck endorsed the views of Senator James Inhofe, saying \"Sen. Inhofe was the first person to stand up and say this global warming is the greatest hoax that has been perpetrated. The evidence just keeps supporting his view, and more and more people's view, of what's going on.\" According to a Buck spokesman, \"Ken believes there is global warming but thinks the evidence points to it being natural rather than man-made.\"\n\nHe opposes the health care reform laws that were enacted in 2010. He instead favors free market-based reforms. His campaign website states, \"We need to let the market work, make people responsible for their own insurance, and restore Americans' freedom to decide for themselves whether and how much insurance to buy.\" He supported a state constitutional amendment that would give rights to unborn fetuses, but then later withdrew his support reportedly after he found out that the measure would have restricted certain fertility and contraception procedures.\n\nBuck proposed privatizing Veterans Administration hospitals so they would \"be better run\". Three months later, Buck changed positions and his campaign said, \"... while Buck does indeed believe that private sector providers might do a better job than the VA in delivering health care to veterans, he is not in favor of fully privatizing health care for veterans.\"\n\nBuck supports the U.S. military's \"Don't ask, don't tell\" policy. He said, \"I do not support the repeal of don't ask don't tell. I think it is a policy that makes a lot of sense.\" Buck believes that being gay is a choice. He said, \"I think birth has an influence over it, like alcoholism ... but I think that basically you have a choice.\" The Log Cabin Republicans have rebuked him for this comment.\n\nBuck signed his support for Ajit Pai's motion to abolish Net-Neutrality, alongside 106 other Republican representatives. When asked about Pai's work to unravel net neutrality rules, Buck said: \"I support Chairman Pai's efforts to free internet providers from burdensome regulations that stifle innovation and increase costs for Coloradans.\"\n\nBuck opposes abortion, including in cases of rape and incest, but makes exceptions if the mother's life is in danger.\n\nBuck married his Princeton girlfriend in 1984, and they divorced in 1994. His mother introduced him to his current wife, Perry Lynn Buck, after meeting her at a gathering for antiques collectors; they married in 1996. Formerly a successful banker and businesswoman, Perry Buck had \"given up much of her professional life\" to support her husband in his Senate campaign. He has two children from his first marriage. Son Cody (born 1988) is a 2011 graduate of the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York. Daughter Kaitlin (born 1991) received college credit to work on her father's 2010 Senate campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "570125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570125", "title": "Kirk Gibson", "text": "Kirk Gibson\n\nKirk Harold Gibson (born May 28, 1957) is an American former professional baseball player and manager. He is currently a broadcaster for the Detroit Tigers. As a player, Gibson was an outfielder who batted and threw left-handed. He spent most of his career with the Detroit Tigers but also played for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Kansas City Royals, and Pittsburgh Pirates. Gibson is currently a color commentator for the Detroit Tigers on Fox Sports Detroit.\n\nA fierce competitor, Gibson is perhaps best known for two dramatic home runs in the World Series, each of them off a relief pitcher who would end up in the Baseball Hall of Fame. With the Tigers, he clinched the 1984 World Series with a three-run homer off Goose Gossage, who had refused to walk him with a base open. While with the Dodgers, Gibson was named the National League MVP in 1988. In game 1 of the 1988 World Series, Gibson faced heralded closer Dennis Eckersley and hit a pinch-hit walk-off home run—often described as one of the most exciting and iconic moments in World Series history. He was named to the All-Star team twice, in 1985 and 1988, but declined the invitation both times. He announced his retirement from baseball in August 1995.\n\nFollowing his retirement as a player, he spent five seasons as a television analyst in Detroit, then became a coach for the Tigers in 2003. He became the Diamondbacks' bench coach in 2007, and was promoted to interim manager in 2010 following the midseason dismissal of A. J. Hinch. On October 4, 2010, the Diamondbacks removed the \"interim\" label, naming Gibson their manager for the 2011 season. Gibson served as the Diamondbacks' manager until September 26, 2014.\n\nGibson was born in Pontiac, Michigan on May 28, 1957, grew up in Waterford, Michigan (attending Waterford Kettering High School), and attended Michigan State University where he was an All-American wide receiver in football. Gibson's college football career was distinguished by leading the Spartans to a tie for the Big Ten title, setting school and conference receiving records, starring in the Hula Bowl and Senior Bowl and making several All-America teams. For his accomplishments on the football field, Gibson was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in January 2017.\n\nIt was at the suggestion of Spartan football coach Darryl Rogers that Gibson played collegiate baseball. Gibson played only one year of college baseball, but managed to hit .390 with 16 homers and 52 RBIs in 48 games. He was drafted by both the Detroit Tigers baseball team (1st round) and the St. Louis Cardinals (now the Arizona Cardinals) football team (7th round). He chose baseball.\n\nGibson played as the regular right fielder for the Detroit Tigers from 1983 to 1987. He helped the Tigers win the 1984 World Series. He became a free agent after the 1985 season, but received no significant offers, due to what was later determined to be collusion among the owners of MLB teams. He re-signed with the Tigers, and in 1987 helped them to win the American League East by one game over the Blue Jays in an enthralling divisional race. However, Detroit lost the 1987 American League Championship Series to the eventual World Champion Twins.\n\nEarly in his career, Gibson was proclaimed by manager Sparky Anderson to be the next Mickey Mantle. Anderson later apologized and said that probably put too much pressure on a young and inexperienced Gibson. Nevertheless, Gibson was considered a versatile power/speed player in the 1980s who was able to hit home runs as well as steal bases. He finished in the top 10 in home runs 3 times in his career and ranked in the top 10 in stolen bases 4 times. He fell one home run short of becoming the first Tiger in the 30–30 club in 1985.\n\nGibson was known for hitting clutch home runs. In the eighth inning of Game 5 of the 1984 World Series between the Tigers and Padres, he faced Goose Gossage, one of the game's premier relievers, with Detroit up 5–4 and runners on second and third with one out. An intentional (or at least semi-intentional) walk seemed to be in order, especially since Gibson had already homered earlier in the game. But Gossage told San Diego manager Dick Williams he thought he could strike him out. Indeed, Gossage had struck out Gibson in his very first Major League at-bat in 1979 on 3 pitches, and Kirk had only managed one bunt-single against Gossage in 10 previous plate appearances. Gossage later said he had told teammate Tim Lollar in the second inning, \"I own him\", when asked about Gibson. If the Padres could hold the Tigers and score a couple in the ninth, they would force the Series back to San Diego, and maybe turn the tide. In the \"Sounds of the Game\" video, Detroit manager Sparky Anderson was seen yelling at Gibson from the dugout, \"He don't want to walk you!\", showing four fingers then making a bat-swinging motion, the universal baseball gesture for \"swing away.\" Gibson got the message, and launched Gossage's 1–0 fastball deep into Tiger Stadium's right field upper deck for a three-run homer, icing the game and the Series for the Tigers.\n\nIn the ESPN interview with Gossage and Williams that aired after the 2008 Hall of Fame inductions, Williams took responsibility for the situation, as he allowed Gossage to talk him into pitching to Gibson. At the same time, Williams ribbed Gossage that Gibson's home run damaged several seats, \"in consecutive rows.\"\n\nIn 1988, an arbitrator ruled that baseball team owners had colluded against the players in an effort to stem free agency. He granted several players, including Gibson, immediate free agency. Gibson signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nGibson joined the Dodgers in 1988, and immediately brought a winning attitude after a publicized blow-up when pitcher Jesse Orosco put shoe black in his cap during a spring training prank. Gibson openly criticized the team, which had finished 4th in the NL West the previous season, for its unprofessionalism. He became the team's \"de facto\" leader, and won a controversial NL MVP award after batting .290 with 25 home runs, 76 RBIs, 106 runs, and 31 stolen bases. While he didn't lead the league in any major category, the intensity and leadership he brought to an increasingly successful team likely won him the award over players with more impressive statistics. (MVP runner-up Darryl Strawberry of the New York Mets, for example, led the NL with 39 home runs that season.)\n\nIn the 1988 National League Championship Series against the New York Mets, Gibson made an improbable catch in left field at a rain-soaked Shea Stadium in Game 3. Racing back, he slipped on the wet grass and, while on his way down with his knees on the ground and the rest of his body suspended, reached out and made a full extension catch to save a potential Mookie Wilson double; however, the Dodgers lost the game 8–4. In Game 4, his solo home run in the top of the 12th proved to be the winning hit. In Game 5, he hit a two-out three-run homer in the fifth; the Dodgers ended up winning the game 7–4. Nonetheless, his LCS heroics served as but a prelude to the career-defining moment that awaited him in the subsequent World Series.\n\nGibson is perhaps best known for his one and only plate appearance in the 1988 World Series against the Oakland Athletics. Having injured both legs during the NLCS, Gibson was not expected to play at all. In Game 1, however, with the Dodgers trailing by a score of 4–3, Mike Davis on first base, and two out in the ninth inning, manager Tommy Lasorda unexpectedly inserted his hobbled league MVP as a pinch hitter. Gibson, limping back and forth between a pulled left hamstring and a swollen right knee, made his way to the plate to face Oakland's future Hall of Fame closer Dennis Eckersley. Gibson quickly got behind in the count 0–2, but laid off a pair of outside pitches that were called balls. He then kept the count at 2–2 by fouling off a pitch. On the 7th pitch of his at bat, a ball, Davis stole second. With an awkward, almost casual swing, Gibson used pure upper-body strength—and according to Gibson, advanced scouting-based knowledge of what the pitcher would likely throw with that count—to smack a 3–2 backdoor slider over the right-field fence. He hobbled around the bases and pumped his right fist as his jubilant teammates stormed the field. The Dodgers won the game, 5–4, and would go on to win the World Series, four games to one.\n\nIn 1991, Gibson signed as a free agent with the Kansas City Royals, and then in 1992 he was traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates. He retired from baseball temporarily, after being released by the Pirates on May 5, 1992. A month later, Gibson got an offer to return to Detroit—not with the Tigers, but to play football again, with the Arena Football League's Detroit Drive; he declined the offer. The following spring, Sparky Anderson convinced him to return to baseball. He spent the final three years of his career (1993–1995) back with the Detroit Tigers, including a renaissance season in 1994 when he slugged 23 homers.\n\nHe was a Detroit Tigers television analyst on FSN Detroit for five seasons, from 1998–2002.\n\nOn February 10, 2015, it was announced that Gibson will return as a color commentator for the Detroit Tigers on Fox Sports Detroit, along with former teammate Jack Morris.\n\nIn 2003, he was named the Tigers' bench coach by new Tigers manager and former Tigers teammate Alan Trammell. He served in that position until the midway point of the 2005 season when he was moved from bench coach to hitting coach, swapping positions with Bruce Fields. As of the start of the 2007 Major League Baseball season, Gibson became the new Arizona Diamondbacks bench coach.\n\nGibson had worn #23 as a player in both football at Michigan State and baseball throughout his career. However, while coaching for the Tigers, he wore #22 after #23 was retired for Willie Horton. Gibson wore #23 as manager for the Arizona Diamondbacks.\n\nOn July 1, 2010, the Arizona Diamondbacks fired A. J. Hinch as manager and promoted Gibson from his position as bench coach to interim manager. Shortly after the season, Gibson was named permanent manager and given a two-year contract. In his first full year as manager, Gibson led the Diamondbacks to their first N.L. West title since 2007, when most sports writers expected them to be in last place for the third time in a row. He was named NL Manager of the Year on November 16, 2011. On September 26, 2014 the Arizona Diamondbacks fired Gibson, effectively ending his four-year tenure with the team. He finished his Diamondbacks career with a 353–375 regular season and 2–3 post–season record.\n\nGibson married JoAnn Sklarski on December 22, 1985, in a double ceremony where Tiger pitcher Dave Rozema married JoAnn's sister Sandy. They were married at Grosse Pointe Memorial Church in Grosse Pointe Farms, Michigan. The Gibsons reside in Grosse Pointe, Michigan, and have four children: Colleen, Cam, Kirk, and Kevin. Gibson's son Cam was drafted by the Detroit Tigers in the 5th round, 160th overall, in the 2015 Major League Baseball draft. His son Kevin is a defenseman for the Toledo Walleye in the ECHL.\n\nGibson set an aviation record in 1987. He flew a Cessna 206 to a height of 25,200 feet in Lakeland, Florida. The record was certified by the National Aeronautic Association.\n\nHe was nominated for induction into the College Football Hall of Fame multiple times before being elected in 2017.\n\nGibson is an avid deer hunter. He and former teammate David Wells, along with former MLB pitcher Jake Peavy, own a 1,300 acre hunting ranch near Millersburg, Michigan, which they named the \"Buck Falls Ranch\". On April 28, 2015, it was announced that Gibson was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "10323096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10323096", "title": "List of Dove Award winners", "text": "List of Dove Award winners\n\nThis is a list of artists who have won a Dove Award by the Gospel Music Association. The award was known as the GMA Music Award from 2004 to 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "567669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567669", "title": "List of members of the Académie française", "text": "List of members of the Académie française\n\nThis is a list of members of the Académie française (French Academy) by seat number. The primary professions of the academicians are noted. The dates shown indicate the terms of the members, who generally serve for life. Some, however, were \"excluded\" during the reorganisations of 1803 and 1816 and at other times.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39355738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39355738", "title": "Marina Baura", "text": "Marina Baura\n\nMarina Baura (born November 1, 1941) is a former Venezuelan telenovela actress.\n\nBorn as Julia Pérez in Galicia, Spain, she moved with her parents and brother Jesús to Venezuela when she was 15 years old, in 1956. She started her professional career in the early 1960s as a model in \"El Show de Renny\", a popular variety show hosted by Renny Ottolina and aired on Radio Caracas Televisión.\n\nShe later studied dramatic art under the direction of Paul Antillano, and made her debut in the Venevisión TV-series \"Casos y cosas de casa\". After that she worked with Simón Díaz in his comedy sitcom \"La Quinta de Simón\", while playing small roles in several telenovelas.\n\nBaura received her first leading role in \"Lucecita\" (1967), which drew favorable reviews with her performance as the lead character. She then became a leading actress in a number of productions, including \"La señorita Elena\" (1967), \"Rosario\" (1968), \"Lisa, mi amor\" (1969) and \"De turno con la angustia\" (1969), before returning to RCTV as an actress in 1970.\n\nWhile at RCTV, Baura starred in several telenovelas such as \"Cristina\" (1970), \"La virgen ciega\" (1970), and specially in \"La usurpadora\" (1971), where she played a significant dual role. She also starred in \"La italianita\" (1973), \"La indomable\" (1974), and \"Valentina\" (1975), where she played her second double role.\n\nOther of her contributions were \"Resurrección\" (1977), \"Silvia Rivas divorciada\" (1977), \"TV Confidencial\" (1977), \"Mabel Valdez, periodista\" (1978), \"Natalia de 8 a 9\" (1980), \"Chao Cristina\" (1983) and \"Muros del silencio\" (1983).\n\nIn 1974 RCTV aired \"Doña Bárbara\", based on \"the novel\" by Rómulo Gallegos and scripted by José Ignacio Cabrujas. Baura was selected to play the central role, previously established by María Félix in the classic 1943 film. The RCTV version was the first color TV program made in Venezuela, as well as the first telenovela aired in Europe.\n\nDuring the same period, she starred in miniseries based on Gallegos' novels as \"Canaima\" (1976) and \"Sobre la misma tierra\" (1976), as well as in Guillermo Meneses' \"La Balandra Isabel llegó esta tarde\" (1978). Later she co-starred with Doris Wells in Gallegos' \"La hora menguada\" (1984).\n\nBaura voluntarily retired in 1984. Eventually, she returned to acting in 1990 at the invitation of Cabrujas to embody the central role of Emperatriz Jurado in \"Emperatriz\", produced by Marte TV and aired by RCTV. Then, in 2003 she made a special guest appearance in the successful Venevisión soap opera \"Cosita Rica\".\n\nHer film credits include \"Yo, el gobernador\" (1965), co-starred by humorist Joselo, and \"El reportero\" (1968), teaming up along with Amador Bendayán. She later played a supporting part for Amparo Rivelles and Julio Alemán in \"La viuda blanca\" (1970), and co-starred with José Bardina in \"Bodas de papel\".\n\nBaura married Hernán Pérez Belisario, with whom she had one daughter, Mónica Pérez Pérez before retiring from RCTV. They divorced in 1992.\n\nShe currently lives in Caracas.\n"}
{"id": "39483769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39483769", "title": "Marisa Sartika Maladewi", "text": "Marisa Sartika Maladewi\n\nMarisa Sartika Maladewi, born June 28, 1993 in Yogyakarta, is an Indonesian beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Puteri Indonesia 2013 1st Runner-up and represented her country at the Miss International 2013 pageant.\n\nMarisa is a student agribusiness at Sriwijaya University.\n\nMarisa competed as the representative of South Sumatera. She won the title Puteri Indonesia Lingkungan 2013 or the 1st Runner-up title.\n\nAs the 1st Runner-up of Puteri Indonesia 2013, Marisa represented Indonesia at the Miss International 2013. But she failed at the pageant.\n\n"}
{"id": "248333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248333", "title": "Mikhail Sholokhov", "text": "Mikhail Sholokhov\n\nMikhail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov (; – February 21, 1984) was a Soviet/Russian novelist and winner of the 1965 Nobel Prize in Literature. He is known for writing about life and fate of Don Cossacks during the Russian Revolution, the civil war and the period of collectivization, primarily the famous \"And Quiet Flows the Don\".\n\nSholokhov was born in Russia, in the \"land of the Cossacks\" – the Kruzhilin hamlet, part of stanitsa Vyoshenskaya, in the former Administrative Region of the Don Cossack Army.\n\nHis father, Aleksander Mikhailovich (1865–1925), was a member of the lower middle class, at times a farmer, cattle trader, and miller. Sholokhov's mother, Anastasia Danilovna Chernikova (1871–1942), the widow of a Cossack, came from Ukrainian peasant stock (her father was a peasant in the Chernihiv oblast). She did not become literate until a point in her life when she wanted to correspond with her son.\n\nSholokhov attended schools in , Moscow, Boguchar, and Veshenskaya until 1918, when he joined the Bolshevik side in the Russian civil war at the age of 13. He spent the next few years fighting in the civil war.\n\nSholokhov began writing at 17. He completed his first literary work, the short story \"The Birthmark\" at 19.\n\nIn 1922 Sholokhov moved to Moscow to become a journalist, but he had to support himself through manual labour. He was a stevedore, stonemason, and accountant from 1922 to 1924, but he also intermittently participated in writers' \"seminars\". His first published work was a satirical article, \"The Test\" (Oct. 19, 1923).\n\nIn 1924 Sholokhov returned to Veshenskaya and devoted himself entirely to writing. In the same year he married Maria Petrovna Gromoslavskaia (1901 -1992), the daughter of Pyotr Gromoslavsky, the ataman of village; they had two daughters and two sons.\n\nHis first book \"Tales from the Don\", a volume of stories about his native region during World War I and the Russian Civil War, largely based on his personal experiences, was published in 1926. The story \"Nakhalyonok\", partially based on his own childhood, was later made into a popular film.\n\nIn the same year Sholokhov began writing \"And Quiet Flows the Don\", which earned the Stalin Prize and took him fourteen years to complete (1926–1940). It became the most-read work of Soviet fiction and was heralded as a powerful example of socialist realism, and it earned him the 1965 Nobel Prize in Literature. It deals with the experiences of the Cossacks before and during World War I and the Russian Civil War.\n\n\"Virgin Soil Upturned\", which earned the Lenin Prize, took 28 years to complete. It was composed of two parts: \"Seeds of Tomorrow\" (1932) and \"Harvest on the Don\" (1960), and reflects life during collectivization in the Don area.\n\nThe short story \"The Fate of a Man\" (1957) was made into a popular Russian film.\n\nHis unfinished novel \"They Fought for Their Country\" is about World War II fighting in the USSR (in Russia the Soviet-German war during World War II is commonly referred to as the Great Patriotic War).\n\nDuring World War II Sholokhov wrote about the Soviet war efforts for various journals. He also covered the devastation caused by Nazi troops along the Don. His mother was killed when Veshenskaya was bombed in 1942.\n\nSholokhov's collected works were published in eight volumes between 1956 and 1960.\n\nSholokhov was accused of plagiarizing \"And Quiet Flows the Don\", which had made his international reputation. Several other writers have been proposed as the 'original' author, although Fyodor Kryukov, a Cossack and Anti-Bolshevik who had died in 1920 has emerged as the leading candidate.\n\nBecause of the accusations, which started in 1928, Sholokhov asked \"Pravda\" newspaper to prove his authorship. He submitted his manuscripts of the first three volumes of \"And Quiet Flows the Don\" and the plan of the fourth one. In 1929 a special commission was formed that accepted Sholokhov's authorship. In the conclusion signed by four experts, the commission stated that there was no evidence of plagiarism on the one hand, and on the other hand the manuscripts' style was close to that of Sholokhov's previous book, \"Tales from the Don\".\n\nThe allegations resurfaced in the 1960s with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn as a notable proponent, possibly in retaliation for Sholokhov's scathing opinion of Solzhenitsyn's novella \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\".\n\nIn 1984 Norwegian Slavicist and mathematician Geir Kjetsaa, in a monograph written with three other colleagues, provided statistical analyses of sentence lengths showing that Mikhail Sholokhov was likely the true author of \"And Quiet Flows the Don\",\n\nThe debate focused on the published book, because Sholokhov's archive was destroyed in a bomb raid during the Second World War and no manuscript material or drafts were known. 143 pages of the manuscript of the 3rd & 4th books were later found and returned to Sholokhov; since 1975, they have been held by the Pushkin House in St Petersburg. Then, in 1987, several hundred pages of notes and drafts of the work were discovered, including chapters excluded from the final draft. The writing paper dates back to the 1920s: 605 pages are in Sholokhov's own hand, and 285 are transcribed by his wife, Maria, and sisters. Sholokhov had had his friend Vassily Kudashov, who was killed in the war, look after it. Following Kudashov's death, his widow took possession of the manuscript, but she never disclosed her ownership. The manuscript was finally obtained by the Institute of World Literature of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 1999 with assistance from the Russian government.\n\nIn 1999 the Russian Academy of Science carried out an analysis of the manuscript and came to the conclusion that \"And Quiet Flows the Don\" had been written by Sholokhov himself. A lengthy analysis by Felix Kuznetsov of the creative process visible in the papers provides detailed support for Sholokhov's authorship.\n\nSholokhov met Joseph Stalin in 1930 and must have made a good impression, because he was one of very few people who could give the dictator a truthful account of what was happening in the country without risk to himself. In the 1930s he wrote several letters to Stalin from his home in Veshenskaya about the appalling conditions in the \"kolkhozes\" and \"sovkhozes\" along the Don, requesting assistance for the farmers. In January 1931, he warned: \"Comrade Stalin, without exaggeration, conditions are catastrophic!\" On 4 April 1933, he sent a long letter in which, among many other details, he named two OGPU officers whom he accused of torturing prisoners from his district. Stalin reacted by sending a senior official, Matvei Shkiryatov, to investigate. The two officers were arrested and sentenced to death; their sentences were later revoked, but they were banned from working in Sholokhov's home village. Stalin also arranged for extra food to be sent to Veshenskaya and the neighbouring district.\n\nSholokhov joined the CPSU in 1932, and in 1937 he was elected to the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. In August 1937, his best friend, the secretary of the Veshenskaya party committee, P.K. Lugovoi, was arrested. Sholokohov was due to take part in an international writers' conference, but he refused to leave the country while Lugovoi was being held. Stalin sent another official, Vladimir Stavsky, to investigate, and invited Sholokhov to visit him in the Kremlin. After their meeting, on 4 November 1937, Lugovoi and two other prisoners on whose behalf Sholokhov had interceded were released, but in a subsequent letter to Stalin, he complained that the people responsible for wrongfully arresting them had not been punished.\n\nOn a visit to Moscow in 1938, Sholokhov met Yevgenia Yezhova, wife of Nikolai Yezhov, the chief of police, and checked into a hotel room with her, unaware that the room was bugged. Yezhov heard the recording and attacked Yezhova. On 23 October 1938, Sholokhov met Stalin in the Kremlin to complain that he had been put under surveillance in Veshenskaya, but when Yezhov was summoned to explain, he claimed not to know why. They met again on 31 October: this time the officer who had been investigating Sholokhov was also summoned. He said his orders had come from Moscow, but Yezhov again denied giving the order. Sholokhov claimed that he completed the fourth and last volume of \"And Quiet Flows the Don\" and its sequel on 21 December 1939, the day when the USSR was celebrating what was supposedly Stalin's 60th birthday, and celebrated by opening a bottle of wine that Stalin had given him. He then wrote to Stalin to say how he had marked the special day.\n\nIn 1959 he accompanied Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev on a trip to Europe and the United States. He became a member of the CPSU Central Committee in 1961, Academician of the USSR Academy of Sciences in 1939, and was a member of the USSR Supreme Soviet. He was twice awarded the title of Hero of Socialist Labor, and later became vice president of the Union of Soviet Writers.\nAn asteroid in main-belt is named after him, 2448 Sholokhov.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35743545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35743545", "title": "Mira Lesmana", "text": "Mira Lesmana\n\nMira Lesmana (born 8 August 1964) is an Indonesian film director, producer and songwriter. She is best known as the founder of Miles Films, previously Miles Productions, which she co-manages with Indonesian filmmaker Riri Riza. Through Miles Films, she has produced several critically and commercially successful films, including \"Petualangan Sherina\" (\"Sherina's Adventure\"; 2000), \"Ada Apa dengan Cinta?\" (\"What's Up with Love?\"; 2002), \"Gie\" (2005), and \"Laskar Pelangi\" (\"The Rainbow Troops\"; 2008).\n\nLesmana was born in Jakarta to musician Jack Lesmana and his wife Nien. Her younger brother is jazz pianist Indra Lesmana. At the age of five, she entered kindergarten at Cikini School; her primary and middle school education were conducted at the same institution. As a child, Lesmana wanted to be either a scientist or detective, and was often at the top of her class. She later recalled that seeing George Lucas' \"\" (1977) \"blew [her] off [her] feet\" and may have inspired her to go into film making.\n\nAt the age of 16, Lesmana wrote her first song, which her brother Indra used to gain a scholarship to a music school in Australia. As Indra was still a teenager, the family moved to Australia with him in 1979. Lesmana continued her education there; although she had previously studied English in Indonesia, she found difficulty with the Australian accent. She also started watching films regularly. After her second year in Australia, Lesmana transferred from a public school to the Australian International Independence School. After her graduation, the Lesmana family returned to Indonesia. She enrolled at the Jakarta Art Institute in 1983, graduating in 1985. Her first experience with film producing was a public service announcement made at the request of Garin Nugroho.\n\nOn 14 February 1990, Lesmana married former teen idol, actor Mathias Muchus; the couple have two sons, Galih Galinggis and Kafka Keandre. Throughout the early 1990s Lesmana continued writing songs, including some for her brother and one for Chrisye's 1993 album \"Sendiri Lagi\" (\"Alone Again\"). In 1995 she established a film production company, Miles Productions, which was later renamed Miles Films. In 1996 she directed a successful documentary serial entitled \"Anak Seribu Pulau\" (\"Children of a Thousand Islands\").\n\nIn 1999 Lesmana made her feature film debut with \"Kuldesak\", which she co-directed with Riza Mantovani, Riri Riza and Nan Triveni. The following year she produced \"Petualangan Sherina\" (\"Sherina's Adventure\"). At the time, the Indonesian film industry was in decline, and several filmmakers ridiculed the efforts, saying that the films could not be profitable; both were nevertheless successful. In 2002 Lesmana released \"Ada Apa dengan Cinta?\" (\"What's Up with Love?\"), serving as co-producer with Riza. Iwan Setiawan, writing in \"The Jakarta Post\", describes these films as having jump-started the industry's recovery.\nLesmana produced \"Gie\", a biopic of activist Soe Hok Gie, in 2005. Although a critical success, it did not break even. The following year Lesmana was a founding member of the Indonesian Film Society (), which worked to change censorship laws in the country. The group's petitions were ultimately unsuccessful. Also in 2006 she produced \"Garasi\" (\"Garage\"), a film starring Aries Budiman, Ayu Ratna, and Fedi Nuril. The cast reunited to form the band Garasi in 2007, which was one of the first acts signed to Lesmana's new recording company Miles Music. That year she produced \"3 Hari Untuk Selamanya\" (\"3 Days for Forever\"); the film's soundtrack was produced by Float, another band on Miles Music.\n\nIn 2008 Lesmana produced the film \"Laskar Pelangi\" (\"Rainbow Troops\"), an adaptation of Andrea Hirata's 2007 novel of the same name. That same year she continued to pressure for new film censorship laws, which ended with the government passing a new law in 2009. The following year she produced \"Sang Pemimpi\" (\"The Dreamer\"), a sequel to \"Laskar Pelangi\" based on the novel of the same name. In 2010 Lesmana wrote twenty songs for a musical stage adaptation of \"Laskar Pelangi\", a project that also involved Erwin Gutawa, Jay Subiyakto, and Hartandi.\n\n\"Atambua 39° Celsius\", a film about refugees who live in Atambua, commenced filming in 2012. The film was partially funded through crowd-funding and had its world premiere at the Tokyo International Film Festival. The following year, she released \"Sokola Rimba\" which won Best Film at the Maya Awards.\n\nLesmana’s most expensive production to date was \"Pendekar Tongkat Emas\" (\"The Golden Cane Warrior\"; 2014), a martial arts film directed by Ifa Isfansyah. Starring Eva Celia, Nicholas Saputra, and Reza Rahadian, it had an estimated budget of 25 billion rupiah.\n\nIn 2016, Lesmana produced \"Ada Apa dengan Cinta? 2\" (\"What's Up with Love? 2\";), a sequel to \"Ada Apa dengan Cinta\". Like its predecessor, the film was a hit with audiences, and as of June 2016 had been watched by more than 3.6 million people. Also in the same year, Lesmana released \"Athirah\" (\"Emma' (Mother)\"), a film inspired by the life of Indonesian Vice President Jusuf Kalla’s mother. The film won both the Citra Award and Maya Award for Best Film and had been screened at several international film festivals to positive reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "33595826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33595826", "title": "Mohamed Hikem", "text": "Mohamed Hikem\n\nMohamed Hikem (born April 12, 1992 in Draâ Ben Khedda) is an Algerian football player. He currently plays for MC Alger in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1.\n\nOn October 15, 2011, Hikem made his professional debut for JS Kabylie as a 90th-minute substitute in a league match against AS Khroub. Two weeks later, he made his second appearance for the club, this time as a 73rd-minute substitute against USM El Harrach.\n\n"}
{"id": "1282862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282862", "title": "Montgomery C. Meigs", "text": "Montgomery C. Meigs\n\nMontgomery Cunningham Meigs (; May 3, 1816 – January 2, 1892) was a career United States Army officer and civil engineer, who served as Quartermaster General of the U.S. Army during and after the American Civil War. Meigs strongly opposed secession and supported the Union; his record as Quartermaster General was regarded as outstanding, both in effectiveness and in ethical probity, and Secretary of State William H. Seward viewed it as a key factor in the Union victory.\n\nMeigs was one of the principal architects of Arlington National Cemetery; the choice of its location, on Robert E. Lee's family estate, Arlington House, was partly a gesture to humiliate Lee for siding with the Confederacy.\n\nMeigs was born in Augusta, Georgia, in May 1816. He was the son of Dr. Charles Delucena Meigs and Mary Montgomery Meigs. His father was a nationally known obstetrician and professor of obstetrics at Jefferson Medical College. His grandfather, Josiah Meigs, graduated from Yale University (where he was a classmate of future dictionary creator Noah Webster and American Revolutionary War general and politician Oliver Wolcott), and later was president of the University of Georgia. Montgomery Meigs' mother, Mary, was the granddaughter of a Scottish family from Brigend (with somewhat distant claims to a baronetcy) which emigrated to America in 1701.\n\nMeigs' father apprenticed as a physician in Philadelphia until 1812, at which time he moved to Athens, Georgia. He enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania in 1815, the same year he began to practice medicine in Georgia. Charles Meigs received his MD from the University of Pennsylvania in 1817, and that summer he moved his family—which now included one-year-old Montgomery—to Philadelphia and established a practice there. The Meigs family was wealthy and well-connected, and Charles Meigs was a strong supporter of the Democratic Party. Meigs had extremely good memory, and his father instilled in him a sense of duty and a desire to pursue honorable causes. Young Montgomery received schooling at the Franklin Institute (then a preparatory school for the University of Pennsylvania). Meigs learned French, German, and Latin, and studied art, literature, and poetry. He enrolled at the University of Pennsylvania when he was only 15 years old. A hard worker, he was one of the top students at the university.\n\nThe Meigs family had extensive ties to the military and to West Point, the United States Military Academy. Montgomery Meigs, caught up in the nationalistic fervor of the time, wished to serve in the army. West Point was the only well established engineering school in the United States at the time. Through family connections, Meigs won an appointment to West Point, entering in 1832. He excelled in his studies at West Point, although he himself said he spent too much time at athletics and outdoor activities. He was among the top three students in French and mathematics, and did well in history. He graduated fifth out of a class of 49 in 1836, and he had more good conduct merits than two-thirds of his classmates.\n\nHe received a commission as a second lieutenant in the 1st U.S. Artillery, but most of his army service was with the Corps of Engineers, in which he worked on important engineering projects.\n\nIn his early assignments, Meigs helped build Fort Mifflin and Fort Delaware, both on the Delaware River, and Fort Wayne on the Detroit River. He also served under the command of then-Lt. Robert E. Lee to make navigational improvements on the Mississippi River. Beginning in 1844, Meigs also was involved with the construction of Fort Montgomery on Lake Champlain in upstate New York.\n\nHis favorite prewar engineering project was the Washington Aqueduct, which he supervised from 1852 to 1860. It involved the construction of the monumental Union Arch Bridge across Cabin John Creek, designed by Alfred Rives, which for 50 years remained the longest single-span masonry arch in the world.\nFrom 1853 to 1859, he also supervised the building of the wings and dome of the United States Capitol and, from 1855 to 1859, the extension of the General Post Office Building.\nIn the fall of 1860, as a result of a disagreement over procurement contracts, Meigs incurred the ill will of the Secretary of War, John B. Floyd, and was banished to Tortugas in the Gulf of Mexico to construct fortifications at that place and at Key West. This included Fort Jefferson, Florida. Upon the resignation of Floyd a few months later, Meigs was recalled to his work on the aqueduct at Washington.\n\nJust before the outbreak of the Civil War, Meigs and Lt. Col. Erasmus D. Keyes were quietly charged by President Abraham Lincoln and Secretary of State William H. Seward with drawing up a plan for the relief of Fort Pickens, Florida, by means of a secret expedition. In April 1861, together with Lieutenant David D. Porter of the Navy, they carried out the expedition, embarking under orders from the President without the knowledge of either the Secretary of the Navy or the Secretary of War.\n\nOn May 14, 1861, Meigs was appointed colonel, 11th U.S. Infantry, and on the following day, promoted to brigadier general and Quartermaster General of the Army. The previous Quartermaster General, Joseph Johnston, had resigned and become a general in the Confederate Army. Meigs established a reputation for being efficient, hard-driving, and scrupulously honest. He molded a large and somewhat diffuse department into a great tool of war. He was one of the first to fully appreciate the importance of logistical preparations in military planning, and under his leadership, supplies moved forward and troops were transported over long distances with ever-greater efficiency.\n\nOf his work in the quartermaster's office, James G. Blaine remarked:\nMontgomery C. Meigs, one of the ablest graduates of the Military Academy, was kept from the command of troops by the inestimably important services he performed as Quartermaster General. Perhaps in the military history of the world there never was so large an amount of money disbursed upon the order of a single man ... The aggregate sum could not have been less during the war than fifteen hundred million dollars, accurately vouched and accounted for to the last cent.\n\nSecretary of State William H. Seward's estimate was \"that without the services of this eminent soldier the national cause must have been lost or deeply imperiled.\"\nMeigs' services during the Civil War included command of Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant's base of supplies at Fredericksburg and Belle Plain, Virginia (1864); command of a division of War Department employees in the defense of Washington at the time of Jubal A. Early's raid (July 11 to 14, 1864); personally supervising the refitting and supplying of Major General William T. Sherman's army at Savannah (January 5 to 29, 1865), Goldsboro, and Raleigh, North Carolina and reopening Sherman's lines of supply (March to April 1865). He was brevetted to major general on July 5, 1864.\n\nA staunch Unionist, Meigs detested the Confederacy. His feelings led directly to the establishment of Arlington National Cemetery. On July 16, 1862, Congress passed legislation authorizing the U.S. federal government to purchase land for national cemeteries for military dead, and put the U.S. Army Quartermaster General in charge of this program. The Soldiers' Home in Washington, D.C., and the Alexandria Cemetery were the primary burying grounds for war dead in the D.C. area, but by late 1863 both cemeteries were full. In May 1864, Union forces suffered large numbers of dead in the Battle of the Wilderness. Meigs ordered that an examination of eligible sites be made for the establishment for a large new national military cemetery. Within weeks, his staff reported that Arlington Estate was the most suitable property in the area. The property was high and free from floods (which might unearth graves), it had a view of the District of Columbia, and it was aesthetically pleasing. It was also the home of Robert E. Lee, future General-in-Chief of the Confederacy, and denying Lee use of his home after the war was a valuable political consideration. Although the first military burial at Arlington had been made on May 13, Meigs did not authorize establishment of burials until June 15, 1864. Meigs ordered that the estate be surveyed and that be set aside for use as a cemetery.\n\nWhile the Confederacy never had enough supplies and it kept getting worse, the Union forces typically had enough food, supplies, ammunition and weapons. The Union supply system, even as it penetrated deeper into the South, maintained its efficiency. Historians credit the achievements to Meigs. Union quartermasters were responsible for most of the $3 billion spent for the war. They operated out of sixteen major depots, which formed the basis of the system of procurement and supply throughout the war. As the war expanded, operation of these depots became much more complex, with an overlapping and interweaving relationship between the army and government operated factories, private factories, and numerous middlemen. The purchase of goods and services through contracts supervised by the quartermasters accounted for most of federal military expenditures, apart from the wages of the soldiers. The quartermasters supervised their own soldiers, and cooperated closely with state officials, manufacturers and wholesalers trying to sell directly to the army; and representatives of civilian workers looking for higher pay at government factories. The complex system was closely monitored by congressmen anxious to ensure that their districts won their share of contracts. The system grew in efficiency to the point Union troops on long marches would simply throw away excess knapsacks, bedrolls, overcoats, and other pieces of clothing and equipment that they felt were weighing them down, fully confident that they would be resupplied at some point in the near future.\n\nIn October 1864, his son, 1st Lieutenant John Rodgers Meigs, was killed at Swift Run Gap in Virginia and was buried at a Georgetown Cemetery. Lt. Meigs was part of a three-man patrol which ran into a three-man Confederate patrol. Lt. Meigs was killed, one man was captured, and one man escaped. To the end of his life, Meigs believed that his son had been murdered after being captured—despite evidence to the contrary. The younger Meigs was laid to rest in Oak Hill Cemetery in Georgetown in Washington, D.C. Both Abraham Lincoln and Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton attended the interment.\n\nMeigs was also present for Lincoln's death. At 10:00 pm on the evening of April 14, 1865, Meigs heard that William Seward had been attacked by a knife-wielding assailant. Meigs rushed to Rodgers House, Seward's home on Lafayette Square just across the street from the White House. Shortly after arriving at Seward's home, Meigs learned of the shooting of Lincoln. He rushed to the Petersen House across from Ford's Theatre, where Lincoln lay dying. Meigs stood at the front door of the house for the rest of the deathwatch. He alone decided who was admitted to the house. When Lincoln died at 7:22 am on April 15, Meigs moved into the parlor to sit with the president's body. During Lincoln's funeral procession in the city five days later, Meigs rode at the head of two battalions of quartermaster corps soldiers.\n\nMeigs played a critical role in developing Arlington National Cemetery, both during the Civil War and afterward.\n\nAlthough most burials initially occurred near the freedmen's cemetery in the estate's northeast corner, in mid-June 1864 Meigs ordered that burials commence immediately on the grounds of Arlington House. Brigadier General René Edward De Russy was living in Arlington House at the time and opposed the burial of bodies close to his quarters, forcing new interments to occur far to the west (in what is now Section 1 of the cemetery). But Meigs still demanded that officers be buried on the grounds of the mansion, around the Lee's former flower garden. The first officer burial had occurred there on May 17, but with Meigs' order another 44 officers were buried along the southern and eastern sides within a month. By May 31, more than 2,600 burials had occurred in the cemetery, and Meigs ordered that a white picket fence be constructed around the burial grounds. In December 1865, Robert E. Lee's brother, Smith Lee, visited Arlington House and observed that the house could be made livable again if the graves around the flower garden were removed. Meigs hated Lee for betraying the Union, and ordered that more burials occur near the house to make it politically impossible for disinterment to occur.\n\nMeigs himself designed and implemented most of the changes at the cemetery in the 15 years after the war. In 1865, for example, Meigs decided to build a monument to Civil War dead in the center of a grove of trees west of the Lee's flower garden. U.S. Army troops were dispatched to investigate every battlefield within a radius of the city of Washington, D.C. The bodies of 2,111 Union and Confederate dead were collected, most of them from the battlefields of First and Second Bull Run, as well as the Union army's retreat along the Rappahannock River (which occurred after both battles). Although Meigs had not intended to collect the remains of Confederate war dead, the inability to identify remains meant that both Union and Confederate dead were interred below the cenotaph. U.S. Army engineers chopped down most the trees and dug a circular pit about wide and deep into the earth. The walls and floor were lined with brick, and it was segmented it into compartments with mortared brick walls. Into each compartment were placed a different body part: skulls, legs, arms, ribs, etc. The vault was half full by the time it was ready for sealing in September 1866. Meigs designed a tall, long, wide grey granite and concrete cenotaph to rest on top of the burial vault. The Civil War Unknowns Monument consists of two long, light grey granite slabs, with the shorter ends formed by sandwiching a smaller slab between the longer two. On the west face was an inscription describing the number of dead in the vault below, and honoring the \"unknowns of the Civil War\". Originally, a Rodman gun was placed on each corner, and a pyramid of shot adorned the center of the lid. A circular walk, centered from the center of the memorial, provided access. A walk led east to the flower garden, and another west to the road. Sod was laid around the memorial, and planting beds filled with annual plants emplaced.\nMeigs made additional major changes to the cemetery in the 1870s. In 1870, he ordered that a \"Sylvan Hall\"—a series of three cruciform tree plantings, one inside the other—be planted in the \"Field of the Dead\" (in what is now Section 13). A year later, Meigs ordered the McClellan Gate constructed. Located just west of the intersection of what is today McClellan and Eisenhower Drives, this was originally Arlington National Cemetery's main gate. Built of red sandstone and red brick, the name \"MCCLELLAN\" tops the simple rectangular gate in gilt letters. But just below the name was inscribed the name \"MEIGS\"—a tribute to himself which Meigs could not help making. Due to the growing importance of the cemetery as well as the much larger crowds attending Memorial Day observances, Meigs also decided a formal meeting space at the cemetery was needed. A grove of trees southwest of Arlington House was cut down, and an amphitheater (today known as the Tanner Amphitheater) was constructed in 1874. Meigs himself designed the amphitheater.\n\nMeigs continued to work to ensure that the Lee family could never take control of Arlington. In 1882, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"United States v. Lee\" that the seizure of the Arlington estate at a tax sale by the United States was illegal, and returned the estate to George Washington Custis Lee, General Lee's oldest son. He, in turn, sold the estate back to the U.S. government for $150,000 in 1883. To commemorate the retention of the estate, in 1884 Meigs ordered that a Temple of Fame be erected in the Lee flower garden. The U.S. Patent Office building had suffered a massive fire in 1877. It was torn down and rebuilt in 1879, but the work went very slowly. Meigs ordered that stone columns, pediments, and entablatures which had been saved from the Patent Office be used to construct the Temple of Fame. The Temple was a round, Greek Revival, temple-like structure with Doric columns supporting a central dome. Inscribed on the pediment supporting the dome were the names of great Americans such as George Washington, Ulysses S. Grant, Abraham Lincoln, and David Farragut. A year after it was built, the names of Union Civil War generals were carved into its columns. Since not enough marble was available to rebuild the dome, a tin dome (molded and painted to look like marble) was installed, instead. The Temple of Fame was demolished in 1967.\n\nMeigs became a permanent resident of the District of Columbia after the war. He purchased a home located at 1239 Vermont Avenue NW (at the corner of Vermont Avenue and N Street).\n\nAs Quartermaster General after the Civil War, Meigs supervised plans for the new War Department building (constructed between 1866 and 1867), the National Museum (constructed in 1876), the extension of the Washington Aqueduct (constructed in 1876), and for a hall of records (constructed in 1878). Along with fellow Quartermaster Brigadier General Roeliff Brinkerhoff, Meigs edited a volume entitled, \"The Volunteer Quartermaster\", a treatise which was considered the standard guide for the officers and employees of the quartermaster's department up until the World War I.\n\nFrom 1866 to 1868, to recuperate from the strain of his war service, Meigs visited Europe. From 1875 to 1876, he made another visit to study the organization of European armies, this time with nephew and Army officer Montgomery M. Macomb assigned as \"aide-de-camp\". After his retirement on February 6, 1882, he became architect of the Pension Office Building, now home to the National Building Museum. He was a regent of the Smithsonian Institution, a member of the American Philosophical Society, and one of the earliest members of the National Academy of Sciences.\nFollowing the end of the Civil War, the US Congress passed legislation that greatly extended the scope of pension coverage for both veterans and their survivors and dependents, notably their widows and orphans. This greatly increased the number of staff needed to administer the new benefits system. More than 1,500 clerks were required, and a new building was needed to house them. Meigs was chosen to design and construct the new building, now the National Building Museum. He broke away from the established Greco-Roman models that had been the basis of government buildings in Washington, D.C. until then, and was to continue following the completion of the Pension Building. Meigs based his design on Italian Renaissance precedents, notably Rome's Palazzo Farnese and Plazzo della Cancelleria.\nIncluded in his design was a long sculptured frieze executed by Caspar Buberl. Since creating a work of sculpture of that size was well out of Meigs's budget, he had Buberl create 28 different scenes (totaling in length), which were then mixed and slightly modified to create the continuous long parade that includes over 1,300 figures. Because of the way the 28 sections are modified and mixed up, only somewhat careful examination reveals the frieze to be the same figures repeated over and over. The sculpture includes infantry, navy, artillery, cavalry, and medical components, as well as a good deal of the supply and quartermaster functions. Meigs's correspondence with Buberl reveals that Meigs insisted that one teamster, \"must be a negro, a plantation slave, freed by war,\" be included in the quartermaster panel. This figure was ultimately to assume a position in the center, over the west entrance to the building.\n\nWhen Philip Sheridan was asked to comment on the building, his reply echoed the sentiment of many of the Washington establishment of the day, that the only thing that he could find wrong with the building was that it was fireproof. (A similar quote is also attributed to William T. Sherman, so the story might well be apocryphal.) The completed building, sometimes referred to as \"Meigs's Old Red Barn\", was created by using more than 15,000,000 bricks, which, according to the wits of the day, were all counted by the parsimonious Meigs.\n\nMeigs contracted a cold on December 27, 1891. Within a few days, it turned into pneumonia. Meigs died at home at 5:00 pm on January 2, 1892. His body was interred with high military honors in Arlington National Cemetery. General orders issued at the time of his death declared, \"the Army has rarely possessed an officer ... who was entrusted by the government with a great variety of weighty responsibilities, or who proved himself more worthy of confidence.\"\n\nIn 1841, Meigs married Louisa Rodgers (1816–1879), the daughter of Commodore John Rodgers. Their children included:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12575520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12575520", "title": "Peyveste Hanım", "text": "Peyveste Hanım\n\nPeyveste Hanım (; 10 May 1873 – 1943) was the ninth wife of Sultan Abdul Hamid II of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nPeyveste Hanım was born on 10 May 1873 in Pitsunda, Abkhazia. Born as Rabia Eymhaa, she was a member of Abkhazian princely family Emuhvari. Her father was Prince Osman Bey Eymhaa, and her mother was Princess Hesna Hanım Çaabalurhva, an Abkhazian. She had an elder brother, Prince Ahmed Pasha, and three elder sisters, Princess Eda Hanım (died 1930), Princess Nurhayat Hanım (died 1939), and Princess Mahşeref Hanım (1871 – 1920).\n\nIn 1877, Osman Bey volunteered for service in the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878). He took his wife and children to Istanbul, and entrusted them to the care of Hesna Hanım's paternal cousin, Davud Bey. He returned to Abkhazia and was killed in the war.\n\nDavud Pasha's wife Meryem Hanım, who had been in service in the palace, decided to present the widowed Hesna Hanım and her daughters to her paternal cousin Nazikeda Kadın, first wife of Sultan Abdul Hamid. Nazikeda won over Hesna, and adopted her daughters.\n\nPeyveste met Abdul Hamid in 1890, and married him on 24 January 1893 in the Yıldız Palace. She was given the title of \"Üçüncü Ikbal\". \n\nOn 14 August 1894, a year after the marriage, she gave birth to her only son, Şehzade Abdurrahim Hayri. Upon his birth, she was presented with a beautiful apartment. In 1897, Peyveste became pregnant with her second child, however, suffered an abortion. Abdul Hamid later alocated her in one of the Kiosks on the gardens of the Yıldız Palace.\n\nIn 1909, she was given the title of \"Ikinci Ikbal\". On 27 April 1909, Abdul Hamid was deposed, and sent into exile in Salonica. Peveste was closed to Abdul Hamid. She and her son accompanied him for some time, and returned to Istanbul in 1910. She bought a mansion in Şişli, and took along Sazkar Hanım, the mother of Refia Sultan. After Salonica fell to Greece in 1912, Abdul Hamid also returned to Istanbul, and settled in the Beylerbeyi Palace, where he died in 1918.\n\nIn 1924, she went into a second exile and lived with her son in Paris. She died in 1943, and was buried in Bobigny cemetery, Bobigny, Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84303", "title": "Photographer", "text": "Photographer\n\nA photographer (the Greek φῶς (\"phos\"), meaning \"light\", and γραφή (\"graphê\"), meaning \"drawing, writing\", together meaning \"drawing with light\") is a person who makes photographs.\n\nAs in other arts, the definitions of amateur and professional are not entirely categorical.\nAn \"amateur photographer\" takes snapshots for pleasure to remember events, places or friends with no intention of selling the images to others.\n\nA \"professional photographer\" is likely to take photographs for a session and image purchase fee, by salary or through the display, resale or use of those photographs.\n\nA professional photographer may be an employee, for example of a newspaper, or may contract to cover a particular planned event such as a wedding or graduation, or to illustrate an advertisement. Others, like fine art photographers, are freelancers, first making an image and then licensing or making printed copies of it for sale or display. Some workers, such as crime scene photographers, estate agents, journalists and scientists, make photographs as part of other work. Photographers who produce moving rather than still pictures are often called cinematographers, videographers or camera operators, depending on the commercial context.\n\nThe term professional may also imply preparation, for example, by academic study or apprenticeship by the photographer in pursuit of photographic skills. A hallmark of a professional is often that they invest in continuing education through associations. Many associations offer the opportunity to test and exhibit acumen in order to attain credentials such as Certified Professional Photographer (CPP) or Master Photographer. While there is no compulsory registration requirement for professional photographer status, operating a business requires having a business license in most cities and counties. Similarly, having commercial insurance is required by most venues if photographing a wedding or a public event. Photographers who operate a legitimate business can provide these items.\n\nPhotographers can be categorized based on the subjects they photograph.\n\nSome photographers explore subjects typical of paintings such as landscape, still life, and portraiture. Other photographers specialize in subjects unique to photography, including street photography, documentary photography, fashion photography, wedding photography, war photography, photojournalism, aviation photography and commercial photography. It is worth noting that the type of work commissioned will have pricing associated with the image's usage.\n\nThe exclusive right of photographers to copy and use their products is protected by copyright. Countless industries purchase photographs for use in publications and on products. The photographs seen on magazine covers, in television advertising, on greeting cards or calendars, on websites, or on products and packages, have generally been purchased for this use, either directly from the photographer or through an agency that represents the photographer. A photographer uses a contract to sell the \"license\" or use of his or her photograph with exact controls regarding how often the photograph will be used, in what territory it will be used (for example U.S. or U.K. or other), and exactly for which products. This is usually referred to as usage fee and is used to distinguish from production fees (payment for the actual creation of a photograph or photographs). An additional contract and royalty would apply for each additional use of the photograph.\n\nThe contract may be for only one year, or other duration. The photographer usually charges a royalty as well as a one-time fee, depending on the terms of the contract. The contract may be for non-exclusive use of the photograph (meaning the photographer can sell the same photograph for more than one use during the same year) or for exclusive use of the photograph (i.e. only that company may use the photograph during the term). The contract can also stipulate that the photographer is entitled to audit the company for determination of royalty payments. Royalties vary depending on the industry buying the photograph and the use, for example, royalties for a photograph used on a poster or in television advertising may be higher than for use on a limited run of brochures. A royalty is also often based on the size at which the photo will be used in a magazine or book, and cover photos usually command higher fees than photos used elsewhere in a book or magazine.\n\nPhotos taken by a photographer while working on assignment are often work for hire belonging to the company or publication unless stipulated otherwise by contract. Professional portrait and wedding photographers often stipulate by contract that they retain the copyright of their photos, so that only they can sell further prints of the photographs to the consumer, rather than the customer reproducing the photos by other means. If the customer wishes to be able to reproduce the photos themselves, they may discuss an alternative contract with the photographer in advance before the pictures are taken, in which a larger up front fee may be paid in exchange for reprint rights passing to the customer.\n\nThere are major companies who have maintained catalogues of stock photography and images for decades, such as Getty Images and others. Since the turn of the 21st century many online stock photography catalogues have appeared that invite photographers to sell their photos online easily and quickly, but often for very little money, without a royalty, and without control over the use of the photo, the market it will be used in, the products it will be used on, time duration, etc.\nCommercial photographers may also promote their work to advertising and editorial art buyers via printed and online marketing vehicles.\n\nMany people upload their photographs to social networking websites and other websites, in order to share them with a particular group or with the general public. Those interested in legal precision may explicitly release them to the public domain or under a free content license. Some sites, including Wikimedia Commons, are punctilious about licenses and only accept pictures with clear information about permitted use.\n\n"}
{"id": "17777334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17777334", "title": "Piruz Nahavandi", "text": "Piruz Nahavandi\n\nPiruz Nahavandi also spelled Pirouz Nahawandi (, \"Pīruz Nahāvandī\" or \"Fīruz Nahāvandī\"), also known by the Arabic teknonymy \"Abu Lululah\" () was a Persian Sasanian general who served under the chief-commander of the Sassanian army Rostam Farrokhzad, but was captured in the Battle of al-Qādisiyyah (or Battle of Nahavand) in 636 CE when the Sasanians were defeated by the Muslim army of Umar ibn al-Khattab on the western bank of the Euphrates River. After he was brought to Arabia, he managed to assassinate Umar in the Hijri year 23 (644–645). He also has been emphasized by some Iranologists as an important general in the Sassanian army and possibly a member of the House of Karen who played a significant role in the Persian front during Arab conquest of Persia. Nahavandi also has been reported as an expert blacksmith and carpenter. His name indicates that he is originally from the ancient city of Nahavand, a town in Iran (Persia). He killed himself after assassinating Umar. Thus, his death took place on the same day of Umar's assassination, but he died about 4 days before him.\n\nAfter his capture, Piruz was given as a slave to al-Mughira ibn Shu'ba. In addition to his military skills, Piruz was apparently a skilled carpenter and artisan. According to one report he was involved in the design of a vertical-axis windmill. His master allowed him to live in his own household in the Islamic capital of Medina (although according to Ibn Sa'd, Mughira ibn Shu'ba, his owner who was also the governor of Basra, had written to 'Umar from Kufa; and then 'Umar had given Mughira special permission to send Pirūz to Medina, since captives were not permitted to live in Medina).\n\nAccording to a Sunni Sahih Bukhari hadith, which recounts the assassination and Umar's last days in detail, the companion Amr ibn Maymun described Nahavandi as a \"non-Arab infidel\". In the same hadith, Umar also describes Nahavandi as a non-Muslim: \"All the Praises are for Allah Who has not caused me to die at the hand of a man who claims himself to be a Muslim.\" Nahavandi is referred to with the epithet al-Majusi, indicating Zoroastrian beliefs.\n\nThe motive for Nahavandi's murder of Umar has been reported as the latter's refusal to accept Nahavandi's request that al-Mughira be made to tax him less than the two dirhams a day he was presently taking. In response to the rejection, Nahavandi replied back to Umar with a threat.\n\nSunni tradition has that the next day, in the Hijri year 23, whilst Umar had just begun leading the Fajr (dawn) prayer in Al-Masjid an-Nabawi, Pirouz had hidden the dagger in his robe, the grip of which was in the middle, and hid himself in a corner of the mosque. Shortly after Umar had begun the prayer, Pirūz leapt upon him and stabbed him six times (only three times, according to Ibn Sa'd), this was five times in the stomach and once in the navel, which proved fatal days later. After attacking Umar, Nahavandi stabbed more people, who were trying to subdue him, killing six or nine of them as he tried to flee. When cornered, Nahavandi committed suicide and died.\n\nPirūz Nahavandi's \"revered\" tomb is located on the road from Kashan to Fins, constructed in an eleventh-century distinctive Persian-Khwarezmian dynastic architectural style, consisting of a courtyard, porch and conical dome decorated with turquoise coloured tiles, and painted ceilings. The original date of its construction is unknown, but in second half of fourteenth century it was fully restored and a new tombstone was placed over his grave.\"\n\nAmong the Shia, for the act of killing Umar, Nahavandi acquired the honorific title of \"Baba Shuja Ad-Deen\" (literally 'the brave of the religion'). The day of Umar's assassination (9 Rabi' al-awwal), and the glorification of Nahavandi, is still celebrated in remote Iranian villages and was previously celebrated in major Iranian cities until the protests of Arab countries resulted in its banning there by the authorities. The celebration is known as \"jashn-e Omar koshi\" (the celebration of the killing of Umar).\n\nIn 2010, controversy was caused when the International Union for Muslim Scholars called for Nahavandi's tomb to be destroyed—a request which was not well received by some Iranians, having been perceived as a specifically anti-Iranian act. Al-Azhar University also demanded the Iranian government demolish the shrine; the issue caused the cancellation of diplomatic relations between the university and the Iranian government. These requests were made because the shrine is considered to be \"offensive and un-Islamic\" by mainstream Sunni scholars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10511285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10511285", "title": "Pramod Ranjan Choudhury", "text": "Pramod Ranjan Choudhury\n\nPramod Ranjan Choudhury (1904 - 28 September 1926) was a Bengali activist of Indian freedom movement who was hanged for the assassination of Police officer Bhupen Chatterjee.\n\nPramod Ranjan was born at Kelishahar, Chittagong District in British India. His father name was Ishan Chandra Choudhury.\n\nChoudhury joined in Anushilan Samiti of Chattogram. In 1921 he took part in Non-cooperation movement. He was arrested from Dakshineswar for having connection with Dakshineswar Conspiracy Case and sent to prison. On 28 May 1926 Choudhury and other fellow revolutionary inmates killed Bhupen Chatterjee with an iron rod. Chatterjee was a Deputy Superintendent of Police of Intelligence Branch who always spying on inmates and tried to destroy the mental strength of political prisoners.\n\nThe trial started against them on 15 June 1926 and Capital punishment was awarded on 21 June. Choudhury and Anantahari Mitra were hanged to death on 28 September 1926 in the Alipore Central Jail in Kolkata.\n"}
{"id": "385673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385673", "title": "Rahim Jaffer", "text": "Rahim Jaffer\n\nRahim Nizar Jaffer (; born December 15, 1971) is a Canadian politician. He served in the House of Commons of Canada from 1997 to 2008, representing the Alberta riding of Edmonton—Strathcona as a member of the Conservative Party. He was the first Muslim elected to the Canadian Parliament. Jaffer became embroiled in a national controversy in 2010 after he appeared to receive \"a break\" from the justice system after being charged with drunk driving and possession of cocaine.\n\nJaffer is an Ismaili Muslim of Indian Gujarati descent. While young, Jaffer and his family emigrated to Canada to escape further persecution in Uganda after the government of Idi Amin confiscated their business and their home. They settled in Edmonton.\n\nJaffer completed a Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Ottawa in political science and economics. He took his degree in the French language. He also served as a legislative assistant in the House of Commons. After completing his degree he returned to Edmonton, where he operated a successful coffee shop in the heart of the Old Strathcona district.\n\nJaffer was elected to the House of Commons as the Member of Parliament for Edmonton-Strathcona on June 2, 1997, at the age of 25. He won the seat as a member of the Reform Party of Canada (later the Canadian Alliance, which later merged with the Progressive Conservatives to form the Conservative Party).\n\nIn 2001, Matthew Johnston, an aide to Jaffer, impersonated him during a radio interview that Jaffer was himself unable to attend. Jaffer subsequently apologized for the stunt in the House of Commons and was suspended from his caucus position for several months.\n\nIn the 2006 election, Jaffer was re-elected to serve a fourth term as the Member of Parliament for Edmonton—Strathcona. On February 8, 2006, he was named chair of the Conservative caucus by Prime Minister Stephen Harper.\n\nJaffer lost his seat in the 2008 election after he was defeated by New Democrat Linda Duncan. Jaffer was initially reluctant to concede defeat but finally did so on October 16 after the results were officially validated by the riding returning officer. \n\nIn 2009, Jaffer expressed interest in re-seeking the Conservative nomination for Edmonton-Strathcona. However, he declined to do so after it was claimed that he was shut out of nomination process.\n\nJaffer was once voted \"laziest MP\" in an annual survey by the Hill Times.\n\nOn October 15, 2008, Jaffer married his former caucus colleague Helena Guergis, by then a Cabinet minister. This was her second marriage and his first.\n\nJaffer and Guergis became engaged in October 2007. Reportedly at the initiative of Guergis, the couple decided on the morning after the election to scrap their planned wedding date and to get married immediately. Their wedding was presided over by Ian McClelland, a former Member of Parliament and a licensed marriage commissioner, later that same day at McClelland's home. The marriage was witnessed by the couple's parliamentary colleague James Rajotte and by one of Jaffer's cousins. In December 2010, the couple had a baby boy.\n\nOn September 11, 2009, Jaffer was stopped late at night by the Ontario Provincial Police while he was traveling at a rate of 93 km/h in a 50 km/h zone in Palgrave, Ontario, located close to his wife's riding. The officer noticed a smell of alcohol on Jaffer's breath, and after administering a breathalyzer test, found him to be over the Ontario legal blood-alcohol limit of .08. Jaffer's driver's licence was suspended for 90 days, and he was charged with drunk driving and possession of an undisclosed quantity of cocaine. The location of the cocaine was a source of contention between police and Jaffer. The arresting officer stated that the drugs were found in Jaffer's pants pocket, whereas Jaffer's defense team claimed it was in his suit jacket. Earlier in the evening, he had met in Toronto with Nazim Gillani, a businessman. Gillani claimed he was a banker for the Hells Angels.\n\nJaffer was initially scheduled to appear in court in Orangeville, Ontario on October 19, 2009. During the 2008 election, Jaffer's campaign approved radio ads accusing NDP leader Jack Layton of being soft on marijuana use. The ads said, in part, \"Edmontonians understand how difficult it is to make sure our children make the right choices, especially on serious issues like drug use. The Conservative Party supports drug-free schools and getting tough with drug dealers who sell illegal drugs to children. Don't let our schools go up in smoke. On Oct. 14, vote Conservative.\" On March 9, 2010, Jaffer pleaded guilty to one charge of careless driving and was sentenced to a fine of $500. The cocaine possession and drunk driving charges were withdrawn. Justice Doug Maund told Jaffer \"I’m sure you can recognize a break when you see one.\" The sentence and the dropping of the more serious charges triggered outrage across Canada, as well as more extensive investigation of events leading up to the incident prompting the arrest, which led to allegations Jaffer met with several escorts.\n\n"}
{"id": "50054727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50054727", "title": "Robert Griffith Berry", "text": "Robert Griffith Berry\n\nRobert Griffith Berry, also known as R. G. Berry, (20 May 1869 – 16 January 1945) was a Welsh Congregationalist minister and writer of short stories and plays. \n\nHis parents were Margaret (née Williams) and John Berry, who lived in the Llanrwst, Conwy County Borough area. On completing his grammar school education in Llanrwst, he attended Bangor University College and later Bala-Bangor Theological Seminary. He earned an honorary M.A. degree in 1925 at the University of Wales.\n\nHe was inducted pastor at Bethlehem, Gwaelod-y-Garth in 1896. In 1943, he was chairman of the Glamorgan Congregational Union. \n\nBerry wrote plays about social issues in the Welsh language. A drama movement began about 1890 in Welsh communities, often with productions organised by Nonconformist churches. To promote literary works in dramatic form, Thomas Scott-Ellis, Lord Howard de Walden established an annual £100 () prize in 1911. Berry shared the prize in 1913 for his play \"Ar y Groesffordd.\" His other writings include a number of plays, such as \"Asgre lân\", \"Y Ddraenen Wen\", \"Owen Gwynedd\", \"Cadw Noswyl\", and \"Yr Hen Anian\", and short stories such as those published in \"Llawr Dyrnu\".\n\nHe died in January 1945 and was buried at Pen-tyrch cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "4266628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4266628", "title": "Robert Sheaffer", "text": "Robert Sheaffer\n\nRobert Sheaffer (born 1949) is an American freelance writer and skeptic. He is a paranormal investigator of unidentified flying objects, having researched many sightings and written critiques of the hypothesis that UFOs are alien spacecraft. In addition to UFOs, his writings cover topics such as Christianity, academic feminism, the scientific theory of evolution, and creationism. He is the author of six books.\n\nSheaffer wrote for \"Skeptical Inquirer\" (where he contributed the regular \"Psychic Vibrations\" column), 1977– 2017. \"Fate Magazine\", and \"Spaceflight\". He was a founding member (with Philip J. Klass and James Oberg) of the UFO Subcommittee of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry, and is a fellow of that organization. He is a graduate of Northwestern University and a member of Mensa.\n\nSheaffer has frequently been quoted in the news media regarding UFOs and psychic predictions.\n\nOn July 7, 2010 a flight crew preparing to land in Hangzhou's Xiaoshan Airport in China reported an UFO. As a precaution 18 flights were \"delayed or redirected\". Sheaffer's article in \"Skeptical Inquirer\" magazine's November/December 2010 issue is a discussion of how photographs and videos are used. \"Reporters want an exciting story, and UFOlogists want to win converts. They will typically grab onto any photo or video that is supposed to represent the object and report as fact practically any claim that is made regardless of its source or veracity.\" In the case of the Xiaoshan Airport, most of the footage shown was actually taken a year previous to the July 2010 incident.\n\nUfologist Kevin D. Randle was interviewed by Sheaffer for \"Skeptical Inquirer\" magazine's January/February 2011 issue: looking to \"explore their points of agreement and disagreement, finding that Randle gives more weight to 'eyewitness testimony' than skeptics typically do.\"\n\nInterviewed by the \"Toronto Sun\" newspaper December 20, 2010, Sheaffer is asked by columnist Thane Burnett to debate UFO enthusiast Chris Rutkowski to \"debate the known realities\". When asked \"Is it reasonable to conclude a UFO – something that was beyond our comprehension and understanding – has ever crashed on Earth?\" Sheaffer relies \"No, because no one has ever produced any proof of any extraterrestrial technology being retrieved, despite many claims. Talk is cheap, show us the evidence.\"\n\nOn the August 4, 2012 episode of the Skeptic Zone podcast, Sheaffer was interviewed by Richard Saunders. When asked about the UFO phenomenon, Sheaffer said, \"The Fortean researcher Hilary Evans has said that the UFO mythos looked at in its fullness is the richest set of contemporary myth when you consider all that has come from it... The Men in Black, saucer crashes, Roswell, aliens, alien abductions, alien hybrids, it just goes on and on from there. It's not just something narrow like Bigfoot... UFOs have evolved into this enormous richness as a social phenomenon.\" He also discussed the fallacy of the trained observer. \"Pilots, surprisingly, make relatively poor observers, when they're hit with some surprise, unusual stimulus. Their thought is not, 'Gee let me analyze what that thing is.' Their thought is, 'I'm going to collide with that thing, I'd better go into a bank,' etc.\"\n\nOn January 10, 2014, a series called \"Close Encounters\" debuted on the Discovery Canada channel. The episode recounted a UFO incident that happened at Malmstrom Air Force Base in Montana on March 24, 1967. As Sheaffer summarizes it on his blog, \"A bright, glowing orange UFO is allegedly seen over the base by security men, and then the Oscar Flight missiles were said to start going off-line, one by one.\" Sheaffer's investigation concluded that what the base security men probably saw was the planet Mars. \"Whenever witnesses report a bright object in the sky that is red or orange, the first thing to check is whether Mars might have been the culprit... Mars was only about 3 weeks away from its opposition of April 15, 1967, when it would be directly opposite the sun, and at its maximum brightness.\" As for the base's missiles going off-line, Sheaffer could find no evidence or paper trail to support that, only the claim of (then) Air Force Lieutenant Robert Salas. Noted UFO researcher Robert Hastings responded to Sheaffer's investigation by dismissing the possibility that the glowing object was Mars. Former SAC missile crew commander Tim Hebert goes further than Sheaffer, stating on his blog \"At this point in time there is no supporting documentation or statements from security personnel corroborating the claims for what, if anything, was observed out in the field.\"\n\nCalled the \"world's top expert on the subject of unidentified flying objects and claims of extraterrestrials\" by paranormal investigator Ben Radford in a review of Sheaffer's book \"Bad UFOs: Critical Thinking About UFO Claims\". Radford states that Sheaffer has \"encyclopedic knowledge\" on \"diverse topics\" and uses it in the book. The book is ten chapters long and almost 300 pages, he covers '\"classic\"' as well as \"high profiles reports and sightings (that are) decades old\". Radford writes that when a UFO claim has been debunked clearly and completely they rarely update their writings or \"admit their mistakes... Sheaffer performs a huge... public service... keeping his audience current on old and new claims\".\n\nIn an interview by Karen Stollznow on \"Point of Inquiry\" for May 16, 2011, Sheaffer was asked, \"Have any conspiracy theories ever turned out to be correct, or is a 'true conspiracy theory' really something else?\" He replied, \"Conspiracies occur all the time. Organized crime is a conspiracy... there was a conspiracy to kill President Lincoln... Real conspiracies do exist but not grand conspiracies [in which] The Masons are planning this, or there's always some shadowy group that you can't really point to or say who's involved.\"\n\nSheaffer is skeptical of global climate change, writing in 2008 that, \"when a prominent theory is opposed by scientists of the caliber of Richard Lindzen of MIT, Reid Bryson of the University of Wisconsin, Freeman Dyson of the Institute for Advanced Study, and many others, it is disingenuous to speak of a 'consensus.'\" And concludes, \"given that unknown factors have caused previous climate changes, how can we be certain that these same unknown factors are not active today?\"\n\nSheaffer has been an outspoken critic of contemporary feminism since the late 1980s. His article, \"Feminism, the Noble Lie\" was published in the Spring 1995 issue of \"Free Inquiry\" Magazine. In it, he criticizes feminist crusades against \"satanic cults\", and the use of \"repressed memories\" to uncover supposed \"forgotten incest\". On his debunker blog, Sheaffer calls modern (post-1960s) feminism a con, and compares it to astrology and parapsychology in its lack of academic peer review, poor scholarship, and prevalence of false and inaccurate information and claims. Sheaffer states that anyone who criticizes the \"rampant misinformation\" that is prevalent in modern feminism, including feminist scholars such as Christina Hoff Sommers, Camille Paglia, and others, are labeled \"enemies of women\" and drummed out of the feminist movement. On his website, Sheaffer summarizes his criticism of feminism:\nSheaffer has been a vocal critic of the theory of Creationism, or the belief that God or a Supreme Being created the universe and humanity, and that the Biblical book of Genesis is an accurate account of creation: \"Creationists claim they are proving the Genesis account of Creation 'scientifically', but to do so they must violate scientific methodology willy-nilly...so-called 'Scientific Creationism' is just new, modern packaging for that 'Old-Time Religion.'\" In his 1991 book \"The Making of the Messiah\", Sheaffer argues that Christianity developed \"from the envious anger of the lower classes\" towards \"Roman power and wealth.\" Sheaffer disputes the divinity of Jesus Christ, arguing that his mother Mary was not a virgin, but an adulteress, and that Jesus was an illegitimate child. Sheaffer writes that Christ's claim to operate under a \"higher law\" came from his resentment at being \"despised and rejected\" in Jewish society due to the circumstances of his birth. Sheaffer argues that Jesus was not crucified, nor did the resurrection take place, but that the story of the Romans crucifying Jesus was created to win converts among those who resented Roman power and rule across their empire. Booklist, while praising Sheaffer for writing a \"stern critique\" of the rise of Christianity, also notes that \"In his eagerness to prove his point, Sheaffer places more value in the documents contradicting the Gospels than in the Gospels themselves, though clearly both sources contain large amounts of propaganda for their respective sides.\"\n\nIn his book, \"Resentment Against Achievement: Understanding The Assault Upon Ability\", Sheaffer describes two systems of morality, the pride of achievement, and the resentment sometimes felt by those who have not achieved success toward those who have. Sheaffer contends that resentment towards achievement is seen in \"a hostile suspicion towards \"greedy capitalists\", who are depicted as exploiters rather than what they really are - the creators of jobs and wealth...We see it in a surly animosity towards managers and owners, who are reviled as enemies...Instead of seeing employers as powerful economic allies, the resentful scorn their values, then blame the \"system\" for them not being able to find work.\" He argues that poverty among the lower classes is an inevitable consequence of their flawed values, which emphasize hatred and jealously towards achievement and successful people, and that \"people do not steal because they are poor, they are poor because they steal.\" Sheaffer advocates for a new system of morality based on achievement and success rather than religious morality, which he argues celebrates weakness; he \"excoriates religion for romanticizing, and hence perpetuating, economic incompetence...[Sheaffer] urges the impoverished to break away from a slave morality that encourages passivity.\" A review praises \"Resentment Against Achievement\" by stating that \"for all its harsh denunciation of the resentful, this book is a positive call to action not to harm people but to help them succeed\", and that Sheaffer contends that people \"who adopt higher-class values and ethics will gradually find themselves accumulating so much money that no one will doubt their status any longer.\"\n\nThe twentieth episode of the third season of the \"X-Files\" television series, entitled Jose Chung's From Outer Space, referenced Robert Sheaffer. The plot featured US Air Force test pilots, dressed as aliens, who flew a secret military aircraft designed to resemble a UFO. One pilot was named \"Jacques Sheaffer\" and the other \"Robert Vallee\". According to Sheaffer, Chris Carter, the creator of the X-Files series, decided to name the characters after ufologist Jacques Vallee, and debunker Sheaffer, as a joke. Sheaffer further states that \"The M.P. [military policeman] who later arrested them (the test pilots) was Sergeant Hynek\", a reference to prominent ufologist J. Allen Hynek.\n\nSheaffer was one of the leaders of a workshop on \"Preserving Skeptic History\" at The Amazing Meeting in 2013.\n\nHe was on the panel of the \"UFO Claims\" session at CSICon, a conference put on by the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry, in 2011.\n\nHe spoke at the \"UFOs: The Space-Age Mythology\" CSI workshop in 2009.\n\nHe spoke at the \"Animal Mutilations, Star Maps, UFOs and Television\" session of the \"Science, Skepticism and the Paranormal\" conference put on by CSICOP in 1983.\n\nHe spoke at the \"Where Are They\" symposium at the University of Maryland, November, 1979.\n\nSheaffer has had a passion for opera since the age of six, and has been taking lessons since 1991. He is a tenor and regularly performs in professional opera productions.\n\nSheaffer is a member of Mensa International, having been introduced to it by Robert Steiner (1934–2013, fellow of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry, president of the Society of American Magicians from 1988 to 1989).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1285393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285393", "title": "Rudolf Bing", "text": "Rudolf Bing\n\nSir Rudolf Bing, KBE (January 9, 1902 – September 2, 1997) was an Austrian-born opera impresario who worked in Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States, most notably being General Manager of the Metropolitan Opera in New York City from 1950 to 1972. He was naturalized as a British subject in 1946 and was knighted in 1971.\n\nBorn Rudolf Franz Joseph Bing in Vienna, Austria-Hungary to a well-to-do Jewish family (his father was an industrialist). Bing was an apprentice to a bookseller at the prestigious Viennese shop of Gilhofer & Ranschburg before moving on to Hugo Heller, who also ran a theatrical and concert agency. He then studied music and art history at the University of Vienna. In 1927, he went to Berlin, Germany, and subsequently served as general manager of opera houses in that city and in Darmstadt.\n\nWhile in Berlin he married a Russian ballerina, but in 1934, with the rise of Nazi Germany, the Bings moved to the United Kingdom where in 1946, he became a naturalised British subject. There he helped to found the Glyndebourne Festival Opera. After the war in 1947, he co-founded and was the first director of the Edinburgh International Festival in Scotland.\n\nIn 1949 he moved to the United States, and became General Manager of the Metropolitan Opera the following year, a post he held for 22 years. During the 1960s, he supervised the move of the old Metropolitan on Broadway and 39th Street, to its new quarters in Lincoln Center and presided over one of the most prominent eras of the Met. It was summed up in 1990 by James Oestreich in the \"New York Times\" as follows:\n\nWielding his powerful position at the Metropolitan Opera with intense personal charisma over two decades, Sir Rudolf Bing ruled much of the operatic universe in autocratic fashion, nurturing young artists and cutting superstars down to size with equal enthusiasm. He oversaw the abandonment in 1966 of the stately but somewhat dilapidated old Metropolitan Opera House [which he then had razed] and the construction of a grand monument to his regime, the building the company now occupies, which dominates Lincoln Center. His conservative musical and dramatic bent, preference for Italian opera and concern for theatrical values yielded an identifiable artistic legacy.\n\nDuring Bing's tenure the Met's artist roster became integrated for the first time. Marian Anderson became the first African American to sing a leading role in 1955. She was soon followed by Reri Grist, Robert McFerrin, Shirley Verrett, and many others. He was noted for his preference for European singers and an apparent lack of interest in some leading American performers. Beverly Sills had to wait until after Bing's retirement to make her Met debut in 1975, although Bing later said that not using Sills earlier was a mistake. He fostered the careers of many American artists. Roberta Peters, Leontyne Price, Anna Moffo, Sherrill Milnes, and Jess Thomas are just a few that flourished during his time.\n\nBing is also remembered for his stormy relationship with the era's most famous soprano, Maria Callas. After hiring her for the Met with a debut as \"Norma\" on opening night in 1956, he famously canceled her contract in 1958 when they could not come to terms regarding the roles she would sing. Bing invited Callas to return to the Met for two performances of \"Tosca\" in 1965, the year that turned out to be her final season in opera.\n\nAfter leaving the Met, Bing wrote two books of memoirs, \"5000 Nights at the Opera\" (1972) and \"A Knight at the Opera\" (1981).\n\nWhile living in Berlin, Bing married the Russian ballerina Nina Schelemskaya-Schlesnaya in 1928. They remained together until her death in 1983. They had no children.\nIn January 1987, when Bing was suffering from Alzheimer's disease, he married Carroll Douglass, a 45-year-old woman with a history of mental illness, who then took him, in violation of a court order, on a 10-month-long excursion to Florida, then Anguilla, and eventually to Italy and the United Kingdom, where she had sought to buy Rolls-Royce automobiles and a helicopter to give to the Pope, for whom she had a fixation. The couple were found living in a homeless shelter in Leeds, England, before being coaxed to return to New York by Sir Rudolf's lawyers. By 1989, a lawyer for Sir Rudolf reported that his estate had been reduced during the marriage from $900,000 to less than $200,000, much of it spent on bodyguards hired to keep Douglass from spiriting him out of New York. For this reason, and Bing's mental impairment, a New York state court in September declared him incompetent to enter into a marriage contract and annulled the union. Douglass was a patient in the psychiatric ward of Bellevue Hospital at the time and received no settlement except $25,000 to cover hospital expenses.\n\nIn May 1989, Roberta Peters and Teresa Stratas arranged for Bing to be admitted to The Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, The Bronx, New York, where he resided until his death. Bing died from respiratory failure as a complication of Alzheimer's disease on September 2, 1997, aged 95, at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers, New York.\nHe is buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York City.\n\nIn New Year Honours List of 1956, Queen Elizabeth II appointed Bing a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for \"services to music.\" In 1971, he was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) for \"services to Anglo-American relations,\" becoming Sir Rudolf Bing. Throughout his years in America, Bing had remained a British citizen.\nIn 1973, Bing received the Grand Decoration of Honour in Gold for Services to the Republic of Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "29423603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29423603", "title": "Sayed Askar Mousavi", "text": "Sayed Askar Mousavi\n\nSayed Askar Mousavi () is an ethnic Hazara writer and novelist from Afghanistan. He is the author of \"The Hazaras of Afghanistan\" published on January 29, 2009 by Cambridge University.\n\nSayed Askar Mousavi was born on 1956 in a family belonging to the Hazara ethnic group in Karte Sakhi area of Kabul, Afghanistan\nHe was educated at the University of East Anglia (BA Development Studies, 1987) and St Antony's College, Oxford (MLit; Phd). Sayed Askar Mousavi was a prominent figure in the \"cultural struggle\" of the Afghan Mujahideen in Iran during the Russian occupation. He was the main writer and editor of a few publications, including \"Saaf\", and \"Jawali\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22852299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22852299", "title": "Secretary to the President of the United States", "text": "Secretary to the President of the United States\n\nThe Secretary to the President (sometimes dubbed the president's Private Secretary or Personal Secretary) was a former 19th and early 20th century White House position that carried out all the tasks now spread throughout the modern White House Office. The Secretary would act as a buffer between the President and the public, keeping the President's schedules and appointments, managing his correspondence, managing the staff, communicating to the press as well as being a close aide and advisor to the President in a manner that often required great skill and discretion. In terms of rank it is a precursor to the modern White House Chief of Staff.\n\nEvery American President had a private secretary, but the position was not an official one until the McKinley administration. At the time of its peak the Secretary to the President was a much admired government office held by men of high ability and considered as worthy as a cabinet rank; it even merited an oath of office. Three private secretaries were later appointed to the Cabinet: George B. Cortelyou, John Hay and Daniel S. Lamont.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, Presidents had few staff resources. Thomas Jefferson had one messenger and one secretary (referred to as an amanuensis in the common parlance of the time) at his disposal, both of whose salaries were paid by the President personally. In fact, all Presidents up to James Buchanan paid the salaries of their private secretaries out of their own pockets; these roles were usually fulfilled by their relatives, most often their sons or nephews. James K. Polk notably had his wife take the role.\n\nIt was during Buchanan's term at the White House in 1857 that the United States Congress created a definite office named the \"Private Secretary at the White House\" and appropriated for its incumbent a salary of $2,500. The first man to hold such office officially and to be paid by the Government instead of by the President, was Buchanan's nephew J. B. Henry. By Ulysses S. Grant's presidency, the White House staff had grown to three.\n\nBy 1900, the office had grown in such stature that Congress elevated the position to \"Secretary to the President\", in addition to including on the White House staff two assistant secretaries, two executive clerks, a stenographer, and seven other office personnel. The first man to hold the office of Secretary to the President was John Addison Porter whose failing health meant he was soon succeeded by George B. Cortelyou. Radio and the advent of media coverage soon meant that Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson too expanded the duties of their respective secretaries to dealing with reporters and giving daily press briefings.\n\nUnder Warren G. Harding, the size of the staff expanded to thirty-one, although most were clerical positions. During Herbert Hoover's presidency however, he tripled the staff adding two additional private secretaries to the President (at a salary of $10,000 each – increased from $7,200) added by Congress. The first Hoover designated his Legislative Secretary (the senior Secretary now informally referred to by the press as the President's \"No.1 Secretary\" ), the second his Confidential Secretary, and the third his Appointments and Press Secretary.\n\nIn 1933, Franklin D. Roosevelt converted Hoover's two extra secretaries into the permanent White House Press Secretary and Appointments Secretary, but from 1933 to 1939, as he greatly expanded the scope of the federal government's policies and powers in response to the Great Depression, Roosevelt relied on his \"Brain Trust\" of top advisers. Although working directly for the President, they were often appointed to vacant positions in agencies and departments, from whence they drew their salaries since the White House lacked statutory or budgetary authority to create new staff positions. It wasn't until 1939, during Franklin D. Roosevelt's second term in office, that the foundations of the modern White House staff were created using a formal structure. Roosevelt was able to get Congress to approve the creation of the Executive Office of the President reporting directly to the President which included the White House Office. As a consequence, the office of Secretary to the President was greatly diminished in stature (mostly due to the lack of a sufficient replacement to Roosevelt's confidant Louis McHenry Howe who had died in 1936) and had many of its duties supplanted by the Appointments Secretary.\n\nIn 1946, in response to the rapid growth of the U.S. government's executive branch, the position of Assistant to the President of the United States was established, and charged with the affairs of the White House. Together with the Appointments Secretary the two took responsibility of most of the President's affairs and at this point the Secretary to the President was charged with nothing other than managing the president's official correspondence before the office was discontinued at the close of the Truman administration.\n\nIn 1961, under Republican President Dwight D. Eisenhower, the president's pre-eminent assistant was designated the White House Chief of Staff. Assistant to the President became a rank generally shared by the Chief of Staff with such senior aides as Deputy Chiefs of Staff, the White House Counsel, the White House Press Secretary, and others. This new system didn't catch on straight away. Democrats Kennedy and Johnson still relied on their appointments secretaries instead and it was not until the Nixon administration that the Chief of Staff become a permanent fixture in the White House, and the appointments secretary was reduced to only functional importance. In the 1980s the job was re-designated to the White House Office of Appointments and Scheduling.\n\nThe appointments secretary was the guardian of the President's time. He had the responsibility of acting as \"gatekeeper\" and decided who got to meet with him.\n\nEisenhower appointed Arthur H. Vandenberg Jr. to the position, but he took a leave of absence before Eisenhower's inauguration and later withdrew without ever having served.\n\n\"See White House Press Secretary\"\n\nThe Secretary to the President should not be confused with the modern President's personal secretary who is officially an Administrative Assistant in the President's Office.\n"}
{"id": "32230758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32230758", "title": "Shaun L. Gabbidon", "text": "Shaun L. Gabbidon\n\nShaun L. Gabbidon is a criminologist and the author of many articles and books that typically focus on the areas of racial and ethnic issues in criminology.\n\nGabbidon's parents moved to England from Jamaica in the 1960s, and Gabbidon was born there. In the 1970s they moved to the United States. He obtained a doctorate in criminology from Indiana University of Pennsylvania.\nHe has held various academic positions, including teaching at Coppin State University and the University of Baltimore. He was a fellow at Harvard University's W.E.B. Du Bois Institute for Afro-American Research, an Adjunct Associate Professor in the Center for African American Studies at the University of Pennsylvania and a Professor of Criminal Justice in the School of Public Affairs at the Harrisburg campus of the Pennsylvania State University.\n\nGabbidon is editor of \"Race and Justice: An International Journal\". He is a member of the American Society of Criminology and the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences. He has received numerous academic awards.\nThese include the Coramae R. Mann Distinguished Service Award from the American Society of Criminology and the W.E.B. DuBois Award from the Western Society of Criminology. \nHe is the second scholar in the history of Penn State Harrisburg to be named a distinguished professor as an acknowledged leader in his field of research or creative activity.\n\nAccording to Joseph R. Feagin of Texas A&M University, \"Shaun Gabbidon's book on W. E. B. Du Bois and crime provides an original and innovative window into this little known area of DuBois's research and thought. Gabbidon provides much evidence, drawing on original sources, to back up his contention that DuBois did important research on and theorizing about U.S. crime, especially as it affected Black Americans. He shows how in many ways DuBois anticipated later theories of crime in Western criminology\".\n\nIn his 2010 \"Criminological Perspectives on Race and Crime\" Gabbidon comments at some length on the work of Biko Agozino, who has studied the effect of colonialism on the treatment of black criminals. He notes that Agozino's work has rejuvenated the colonial perspective.\nDiscussing the controversial genetic theories of J. Philippe Rushton in the same book, Gabbidon notes various basic errors of reasoning. Rushton generally ignores sociological factors. He assumes that people can be classified as black, white or Asian, ignoring the large majority of mixed-race people in the United States. \nHe ignores changes over time and differences between members of one group.\n\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "40740884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40740884", "title": "Sidney Kennon", "text": "Sidney Kennon\n\nSidney Kennon, known as Mrs. Cannon (died 1754), was an 18th-century British midwife who delivered the babies of royalty and other great families. She collected numerous creatures, curiosities and specimens. Her collections were auctioned after her death and she left a large sum of money to promote the delivery of babies by women rather than men.\n\nShe was influential in the court of George II and delivered George III in 1738 as a baby for Queen Caroline. Charging up to 50 guineas for a delivery, she became rich. She lived near the court in Jermyn Street, where she entertained celebrities such as Frederick, Prince of Wales. She amassed a large collection of curiosities and objects of natural history. These included polyps and worms, which she studied with the president of the Royal Society, Martin Folkes. Other items included anatomical specimens; coins; medals; ethnographical items; shells; a crocodile given her by royal physician, Richard Mead; and the nightcap of Oliver Cromwell.\n\nShe died on 11 December 1754 at another residence in Clifford Street in Mayfair. As a dying gift, she presented royal physician Frank Nicholls with a bank note for the considerable sum of £500. This was to support his campaign against the delivery of babies by men. There was some controversy in the 18th century as to whether men should deliver babies. Objections included the indecency and indignity that men might inflict upon women and the damage that instruments such as forceps might do to both mother and child. Nicholls had criticised the practice in his pamphlet, \"The Petition of the unborn Babes to the Censors of the Royal College of Physicians\". Mrs. Cannon's bequests enabled him to continue this work but it was not successful.\n\nHer possessions were left to the divine, Arthur Young. Apart from her books about natural history, which were sold privately, the other possessions were sold in public auctions by Abraham Langford. Mrs. Delany wrote that the shells were to fetch £2,500. Horace Walpole bought a large lot at auction which he displayed in his gothic mansion of Strawberry Hill. He wrote about this in a letter to his cousin, Harry Conway, on 12 February 1756:\n\nYou would laugh if you saw in the midst of what trumpery I am writing. Two porters have just brought home my purchases from Mrs. Kennon the midwife's sale: Brobdignag combs, old broken pots, pans, and pipkins, a lantern of scraped oyster-shells, scimitars, Turkish pipes, Chinese baskets, &c. &c. My servants think my head is turned: I hope not: it is all to be called the personal estate and moveables of my great-great-grandmother, and to be reposited at Strawberry. I believe you think my letter as strange a miscellany as my purchases.\n\nP.S. I forgot, that I was outbid for Oliver Cromwell's nightcap.\n\n"}
{"id": "274741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274741", "title": "Statler and Waldorf", "text": "Statler and Waldorf\n\nStatler and Waldorf are a pair of Muppet characters known for their cantankerous opinions and shared penchant for heckling. The two elderly men first appeared in \"The Muppet Show\" in 1975, where they consistently jeered the entirety of the cast and their performances from their balcony seats. \n\nCreated by Jim Henson, the characters have been performed by numerous puppeteers, including Henson, in a variety of films and television productions within the Muppet franchise. Statler and Waldorf are named after two New York City hotels, the Statler Hilton and the Waldorf-Astoria.\n\nThe characters are known for their heckling. In \"The Muppet Show\", the two were always criticizing Fozzie Bear's humor, except for one occasion where Fozzie heckled them back. In contrast, they found \"themselves\" vastly entertaining and inevitably burst into mutual laughter at their own witticisms. It is later revealed in the \"A Muppet Family Christmas\" special that the two hecklers were friends with Fozzie's mother, Emily Bear. Despite constantly complaining about the show and how terrible some acts were, they would always be back the following week in the best seats in the house. As to why, the original version of \"The Muppet Show\" theme song had Statler admitting, \"I guess we'll never know.\"\n\nThey also had a predisposition for breaking the fourth wall. Author Ben Underwood remarked on how the characters generally \"blur the boundary between performer and audience\", as they are \"concurrently audience members and performers\". Underwood points to a second season incident in which the characters see themselves watching the Muppets, with Statler skeptical, saying \"No one would watch junk like that\".\n\nThe puppets were designed by Bonnie Erickson. They were named after two New York City hotels, the Statler Hilton and the Waldorf-Astoria.\n\nIn \",\" the pilot episode of \"The Muppet Show\", Statler and Waldorf were performed by Jerry Nelson and Jim Henson, respectively. Nelson was unavailable for the first few weeks of production on \"The Muppet Show\". As a result, Richard Hunt took on the role of Statler. Hunt and Henson would continue to perform the two characters until Henson's death in 1990. To portray the characters, Hunt and Henson shared very close space, often for hours at a time.\n\nBeginning with \"The Muppet Christmas Carol\" (1992), Statler and Waldorf were performed by Jerry Nelson and Dave Goelz, respectively. When Jerry Nelson left the Muppets, citing health reasons, Muppeteer Steve Whitmire took over as Statler. The two were occasionally performed by Drew Massey (Statler) and Victor Yerrid (Waldorf) in 2005 and 2006, most notably in the web series \"\". Kevin Clash filled in for Goelz as Waldorf in a few episodes of \"Muppets Tonight\".\n\nIn 2017, Whitmire departed from the \"Muppets\" franchise, including the part of Statler, after being unwillingly dismissed from the part of Kermit the Frog in October 2016. While Matt Vogel was announced for the replacement for Kermit, Peter Linz had already replaced Whitmire as the voice of Statler in advertisements.\n\nStatler and Waldorf also appeared (as adults) in the Saturday morning animated television series \"Muppet Babies\". Both characters were voiced by Dave Coulier.\n\nIn \"The Muppet Christmas Carol\", they played the ghosts of Jacob and Robert Marley. Whereas the novel \"A Christmas Carol\" features only a Jacob Marley, creating a Robert allowed for including the two Muppets, and possibly also references Bob Marley. When Ebenezer Scrooge, played by Michael Caine, accuses them of always criticizing him, they reply \"We were always \"heckling\" you.\" In \"Muppet Treasure Island\", they were the figureheads of the \"Hispaniola\". Statler complains about being stuck on the front of the ship, to which Waldorf replies it is better than being in the audience. \n\nIn the 1996 series \"Muppets Tonight\", based on a television rather than theatre show, Statler and Waldorf were shown watching the show at an assisted living facility, still making disparaging remarks. The duo are featured characters at Disney's \"Muppet*Vision 3D\" at Disney's Hollywood Studios as audio-animatronic Muppets helping Bean Bunny escape the theater and, of course, heckling the show. They also make a cameo appearance in Pixar's 2008 short film \"Presto\", where they can be seen in their theater box.\n\n\"The Muppet Newsflash: A Jim Henson News Blog\" announced on September 17, 2009, that Statler and Waldorf would release a book titled \"From the Balcony\" in 2010. However, the book was never released.\n\nStatler and Waldorf appear in featured roles in \"The Muppets\" film. They are shown in Kermit's old office where they inform evil oil baron, Tex Richman, that the only thing that could stop his purchase of The Muppet Theater would be Kermit raising $10 million. They appear during one scene of the 2014 sequel \"Muppets Most Wanted\". When the Muppets arrive in Berlin to perform at a run-down cabaret theater, marked by a sign reading \"Die Muppets\" (\"The Muppets\" in German), the two joke as to whether this is an early review or a suggestion. This scene is presented in the \"Statler and Waldorf Cut\" of the film in its home video release.\n\nThey appear as audience members in \"The Muppets\" TV series. The episode \"Pig Out\" features a B-plot focusing on Statler without Waldorf.\n\n\"Statler and Waldorf: From the Balcony\" is a multi-award–winning web show which ran biweekly on Movies.com from June 2005 until September 2006. The series spawned more than 35 episodes and featured many Muppet characters, both well-known classics and newly created characters. The two elderly curmudgeons would discuss upcoming films, watch the latest movie trailers and share the week's \"\" from their theater box.\n\n\nIn \"The Guardian\", Hadley Freeman wrote \"Not even celebrity guest Milton Berle could compete with their sharp banter. My heroes\". In 2014, \"Esquire\"s Nick Schager named them one of The 10 Most Entertaining Fictional Critics, writing \"the funniest Muppets characters have always been Statler and Waldorf\". In 2015, \"The Huffington Post\" identified Statler and Waldorf as popular Muppets, and said to the fans who love them above others, \"You know the best way to cope with life's difficulties is by laughing at someone else's expense\".\n\nCommentators sometimes make comparisons between people and Statler and Waldorf in attention to, or preoccupation with, details, \"loud\" opinion, or \"cantankerous\" personality. In 2012, \"Der Spiegel\" described the United Kingdom as \"at best spectators in the gallery, like Statler and Waldorf\", within Europe, drawing the ire of U.K. media.\n\n"}
{"id": "22826769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22826769", "title": "Tony Cornell", "text": "Tony Cornell\n\nAnthony Donald Cornell (born 1924, died 10 April 2010, aged 86) was a British parapsychologist and prominent figure in the investigations of ghosts and other paranormal activity across the United Kingdom during the later part of the twentieth century. He appeared in numerous TV documentaries and television debates, and was often the subject of magazine and news articles concerning ghosts and paranormal investigations.\n\nCornell was a leading British expert in parapsychology. With his fellow researchers he attempted to record and measure paranormal events using equipment specifically made for the purpose, incorporating off-the-shelf computing and audio/visual capture devices long before the digital era. Cornell and his associates at the Society for Psychical Research pioneered the study of paranormal activities in the UK and paved the way for subsequent investigations.\n\nTony Cornell was born in Histon, Cambridgeshire in 1924 and educated at The Perse School and Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, then Fitzwilliam House, from which he graduated in 1949. Tony joined the SPR in 1952, was elected to Council in 1962 and became Vice-President in 1992. Elected Treasurer in 1980, he resigned in 2003, having held the post for 22 years. During this time he focused mainly on investigating hauntings, poltergeists and mediums. With Alan Gauld and Howard Wilkinson he created SPIDER (Spontaneous Psychological Incident Recorder). Many cases were monitored, photographically and electronically, but little significant evidence was obtained in twenty years of its use. In 1971, he visited Russian parapsychologists in Leningrad and Moscow to discuss their telepathy experiments. Mainly interested in apparitions, poltergeists and mediums, Cornell acquired a reputation for trying to get to the bottom of what was going on in a measured and unemotional way, a far cry from the current sensationalistic approach apparent in current media offerings which seem more geared towards entertainment than fact finding.\n\nCornell was a member of CUSPR (Cambridge University Society for Psychical Research) and was appointed Research Officer in 1958 and President in 1968. As the SPR Treasurer and ongoing CUSPR President, he served on the organising committee for the SPR Centenary Conference, held at Trinity College in 1982. Cornell was the author of numerous papers on ghosts and poltergeists and expressed some cautious opinions on the Scole, SORRAT Min-lab (USA) and Enfield cases. He co-authored \"Poltergeists\" with Alan Gauld (Routledge & Kegan Paul, London, 1979) and his last major work was \"Investigating the Paranormal\" (Helix Press, New York, 2002). By far his most pressing concern was the continued lack of any new knowledge gained about their cause in recent investigations, which have been conducted in an almost identical way for the last 125 years.\n\nCornell was also an amateur antiquarian and helped ensure the preservation of a number of old, timber-framed buildings opposite the Round Church in central Cambridge. Despite the focus of his career, Cornell's most enduring legacy may well be the Cambridge Science Park, which he proposed in the late sixties.\n\nCornell retired from active paranormal investigations after suffering a stroke in 2004. He died peacefully at home in the company of Martin, his second son and Alison, his third wife, on Saturday 10 April 2010. A memorial service was held in the chapel of Fitzwilliam College on 20 June and his ashes scattered in Histon pond during the late evening of 22 June 2010.\n\nCornell spent over 50 years investigating the paranormal and came to the conclusion that most paranormal cases turn out to have natural explanations such as the result of fraud, pranks and misidentification. He believed that many sightings of ghosts, hauntings and poltergeists are products of the human mind. Cornell estimated that of the 800 cases that he investigated, only twenty percent were difficult to explain and only a handful were paranormal.\n\nCornell wrote that there is no evidence for the spiritualist hypothesis and most séance room phenomena can be explained by unconscious and deliberate fraud. He wrote that discarnate spirits in trance mediumship are secondary personalities from the mediums subconscious and that all physical mediumship such as ectoplasm is the result of fraud and trickery, however, he believed psychokinesis and telepathy to be real. According to Cornell \"without the presence of a living person, none of the alleged paranormal effects occur.\" Throughout his career as a parapsychologist Cornell exposed a number of fraudulent mediums including Rita Goold and Alec Harris. \nThe psychologist and skeptic Richard Wiseman has noted that Cornell conducted a \"great deal of fascinating work\". He investigated the reliability of eyewitness testimony for ghosts by dressing up as a fake spirit in several locations in Cambridge. Cornell discovered that the eyewitness reports were often far from accurate and unreliable.\n\nHowever, Cornell was not just another debunker, but understood and often remarked that ghosts and paranormal activity had been recorded throughout human history and so there was clearly something else going on that we did not understand and which known science could not explain, thus requiring careful, level-headed and dispassionate investigation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "627511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627511", "title": "Victoria Jackson", "text": "Victoria Jackson\n\nVictoria Jackson (born August 2, 1959) is an American actress, comedian, and singer who was a cast member of the NBC television sketch comedy series \"Saturday Night Live\" (SNL) from 1986 to 1992. From 2008 to 2017, Jackson was politically active as part of the Tea Party movement. Jackson's autobiography, \"Is My Bow Too Big? How I went from Saturday Night Live to the Tea Party\" was published in 2012.\n\nJackson was born in Miami, Florida, the daughter of Marlene Esther (née Blackstad) and James McCaslin Jackson, a gym coach. From the age of 5 until she was 18, Jackson's father trained her in gymnastics.\n\nFollowing high school graduation, Jackson attended Florida Bible College in Hollywood, Florida, later transferring to Furman University in Greenville, South Carolina on a gymnastics scholarship. At Furman, she was cast in her first play. She transferred to Auburn University in 1979 for her senior year, changing her major to theater. Midway through her senior year, she left Auburn to pursue an acting career.\n\nIn the 2000s, Jackson earned a degree in theatre from Palm Beach Atlantic University.\n\nWhile doing summer stock theater in Alabama, Jackson met former child-actor Johnny Crawford of the 1950s television series, \"The Rifleman\", who cast her in his nightclub act. She moved to Los Angeles in 1981, working various day jobs while performing comedy at night. Her first big break was her appearance on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\", where she performed doing a handstand while reciting poetry. She would go on to appear on the show twenty times. In 1984 she appeared in the pilot for \"W*A*L*T*E*R\", a failed \"M*A*S*H\" spin-off that the networks did not pick up. In the pilot episode she was listed in the end-credits as \"Victoria Carroll\".\n\nFollowing a role in the short-lived 1985 television series \"Half Nelson\", Jackson received an offer to audition for the cast of \"Saturday Night Live\". Because she was not confident her audition had gone well, on her next appearance on \"The Tonight Show\" she performed several impersonations and sent the tape to \"SNL\"s Lorne Michaels. After viewing the tape, Michaels asked Jackson to join the show. A regular cast member from 1986 to 1992, Jackson often appeared on the show's weekly \"Weekend Update\" segment as a correspondent who would go off-topic, reciting poetry and doing back-bends or handstands on the desk Jackson was also known for her recurring skit roles where she would impersonate Roseanne Barr or Zsa Zsa Gabor. She was one of the few women on the show.\n\nDuring her tenure on \"SNL\", Jackson was cast in a number of films including \"Baby Boom\", \"Family Business\", and \"I Love You to Death\" as well as \"UHF\", \"The Pick-up Artist\", \"The Couch Trip\", and \"Casual Sex?\"\n\nJackson's film career continued following her 1992 departure from \"Saturday Night Live\", however her roles were in mostly unknown or unnoticed films. On television, she was cast as the lead of her own sitcom co-starring George Clooney. When there was a change in management at Fox, the show was scrapped without being broadcast. In 1994 she appeared as \"Beverly\" in the \"In the Heat of the Night\" episode, \"Good Cop, Bad Cop\", and in 2000 she appeared as the unrequited love of a small-town man who can control the weather in \"The X-Files\" episode, \"The Rain King\".\n\nDuring the 2003–2004 seasons, Jackson had a regular role in the Nickelodeon show \"Romeo!\". In 2004 and 2005 she had roles in two romantic comedies, \"Shut Up and Kiss Me!\" and \"Her Minor Thing\". During this period, Jackson appeared on the game show \"Hollywood Squares\", and participated in the show \"Celebrity Fit Club\". She played multiple characters in the 2014 direct-to-video movie, \"Campin' Buddies\".\n\nIn 2016, Jackson had a role in \"The Matchbreaker\".\n\nA self-described conservative Christian, Jackson has appeared in productions such as the 2007 Christian comedy concert \"Thou Shalt Laugh 2: The Deuce\"; as well as a dozen times on \"Politically Incorrect\" with Bill Maher as the \"token religious conservative\". Jackson has given support to the Tea Party through appearances at events as well as her website which was affiliated with the Liberty Alliance.\n\nIn October 2008, she appeared with other celebrities on \"The O'Reilly Factor\" in a National Republican Senatorial Committee advertisement poking fun at then-future Senator Al Franken, a fellow Saturday Night Live alumnus.\n\nBeginning in 2008, Jackson stated that she believed Barack Obama to be a communist. In 2015, she spread conspiracy theories about Obama's religion, stating he was an \"Islamic jihadist\" who supported the Islamic State, that he had Muslim Brotherhood members in his cabinet, and that Obama's support for legal abortion and same-sex marriage showed he was not a Christian.\n\nIn 2011, Jackson wrote that she thought she was being spied on because of her conservative views. Jackson criticized the TV show \"Glee\" for showing a kiss between two male actors, citing the Bible as the source of her criticism. When accused of being homophobic, Jackson countered that the label was merely a \"cute liberal buzzword\", and suggested that \"Glee\" should be replaced with a show promoting celibacy instead.\n\nIn 2011, Jackson joined the staff of \"Patriot Update\" as a writer and video blogger and host of the talk show, \"Politichicks\". Co-hosts included Ann-Marie Murrrell, Jannique Stewart, and Jennie Jones. Jackson wrote a satirical song for \"Politichicks\" titled \"Shariah Law\" with the song's lyrics claiming, \"They [Muslims] like beheadings and pedophile weddings\". Among her work for Patriot Update was a piece on Occupy Wall Street that was critical of the protesters.\n\nIn 2012, White Hall publishers, part of the Liberty Alliance, released Jackson's autobiography, \"Is My Bow Too Big? How I went from Saturday Night Live to the Tea Party\".\n\nIn 2012 after Todd Akin's remarks regarding pregnancies resulting from rape, Jackson said, \"If I got raped, I would have the baby. And if I didn't want to keep it because I had these horrible nightmares, I would adopt it out. But I think that God can turn a bad thing into a good thing. And that, if I got raped and a beautiful baby who was innocent was born out of it, that would be a blessing.\"\n\nIn 2014, Jackson filed a petition as an independent candidate for one of two District 2 seats in Williamson County, Tennessee. Jackson's run resulted in 632 votes, not enough to secure either seat against the incumbent candidates.\n\nIn 2017, Jackson dropped out of politics.\n\nShe married a fellow performer, a fire-eater, in 1984, and had a daughter with him; they divorced in 1991. Shortly after her divorce, Jackson reconnected with her high school sweetheart, then a Miami-Dade SWAT-team police officer. When her husband retired in 2013, the couple moved to Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nIn 2017 BroadStreet Publishing released a comedy/devotional about Jackson's cancer journey, \"Lavender Hair.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1741606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1741606", "title": "William Slater Brown", "text": "William Slater Brown\n\nWilliam Slater Brown (November 13, 1896 – June 22, 1997) was an American novelist, biographer, and translator of French literature. Most notably, he was a friend of the poet E. E. Cummings and is best known as the character \"B.\" in Cumming's 1922 memoir/novel \"The Enormous Room\".\n\nHis books, published under the name Slater Brown, include the novel \"The Burning Wheel\" (1943); \"Ethan Allen and the Green Mountain Boys\" (1956), a biography for children; and \"The Heyday of Spiritualism\" (1970), a study of the 19th-century interest in parapsychology and the occult.\n\nBrown was born to the physician Frederick Augustus Brown and Katharine Slater in the town of Webster, Massachusetts. His great-great grandfather, businessman Samuel Slater, was the chief founder of Webster and is credited with beginning the industrial revolution in the United States with the opening of a textile mill in Pawtucket, Rhode Island in 1790. Early family wealth disappeared through a series of misfortunes, and Brown and his younger siblings, Fritz, Joyce and Kitty, grew up in relative poverty. From the age of 16, while living with cousins in Boston, the rebellious Brown adopted a life and world philosophy at odds to that of his parents, and he undertook a process of self-discovery that led him to a failed enrollment at Columbia School of Journalism.\n\nBrown volunteered to serve in the Norton-Harjes Ambulance Corps in early 1917. En route to France aboard the he met E.E. Cummings. Due to an organizational mix-up, the two spent five weeks together in Paris before assigned to an ambulance unit, during which time they became close friends.\n\nIn September 1917 Brown and Cummings were arrested on suspicion of espionage and were imprisoned at the La Ferté-Macé detention camp, Orne, Normandy. Cummings was released in December 1917 after intervention from his father; however, Brown was not released at the same time, and in fact was transferred at that time to a prison in Précigné. Brown was not able to secure his release for three additional months, after which he sailed for New York, where he reunited with Cummings.\n\nBrown later became part of the bohemian circle of artists and writers in Greenwich Village, New York, contributing articles and reviews to magazines and journals such as \"The New Masses\" and \"The Dial\". These years were marked by his struggle with alcoholism which he finally overcame in 1947.\n\nDuring this time he married Susan Jenkins, who was part of the Provincetown Players group, and they had one son, Gwilym Slater Brown (1928–1974). His daughter, Rachel Brown, was born to Esther Rosenberg in 1936. In 1957 he married Mary James (died 1987), the granddaughter of Robertson James and grandniece of Henry James. They resided in Rockport, Massachusetts. William Slater Brown died at age 100 in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20498687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20498687", "title": "Yip Pin Xiu", "text": "Yip Pin Xiu\n\nYip Pin Xiu, PJG (, born 10 January 1992) is a Singaporean backstroke swimmer. She is a three-time Paralympic gold medallist and a one-time IPC gold medallist, with two world records in the 50 m backstroke S2 and the 100 m backstroke S2.\n\nShe has muscular dystrophy and competes in the S3 category for the physically impaired. Since 2005, she has won medals in international competitions such as the World Wheelchair and Amputee Games, Japan Paralympic Swimming Championships and International German Paralympic Swimming Championships. At the 2008 Summer Paralympics, she won a gold medal in the 50 metres backstroke and a silver medal in the 50 metres freestyle, setting world records in both events. At the 2016 Summer Paralympics, she won a gold medal in the 100 metres S2 backstroke, setting a world record for that event, and another for her 50 m split.\n\nIn honour of her feats at the Paralympic Games, she was conferred the Pingat Jasa Gemilang (Meritorious Service Medal) during the National Day Awards ceremony and named \"Young Woman Achiever of the Year\" by local magazine \"Her World\". Her achievements contributed to public debate about the treatment and recognition of disabled athletes in Singapore.\n\nOn 17 September 2018, Yip became a Nominated Member of Parliament in Singapore. Her term began on 22 September 2018, and was sworn to the parliament on 1 October 2018.\n\nYip was born with muscular dystrophy, a genetic disorder that slowly breaks down the muscles, and a nerve condition that affects eyesight. When she was five, she started swimming to improve her health and strengthen her muscles; nevertheless, by the age of eleven, she had lost her ability to walk and had to use a wheelchair. The youngest of three children in her family, she studied in Ai Tong Primary School and Bendemeer Secondary School, then graduated from Republic Polytechnic as back-up valedictorian and, as of 2017, graduated from Singapore Management University with a Bachelor of Social Science.\n\nYip started swimming competitively when she was twelve years old. After losing her ability to kick, Yip switched from the front crawl to the backstroke and was reclassified from the S5 to the S3 category (lower numbers indicate more severe disabilities). Her coach is former Singaporean Olympic swimmer Ang Peng Siong, while fellow Paralympic swimmer Theresa Goh is her close friend and role model. Besides competitive swimming, Yip has participated in events to raise awareness of disabled sports, such as the Interschool Swimming Meets and Montfort Secondary School Track and Field Meet 2007.\n\nAfter successes in national championships, Yip participated in the Asia Paralympics Swimming Championship 2005, winning two gold medals. Her first international competition was the World Wheelchair and Amputee Games 2005, where she won two gold medals and a bronze. She then received four gold medals at the DSE Long Course Swimming Championships in 2006. In 2007, she won three gold medals at the Japan Paralympic Swimming Championships and four gold medals at the World Wheelchair and Amputee Games.\n\nAt the 4th ASEAN Para Games, Yip finished first in the women's 150 metres individual medley, clocking 4 minutes 56.34 seconds. She set a world record time of 1 minute 00.80 seconds in the 50 metres backstroke at the US Paralympic swimming trials. The 22nd International German Paralympic Swimming Championships saw her set a world record of 2 minutes 10.09 seconds in the 100 metres backstroke heats; in the finals, she was awarded the gold medal with a time of 2 minutes 08.09 seconds, bettering her own world record.\n\nYip started her 2008 Summer Paralympic Games campaign by breaking another world record, clocking 57.04 seconds in the women's 50 metres freestyle heats. However, she was narrowly beaten by Mexican swimmer Patricia Valle in the finals, clinching a silver medal with a time of 57.43 seconds. In the women's 50 metres backstroke heats, she posted a time of 57.92 seconds, taking two seconds off her own world record. She then swam the women's 50 metres backstroke finals in a time of 58.75 seconds to win the gold medal. After she returned to Singapore, the president conferred Yip a state medal, the \"Meritorious Service Medal\".\n\nThe success of Yip and Laurentia Tan, who won two bronze medals in equestrian events, sparked public debate about the treatment and recognition of disabled athletes in Singapore. Letters to \"The Straits Times\" criticised the poor coverage of the Paralympics. Many Singaporeans also commented about the disparity of the cash awards handed out by the government: S$1,000,000 for an Olympic gold and S$100,000 for a Paralympic gold. When the issues were raised in Parliament, MCYS parliamentary secretary Teo Ser Luck promised to study plans to give disabled athletes greater support and to include them in sporting programmes such as Project 0812, a training programme for top Singaporean sportspeople. Two months later, the cash rewards for Paralympic medals were doubled and funding for the Singapore National Paralympic Council was increased.\n\nAt the 8th ASEAN Para Games, she was torch lighter with Tay Wei Ming and Gan Kai Hong Aloysius.\n\nYip participated in the 2016 Summer Paralympics. On 10 September 2016, Yip swam in the finals of the 100 m backstroke, S2 class; her time of 2:07.09 was a new S2 world record, earning her a Paralympic gold medal. Her 59.38 split for the first 50 m of the race was also a new S2 world record; in both cases she overwrote her own world leading times. Her medal was Singapore's first at the 2016 Summer Paralympics. On 16 September, Yip won her (and Singapore's) second gold medal of the 2016 Games, this time in the 50 m backstroke finals, S2 class with a time of 1:00.33.\n\nYip also participated in the 2018 Asian Para Games, and won one gold medal and two bronze medals in total. On 8 October, she won her first gold medal for the 50 m backstroke, S1-4 class, and on 9 October, her first bronze medal for the 100 m freestyle, S1-4 class event. On 12 October, she won her second bronze medal on the 50 m freestyle, S1-4 class event with a time of 1:04.68, behind Peng Qiuping of China and Gabidullina Zulfiya of Kazakhstan, with times of 43.48s and 45.51s, respectively.\n\n"}
