{"id": "2731583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2731583", "title": "Adolf Hitler", "text": "Adolf Hitler\n\nAdolf Hitler (; 20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945) was a German politician, demagogue, and Pan-German revolutionary. He was leader of the Nazi Party (\"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\"; NSDAP), and rose to power in Germany as Chancellor in 1933 and Führer (\"Leader\") in 1934. During his dictatorship from 1933 to 1945, he initiated World War II in Europe by invading Poland in September 1939, and was central to the perpetration of the Holocaust.\n\nHitler was born in Austria—then part of Austria-Hungary—and was raised near Linz. He moved to Germany in 1913 and was decorated during his service in the German Army in World War I. In 1919, he joined the German Workers' Party (DAP), the precursor of the NSDAP, and was appointed leader of the NSDAP in 1921. In 1923, he attempted to seize power in a failed coup in Munich and was imprisoned. In jail, he dictated the first volume of his autobiography and political manifesto \"Mein Kampf\" (\"My Struggle\"). After his release in 1924, Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism, anti-semitism and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda. He frequently denounced international capitalism and communism as part of a Jewish conspiracy.\n\nBy July 1932 the Nazi Party was the largest elected party in the German Reichstag, but did not have a majority, and no party was able to form a majority parliamentary coalition in support of a candidate for chancellor. Former chancellor Franz von Papen and other conservative leaders persuaded President Paul von Hindenburg to appoint Hitler as Chancellor on 30 January 1933. Shortly after, the Reichstag passed the Enabling Act of 1933, which began the process of transforming the Weimar Republic into Nazi Germany, a one-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of National Socialism. Hitler aimed to eliminate Jews from Germany and establish a New Order to counter what he saw as the injustice of the post-World War I international order dominated by Britain and France. His first six years in power resulted in rapid economic recovery from the Great Depression, the abrogation of restrictions imposed on Germany after World War I, and the annexation of territories inhabited by millions of ethnic Germans, which gave him significant popular support.\n\nHitler sought \"Lebensraum\" (\"living space\") for the German people in Eastern Europe, and his aggressive foreign policy is considered the primary cause of World War II in Europe. He directed large-scale rearmament and, on 1 September 1939, invaded Poland, resulting in Britain and France declaring war on Germany. In June 1941, Hitler ordered an invasion of the Soviet Union. By the end of 1941, German forces and the European Axis powers occupied most of Europe and North Africa. In December 1941, he declared war on the United States, bringing them directly into the conflict. Failure to defeat the Soviets and the entry of the United States into the war forced Germany onto the defensive and it suffered a series of escalating defeats. In the final days of the war, during the Battle of Berlin in 1945, he married his longtime lover Eva Braun. Less than two days later, on 30 April 1945, the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Soviet Red Army; their corpses were burned.\n\nUnder Hitler's leadership and racially motivated ideology, the Nazi regime was responsible for the genocide of at least 5.5 million Jews and millions of other victims whom he and his followers deemed \"Untermenschen\" (subhumans) or socially undesirable. Hitler and the Nazi regime were also responsible for the killing of an estimated 19.3 million civilians and prisoners of war. In addition, 28.7 million soldiers and civilians died as a result of military action in the European theatre. The number of civilians killed during World War II was unprecedented in warfare, and the casualties constitute the deadliest conflict in history.\n\nHitler's father Alois Hitler Sr. (1837–1903) was the illegitimate child of Maria Anna Schicklgruber. The baptismal register did not show the name of his father, and Alois initially bore his mother's surname \"Schicklgruber\". In 1842, Johann Georg Hiedler married Alois's mother Maria Anna. Alois was brought up in the family of Hiedler's brother, Johann Nepomuk Hiedler. In 1876, Alois was legitimated and the baptismal register changed by a priest to register Johann Georg Hiedler as Alois's father (recorded as \"Georg Hitler\"). Alois then assumed the surname \"Hitler\", also spelled \"Hiedler\", \"Hüttler\", or \"Huettler\". The name is probably based on \"one who lives in a hut\" (German \"Hütte\" for \"hut\").\n\nNazi official Hans Frank suggested that Alois's mother had been employed as a housekeeper by a Jewish family in Graz, and that the family's 19-year-old son Leopold Frankenberger had fathered Alois. No Frankenberger was registered in Graz during that period, and no record has been produced of Leopold Frankenberger's existence, so historians dismiss the claim that Alois's father was Jewish.\n\nAdolf Hitler was born on 20 April 1889 in Braunau am Inn, a town in Austria-Hungary (in present-day Austria), close to the border with the German Empire. He was christened as \"Adolphus Hitler\". He was the fourth of six children born to Alois Hitler and his third wife, Klara Pölzl. Three of Hitler's siblings—Gustav, Ida, and Otto—died in infancy. Also living in the household were Alois's children from his second marriage: Alois Jr. (born 1882) and Angela (born 1883). When Hitler was three, the family moved to Passau, Germany. There he acquired the distinctive lower Bavarian dialect, rather than Austrian German, which marked his speech throughout his life. The family returned to Austria and settled in Leonding in 1894, and in June 1895 Alois retired to Hafeld, near Lambach, where he farmed and kept bees. Hitler attended \"Volksschule\" (a state-owned school) in nearby Fischlham.\n\nThe move to Hafeld coincided with the onset of intense father-son conflicts caused by Hitler's refusal to conform to the strict discipline of his school. His father beat him, although his mother tried to protect him. Alois Hitler's farming efforts at Hafeld ended in failure, and in 1897 the family moved to Lambach. The eight-year-old Hitler took singing lessons, sang in the church choir, and even considered becoming a priest. In 1898 the family returned permanently to Leonding. Hitler was deeply affected by the death of his younger brother Edmund, who died in 1900 from measles. Hitler changed from a confident, outgoing, conscientious student to a morose, detached boy who constantly fought with his father and teachers.\n\nAlois had made a successful career in the customs bureau, and wanted his son to follow in his footsteps. Hitler later dramatised an episode from this period when his father took him to visit a customs office, depicting it as an event that gave rise to an unforgiving antagonism between father and son, who were both strong-willed. Ignoring his son's desire to attend a classical high school and become an artist, Alois sent Hitler to the \"Realschule\" in Linz in September 1900. Hitler rebelled against this decision, and in \"Mein Kampf\" states that he intentionally did poorly in school, hoping that once his father saw \"what little progress I was making at the technical school he would let me devote myself to my dream\".\n\nLike many Austrian Germans, Hitler began to develop German nationalist ideas from a young age. He expressed loyalty only to Germany, despising the declining Habsburg Monarchy and its rule over an ethnically variegated empire. Hitler and his friends used the greeting \"Heil\", and sang the \"Deutschlandlied\" instead of the Austrian Imperial anthem.\n\nAfter Alois's sudden death on 3 January 1903, Hitler's performance at school deteriorated and his mother allowed him to leave. He enrolled at the \"Realschule\" in Steyr in September 1904, where his behaviour and performance improved. In 1905, after passing a repeat of the final exam, Hitler left the school without any ambitions for further education or clear plans for a career.\n\nIn 1907 Hitler left Linz to live and study fine art in Vienna, financed by orphan's benefits and support from his mother. He applied for admission to the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna but was rejected twice. The director suggested Hitler should apply to the School of Architecture, but he lacked the necessary academic credentials as he had not finished secondary school.\n\nOn 21 December 1907, his mother died of breast cancer at the age of 47. In 1909 Hitler ran out of money and was forced to live a bohemian life in homeless shelters and a men's dormitory. He earned money as a casual labourer and by painting and selling watercolours of Vienna's sights.\n\nDuring his time in Vienna he pursued a growing passion for two interests, architecture and music, attending ten performances of \"Lohengrin\", his favourite Wagner opera.\n\nIt was here that Hitler first became exposed to racist rhetoric. Populists such as mayor Karl Lueger exploited the climate of virulent anti-Semitism and occasionally espoused German nationalist notions for political effect. German nationalism had a particularly widespread following in the Mariahilf district, where Hitler lived. Georg Ritter von Schönerer became a major influence on Hitler. He also developed an admiration for Martin Luther. Hitler read local newspapers such as \"Deutsches Volksblatt\" that fanned prejudice and played on Christian fears of being swamped by an influx of Eastern European Jews. He read newspapers and pamphlets that published the thoughts of philosophers and theoreticians such as Houston Stewart Chamberlain, Charles Darwin, Friedrich Nietzsche, Gustave Le Bon and Arthur Schopenhauer.\n\nThe origin and development of Hitler's anti-Semitism remains a matter of debate. His friend, August Kubizek, claimed that Hitler was a \"confirmed anti-Semite\" before he left Linz. However, historian Brigitte Hamann describes Kubizek's claim as \"problematical\". While Hitler states in \"Mein Kampf\" that he first became an anti-Semite in Vienna, Reinhold Hanisch, who helped him sell his paintings, disagrees. Hitler had dealings with Jews while living in Vienna. Historian Richard J. Evans states that \"historians now generally agree that his notorious, murderous anti-Semitism emerged well after Germany's defeat [in World War I], as a product of the paranoid \"stab-in-the-back\" explanation for the catastrophe\".\n\nHitler received the final part of his father's estate in May 1913 and moved to Munich, Germany. Hitler was called up for conscription into the Austro-Hungarian Army, so he journeyed to Salzburg on 5 February 1914 for medical assessment. After he was deemed by the medical examiners as unfit for service, he returned to Munich. Hitler later claimed that he did not wish to serve the Habsburg Empire because of the mixture of races in its army and his belief that the collapse of Austria-Hungary was imminent.\n\nIn August 1914, at the outbreak of World War I, Hitler was living in Munich and voluntarily enlisted in the Bavarian Army. According to a 1924 report by the Bavarian authorities, allowing Hitler to serve was almost certainly an administrative error, since as an Austrian citizen, he should have been returned to Austria. Posted to the Bavarian Reserve Infantry Regiment 16 (1st Company of the List Regiment), he served as a dispatch runner on the Western Front in France and Belgium, spending nearly half his time at the regimental headquarters in Fournes-en-Weppes, well behind the front lines. He was present at the First Battle of Ypres, the Battle of the Somme, the Battle of Arras, and the Battle of Passchendaele, and was wounded at the Somme. He was decorated for bravery, receiving the Iron Cross, Second Class, in 1914. On a recommendation by Lieutenant Hugo Gutmann, Hitler's Jewish superior, he received the Iron Cross, First Class on 4 August 1918, a decoration rarely awarded to one of Hitler's \"Gefreiter\" rank. He received the Black Wound Badge on 18 May 1918.\n\nDuring his service at headquarters, Hitler pursued his artwork, drawing cartoons and instructions for an army newspaper. During the Battle of the Somme in October 1916, he was wounded in the left thigh when a shell exploded in the dispatch runners' dugout. Hitler spent almost two months in hospital at Beelitz, returning to his regiment on 5 March 1917. On 15 October 1918, he was temporarily blinded in a mustard gas attack and was hospitalised in Pasewalk. While there, Hitler learned of Germany's defeat, and—by his own account—upon receiving this news, he suffered a second bout of blindness.\n\nHitler described the war as \"the greatest of all experiences\", and was praised by his commanding officers for his bravery. His wartime experience reinforced his German patriotism and he was shocked by Germany's capitulation in November 1918. His bitterness over the collapse of the war effort began to shape his ideology. Like other German nationalists, he believed the \"Dolchstoßlegende\" (stab-in-the-back myth), which claimed that the German army, \"undefeated in the field\", had been \"stabbed in the back\" on the home front by civilian leaders, Jews, Marxists, and those who signed the armistice that ended the fighting – later dubbed the \"November criminals\".\n\nThe Treaty of Versailles stipulated that Germany must relinquish several of its territories and demilitarise the Rhineland. The treaty imposed economic sanctions and levied heavy reparations on the country. Many Germans saw the treaty as an unjust humiliation—they especially objected to Article 231, which they interpreted as declaring Germany responsible for the war. The Versailles Treaty and the economic, social, and political conditions in Germany after the war were later exploited by Hitler for political gain.\n\nAfter World War I, Hitler returned to Munich. Without formal education or career prospects, he remained in the army. In July 1919 he was appointed \"Verbindungsmann\" (intelligence agent) of an \"Aufklärungskommando\" (reconnaissance unit) of the \"Reichswehr\", assigned to influence other soldiers and to infiltrate the German Workers' Party (DAP). At a DAP meeting on 12 September 1919, Party Chairman Anton Drexler was impressed with Hitler's oratorical skills. He gave him a copy of his pamphlet \"My Political Awakening\", which contained anti-Semitic, nationalist, anti-capitalist, and anti-Marxist ideas. On the orders of his army superiors, Hitler applied to join the party, and within a week was accepted as party member 555 (the party began counting membership at 500 to give the impression they were a much larger party).\n\nAround this time, Hitler made his earliest known recorded statement about the Jews in a letter (now known as the Gemlich letter) dated 16 September 1919 to Adolf Gemlich about the Jewish question. In the letter, Hitler argues that the aim of the government \"must unshakably be the removal of the Jews altogether\".\n\nAt the DAP, Hitler met Dietrich Eckart, one of the party's founders and a member of the occult Thule Society. Eckart became Hitler's mentor, exchanging ideas with him and introducing him to a wide range of Munich society. To increase its appeal, the DAP changed its name to the \"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\" (National Socialist German Workers Party; NSDAP). Hitler designed the party's banner of a swastika in a white circle on a red background.\n\nHitler was discharged from the army on 31 March 1920 and began working full-time for the NSDAP. The party headquarters was in Munich, a hotbed of anti-government German nationalists determined to crush Marxism and undermine the Weimar Republic. In February 1921—already highly effective at crowd manipulation—he spoke to a crowd of over 6,000. To publicise the meeting, two truckloads of party supporters drove around Munich waving swastika flags and distributing leaflets. Hitler soon gained notoriety for his rowdy polemic speeches against the Treaty of Versailles, rival politicians, and especially against Marxists and Jews.\n\nIn June 1921, while Hitler and Eckart were on a fundraising trip to Berlin, a mutiny broke out within the NSDAP in Munich. Members of its executive committee wanted to merge with the rival German Socialist Party (DSP). Hitler returned to Munich on 11 July and angrily tendered his resignation. The committee members realised that the resignation of their leading public figure and speaker would mean the end of the party. Hitler announced he would rejoin on the condition that he would replace Drexler as party chairman, and that the party headquarters would remain in Munich. The committee agreed, and he rejoined the party on 26 July as member 3,680. Hitler continued to face some opposition within the NSDAP: Opponents of Hitler in the leadership had Hermann Esser expelled from the party, and they printed 3,000 copies of a pamphlet attacking Hitler as a traitor to the party. In the following days, Hitler spoke to several packed houses and defended himself and Esser, to thunderous applause. His strategy proved successful, and at a special party congress on 29 July, he was granted absolute powers as party chairman, replacing Drexler, by a vote of 533to1.\n\nHitler's vitriolic beer hall speeches began attracting regular audiences. He became adept at using populist themes, including the use of scapegoats, who were blamed for his listeners' economic hardships. Hitler used personal magnetism and an understanding of crowd psychology to his advantage while engaged in public speaking. Historians have noted the hypnotic effect of his rhetoric on large audiences, and of his eyes in small groups. Algis Budrys recalled the crowd noise and behaviour when Hitler appeared in a 1936 parade; some in the audience writhed and rolled on the ground or experienced fecal incontinence. Alfons Heck, a former member of the Hitler Youth, recalled a similar experience:\nEarly followers included Rudolf Hess, former air force ace Hermann Göring, and army captain Ernst Röhm. Röhm became head of the Nazis' paramilitary organisation, the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA, \"Stormtroopers\"), which protected meetings and attacked political opponents. A critical influence on Hitler's thinking during this period was the \"Aufbau Vereinigung\", a conspiratorial group of White Russian exiles and early National Socialists. The group, financed with funds channelled from wealthy industrialists, introduced Hitler to the idea of a Jewish conspiracy, linking international finance with Bolshevism.\n\nThe programme of the NSDAP, known colloquially as the \"Nazi Party\", was laid out in their 25-point programme on 24 February 1920. This did not represent a coherent ideology, but was a conglomeration of received ideas which had currency in the \"völkisch\" Pan-Germanic movement, such as ultranationalism, opposition to the Treaty of Versailles, distrust of capitalism, as well as some socialist ideas. For Hitler, though, the most important aspect of it was its strong anti-Semitic stance. He also perceived the programme as primarily a basis for propaganda and for attracting people to the party.\n\nHitler and the NSDAP were not, fundamentally, reactionaries – although they did look back to a mythic halcyon Germany of the past – but were, instead, revolutionary. They sought \"the destruction of existing political and social structure and their supporting elites [and had] profound disdain for civil order, for human and moral values\" and for the ideas of classical liberalism as well as those of Marxism.\n\nIn 1923 Hitler enlisted the help of World War I General Erich Ludendorff for an attempted coup known as the \"Beer Hall Putsch\". The NSDAP used Italian Fascism as a model for their appearance and policies. Hitler wanted to emulate Benito Mussolini's \"March on Rome\" of 1922 by staging his own coup in Bavaria, to be followed by a challenge to the government in Berlin. Hitler and Ludendorff sought the support of \"Staatskommissar\" (state commissioner) Gustav Ritter von Kahr, Bavaria's \"de facto\" ruler. However, Kahr, along with Police Chief Hans Ritter von Seisser and Reichswehr General Otto von Lossow, wanted to install a nationalist dictatorship without Hitler.\n\nOn 8 November 1923 Hitler and the SA stormed a public meeting of 3,000 people organised by Kahr in the Bürgerbräukeller, a beer hall in Munich. Interrupting Kahr's speech, he announced that the national revolution had begun and declared the formation of a new government with Ludendorff. Retiring to a back room, Hitler, with handgun drawn, demanded and got the support of Kahr, Seisser, and Lossow. Hitler's forces initially succeeded in occupying the local Reichswehr and police headquarters, but Kahr and his cohorts quickly withdrew their support. Neither the army, nor the state police, joined forces with Hitler. The next day, Hitler and his followers marched from the beer hall to the Bavarian War Ministry to overthrow the Bavarian government, but police dispersed them. Sixteen NSDAP members and four police officers were killed in the failed coup.\n\nHitler fled to the home of Ernst Hanfstaengl and by some accounts contemplated suicide. He was depressed but calm when arrested on 11 November 1923 for high treason. His trial before the special People's Court in Munich began in February 1924, and Alfred Rosenberg became temporary leader of the NSDAP. On 1 April, Hitler was sentenced to five years' imprisonment at Landsberg Prison. There, he received friendly treatment from the guards, and was allowed mail from supporters and regular visits by party comrades. Pardoned by the Bavarian Supreme Court, he was released from jail on 20 December 1924, against the state prosecutor's objections. Including time on remand, Hitler served just over one year in prison.\n\nWhile at Landsberg, Hitler dictated most of the first volume of \"Mein Kampf\" (\"My Struggle\"; originally entitled \"Four and a Half Years of Struggle against Lies, Stupidity, and Cowardice\") to his deputy, Rudolf Hess. The book, dedicated to Thule Society member Dietrich Eckart, was an autobiography and exposition of his ideology. The book laid out Hitler's plans for transforming German society into one based on race. Some passages imply genocide. Published in two volumes in 1925 and 1926, it sold 228,000 copies between 1925 and 1932. One million copies were sold in 1933, Hitler's first year in office.\n\nShortly before Hitler was eligible for parole, the Bavarian government attempted to have him deported back to Austria. The Austrian federal chancellor rejected the request on the specious grounds that his service in the German Army made his Austrian citizenship void. In response, Hitler formally renounced his Austrian citizenship on 7 April 1925.\n\nAt the time of Hitler's release from prison, politics in Germany had become less combative and the economy had improved, limiting Hitler's opportunities for political agitation. As a result of the failed Beer Hall Putsch, the Nazi Party and its affiliated organisations were banned in Bavaria. In a meeting with the Prime Minister of Bavaria Heinrich Held on 4 January 1925, Hitler agreed to respect the state's authority and promised that he would seek political power only through the democratic process. The meeting paved the way for the ban on the NSDAP to be lifted on 16 February. However, after an inflammatory speech he gave on 27 February, Hitler was barred from public speaking by the Bavarian authorities, a ban that remained in place until 1927. To advance his political ambitions in spite of the ban, Hitler appointed Gregor Strasser, Otto Strasser and Joseph Goebbels to organise and grow the NSDAP in northern Germany. Gregor Strasser steered a more independent political course, emphasising the socialist elements of the party's programme.\n\nThe stock market in the United States crashed on 24 October 1929. The impact in Germany was dire: millions were thrown out of work and several major banks collapsed. Hitler and the NSDAP prepared to take advantage of the emergency to gain support for their party. They promised to repudiate the Versailles Treaty, strengthen the economy, and provide jobs.\n\nThe Great Depression provided a political opportunity for Hitler. Germans were ambivalent about the parliamentary republic, which faced challenges from right- and left-wing extremists. The moderate political parties were increasingly unable to stem the tide of extremism, and the German referendum of 1929 helped to elevate Nazi ideology. The elections of September 1930 resulted in the break-up of a grand coalition and its replacement with a minority cabinet. Its leader, chancellor Heinrich Brüning of the Centre Party, governed through emergency decrees from President Paul von Hindenburg. Governance by decree became the new norm and paved the way for authoritarian forms of government. The NSDAP rose from obscurity to win 18.3 percent of the vote and 107 parliamentary seats in the 1930 election, becoming the second-largest party in parliament.\n\nHitler made a prominent appearance at the trial of two Reichswehr officers, Lieutenants Richard Scheringer and Hans Ludin, in late 1930. Both were charged with membership in the NSDAP, at that time illegal for Reichswehr personnel. The prosecution argued that the NSDAP was an extremist party, prompting defence lawyer Hans Frank to call on Hitler to testify. On 25 September 1930, Hitler testified that his party would pursue political power solely through democratic elections, which won him many supporters in the officer corps.\n\nBrüning's austerity measures brought little economic improvement and were extremely unpopular. Hitler exploited this by targeting his political messages specifically at people who had been affected by the inflation of the 1920s and the Depression, such as farmers, war veterans, and the middle class.\n\nAlthough Hitler had terminated his Austrian citizenship in 1925, he did not acquire German citizenship for almost seven years. This meant that he was stateless, legally unable to run for public office, and still faced the risk of deportation. On 25 February 1932, the interior minister of Brunswick, Dietrich Klagges, who was a member of the NSDAP, appointed Hitler as administrator for the state's delegation to the Reichsrat in Berlin, making Hitler a citizen of Brunswick, and thus of Germany.\n\nHitler ran against Hindenburg in the 1932 presidential elections. A speech to the Industry Club in Düsseldorf on 27 January 1932 won him support from many of Germany's most powerful industrialists. Hindenburg had support from various nationalist, monarchist, Catholic, and republican parties, and some Social Democrats. Hitler used the campaign slogan \"Hitler über Deutschland\" (\"Hitler over Germany\"), a reference to his political ambitions and his campaigning by aircraft. He was one of the first politicians to use aircraft travel for political purposes, and used it effectively. Hitler came in second in both rounds of the election, garnering more than 35 percent of the vote in the final election. Although he lost to Hindenburg, this election established Hitler as a strong force in German politics.\n\nThe absence of an effective government prompted two influential politicians, Franz von Papen and Alfred Hugenberg, along with several other industrialists and businessmen, to write a letter to Hindenburg. The signers urged Hindenburg to appoint Hitler as leader of a government \"independent from parliamentary parties\", which could turn into a movement that would \"enrapture millions of people\".\n\nHindenburg reluctantly agreed to appoint Hitler as chancellor after two further parliamentary elections—in July and November 1932—had not resulted in the formation of a majority government. Hitler headed a short-lived coalition government formed by the NSDAP and Hugenberg's party, the German National People's Party (DNVP). On 30 January 1933, the new cabinet was sworn in during a brief ceremony in Hindenburg's office. The NSDAP gained three posts: Hitler was named chancellor, Wilhelm Frick Minister of the Interior, and Hermann Göring Minister of the Interior for Prussia. Hitler had insisted on the ministerial positions as a way to gain control over the police in much of Germany.\n\nAs chancellor, Hitler worked against attempts by the NSDAP's opponents to build a majority government. Because of the political stalemate, he asked Hindenburg to again dissolve the Reichstag, and elections were scheduled for early March. On 27 February 1933, the Reichstag building was set on fire. Göring blamed a communist plot, because Dutch communist Marinus van der Lubbe was found in incriminating circumstances inside the burning building. According to Kershaw, the consensus of nearly all historians is that van der Lubbe actually set the fire. Others, including William L. Shirer and Alan Bullock, are of the opinion that the NSDAP itself was responsible. At Hitler's urging, Hindenburg responded with the Reichstag Fire Decree of 28 February, which suspended basic rights and allowed detention without trial. The decree was permitted under Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution, which gave the president the power to take emergency measures to protect public safety and order. Activities of the German Communist Party (KPD) were suppressed, and some 4,000 KPD members were arrested.\n\nIn addition to political campaigning, the NSDAP engaged in paramilitary violence and the spread of anti-communist propaganda in the days preceding the election. On election day, 6 March 1933, the NSDAP's share of the vote increased to 43.9 percent, and the party acquired the largest number of seats in parliament. Hitler's party failed to secure an absolute majority, necessitating another coalition with the DNVP.\n\nOn 21 March 1933, the new Reichstag was constituted with an opening ceremony at the Garrison Church in Potsdam. This \"Day of Potsdam\" was held to demonstrate unity between the Nazi movement and the old Prussian elite and military. Hitler appeared in a morning coat and humbly greeted Hindenburg.\n\nTo achieve full political control despite not having an absolute majority in parliament, Hitler's government brought the \"Ermächtigungsgesetz\" (Enabling Act) to a vote in the newly elected Reichstag. The Act—officially titled the \"Gesetz zur Behebung der Not von Volk und Reich\" (\"Law to Remedy the Distress of People and Reich\")—gave Hitler's cabinet the power to enact laws without the consent of the Reichstag for four years. These laws could (with certain exceptions) deviate from the constitution. Since it would affect the constitution, the Enabling Act required a two-thirds majority to pass. Leaving nothing to chance, the Nazis used the provisions of the Reichstag Fire Decree to arrest all 81 Communist deputies (in spite of their virulent campaign against the party, the Nazis had allowed the KPD to contest the election) and prevent several Social Democrats from attending.\n\nOn 23 March 1933, the Reichstag assembled at the Kroll Opera House under turbulent circumstances. Ranks of SA men served as guards inside the building, while large groups outside opposing the proposed legislation shouted slogans and threats towards the arriving members of parliament. The position of the Centre Party, the third largest party in the Reichstag, was decisive. After Hitler verbally promised party leader Ludwig Kaas that Hindenburg would retain his power of veto, Kaas announced the Centre Party would support the Enabling Act. The Act passed by a vote of 441–84, with all parties except the Social Democrats voting in favour. The Enabling Act, along with the Reichstag Fire Decree, transformed Hitler's government into a de facto legal dictatorship.\n\nHaving achieved full control over the legislative and executive branches of government, Hitler and his allies began to suppress the remaining opposition. The Social Democratic Party was banned and its assets seized. While many trade union delegates were in Berlin for May Day activities, SA stormtroopers demolished union offices around the country. On 2 May 1933 all trade unions were forced to dissolve and their leaders were arrested. Some were sent to concentration camps. The German Labour Front was formed as an umbrella organisation to represent all workers, administrators, and company owners, thus reflecting the concept of national socialism in the spirit of Hitler's \"Volksgemeinschaft\" (\"people's community\").\n\nBy the end of June, the other parties had been intimidated into disbanding. This included the Nazis' nominal coalition partner, the DNVP; with the SA's help, Hitler forced its leader, Hugenberg, to resign on 29 June. On 14 July 1933, the NSDAP was declared the only legal political party in Germany. The demands of the SA for more political and military power caused anxiety among military, industrial, and political leaders. In response, Hitler purged the entire SA leadership in the Night of the Long Knives, which took place from 30 June to 2 July 1934. Hitler targeted Ernst Röhm and other SA leaders who, along with a number of Hitler's political adversaries (such as Gregor Strasser and former chancellor Kurt von Schleicher), were rounded up, arrested, and shot. While the international community and some Germans were shocked by the murders, many in Germany believed Hitler was restoring order.\n\nOn 2 August 1934, Hindenburg died. The previous day, the cabinet had enacted the \"Law Concerning the Highest State Office of the Reich\". This law stated that upon Hindenburg's death, the office of president would be abolished and its powers merged with those of the chancellor. Hitler thus became head of state as well as head of government, and was formally named as \"Führer und Reichskanzler\" (leader and chancellor), although \"Reichskanzler\" was eventually quietly dropped. With this action, Hitler eliminated the last legal remedy by which he could be removed from office.\n\nAs head of state, Hitler became commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Immediately after Hindenberg's death, at the instigation of the leadership of the \"Reichswehr\", the traditional loyalty oath of soldiers was altered to affirm loyalty to Hitler personally, by name, rather than to the office of commander-in-chief (which was later renamed to supreme commander) or the state. On 19 August, the merger of the presidency with the chancellorship was approved by 88 percent of the electorate voting in a plebiscite.\n\nIn early 1938, Hitler used blackmail to consolidate his hold over the military by instigating the Blomberg–Fritsch Affair. Hitler forced his War Minister, Field Marshal Werner von Blomberg, to resign by using a police dossier that showed that Blomberg's new wife had a record for prostitution. Army commander Colonel-General Werner von Fritsch was removed after the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) produced allegations that he had engaged in a homosexual relationship. Both men had fallen into disfavour because they objected to Hitler's demand to make the \"Wehrmacht\" ready for war as early as 1938. Hitler assumed Blomberg's title of Commander-in-Chief, thus taking personal command of the armed forces. He replaced the Ministry of War with the \"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\" (OKW), headed by General Wilhelm Keitel. On the same day, sixteen generals were stripped of their commands and 44 more were transferred; all were suspected of not being sufficiently pro-Nazi. By early February 1938, twelve more generals had been removed.\n\nHitler took care to give his dictatorship the appearance of legality. Many of his decrees were explicitly based on the Reichstag Fire Decree and hence on Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution. The Reichstag renewed the Enabling Act twice, each time for a four-year period. While elections to the Reichstag were still held (in 1933, 1936, and 1938), voters were presented with a single list of Nazis and pro-Nazi \"guests\" which carried with well over 90 percent of the vote. These elections were held in far-from-secret conditions; the Nazis threatened severe reprisals against anyone who didn't vote or dared to vote no.\n\nIn August 1934, Hitler appointed \"Reichsbank\" President Hjalmar Schacht as Minister of Economics, and in the following year, as Plenipotentiary for War Economy in charge of preparing the economy for war. Reconstruction and rearmament were financed through Mefo bills, printing money, and seizing the assets of people arrested as enemies of the State, including Jews. Unemployment fell from six million in 1932 to one million in 1936. Hitler oversaw one of the largest infrastructure improvement campaigns in German history, leading to the construction of dams, autobahns, railroads, and other civil works. Wages were slightly lower in the mid to late 1930s compared with wages during the Weimar Republic, while the cost of living increased by 25 percent. The average work week increased during the shift to a war economy; by 1939, the average German was working between 47 and 50 hours a week.\n\nHitler's government sponsored architecture on an immense scale. Albert Speer, instrumental in implementing Hitler's classicist reinterpretation of German culture, was placed in charge of the proposed architectural renovations of Berlin. Despite a threatened multi-nation boycott, Germany hosted the 1936 Olympic Games. Hitler officiated at the opening ceremonies and attended events at both the Winter Games in Garmisch-Partenkirchen and the Summer Games in Berlin.\n\nIn a meeting with German military leaders on 3 February 1933, Hitler spoke of \"conquest for \"Lebensraum\" in the East and its ruthless \"Germanisation\"\" as his ultimate foreign policy objectives. In March, Prince Bernhard Wilhelm von Bülow, secretary at the Auswärtiges Amt (Foreign Office), issued a statement of major foreign policy aims: \"Anschluss\" with Austria, the restoration of Germany's national borders of 1914, rejection of military restrictions under the Treaty of Versailles, the return of the former German colonies in Africa, and a German zone of influence in Eastern Europe. Hitler found Bülow's goals to be too modest. In speeches during this period, he stressed the peaceful goals of his policies and a willingness to work within international agreements. At the first meeting of his cabinet in 1933, Hitler prioritised military spending over unemployment relief.\nGermany withdrew from the League of Nations and the World Disarmament Conference in October 1933. In January 1935, over 90 percent of the people of the Saarland, then under League of Nations administration, voted to unite with Germany. That March, Hitler announced an expansion of the Wehrmacht to 600,000 members—six times the number permitted by the Versailles Treaty—including development of an air force (\"Luftwaffe\") and an increase in the size of the navy (\"Kriegsmarine\"). Britain, France, Italy, and the League of Nations condemned these violations of the Treaty, but did nothing to stop it. The Anglo-German Naval Agreement (AGNA) of 18 June allowed German tonnage to increase to 35 percent of that of the British navy. Hitler called the signing of the AGNA \"the happiest day of his life\", believing that the agreement marked the beginning of the Anglo-German alliance he had predicted in \"Mein Kampf\". France and Italy were not consulted before the signing, directly undermining the League of Nations and setting the Treaty of Versailles on the path towards irrelevance.\n\nGermany reoccupied the demilitarised zone in the Rhineland in March 1936, in violation of the Versailles Treaty. Hitler also sent troops to Spain to support General Franco during the Spanish Civil War after receiving an appeal for help in July 1936. At the same time, Hitler continued his efforts to create an Anglo-German alliance. In August 1936, in response to a growing economic crisis caused by his rearmament efforts, Hitler ordered Göring to implement a Four Year Plan to prepare Germany for war within the next four years. The plan envisaged an all-out struggle between \"Judeo-Bolshevism\" and German national socialism, which in Hitler's view required a committed effort of rearmament regardless of the economic costs.\n\nCount Galeazzo Ciano, foreign minister of Mussolini's government, declared an axis between Germany and Italy, and on 25 November, Germany signed the Anti-Comintern Pact with Japan. Britain, China, Italy, and Poland were also invited to join the Anti-Comintern Pact, but only Italy signed in 1937. Hitler abandoned his plan of an Anglo-German alliance, blaming \"inadequate\" British leadership. At a meeting in the Reich Chancellery with his foreign ministers and military chiefs that November, Hitler restated his intention of acquiring \"Lebensraum\" for the German people. He ordered preparations for war in the East, to begin as early as 1938 and no later than 1943. In the event of his death, the conference minutes, recorded as the Hossbach Memorandum, were to be regarded as his \"political testament\". He felt that a severe decline in living standards in Germany as a result of the economic crisis could only be stopped by military aggression aimed at seizing Austria and Czechoslovakia. Hitler urged quick action before Britain and France gained a permanent lead in the arms race. In early 1938, in the wake of the Blomberg–Fritsch Affair, Hitler asserted control of the military-foreign policy apparatus, dismissing Neurath as foreign minister and appointing himself as War Minister. From early 1938 onwards, Hitler was carrying out a foreign policy ultimately aimed at war.\nIn February 1938, on the advice of his newly appointed foreign minister, the strongly pro-Japanese Joachim von Ribbentrop, Hitler ended the Sino-German alliance with the Republic of China to instead enter into an alliance with the more modern and powerful Empire of Japan. Hitler announced German recognition of Manchukuo, the Japanese-occupied state in Manchuria, and renounced German claims to their former colonies in the Pacific held by Japan. Hitler ordered an end to arms shipments to China and recalled all German officers working with the Chinese Army. In retaliation, Chinese General Chiang Kai-shek cancelled all Sino-German economic agreements, depriving the Germans of many Chinese raw materials.\n\nOn 12 March 1938, Hitler announced the unification of Austria with Nazi Germany in the Anschluss. Hitler then turned his attention to the ethnic German population of the Sudetenland region of Czechoslovakia.\n\nOn 28–29 March 1938, Hitler held a series of secret meetings in Berlin with Konrad Henlein of the Sudeten German Party, the largest of the ethnic German parties of the Sudetenland. The men agreed that Henlein would demand increased autonomy for Sudeten Germans from the Czechoslovakian government, thus providing a pretext for German military action against Czechoslovakia. In April 1938 Henlein told the foreign minister of Hungary that \"whatever the Czech government might offer, he would always raise still higher demands ... he wanted to sabotage an understanding by any means because this was the only method to blow up Czechoslovakia quickly\". In private, Hitler considered the Sudeten issue unimportant; his real intention was a war of conquest against Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn April Hitler ordered the OKW to prepare for \n\"Fall Grün\" (Case Green), the code name for an invasion of Czechoslovakia. As a result of intense French and British diplomatic pressure, on 5 September Czechoslovakian President Edvard Beneš unveiled the \"Fourth Plan\" for constitutional reorganisation of his country, which agreed to most of Henlein's demands for Sudeten autonomy. Henlein's party responded to Beneš' offer by instigating a series of violent clashes with the Czechoslovakian police that led to the declaration of martial law in certain Sudeten districts.\n\nGermany was dependent on imported oil; a confrontation with Britain over the Czechoslovakian dispute could curtail Germany's oil supplies. This forced Hitler to call off \"Fall Grün\", originally planned for 1 October 1938. On 29 September Hitler, Neville Chamberlain, Édouard Daladier, and Mussolini attended a one-day conference in Munich that led to the Munich Agreement, which handed over the Sudetenland districts to Germany.\n\nChamberlain was satisfied with the Munich conference, calling the outcome \"peace for our time\", while Hitler was angered about the missed opportunity for war in 1938; he expressed his disappointment in a speech on 9 October in Saarbrücken. In Hitler's view, the British-brokered peace, although favourable to the ostensible German demands, was a diplomatic defeat which spurred his intent of limiting British power to pave the way for the eastern expansion of Germany. As a result of the summit, Hitler was selected \"Time\" magazine's Man of the Year for 1938.\n\nIn late 1938 and early 1939, the continuing economic crisis caused by rearmament forced Hitler to make major defence cuts. In his \"Export or die\" speech of 30 January 1939, he called for an economic offensive to increase German foreign exchange holdings to pay for raw materials such as high-grade iron needed for military weapons.\n\nOn 15 March 1939, in violation of the Munich accord and possibly as a result of the deepening economic crisis requiring additional assets, Hitler ordered the Wehrmacht to invade Prague, and from Prague Castle he proclaimed Bohemia and Moravia a German protectorate.\n\nIn private discussions in 1939, Hitler declared Britain the main enemy to be defeated and that Poland's obliteration was a necessary prelude for that goal. The eastern flank would be secured and land would be added to Germany's \"Lebensraum\". Offended by the British \"guarantee\" on 31 March 1939 of Polish independence, he said, \"I shall brew them a devil's drink\". In a speech in Wilhelmshaven for the launch of the battleship on 1 April, he threatened to denounce the Anglo-German Naval Agreement if the British continued to guarantee Polish independence, which he perceived as an \"encirclement\" policy. Poland was to either become a German satellite state or it would be neutralised in order to secure the Reich's eastern flank and prevent a possible British blockade. Hitler initially favoured the idea of a satellite state, but upon its rejection by the Polish government, he decided to invade and made this the main foreign policy goal of 1939. On 3 April, Hitler ordered the military to prepare for \"Fall Weiss\" (\"Case White\"), the plan for invading Poland on 25 August. In a Reichstag speech on 28 April, he renounced both the Anglo-German Naval Agreement and the German–Polish Non-Aggression Pact. Historians such as William Carr, Gerhard Weinberg, and Ian Kershaw have argued that one reason for Hitler's rush to war was his fear of an early death. He had repeatedly claimed that he must lead Germany into war before he got too old, as his successors might lack his strength of will.\nHitler was concerned that a military attack against Poland could result in a premature war with Britain. Hitler's foreign minister and former Ambassador to London, Joachim von Ribbentrop, assured him that neither Britain nor France would honour their commitments to Poland. Accordingly, on 22 August 1939 Hitler ordered a military mobilisation against Poland.\n\nThis plan required tacit Soviet support, and the non-aggression pact (the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact) between Germany and the Soviet Union, led by Joseph Stalin, included a secret agreement to partition Poland between the two countries. Contrary to Ribbentrop's prediction that Britain would sever Anglo-Polish ties, Britain and Poland signed the Anglo-Polish alliance on 25 August 1939. This, along with news from Italy that Mussolini would not honour the Pact of Steel, prompted Hitler to postpone the attack on Poland from 25 August to 1 September. Hitler unsuccessfully tried to manoeuvre the British into neutrality by offering them a non-aggression guarantee on 25 August; he then instructed Ribbentrop to present a last-minute peace plan with an impossibly short time limit in an effort to blame the imminent war on British and Polish inaction.\n\nOn 1 September 1939, Germany invaded western Poland under the pretext of having been denied claims to the Free City of Danzig and the right to extraterritorial roads across the Polish Corridor, which Germany had ceded under the Versailles Treaty. In response, Britain and France declared war on Germany on 3 September, surprising Hitler and prompting him to angrily ask Ribbentrop, \"Now what?\" France and Britain did not act on their declarations immediately, and on 17 September, Soviet forces invaded eastern Poland.\nThe fall of Poland was followed by what contemporary journalists dubbed the \"Phoney War\" or \"Sitzkrieg\" (\"sitting war\"). Hitler instructed the two newly appointed Gauleiters of north-western Poland, Albert Forster of Reichsgau Danzig-West Prussia and Arthur Greiser of Reichsgau Wartheland, to Germanise their areas, with \"no questions asked\" about how this was accomplished. In Forster's area, ethnic Poles merely had to sign forms stating that they had German blood. In contrast, Greiser agreed with Himmler and carried out an ethnic cleansing campaign towards Poles. Greiser soon complained that Forster was allowing thousands of Poles to be accepted as \"racial\" Germans and thus endangered German \"racial purity\". Hitler refrained from getting involved. This inaction has been advanced as an example of the theory of \"working towards the Führer\", in which Hitler issued vague instructions and expected his subordinates to work out policies on their own.\n\nAnother dispute pitched one side represented by Heinrich Himmler and Greiser, who championed ethnic cleansing in Poland, against another represented by Göring and Hans Frank (governor-general of occupied Poland), who called for turning Poland into the \"granary\" of the Reich. On 12 February 1940, the dispute was initially settled in favour of the Göring–Frank view, which ended the economically disruptive mass expulsions. On 15 May 1940, Himmler issued a memo entitled \"Some Thoughts on the Treatment of Alien Population in the East\", calling for the expulsion of the entire Jewish population of Europe into Africa and the reduction of the Polish population to a \"leaderless class of labourers\". Hitler called Himmler's memo \"good and correct\", and, ignoring Göring and Frank, implemented the Himmler–Greiser policy in Poland.\n\nOn 9 April, German forces invaded Denmark and Norway. On the same day Hitler proclaimed the birth of the Greater Germanic Reich, his vision of a united empire of Germanic nations of Europe in which the Dutch, Flemish, and Scandinavians were joined into a \"racially pure\" polity under German leadership. In May 1940, Germany attacked France, and conquered Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Belgium. These victories prompted Mussolini to have Italy join forces with Hitler on 10 June. France and Germany signed an armistice on 22 June. Kershaw notes that Hitler's popularity within Germany – and German support for the war – reached its peak when he returned to Berlin on 6 July from his tour of Paris. Following the unexpected swift victory, Hitler promoted twelve generals to the rank of field marshal during the 1940 Field Marshal Ceremony.\n\nBritain, whose troops were forced to evacuate France by sea from Dunkirk, continued to fight alongside other British dominions in the Battle of the Atlantic. Hitler made peace overtures to the new British leader, Winston Churchill, and upon their rejection he ordered a series of aerial attacks on Royal Air Force airbases and radar stations in south-east England. On 7 September the systematic nightly bombing of London began. The German Luftwaffe failed to defeat the Royal Air Force in what became known as the Battle of Britain. By the end of September, Hitler realised that air superiority for the invasion of Britain (in Operation Sea Lion) could not be achieved, and ordered the operation postponed. The nightly air raids on British cities intensified and continued for months, including London, Plymouth, and Coventry.\n\nOn 27 September 1940, the Tripartite Pact was signed in Berlin by Saburō Kurusu of Imperial Japan, Hitler, and Italian foreign minister Ciano, and later expanded to include Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria, thus yielding the Axis powers. Hitler's attempt to integrate the Soviet Union into the anti-British bloc failed after inconclusive talks between Hitler and Molotov in Berlin in November, and he ordered preparations for the invasion of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn early 1941, German forces were deployed to North Africa, the Balkans, and the Middle East. In February, German forces arrived in Libya to bolster the Italian presence. In April, Hitler launched the invasion of Yugoslavia, quickly followed by the invasion of Greece. In May, German forces were sent to support Iraqi rebel forces fighting against the British and to invade Crete.\n\nOn 22 June 1941, contravening the Hitler–Stalin Non-Aggression Pact of 1939, 4–5 million Axis troops attacked the Soviet Union. This offensive (codenamed Operation Barbarossa) was intended to destroy the Soviet Union and seize its natural resources for subsequent aggression against the Western powers. The invasion conquered a huge area, including the Baltic republics, Belarus, and West Ukraine. By early August, Axis troops had advanced and won the Battle of Smolensk. Hitler ordered Army Group Centre to temporarily halt its advance to Moscow and divert its Panzer groups to aid in the encirclement of Leningrad and Kiev. His generals disagreed with this change, having advanced within of Moscow, and his decision caused a crisis among the military leadership. The pause provided the Red Army with an opportunity to mobilise fresh reserves; historian Russel Stolfi considers it to be one of the major factors that caused the failure of the Moscow offensive, which was resumed in October 1941 and ended disastrously in December. During this crisis, Hitler appointed himself as head of the \"Oberkommando des Heeres\".\nOn 7 December 1941, Japan attacked the American fleet based at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Four days later, Hitler declared war against the United States.\n\nOn 18 December 1941, Himmler asked Hitler, \"What to do with the Jews of Russia?\", to which Hitler replied, \"als Partisanen auszurotten\" (\"exterminate them as partisans\"). Israeli historian Yehuda Bauer has commented that the remark is probably as close as historians will ever get to a definitive order from Hitler for the genocide carried out during the Holocaust.\n\nIn late 1942, German forces were defeated in the second battle of El Alamein, thwarting Hitler's plans to seize the Suez Canal and the Middle East. Overconfident in his own military expertise following the earlier victories in 1940, Hitler became distrustful of his Army High Command and began to interfere in military and tactical planning, with damaging consequences. In December 1942 and January 1943, Hitler's repeated refusal to allow their withdrawal at the Battle of Stalingrad led to the almost total destruction of the 6th Army. Over 200,000 Axis soldiers were killed and 235,000 were taken prisoner. Thereafter came a decisive strategic defeat at the Battle of Kursk. Hitler's military judgement became increasingly erratic, and Germany's military and economic position deteriorated, as did Hitler's health.\nFollowing the allied invasion of Sicily in 1943, Mussolini was removed from power by Victor Emmanuel III after a vote of no confidence of the Grand Council. Marshal Pietro Badoglio, placed in charge of the government, soon surrendered to the Allies. Throughout 1943 and 1944, the Soviet Union steadily forced Hitler's armies into retreat along the Eastern Front. On 6 June 1944, the Western Allied armies landed in northern France in one of the largest amphibious operations in history, Operation Overlord. Many German officers concluded that defeat was inevitable and that continuing under Hitler's leadership would result in the complete destruction of the country.\n\nBetween 1939 and 1945, there were many plans to assassinate Hitler, some of which proceeded to significant degrees. The most well known, the 20 July plot of 1944, came from within Germany and was at least partly driven by the increasing prospect of a German defeat in the war. Part of Operation Valkyrie, the plot involved Claus von Stauffenberg planting a bomb in one of Hitler's headquarters, the Wolf's Lair at Rastenburg. Hitler narrowly survived because staff officer Heinz Brandt moved the briefcase containing the bomb behind a leg of the heavy conference table, which deflected much of the blast. Later, Hitler ordered savage reprisals resulting in the execution of more than 4,900 people.\n\nBy late 1944, both the Red Army and the Western Allies were advancing into Germany. Recognising the strength and determination of the Red Army, Hitler decided to use his remaining mobile reserves against the American and British troops, which he perceived as far weaker. On 16 December, he launched the Ardennes Offensive to incite disunity among the Western Allies and perhaps convince them to join his fight against the Soviets. The offensive failed after some temporary successes. With much of Germany in ruins in January 1945, Hitler spoke on the radio: \"However grave as the crisis may be at this moment, it will, despite everything, be mastered by our unalterable will.\" Acting on his view that Germany's military failures meant it had forfeited its right to survive as a nation, Hitler ordered the destruction of all German industrial infrastructure before it could fall into Allied hands. Minister for Armaments Albert Speer was entrusted with executing this scorched earth policy, but he secretly disobeyed the order. Hitler's hope to negotiate peace with the United States and Britain was encouraged by the death of US President Franklin D. Roosevelt on 12 April 1945, but contrary to his expectations, this caused no rift among the Allies.\n\nOn 20 April, his 56thbirthday, Hitler made his last trip from the \"Führerbunker\" (Führer's shelter) to the surface. In the ruined garden of the Reich Chancellery, he awarded Iron Crosses to boy soldiers of the Hitler Youth, who were now fighting the Red Army at the front near Berlin. By 21 April, Georgy Zhukov's 1st Belorussian Front had broken through the defences of General Gotthard Heinrici's Army Group Vistula during the Battle of the Seelow Heights and advanced to the outskirts of Berlin. In denial about the dire situation, Hitler placed his hopes on the undermanned and under-equipped \"Armeeabteilung Steiner\" (Army Detachment Steiner), commanded by Waffen-SS General Felix Steiner. Hitler ordered Steiner to attack the northern flank of the salient, while the German Ninth Army was ordered to attack northward in a pincer attack.\n\nDuring a military conference on 22 April, Hitler asked about Steiner's offensive. He was told that the attack had not been launched and that the Soviets had entered Berlin. Hitler asked everyone except Wilhelm Keitel, Alfred Jodl, Hans Krebs, and Wilhelm Burgdorf to leave the room, then launched into a tirade against the treachery and incompetence of his commanders, culminating in his declaration—for the first time—that \"everything was lost\". He announced that he would stay in Berlin until the end and then shoot himself.\n\nBy 23 April the Red Army had surrounded Berlin, and Goebbels made a proclamation urging its citizens to defend the city. That same day, Göring sent a telegram from Berchtesgaden, arguing that since Hitler was isolated in Berlin, Göring should assume leadership of Germany. Göring set a deadline, after which he would consider Hitler incapacitated. Hitler responded by having Göring arrested, and in his last will and testament of 29 April, he removed Göring from all government positions. On 28 April Hitler discovered that Himmler, who had left Berlin on 20 April, was trying to negotiate a surrender to the Western Allies. He ordered Himmler's arrest and had Hermann Fegelein (Himmler's SS representative at Hitler's HQ in Berlin) shot.\n\nAfter midnight on 29 April, Hitler married Eva Braun in a small civil ceremony in the \"Führerbunker\". Later that afternoon, Hitler was informed of the execution of Mussolini, which presumably increased his determination to avoid capture.\n\nOn 30 April 1945, when Soviet troops were within a block or two of the Reich Chancellery, Hitler shot himself in the head and Braun bit into a cyanide capsule. Their bodies were carried outside to the garden behind the Reich Chancellery, where they were placed in a bomb crater, doused with petrol, and set on fire as the Red Army shelling continued. Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz and Joseph Goebbels assumed Hitler's roles as head of state and chancellor respectively.\n\nBerlin surrendered on 2 May. Records in the Soviet archives obtained after the fall of the Soviet Union state that the remains of Hitler, Braun, Joseph and Magda Goebbels, the six Goebbels children, General Hans Krebs, and Hitler's dogs were repeatedly buried and exhumed. On 4 April 1970, a Soviet KGB team used detailed burial charts to exhume five wooden boxes at the SMERSH facility in Magdeburg. The remains from the boxes were burned, crushed, and scattered into the Biederitz river, a tributary of the Elbe. According to Kershaw, the corpses of Braun and Hitler were fully burned when the Red Army found them, and only a lower jaw with dental work could be identified as Hitler's remains.\n\nThe Holocaust and Germany's war in the East were based on Hitler's long-standing view that the Jews were the enemy of the German people and that \"Lebensraum\" was needed for Germany's expansion. He focused on Eastern Europe for this expansion, aiming to defeat Poland and the Soviet Union and then removing or killing the Jews and Slavs. The \"Generalplan Ost\" (General Plan East) called for deporting the population of occupied Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union to West Siberia, for use as slave labour or to be murdered; the conquered territories were to be colonised by German or \"Germanised\" settlers. The goal was to implement this plan after the conquest of the Soviet Union, but when this failed, Hitler moved the plans forward. By January 1942, he had decided that the Jews, Slavs, and other deportees considered undesirable should be killed.\n\nThe genocide was organised and executed by Heinrich Himmler and Reinhard Heydrich. The records of the Wannsee Conference, held on 20 January 1942 and led by Heydrich, with fifteen senior Nazi officials participating, provide the clearest evidence of systematic planning for the Holocaust. On 22 February, Hitler was recorded saying, \"we shall regain our health only by eliminating the Jews\". Similarly, at a meeting in July 1941 with leading functionaries of the Eastern territories, Hitler said that the easiest way to quickly pacify the areas would be best achieved by \"shooting everyone who even looks odd\". Although no direct order from Hitler authorising the mass killings has surfaced, his public speeches, orders to his generals, and the diaries of Nazi officials demonstrate that he conceived and authorised the extermination of European Jewry. During the war, Hitler repeatedly stated his prophecy of 1939 was being fulfilled, namely, that a world war would bring about the annihilation of the Jewish race. Hitler approved the \"Einsatzgruppen\"—killing squads that followed the German army through Poland, the Baltic, and the Soviet Union—and was well informed about their activities. By summer 1942, Auschwitz concentration camp was expanded to accommodate large numbers of deportees for killing or enslavement. Scores of other concentration camps and satellite camps were set up throughout Europe, with several camps devoted exclusively to extermination.\n\nBetween 1939 and 1945, the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS), assisted by collaborationist governments and recruits from occupied countries, was responsible for the deaths of at least eleven million non-combatants, including 5.5 to 6 million Jews (representing two-thirds of the Jewish population of Europe), and between 200,000 and 1,500,000 Romani people. Deaths took place in concentration and extermination camps, ghettos, and through mass executions. Many victims of the Holocaust were gassed to death, while others died of starvation or disease or while working as slave labourers. In addition to eliminating Jews, the Nazis planned to reduce the population of the conquered territories by 30 million people through starvation in an action called the Hunger Plan. Food supplies would be diverted to the German army and German civilians. Cities would be razed and the land allowed to return to forest or resettled by German colonists. Together, the Hunger Plan and \"Generalplan Ost\" would have led to the starvation of 80 million people in the Soviet Union. These partially fulfilled plans resulted in additional deaths, bringing the total number of civilians and prisoners of war who died in the democide to an estimated 19.3 million people.\n\nHitler's policies resulted in the killing of nearly two million non-Jewish Poles, over three million Soviet prisoners of war, communists and other political opponents, homosexuals, the physically and mentally disabled, Jehovah's Witnesses, Adventists, and trade unionists. Hitler did not speak publicly about the killings, and seems never to have visited the concentration camps.\n\nThe Nazis embraced the concept of racial hygiene. On 15 September 1935, Hitler presented two laws—known as the Nuremberg Laws—to the Reichstag. The laws banned sexual relations and marriages between Aryans and Jews and were later extended to include \"Gypsies, Negroes or their bastard offspring\". The laws stripped all non-Aryans of their German citizenship and forbade the employment of non-Jewish women under the age of 45 in Jewish households. Hitler's early eugenic policies targeted children with physical and developmental disabilities in a programme dubbed Action Brandt, and he later authorised a euthanasia programme for adults with serious mental and physical disabilities, now referred to as \"Aktion T4\".\n\nHitler ruled the NSDAP autocratically by asserting the \"Führerprinzip\" (leader principle). The principle relied on absolute obedience of all subordinates to their superiors; thus he viewed the government structure as a pyramid, with himself—the infallible leader—at the apex. Rank in the party was not determined by elections—positions were filled through appointment by those of higher rank, who demanded unquestioning obedience to the will of the leader. Hitler's leadership style was to give contradictory orders to his subordinates and to place them into positions where their duties and responsibilities overlapped with those of others, to have \"the stronger one [do] the job\". In this way, Hitler fostered distrust, competition, and infighting among his subordinates to consolidate and maximise his own power. His cabinet never met after 1938, and he discouraged his ministers from meeting independently. Hitler typically did not give written orders; instead he communicated verbally, or had them conveyed through his close associate, Martin Bormann. He entrusted Bormann with his paperwork, appointments, and personal finances; Bormann used his position to control the flow of information and access to Hitler.\n\nHitler dominated his country's war effort during World War II to a greater extent than any other national leader. He strengthened his control of the armed forces in 1938, and subsequently made all major decisions regarding Germany's military strategy. His decision to mount a risky series of offensives against Norway, France, and the Low Countries in 1940 against the advice of the military proved successful, though the diplomatic and military strategies he employed in attempts to force the United Kingdom out of the war ended in failure. Hitler deepened his involvement in the war effort by appointing himself commander-in-chief of the Army in December 1941; from this point forward he personally directed the war against the Soviet Union, while his military commanders facing the Western Allies retained a degree of autonomy. Hitler's leadership became increasingly disconnected from reality as the war turned against Germany, with the military's defensive strategies often hindered by his slow decision making and frequent directives to hold untenable positions. Nevertheless, he continued to believe that only his leadership could deliver victory. In the final months of the war Hitler refused to consider peace negotiations, regarding the complete destruction of Germany as preferable to surrender. The military did not challenge Hitler's dominance of the war effort, and senior officers generally supported and enacted his decisions.\n\nHitler's suicide was likened by contemporaries to a \"spell\" being broken. Public support for Hitler had collapsed by the time of his death and few Germans mourned his passing; Kershaw argues that most civilians and military personnel were too busy adjusting to the collapse of the country or fleeing from the fighting to take any interest. According to historian John Toland, National Socialism \"burst like a bubble\" without its leader.\n\nHitler's actions and Nazi ideology are almost universally regarded as gravely immoral; according to Kershaw, \"Never in history has such ruination—physical and moral—been associated with the name of one man\". Hitler's political programme brought about a world war, leaving behind a devastated and impoverished Eastern and Central Europe. Germany itself suffered wholesale destruction, characterised as \"Stunde Null\" (Zero Hour). Hitler's policies inflicted human suffering on an unprecedented scale; according to R. J. Rummel, the Nazi regime was responsible for the democidal killing of an estimated 19.3 million civilians and prisoners of war. In addition, 28.7million soldiers and civilians died as a result of military action in the European Theatre of World War II. The number of civilians killed during the Second World War was unprecedented in the history of warfare. Historians, philosophers, and politicians often use the word \"evil\" to describe the Nazi regime. Many European countries have criminalised both the promotion of Nazism and Holocaust denial.\n\nHistorian Friedrich Meinecke described Hitler as \"one of the great examples of the singular and incalculable power of personality in historical life\". English historian Hugh Trevor-Roper saw him as \"among the 'terrible simplifiers' of history, the most systematic, the most historical, the most philosophical, and yet the coarsest, cruelest, least magnanimous conqueror the world has ever known\". For the historian John M. Roberts, Hitler's defeat marked the end of a phase of European history dominated by Germany. In its place emerged the Cold War, a global confrontation between the Western Bloc, dominated by the United States and other NATO nations, and the Eastern Bloc, dominated by the Soviet Union. Historian Sebastian Haffner avers that without Hitler and the displacement of the Jews, the modern nation state of Israel would not exist. He contends that without Hitler, the de-colonisation of former European spheres of influence would have been postponed. Further, Haffner claims that other than Alexander the Great, Hitler had a more significant impact than any other comparable historical figure, in that he too caused a wide range of worldwide changes in a relatively short time span.\n\nHitler was born to a practising Catholic mother and an anticlerical father; after leaving home Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments. Speer states that Hitler railed against the church to his political associates and though he never officially left it, he had no attachment to it. He adds that Hitler felt that in the absence of organised religion, people would turn to mysticism, which he considered regressive. According to Speer, Hitler believed that Japanese religious beliefs or Islam would have been a more suitable religion for Germans than Christianity, with its \"meekness and flabbiness\".\n\nHistorian John S. Conway states that Hitler was fundamentally opposed to the Christian churches. According to Bullock, Hitler did not believe in God, was anticlerical, and held Christian ethics in contempt because they contravened his preferred view of \"survival of the fittest\". He favoured aspects of Protestantism that suited his own views, and adopted some elements of the Catholic Church's hierarchical organisation, liturgy, and phraseology.\n\nHitler viewed the church as an important politically conservative influence on society, and he adopted a strategic relationship with it that \"suited his immediate political purposes\". In public, Hitler often praised Christian heritage and German Christian culture, though professing a belief in an \"Aryan Jesus\" who fought against the Jews. Any pro-Christian public rhetoric contradicted his private statements, which described Christianity as \"absurdity\" and nonsense founded on lies.\n\nAccording to a US Office of Strategic Services (OSS) report, \"The Nazi Master Plan\", Hitler planned to destroy the influence of Christian churches within the Reich. His eventual goal was the total elimination of Christianity. This goal informed Hitler's movement early on, but he saw it as inexpedient to publicly express this extreme position. According to Bullock, Hitler wanted to wait until after the war before executing this plan.\n\nSpeer wrote that Hitler had a negative view of Himmler's and Alfred Rosenberg's mystical notions and Himmler's attempt to mythologise the SS. Hitler was more pragmatic, and his ambitions centred on more practical concerns.\n\nResearchers have variously suggested that Hitler suffered from irritable bowel syndrome, skin lesions, irregular heartbeat, coronary sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, syphilis, giant-cell arteritis, and tinnitus. In a report prepared for the OSS in 1943, Walter C. Langer of Harvard University described Hitler as a \"neurotic psychopath\". In his 1977 book \"\", historian Robert G. L. Waite proposes that he suffered from borderline personality disorder. Historians Henrik Eberle and Hans-Joachim Neumann consider that while he suffered from a number of illnesses including Parkinson's disease, Hitler did not experience pathological delusions and was always fully aware of, and therefore responsible for, his decisions. Theories about Hitler's medical condition are difficult to prove, and placing too much weight on them may have the effect of attributing many of the events and consequences of Nazi Germany to the possibly impaired physical health of one individual. Kershaw feels that it is better to take a broader view of German history by examining what social forces led to the Nazi dictatorship and its policies rather than to pursue narrow explanations for the Holocaust and World WarII based on only one person.\n\nHitler followed a vegetarian diet. At social events he sometimes gave graphic accounts of the slaughter of animals in an effort to make his guests shun meat. Bormann had a greenhouse constructed near the Berghof (near Berchtesgaden) to ensure a steady supply of fresh fruit and vegetables for Hitler. Hitler publicly avoided alcohol. He occasionally drank beer and wine in private, but gave up drinking because of weight gain in 1943. He was a non-smoker for most of his adult life, but smoked heavily in his youth (25 to 40 cigarettes a day); he eventually quit, calling the habit \"a waste of money\". He encouraged his close associates to quit by offering a gold watch to anyone able to break the habit. Hitler began using amphetamine occasionally after 1937 and became addicted to it in late 1942. Speer linked this use of amphetamine to Hitler's increasingly erratic behaviour and inflexible decision making (for example, rarely allowing military retreats).\n\nPrescribed 90 medications during the war years by his personal physician, Theodor Morell, Hitler took many pills each day for chronic stomach problems and other ailments. He regularly consumed amphetamine, barbiturates, opiates, and cocaine, as well as potassium bromide and atropa belladonna (the latter in the form of Doktor Koster's Antigaspills). He suffered ruptured eardrums as a result of the 20 July plot bomb blast in 1944, and 200 wood splinters had to be removed from his legs. Newsreel footage of Hitler shows tremors in his left hand and a shuffling walk, which began before the war and worsened towards the end of his life. Ernst-Günther Schenck and several other doctors who met Hitler in the last weeks of his life also formed a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.\n\nHitler created a public image as a celibate man without a domestic life, dedicated entirely to his political mission and the nation. He met his lover, Eva Braun, in 1929, and married her on 29 April 1945. In September 1931, his half-niece, Geli Raubal, took her own life with Hitler's gun in his Munich apartment. It was rumoured among contemporaries that Geli was in a romantic relationship with him, and her death was a source of deep, lasting pain. Paula Hitler, the younger sister of Hitler and the last living member of his immediate family, died in June 1960.\n\nHitler exploited documentary films and newsreels to inspire a cult of personality. He was involved and appeared in a series of propaganda films throughout his political career—such as \"Der Sieg des Glaubens\" and \"Triumph des Willens\"—made by Leni Riefenstahl, regarded as a pioneer of modern filmmaking.\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "42034926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42034926", "title": "Alliance for Workers' Liberty", "text": "Alliance for Workers' Liberty\n\nThe Alliance for Workers' Liberty (AWL), also known as Workers' Liberty, is a Trotskyist group in Britain. The group has been identified with the theorist Sean Matgamna throughout its history. It emphasises working-class political independence, radical democracy and anti-Stalinism. The AWL publishes the newspaper \"Solidarity\".\n\nIn September 2015, the AWL applied to the Electoral Commission to be de-registered as political party, enabling its supporters to join the Labour Party, although the group maintains that Labour Party rules do not prohibit its members joining.\n\nThe AWL traces its origins to the document \"What we are and what we must become\", written by the tendency's founder Sean Matgamna in 1966 in which he argued that the Revolutionary Socialist League, by then effectively the Militant tendency, was too inward looking and needed to become more activist in its orientation. The RSL refused to circulate the document and, with a handful of supporters, he left to form the Workers' Fight group. Espousing left unity, they accepted an offer in 1968 to form a faction within the International Socialists as the Trotskyist Tendency.\n\nThe Trotskyist Tendency clashed with the leadership of the International Socialists over many issues, for instance Britain's membership of the Common Market, on which the IS leadership itself was divided, and the use of the \"Troops Out\" slogan regarding Northern Ireland.\n\nIn December 1971, the leadership of the International Socialists called a special conference to \"defuse\" the TT. The TT described the \"defusion\" as an \"expulsion\" given that they did not wish to leave.\n\nOutside the IS, increased in size, the group resumed publication of \"Workers' Fight\", now as a printed paper, not as was previously the case as a duplicated journal, began publication of a theoretical journal entitled \"Permanent Revolution\" and made efforts to publish a small number of workplace-oriented publications in specific industries.\n\nAt the end of 1975, it fused with the smaller Workers Power group, formerly the Left Faction within the IS, to form the International-Communist League. A small group of members in Bolton and Wigan opposed to the merger formed the Marxist Worker group, which later fused with the International Marxist Group. Workers' Fight was renamed \"Workers' Action\" and went over to a weekly publication schedule and the group's quarterly magazine was now entitled \"International-Communist\". It joined with other groups that considered themselves to the left of the USFI in the Necessary International Initiative. In 1976, two-thirds of the ex-Workers Power group's members left in a dispute over Labour Party work and resumed a separate existence. The I-CL increased its activity within the Labour Party, and in 1978 helped set up the Socialist Campaign for a Labour Victory. This campaign proved relatively popular and initially involved a range of figures on the left of the Labour Party who wrote for and supported its paper, \"Socialist Organiser\". After a dispute over whether local government rates should be increased to offset cuts made by the Thatcher government, most of the Labour left figures - including Ken Livingstone - withdrew from \"Socialist Organiser\" until the I-CL was the only force involved in what was now its central publication. Both \"Workers' Action\" and \"International-Communist\" were by 1979 discontinued, reflecting the group's entrism into the Labour Party.\n\nIn 1981 the I-CL fused with Alan Thornett's Workers Socialist League which had now also entered the Labour Party. The new organisation, also called the Workers' Socialist League, mostly worked through the Socialist Organiser Alliance. It also produced a theoretical journal, \"Workers' Socialist Review\". In 1984, the groups split apart. The key issue was the Falklands War: most of the former I-CL argued for the defeat of both sides; most of the former WSL supported a victory for Argentina. The tensions had also been strained over questions of internal democracy and differences over the national question.\n\nThe Socialist Organiser Alliance grew from the broad left Socialist Campaign for a Labour Victory. By 1983 the paper had become identified with Matgamna's supporters, leading to a split with Labour left politicians such as Ken Livingstone over the GLC's policy of increasing rates to offset cuts in central government grants to local councils.\n\nThe group organised its student work through the National Organisation of Labour Students (NOLS), forming Socialist Students in NOLS (SSiN) to campaign within the National Union of Students.\n\nThroughout the 1980s, the group had reassessed its politics and reappraised the Third Camp tradition of heterodox and dissident Trotskyists including Max Shachtman and Hal Draper. The group adopted a two-state position on Israel-Palestine, and in 1988, moved away from its original position that the Stalinist states were \"deformed or degenerated workers states\". By the 1990s the majority of organisation had adopted a bureaucratic collectivist analysis, with a minority holding a state capitalist position.\n\nThe newspaper Socialist Organiser was proscribed by the Labour Party Conference in 1990. In response to the ban, the Socialist Organiser Alliance dissolved. In 1992 supporters of Socialist Organiser launched a new organisation known as the Alliance for Workers' Liberty. Since 1999 the AWL has consistently supported the Labour Party in every general election, and has been involved in left unity initiatives such as the Socialist Alliance, Socialist Alliance Democracy Platform and Socialist Green Unity Coalition, and once independently stood a parliamentary candidate in Camberwell and Peckham – a safe Labour seat – while campaigning for a Labour Victory. It has also maintained a focus on pushing affiliated trade unions to assert themselves against the Labour leadership and was involved in the establishment of the Labour Representation Committee in 2004 to which it is affiliated.\n\nIn the late 1980s, it established and led a number of left opposition campaigns in the NUS, including Left Unity and the Campaign for Free Education. Numerous supporters have won seats in the structures of the NUS. Kat Fletcher, President of the NUS from 2004 to 2006 was formerly a member of the AWL and the Campaign for Free Education. It has played leading roles in the NUS Women's and LGBT Campaigns, championing its policies on liberation and international solidarity within them, securing their representation within the NUS and working with groups such as OutRage! and Al-Fatiha. AWL was central to the Education Not for Sale network, and in 2010 helped found the National Campaign Against Fees and Cuts, within which its student members remain active.\n\nAWL has been more critical of political Islam than some other groups on the far left. In 2006, the AWL reproduced the Muhammad cartoons that were originally published in \"Jyllands-Posten\" on their website, describing it as an issue of free speech. While it opposed the Iraq war, the group was critical of calls for the immediate withdrawal of US and UK forces, arguing that the likely consequence of a precipitate withdrawal would be increased sectarian violence that would snuff out the fledgling independent labour movement. A large minority within the organisation, while agreeing with the emphasis on solidarity with Iraqi workers, argued that the group should raise the call for the withdrawal of troops. These and other positions, including its support for a two-state settlement in Israel/Palestine, have led to other far-left groups characterising the AWL as \"imperialist\" and \"Zionist\".\n\nIn 2009, AWL members were central to sparking and supporting the sit-down strike of Vestas wind turbine factory workers on the Isle of Wight.\n\nIn 2018, the organisation was embroiled in scandal when it was revealed that in 2005 a 16 year old member of the group had been twice sexually assaulted by a member, while an older, full-time organiser for the party did nothing to aid the child. The group responded, acknowledging the allegations and initiating an investigation, but a motion was passed at the London Young Labour conference in February 2018 to exclude AWL members/supporters from LYL spaces until the allegations were investigated.\n\nThe AWL has supported the newspaper \"Solidarity\" since 1995, and published it since 1999. It also published \"Workers' Liberty\" as a roughly quarterly magazine between 1985 and 2001. In 2001 and 2002, a second series of the magazine was published in a journal format. A third series of \"Workers' Liberty\" started in February 2006, taking the form of thematic collections issued as inserts within \"Solidarity\". Women members of the AWL also publish a newspaper, \"Women's Fightback\". AWL also publishes occasional books and pamphlets, including \"The Fate of the Russian Revolution \"(a collection of \"critical Marxist\" and Third Camp Trotskyist writings on Soviet Russia, mainly from the Workers' Party/Independent Socialist League tradition), \"Working-class politics and anarchism\" (exploring the commonalities and differences between class-struggle anarchist and syndicalist traditions and the AWL's own brand of libertarian-tinged Trotskyism), and \"Antonio Gramsci: Working-class revolutionary\" (a short appraisal of the life and thought of the Italian Marxist agitator, organiser, and educator Antonio Gramsci).\n\nThe AWL is active in campaigns such as No Sweat, Feminist Fightback, Workers' Climate Action, the National Campaign Against Fees and Cuts, and local working-class community campaigns such as the Save Lewisham Hospital campaign.\n\nIn trade union work, AWL members focus on developing workplace and industrial bulletins, and rank-and-file networks such as the Local Associations National Action Campaign in the National Union of Teachers. AWL currently produces five workplace and industrial bulletins: \"Tubeworker\" (London Underground workers), \"Lewisham Hospital Worker\" (Lewisham Hospital workers), \"Off The Rails\" (mainline railway workers), \"Tower Hamlets Class Struggle\" (education workers in East London), and \"The Open Book\" (University of London workers).\n\nThe group has international links with Workers' Liberty Australia and supporters within the Revolutionary Left Current in Poland and Solidarity in the United States. It has worked with groups on the left of the former Ligue Communiste Revolutionnaire (now part of the New Anticapitalist Party), and has collaborated with Iraqi and Iranian groups from the Worker-Communist tradition. It also has links with L'Etincelle, a former fraction of Lutte ouvrière, the Iranian Revolutionary Marxist Tendency, and Turkish group Marksist Tutum. These groups contribute to the Marxist Revival website.\n\nThe group advocated a \"no\" vote in the Scottish independence referendum, 2014. AWL members are also prominent in the Free Shahrokh Zamani and Reza Shahabi campaign, a solidarity campaign demanding the release of jailed Iranian trade unionists.\n\nIn September 2015, the AWL applied to the Electoral Commission to be de-registered as a political party, enabling its supporters to join the Labour Party, although the group maintains that Labour Party rules do not prohibit its members joining. It called on left-wing activists to campaign for Labour in the 2017 general election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1791503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791503", "title": "Atomic Energy Act of 1946", "text": "Atomic Energy Act of 1946\n\nThe Atomic Energy Act of 1946 (McMahon Act) determined how the United States would control and manage the nuclear technology it had jointly developed with its World War II allies, the United Kingdom and Canada. Most significantly, the Act ruled that nuclear weapon development and nuclear power management would be under civilian, rather than military control, and established the United States Atomic Energy Commission for this purpose.\n\nIt was sponsored by Senator Brien McMahon, a Democrat from Connecticut, who chaired the United States Senate Special Committee on Atomic Energy, and whose hearings in late 1945 and early 1946 led to the fine tuning and passing of the Act. The Senate passed the Act unanimously through voice vote, and it passed the House of Representatives 265–79. Signed into law by President Harry S. Truman on August 1, 1946, it went into effect on January 1, 1947, and the Atomic Energy Commission assumed responsibility for nuclear energy from the wartime Manhattan Project.\n\nThe Act was subsequently amended to promote private development of nuclear energy under the Eisenhower administration's Atoms for Peace program in 1954. In restricting the access to nuclear information to other countries, it created a rift between the United States and its allies, particularly Britain and Canada, which had participated in the Manhattan Project. This resulted in cumbersome command and control arrangements, and in Britain developing its own nuclear weapons. The Act was amended in 1958 to allow the United States to share information with its close allies.\n\nNuclear weapons were developed during World War II by the wartime Manhattan Project. Key scientists working on the project anticipated that their development would have wide-ranging implications. However the project director, Major General Leslie R. Groves Jr., was reluctant to spend project funds on activities beyond those required to win the war. Nonetheless, Arthur Compton of the Metallurgical Project in Chicago commissioned a report on post-war nuclear energy, and the Military Policy Committee, the Manhattan Project's governing body, commissioned a similar study by Richard Tolman. Both reports called for a comprehensive, government-supported nuclear energy program, with military, scientific, and industrial aspects.\n\nIn July 1944, Vannevar Bush, James B. Conant and Irvin Stewart produced a proposal for domestic legislation to control nuclear energy. Conant submitted this to the Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson in September 1944, and then to the Interim Committee, a body created by President Harry S. Truman in May 1945 to supervise, regulate and control nuclear energy until such a time as Congress created a permanent body to do so. In June 1945, the Interim Committee asked George L. Harrison, an assistant to Stimson and a member of the committee, to prepare legislation.\n\nHarrison brought in two experienced Harvard Law School-educated War Department lawyers, Brigadier General Kenneth Royall and William L. Marbury to take up the job of drafting the legislation. The legislation was based on Bush and Conant's proposal, and the organization that it proposed was based on the existing structure of the Manhattan Project. Their draft bill would have created a nine-man commission consisting of five civilian and four military members. It granted the commission broad powers to acquire property, operate facilities, conduct research, regulate all forms of nuclear energy and administer its own security, administrative and audit regimes.\n\nRoyall and Marbury envisaged nuclear energy being controlled by experts, with a minimum of political interference. The commissioners would be appointed for indefinite terms, and the President's power to remove them would be limited. They would be supported by four advisory boards, for military applications, industrial uses, research and medicine, the membership of which would be restricted to those with technical qualifications. Day-to-day running of the organization would be in the hands of an administrator and his deputy. The Royall–Marbury Bill was reviewed by the Interim Committee at its July 19 meeting and revised in line with their suggestions. After the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki lifted the veil of secrecy surrounding the Manhattan Project, Royall and Marbury were able to consult with the Attorney General, the Judge Advocate General and the Office of Scientific Research and Development. The draft was sent to the President in August for circulation among, and comment from, affected government agencies. Only the State Department had objections, on the basis that it was still involved in trying to hammer out an international agreement on nuclear energy.\n\nOn October 3, 1945, the bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Andrew J. May from Kentucky, the chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee, and in the Senate by Senator Edwin C. Johnson from Colorado, the ranking member of the Senate Military Affairs Committee. The bill was known as the May-Johnson Bill for its sponsors. May immediately had the bill referred to the Military Affairs Committee, which held hearings on October 9. Bush, Conant and Groves all testified before the committee. But in the Senate Military Affairs Committee, the bill was held up by Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg.\n\nThere was a storm of criticism from scientists, particularly those at the Metallurgical Laboratory in Chicago. Leó Szilárd and Harold Urey were particularly notable critics. The bill created a powerful administrator and deputy administrator, and specifically stated that they might be members of the armed forces. It was feared that they would dominate the part-time commissioners. The fact that the bill emphasized that the administrator had to keep the deputy fully informed further aroused suspicion that the administrator would be an Army officer and the deputy a Navy officer. The secrecy provisions also frightened many scientists; it contained severe penalties of up to ten years imprisonment and $10,000 in fines for security breaches. The \"Chicago Sun\" headline accused the War Department of attempting to railroad the legislation through Congress.\n\nLegislators found themselves in an unusual and uncomfortable situation. Nuclear weapons were terrifying, and the nature of nuclear energy was not widely understood. Because it was so new, there were no policies or precedents to guide legislators, and traditional party alignments were absent. The scientists who had developed the new technology had never been vocal before, but suddenly were now. The victorious conclusion of World War II gave the armed forces enormous prestige, but there still remained the long-standing American distrust of standing armies, and the tradition of civilian control of the military.\n\nOn December 20, 1945, Senator Brien McMahon introduced an alternative bill on atomic energy, drafted by the Senate Military affairs Committee, which quickly became known as the McMahon Bill. This was initially a very liberal bill regarding the control of scientific research, and was broadly supported by scientists. McMahon framed the controversy as a question of military versus civilian control of atomic energy, although the May-Johnson Bill also provided for civilian control. The McMahon Bill attempted to address the controversial aspects of the May-Johnson Bill. The number of commissioners was reduced to five, and they would serve full-time. No exemption was provided for serving military officers. An amendment specified that they have staggered terms of five years.\n\nWhile the bill was being debated, the news broke on February 16, 1946, of the defection of Igor Gouzenko in Canada, and the subsequent arrest of 22 people. The members of Congress debating the bill feared that \"atomic secrets\" were being systematically stolen by Soviet atomic spies. McMahon convened an executive session at which Federal Bureau of Investigation Director J. Edgar Hoover, Secretary of State James F. Byrnes and Groves were called to appear. Groves revealed that the British physicist Alan Nunn May had passed information about the Manhattan Project to Soviet agents.\n\nThe more conservative elements in Congress now moved to toughen the act. Section 10, which was formerly titled \"Dissemination of Information\", now became \"Control of Information\". This new section contained the novel doctrine later described as \"born secret\" or \"classified at birth\". All information concerning the design, development and manufacture of nuclear weapons was \"restricted data\", and regardless of how it was derived or obtained, was considered classified unless it was specifically declassified. This restriction on free speech, covering an entire subject matter, is still enforced. The \"wall of secrecy\" set up by the Act meant that atomic energy research and development had to be conducted under the supervision of the Atomic Energy Commission.\n\nRepresentative Helen Gahagan Douglas, who sponsored the McMahon Bill in the House, vigorously defended the dissemination provisions of Section 10 against counterarguments. She dismissed objections that it would \"give away the secret of the bomb\", asserting that America's advantage in nuclear weapons could only be temporary, whereas the bill could perpetuate its lead in scientific research. An important addition, known as the Vandenberg Amendment, created a Military Liaison Committee to advise the commission on defense matters. Section 2 of the Act also created a General Advisory Committee, and a new Joint Committee on Atomic Energy to oversee the new organization.\nThe Senate passed the Act unanimously through voice vote on June 1, 1946. Considerable political maneuvering was required before it was passed by the House 265–79 on July 20. A compromise bill was then agreed to by both houses on July 26. Truman signed the compromise bill into law as the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 on August 1, 1946. When it went into effect at midnight on January 1, 1947, the newly created Atomic Energy Commission assumed responsibility for nuclear energy from the wartime Manhattan Project.\n\nAn important omission from the Atomic Energy of 1946 was any mention of non-governmental use of nuclear energy, since military applications overshadowed all others at the time. The restrictions of the act related to secrecy, the control of fissile materials, the ownership of patents and the operation of production facilities placed a number of legal roadblocks in the way of private nuclear power stations.\n\nThis was at odds with the Eisenhower administration's Atoms for Peace program, and resulted in pressure on federal officials to develop a civilian nuclear power industry that could help justify the government's considerable expenditures on the nuclear weapons program. In 1953 the Atomic Energy Commission presented a set of draft amendments to the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy for consideration. After some debate, this resulted in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.\n\nThe Atomic Energy Act of 1954 proved insufficient in its objective of encouraging privately built and run nuclear reactors. A series of accidents with research reactors, including partial core meltdowns, made private companies cautious, and reluctant to become involved with nuclear energy without protection from liability. This led to the Price–Anderson Nuclear Industries Indemnity Act of 1957, which capped private liability for nuclear accidents, while providing for adequate compensations for accident victims.\n\nImplementing the McMahon Act created a substantial rift between United States and Britain. The new control of \"restricted data\" prevented the United States' allies from receiving any information, despite the fact that the British and Canadian governments, before contributing technology and manpower to the Manhattan Project, had made agreements with the United States about the post-war sharing of nuclear technology. Those agreements had been formalized in the 1943 Quebec Agreement. In the case of the United Kingdom, these were developed further in the 1944 Hyde Park Agreement, which was signed by Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt.\n\nThe Hyde Park Agreement was lost in Roosevelt's papers after his death, and until the American copy of the document was found American officials were puzzled when the British mentioned it. The Quebec Agreement was an executive agreement that only applied to the Roosevelt administration, and the Senate had not seen the document. McMahon told Churchill in 1952 that \"If we had seen this Agreement, there would have been no McMahon Act.\" The McMahon Act fueled resentment from British scientists and Churchill, and led to Britain developing its own nuclear weapons.\n\nLewis Strauss, the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, proposed in January 1958 that the President should be able to share nuclear information with allies that were making \"substantial and material contributions to the national defense and security\". In addition to its own nuclear weapons, Britain had hosted American Strategic Air Command nuclear bombers since 1948. Congress amended the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 in June 1958, and America and Britain again began sharing nuclear research under the 1958 US–UK Mutual Defence Agreement.\n\nThe stipulations contained in the Act caused significant controversy during debates over NATO's military command structure. Both Striking Fleet Atlantic and the United States Sixth Fleet have never been allowed to be placed anywhere but directly under American commanding officers—the Supreme Allied Commander Atlantic and Commander-in-Chief, Allied Forces Southern Europe—because the dominant legal interpretation of the McMahon Act has been that nuclear striking forces cannot be controlled by non-US commanders. This was the reason for the formation of Striking Fleet Atlantic as an independent entity, instead of being operationally subordinated to the UK Admiral serving as Commander-in-Chief, Eastern Atlantic, in October–November 1952. This was also the reason why the Sixth Fleet, in its NATO guise as Naval Striking and Support Force, South, was placed under American control rather than Allied Forces Mediterranean when the European commands were agreed at the same time.\n\nA 2012 court decision concerning a state law attempting to shut down the Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant affirmed that the Act gives the federal government exclusive authority over safety at nuclear power plants. This allowed Vermont Yankee to continue operating until it was voluntarily shut down by the owner for economic reasons in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8595060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8595060", "title": "Bangalore Tiger", "text": "Bangalore Tiger\n\nBangalore Tiger: How Indian Tech upstart Wipro Is Rewriting the Rules of Global Competition is a book published in 2006 by McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc, New York City, and authored by Steve Hamm. It focuses on what it calls the \"new breed of transnationals\" who have brought about cause for \"multinationals\" to \"beware\".\n\nSays the book's jacket: \"From its mastery of global collaboration and its market expansion strategy to its constant-improvement approach and \"zero politics\" policy, author Steve Hamm reveals the never-before-told story of how \"The Wipro Way\" of doing business is changing the world.\n\nAn Indian edition of the book was published by Tata McGraw-Hill of New Delhi. It is dated 2007, though the book was available at newsstands and bookshops in end-2006.\n"}
{"id": "40139312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40139312", "title": "Byrnestown", "text": "Byrnestown\n\nByrnestown is a rural locality in the North Burnett Region of Queensland, Australia. The town was established as one of the first communes in Queensland.\n\nIn response to the idea of communes promulgated by utopian William Lane, in 1893 the Queensland Government legislated the \"Queensland Co-operative Communities Land Settlement Act\" to allow a group of 30 or more men and their families to establish a commune in Queensland. This led to many groups forming to pursue the goal of establishing a commune; one of these groups called themselves \"Byrnestown\" after the then Queensland Attorney-General Thomas Joseph Byrnes (who would become Premier of Queensland in 1898).\n\nIn late 1893, the groups were offered sites near Roma but, following an inspection, the Byrnestown group rejected that location believing that the sites offered were too far from the town.\nIn January 1893, the Byrnestown group inspected land in the Burnett area and found it suitable, having a water supply from the Wetherton Creek and frontage to the prospective railway to Gayndah. As a result, the Byrnestown commune (comprising 34 members) was registered on 24 February 1894 receiving for an 8-year term. Another group calling themselves \"Resolute\" selected land immediately to the east of the Byrnestown group, while a third group \"Bon Accord\" also took land in the Burnett area at Bon Accord.\n\nThe first of the Byrnestown settlers arrived in March 1894. Although all communes were given initial funds, by June 1894, Byrnestown requested and received additional financial assistance. By October 1894, there were 169 people in the Byrnestown commune: 34 men, 28 wives and 107 children. The group had erected numerous bark dwellings, farm buildings and were beginning work on a school building, but had made more limited progress on clearing and planting the land.\nThe Byrnestown commune did not succeed. As early as November 1894, there were allegations (denied by the group) that some of their members were working outside the commune but not contributing their wages to the commune as their agreement required. The following month some members were petitioning the government for funds, saying that the commune's management committee was denying them food. At the agricultural show at Degilbo in February 1895, it was revealed that 6 men had left the group and a further 9 were refusing to work, with the group's secretary suggesting the internal disputes arose from differences in nationality and religion. An inspection in April 1895 reported on limited progress at cultivation of the land, possibly linked to the number of men in the group working outside the commune. By July 1895, members of group had resorted to legal action over the management committee refusal to provide food to members who disagreed with their decisions. Byrnestown was not alone in its failure; in August 1895 a report by the Under-Secretary for Agriculture revealed most of the communes established were \"in a state of collapse\" and that there was little prospect of them being economically self-supporting.\n\nOne small success for the commune was the opening of the Byrnestown Provisional School on 4 September 1895. However, the Byrnestown commune soon complained that children from the neighbouring Resolute commune were attending their school without contributing to it.\n\nIn October 1895 the Byrnestown committee instituted a system of punishments for any member (or their wife) who criticised their commune or suggested it might not be a success. In December 1895, the Queensland Government passed legislation to enable communes to be dissolved and the communal land divided among the members. The members of Byrnestown immediately petitioned the Queensland Government to divide their communal land into individual portions. In April 1896, of the Byrnestown communal land was divided among 16 of its members, bringing the commune to an end. Those members who chose to take up individual land generally succeeded in their enterprise and were described less than two years later in February 1896 as \"doing pretty well\", suggesting that dissolution of the commune had rid the community of those men unsuited to agriculture or generally disinclined to work. In 1903, there were over under cultivation, growing mostly maize, potatoes and fodder crops; the main barrier to greater prosperity was the distance to the railway.\n\nThe Byrnestown Provisional School was originally housed in a bark humpy, but, through the efforts of Roman Catholic priest Father Michael Joseph McKiernan, it was replaced by a more substantial building. It became a state school in 1909. A second school, Byrnestown Central State School, opened on 20 May 1913, after which the first school was often known as Old Byrnestown School. The old school closed in 1931 and its buildings were relocated in 1932 to Wilson Valley. In 1938, Byrnestown Central State School was renamed Byrnestown State School. It closed on 31 December 1970.\n\nByrnestown Post Office opened by November 1903 (a receiving office had been open from 1898) and closed in 1911. Byrnestown Railway Station Post Office opened by June 1910 (a receiving office had been open from 1909, briefly known as \"Ginoon\") and closed in 1974.\nThe Church of the Sacred Heart was opened in Byrnestown on 22 February 1925 by Roman Catholic Archbishop James Duhig.\n\nIn May 1931, a railway carriage carrying the Queensland Premier Arthur Edward Moore and Robert Boyd MLA and their wives came detached during shunting operations at the Gooroolba junction and rolled away, gathering speed down a streep grade. It hurtled, swaying dangerously, through Byrnestown railway station and eventually came to a halt five miles later on flat ground near the Wetheron railway station. Nobody was hurt.\n\nThe Byrnestown Commune and Cemetery are listed on the North Burnett Regional Council's local heritage register.\n\n"}
{"id": "40668394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40668394", "title": "Cambodian genocide", "text": "Cambodian genocide\n\nThe Cambodian genocide () was carried out by the Khmer Rouge regime under the leadership of Pol Pot, inflicting a population loss between 1.671 and 1.871 million people from 1975 to 1979, or 21 to 24 percent of Cambodia’s 1975 population. The Khmer Rouge wanted to turn the country into a socialist agrarian republic, founded on the policies of ultra-Maoism. In 1976, the Khmer Rouge changed the name of the country to Democratic Kampuchea. In order to fulfill their goals, the Khmer Rouge emptied the cities and forced Cambodians to relocate to labor camps in the countryside, where mass executions, forced labor, physical abuse, malnutrition, and disease were prevalent. This resulted in the death of approximately 25 percent of Cambodia's total population. Approximately 20,000 people passed through the Tuol Sleng Centre (also known as Security Prison S-21), one of the 196 prisons operated by the Khmer Rouge, and only 7 adults survived. The opposition were taken to the Killing Fields, where they were executed (often with pickaxes to save bullets) and buried in mass graves. The abduction and indoctrination of children was widespread, and many were persuaded or forced to commit atrocities. The Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia ended the genocide by defeating the Khmer Rouge in 1979.\n\nOn 2 January 2001, the Cambodian government established the Khmer Rouge Tribunal, to try the members of the Khmer Rouge leadership responsible for the Cambodian genocide. Trials began on 17 February 2009. On 7 August 2014, Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan were convicted and received life sentences for crimes against humanity during the genocide. As of 2009, the Cambodian NGO Documentation Center of Cambodia has mapped some 23,745 mass graves containing approximately 1.3 million suspected victims of execution. Direct execution is believed to account for roughly 60% of the full death toll during the genocide, with other victims succumbing to starvation or disease.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge regime frequently arrested and often executed anyone suspected of connections with the former Cambodian government or foreign governments, as well as professionals, intellectuals, the Buddhist monkhood, and ethnic minorities. As a result, Pol Pot has been described by journalists and historians, William Branigin for example, as \"a genocidal tyrant\". British sociologist Martin Shaw described the Cambodian genocide as \"the purest genocide of the Cold War era\". The attempt to purify Cambodian society along racial, social and political lines led to purges of the Cambodia's previous military and political leadership, along with business leaders, journalists, students, doctors, and lawyers.\n\nEthnic Vietnamese, ethnic Thai, ethnic Chinese, ethnic Cham, Cambodian Christians, and other minorities were also targeted. The Khmer Rouge forcibly relocated minority groups and banned the use of minority languages. By decree, the Khmer Rouge banned the existence of more than 20 minority groups, which constituted 15% of the country's population.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge initially ordered the expulsion of ethnic Vietnamese from Cambodia but then massacred large numbers of that population as they attempted to flee the country. The regime then prevented the remaining 20,000 ethnic Vietnamese from fleeing, and much of this group was also executed. The Khmer Rouge also used the media to support their goals of genocide. Radio Phnom Penh called on Cambodians to \"exterminate the 50 million Vietnamese.\"\n\nAdditionally, the Khmer Rouge conducted many cross-border raids into Vietnam where they slaughtered an estimated 30,000 Vietnamese civilians. Most notably, during the Ba Chúc massacre in April 1978, the Khmer Rouge military crossed the border and entered the village, slaughtering 3,157 Vietnamese civilians at once. This forced an urgent response from the Vietnamese government, precipitating the Cambodian–Vietnamese War in which the Khmer Rouge was ultimately defeated.\n\nThe state of the Chinese Cambodians during the Khmer Rouge regime has been described as \"the worst disaster ever to befall any ethnic Chinese community in Southeast Asia.\" Cambodians of Chinese descent were massacred by the Khmer Rouge under the justification that they \"used to exploit the Cambodian people\". The Chinese were stereotyped as traders and moneylenders associated with capitalism, while historically the group had attracted resentment due to their lighter skin color and cultural differences. Hundreds of Chinese families were rounded up in 1978 and told that they were to be resettled, but were actually executed. At the beginning of the Khmer Rouge regime in 1975, there were 425,000 ethnic Chinese in Cambodia; by the end of 1979 there were just 200,000. Furthermore, the Chinese were predominantly city-dwellers, making them vulnerable to the Khmer Rouge's revolutionary ruralism and evacuation of city residents to farms. The government of the People's Republic of China did not protest the killings of ethnic Chinese in Cambodia.\n\nAccording to Ben Kiernan, the \"fiercest extermination campaign was directed against the ethnic Cham Muslim minority.\" Islam was seen as an \"alien\" and \"foreign\" culture that did not belong in the new Communist system. Initially, the Khmer Rouge aimed for the \"forced assimilation\" of Chams through population dispersal. Pol Pot then began using intimidation efforts against the Chams that included the assassination of village elders but ultimately ordered the full-scale mass killing of Cham people. American professor Samuel Totten and Australian professor Paul R. Bartrop estimate that these efforts would have completely wiped out the Cham population were it not for the overthrow of the Khmer Rouge in 1979.\n\nUnder the leadership of Pol Pot, who was an ardent atheist, the Khmer Rouge had a policy of state atheism. According to Catherine Wessinger, \"Democratic Kampuchea was officially an atheist state, and the persecution of religion by the Khmer Rouge was matched in severity only by the persecution of religion in the communist states of Albania and North Korea.\" All religions were banned, and the repression of adherents of Islam, Christianity, and Buddhism was extensive. It is estimated that up to 50,000 Buddhist monks were massacred by the Khmer Rouge.\n\nIdeology played an important role in the genocide. Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge aimed to bring Cambodia back to its \"mythic past\" of the powerful Khmer Empire, to stop corrupting influences like foreign aid and western culture, and to restore the country to an agrarian society. Attempts to implement these goals were key factors in the ensuing genocide. One Khmer Rouge leader said that the killings were meant for the \"purification of the populace.\"\n\nThe Khmer Rouge forced virtually the entire population of Cambodia into mobile work teams. Michael Hunt said that it was \"an experiment in social mobilization unmatched in twentieth-century revolutions.\" The Khmer Rouge used an inhumane forced labor regime, starvation, forced resettlement, land collectivization, and state terror to keep the population in line.\n\nHistorian Ben Kiernan has compared the Cambodian genocide to the Armenian Genocide perpetrated by the Ottoman Empire and the Holocaust perpetrated by Nazi-era Germany. While each was unique, they shared certain common features. Racism was a major part of the ideology of all three of the genocidal regimes. All three targeted religious minorities and tried to use force of arms to expand into what they believed to be their historical heartlands (the Khmer Empire, Turkestan, and respectively), while all three regimes \"idealized their ethnic peasantry as the true 'national' class, the ethnic soil from which the new state grew.\"\n\nThe Khmer Rouge regime is also well known for having practiced tortures and medical experiments. There are many accounts of torture in the S-21 records and in the documents of the trial. Tortures weren't only meant to force the prisoner to confess, they were just used for fun among the prison guards. They feared that they would become themselves prisoners of the same prison if they treated the prisoners well. Moreover, unlike other totalitarian regimes (such as Nazism) where soldiers and guards were adults and normally suffered from psychological stress when they had to carry out mass killings with rifles (which was one of the reasons that led to the adoption of gas chambers), prison guards of the Khmer Rouge regime were just youths and most of them couldn't even realize in full what they were doing.\n\nThe previous doctors were killed or sent to the countryside to work as farmers during the Khmer Rouge and the library of the\nMedical Faculty in Phnom Penh was set on fire. The regime then employed child medics, who were just teenagers with no or very little training in that job. They didn't have any knowledge of Western medicine (which had been forbidden since it was considered a capitalist invention), and they had to practice their own medical experiments and make progress by themselves. They didn't have Western medicines (since Cambodia, according to the Khmer Rouge, had to be self-sufficient) and all the medical experiments were systematically conducted without anesthetics.\n\nA medic who worked inside S-21 told that a 17-year-old girl had her throat slit and her abdomen pierced before being beaten and put into water for the whole night. This procedure was repeated many times and it was carried out without anesthetics.\n\nIn a hospital of Kampong Cham province, child medics cut off the intestine of a living non-consenting person and they joined their ends in order to study the healing process. The patient died after three days due to the \"operation\".\n\nIn the same hospital, other \"physicians\" trained by the Khmer Rouge opened the chest of a living person, just to see the heart beating. The operation resulted in the immediate death of the patient.\n\nOther testimonies, as well as the policy itself implemented by the Khmer Rouge, suggest that those weren't just isolated cases. They also performed drug testing, for instance by injecting coconut juice into a living person's body and studying the effects. Coconut juice-injection was often lethal.\n\nThe book (\"Cambodia Year Zero\") by was released in 1977 and translated into English in 1978. Ponchaud was one of the first authors to bring the Cambodian genocide to the world's attention. Ponchaud has said that the genocide \"was above all, the translation into action the particular vision of a man [\"sic\"]: A person who has been spoiled by a corrupt regime cannot be reformed, he must be physically eliminated from the brotherhood of the pure.\" \"Murder of a Gentle Land: The Untold Story of a Communist Genocide in Cambodia\" by John Barron and Anthony Paul was published in 1977. The book drew on accounts from refugees, and an abridged version published in \"Reader's Digest\" was widely read.\n\nIn 1973, Kenneth M. Quinn of the United States embassy raised concerns over the atrocities being carried out by the Khmer Rouge during the Cambodian Civil War. In a report, he stated that the Khmer Rouge had \"much in common with those of totalitarian regimes in Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union.\" Quinn has written of the Khmer Rouge: \"[w]hat emerges as the explanation for the terror and violence that swept Cambodia during the 1970s is that a small group of alienated intellectuals, enraged by their perception of a totally corrupt society and imbued with a Maoist plan to create a pure socialist order in the shortest possible time, recruited extremely young, poor, and envious cadres, instructed them in harsh and brutal methods learned from Stalinist mentors, and used them to destroy physically the cultural underpinnings of the Khmer civilization and to impose a new society through purges, executions, and violence.\"\n\nDuring the genocide, China was the main international patron of the Khmer Rouge, supplying \"more than 15,000 military advisers\" and most of its external aid. As a result of Chinese and Western opposition to the Vietnamese invasion of 1978-79, the Khmer Rouge continued to hold Cambodia's United Nations seat until 1982, after which the seat was filled by a Khmer Rouge-dominated coalition known as the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea. Motivated by its opposition to Vietnam, China trained Khmer Rouge soldiers on its soil from 1979 to at least 1986, \"stationed military advisers with Khmer Rouge troops as late as 1990,\" and \"supplied at least $1 billion in military aid\" during the 1980s. After the 1991 Paris Peace Accords, Thailand continued to allow the Khmer Rouge \"to trade and move across the Thai border to sustain their activities... although international criticism, particularly from the United States and Australia... caused it to disavow passing any direct military support.\" There are also allegations that the United States directly or indirectly supported the Khmer Rouge to weaken Vietnam's influence in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge exploited thousands of desensitized, conscripted children in their early teens to commit mass murder and other atrocities during and after the genocide. The indoctrinated children were taught to follow any order without hesitation. The organisation continued to use children extensively until at least 1998, often forcibly recruiting them. During this period, the children were deployed mainly in unpaid support roles, such as ammunition-carriers, and also as combatants. Many children had fled the Khmer Rouge without a means to feed themselves, and believed that joining the government forces would enable them to survive, although local commanders frequently denied them any pay.\n\nOn 15 July 1979, following the overthrow of the Khmer Rouge, the new government of Cambodia passed \"Decree Law .\" This allowed for the trial of Pol Pot and Ieng Sary for the crime of genocide. They were given an American defense lawyer, Hope Stevens., and were tried \"in absentia\" and convicted of genocide. In January 2001, the Cambodian National Assembly passed legislation to form a tribunal to try additional members of the Khmer Rouge regime.\n\nIn 1999, Kang Kek Iew (\"Comrade Duch\") was interviewed by Nic Dunlop and Nate Thayer and admitted his guilt for crimes carried out in Tuol Sleng prison, where up to 17,000 political prisoners were executed. He expressed sorrow for his actions, stating that he was willing to stand trial and give evidence against his former comrades. During his trial in February and March 2009, Duch admitted that he was responsible for the crimes carried out at Tuol Sleng. On 26 July 2010, he was found guilty on charges of crimes against humanity, torture, and murder and was sentenced to 35 years in prison. On 3 February 2012 his previous sentence was replaced with life imprisonment.\n\nNuon Chea (\"Brother Number Two\") was arrested on 19 September 2007. At the end of his 2013 trial he denied all charges, stating that he had not given orders \"to mistreat or kill people to deprive them of food or commit any genocide.\" He was convicted in 2014 and sentenced to life imprisonment. He has expressed remorse and accepted moral responsibility for his crimes, stating \"I would like to sincerely apologize to the public, the victims, the families, and all Cambodian people.\"\n\nAfter being located in an opulent Phnom Penh villa, Ieng Sary was arrested on 12 November 2007 and indicted for crimes against humanity, as was his wife Ieng Thirith, who had been an unofficial adviser to the regime. On 17 November 2011, following evaluations from medical experts, Thirith was found to be unfit to stand trial due to a mental condition. Sary died of heart failure in 2013 while his trial was in progress.\n\nAnother senior Khmer Rouge leader, Khieu Samphan, was arrested on 19 November 2007 and charged with crimes against humanity. He was convicted in 2014 and sentenced to life imprisonment. At a hearing on 23 June 2017, Samphan stated a desire to bow to the memory of his guiltless victims, while also claiming that he suffered for those who fought for their ideal to have a brighter future.\n\nA few months before his death on 15 April 1998, Pol Pot was interviewed by Nate Thayer. During the interview, he stated that he had a clear conscience and denied being responsible for the genocide. Pol Pot asserted that he \"came to carry out the struggle, not to kill people.\" According to Alex Alvarez, Pol Pot \"portrayed himself as a misunderstood and unfairly vilified figure\". In 2013, Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen passed legislation that prohibits the denial of the Cambodian genocide and other war crimes committed by the Khmer Rouge. The legislation was passed despite comments by opposition leader Kem Sokha, who is the deputy president of the Cambodian National Rescue Party. Sokha stated that exhibits at the Tuol Sleng Genocide Museum were fabricated and that the artifacts had been faked by the Vietnamese following their invasion in 1979. Sokha's party has claimed that his comments were taken out of context.\n\nFilmmaker Rithy Panh, a survivor of the genocide, is \"considered by many to be the cinematic voice of Cambodia.\" Panh has directed several documentaries on the genocide, including \"\", which has been noted by critics for \"allow[ing] us to observe how memory and time may collapse to render the past as present and by doing so reveal the ordinary face of evil.\" The genocide is portrayed in the 1984 Academy Award-winning film \"The Killing Fields\" and in Patricia McCormick's 2012 novel \"Never Fall Down\".\n\nThe genocide is also recounted by Loung Ung in her memoir \"First They Killed My Father\" (2000). The book was adapted into a 2017 biographical film directed by Angelina Jolie. Set in 1975, the film depicts 5-year-old Ung who is forced to be trained as a child soldier while her siblings are sent to labor camps by the Khmer Rouge regime.\n\n"}
{"id": "16255788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16255788", "title": "Chief business officer", "text": "Chief business officer\n\nChief business officer (CBO) is the position of the top operating executive of growing commercial companies or an academic/research institution (such as a university, college, institute, or teaching hospital). In the commercial space, CBO shows leadership in deal making experience with a clear record of results and ultimate transactional responsibility. In higher education, the titles of vice president, associate dean, assistant dean, and director are also used for the role of the chief business officer\nIn the biotechnology, information technology, and emerging innovation industries, the Chief Business Officers assume full management responsibility for the company’s deal making, provides leadership and execute a deal strategy that will allow the company to fulfill its scientific/technology mission and build shareholder value, provides managerial guidance to the company’s product development staff as needed. Reporting directly to the Board of Directors and/or the CEO of the company, CBO sometimes has a dual role as a Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Strategy Officer.\n\nThe CBO is often given the responsibilities to conduct all business and corporate development activities, maintain relationship and project management of all partnership agreements, ensure marketing activities, including website related, activities, and more importantly, develop an exit strategy for the company to be acquired or go IPO.\n\nThe titles of executive vice president and senior vice president are found most often in a university’s central administration office and a hierarchical relationship does not necessarily exist between those positions and the chief business officer position of a university affiliated institute or center which is often at an equivalent level. Several large public school districts in the United States now employ chief business officers to oversee the business operations of the school district as well as the work of individual school business managers. Independent schools increasingly use the chief business officer title to identify the school finance director or school business manager. The chief business officer position in education should not be confused with the unrelated chief commercial officer or chief business development officer positions in other industries. Additionally, the chief business development officer title is often shortened to chief business officer in biotechnology, information technology, and startup companies.\n\nThe Chief Business Officer is responsible for the administrative, financial, and operations management of the organization often combining the roles of chief administrative officer (CAO), chief financial officer (CFO), and chief operating officer (COO). As a result, the executive holding the chief business officer position, by definition, will usually possess a broader range of experience and more extensive skill set than an individual serving in those C-level positions.\n\nAs one of the highest ranking executives in an academic or research organization, the chief business officer may oversee strategic planning in addition to budgeting, financial management, contracts, human resources, procurement, compliance, real estate, facilities, information technology and risk management. At many colleges and universities sustainability and green building initiatives fall under the purview of the chief business officer while other institutions include community and local government relations in the CBO's responsibilities \n\nMany Chief Business Officers hold advanced academic degrees (MBA, PhD, etc.) or leading professional credentials and continue to participate in academic research or consulting projects in their areas of expertise. Job experience for the chief business officer role is generally gained, on the job, at the department, unit or program level prior to advancing into a chief business officer role although business officers at all levels are sometimes hired from private industry, government or other non-profit organizations.\n\nEducational requirements for the chief business officer position vary by different commercial companies and institutions \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33911051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33911051", "title": "City Council of Bern", "text": "City Council of Bern\n\nThe City Council (German: \"Gemeinderat\") is the executive body of the city of Bern, Switzerland.\n\nIt consists of five full-time members who represent proportionally the voting population of the city of Bern; they are elected for four years, and each one leads one of the directorates of the city administration. Chairman of the municipal council is the mayor (\"Stadtpräsident\") who is elected by the people in a plurality voting system (\"Majorz\"). The council meets weekly in the Erlacherhof. The Town Clerk (\"Stadtschreiber\") is elected by the city council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58061249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58061249", "title": "Cort van der Linden cabinet", "text": "Cort van der Linden cabinet\n\nThe Cort van der Linden cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 29 August 1913 until 9 September 1918. The cabinet was formed by Independent Liberal Pieter Cort van der Linden after the election of 1913 and received confidence and supply in the House of Representatives from other Independent Liberals and several members of the Free-thinking Democratic League (VDB), Christian Historical Union (CHU) and the Liberal Union (LU) and from 15 December 1917 also the Economic League (EL). The centre cabinet was officially a minority government in the House of Representatives but was also supported by additional members of the Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) for a majority. It was the last cabinet with a Liberal Prime Minister until Mark Rutte became Prime Minister 92 years later on 14 October 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1444349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1444349", "title": "Cristovam Buarque", "text": "Cristovam Buarque\n\nCristovam Ricardo Cavalcanti Buarque, PhD ( or ; born February 20, 1944 in Recife) is a Brazilian university professor and member of Popular Socialist Party (PPS). He is currently a Senator from the Federal District. He is married and has two children.\n\nBuarque graduated in mechanical engineering from the Federal University of Pernambuco (1966). At that time he engaged in student politics becoming a militant of the \"Ação Popular\", a group of the Leftist Progressive Church. After the 1964 coup, he was persecuted and took exile in France, where he earned a PhD in economics from the Pantheon-Sorbonne University, Paris I, (Paris), in 1973. He worked at Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in Ecuador, Honduras and the United States from 1973 to 79.\nHe was the first elected rector, by direct vote, of the University of Brasilia in the wake of the military regime, governor of Federal District, Minister of Education and currently senator, elected in a historic landslide. Author of ten books with several published articles. He worked as a consultant for several national and international bodies under the United Nations (UN). Presided over the University for Peace Council and participated on Food Presidential Commission, formerly directed by late Sociologist Herbert \"Betinho\" de Souza.\n\nBuarque is a member of Institute of Education of UNESCO and of the Council of the United Nations University. He created a NGO Mission Child, which sponsors an income transfer program for thousands of families and is funded by private enterprises. He was awarded the Jabuti prize of Literature in 1995, in the “Humanities” category. He is a staunch defender of the “revolution… through education”, a line of thought touted by important Brazilian intellectuals, as Anísio Teixeira, Darcy Ribeiro and Paulo Freire. However, his stance on this subject should not be confused with that of those other thinkers, who – especially Freire – also envisioned a \"revolution in education\". Buarque’s approach is much more conventional, uncritical of traditional education.\n\nBuarque is also a proposer of an alternative class analysis of modern capitalist societies. According to him, in modern capitalism, the increasing substitution of human labour for automated machines tends to make employed workers a privileged caste, while a new layer of “excluded” people – those who have no jobs, no insurance, no health care – is formed, whose members are the real victims of social inequality. As this new underclass, however, does not have the ability to effectively counter its exploitation by capitalism, Buarque’s thought constantly tends towards some kind of substitutionism, in which political action by wide masses is replaced by government or institutional action on their behalf.\n\nHis term as Governor of Distrito Federal was marked by strong tensions with the Workers’ Party (PT), and particularly with the unionist base of the party, as he strove continuously not only to maintain his independence from party directives, but also to influence intra-party political struggle through State power. In that, he achieved evident success in subduing the party to his policies, at the high price of demobilizing most of the PT activists.\n\nThe project Bolsa Escola, implemented in the Federal District during his term, was awarded in Brazil and other countries. Albeit its 58% of approval in a research made by the Datafolha institute, carried through to the end of his term (being classified as the most popular state governor ever), he was unable to attain re-election, being defeated by Joaquim Roriz (PMDB) by a small margin of votes. Buarque attributed his defeat to his opponent’s promise to grant a large wage increase for the public servants of the Federal District. The promise was not fulfilled by Roriz.\n\nBolsa escola assures a minimum wage to every poor family in which all children between the ages of 7 and 14 are registered for public school. The criteria to receive it are:\n\nIn 1997, the program reached 44 382 children of 22.493 families, with an expense of R$32 million, or in other words less than 1% of the budget of the Federal District. Under this program, truancy, which in 1994 had been about 10%, fell to 0,4%.\n\nWorks as one programs to complement to Bolsa escola, aimed at diminishing school evasion and failing rates. The pupil scholarship holder, to each year where he is approved, has deposited in a special account the value of a minimum wage, that will be applied in the Fund for Solidarity of the Federal District (Funsol). After completing the fourth and the eighth year of school, the pupil will be able to draw half of the value deposited in the savings account. In the conclusion of as the degree, the balance is set free integrally. If the pupil flunks two consecutive years, he/she will be excluded from the program and the saving account's balance reverted for the government. The program costs 10% of the annual average cost of a pupil in the public net, what it makes with that, when reducing significantly the school failing rates (dropped from 29.8% in 1994 to 16.45% in 1997), represents a considerable economy for the government, beyond the social and educational profit.\n\nThe families benefited for this program regularly receive the visit from health teams, trained to give to basic services in the area to all the members of the family, diminishing its necessity of displacement to the hospitals and centers of health. Each team, headquartered in a Unit of Health in House, is composed for a doctor, a nurse, three nurse aid, four communitarian agents of health and one to assist of general services, and has covered a region with about a thousand families. This program already is implanted in eleven regions reaching, through the 101 teams of the Secretariat of Health, about 800 thousand people.\n\nConsists of mini-libraries (box-bookshelves), installed in residences of Communitarian Agents of Reading, for book loan to the neighborhood. Each domiciliary library has a quantity of about 150 volumes, made up of: didactic books and of infantile, Brazilian and foreign pertaining to school support, literature. The books are loaned per seven days. To each two months, the box-bookshelves are changed, giving new options of reading. The program already has five hundred “luggages of the book” reaching a universe of about 50 a thousand people.\n\nIts main objective is to democratize the access to the credit and the services banking, being benefited microproducing agricultural and urban, as craftsmen, feirantes, small rendering of services and workers of the informal sector, as well as cooperatives and microcompanies. The ceiling of the financing value is of R$5 000 per person and R$25 000 in the case of collective forms of production and work. These resources are destined to the purchase of machines and equipment as well as the o working capital financing. The quick program also enterprise assessorship and promotes courses for the qualification managemental technique and of the benefited ones. To stand itself to the credit, the necessary interested party to inhabit in Federal District has at least five years, to have experience in the profession or enterprise the one that if applied of, not to have no type of cadastral restriction and to present a guarantor in the same conditions. When one registers, an agent of credit of the Secretariat of the Work goes to visit the candidate to verify the conditions of production, the product quality/service and the expectations of job generation. After the visit, the Committee of Credit approves or not it request, on the basis of the finding presented for the Secretariat of the Work. In the foreseen dates, the benefited one deposits, in any agency of the BRB, the value of the parcel of the loan. When quitting a financing, all that one that paid in day will be able to get a new credit.\n\nInitiated in 1995, the “Popular Seasons” takes to all the cities of Federal District, during the months of January and February, local and national artists. In one year, 220 spectacles of music, theater and dance had been presented, with admission tickets sold at R$8.00 each, that had been attended by 100 000 people.\n\nProgram of education in traffic that drastically reduced the number of accidents in the Federal District and in the capital Brasília, that was one of the Brazilian cities with more occurrences of traffic accidents.\n\nIn 2005, after the denunciations of corruption involving the Worker's Party (PT), he left the party. He said: After considering staying in Senate independently, he decided to enter the Democratic Labour Party (PDT), with which he had old affinities, having participated of the campaign of Leonel Brizola to the presidency in 1989. His proposal to transform the education into great national priority is a continuation of the ideas of Darcy Ribeiro, an important formulator of the educational politics of the PDT.\n\nCristovam Buarque ran for President in the elections of 2006 for the PDT, having the senator Jefferson Peres as vice-president. The main flag of his campaign was federalization of basic public education (preschool, basic and intermediary education), considered a prerequisite for solving many Brazilian problems in the medium and long run. To reach this objective, he considered the federalization of some aspects of the area, such as the definition of minimum standards for educational infrastructure (buildings, equipment etc.), curricula, teacher training and with a minimum monthly wage of R$800,00 for teachers. He was fourth in the first round, behind Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, Geraldo Alckmin and Heloísa Helena, having received 2,538,834 votes, or 2.64% of the valid votes. Celebrities as Juca Kfouri, José Trajano, Caetano Veloso, Fernanda Torres, Ricardo Noblat and Manoel Carlos had declared that they had voted for Cristovam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1324786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1324786", "title": "Dissent! (network)", "text": "Dissent! (network)\n\nDissent! was the name taken for an international network of local groups, which came together to organise opposition to the G8 summit held in Gleneagles Hotel, Perthshire, Scotland in July 2005. Most groups shared an anti-capitalist orientation and anti-authoritarian organizing methods and the network declares itself to be open to anyone prepared to work within the Hallmarks of Peoples' Global Action, an international co-ordination of radical social movements and grassroots campaigns. Dissent acted as a networking tool and created infrastructure which was used by groups with methods of protest ranging from anti-border city tours and street parties to road blockades, graffiti and confrontations with the police.\n\nThe network was formed in the autumn of 2003 by a group of people who have previously been involved in radical ecological direct action, Peoples' Global Action, the anti-war movement and the global anti-capitalist movement which has emerged around meetings of those that rule over us.\n\nIn the run-up to the summit itself, groups associated with Dissent! organised actions targeting a number of the preparatory meetings which brought together ministers from the G8 countries. Among these were the Environment and Development Ministerial in Derbyshire (March 17–18) and the Justice and Interior Ministerial in Sheffield (June 15–18).\n\nThe network set-up an \"eco-camp\" known as HoriZone in the town of Stirling to host protesters. This was organised along non-hierarchical lines conforming with the principles of direct democracy and broken down into largely autonomous \"barrios\". The camp was also run in such a way as to minimise its environmental impact; recycling, conserving water and utilising biodiesel in its vehicles.\n\nThe Dissent! Network in Germany was one of the networks mobilising against the 33rd G8 summit in Heiligendamm, Germany, since 2005. Since that time other Dissent! Networks were started in Sweden, Netherlands, Spain, Belgium and France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6607440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6607440", "title": "Esseltub", "text": "Esseltub\n\nEsseltub (sometimes called Esseltube) is the name of a typeface family used in the Stockholm Metro. It was designed by Stig Åke Möller and digitalised by Bo Berndal. In the 1980s it was replaced with black and white signs using Helvetica and they are now gradually being replaced by Veolia Transport (formerly Connex) with signs with yellow text on blue background using FF Meta.\n\n"}
{"id": "4782823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4782823", "title": "Father of the chapel", "text": "Father of the chapel\n\nFather of the chapel (FoC) or mother of the chapel (MoC) are the titles in the United Kingdom and Australasia referring to a shop steward representing members of a trade union in a printing office or in journalism. The FoC or MoC is assisted by the clerk of the chapel or by a deputy FoC/MoC.\n\nIn the printing trade, a chapel is the traditional name given to a meeting of compositors. The name originates in the early history of printing in Great Britain, when printing offices were controlled by churches (hence \"chapel\").\n\nThe name also honours the origins of British trade unionism, where non-conformist churches often acted as covers for trade union activity, which was illegal at the time.\n"}
{"id": "25528330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25528330", "title": "Federal Ministry of Health (Nigeria)", "text": "Federal Ministry of Health (Nigeria)\n\nThe Federal Ministry of Health is one of the Federal Ministries of Nigeria concerned with the formulation and implementation of policies related to health. It is headed by a Minister appointed by the President, assisted by a Permanent Secretary, who is a career civil servant. The current Minister of Health is Prof. Isaac Folorunso Adewole.\n\nThe Ministry has several departments specializing in different aspects of health care.\nThe Family Health department is concerned with creating awareness on Reproductive, Maternal Neonatal and Child Health, ensuring sound nutrition including infant and young child feeding, and care of the elderly and adolescents.\nThe department of Public Health coordinates formulation, implementation and evaluation of public health policies and guidelines. It undertakes health promotion, surveillance, prevention and control of diseases.\n\nFunctions of the department of Planning Research And Statistics include developing plans and budgets and monitoring their implementation, serving as Secretariat to the National Council on Health, conducting health research in collaboration with other departments and agencies, institutions and parastatals, conducting operational research and data collection, and performing various coordination functions.\n\nThe department of Hospital Services supervises 53 Federal Tertiary Hospitals – Nigeria’s Teaching hospitals, Orthopedic Hospitals Federal Medical Centres and National Eye Centers. The department processes appointment of Chief Medical Directors and Medical Directors, supervises oral health research, develops policies on nursing, coordinates training programmes for nurses and monitors the midwifery service scheme in collaboration with NPHCDA.\n\nThe department of Food and Drugs Services formulates national policies, guidelines and strategies on food and drugs, and ensures ethical delivery of pharmaceutical services nationwide. The department sponsors the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, and acts as regulator through the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria, the Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria and the Institute of Public Analyst of Nigeria.\n\nThe Nigeria Centre for Disease Control is a federal agency under the Ministry. The agency was established in 2010 with the assistance of the US Centers for Disease Control.\n\n"}
{"id": "145893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145893", "title": "Fief", "text": "Fief\n\nA fief (; ) was the central element of feudalism and consisted of heritable property or rights granted by an overlord to a vassal who held it in fealty (or \"in fee\") in return for a form of feudal allegiance and service, usually given by the personal ceremonies of homage and fealty. The fees were often lands or revenue-producing real property held in feudal land tenure: these are typically known as fiefs or fiefdoms. However, not only land but anything of value could be held in fee, including governmental office, rights of exploitation such as hunting or fishing, monopolies in trade, and tax farms.\n\nIn ancient Rome a \"benefice\" (from the Latin noun \"beneficium\", meaning \"benefit\") was a gift of land (\"precaria\") for life as a reward for services rendered, originally, to the state. In medieval Latin European documents, a land grant in exchange for service continued to be called a \"beneficium\" (Latin). Later, the term \"feudum\", or \"feodum\", began to replace \"beneficium\" in the documents. The first attested instance of this is from 984, although more primitive forms were seen up to one hundred years earlier. The origin of the \"feudum\" and why it replaced \"beneficium\" has not been well established, but there are multiple theories, described below.\n\nThe most widely held theory is put forth by Marc Bloch that it is related to the Frankish term \"*fehu-ôd\", in which \"*fehu\" means \"cattle\" and \"-ôd\" means \"goods\", implying \"a moveable object of value.\" When land replaced currency as the primary store of value, the Germanic word \"*fehu-ôd\" replaced the Latin word \"beneficium\". This Germanic origin theory was also shared by William Stubbs in the nineteenth century.\n\nA theory put forward by Archibald R. Lewis that the origin of 'fief' is not \"feudum\" (or \"feodum\"), but rather \"foderum\", the earliest attested use being in Astronomus's \"Vita Hludovici\" (840). In that text is a passage about Louis the Pious which says \"annona militaris quas vulgo foderum vocant\", which can be translated as \"(Louis forbade that) military provender which they popularly call 'fodder' (be furnished).\"\n\nA theory by Alauddin Samarrai suggests an Arabic origin, from \"fuyū\" (the plural of \"fay\", which literally means \"the returned\", and was used especially for 'land that has been conquered from enemies that did not fight'). Samarrai's theory is that early forms of 'fief' include \"feo\", \"feu\", \"feuz\", \"feuum\" and others, the plurality of forms strongly suggesting origins from a loanword. First use of these terms was in Languedoc, one of the least-Germanized areas of Europe and bordered Muslim Spain, where the earliest use of \"feuum\" as a replacement for \"beneficium\" can be dated to 899, the same year a Muslim base at Fraxinetum (La Garde-Freinet) in Provence was established. It is possible, Samarrai says, that French scribes, writing in Latin, attempted to transliterate the Arabic word \"fuyū\" (the plural of \"fay\"), which was being used by the Muslim invaders and occupiers at the time, resulting in a plurality of forms - \"feo, feu, feuz, feuum\" and others - from which eventually \"feudum\" derived. Samarrai, however, also advises medieval and early modern Muslim scribes often used etymologically \"fanciful roots\" in order to claim the most outlandish things to be of Arabian or Muslim origin.\n\nIn the 10th and 11th centuries the Latin terms for fee could be used either to describe dependent tenure held by a man from his lord, as the term is used now by historians, or it could mean simply \"property\" (the manor was, in effect, a small fief). It lacked a precise meaning until the middle of the 12th century, when it received formal definition from land lawyers.\n\nIn English usage, the word \"fee\" is first attested around 1250–1300 (Middle English); the word \"fief\" from around 1605–15. In French, the term \"fief\" is found from the middle of the 13th century (Old French), derived from the 11th-century terms \"feu\", \"fie\". The odd appearance of the second \"f\" in the form \"fief\" may be due to influence from the verb \"fiever\" 'to grant in fee'. In French, one also finds \"seigneurie\" (land and rights possessed by a \"seigneur\" or \"lord\", 12th-century), which gives rise to the expression \"seigneurial system\" to describe feudalism.\n\nOriginally, vassalage did not imply the giving or receiving of landholdings (which were granted only as a reward for loyalty), but by the eighth century the giving of a landholding was becoming standard. The granting of a landholding to a vassal did not relinquish the lord's property rights, but only the use of the lands and their income; the granting lord retained ultimate ownership of the fee and could, technically, recover the lands in case of disloyalty or death. In 8th-century France, Charles Martel was the first to make large-scale and systematic use (the practice had remained until then sporadic) of the remuneration of vassals by the concession of the usufruct of lands (a \"beneficatium\" or \"benefice\" in the documents) for the life of the vassal, or, sometimes extending to the second or third generation.\n\nBy the middle of the 10th century, fee had largely become hereditary. The eldest son of a deceased vassal would inherit, but first he had to do homage and fealty to the lord and pay a \"relief\" for the land (a monetary recognition of the lord's continuing proprietary rights over the property).\n\nHistorically, the fees of the 11th and the 12th century derived from two separate sources. The first was land carved out of the estates of the upper nobility. The second source was allodial land transformed into dependent tenures. During the 10th century in northern France and the 11th century in France south of the Loire, local magnates either recruited or forced the owners of allodial holdings into dependent relationships and they were turned into fiefs. The process occurred later in Germany, and was still going on in the 13th century.\n\nIn England, Henry II transformed them into important sources of royal income and patronage. The discontent of barons with royal claims to arbitrarily assessed \"reliefs\" and other feudal payments under Henry's son King John resulted in Magna Carta of 1215.\n\nEventually, great feudal lords sought also to seize governmental and legal authority (the collection of taxes, the right of high justice, etc.) in their lands, and some passed these rights to their own vassals.\n\nThe privilege of minting official coins developed into the concept of seigniorage.\n\nIn 13th-century Germany, Italy, England, France, and Spain the term \"feodum\" was used to describe a dependent tenure held from a lord by a vassal in return for a specified amount of knight service and occasional financial payments (feudal incidents).\n\nHowever, knight service in war was far less common than:\n\nA lord in late 12th-century England and France could also claim the right of: \n\nIn northern France in the 12th and 13th centuries, military service for fiefs was limited for offensive campaigns to 40 days for a knight. By the 12th century, English and French kings and barons began to commute military service for cash payments (scutages), with which they could purchase the service of mercenaries.\n\nA list of several hundred such fees held in chief between 1198 and 1292, along with their holders' names and form of tenure, was published in three volumes between 1920 and 1931 and is known as \"The Book of Fees\"; it was developed from the 1302 \"Testa de Nevill\".\n\n"}
{"id": "262985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262985", "title": "Gleneagles Agreement", "text": "Gleneagles Agreement\n\nIn the Gleneagles Agreement, in 1977, Commonwealth Presidents and Prime Ministers agreed, as part of their support for the international campaign against apartheid, to discourage contact and competition between their sportsmen and sporting organisations, teams or individuals from South Africa. The agreement was unanimously approved by the Commonwealth of Nations at a meeting at Gleneagles, Perthshire, Scotland.\n\nThe Gleneagles Agreement reinforced their commitment, embodied in the Singapore Declaration of Commonwealth Principles (1971), to oppose racism. This commitment was further strengthened by the Declaration on Racism and Racial Prejudice, adopted by Commonwealth leaders in Lusaka in 1979. The Commonwealth was a relevant body to impose a sporting ban on South Africa because several of the sports most popular among white South Africans are dominated by Commonwealth member states, for example cricket and rugby union.\n\n"}
{"id": "52408575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52408575", "title": "Hans Meiser (bishop)", "text": "Hans Meiser (bishop)\n\nHans Meiser (16 February 1881, Nuremberg - 8 June 1956, Munich) was a German Protestant theologian, pastor and from 1933 to 1955 the first 'Landesbischof' of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Bavaria.\n\nToday Meiser's political stance between 1933 and 1945 is intensely studied and debated within the parameters of Germany's Culture of Remembrance. In his unsuccessful attempt to maintain his 'landeskirche' and its independence he decided to make several compromises with the Nazi state. His attitude towards Judaism is also controversial in light of studies of the Shoah.\n\nTheologically, Meiser was in the tradition of Wilhelm Loehe, supporting a single church with a single clear Lutheran confessional identity. Unlike other Bavarian theology professors such as Werner Elert, Paul Althaus and Hermann Sasse, Meiser explicitly recognized the Barmen Theological Declaration and engaged with the links it brought to Unitarians and the Reformed Church. His confessional orientation aligned him with Theophil Wurm and divided him from Martin Niemöller.\n\nIn 1933, Hitler sought to centralize his control over Germany’s Protestant Churches by establishing a ‘Reich Church’ which would put all 28 protestant bishops under the authority of one Reich bishop, answerable to Hitler. Despite the agreement to this plan by the vast majority of Protestant bishops, Bishop Hans Meiser of the Bavarian Diocese, together with Theophil Wurm, a Bishop of the neighboring diocese, refused. Their objection was not due to theological reasons, but was instead an insistence that their churches maintain their traditional independence. Meiser and Wurm did not protest the Nazi regime or Hitler.\n\nFollowing their refusals, Meiser and Wurm mobilized their congregations in opposition to the Reich Church. Through speaking Meiser was able to produce popular opinion throughout Protestant Bavaria that the regional Nazis could not overturn. For example, “some six thousand gathered in support of Meiser while only a few dutifully showed up at a meeting of the region’s party leader, Julius Streicher.” This mobilization and the information given to church members increased numbers in protests and protest services. The regional paper accused Bishop Meiser of treason in prominent headlines. In October 1934, Hitler’s Reich Bishop (Reichsbischof) Ludwig Müller placed Bishops Meiser and Wurm under house arrest, declared that they were no longer Church officials, and named successors to be bishops in their place. In the two weeks following Meiser’s arrest, mass public protest spread into “one of the largest” protests in the Third Reich.\n\nAfter the Bishops were under house arrest for two weeks, Hitler backed down, released Meiser and Wurm, and restored them as Bishops of their dioceses. In addition, Reich Bishop Müller was removed. These dramatic events illustrated how this protest movement tested the regime and its limits. Compared to brutal backlashes of the regime like the Night of the Long Knives, Hitler chose to appease the Protestant protesters even though, in effect, his hopes for a Reich Church were now negated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "156352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156352", "title": "Hatch Act of 1887", "text": "Hatch Act of 1887\n\nThe Hatch Act of 1887 (ch. 314, , enacted 1887-03-02, et seq.) gave federal funds, initially of $15,000 each, to state land-grant colleges in order to create a series of agricultural experiment stations, as well as pass along new information, especially in the areas of soil minerals and plant growth. The bill was named for Congressman William Hatch, who chaired the House Committee of Agriculture at the time the bill was introduced. State agricultural stations created under this act were usually connected with those land-grant state colleges and universities founded under the Morrill Act of 1862, with few exceptions.\n\nMany stations founded under the Hatch Act later became the foundations for state cooperative extension services under the Smith-Lever Act of 1914.\n\nCongress amended the act in 1955 to add a formula that uses rural and farm population factors to allocate the annual appropriation for agricultural experiment stations among the states. Under the 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107-171, Sec. 7212), states will continue to be required to provide at least 100% matching funds (traditionally, most states have provided more). On average, Hatch Act formula funds constitute 10% of total funding for each experiment station. (7 U.S.C. 361a et seq.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "653178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=653178", "title": "Icarians", "text": "Icarians\n\nThe Icarians were a French-based utopian socialist movement, established by the followers of politician, journalist, and author Étienne Cabet. In an attempt to put his economic and social theories into practice, Cabet led his followers to the United States of America in 1848, where the Icarians established a series of egalitarian communes in the states of Texas, Illinois, Iowa, Missouri, and California. The movement split several times due to factional disagreements.\n\nThe last community of Icarians, located a few miles outside Corning, Iowa, disbanded voluntarily in 1898. The 46 years of tenure at this location made the Corning Icarian Colony one of the longest-lived non-religious communal living experiments in US history.\n\nÉtienne Cabet was born in Dijon, France in 1788 to a middle-class family of artisans. Cabet attended a Roman Catholic secondary school and continued his education, ultimately earning a Doctorate of Law degree in 1812. Cabet was not inclined towards jurisprudence, however, preferring the rough and tumble of politics and journalism. Following the fall of Napoleon Bonaparte in 1815, Cabet became active in the struggle against conservative theocratic monarchism, participating in political groups which espoused a constitutional and republican form of government under monarchical leadership.\n\nIn 1820 Cabet moved to Paris, the political center of the French nation. There he continued to participate in secret revolutionary societies, at considerable personal risk. It ultimately took a decade for this underground political effort to bear fruit when in July 1830 revolution erupted seeking the fundamental change of the conservative regime which had gained power in the Bourbon Restoration following the fall of Napoleon.\n\nThis Revolution of 1830 in a matter of a few frenzied days forced the abdication of the conservative monarch Charles X and returned constitutional government to France. Cabet played a leading role in the revolution as a leading member of the so-called \"Insurrection Committee,\" activity for which he was recognized with appointment as Attorney-General for Corsica following the coronation of Louis Philippe as king.\n\nHistorian Morris Hillquit has argued that the posting of Cabet to Corsica was a calculated \"shrewd move on the part of the government\" to remove a prominent radical critic from the political hothouse of Paris \"under the guise of a reward for his services during the revolution.\" Be that as it may, despite his employment as a government functionary in Corsica, Cabet moved into criticism of the new Orléanist regime for its conservatism and half-measures with respect to constitutional rule and the democratic rights of the people. This brought about Cabet's prompt removal from office by the new regime in Paris, at whose pleasure Cabet served.\n\nFollowing his dismissal as Corsican Attorney-General, Cabet turned his hand to writing, authoring a four volume history of the French Revolution. He also remained active in politics and was elected as a deputy to the lower chamber of the National Assembly in 1834. Cabet emerged as a fierce opponent of the new conservative regime and a potential revolutionary leader, drawing the attention of the regime and its repressive mechanism. In an effort to eliminate the dangerous democratic agitator, Cabet was given the choice of two years' imprisonment or five years in foreign exile. He decided upon the latter punishment and immediately went into exile in England.\n\nDuring his five years of English exile, Cabet dedicated himself to philosophical and economic study, carefully considering the relationship between political structures and economic welfare throughout history. Cabet's findings were later summarized thus by one of his acolytes:\n\nCabet turned to the idea of reorganization of society on a communal basis — known as \"Communism\" in the terminology of the day. His ideas for the modification of society closely paralleled those of a man he met in English exile, Robert Owen.\n\nIn 1839, his five years' exile in England completed, Cabet returned to his native France. Upon his return he began writing a book to expound his economic and social ideas, following the example of Thomas More and using the form of an allegorical novel which allowed not only the exposition of the ideal form of administration but an opportunity for cloaked criticism of the existing regime.\n\nThe result of Cabet's writing was published in 1840 as \"Voyage en Icarie\" (Voyage to Icaria). A rough translation by Cabet was serialized in Icarian periodicals of the 1850s; an additional translation by academic specialist Robert Sutton has been deposited with the Library of Congress, although it remains unpublished. a basic plot outline was published by Morris Hillquit in 1903:\n\nAlthough regarded today as a \"plodding melodrama\" in which the reader was inundated with \"tedious details of incidental aspects of Icarian life,\" Cabet's book was well received by readers of his day, with the principles it outlined viewed by many as a blueprint for advancement from a disappointing present to a glorious future. Multiple editions of the book followed in quick succession and with public interest awakened Cabet quickly made the transition from author to builder of a practical movement to advance the communal ideas which he had expounded. In March 1841 Cabet launched a monthly magazine, \"Le Populaire,\" as well as an annual \"Icarian Almanac\" to help propagandize and organize the new political movement's supporters.\n\nSo-called \"Icarianism\" attracted numerous supporters in such French cities as Reims, Leon, Nantes, Toulouse, and Toulon, with Cabet claiming the existence of 50,000 adherents of his ideas by the end of 1843. These supporters began to see Cabet as a political messiah and sought to implement the leader's ideas in a practical setting. It was gradually decided in this period that France did not present a favorable economic, political, or social environment for the implementation of the Icarian ideas; instead, the United States of America was chosen as a more fitting site for colonization – a nation with vast expanses of relatively inexpensive land and a democratic political tradition.\n\nIn May 1847, Cabet's organ \"Le Populaire\" carried a lengthy article entitled \"Allons en Icarie\" (Let Us Go to Icaria), detailing the proposal to establish an American colony based upon the Icarian political and economic ideals and calling for those committed to building an artisanal and agrarian community to volunteer. The wheels were thus set in motion for the formation of what was intended to be a prosperous and enviable collective entity.\n\nCabet believed that at least 10,000 or 20,000 working men would immediately enlist in the American colonization scheme, with the number soon swelling to a million skilled workers and artisans. Towns and huge cities bursting with industry would shortly follow, with accompanying schools and cultural facilities assuring the good life for a happy and fulfilled community. Announcement of the plan was met with enthusiasm, and offers of participation along with gifts of money, seeds, farm implements, clothing, books, and other valuable and useful items began to flow in.\n\nCabet gave himself the task of choosing a precise location for colonization. Cabet turned to his friend Robert Owen for advice, traveling to London in September 1847 to consult with his British co-thinker. Owen recommended colonization in the new American state of Texas, a location reckoned to possess vast tracts of unoccupied land which would be as inexpensive as it was plentiful. Cabet made contact with a Texas land agent, The Peters Company, which agreed to present to Owen title for 1 million acres of land so long as it was colonized by July 1, 1848.\n\nOn February 3, 1848 a so-called \"advance guard\" of 69 Icarians departed from Le Havre, France for a new life in Texas, leaving aboard the sailing ship \"Rome.\" These were to proceed to the port of New Orleans and to make their way from there to the designated area in Texas, which was represented as being in close proximity to the Red River. The advance guard arrived in America on March 27, 1848.\n\nThey were quick to discover that they had been deceived and that the actual lands designated for colonization were fully 25 miles away from the Red River; moreover, colony lands were not contiguous, but rather were separated into a checkerboard fashion, alternating state and private lands, making integrated communal life not possible. Moreover, instead of the promised 1 million acres, actual contractual terms of the land distribution provided for the distribution of 320 acres of land to 3,125 individuals or families who each had to construct a log cabin and occupy their allotment by the deadline date of July 1, 1848. With only 69 hands available for the construction, there was little hope for construction of more than about 30 cabins by the deadline. The promised 1 million acres was thereby transformed into perhaps 10,000. By 1849, only 281 Icarians stayed loyal to Cabet and remained to rebuild, whereas the rest went back to France.\n\nThe party could only proceed by boat to Shreveport. A wagon was obtained and loaded it with provisions for a difficult overland trek via the Bonham Trail to a resting place halfway to the final destination. The first group of 25 men departed on April 8, followed in a second wagon by 14 others shortly thereafter. Both wagons broke down en route and the 39 Icarians were forced to proceed in small groups, packing what they could on their backs. It was not until April 21 that they arrived at their resting place, still more than a hundred difficult miles from their goal.\n\nOnly 27 intrepid French settlers were able to make the final leg of the trip from the farm designated as a resting place to their new Texan utopia, a site located in today's Denton County in Texas (northwest of Dallas). The small group arrived June 2, 1848, and immediately began a frenzied effort to construct dwellings in order to stake their land claims, attempting at the same time to plow and farm the prairie. Virtually no time remained to meet the terms of the land concession. The hot summer sun began to bake the ground. Poorly fed, poorly housed, overworked and exhausted, the Icarian colonists next fell victim to an outbreaks of cholera and malaria, illnesses which killed four and sickened the rest. Making a bad situation still worse, the one medical doctor in the company broke down into a state of insanity and deserted his fellows.\n\nBack home in France, the Revolution of 1848 had long been in full swing and King Louis Philippe overthrown. The necessity of emigration to achieve democratic reforms seemed less compelling and the volunteers for Icarian colonization in America melted away. Some 1500 settlers were planned for the next wave of settlers; only 19 made the trip, of whom barely more than half ever made it to Texas to join the beleaguered \"advance guard\" in their Sisyphian task.\n\nThe grim reality of their situation now clear, the Texas colonization venture was written off as a total loss by the participants and the survivors divided into small groups to make their way back to Shreveport and from there to New Orleans. Four more died en route. Finally arriving in New Orleans late in 1848, the Texas pioneers were met by several hundred colonization enthusiasts from France, who had been slowly congregating in that city. Their mood was grim.\n\nNews of the Texas catastrophe reached Cabet in France and on December 13, 1848, he set out from Liverpool for America in an attempt to shore up the project. After landing in New York, he shipped out again for New Orleans, disembarking there on January 19, 1849. Cabet found his supporters in disarray, \"in the deplorable spirit of a defeated army,\" to borrow words from an official history by the group. A portion of the prospective colonists sought to abandon the project and to return to France; others sought to continue the colonization project in a more suitable locale.\n\nOn January 21 the colonists held a general meeting to decide their fate. Cabet declared that if a majority sought to return home to France, he would support the decision — although with all the costs absorbed in the previous year such a move would have meant financial disaster for all. A small majority of 280 decided to continue with the colonization project if a more suitable locale was found; 200 sought to return. A formal split of the Icarians along these lines immediately followed, the first of three great factional rifts which would split the movement.\n\nAn amount of money was pared from the treasury to send the 200 disaffected Icarians home to Le Havre. Once back in France, many of the former Icarian colonists initiated legal proceedings against Cabet for fraud – charges which he was ultimately forced home to answer.\n\nThe majority, consisting of about 280 people, joined Cabet in setting out for the Mississippi River town of Nauvoo, located in Hancock County, Illinois, where the Icarian experiment finally began in earnest.\n\nNauvoo was founded in 1839 for the gathering of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. Even though Joseph Smith, the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, was killed in 1844, by 1845 Nauvoo had grown to a community of about 15,000 people – dwarfing the city of Chicago, which had only about 8,000 inhabitants at that time. Under threat of continuing violence from the surrounding communities and following a succession crisis, most of the Latter-day Saints, under Brigham Young left in 1846 for Salt Lake City, Utah, the current headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Latter-day Saints later sold their land to the Icarians in 1849.\n\nNauvoo would become the first permanent Icarian Community, the Icarians immediately adopting the charter and structure described in Cabet's \"Voyage en Icarie\". The structure included an annually elected president and one officer each to administrate finance, farming, industry, and education. New members were admitted by a majority approval vote by the adult males, after living in the commune for four months, forfeiting all personal property, and pledging $80. Nonetheless, visitors were welcome to stay as long as they wished in a hotel.\n\nEvery family used the same amount of space (two rooms in an apartment building), and were allowed the same amount of furniture. After the age of four, children lived apart from their parents at a boarding school, and visited families only on Sundays. This was done to foster a love for the community \"without developing special affection for parents\" from a young age, theoretically instrumental to the smooth working of a Utopian society. Sundays were not what would be a typical religious Sunday; the Icarians practiced no religion, but there were days people voluntarily gathered in a fellowship called \"Cours icarien\" to discuss Cabet's writings and Christian morals and ethics. \nBecause long-term celibacy was viewed askance by the community, marriage was the norm. Divorce was acceptable under the assumption individuals would remarry soon.\n\nWith the basic need of shelter immediately settled, a short period of energetic growth and relative prosperity followed. Farmland was rented, a saw mill and flour mill opened, workshops established, and schools and a theater founded. A periodical press was launched, publishing in French, English, and German, and an office was established in Paris to recruit adherents for the American colony. The Nauvoo cultural life thrived. The Icarians held regular band concerts and theatre productions. Their library consisted of an extensive collection, ranging from reference works to applied science to popular novels, all in English and French, and totaling over 4,000 volumes. By 1855 there would be more than 500 participants in the Icarian project.\n\nPolitical disagreements and personal animosities would lead to the second major split of the Icarians in America. Étienne Cabet began in America in 1849 with the authority of the sect's unquestioned leader, status which was freely granted to him by those inspired to action by the man's writings. This individual status as supreme decision-maker stood in marked contradiction to the democratic ideals of the community, however. Cabet himself realized as much and in 1850 he proposed a constitution which provided for an elected President and an elected board of directors, which would supplant the absolute, personal authority of the unitary leader. This system functioned effectively for a time.\n\nIn 1852, a lawsuit was filed in Paris against Cabet by a number of dissident former Icarians, who claimed their property was obtained by him by means of fraud. Cabet returned to France for 18 months to fight these charges. When he returned to America, Cabet began to push through a series of restrictive rules, including the prohibition of talking in workshops, banning the use of tobacco or alcohol, and other regulations which were unpopular with some members of the community. He also moved to reestablish his own personal decision-making authority over the entire community, proposing in December 1855 to revise the constitution to provide for a powerful President elected to a four-year term. This President, under Cabet's new scheme, would have the ability to control all aspects of the community's government.\n\nThis position by Cabet was anathema to a majority of the Icarian cooperators, who were deeply inspired and influenced by the history and traditions of the Great French Revolution and its democratic ideals. Cabet's position was deeply held by him as essential to the preservation of the community's moral fiber, however, and in his position he was staunchly supported by \"a strong minority.\"\n\nThe factional battle continued for a year between the Dissidents, led by Alexis Armel Marchand and Jean Baptist Gerard, and the Cabetists, finally resolving itself in a formal split. The Cabetists were expelled, and Cabet led about 170 of his followers out of Nauvoo in October 1856, heading downstream along the Mississippi to the bustling metropolis of St. Louis to establish a new colony in that vicinity.\n\nShattered by the loss of about 40% of its members and no longer able to raise financial support in France, the Nauvoo colony of the majority faction ultimately encountered financial difficulties and was forced to disband in 1860. Many of the participants of the defunct Nauvoo colony would join the parallel Icarian colony in Iowa.\n\nThe Icarians who had left Nauvoo owing to their support of personal leadership of Cabet and his restrictive behavioral agenda arrived in St. Louis on November 6, 1856. In an ironic twist of fate, the leader for whom they had executed the split of Icaria in Nauvoo, Étienne Cabet, died just two days later. The new leader became a thirty-two-year-old lawyer named Benjamin Mercadier.\n\nOn February 15, 1858, a group of 151 Icarians took possession of a few hundred acres in Cheltenham, St. Louis, Missouri. These Cabetists used Cabet's money and put down $500 on a $25,000 mortgage for thirty-nine acres and three buildings southwest of this city. Adjusting to a new area and new locals was difficult, but the Icarians adopted a constitution, a replica of the Nauvoo one, worked in the city, and enrolled their children into the local public schools. The colony quickly fell into various arguments. During the Civil War, many young men joined the Union cause. By 1864, only about twenty residents remained on the property. For the rest of the people, epidemics of dysentery and cholera occurred in the warmer months. Because the Icarians could not meet the mortgage payments, in March 1864, Arsène Sauva returned the keys to the property to St. Louis banker Thomas Allen (from whom the property had been purchased in 1858), leaving a large debt. That same year, most members left the community, and the Cheltenham Icaria was no longer extant.\n\nIn 1872, the buildings went into a state of disrepair, and in 1875, a fire destroyed the buildings on this property, removing the last evidence of the Icarian colony.\n\nIn 1852, Icarians purchased land in Adams County, Iowa to form a new permanent settlement, and Icarians began settling southwest of Queen City in 1853. In 1860, when the Nauvoo colony went bankrupt, many members of the community moved to the new site in Iowa. The settlers arrived with nothing but their skills along with $20,000 of debt. Their land was that of where they first found shelter in mud hovels and then in crudely built log cabins. The colony near what became Corning, Iowa was granted a charter of incorporation by the state of Iowa in 1860. The community prospered during the Civil War by selling food at good prices, and they were able to pay their collective debt by 1870.\n\nIn the spring of 1874 the Icarian colony near Corning was visited by Charles Nordhoff, who was travelling the United States doing investigative research on such communities in preparation for writing a book. At that time Nordhoff found a two-story building, 60 feet by 24, which served as a collective dining hall, washhouse, and school. About a dozen cheaply built frame houses sheltered the colonists, who at the time included about 65 members in 11 families. Most of those in the community were of French ethnicity, and French was the language spoken by the colonists, although among their number were included \"one American, one Swiss, a Swede, a Spaniard, and two Germans.\"\n\nNordhoff wrote:\n\nThe children look remarkably healthy, and on Sunday were dressed with great taste. The living is still of the plainest. In the common dining-hall they assemble in groups at the tables, which were without a cloth, and they drink out of tin cups, and pour their water from tin cans. 'It is very plain,' said one to me; 'but we are independent — no man's servants — and we are content.'\n\nNordhoff noted that the Iowa colony sold to the market about 2,500 pounds of wool annually, as well as cattle and hogs and the product of its manufacturing facilities. The group continued to operate under an elaborate constitution written by Cabet, \"which lays down with great care the equality and brotherhood of mankind, and the duty of holding all things in common; abolishes servitude or service (or servants); commands marriage, under penalties; provides for education; and requires that the majority shall rule.\"\n\nGovernance was based upon weekly meetings of all adults each Saturday, with a President elected annually as formal head of the colony but officers for the conduct of meetings elected each week. In addition to the President there were four elected directors, in charge of agriculture, clothing, industry, and construction, respectively.\n\nNordhoff noted that the community had no formal religious observances. Instead, \"Sunday is a day of rest from labor, when the young men go out with guns, and the society sometimes has theatrical representations, or music, or some kind of amusement. The principle is to let each one do as he pleases.\"\n\nIn the 1870s, the Icarian colony near Corning had another split. The \"\"vieux icariens\" were against allowing women the right to vote, but the \"jeunes icariens\"\" were in favor. By a vote of 31–17, the entire community voted against the franchise for women. After that, the \"jeunes icariens\" moved to a new site on the same property about one mile southeast. The move was done by moving eight frame houses from the original colony. The \"vieux icariens\" community was no longer viable and was forced to disband due to bankruptcy in 1878. The new community established a new constitution in 1879.\n\nIn 1898, this last community of Icarians disbanded voluntarily; the members chose to integrate into the surrounding towns. Its 46 years in existence made the Corning Icarian community the longest-lived non-religious communal living experiment in American history.\n\nA historical exhibit about the Icarians can be found in the lobby of the Adams County hall in Corning, and a living history site is being rebuilt on the location of the site where the Icarians lived until 1898.\n\nA new colony of \"Icaria Speranza\" was established by Jules Leroux (brother of French socialist philosopher Pierre Leroux) and Armand Dehay, who in 1881 moved from Jeune Icarie to an area just south of Cloverdale, California. The group bought the 885-acre Bluxome ranch on the Russian River, which included vineyards, orchards, and arable land. Originally named Speranza, after Leroux's review \"L'Esperance\", the community gained remaining members of Young Icaria and became Icaria-Speranza. \nAt its height, the settlement had an estimated population of 55 individuals. This settlement disbanded in 1886. Today there is an historical marker just south of town marking where their schoolhouse was.\n\nA charter created by the Society in 1853 specified that residents of the Nauvoo colony were required to donate all their worldly goods to the community, which had to include a minimum of $60. Those who passed a probationary period of four months would be allowed to move to the permanent colony in Iowa.\n\nThe Icarians lived in communal dwellings of dormitories that shared central living and dining areas. All families lived in two equal rooms in an apartment building and had the same kind of furniture. Children were raised in a communal creche, not just by their own parents. Tasks were divided among the group; one might be a seamstress and never need to cook.\n\nWhen the Icarians first arrived at Nauvoo on March 15, 1849, they purchased a number of buildings, grounds, houses, cattle and the burned-out Mormon Temple which they intended to use as an academy or school.\n\nAfter all purchases and repairs were done, the Nauvoo Icarian village consisted of a dwelling of individual apartments, two schools (one for girls and the other for boys), two infirmaries, a pharmacy, a large community kitchen with dining hall, a bakery, a butchery, and a room for laundry facilities. Soon thereafter, a steam-powered flour mill, a distillery, pigsty and sawmill were added. A local coal mine was worked for fuel.\n\nAll work was divided by gender. Men worked as tailors, masons, wheelwrights, shoemakers, mechanics, blacksmiths, carpenters, tanners, and butchers. Women worked as cooks, seamstresses, washerwomen and ironers.\n\nTo earn money, the Icarians established commerce with the outside world by a small store outside St. Louis. Here they sold their handmade shoes, boots and dresses, and also sold items made by the mills and distillery.\n\nThe Icarians believed in a higher power and had a ten-section principle that briefly stated what they thought was needed in a perfect society.\n\nThe religion of choice should have an understanding of the following:\n\nAt eighteen years of age, the Icarians were instructed on world religions. Marriage in the community was highly encouraged, almost insisted upon. Divorce was allowed; however, members were encouraged to remarry as soon as possible.\n\nCabet's book \"Vrai christianisme\" (\"True Christianity\") was often read from and formed the dominant influence on religious thought, though it was not intended as a specific instruction on religious observances. In the Iowa colony, the Icarians adopted the practice of an informal religious gathering known as the \"Cours Icariens\" (\"Icarian Course\") on Sunday afternoons. In addition to reading from \"Vrai christianisme\" and other books, these gatherings included quiet games and conversation.\n\nCulture in Icaria was the second highest priority, second only to education. The community held several concerts and theatrical productions for the entertainment of its members, performing works such as \"The Salamander\", \"Death to the Rats\", \"Six Heads in a Hat\", or \"Fisherman's Daughter\".\n\nIn Nauvoo, there was a library of over 4,000 books, the biggest in Illinois at the time. The community also distributed a biweekly newspaper titled \"Colonie Icarienne\".\n\nThe most important holidays were February 3, the anniversary of the First Departure of Icarians from France, and July 4, the summer festival. On July 4, the refectory was decorated with garlands and boughs; cardboard signs declared \"Equality\", \"Freedom\", and \"Unity\", and banners had quotations like \"All for Each; Each for All\", \"To Each According to Their Needs\", and \"First Right is to Live; First Duty is to Work\". They raised the American flag and played the \"Star Spangled Banner\" and \"America\". They travelled into Corning to watch the Fourth of July parade, but they remained apart from the anglophone Americans. At the end of the day, they returned to Icaria (three miles east) for a banquet, dance, and theatrical presentation. Icarians also celebrated Christmas, New Year's Day, and the \"Fete du Mais\", a fall harvest corn festival similar to Thanksgiving.\n\nMen and women were given equal participation opportunities in weekly community assemblies, voting on admissions, constitutional changes, and the election of the officer in charge of clothing and lodging.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3385552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3385552", "title": "International Peace Conference", "text": "International Peace Conference\n\nThe International Peace Conference was an anti-war conference held on December 10, 2005. It was organised by the Stop the War Coalition (StWC), and included speakers from Iraq, the United States, and Italy.\n\nThe conference sold out a week before its occurrence, leaving many people who wished to attend the conference disappointed. 1,500 tickets were sold for the event, which was held in the Royal Horticultural Hall in Vincent Square, London. The conference began at 10 a.m. and ended at 8 p.m. 33 people spoke from the platform in four different sessions. In an unusual move, media organisations were made to pay to attend the conference. According to a StWC spokesperson, this was because the coalition had little funds, and the conference was costing £25,000 to put on.\n\nThe conference was opened by the veteran Labour Party campaigner Tony Benn. Benn told the conference delegates that the anti-war movement which is calling for troops to be withdrawn from Iraq is the biggest he had seen in this lifetime.\n\nOther speakers included Cindy Sheehan, the American anti-war activist whose son died in Iraq, who spoke in a session alongside other relatives of soldiers who have died in Iraq, including Reg Keys and Rose Gentle from Military Families Against the War. There were also speakers from Iraq representing different Iraqi groups that oppose the military occupation. Hassan Juma, president of the Iraqi Southern Oil Workers Union, condemned what he claimed were attempts by America to asset-strip Iraq through privatizing its services. Sheikh Hussein al Zagani, a representative of Muqtada al-Sadr was due to speak at the conference, but was denied a visa by the UK government. This move was condemned by the conference.\n\nGeorge Galloway, the Respect Party politician, ended the conference in which he urged people to build for a planned international demonstration on March 18, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "40336009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40336009", "title": "Julieta Castellanos", "text": "Julieta Castellanos\n\nJulieta Castellanos (born 8 January 1954) is a Honduran sociologist and the rector of the National Autonomous University of Honduras (UNAH) since 2009. Castellanos has campaigned against violence in Honduras, focusing on both drug cartels and police corruption. She has advocated for both judicial and police reform. Castellanos founded the Observatorio de la Violencia (Violence Observatory) at UNAH in 2004, a center that analyzes crime statistics in Honduras. She was also a member of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which was tasked with clarifying the facts related to the 2009 coup that ousted President Manuel Zelaya.\n\nJulieta Castellanos Ruiz was born in San Francisco de Becerra, Olancho on 8 January 1954 to Rafael Castellanos of Santa Bárbara, and Ernestina Ruiz of Olancho. She grew up in the rural Honduran sugar fields. In 1968 her father brought her an examination for admission to the Normal School for Girls in the city of Tegucigalpa. She was accepted and graduated in 1973 with a teaching degree. In 1974 she won two scholarships to study Social Work at the National Autonomous University of Honduras (UNAH) and Social Sciences in the College of Teachers. After several years of study, she finished her studies witth a B.A. in Sociology from the University of Costa Rica.\n\nAfter completing her studies Castellanos became a professor at UNAH in 1978. She was head of the Social Sciences Department and President of the Association of Teachers from 1997 to 2001. Castellanos also served as President of the Association of Professors of the University Center of General Studies (CUEG) in 1986, Coordinator of the Violence Observatory since 2005, consultant to the Arias Foundation for Human Progress and the Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA), and Research Associate of the Centro de Documentatión de Honduras (CEDOH). She is also a member of the Inter-American Dialogue.\n\nFor 13 years, Castellanos was also the author of a newspaper column.\n\nCastellanos was elected to a four-year term as Rector of the National Autonomous University of Honduras in 2009. At the time of her appointment she served as Coordinator of the UNAH Violence Observatory and Director of the Instituto Universitario en Democracia Paz y Seguridad (Institute for Democracy, Peace and Security, IUDPAS), which was created with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) when Castellanos worked as a consultant for the UNDP. Castellanos replaced Jorge Abraham Arita, who was recalled for incompetence. In a press conference, College Board president Olvin Rodriguez highlighted the accomplishments of Castellanos. According to Rodriguez, she was chosen for being well-respected, not only by the university community, but also by Honduran society and internationally.\n\nShortly after her appointment, President Manuel Zelaya was ousted in a coup. During a demonstration by University students, Castellanos was pushed down by police when she attempted to stop them from breaking up the gathering. During her tenure as rector, she has clashed with SITRAUNAH, the union for the University's employees, and has been criticized for the firing of 60 employees who were protesting on the University's premises in 2009. Castellanos oversaw the construction of a sports complex, an administrative building, and a university clinic, for which UNAH invested L1,500 million.\n\nCastellanos' four years as rector ended in April 2013. She remained interim rector and was re-elected for another term as head of the university in September 2013.\n\nCastellanos has been a vocal advocate for police reform and measures to curb violent crime in Honduras. She pushed for an international commission to oversee a purge of the police, an idea that was approved by the National Congress. Castellanos has also weighed in on gun politics in Honduras, calling on the Honduran armed forces to destroy illegal firearms, including AK-47s.\n\nIn October 2011, Castellanos' 22-year-old son was kidnapped and murdered by Honduran national police. The incident called attention to the degree of corruption within the Honduran police. Castellanos called for an end to foreign aid for the Honduran police and military, demanding that they \"stop feeding the beast.\"\n\nCastellanos was presented with the inaugural Martin Luther King, Jr. Award on 20 April 2012 at a ceremony sponsored by the Martin Luther King, Jr. Foundation and the Instituto Hondureño de Cultura Interamericana.\n\nCastellanos received the International Women of Courage Award in March 2013 from the U.S. State Department. The award was presented by US Secretary of State John Kerry and First Lady Michelle Obama.\n\n"}
{"id": "18137585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18137585", "title": "LGBT rights organization", "text": "LGBT rights organization\n\nLGBT rights organizations are civil rights, health, and community organizations created and existing to further the civil and human rights and health of sexual minorities and to improve the LGBT community.\n\nLGBT organizations may range from more moderate, liberal, organizations such as Stonewall (UK), to more outspoken organizations such as OutRage! in the U.K. and Bash Back! in the U.S., to the conservative, Log Cabin Republicans, in the U.S..\n\nThe first LGBT rights organizations began to emerge in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Early LGBT rights organizations were primarily research-oriented psychiatric organizations that took a sympathetic, rather than corrective approach to homosexuality. such as the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee (Wissenschaftlich-humanitäres Komitee, WhK), which was founded in 1897 by Magnus Hirschfeld, an outspoken advocate for LGBT and women's rights in Germany.\n\nEarly LGBT organizations in the United States were, like earlier German organizations, primarily centered around the rights of gay men. The Society for Human Rights was founded in 1924 in Chicago, Illinois by Henry Gerber, who was inspired by Hirschfeld's work in Germany and produced the first gay-rights-oriented publication in the US, \"Friendship and Freedom\". The first national gay rights organization, the Mattachine Society, was formed in 1951, was created by Harry Hay.\n\nThe first lesbian rights organization in the US was founded in 1955. The Daughters of Bilitis was founded in San Francisco, California by activist couple Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon. In 1966, National Transsexual Counseling Unit was formed in San Francisco.\n\nIn the wake of the Stonewall riots, LGBT organizations began to flourish around the United States, including politically active organizations. The Alice B. Toklas LGBT Democratic Club was founded in 1971 by Martin & Lyon, as well as activists Beth Elliot and Ben Foster. In 1976, Harvey Milk founded a splinter organization known as the San Francisco Gay Democratic Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "42801008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42801008", "title": "Lal Galiyare Se", "text": "Lal Galiyare Se\n\nLal Galiyare Se (लाल गलियारे से) is a 3-episode series on left-wing extremism and its effects on the development of Indian states. It won News and Television Award for best Hindi news documentary 2014.\n\n\"Lal Galiyare Se\" is a 3-episode news documentary series produced to highlight and emphasize the issue of left-wing extremism or Naxalism spread over 150 districts of India. The Indian government has already proclaimed this issue the single biggest internal security threat.\n\nTwo correspondents Omprakash Das and Sudhir Kumar traveled across major naxal affected areas (Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh) and found some untold stories of local people and government development efforts.\n\nEach episode had a duration of c. 27-28 minutes. The first two episodes were shown on 24 and 31 August 2013, and the last episode was broadcast on 14 September.\n\n"}
{"id": "736040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=736040", "title": "List of central banks", "text": "List of central banks\n\nThis is a list of central banks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n105393693\n\n"}
{"id": "1917208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917208", "title": "List of things named after Charles de Gaulle", "text": "List of things named after Charles de Gaulle\n\nIn France, and around the world, many things have been named after Charles de Gaulle.\n\nMany streets and public buildings in France bear the name of Charles de Gaulle. They include:\n\nDe Gaulle is also commemorated outside France, particularly in street names. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40582520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40582520", "title": "Ministry of Fishing and Aquaculture (Brazil)", "text": "Ministry of Fishing and Aquaculture (Brazil)\n\nThe Ministry of Fishing and Aquaculture (, abbreviated MPA) is a cabinet-level federal ministry in Brazil. The ministry reports directly to the President of Brazil in formulating policies and guidelines for the development and promotion of fishing and aquaculture. The ministry was established on January 1, 2003 under the name of the Special Secretariat of Aquaculture and Fisheries (\"Secretaria Especial da Aquicultura e Pesca\", SEAP). Its elevation to ministry level occurred on June 26, 2009 under Law No. 11,958. The current Minister of Fishing is Helder Barbalho.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2357630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2357630", "title": "Monty White", "text": "Monty White\n\nA.J. Monty White is a British young Earth creationist and was formerly the Chief Executive of the UK branch of Answers in Genesis. White is a graduate of the University of Wales; he obtained a BSc in Chemistry in 1967 and in 1970 earned his PhD for research in the kinetic theory of gas from Aberystwyth University.\n\nWhite was brought up by his parents as an atheist, he later became a theistic evolutionist after studying geology. He later changed his position after studying the Bible, saying evolution is not compatible with Christianity, and became a young Earth creationist.\n\nWhite states that \"evolution is not compatible with Christianity,\" and believes the earth is about 6,000 years old and that \"people believe in evolution because they choose to do so.\" Furthermore, he says \"there is not a shred of real evidence for the evolution of life on earth.\"\n\nIn his autobiographical paper \"My spiritual pilgrimage from theistic evolution to Creation,\" White says:\n\nIn his 1985 book \"How Old is the Earth?\", White said that any evidence which shows that the Earth is older than the Bible is superficial and misleading. White says the theory of evolution is linked to immorality. In a British Broadcasting Corporation interview he said, \"If you tell people they're animals, they'll behave like animals\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29592736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29592736", "title": "Mumbai Consensus", "text": "Mumbai Consensus\n\nThe Mumbai Consensus is a term used to refer to India's particular model of economic development, with a \"people-centric\" approach to managing its economy which may be taken up by other developing nations in time. India's model of economic growth, which has relied on its domestic market more than exports, boosted domestic consumption rather than investment, pursued service-oriented industries rather than low-skilled manufacturing industries, has greatly differed from the typical Asian strategy of exporting labor-intensive, low-priced manufactured goods to the West. This model of economic development remains distinct from the Beijing Consensus with an export-led growth economy, and the Washington Consensus focused instead on encouraging the spread of democracy and free trade.\n\nThe term is not an official one but was coined by Larry Summers, an American economist and a key advisor and decision-maker for the White House in the Obama administration, speaking at the U.S.-India Business Council in mid-2010. Summers pointed out that India has a model that should be increasingly watched and could potentially be used as an example for other developing nations, suggesting that over time many nations will adopt this model:\n\nAnd perhaps – perhaps – in 2040, the discussion will be less about the Washington Consensus or the Beijing Consensus, than about the Mumbai Consensus – a third way not based on ideas of laissez-faire capitalism that have proven obsolete or ideas of authoritarian capitalism that ultimately will prove not to be enduringly successful. Instead, a Mumbai Consensus based on the idea of a democratic developmental state, driven not by a mercantilist emphasis on exports, but a people-centered emphasis on growing levels of consumptions and a widening middle class.\" Larry Summers\n\nSummers also suggested that India's model may become increasingly viable for other nations because it does not fail the middle class but instead allows this group to prosper, whilst not deviating from the traditional capitalist approach to running the economy. However, Summers acknowledges a number of challenges that would hurt the viability of a Mumbai Consensus, with a need of continued assurance of efficiency of government whilst also having continued faith in the public sector and action which means that continued economic prosperity does not just lead to the success of a select few.\n\nThe strength of India's democracy has consistently shown itself in fair and free elections, at regular intervals without being characterized by military coups or frequent martial law impositions. In the 2009 Indian Lok Sabha (lower house of Parliament) elections, 300 political parties and almost 8000 candidates ran for office. Voting occurred at 828,804 polling stations across the country. Such a diverse democracy works in a polity largely based on the rule of law. Enshrined in the Indian Constitution, political and media freedoms provide a continual framework for negotiations by stakeholders of their right to participate and achieve in society. Earlier, a rigid caste system has skewed political freedoms and achievement to the higher classes but Dalit or lower caste populist leaders like Mayawati, Chief Minister of the largest and most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, prove that such social barriers are gradually breaking down. With 1652 languages and dialects spoken, the Indian democracy is home to an incredible diversity of ethnic and linguistic backgrounds. India contains the majority of the world's Zoroastrians, Sikhs, Hindus, Jains and Bahá'ís. India is also home to the third largest Muslim population in the world after Indonesia and Pakistan. Gender issues, long a thorny criticism of India, have improved. Out of 3.5 million village legislators, 1.2 million are women. Though gender issues continue to be a persistent issue, especially in conservative rural areas, a young woman in India has the possibility of pursuing a political or entrepreneurial career, spurred on by countless micro-finance institutions, that only lend to women entrepreneurs. The ability of a country characterized by such diversity to continue to participate in a democratic framework has many policy implications for similarly diverse countries around the world.\n\nThough India, post independence, started down a socialist government route spearheaded by Nehru and similar to China's state-run model, over time, India's political framework has gradually decentralized and power has shifted to state and local legislative bodies. Further, India has gradually liberalized economically, especially since 1991 when former Finance Minister and former Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh initiated a series of economic and financial liberalizing reforms. As opposed to the quick-fire privatization campaigns seen in Argentina or the Czech Republic, India has opted for a gradual move away from large state owned enterprises, a feature that contradicts both the Washington Consensus in terms of its pace and the Beijing Consensus in terms of its focus. Labelling it ‘disinvestment’, the government's program started by simply reducing the government's holdings in such large enterprises by 20%, gradually followed by 49% and finally by large-scale transfers of control to private domestic and foreign investors. Important public sector enterprises that have been privatized have been the Indian Petrochemicals Corporation, Bharat Alumnium Company and Hindustan Zinc. The advantages of a gradual process of privatization is that it allows for the implementation of efficiency enhancing reforms that complement privatization, a feature sorely missing from similar privatization efforts in Latin America and Eastern Europe. The consensus now is in favour of establishing an institutional framework conducive to promoting competition before privatizing firms. Gradual privatization also gives governments time to adjust price controls and subsidies without which privatization is unlikely to yield the anticipated improvements in efficiency and resource allocation. Finally, the lag in time allows for the creation of regulatory agencies like the Indian TRAI (telecom), SEBI (capital markets), TAMP (ports) and CERC (power) that are positioned to prevent some of the excesses that lead to the recent global recession.\nOn the micro-level, this gradual emphasis on privatization has pushed the Indian entrepreneur on to the centre stage of India's economic growth. A sharp contrast from China's state run economic model where only 10% of credit goes to the private sector, India's economic growth in the past 20 years has been marked by high levels of private entrepreneurship. Over 80% of loans across the country go to private sector players. In 2002, the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor Report listed India as 2nd in terms of total entrepreneurshop activity, though it ranks much higher in necessity based entrepreneurship as opposed to opportunity based entrepreneurship.\n\nOne of the most unusual features of the Indian economic development model has been that India's GDP growth has been driven by domestic demand and consumption. From 1980 to 2002, India's economy grew at 6% per year and at 7.5% from 2002 to 2006. Today, domestic consumption accounts for 64% of India's GDP as opposed to 58% for Europe, 55% for Japan and 42% for China. Morgan Stanley's Stephen Roach comments that “India’s consumption-led approach to growth may be better balanced than the resource-mobilization model of China.” Booming domestic demand and consumption has allowed Indian firms to diversify from export-led growth and hedge against global fluctuations in consumer demand as well as has created a vibrant middle class in India, of almost 250 million people. One of the most potent critiques of the Washington Consensus-based economic development model is that it does not cater to the middle class and creates widening gaps between the richest and poorest in the economy. While India is still a hugely unequal country, its Gini Index (that measures income inequality) is 33 on a scale of 0-100, as compared to 41 for the US, 45 for China and 59 for Brazil. A large component of this reduced income inequality is due to India's growth being driven by domestic demand and consumption by the middle class.\nAnother extremely unusual feature of the Indian model is that it has not followed Rostow's traditional model of moving from an agrarian economy to a low-skilled manufacturing economy to high-tech manufacturing and finally, a service economy. While China's success has largely been based on moving from an agrarian economy to mass manufacturing of cheap goods that are exported to the West, India has almost skipped the middle step of creating a strong manufacturing base and directly invested in becoming a service economy. While there are strong manufacturing industries in India, a lot of them are concentrated around high-tech manufacturing. Propelled by the availability of skilled human capital, India's services sector has grown at 7.5% from 1991 to 2000 and now consists of 55% of India's GDP. Information technology and business process outsourcing are among the fastest growing sectors, having a cumulative growth rate of revenue 33.6% between 1997–98 and 2002–03 and contributing to 25% of the country's total exports in 2007–08. The growth in the IT sector is attributed to increased specialization, and an availability of a large pool of low cost, highly skilled, educated and fluent English-speaking workers, on the supply side, matched on the demand side by increased demand from foreign consumers interested in India's service exports, or those looking to outsource their operations. The share of the Indian IT industry in the country's GDP increased from 4.8% in 2005–06 to 7% in 2008. In 2009, seven Indian firms were listed among the top 15 technology outsourcing companies in the world.\n\nSince Independence, India has maintained a strong neutral stance on global geopolitical shifts, especially the Cold War, that have both hindered and assisted their economic development. Post Independence in 1947, Indian foreign policy was fundamentally dependent on Jawaharlal Nehru, whose views were largely internally focused. Nehru valued Indian territorial sovereignty and realized the need for an adequate defense of this sovereignty, but otherwise, was largely of the view that India's economic development needed to be internally focused. After having been the victim of British mercantilist trade policies for centuries, Nehru and Mahatma Gandhi both stressed the need for autarkic indigenous industrialization and independence from the Great Powers of the time. Nehru, along with Abdel Nasser in Egypt and Joseph Tito in Yugoslavia, were champions of the Non-Aligned Movement, that sought to maintain neutrality in the Cold War. . In the 1960s and 1970s, New Delhi's international position among developed and developing countries faded in the course of wars with China and Pakistan, disputes with other countries in South Asia, and India's attempt to balance Pakistan's support from the United States and China by signing the Treaty of Peace, Friendship, and Cooperation with the Soviet Union in August 1971. Although India obtained substantial Soviet military and economic aid, which helped to strengthen the nation, India's influence was undercut regionally and internationally by the perception that its friendship with the Soviet Union prevented a more forthright condemnation of the Soviet presence in Afghanistan. In the 1980s, New Delhi improved relations with the United States, other developed countries, and China while continuing close ties with the Soviet Union. Relations with its South Asian neighbors, especially Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Nepal, occupied much of the energies of the Ministry of External Affairs.\nThere are, of course, examples, where India did not seek an internationally status quoist geopolitical strategy, specifically in their pursuit and achieving nuclear weapon state status. In response to aggressive overtures from both Pakistan and earlier nuclear-armed China, the pursuit of nuclear weapons in India was as much a security concern as it was a case of pursuing international prestige. Till date, India has not signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and has been the first state to receive exemptions from the treaty in 2011 (U.S.-India Civil Nuclear Agreement) allowing for the resumption of nuclear material commerce between India and the world.\nPost the Cold War and the 1991 economic liberalizing reforms have forced India to reevaluate their non-expansionist geopolitical strategy. The end of the Cold War gutted the core meaning of non alignment and pragmatic security, economic considerations, and domestic political influences have reinforced New Delhi's reliance on the United States and other developed countries; caused New Delhi to abandon its anti-Israeli policy in the Middle East; and resulted in the courtship of the Central Asian republics and the newly industrializing economies of East and Southeast Asia. Coming to the 21st century, India's new, more powerful position in the world economy asks for India to assume a more expansionist role, especially as a potential regional hegemon. India must seek to extend its influence in the Central Asian, South East Asian and East Asian republics. However, its prior non-expansionist model of geopolitical strategy is a useful model for developing countries to follow during a time when they are still sorely under-developed.\n\nGurcharan Das comments that there are still sectors of the Indian economy, and thus the Indian development, that need a lot of work. A legacy of the Gandhian peasant farmer ideal, the Indian agricultural sector is woefully unmodernized and hindered by a vast system of regulations and protection. Das believes India needs to shift focus from peasant farming to agribusiness and encourage private capital to move from urban to rural areas. There is also a need to lift onerous distribution controls and allow large retailers to contract directly with farmers. Greater investment in irrigation infrastructure and advanced farming methods will follow from the consolidation of fragmented holdings.\nA peculiar phenomenon of the Indian growth story is that it occurs not without the government, not because of the government, but despite the government. The Indian bureaucratic system continues to remain inefficient, non-transparent and a hindrance to business. Patna, the capital state of Bihar, is a prime example of where easing regulatory reform and reforming the bureaucratic structure has contributed to economic growth. Largely a result of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's work, Patna is now the second-easiest city in India to start a business with 11 stages in the process, 8 of which are national and common across states. Patna is also the leader in best practices in India in the cost to start a business (38.5% of income per capita), the cost to deal with business-related construction permits (204% of income per capita) and the cost to enforce contracts (16.9% of the claim value). However, these numbers do not hold up too well when compared to global averages. Patna ranks 137th in the world in terms of number of procedures, 124th in terms of costs to start business and 31st in terms of costs to enforce contracts.\nDas points to electrical utility coverage and reliability, an extremely complicated tax regime that creates incentives for tax evasion, and a woefully inadequate public education system as some of the other areas that require dire attention and much greater investment from the Indian government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26447715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26447715", "title": "Network of Asian River Basin Organizations", "text": "Network of Asian River Basin Organizations\n\nThe Network of Asian River Basin Organizations (NARBO), established in 2003 and active since February 2004, works to bring Integrated Water Resources Management in river basins throughout the Asia-Pacific region. When it was established, 43 institutions signed up for NARBO, and it has since grown to include 65 institutions, of which 22 are River Basin Organizations, 17 Government Organizations, 17 Regional Knowledge Partners, 17 Inter Regional Knowledge Partners and 8 Development Cooperation Agencies. The organization has its headquarters in Japan.\n\nThe first chairperson is Dr. M. Basuki Hadimuljono from the Ministry of Public Works, Indonesia and Vice chairperson is Dr. M.U.A. Tennakoon from Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka. The secretariats are composed by the Japan Water Agency (JWA), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Asian Development Bank Institute (ADBI).\n\n"}
{"id": "8195494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8195494", "title": "OPEC Reference Basket", "text": "OPEC Reference Basket\n\nThe OPEC Reference Basket (ORB), also referred to as the OPEC Basket, is a weighted average of prices for petroleum blends produced by OPEC members. It is used as an important benchmark for crude oil prices. OPEC has often attempted to keep the price of the OPEC Basket between upper and lower limits, by increasing and decreasing production. This makes the measure important for market analysts. The OPEC Basket, including a mix of light and heavy crude oil products, is heavier than both Brent crude oil, and West Texas Intermediate crude oil.\n\nSince January 1, 2017, the OPEC reference basket consists of a weighted average of the following crudes:\n\n\nPrior to June 16, 2005, the OPEC Basket did not include petroleum blends from all OPEC members. The earlier basket consisted of seven crudes:\n"}
{"id": "44379693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379693", "title": "Palestinian Unity Government of June 2014", "text": "Palestinian Unity Government of June 2014\n\nThe Palestinian Unity Government of June 2014 was a national unity government of the Palestinian National Authority under Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas formed on 2 June 2014 following the Fatah-Hamas Reconciliation Agreement that had been signed on 23 April 2014. The ministers were nominally independent, but overwhelmingly seen as loyal to President Abbas and his Fatah movement or to smaller leftist factions, none of whom were believed to have close ties to Hamas. However, the Unity Government was not approved by the Legislative Council, leading to its legitimacy being questioned. The Unity Government dissolved on 17 June 2015 after President Abbas said it was unable to operate in the Gaza Strip.\n\nBefore the agreement, there were two separate governments, one ruled by Fatah in the West Bank and the other by Hamas in the Gaza Strip. Although this unity government formally was a government representing both Fatah and Hamas, the two parties remained hostile to each other as numerous reconciliation attempts have failed so far.\n\nThe international community agreed to work with the new government. While the US reaction was reserved, the Israeli Government condemned the unity government, stressing that Hamas is a terrorist organisation which has vowed to destroy the state of Israel.\n\nIn July and December 2015, Abbas reshuffled the cabinet and appointed new ministers without consulting Hamas, which was denounced by Hamas. Although Hamas did not recognize the new ministers and rejected the changes, the reshuffling was called \"technical and not political\", and the new cabinet was presented as a slightly changed existing government, still called \"consensus government\". In October 2016, Hamas reshuffled its Vice-Ministers of the unity government, without Abbas's consent, thereby creating a de facto new Hamas government in the Gaza Strip.\n\nPursuant to the Oslo Accords, the authority of the PA Government is limited to some civil rights of the Palestinians in the West Bank Areas A and B and in the Gaza Strip, and to internal security in Area A and in Gaza. Hamas seized Gaza from Abbas's control in 2007 and has been the \"de facto\" government in Gaza since.\n\nOn 3 May 2011, Fatah and Hamas signed the 2011 Cairo agreement, which promised the formation of a consensus government with the aim to prepare Presidential, Legislative and Palestinian National Council elections to be held in May 2012. Other tasks would be the formation of a \"Higher Security Committee\", the reconstruction operations in the Gaza Strip (after the 2008/2009 Operation Cast Lead) and the efforts to end the siege and blockade imposed on Gaza, end the split of the governments in West Bank and Gaza, and reactivate the Palestinian Legislative Council.\n\nIn the Fatah–Hamas Doha Agreement of 7 February 2012, both parties again agreed to form an interim national consensus government composed of independent technocrats, to prepare for upcoming elections. It would be led by President Mahmoud Abbas. After the implementation of the agreement had been stalled, allegedly because Hamas leaders had refused to allow the registration of new voters in Gaza, a new agreement was signed in May 2012. Eventually, a unity government did not materialize and Abbas established a new PA Government in the West Bank on 6 June 2013, headed by Rami Hamdallah.\n\nOn 23 April 2014, Fatah and Hamas concluded the 2014 Fatah–Hamas Gaza Agreement to form a national unity government within five weeks, to be followed by presidential and parliamentary elections to be held on the same day by December.\n\nThe Unity Government was formed on 2 June 2014 following the agreement between Fatah and Hamas. After the inauguration ceremony, President Mahmoud Abbas said in a televised speech that was broadcast on Palestine TV, that the unity government would serve as an interim government with its main mission to prepare for presidential and parliamentary elections. Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah considered the formation of this government as the first step toward ending the division, uniting the Palestinian homeland and institutions and bringing about national reconciliation. He said that the government's tasks included addressing division, reuniting state institutions, commencing Gaza reconstruction and paving the way for facilitating presidential and parliamentary elections.\n\nThe new government was composed of technocrat members. The ministers were nominally independent, but overwhelmingly seen as loyal to President Abbas and his Fatah movement or to smaller leftist factions. None was believed to be affiliated with Hamas.\n\nIn March 2016, senior Hamas official Mahmoud Al-Zahar said that Hamas had agreed with a government without Hamas as a coexistence between different programmes rather than \"a mix of interests\". He said the government's task was to improve electricity and rebuild the Gaza Strip, improve the situation of the Palestinians in Gaza and prepare for elections was the condition for not being part of any government.\n\nLike the former emergency governments after June 2007, which were installed by presidential decree, this unity government was in fact illegal, as it was not approved by the Legislative Council. Without the cooperation of all parties, however, it was not possible to get the necessary quorum to put a vote.\n\nThe agreement that led to the formation of the consensus government also calls for reforming the PLO, that ostensibly represents all Palestinians inside and outside the occupied territories. It includes holding elections for the Palestine National Council, the PLO's long-neglected parliament-in-exile, and expanding PLO membership to include Hamas and other political parties.\n\nHours before the swearing-in ceremony on 2 June, Hamas threatened not to recognize the unity government if it did not include a Minister for Prisoner Affairs. Abbas wanted to dissolve the Ministry in favour of forming a prisoner affair administration under control of the PLO. In the end, the Prisoners' Affairs Ministry was turned into a commission that would be temporarily run by Shawki al-Issa, the Minister of Agriculture and Social Affairs, upon a decision by the PLO.\n\nIn September 2014, the PA declared that the Prisoners Affairs Ministry was replaced with the new established \"Higher National Commission for Prisoners and Detainees Affairs\", headed by former PA Prisoners Affairs Minister Issa Qaraqe. The Commission came under the responsibility of the PLO. The move was said to have been taken at the request of Israel and Western donor countries, who objected the financial aid the former Ministry provided to Palestinian prisoners of Israel.\n\nAfter the change, media continued referring to Qaraqe as the \"Palestinian minister for prisoner affairs\", while Ma'an News Agency in July 2015 used the title \"Minister of Prisoners' Affairs\" and in 2016 \"Head of the Palestinian Committee for Prisoners' Affairs\".\n\nIn December 2015, Ma'an wrote that the PA had cut the salaries of former Palestinian prisoners. In a response, the Palestinian Prisoners' Society (PPS) said that some of them were no longer paid due to their political affiliations. Others were requested to prove that they actually became sick while in prison. the PPS said they may not recognize the \"legitimacy\" of the Palestinian Authority.\n\nUpon the formation of the government in 2014, former long-serving deputy Minister for Prisoners' Affairs Ziad Abu Ein became in charge of the portfolio for the struggle against the Israeli West Bank barrier and the settlements, a role equivalent to the rank of a minister in the Palestinian Authority government. Abu Ein died on 10 December 2014, during protest in the West Bank \"after inhaling tear gas and being shoved and struck in the chest by a member of the Israeli security forces\".\n\nThe European Union, the United Nations, the United States, China, India, Russia and Turkey all agreed to work with the new government. The US-based Palestine Center wrote that despite the fact that Hamas was explicitly not involved in the government, US mainstream coverage of the new government focused on Hamas' involvement, echoing Israeli talking points about the government by overstating the alleged role Hamas played in it, in an effort to label it a \"terrorist\" government.\n\nUS Secretary of State John Kerry said that Washington would work with the new Palestinian government while continuing to watch it closely. He expressed \"concern about Hamas' role in any such government\". The Israeli Government condemned the unity government. It immediately announced a series of punitive measures. They included the withholding of some taxes it collects on the PA's behalf, and freezing negotiations with the Palestinians. It refused to allow the passage of four prospective ministers from the Gaza Strip to the occupied West Bank, while it called on the international community to shun the new Palestinian government. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ended peace talks with Abbas.\n\nDespite the formation of the \"unity government\", the PA security forces continued arresting Hamas supporters in the West Bank. Hamas in return arrested a senior Fatah official in the Gaza Strip.\n\nAlthough initially the primary task of the national consensus government was to prepare for legislative and presidential elections to be held after six months, its focus soon shifted to more urgent issues.\n\nOn 12 June 2014, three Israeli teenager settlers were kidnapped and presumed murdered. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Hamas of the kidnapping. On 14 June 2014, the Israeli military started major raids on Palestinian areas throughout the West Bank, which continued for some weeks, rounding up hundreds of Palestinian operatives. Militants in the Gaza Strip responded with increased rocket fire at Israel. On 8 July, Israel launched a military operation against Gaza which resulted in over 2,100 Palestinian deaths and wide-scale destruction of civilian property and infrastructure. The government now focused on rebuilding the war-shattered and impoverished enclave.\n\nThe Palestinian Unity Government convened on 9 October 2014 for the first time since 2007 in Gaza, to discuss the reconstruction of the Gaza Strip following the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. As Hamas was discontented with the government over the failure of the reconstruction process in Gaza, the ongoing closure of the crossings and the failure to settle the issue of the payment of employee salaries, it threatened with a vote of no confidence in Parliament in November 2014.\n\nOn 30 November 2014, Hamas declared that the unity government had ended after the expiration of the six-month period stipulated in the Agreement. Abbas had accused Israel and Hamas of secretly negotiating, and said earlier that Hamas is completely responsible for Gaza, and not the joint Fatah-Hamas unity government. Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri criticized the PA for the arrest of hundreds of Hamas operatives and detaining 80 Palestinians in the West Bank for political affiliation. Hamas denounced \"the escalating violations and criminal acts by the PA security services against supporters of Hamas and the Palestinian resistance\". Fatah denied that the unity government mandate had ended. Faisal Abu Shahla said that the reconciliation agreement was still in force, but additional reconciliation talks were suspended until Hamas responded to Fatah regarding a series of bomb attacks against Fatah officials' property in Gaza and the subsequent cancellation of a memorial service for deceased Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.\n\nOn 17 June 2015, the Unity Government resigned after President Abbas said it was unable to operate in the Gaza Strip. However, Hamas rejected the dissolution of the government without holding discussions with all parties as a unilateral act. Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah was ordered him to form a new government, and various Palestinian factions, including Hamas, are to be consulted before a new government is formed. In response to the July 2015 reshuffle, Hamas said it was not consulted and opposed the process as unilateral, arguing that any unity government should be a non-political entity, carrying out tasks agreed upon by all factions. Hamas said it will retain its control on the Gaza Strip and split from the incoming government if it was not actively included in the process, but preferred a consensus government to govern both the Gaza Strip and West Bank. Hamas also denounced the December 2015 reshuffle as a unilateral act and did not recognise the new ministers.\n\nIn the meantime, there had been indirect talks between Hamas and Israel on ways to firm up an informal ceasefire agreement concluded after the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, which some commentators have argued prompted Abbas to move to dissolve the unity government.\n\nJune 2014 to June 2015 \n\nOn 1 July 2015, President Abbas announced a cabinet reshuffle, with five new ministers appointed. The new ministers were sworn in on 31 July.\n\n\nHamas was not consulted about the move and opposed the unilateral forming process, arguing that any unity government should be a non-political entity, carrying out tasks agreed upon by all factions. Hamas said it will retain its control on the Gaza Strip and split from the coming government if it was not actively included in the process, but preferred a consensus government to govern both the Gaza Strip and West Bank.\n\nAlthough Hamas did not recognize the new ministers and rejected the changes, the reshuffling was called \"technical and not political\", and the new cabinet was described as a slightly changed existing government, still called \"consensus government\".\n\nOn 14 December 2015, President Abbas announced a minor cabinet reshuffle, with three ministers being replaced.\n\n\nThe new cabinet members were more loyal to Abbas. Palestinian officials accused the President of abusing his powers to settle scores with political rivals in the PLO and his own Fatah faction. Earlier, Abbas had fired Yasser Abed Rabbo as PLO secretary-general on 30 June 2015 and dismissed as head of the Darwish Foundation in December. Abbas also dismissed by presidential decree 25 members of the board of directors of a foundation created to preserve the cultural, literal and intellectual heritage of Mahmoud Darwish and declared the \"Union of Public Employees\" illegal in 2014.\n\nHamas denounced the unilateral step and did not recognise the new ministers. Also former Minister of State and Fatah official Hasan Asfour criticized the decrees, saying that they amounted to a \"hijacking of Palestinian legitimacy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37619456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37619456", "title": "Pashto Academy", "text": "Pashto Academy\n\nPashto Academy () is a language regulatory institution based at the University of Peshawar in Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan responsible for the standardisation, advancement, and promotion of Pashto language. It was established in 1955 with the support of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, with Maulana Abdul Qadir serving as its first director. It is a research and publication institution with a focus on Pashto linguistic development and research. Areas studied and researched by the academy include Pashtun culture, literature, history, and the arts.\n\nSince its inception, the Pashto Academy has produced over 500 publications in Pashto, which include classical texts, modern literature, critical literature, scientific works, translations, Pashto lexicon, research publications, booklets, and journals. The academy maintains a library which is host to a large collection of printed Pashto books, rare texts and manuscripts, media, tapes, and photographs of prominent scholars and poets. The academy also maintains a museum and art gallery, inaugurated in 2009, depicting Pashtun cultural heritage. A research cell has been set up at the academy by the Government of Pakistan which conducts studies on the life and works of Khushal Khan Khattak, regarded as one of the most notable classical Pashtun poets.\n\nPast and present directors of the Pashto Academy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31835841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31835841", "title": "Political economy of climate change", "text": "Political economy of climate change\n\nPolitical economy of climate change is an approach that applies the political economy thinking of collective or political processes to study the critical issues surrounding the decision-making on climate change.\n\nAs the issue of climate change reaching the top of international agenda, the complexity of the environmental problems in combination with various other social political challenges have put great pressures on the scholars to explore a better understanding of the multiple actors and influencing factors that affect the climate change negotiation and to seek more effective solutions to tackle climate change. Analyzing these issues from a political economy perspective helps to explain the complex interactions between different stakeholders in respond to climate change impacts and provides broader opportunities to achieve better implementation of climate change policies.\n\nClimate Change is first and foremost a political issue now that it has become a widely believed fact. Before tackling the issue, it is important to determine how drastic the effects can be in order to address it in an appropriate manner. When dealing with climate change, the inhabitants of countries must see themselves as “global citizens” rather than separate entities if any real long-term progress is to be made. In accordance with a global perspective, countries balance legislation regarding climate change in a way that benefits developing nations while refraining from discouraging developed nations from contributing to the effort. \n\nClimate change and global warming have become one of the most pressing environmental concerns and the greatest global challenges in society today, despite the fact that a consensus has never been reached in the debates over its causes and consequences. As this issue continues to dominate the international agenda, researchers from different academic sectors have for long been devoting great efforts to explore effective solutions to climate change, with technologists and planners devising ways of mitigating and adapting to climate change; economists estimating the cost of climate change and the cost of tackling it; development experts exploring the impact of climate change on social services and public goods. However, Cammack (2007) points out two problems with many of the above discussions, namely the disconnection between the proposed solutions to climate change from different disciplines; and the devoid of politics in addressing climate change at the local level. Further, the issue of climate change is facing various other challenges, such as the problem of elite-resource capture, the resource constraints in developing countries and the conflicts that frequently result from such constraints, which have often been less concerned and stressed in suggested solutions. In recognition of these problems, it is advocated that “understanding the political economy of climate change is vital to tackling it”.\n\nMeanwhile, the unequal distribution of the impacts of climate change and the resulting inequity and unfairness on the poor who contribute least to the problem have linked the issue of climate change with development study, which has given rise to various programmes and policies that aim at addressing climate change and promoting development. Although great efforts have been made on international negotiations concerning the issue of climate change, it is argued that much of the theory, debate, evidence-gathering and implementation linking climate change and development assume a largely apolitical and linear policy process. In this context, Tanner and Allouche (2011) suggest that climate change initiatives must explicitly recognise the political economy of their inputs, processes and outcomes so as to find a balance between effectiveness, efficiency and equity.\n\nIn its earliest manifestations, the term “political economy” was basically a synonym of economics, while it is now a rather elusive term that typically refers to the study of the collective or political processes through which public economic decisions are made. In the climate change domain, Tanner and Allouche (2011) define the political economy as “the processes by which ideas, power and resources are conceptualised, negotiated and implemented by different groups at different scales”. While there have emerged a substantial literature on the political economy of environmental policy, which explains the “political failure” of the environmental programmes to efficiently and effectively protect the environment, systematic analysis on the specific issue of climate change using the political economy framework is relatively limited.\n\nThe urgent need to consider and understand the political economy of climate change is based on the specific characteristics of the problem.\n\nThe key issues include:\n\nThe role of political economy in understanding and tackling climate change is also founded upon the key issues surrounding the domestic socio-political constraints:\n\n\nBrandt and Svendsen (2003) introduce a political economy framework that based on the political support function model by Hillman (1982) into the analysis of the choice of instruments to control climate change in the European Union policy to implement its Kyoto Protocol target level. In this political economy framework, the climate change policy is determined by the relative strength of stakeholder groups. By examining the different objective of different interest groups, namely industry groups, consumer groups and environmental groups, the authors explain the complex interaction between the choices of instrument for the EU climate change policy, specifically the shift from the green taxation to a grandfathered permit system.\n\nA report by the Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) (2011) takes a political economy approach to explain why some countries adopt climate change policies while others do not, specifically among the countries in the transition region. This work analyzes the different political economy aspects of the characteristics of climate change policies so as to understand the likely factors driving climate change mitigation outcomes in many transition countries. The main conclusions are listed below:\n\nTanner and Allouche (2011) propose a new conceptual and methodological framework for analysing the political economy of climate change in their latest work, which focuses on the climate change policy processes and outcomes in terms of ideas, power and resources. The new political economy approach is expected to go beyond the dominant political economy tools formulated by international development agencies to analyse climate change initiatives that have ignored the way that ideas and ideologies determine the policy outcomes (see table). The authors assume that each of the three lenses, namely ideas, power and resources, tends to be predominant at one stage of the policy process of the political economy of climate change, with “ideas and ideologies predominant in the conceptualisation phase, power in the negotiation phase and resource, institutional capacity and governance in the implementation phase”. It is argued that These elements are critical in the formulation of international climate change initiatives and their translation to national and sub-national policy context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27178409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27178409", "title": "Popular Arab and Islamic Congress", "text": "Popular Arab and Islamic Congress\n\nCalled together in the Sudan by Hassan al-Turabi, the 1991 Popular Arab and Islamic Congress Conference sought to unify Mujahideen and other Islamic elements in the wake of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan and the Iraqi defeat in the Gulf War. It sought to provide an alternative to the Saudi-dominated Organization of the Islamic Conference, although it did not have its financial means.\n\nHeld from April 25–28, it brought together disparate sections of the Muslim world in an attempt at Pan-Arabism and Pan-Islamic union. It was estimated to have brought together 500 people, from 45 nations. The congress met again in December 1993 and had a third meeting in March–April 1995.\n\nIt has been suggested that al-Turabi hoped to \"crystallize discontent in the Arab world by bringing together under a single banner, hardline Islamic militants and nationalists\". Critics suggested the congress also had domestic purposes for al-Turabi and his regime, particularly the \"strengthening\" of \"his hold\" on Sudan by posing as a leader of \"the progressive Muslim masses\", and the regime's \"masking\" its \"narrow origins\" and \"lack of mass support\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50344295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50344295", "title": "Qatar National Bank data leak", "text": "Qatar National Bank data leak\n\nA leak of data from Qatar National Bank was made public in April 2016. The leaked files were published on Cryptome.\n\nThe files contained the personal data of the bank's clients as well as credit card information and passwords. The leak was divided into folders for individual groups of clients; these included Qatar's Al Thani family, state security officials, and staff of Al Jazeera, the broadcaster owned by the Qatari state.\n"}
{"id": "48035153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48035153", "title": "RATE project", "text": "RATE project\n\nThe RATE project (Radioisotopes and the Age of The Earth) was a research project conducted by the Creation Research Society and the Institute for Creation Research between 1997 and 2005 to assess the validity of radiometric dating and other dating techniques in the light of the doctrine of a recent creation. It was funded by $250,000 from the Institute for Creation Research and over $1 million in donations. The RATE team was chaired by Larry Vardiman (meteorology) and included Steven A. Austin (soft rock geology), John Baumgardner (geophysics), Steven W. Boyd (Hebrew), Eugene F. Chaffin (physics), Donald B. DeYoung (physics), Russell Humphreys (physics) and Andrew Snelling (hard rock geology).\n\nThe project's findings were published in 2005, and while they acknowledged evidence for over 500 million years of radiometric decay at today's rates, they also claimed to have discovered other evidences that pointed to a young earth. They therefore hypothesised that nuclear decay rates were accelerated by a factor of approximately one billion on the first two days of the Creation week and during the Flood.\n\nNon-affiliated experts who have scrutinised the claims have unanimously rejected them as flawed.\n\nThe RATE team acknowledged evidence for over 500 million years' worth of radioactive decay in the earth's history at today's rates. However, they claimed that other evidence indicated that the earth is much younger. The evidences cited were:\n\n\nBased on these findings, the authors postulated that nuclear decay rates were accelerated by a factor of approximately 500 million during the Creation week and at the time of the Flood. Short-lived isotopes such as C were not affected, while long-lived isotopes such as K were affected by a factor of a billion or more. Stable isotopes were apparently not affected.\n\nThey identified two unresolved problems with this theory. One was excessive heat generation, which would have been sufficient to raise the temperature of the earth's surface to 22,000 °C, sufficient to evaporate the earth unless some extraordinary cooling mechanism were applied. They acknowledged that neither conduction, nor convection, nor radiation could remove this heat quickly enough, and that therefore a new, esoteric solution would have to be found. They further acknowledged that this solution would also have to have cooled some material more than others to prevent the oceans from freezing over.\n\nThe other problem is excessive radiation generation, which would have killed Noah and his passengers on the Ark by the radiation generated from ratioisotopes such as K in their own bodies. They speculated that the K measured in biological materials today may have been a result of the Genesis Flood itself, although they did not explain how this could have come about.\n\nDespite their admissions of serious problems, they expressed confidence that the problems would be resolved.\n\nRandy Isaac of the American Scientific Affiliation noted that the leap from the findings to the conclusion was never made clear and asserted that it was dishonest to claim that the study provided evidence of a young earth given that it had noted insurmountable scientific problems:\n\nThe project has also been criticized by geologist Kevin Henke for, among other things, using faulty standard deviations, misidentifying rock samples, and correcting \"typographical errors\" in other researchers' data without providing any evidence that such corrections were warranted. The project's claim regarding helium diffusion in zircon was refuted by Gary Loechelt and Kevin Henke, who noted that, among other problems, the RATE team had used an unrealistic diffusion model, had misidentified the rock samples, had made incorrect assumptions about their thermal history, and had used incorrect standard deviations.\n\n"}
{"id": "13368513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13368513", "title": "Saffron Revolution", "text": "Saffron Revolution\n\nSaffron Revolution is a term used to describe a series of economic and political protests and demonstrations that took place during August, September and October 2007 in Myanmar. The protests were triggered by the decision of the national military government to remove subsidies on the sales prices of fuel. The national government is the only supplier of fuels and the removal of the price subsidy immediately caused diesel and petrol prices to increase by 66%--100% and the price of compressed natural gas for buses to increase 500% in less than a week.\n\nThe various protests were led by students, political activists, including women, and Buddhist monks and took the form of a campaign of nonviolent resistance, sometimes also called civil resistance.\n\nIn response to the protests dozens of protesters were arrested or detained. Starting in September 2007 the protests were led by thousands of Buddhist monks, and those protests were allowed to proceed until a renewed government crackdown in late September 2007. Some news reports referred to the protests as the Saffron Revolution, or ().\n\nSome of the prominent or symbolic individuals who figured in these events included\n\nThe exact number of casualties is not known, but estimates range from 13–31 deaths resulting from the protests and reprisals by the government. Several hundred people were arrested or detained, many (but not all) of whom were released.\n\nSenior General Than Shwe remained in power until he retired in 2011 at age 78.\n\nThe phrase \"Saffron Revolution\" connects the protests against Myanmar's military dictatorship to the saffron-coloured robes widely associated with Buddhist monks, who were at the forefront of the demonstrations. However, this nomenclature is misleading as the majority of monks in Burma wear maroon (reddish-brown) robes, not saffron (golden-yellow) robes (see saffron). While similar terms for protests (see colour revolution) had been used elsewhere to describe the process of gradual or peaceful revolution in other nations, this seems to be the first time it has been associated with a particular protest as it is unfolding, and the international press seized upon the term in reporting on the Burmese protests. However, the idea that the monkhood is connected to specifically Burmese ideas about revolution has been argued by British academic Gustaaf Houtman, partly in critique of an alternative view held by a political scientist, that Gen. Ne Win's 1962 revolution was the only successful revolution in Burma. Burmese concepts of \"revolution,\" however, have a much longer history and are also employed in many but not all monastic ordinations.\n\nThe military government of Burma was called the State Peace and Development Council or \"SPDC\" from 1988 to 2011.\n\nPrior to the 2007 summer protests, there had been growing unease in the population regarding the economic distress of the country which has stagnant economic growth and is ranked among the 20 poorest countries in the world according to the United Nations. Many, including the United Nations have blamed the economic problems on the leadership of the military junta and the proportion of national income spent on the armed forces. In late 2006, the cost of basic commodities began rising sharply in Burma with rice, eggs, and cooking oil increasing by 30–40%. According to the UN, one in three children is chronically malnourished, government spending on health and education is among the lowest anywhere in the world, and the average income is below $300 a year. Living a privileged, parallel existence, Burma's military forces appear virtually a \"state within a state\", free from the economic insecurity that afflicts the rest of the country. Many of the high ranking army generals have become immensely rich; as witnessed in the video of the wedding of senior general Than Shwe's daughter, who is shown wearing diamonds worth many millions of dollars.\n\nAccording to the BBC, on 22 February 2007, a small group of individuals protested the current state of consumer prices in the country. While the protest was small and careful not to be seen as directed at the military junta, officials jailed nine of the protesters. It was the first street protest seen in Rangoon for at least a decade. According to Jeff Kingston, in his article \"Burma's Despair\" stated that \"Despair and fear are immobilizing a people who yearn for a better life and have fruitlessly risked much for a better government.\" This shows how afraid the Burmese were to take action in 2007. Not only that but Kingston also states that \"The earlier brutal crackdown of 1988-when at least three thousand protesters were killed and thousands more imprisoned and tortured-has burned a place in the collective memory.\"\n\nThe military junta detained eight people on Sunday, 22 April 2007, who took part in a rare demonstration in a Yangon suburb amid a growing military crackdown on protesters. A group of about ten protesters carrying placards and chanting slogans staged the protest Sunday morning in Yangon's Thingangyun township, calling for lower prices and improved health, education and better utility services. The protest ended peacefully after about 70 minutes, but plainclothes police took away eight demonstrators as some 100 onlookers watched. The protesters carried placards with slogans such as \"Down with consumer prices\". Some of those detained were the same protesters who took part in a downtown Yangon protest on 22 February 2007. That protest was one of the first such demonstrations in recent years to challenge the junta's economic mismanagement rather than its legal right to rule. The protesters detained in the February rally had said they were released after signing an acknowledgment of police orders that they should not hold any future public demonstrations without first obtaining official permission.\n\nThe military government stated its intention to crack down on these human rights activists, according to a 23 April 2007, report in the country's official press. The announcement, which comprised a full page of the official newspaper, followed calls by human rights advocacy groups, including London-based Amnesty International, for authorities to investigate recent violent attacks on rights activists in the country.\n\nTwo members of Human Rights Defenders and Promoters, Maung Maung Lay, 37, and Myint Naing, 40, were hospitalised with head injuries following attacks by more than 50 people while the two were working in Hinthada township, Irrawaddy Division in mid-April. On Sunday, 22 April 2007, eight people were arrested by plainclothes police, members of the pro-junta Union Solidarity and Development Association, and the Pyithu Swan Arr Shin (a paramilitary group) while demonstrating peacefully in a Yangon suburb. The eight protesters were calling for lower commodity prices, better health care and improved utility services. Htin Kyaw, 44, one of the eight who also took part in an earlier demonstration in late February in downtown Yangon, was beaten by a mob, according to sources at the scene of the protest.\n\nReports from opposition activists emerged saying that authorities have directed the police and other government proxy groups to deal harshly with any sign of unrest in Yangon. \"This proves that there is no rule of law [in Burma],\" the 88 Generation Students group said in a statement. [Mon 23 April 2007] \"We seriously urge the authorities to prevent violence in the future and to guarantee the safety of every citizen.\"\n\nOn 15 August 2007 the government removed subsidies on fuel causing a rapid and unannounced increase in prices. The government, which has a monopoly on fuel sales, raised prices from about $1.40 to $2.80 a gallon, and boosted the price of natural gas by about 500%. This increase in fuel prices led to an increase in food prices. Soon afterwards, protesters took to the streets to protest the current conditions.\n\nWhile the International Monetary Fund and World Bank had been recommending the lifting of subsidies for some time to allow for a free market to determine fuel prices, these organisations did not recommend removing all of the subsidies unannounced. The fuel is sold by Myanma Oil and Gas Enterprise, a state-owned fuel company.\n\nIn response to the increase in fuel prices, citizens protested in demonstrations beginning on 19 August. In response to the protests, the government began arresting and beating demonstrators. The government arrested 13 prominent Burmese dissidents including Min Ko Naing, Ko Ko Gyi, Min Zeya, Ko Jimmy, Pyone Cho, Arnt Bwe Kyaw and Ko Mya Aye. The government newspaper New Light of Myanmar reported that these individual's actions caused civil unrest that \"was aimed at undermining peace and security of the State and disrupting the ongoing National Convention.\" The United States condemned the arrest of these dissidents on 22 August with the State Department's acting spokesman stating \"The United States calls for the immediate release of these activists and for an end of the regime's blatant attempt to intimidate and silence those who are engaged in peaceful promotion of democracy and human rights in Burma...We call on the regime to engage in a meaningful dialogue with the leaders of Burma's democracy movement and ethnic minority groups and to make tangible steps toward a transition to civilian democratic rule.\"\n\nOn 21–22 August 2007, participants of the protests on 19 August were detained by local authorities. Their houses were searched without a warrant. These demonstrators could have been charged with up to one year in prison; under the 5/96 Law, that is used to condemn those who disrupt the stability of the state.\n\nOn 5 September 2007, Burmese troops forcibly broke up a peaceful demonstration in Pakokku and injured three monks. It was further reported that one monk was killed. This report however was never confirmed but quoted as a reason for the monks' protests starting on September 18. Document 6.1 The next day, younger monks in Pakokku briefly took several government officials hostage in retaliation. They demanded an apology by the deadline of 17 September but the military refused to apologise. This sparked protests involving increasing numbers of monks in conjunction with the withdrawal of religious services for the military. Their role in the protests was significant due to the reverence paid to them by the civilian population and the military. After these events, protests began spreading across Myanmar, including Yangon (also known as Rangoon), Sittwe, Pakokku and Mandalay.\n\nOn 22 September around two thousand monks marched through Yangon and ten thousand through Mandalay, with other demonstrations in five townships across Myanmar. Those marching through the capital chanted the \"Myitta Thote\" (the Buddha's words on loving kindness) marching through a barricade on the street in front of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi. Although still under house arrest, Suu Kyi made a brief public appearance at the gate of her residence to accept the blessings of the Buddhist monks.\nIn Mandalay, estimated to have 200 monasteries, monks were said to have told people not to join the protests, which ended peacefully.\n\nAs of 22 September 2007, the Buddhist monks were reported to have withdrawn spiritual services from all military personnel in a symbolic move that was seen as very powerful in such a deeply religious country as Burma. The military rulers seemed at a loss as to how to deal with the demonstrations by the monks as using violence against monks would incense and enrage the people of Burma even further, almost certainly prompting massive civil unrest and perhaps violence. However, the longer the junta allowed the protests to continue, the weaker the regime could look. The danger is that eventually the military government will be forced to act rashly and doing so will provoke the citizenry even more. Some international news agencies are referring to the uprising as a 'Saffron Revolution'.\n\nOn 23 September, 150 nuns joined the protests in Yangon. On that day, some 15,000 Buddhist monks and laymen marched through the streets of Yangon in the sixth day of escalating peaceful protests against the Burmese military regime. The Alliance of All Burmese Buddhist Monks vowed to continue the protests until the Burmese military junta is deposed.\n\nOn 24 September eyewitnesses reported between 30,000 and 100,000 people demonstrating in Yangon, making the event the largest Burmese anti-government protest in twenty years. The BBC reported that two locally well-known actors, comedian Zargana and film star Kyaw Thu, went to Yangon's golden Shwedagon Pagoda early on Monday to offer food and water to the monks before they started their march. The marches occurred simultaneously in at least 25 cities across Myanmar, with columns of monks stretching up to . At the end of the march approximately 1,000 monks arrived to greet Aung San Suu Kyi's home but were denied access by police. They chanted prayers before peacefully moving off. Later that day, the military junta's Minister for Religion, Brigadier General Thura Myint Maung, warned the Buddhist monks leading the protests not to go beyond their \"rules and regulations\".\n\nMeanwhile, President George W. Bush introduced unilateral sanctions against the Burmese leaders during his speech to the UN General Assembly and encouraged other countries to follow its lead. The Dalai Lama also gave his blessing to the monks in their bid for greater freedom and democracy.\n\nOn 25 September the junta threatened demonstrators with military force and placed army trucks at Shwedagon Pagoda, the assembly point for monks leading the protests. Witnesses said 5,000 monks and laypeople marched into the Shwedagon. Civilians were forming a human shield around the monks; Reuters quotes one eyewitness: \"They are marching down the streets, with the monks in the middle and ordinary people either side – they are shielding them, forming a human chain.\". Vehicles mounted with loudspeakers toured central Yangon, blaring warnings of military action. \"People are not to follow, encourage or take part in these marches. Action will be taken against those who violate this order,\" the broadcasts said, invoking a law allowing the use of military force to break up illegal protests. Reuters reported that the detained democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to the Insein Prison on Sunday, a day after she appeared in front of her house to greet marching monks.\n\nEffective 26 September Myanmar's junta imposed dusk-till-dawn curfews on the country's two largest cities of Yangon and Mandalay. Additionally, gatherings of more than five people were prohibited. Meanwhile, truckloads of armed soldiers and riot police were sent into Yangon.\n\nOn 26 September, pro-democracy figure Win Naing was arrested at his home in Yangon around 2:30 a.m. after being seen providing food and water to the protesting monks but was released from jail after one night, according to an anonymous friend and Western diplomat. He had been arrested on 8 March for holding a press conference with Burmese demonstrators against the national economic hardships. Prominent Burmese comedian Zargana was also arrested overnight. Troops barricaded Shwedagon Pagoda and attacked a group of 700 protesters with batons and tear gas. The police, beating their shields with batons, chased some of the monks and some 200 supporters, while others tried to remain in place near the eastern gate of the pagoda complex. Troops then sealed off the area around the pagoda, attempting to prevent the monks from making further protests. This failed to stop the marches, with up to 5,000 monks progressing through Yangon, some wearing masks in anticipation of tear gas being used.\n\nLater in the day there were reports of at least three Buddhist monks and one woman confirmed killed in the firing by security forces in Yangon when thousands of people led by Buddhist monks continued their protest against the military junta. A doctor in Yangon's general hospital confirmed that three injured monks had been admitted to the hospital after they were beaten up severely by the riot police at Shwedagon pagoda. The Swedish National Radio correspondent in Yangon reported that more than 300 people, many of whom were monks, were detained. He also reported a new sentiment in Yangon: \"People come up to me quite spontaneously and voice their opinion in a way they never did before.\" ... \"People feel great admiration for the brave monks\". The Burma Campaign UK said its sources had reported the junta ordering large numbers of maroon monastic robes and telling soldiers to shave their heads, possibly to infiltrate the monks.\n\nOn 27 September, the junta security forces began raiding monasteries across the country to quell the protests, arresting at least 200 monks in Yangon and 500 more in the northeast. Simultaneously, the army raided four other monasteries in parts of Yangon and arrested several monks. Sources confirmed that the army had raided the six-storied Religious Science Monastery in Chaukhtatgyi Pagoda, Moe Kaung Monastery in Yan Kin township, Maggin Monastery in Thingankyun township, and Thein Phyu monastery in Thein Phyu area and arrested several monks. An anonymous diplomat also said the junta claimed soldiers now had the monks \"under control\" and \"would now turn their attention to civilian protesters\".\n\nUp to 50,000 protesters took to the streets in Yangon. Protesters bleeding from beatings by security forces were seen scattering and fleeing in Sule. Security forces were reported to be preparing to use insect spray to crack down on protesters. Eyewitnesses said fire engines and insect spray carrier trucks were seen near Theingyi market in downtown Yangon. The BBC received unconfirmed reports that fire crews were ordered to fill their machines with insecticide.\n\nAccording to several news media, the armed forces gave the protesters 10 minutes to disperse or face extreme action. The radio station Democratic Voice of Burma reported that nine civilians, including Japanese photographer Kenji Nagai, had been shot and killed by the armed forces. Nagai was working for APF Tsushin, a media company based in Tokyo. The Japanese embassy in Myanmar later confirmed Nagai's death. Amateur video showing Nagai apparently being deliberately shot was aired on Japanese television. Later footage also showed a Burmese soldier taking Nagai's video camera.\n\nSoldiers fired both into the air and directly at students marching toward a high school in Tamwe township in Yangon. Primary school children were inside the school at the time and were reportedly hit by bullets, as were parents arriving to pick up their children. Unconfirmed eyewitness reports say 100 people were shot. Up to 300 of the students outside were arrested after a military truck rammed into the crowd.\n\nSome 50,000 protesters are reported to have demonstrated peacefully in Akyab while soldiers were stationed at seven key places, including government buildings, Lawkanada temple, and Akyi Tong Kong temple.\n\nIn the evening, the Burmese state television reported that nine people had been killed in a force crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Yangon. It added that eleven demonstrators and 31 soldiers had been injured.\n\nAt the end of the day, it was reported that the junta had formed new regiments to crack down on protesters. According to sources close to the military, Senior General Than Shwe took direct command after several commanders refused to use force to crack down on protesters. The newspaper \"The Guardian\" published a report of a letter received by Burmese exiles in Thailand, allegedly written by disgruntled military officers, expressing support for the protests and stating, \"On behalf of the armed forces, we declare our support for the non-violent action of the Buddhist monks and members of the public and their peaceful expression...\". The letter also announced the formation of a group called the Public Patriot Army Association. The \"Guardian\" was unable to confirm the authenticity of the letter itself before the story was published.\n\nThere were unconfirmed reports that Than Shwe's family fled the country. A chartered Air Bagan flight carrying eight passengers landed in Vientiane, Laos, at 6 p.m. (local time). Air Bagan is owned by Than Shwe's ally Tay Za.\n\nThe United Nations' special envoy to Myanmar, Ibrahim Gambari, was allowed into the country after the Burmese authorities bowed to international pressure. He was sent to Myanmar after the Security Council convened in New York over the crisis to call for restraint.\n\nOn 28 September, Yangon was emptier than the previous days, as people were afraid of violent reprisals from the army, though many still took to the streets chanting such phrases as \"wrongdoers who kill monks\" as well as \"the military science given by general Aung San is not supposed to kill the people\" (i.e. the military isn't supposed to kill the people). The President of the Philippines Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo urged Myanmar to take steps toward democracy. The Philippine President warned Myanmar that the Philippines would stop its financial help to Myanmar if opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi was not released. US envoys called on China to use its influence with Myanmar.\n\nThe Myanmar government attempted to dampen public awareness and communications around the protests by cutting Internet access. Troops specifically targeted those caught carrying cameras and beat them. On 28 September, after the killing of Japanese photographer Kenji Nagai by the junta, Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda said he regretted the killing and demanded a full explanation of his death. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations was urged to join the push for a UN mission to Myanmar, while the United Nations Security Council urged restraint from the government.\n\nThere were reports that Burmese troops from central Myanmar had started to march towards Yangon. The troops were from the Central Command based in Taungoo and the South East Command. It was not clear if the troops were marching to reinforce or to challenge the troops in Yangon for shooting the Buddhist monks.\n\nVice Senior-General Maung Aye, Than Shwe's second-in-command and the commander in chief of the army, \"reportedly disagreed with the violent approach taken against protesters\", and was scheduled to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi, who was reportedly taken to Yemon Military Camp on the outskirts of Yangon. Another report claimed Maung Aye had staged a coup against Than Shwe, that his troops were guarding Aung San Suu Kyi's home, and that diplomatic sources said that Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to a police academy compound outside Yangon; although no independent confirmation has been made on the report.\n\nHelfen ohne Grenzen (Help without Frontiers) reported that soldiers from the 66th LID (Light Infantry Division) had turned their weapons against other government troops and possibly police in North Okkalappa township in Yangon and were defending the protesters. While soldiers from 33rd LID in Mandalay were also reported to have refused orders to take actions against protesters, other reports state many soldiers remained in their barracks. Later reports stated that soldiers from the 99th LID were being sent in to confront them.\n\nA report warned that the military would attempt to trick UN envoys by asking their followers to carry out a set-up protest – protesting against the genuine demonstrations, with SPDC followers forcing civilians to join in. The same source stated that attendance of one person per family in some parts of the town was being demanded. In view of the Internet blackout, a group of \"88-generation activists\" urged the United Nations, along with the United States and United Kingdom embassies in Yangon, to open a one-page Web service via Wi-Fi access to the general public just to submit news photos. The blog site confirmed from different sources that soldiers and police were officially ordered not to shoot at the crowd.\n\nIt was also reported that the UN envoys would meet Lieutenant Senior General Maung Aye, the second chief of the junta.\nThe BBC reported that several hundred people had gathered in Yangon and that eyewitness reports said demonstrators were surrounded by security forces and pro-military vigilante groups. United Nations Special Envoy Ibrahim Gambari arrived in Yangon and was due to fly immediately to Naypyidaw to talk with the junta generals. Eyewitnesses told the BBC that over 1,000 people were demonstrating against the government. There were fresh reports of new violence; the French news agency AFP stated that security forces charged a group of around 100 protesters on the Pansoedan bridge in central Yangon.\n\nApproximately 5,000 people gathered to demonstrate in Mandalay. The military was reported to have put most monasteries under guard to prevent egress. People gathered at 80th, 84th, 35th, and 33rd Streets, before joining together; three military trucks followed them and tried to break up the demonstrators, arresting one student who attempted to cross the road in front of them. The military forced monks from outside Mandalay to return to their native towns, the military keeping the homes of NLD Party leaders under guard. Peaceful demonstrations were reported in Mandalay. The Ngwe Kyar Yan Monastery in South Okkalarpa which was subject to a raid some days earlier was under repair, some suggested, in an effort to eliminate evidence. A dedicated group of anti-riot troops was reported to have been formed within Brigate-77 led by Col. Thein Han under Minister Aung Thaung and General Htay Oo's supervision. Agricultural Minister General Maung Oo and Minister of Information Brig. General Kyaw Hsan was said to be in charge of arresting monks at night.\n\nOnly an hour after his scheduled arrival at Yangon, it was reported that Ibrahim Gambari, the UN Secretary-General's special adviser on Myanmar, had arrived in Naypyidaw to talk with the junta leaders. White House National Security Council Spokesman Gordon Johndroe stated \"We have concerns that Mr. Gambari was swiftly moved from Rangoon (Yangon) to the new capital in the interior, far from population centres\" and urged the junta to allow Gambari wide access to people, religious leaders and Aung San Suu Kyi. When asked if he expected to meet Suu Kyi, Gambari said: \"I expect to meet all the people that I need to meet.\"\n\nAn early report indicated that the junta denied Gambari a meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi. In addition, the army, late at night, set up a machine-gun nest outside her house.\n\nAn audio message from inside Myanmar said that crying crematorium workers claimed that they were forced by soldiers to burn injured protesters and civilians to death in YaeWay crematorium on the outskirts of Yangon. The \"Times Online\" later reported that it was \"widely accepted that the cremations began on the night of Friday, 28 September\", but the reports of people being burned alive were being \"treated with extreme caution by independent observers and have not been verified\". In Yangon, soldiers rerouted the Sule bus stop to Thamada Cinema in an effort to keep people away from Sule pagoda. Some bus drivers were not informed of this change, and passengers getting off at the old stop were beaten upon dismounting. In Mandalay, non-monk prisoners were taken to a field and a barber was asked to shave their heads so that they could be dressed as monks and forced to create confusion and mistrust of real monks.\n\nMonks and civilians were reported to have called diplomats to state that troops had arrived at three monasteries but had been prevented from entering by local residents who had massed outside. Making threats of returning in larger numbers, the soldiers then departed.\n\nMizzima news reported that in Mandalay, the NLD divisional organising committee member Win Mya Mya was arrested by police sub-Inspector Tun Lwin Naung at 11 p.m. last night at her home. \"She seemed to know in advance of her imminent arrest. She is prepared and took her clothes with her,\" her sister Tin Win Yee, told reporters, \"I am worried about her. This month is the period of Ramadan and she is being treated for her injury sustained in the Depayin incident\".\n\nCitizens in Myitkyina and other townships in northern Myanmar were coerced into joining pro-government rallies designed to manufacture a show of support for a national convention, though most of the speeches were simply condemnations from junta leaders of the uprisings. Two people from each household were required to attend. \"We were warned that we would be punished if we didn't come to the rally. So we attended it because we were afraid,\" said one resident.\n\nNgwe Kyar Yan Monastery in Rangoon, where some 200 monks were detained in the early morning two days earlier, was reported to have been looted by soldiers. Everything of value was said to have been removed, including forty or more Buddha statues and the head of one of the largest Buddhas which contains valuable jewels.\n\nThe largest demonstration in the country at Kyaukpadaung, Mandalay Division, numbered about 30,000 and was led by around 1,000 monks. The demonstrators marched peacefully despite heavy presence by security forces and military troops.\n\nSome 10,000 farmers in Wra Ma, 30 miles north of Taungup, southern Rakhine State, were reported to have joined hands to protest against the government. The demonstrators were said to have been angry at the government's action against monks in Yangon. The report stated that the authorities in Taungup sent a platoon of police to the village soon after they received the information about the demonstration.\n\nContrary to earlier reports, UN envoy Ibrahim Gambari was allowed to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi. The two spoke for ninety minutes at the State guest house in Yangon after Gambari returned from talks with the junta in Naypyidaw. Gambari met with acting Prime Minister Thein Sein, Culture Minister Khin Aung Myint and Information Minister Kyaw Hsan, but was not given an audience with senior general Than Shwe.\n\nThe Premier of the People's Republic of China, Wen Jiabao, announced: \"China hopes all parties concerned in Myanmar show restraint, resume stability through peaceful means as soon as possible, promote domestic reconciliation and achieve democracy and development\". Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged China to lean harder on Myanmar. Mark Canning, the United Kingdom's ambassador in Myanmar, told the BBC of the deep underlying political and economic reasons for the demonstrations, which he said would not go away easily; \"The cork has been put in the bottle, but the pressures are still there.\"\n\nColonel Hla Win, a central member of the military junta, was reportedly seeking political asylum in Norway. The colonel was said to be in hiding in the jungle with rebels of the Karen people. The colonel defected after being ordered to raid two monasteries and detain hundreds of monks. According to the colonel, these monks were to be killed and dumped in the jungle.\n\nAn eyewitness in Yangon says a monastery on Wei-za-yan-tar Road was raided early in the morning. Monks studying inside were ordered out, and one by one had their heads bashed against the brick wall of the monastery. Their robes were torn off and they were thrown into trucks and driven away. The head monk is confirmed to have died later that day. Only 10 of 200 remained afterwards, hiding inside, and the ground was covered with blood. Many civilians who had gathered to help were held back by the military with bayonets.\n\nThe Japanese Deputy Foreign Minister Mitoji Yabunaka, in Myanmar because of the death of Kenji Nagai, arrived in Naypyidaw to speak to government leaders.\n\nThe barricades around the Shwedagon Pagoda were removed, witnesses told Reuters, but soldiers were still stationed at the four entrances. Monks said that at least five of their number had been killed during the clashes with security forces. Eyewitnesses said that troops and police were still positioned at many street corners and key locations around Yangon, making it impossible for demonstrators to gather.\n\nMark Canning, the British ambassador to Myanmar, said that China was pushing hard for Gambari's mission to be as long and as far-reaching as possible.\nThousands of heavily armed soldiers were reported to be patrolling the streets of Yangon, and there were no signs of protests against the junta. The troops were stopping pedestrians and car drivers and searching them for cameras. The internet and mobile phone networks were still largely disrupted.\n\nAround 4,000 monks were said to have been rounded up by the military during the previous week in an attempt to stamp out the protests. They were being held at a disused race course. A BBC report said that sources from a government-sponsored militia stated they would soon be moved away from Yangon, and that the monks have been disrobed and shackled. The Democratic Voice of Burma, the banned opposition broadcaster, published a photograph which they said showed the body of a monk floating near the mouth of the Yangon river.\n\n5,000 protesters were reported to have gathered in the town of Man Aung, Rakhine State, in the morning. They marched while holding two banners displaying their demands; for the release of all political prisoners, a reduction in commodity prices, and national reconciliation.\n\nThree people were arrested at a protest in Sanchaung Township in Yangon a report in \"The Irrawaddy\" stated.\n\nIbrahim Gambari met with Aung San Suu Kyi for a second time, just hours after returning from talks with Than Shwe in Naypyidaw, where he conveyed concerns over the violent crackdown.\n\nA report about imprisoned monks in Myanmar stated they were refusing to touch food given them by the military, and by doing so symbolically maintain their boycott of the regime.\n\nMyanmar prime minister General Soe Win, reportedly died of leukaemia in Rangoon Defense Hospital, Mingladon, Yangon. But other sources claimed the rumours were false.\n\nThe United Nations Human Rights Council met and discussed the situation in Myanmar during a special session, and passed a resolution deploring the violent repression of peaceful demonstrations, and urging the release of all those arrested during the demonstrations.\n\nA BBC report stated that Gambari was in Singapore for a meeting with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, but had not spoken with journalists. He was to prepare a report on his talks with Burma's leaders and brief the UN Security Council later in the week.\n\nReports from Yangon stated that some 25 monks were arrested by security forces in a raid on a temple overnight. As a result of the military crackdown on anti-government protests, \"scores of monks\" were said to be trying to leave Yangon, although some bus drivers refused to carry them as passengers, fearing they would not be allowed petrol. Military vehicles fitted with loudspeakers patrolled Rangoon's streets blaring: \"We have photographs. We are going to make arrests.\" Some 80 monks and 149 women thought to be nuns, who had been detained during part of the military's crackdown on protesters, were freed, Reuters reported.\n\nRiot police and soldiers were reported to be scouring Yangon with photographs to identify and arrest participants in last week's protests.\n\nA report about nightly actions against demonstrators quoted one resident who said: \"The repression is continuing every night. When there are no more witnesses, they drive through the suburbs at night and kill the people.\" The report stated that there is hunger and misery, many of the monks who demonstrated last week came from Okalapa Township and after suppressing Yangon centre on 29 September troops turned their attention to that township the following day.\n\nThe body of the Japanese journalist, Kenji Nagai, was returned to Japan. An autopsy would be carried out; Japanese officials said that he was not shot accidentally as Burmese authorities have said, but was shot at close range. APF News, who employed Nagai, demanded that the camera he held when he was killed be returned; to that date only his second camera, thought to be a back-up, had been returned. Toru Yamaji, the head of APF News, said: \"Our biggest task now is to confirm and report on what's in his camera and what he wanted to tell the people on his last day\".\n\nAnother report stated that up to 10,000 people, many of them monks who led the protests, had been \"rounded up for interrogation in recent days\". United States diplomats who visited 15 monasteries found them empty, while others were being barricaded and guarded by soldiers, the report said.\n\nThe opposition rejected the junta's conditional offer of talks with Aung San Suu Kyi. Shari Villarosa, the United States top diplomat in Myanmar, was invited to talk with the military leaders. The envoy was to 'clearly convey Washington's condemnation of last week's bloody repression' a US spokesperson said. The invitation followed a state television broadcast stating that nearly 2,100 people had been arrested over the last week and some 700 had been freed.\n\nReuters reported that protesters who applauded the demonstrations could face two to five years in jail, while the leaders could face 20 years. The Democratic Voice of Burma forwarded reports of some 50 students who demonstrated in Mandalay who had been sentenced to five years hard labour.\n\nSome 60 troops from a battalion based in Akyab were reported to have been sent to the town of Man Aung, on Man Aung Island, to deal with demonstrations that continued for three days, ending on 2 October.\n\nAfter meeting with many of the parties involved Ibrahim Gambari returned to New York and briefed the Security Council about his visit. The ambassador from Myanmar said of his country that had it had \"indeed experienced a daunting challenge. However, we have been able to restore stability. The situation has now returned to normalcy. Currently, people all over the country are holding peaceful rallies within the bounds of the law to welcome the successful conclusion of the national convention, which has laid down the fundamental principles for a new constitution, and to demonstrate their aversion to recent provocative demonstrations.\"\n\nYangon residents were reported to be \"keeping up a low-key resistance\", harassing troops by tossing rocks at them. In response, security forces detained some of the rock throwers. The retired General, U Aung Kyi, currently serving as Deputy Minister of Labor, was appointed as an official go-between for talks between Aung San Suu Kyi and the military junta on 8 October 2007.\n\nYe Min Tun, a foreign ministry official for ten years, told the BBC how \"appalling\" treatment of Buddhist monks during the previous month's protests had forced him to resign from the military regime. Asked whether he thought the pro-democracy movement was now finished, the diplomat said: \"I think it's not the end. I think it's just the beginning of the revolution.\"\n\nSouth African president Nelson Mandela withdrew an invitation to Gary Player to host a fundraising golf tournament because of the former British Open champion's business links with Burma.\n\nThere were reports that a Win Shwe, a member of the National League for Democracy, died during interrogation in the central Myanmar region of Sagaing. He and five colleagues had been arrested on 26 September. White House foreign affairs spokesman Gordon Johndroe said \"The United States strongly condemns the atrocities committed by the junta and calls for a full investigation into the death of Win Shwe during his detention in Burma. The junta must stop the brutal treatment of its people and peacefully transition to democracy or face new sanctions from the United States.\" Witnesses claim that security forces were raiding houses in search of anyone whom they suspected of having been involved in the protests.\nThe body of Win Shwe was not released, Thailand-based Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) said. \"His body was not sent to his family and the interrogators indicated that they had cremated it instead.\" Fears were expressed for others still held in police custody.\n\nSources claimed that five military generals and more than 400 soldiers of Sikai Division near Mandalay had been jailed for refusing to shoot and beat monks and civilians during the protests. Many civil servants were also staying away from work to show their disapproval of the junta's action.\nRolls Royce also made an official statement that it was ceasing all business dealings with the junta. It said it would cease aircraft engine repair work and terminate a contract involving the lease of an aircraft to a Burmese airline. A spokesman said \"At that point, Rolls-Royce will have no further involvement in Burma.\"\n\nThe Security Council met and issued a statement and reaffirmed its \"strong and unwavering support for the Secretary-General's good offices mission\", especially the work by Ibrahim Gambari. It also \"strongly deplored the use of violence against peaceful demonstrations in Myanmar\", welcomed the Human Rights Council of 2 October 2007, and emphasised the importance of the \"early release of all political prisoners and remaining detainees\", as well as urging the junta to prepare for a \"genuine dialogue\" with democratically elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Although a statement does not have the power of a resolution, it requires the consent of all its members and has been seen as a shift in position of China. Official media in Burma called the UN statement \"regrettable,\" and stated that more than half of those arrested during the protests have since been released.\n\nMilitary rulers arrested what was thought to be the last four known leaders, part of the \"88 Students Generation\" activists of the 1988 pro-democracy uprising. Those detained included prominent woman activist Thin Thin Aye (also known as Mie Mie), Aung Htoo and Htay Kywe. Amnesty International issued a statement expressing grave concern for their safety and for others still being held.\n\nThousands attended a \"pro-government\" rally in Rangoon organised by the junta, many allegedly under coercion. Burmese dissident groups claimed that the numbers who attended the rally was much smaller than the government's figures. They also claimed that people were bussed to the rallies by the junta. AFP news agency also reported that every factory in the city's industrial zone had each been obliged to send 50 participants to the rally.\n\nAmnesty International issued a revised statement saying that six dissidents had been arrested in Yangon over the weekend. They said: \"Continued arrests fly in the face of the promises made this week by the Myanmar authorities to cooperate with the United Nations.\"\n\nGambari arrived in Thailand and issued a statement describing the latest arrests in Yangon as \"extremely disturbing\" [and] \"counter to the spirit of mutual engagement\" between the UN and Burma. The UN hoped that his meeting with military officials in Burma scheduled in mid November could be brought forward. Meanwhile, United Kingdom PM Gordon Brown urged the EU to propose tougher sanctions on Burma ahead of an EU meeting in Luxembourg at which the banning of imports of gemstones, timber and metals was already proposed for discussion.\n\nThe EU announced an agreement for further sanctions against the military junta but some have conceded that its leverage with Burma is limited and sanctions have so far controversially steered clear of its energy sector of which French oil giant Total is a major investor.\n\nJapan has cancelled funding of more than $4.7 m for a human resources centre based in Rangoon University. Chief Cabinet Secretary Nobutaka Machimura said that the decision was made in response to the military action in Burma. A White House spokesman said that the US was considering toughening its own existing sanctions. Meanwhile, ASEAN said it will not consider suspending Myanmar as a member, and rejected any proposal for economic sanctions. (As of 2004 Myanmar chaired a great number of Asean-sub-summits.) On 16 October 2007 Burma said it had arrested approximately 100 monks in the protests and that only 10 people had died, but widespread opinion held the real figures to be higher.\n\nThree high-profile demonstrators were released by the Burmese government; Zargana, a prominent comedian, along with actor Kyaw Thu, and his wife. In a published statement the junta stated: \"Those who led, got involved in and supported the unrest which broke out in September are being interrogated\" and \"Some are still being called in for questioning and those who should be released will be.\" Officials claimed that a total of 2,927 people had been detained and nearly 500 were still being held, an increase of almost 800 since the previous official figures released on 8 October. Those released had been asked to sign a \"pledge\" first.\n\nReports in the \"Democratic Voice of Burma\" claimed that the NLD party chairman U Kyaw Khine, and secretary Ko Min Aung, have both been sentenced to seven and a half years imprisonment. U Htun Kyi and U Than Pe, two members of the NLD organising committee in Sandoway township, were sentenced to four and half years, while another party member from Gwa township, U Sein Kyaw, is standing trial. A total of around 280 party members were arrested, including 50 members in Kyaukse township in Mandalay Division, while others are reportedly on the run. Whilst reporting the same news, \"The Irrawaddy\" added a report about U Indriya, a monk from Sait-Ta-Thuka monastery, who is said to be one of the leaders of a peaceful demonstration in Sittwe. As a result, he has been sentenced to seven and a half years imprisonment.\n\nTwo former schoolteachers, Tin Maung Oo and Ni Ni Mai, appeared in court after they spoke out against a pro-government rally in Paung Tal township, Bago division. On 16 October at about 5 am, a pro-government group were marching past the teachers house, shouting slogans denouncing the monk-led demonstrations and supporting the National Convention. The protestors stopped at seeing a sign hung outside by Maung Oo, which denounced those who tortured and killed monks and civilians. Ni Ni Mai stood in the doorway and asked the protestors if 'they really agreed with the killing of monks and civilians in Rangoon' at which the protestors stopped chanting slogans and some of them dropped their placards. A leader of the government protest is reported to have taken photographs of the couple and their house; later that day the township police chief and two female police officers came to arrest them. The couple are due to appear in court for sentencing on 30 October.\n\nPresident Bush has announced further sanctions against the Burmese military. He has tightened export controls and frozen more financial assets held by the junta and urged China and India to apply more pressure. In a White House statement he said: \"Monks have been beaten and killed. Thousands of pro-democracy protesters have been arrested\". \"Burma's rulers continue to defy the world's just demand to stop their vicious persecution\". \"We are confident that the day is coming when freedom's tide will reach the shores of Burma.\"\n\nA senior British diplomat told the BBC that some 2,500 people are still being held by the military. British officials also received first-hand accounts of grim conditions under which many detainees are still being held. Night raids are said to be continuing with hundreds being arrested.\n\nBurma's military announced the lifting of a curfew in two main cities, Mandalay and Yangon. The statement is being widely seen as a sign that the government is confident that it has now gained control of the recent dissent. However it is unclear whether the recent government ban on assemblies of more than five people had also been lifted.\n\nIt has been announced that the United Nations special rapporteur for Human Rights in Burma, Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro, is to be allowed to visit Burma. Burmese Foreign Minister Nyan Win wrote to the UN stating that Pinheiro could arrive before mid-November. This will be the first visit by Pinheiro in four years; previously the military junta has refused to give their permission. Pinheiro welcomed news of his invitation, telling Reuters news agency that it was \"an important sign that the government wants to engage again in constructive dialogue with the UN and the Human Rights Council\". The BBC's Laura Trevelyan reports from the UN that the timing of the invitation is significant, a summit of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) is due to open on 17 November. The regime may believe that the move could reduce further criticism from members of Asean.\n\nRights groups report that hundreds of ethnic minority tribespeople are fleeing Burma into the border state of Mizoram, India to escape the military regime. They claim that they are being forced to join pro-government rallies, in some cases at gunpoint, and if they refuse they face fines of up to 10,000 kyats ($7), while others have been arrested including Christian pastors. Many of the exodus are from the Christian minority ethnic Chin people who say they have been persecuted by the junta for being Christians and non-ethnic Burmese. Although they were initially welcomed in Mizoram after the 1988 military crackdown they now face threats of a pushback, as the Mizos (who are ethnic cousins of Chins) are now strongly opposing \"unrestricted migration from the Chin State\" for fear that they may one day be outnumbered by them.\n\nMeanwhile, India has been accused of allowing its strategic and business interests to prevail in Burma, and for failing to put pressure on the generals.\n\nHundreds of riot police and government troops armed with rifles and teargas launchers are said to be back on the streets of Rangoon (Yangon). They have surrounded the Shwedagon and Sule Pagodas, the two main focal points of peaceful demonstrations led by Buddhist monks in September. There are also said to be large coils of barbed wire present, in readiness to block streets. The troop presence coincides with the end of Buddhist Lent, and is thought to be aimed at preventing new protests, though according to Reuters there are no new protest developments. It also comes a day after detained pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi met with a military officer for talks. State Councilor for China Tang Jiaxuan told Gambari of the UN, who is expected to return to Burma in early November that words were the way forward. \"The Myanmar issue, after all, has to be appropriately resolved by its own people and government through their own efforts of dialogue and consultation.\"\n\nMore than 100 Buddhist monks marched through the central town of Pakokku, northwest of Yangon. This was the first time they have returned to the streets since the crackdown by the junta in September. One monk who was on the march told the Democratic Voice of Burma, a Norway-based radio station run by dissident journalists: \"We are continuing our protest from last month as we have not yet achieved any of the demands we asked for. Our demands are for lower commodity prices, national reconciliation and immediate release of [pro-democracy leader] Aung San Suu Kyi and all the political prisoners.\" Thai-based director of the Human Rights Education Institute of Burma, Aung Nyo Min, said \"This is very significant... we are very encouraged to see the monks are taking up action and taking up peaceful demonstrations in Burma.\"\n\nThe Burma government is to expel the United Nations' top diplomat in the country, UN officials have said. The military regime told UN's Burma country chief, Charles Petrie, his mandate was not going to be renewed. It is not clear when he will have to leave. Mr Petrie is known to have voiced concerns over the junta's violent break-up of peaceful demonstrations in September: \"The events clearly demonstrated the everyday struggle to meet basic needs and the urgent necessity to address the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the country,\" Mr Petrie's statement said, 24 October, United Nations Day. The US called the expulsion an outrage and an insult.\n\nBurma's military rulers have given a date for United Nations human rights envoy Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro to begin a five-day visit on 11 and 15 November. Pinheiro, known officially as the UN's special rapporteur on human rights in Burma, has warned: \"If they don't give me full co-operation, I'll go to the plane, and I'll go out.\" Pinheiro had been refused entry since 2003. His visit comes before a meeting of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean).\n\nOne year after the protests started, small acts of defiance continued. In particular, a 'stop sign' (the palm of a raised hand inside a circle) is being stamped onto banknotes and other places as a reminder of the protests. Several bomb attacks also took place at Yangon throughout the month which the junta blamed was carried out by the NLD.\n\nOn 19 October 2008 a bomb exploded in the Htan Chauk Pin quarter of the Shwepyitha Township of Yangon, near the office of the military junta-backed Union Solidarity and Development Association killing one. According to the New Light of Myanmar, the victim was identified as Thet Oo Win, a former Buddhist monk who participated in the Saffron Revolution, was killed while improvising the bomb at his own residence. The junta blamed the National League for Democracy party of planting that bomb, but experts believed at the time that the opposition was not in a position to carry out such acts amidst the tightly controlled security environment.\n\nThe number of casualties is not yet clear. According to ABC, the military crackdown claimed hundreds of lives. The official toll remains at 13 killed. Kenji Nagai, the Japanese photo journalist, is believed to currently be the only foreign casualty of the unrest. However, it is possible that the death toll may be many times greater than officially reported.\n\nSpeaking before the UN General Assembly, the UN Human Rights Council's Special Rapporteur Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro said that independent sources reported 30 to 40 monks and 50 to 70 civilians killed as well as 200 beaten.\n\nDemocratic Voice of Burma puts the number of deaths at 138, basing their figure on a list compiled by the 88 Student Generation group in Myanmar. The Executive Director of the DVB, Aye Chan Naing, told the Associated Press that \"[t]his 138 figure is quite credible because it is based on names of victims, I also think the figure is accurate because of the pictures coming from inside Burma. The way they were shooting into the crowds with machine guns means dozens of people could have died.\"\n\nA report in the \"Daily Mail\" states that \"[t]housands of protesters are dead and the bodies of hundreds of executed monks have been dumped in the jungle\", the report is based on information provided by Colonel Hla Win, who defected from the army some days prior to the report, he is quoted as having said \"Many more people have been killed in recent days than you've heard about. The bodies can be counted in several thousand.\".\n\nAustralia's \"The Age\" reports that, after two non-protesters were shot in northwest Yangon, \"the army came back, gave the families 20,000 kyat (~$20) each and took away the corpses.\"\n\nReports forwarded by \"Times Online\" stated that the abbot of Ngwe Kyar Yan monastery in north west Yangon was so severely beaten by soldiers \"that he died on the spot\"; the soldiers had been lining monks up against a wall and smashing each of their heads against the wall in succession before throwing them into trucks.\n\nThe final death toll still remained 31 confirmed by the UN human rights envoy to Burma, Paulo Sergio Pinheiro.\n\nOn 7 October Al Jazeera News reported that at least 1,000 people had been arrested. This figure was provided by Burma's state-run media, the New Light of Myanmar. On 11 October state media reported new figures – that 2,100 people have been arrested and 700 already released. In contrast, foreign sources claim that more than 6,000 people are being held. London-based business news agency Reuters reported about 80 monks and 149 women (believed to be Buddhist nuns) were released by the junta on 3 October 2007.\n\nOn 11 November 2008, a court in Insein Prison sentenced 14 88 Generation Students Group members (Arnt Bwe Kyaw, Kyaw Kyaw Htwe aka Marky, Kyaw Min Yu aka Jimmy, Mar Mar Oo, Min Zeya, Nilar Thein, Pannate Tun, Sanda Min aka Shwee, Than Tin aka Kyee Than, Thet Thet Aung, Thin Thin Aye aka Mie Mie, Thet Zaw, Zaw Zaw Min and Zay Ya aka Kalama) arrested during the anti-government protests to 65 years in prison. The government used a variety of laws including the \"foreign exchange act\" and the \"video and electronics act\" which prohibit Burmese nationals from holding foreign currency or from owning electronic and video equipment without a permit. 26 other activists, including five monks from the Ngwe Kyar Yan monastery in Yangon, were given prison sentences ranging from 6 to 24 years. U Gambira was sentenced to 68 years in prison, at least 12 years of which will be hard labour; other charges against him are still pending.\n\nThe government attempted to block all websites and services that could carry news or information about Myanmar, barring access to web-based email. However protesters were able to access the Internet anyway and as a result the protests received a never before seen level of international news coverage. Bloggers in Yangon succeeded in circumventing the censors, posting pictures and videos on blogs almost as soon as the protests began. Many of these images were picked up by mainstream news organisations, because bloggers had managed to capture images that no one else was able to get. When Aung San Suu Kyi stepped outside her home in Yangon to greet marching monks and supporters on Saturday, the only pictures of the landmark moment were posted on blogs. Mizzima News, an India-based news group run by exiled dissidents, picked up one of the photos of Aung San Suu Kyi and said more than 50,000 people accessed their website that day.\nSome Burmese internet users are trying to use internet forums to obtain outside information uncontrolled by the government about their situation. On 28 September it was reported that the government had blocked all access to the Internet. The official explanation is that maintenance is being carried out but Sky News reports that all Internet cafés have also been closed.\n\nBy at least midnight local time on 6 October, internet access had been restored to Yangon. Sources in Burma said on 6 October that the internet seems to be working from 22:00 to 05:00 local time.\n\nWhile most countries expressed support for protests and urged the Junta to implement far-reaching reforms, some key countries, such as the People's Republic of China and India maintained commitment to the notion of noninterference and even showed tacit support to the regime.\n\nThe United States, European Union, and Canada have imposed a number of sanctions on the junta, including a freeze on bank accounts and restrictions on imports of gems and timber.\n\nThe United States Department of the Treasury announced sanctions against 14 senior officials of Myanmar. Among those targeted for the sanctions are the junta leader, Senior Gen. Than Shwe, and Deputy Senior Gen. Maung Aye. The action by Treasury will freeze any assets that the individuals targeted have in US banks or other financial institutions under US jurisdiction. The order also prohibits any US citizens from doing business with the designated individuals.\n\nOn 27 September the European Union began considering \"targeted reinforced sanctions\" against the military junta, with current sanctions already including an arms embargo, asset freezes, and visa and trade bans. Their aim was to back sanctions that did not harm the population.\n\nPrime Minister John Howard of Australia, confirmed reports that the Australian Government would deliver targeted financial sanctions against members of the military junta, as well as possibly introducing other measures to further restrict the military leaders.\n\nNobel Peace Prize laureate Desmond Tutu urged to intervene in the ongoing protests in Myanmar. \"China, you have leverage – tell those brutal men to stop their brutality,\" Tutu said at the Goteborg Book Fair in Sweden. Archbishop Emeritus Tutu said that if China did not take a stance against the military rulers in Myanmar he would \"join a campaign to boycott the Beijing Olympics\" next year.\nCalls for a boycott of the 2008 Summer Olympic Games grew around the world, as more people began to say that increased pressure on the Chinese government was the best way to support the Burmese people. The British Broadcasting World News TV service aired interviews, e-mails and text messages from many parts of the world supporting the idea and also called on people to cancel tickets, airline bookings and hotel reservations in Beijing.\n\nActivists and campaign organisations worldwide, including Burma Campaign UK and the US Campaign for Burma along with members of the Support the Monks' Protest in Burma Facebook group (later the Burma Global Action Network), called for 6 October to be designated a Global Day of Action for Burma from 12:00 noon. This event was also held in Sydney (Australia), Montreal, Ottawa, Kitchener and Vancouver (Canada); New York, Washington D.C., San Diego (United States); Dublin (Ireland), Hong Kong and Norway in their consecutive days.\n\nInternational Bloggers' Day for Burma, a campaign for bloggers to not post to their blogs, was to be on 4 October. Instead they are being asked to put up a banner, underlined with the words \"Free Burma!\".\n\nA worldwide action by bloggers originating in Italy will set a signpost for peace and support the people of Myanmar through the internet. On 4 October 2007 all bloggers and website owners worldwide were called upon to support the \"free Burma\" campaign by adding a graphic to their website frontdoors and blog only about Myanmar related topics. An internet action likewise has not been reported so far.\n\nA Facebook users group, \"Support the Monks' protest in Burma\", was formed immediately following the first network reports of monks marching past Aung San Suu Kyi's house. The group grew to over 380,000 members by 9 October and 440,000 at its peak. Some members of the group, who later formed into an official organisation called Burma Global Action Network joined the call for a Global Day of Action for Burma through public demonstrations on 6 October in cities and towns worldwide.\nWired magazine noted the significance of the grassroots effort in an article asking whether Facebook has given birth to 'open-source politics.'\n\nA campaign labelled \"Panties for Peace\" began on 16 October; focussing on the superstitions of Burma's generals, particularly junta chief Than Shwe, that views contact with any item of women's wear as depriving them of their power, women throughout the world have been sending packages to Burmese embassies containing panties; the campaign has spread to Australia, Europe, Singapore and Thailand. People in Burma also began to hang pictures of Than Shwe around the necks of stray dogs, as it is a very strong insult in Burmese tradition to be associated with a dog, and began to spray anti-junta graffiti in bus and train stations, with slogans such as \"killer Than Shwe\".\n\nIn Australia, James Mathison from Australian Idol has lent his support, hosting a Free Burma rally on 10 November in Sydney.\n\nWhile local protests at French oil giant Total Oil's garages were taking place from October on, the first global consumers' boycott of Total Oil (which also owns ELF and FINA) and US-based Chevron (which also owns Texaco, Caltex and Unocal) was called for on 16 November 2007 because the corporations to be able to exploit Yadana natural gas pipeline in southern Burma are paying to the junta an estimated $450million/year and are now lobbying in the US and Europe against government measures to support a democratic transition in Burma. To protect Total's interests, the government has become an obstacle to any serious strengthening of EU measures against Burma. The French government has pushed for the junta to be admitted into international associations, defending Total's investments. The global online initiative hosted by Avaaz.org \"to refuse to buy fuel from any Total, Chevron, ELF, FINA, Texaco or Caltex station in our home countries and wherever we travel\" was signed by 20,255 people with the aim of delivering 40,000 signatures to the top management of the corporations.\n\nAlthough Chevron and Total Oil claim that their presence benefits the Burmese population, Aung San Suu Kyi said in Le Monde that \"Total has become the main supporter of the Burmese military regime.\" already in 2005.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42195710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42195710", "title": "Sandia Pueblo Settlement Technical Amendment Act", "text": "Sandia Pueblo Settlement Technical Amendment Act\n\nThe Sandia Pueblo Settlement Technical Amendment Act (; ) is a bill that would transfer to the Sandia Pueblo of New Mexico some land from the United States Forest Service, provided that land remains an \"open space in its natural state.\" The bill is a technical corrections bill and is supposed to transfer 700 acres from the federal government to the Sandia Pueblo.\n\nThe bill passed in the United States Senate during the 113th United States Congress.\n\nSandia Pueblo is a federally recognized tribe of Native American Pueblo people inhabiting a reservation of the same name in the eastern Rio Grande Rift of central New Mexico. It is bounded by the city of Albuquerque to the south and by the foothills of the Sandia Mountains, a landform the people hold sacred and which was central to the traditional economy and remains important in the spiritual life of the community, to the east. A forested area known as the \"bosque\" surrounds the rest of the reservation, and serves as a source of firewood and wild game. A resident population of 4,414 was reported as of the 2000 census. Two communities located on its territory are Pueblo of Sandia Village and part (population 3,235) of the town of Bernalillo. A federally recognized tribe, Sandia Pueblo is one of 19 of New Mexico's Native American pueblos. The land that would be conveyed to the Sandia Pueblo is considered to have important spiritual and cultural meaning to the tribe.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Sandia Pueblo Settlement Technical Amendment Act would amend the T'uf Shur Bien Preservation Trust Area Act to require the Secretary of Agriculture, upon the receipt of certain consideration and at the request of the Sandia Pueblo of New Mexico and the Secretary of the Interior, to transfer certain National Forest land to the Secretary of the Interior to be held in trust for the Pueblo, provided a land exchange with the Pueblo required by that Act is not completed within 90 days of this Act's enactment.\n\nThe bill would require that National Forest land to be preserved as open space in its natural state.\n\nThe bill would also require the Pueblo to transfer to the Secretary, in exchange for such land, the Pueblo's La Luz tract and an amount equal to the difference between the value of: (1) the National Forest land as open space in its natural state, and (2) the La Luz tract and the compensation owed to the Pueblo by the Secretary for the right-of-way and conservation easement on its Piedra Lisa tract.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, as ordered reported by the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs on October 30, 2013. This is a public domain source.\"\n\nS. 611 would require the Secretary of Agriculture to transfer certain lands in the Sandia Mountain Wilderness and Cibola National Forest in New Mexico to the United States Department of the Interior to be held in trust for the Pueblo of Sandia. In exchange for the specified National Forest lands, the legislation would require the Secretary of the Interior to transfer certain lands and easements held in trust for the Pueblo of Sandia to the Forest Service.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing S. 611 would have no significant impact on the federal budget. Based on information provided by the Forest Service, CBO estimates that the cost of administering the land transfers would be minimal. Enacting S. 611 would not affect direct spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply.\n\nS. 611 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would benefit the Pueblo of Sandia.\n\nThe Sandia Pueblo Settlement Technical Amendment Act was introduced into the United States Senate on March 19, 2013 by Sen. Tom Udall (D, NM). It was referred to the United States Senate Committee on Indian Affairs. It was reported on January 28, 2014 alongside Senate Report 113-136. The bill passed in the Senate on March 12, 2014 by unanimous consent. On May 28, 2014, the United States House of Representatives voted to pass the bill in a voice vote. On June 9, 2014, President Barack Obama signed the bill into law, becoming .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56078547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56078547", "title": "State Surveillance and Defense Police", "text": "State Surveillance and Defense Police\n\nThe State Surveillance and Defense Police (\"Polícia de Vigilância e Defesa do Estado\") (PVDE) was a police force of the Portuguese State, which operated between 1933 and 1945. The PVDE was responsible for border surveillance, control of foreigners, immigration control, and state security.\n"}
{"id": "34441842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34441842", "title": "The Lincoln–Douglas Debates (1994 reenactments)", "text": "The Lincoln–Douglas Debates (1994 reenactments)\n\nThe 1994 reenactments of the Lincoln–Douglas Debates took place between August 20 and October 15, 1994 and were facilitated and aired by C-SPAN. They featured historical reenactors presenting, in their entireties, the series of seven debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas that took place during the 1858 U.S. Senate campaign in Illinois. The debate reenactments were held in the same seven cities as were the 1858 debates, and were performed on dates very close to the anniversaries of the original debates. They were broadcast live on C-SPAN, and have been rebroadcast periodically ever since.\n\nThe inspiration for the series came from the book \"The Lincoln–Douglas Debates: The First Complete, Unexpurgated Text\", edited by Harold Holzer. Holzer had been interviewed about that book the previous year on the C-SPAN series \"Booknotes\".\n\nIn 1993, C-SPAN staff approached the mayors of the seven cities in Illinois where the 1858 debates had been held (Ottawa, Freeport, Jonesboro, Charleston, Galesburg, Quincy, and Alton) and arranged with each city to recreate the debates using their own local resources. Subsequently, C-SPAN spent over $300,000 on the promotion and coverage of the debates and on the creation of related educational materials.\n\nThe C-SPAN School Bus was used as a traveling television studio at each of the debate locations. Prof. John Splaine of the University of Maryland, College Park, was a consultant to C-SPAN and provided commentary on each of the debates.\n\n"}
{"id": "25818630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25818630", "title": "Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition", "text": "Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition\n\nTrade Unionist and Socialist Coalition (TUSC) is a socialist electoral alliance launched in Britain for the 2010 general election.\n\nTUSC's co-founder was the RMT union general secretary Bob Crow. Members of the PCS, NUT, FBU and POA unions are on the steering committee. The most prominent participating groups are the Socialist Party and Solidarity. At the 2015 general election, TUSC stood 135 parliamentary candidates across England, Wales and Scotland, and 619 in the local elections. TUSC did not stand candidates in the 2017 UK general election as they supported Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the Labour Party.\n\nAt the March 2009 Socialist Party congress, RMT executive members Alex Gordon and Brian Denny addressed Socialist Party delegates in an official capacity, outlining the RMT's proposal for workers slates in the European elections in June. At a later congress session this initiative was formally agreed by congress delegates, and No to EU – Yes to Democracy (NO2EU) was formed. NO2EU, an electoral alliance, headed by Bob Crow, between the RMT, the Communist Party of Britain and the Socialist Party, subsequently led to the formation of the Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition. The Socialist Party, which had previously participated in the Socialist Alliance and Welsh Socialist Alliance and backed the Campaign for a New Workers' Party, termed No2EU \"an important first step towards independent working class political representation\", despite criticisms of the name and other minor issues. The Socialist Party stated it \"would prefer a name that includes 'socialism', for marked ideological contrast to New Labour, and also one that makes it clear that the coalition is a working class alternative.\" Nevertheless, the Socialist Party noted the success of Die Linke in Germany, the New Anticapitalist Party in France and Coalition of the Radical Left in Greece, and emphasized the need for a \"genuine socialist alternative\" in the European elections.\n\nAfter the European elections, in July 2009, the CPB released a statement expressing willingness to continue the No2EU programme and support left-wing alliance candidates in some constituencies, but also called for a vote for Labour Party candidates in others. However, on 17 January 2010 the Executive Committee of the Communist Party declined to formally participate in the coalition.\n\nNegotiations to found the coalition continued over several months after the EU election. One proposed name for the coalition was \"Trade Unionists and Green Socialists Alliance\". The RMT, which had formally supported No2EU, initially decided, in January 2010, not to similarly back TUSC, but allowed individual branches to support it. It later gave TUSC candidates its full backing (see below). On 12 January 2010, the coalition was announced and subsequently, the RMT National Council of Executives supported 20 TUSC candidates on receipt of local RMT branch requests. TUSC chairperson Dave Nellist stood as a candidate for the coalition in the constituency of Coventry North East. Among the other candidates were Jackie Grunsell in Colne Valley constituency, Keith Gibson in Hull West and Hessle, Dave Hill in Brighton Kemptown, Ian Page in Lewisham Deptford, Rob Williams in Swansea West and Tim Cutter in Southampton Itchen.\n\nSome political groups such as the Alliance for Workers Liberty and the \"Weekly Worker\" newspaper have argued that the coalition was formed in secret and without democratic input.\n\nMeanwhile, just after the 2009 European Elections, the Socialist Workers Party, which had not taken part in No2EU but which had itself been part of the Socialist Alliance and the Respect Party, published its \"Open Letter to the Left\", in which it called for \"a united fightback to save jobs and services\" and subsequently joined TUSC; it left TUSC (England and wales) in 2017 but remains part of the autonomous Scottish TUSC.\n\nThree Annual General Meetings (2012, 2013 and 2014) of the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) have endorsed RMT support for TUSC candidates and the RMT is formally represented on the TUSC steering committee. TUSC has been endorsed by the late Bob Crow, formerly the General Secretary of the RMT, Brian Caton, former General Secretary of the Prison Officers' Association (POA), Steve Gillan and Joe Simpson, General Secretary and Assistant General Secretary of the POA, Janice Godrich, President of the Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS), Chris Baugh, Assistant General Secretary of the PCS and eight members of the UNISON National Executive Council.\n\nIn February 2015, senior figures from Unite the Union condemned the Socialist Party and by implication TUSC, for standing candidates against Labour in marginal constituencies for the 2015 general election. The open letter addressed to the Socialist Party, which does not mention TUSC, accuses the Socialist Party of having a \"derisory\" electoral record. In response, the Socialist Party claimed that a Labour government \"would be at best austerity-lite and a continuation of the crisis that faces working class people.\"\n\nIn July 2015, Labour MP Steve Reed accused TUSC members in his Croydon North constituency, including a TUSC candidate who had stood against Labour in the May 2015 general election, of joining the Labour Party in order to vote for Jeremy Corbyn in the Labour leadership election. According to Reed: \"The system was set up for Labour supporters, not Labour opponents. We don’t know if this is a one-off or a systemic attempt by Trotskyites to infiltrate the Labour Party.\" In an interview for \"The Independent\", Socialist Party deputy leader Hannah Sell stated that \"a Corbyn victory would create the basis for a new 100 per cent anti-austerity party of the working class.\"\n\nAs of early August 2015, 92 TUSC members, including 11 TUSC candidates who stood in the 2015 general election, are known to have become registered supporters of the Labour Party.\n\nTUSC is a political party with a federal structure, not a coalition. It has been registered as a political party with the Electoral Commission since 2010. All candidates supporting the coalition must support a core policy platform, but beyond this each candidate is free to campaign on the platform of their own political party.\n\nTUSC launched its manifesto for the 2015 general election in London's financial district of Canary Wharf.\n\nThe TUSC registered with the Electoral Commission to campaign in favour of Britain leaving the European Union.\n\nThe manifesto outlines \"five key pledges\":\n\n\nTUSC local election candidates sign up to a platform, which commits them to:\n\n\nTUSC and the Scottish TUSC (STUSC) announced 44 parliamentary candidates for the 2010 general election, including ten in Scotland. They received a total of 15,573 votes, or 0.1% of the popular vote. TUSC's average vote nationwide was around 371 (1.0%); no deposits were returned. TUSC was registered with the Electoral Commission in January 2010.\n\nTUSC claimed that the possibilities of electoral success should not be exaggerated. TUSC consistently stated that \"not too much can be drawn from a handful of electoral contests, either ‘writing off’ TUSC or exaggerating the possibilities at this stage.\" Another claimed factor in 2010 was a perceived \"squeeze\" that generated disappointing results for many smaller parties. \"Fear of a Tory government galvanised people to vote Labour, and we were squeezed. People were too afraid to demand something better for fear of getting something worse.\" Tottenham candidate Jenny Sutton claimed.\n\nTUSC stood 135 prospective parliamentary candidates across England, Wales and Scotland, as well as 619 council candidates in local elections.\n\nThe organisation announced in October 2014 that it had received a guarantee of funding from Socialist Alliance. The funds would provide for one hundred deposits in parliamentary contests, as well as a Party Political Broadcast.\n\nThe party performed badly at the election, winning 36,327 votes, or 0.1% of the popular vote. No parliamentary seats were gained and no deposits were saved.\nTUSC called for a victory for Labour in the 2017 general election and did not run candidates in the elections.\n\nFollowing the 2018 elections, TUSC retained at least one affiliated councillor in Coxford, Southampton, following the re-election (as Independent - Putting People First) of TUSC national steering committee member Keith Morrell. Two other former Putting People First councillors also retain their seats as Independents, but the group has since dissolved.\n\nFollowing the 2016 elections, TUSC had three councillors in Southampton under the banner of Coxford Putting People First, Kevin Bennett having lost his seat in Warrington; Hull Red Labour and Walsall Democratic Labour also lost their remaining seats.\n\nTUSC renewed its promise to field the largest left-of-Labour challenge in the parliamentary and local authority elections. It bolstered its 2014 local election candidacy count by 70, bringing the total to 650. As it also fielded 135 PPCs, in every major town and city in England, Wales, and Scotland, TUSC subsequently exceeded the overall number of candidates to satisfy the BBC's fair coverage threshold, qualifying it for distribution of election material via the Royal Mail, as well as time on the major networks for the airing of a Party Election Broadcast.\nTUSC gained no seats (and, in one ward, no votes) and lost three anti-cuts councillors in Leicester and Hull. They retain one affiliated councillor each in Warrington, Walsall and Hull, and two in Southampton.\n\nTUSC announced the 'biggest left-of-Labour electoral challenge in 60 years' in the 2014 local elections, fielding 561 candidates. There were 53 candidates who were members of the RMT transport workers' union, 19 Communication Workers' Union members who were candidates, 18 members of the National Union of Teachers, 16 PCS members, 20 members of the University and College Union. From the big Labour-affiliated unions, there were 74 Unison members standing for TUSC and 130 members of Unite. TUSC gained two seats in Southampton with the defection of Don Thomas from Labour and the re-election of Keith Morrell, also previously Labour, as Councillors Against Cuts, as well as a second seat on Maltby Town Council. The overall popular votes achieved in the campaign exceeded 68,000.\n\nTUSC lost its representation in Maltby in the autumn of 2014 with the removal of their two councillors for non-attendance, and lost its Preston councillor when Michael Lavalette retired his seat. However, TUSC gained two affiliated councillors in the shape of Hull Red Labour, following their expulsion from Labour in 2014. In January 2015, TUSC gained a councillor in Warrington (Fairfield and Howley ward) with the defection of Kevin Bennett from Labour.\n\nA total of 120 candidates contested the English local elections on 2 May under the TUSC umbrella, 5% of the seats. In addition, TUSC stood a candidate in the Doncaster mayoral contest and two candidates in council by-elections that were held on the same day. It was mainly county councils up for election, largely Conservative controlled. The TUSC candidate for the mayor of Doncaster, Mary Jackson, polled 1,916 votes, achieving sixth place, ahead of the Liberal Democrats.\n\nTUSC stood in the Eastleigh by-election. Candidate Daz Procter achieved 0.15% of the vote.\nUp to mid-November 2013, TUSC had contested 27 council by-elections in 2013 (with candidates in place for ten more). TUSC’s average percentage share of the vote in these seats was just under 6%. Joe Robinson won a seat for TUSC on Maltby Town Council.\n\nTUSC stood 132 candidates in 38 councils, with 17 candidates for the Greater London Assembly. Two TUSC-backed candidates were elected, Michael Lavalette in Preston and Peter Smith in Walsall. In the council elections in England and Wales TUSC candidates averaged 6.2% of the poll. Tony Mulhearn, one of the 47 Liverpool Councillors who refused to set a budget for the council, and led a campaign of defiance of the Conservative government in the 1980s stood as the candidate for Mayor of Liverpool, coming fifth with 4.86% of the vote. In Scotland, 38 candidates stood in nine councils as the Scottish Anti-Cuts Coalition (SACC). The TUSC campaign for the Greater London Assembly was launched by Bob Crow of the RMT and Matt Wrack of the FBU, and candidates included Alex Gordon, President of the RMT trade union and April Ashley a member of the UNISON National Executive.\nTUSC stood candidates in the 2012 by-elections for Manchester Central (garnering 1.3%), Middlesbrough (1.6%) and Rotherham (1.3%).\n\nTUSC stood 174 candidates in the May 2011 council elections. In 13 seats TUSC polled over 10% and in over a quarter polled more than 5%. The average vote was 50.2%.\n\nTUSC stood a total number of 24 candidates out of two Welsh Assembly regions in the 2011 Welsh Assembly elections in which it came 10th place out of 11 parties in the South Wales West region with 809 votes (0.5%) and for the South Wales Central region, it came 11th place out of 12 parties with 830 votes (0.4%). It gained 1,639 votes in total with 0.2% nationwide.\n\nEach of TUSC's constituent organisations are entitled to representation on the national steering committee and engage in decision-making regarding policy, strategy, and the selection of candidates. They include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1326214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1326214", "title": "Transylvanian peasant revolt", "text": "Transylvanian peasant revolt\n\nThe Transylvanian peasant revolt (), also known as the peasant revolt of Bábolna or Bobâlna revolt (), was a popular revolt in the eastern territories of the Kingdom of Hungary in 1437. The revolt broke out after George Lépes, bishop of Transylvania, had failed to collect the tithe for years because of a temporary debasement of the coinage, but then demanded the arrears in one sum when coins of higher value were again issued. Most commoners were unable to pay the demanded sum, but the bishop did not renounce his claim and applied interdict and other ecclesiastic penalties to enforce the payment.\n\nThe Transylvanian peasants had already been outraged because of the increase of existing seigneurial duties and taxes and the introduction of new taxes during the first decades of the century. The bishop also tried to collect the tithe from the petty noblemen and from Orthodox Vlachs who had settled in parcels abandoned by Catholic peasants. In the spring of 1437, Hungarian and Vlach commoners, poor townspeople from Kolozsvár (now Cluj-Napoca in Romania) and petty noblemen started to assemble on the flat summit of Mount Bábolna near Alparét (Bobâlna) where they set up a fortified camp. The bishop and his brother, Roland Lépes, the deputy of the voivode (or royal governor) of Transylvania, gathered their troops to fight against the rebels. The voivode, the two counts of the Székelys and many Transylvanian noblemen also hurried to the mountain to assist them against the rebels.\n\nThe rebels sent envoys to the voivode to inform him about their grievances, but the envoys were captured and executed. The voivode invaded the rebels' camp, but the peasants resisted and made a successful counter-attack, killing many noblemen during the battle. To prevent the rebels from continuing the war, the bishop and the leaders of the noblemen started negotiations with the rebels' envoys. Their compromise was recorded in the Kolozsmonostor Abbey on 6 July. The agreement reduced the tithe by half, abolished the ninth (a seigneurial tax), guaranteed the peasants' right to free movement and authorized them to hold an annual assembly to secure the execution of the agreement.\n\nThe noblemen, the counts of the Székelys and the delegates of the Saxon seats concluded a \"brotherly union\" against their enemies at Kápolna (Căpâlna). The rebellious peasants left their camp and moved towards Dés (Dej). After a battle near the town, the parties concluded a new agreement on 6 October which increased the rent payable by the peasants to the landowners. Shortly thereafter, the peasants invaded the Kolozsmonostor Abbey and took possession of Kolozsvár and Nagyenyed (Aiud). The united armies of the voivode of Transylvania, the counts of the Székelys and the Saxon seats forced the rebels to surrender in January 1438. The leaders of the revolt were executed and other rioters were mutilated at the assembly of the representatives of the Three Nations of Transylvania in February.\n\nTransylvania (\"the Land beyond the Forests\") was a geographic region in the 15th-century Kingdom of Hungary. Four major ethnic groups – the Hungarians, Saxons, Székelys, and Vlachs (or Romanians) – inhabited the territory. The Hungarians, the Hungarian-speaking Székelys, and the Saxons formed sedentary communities, living in villages and towns. Many of the Vlachs were shepherds, herding their flocks between the mountains and the lowlands, but the monarchs and other landowners granted them fiscal privileges to advance their settlement in arable lands from the second half of the century. The Vlachs initially enjoyed a special status, which included that they were to pay tax only on their sheep, but Vlach commoners who settled in royal or private estates quickly lost their liberties. For administrative purposes, Transylvania was divided into counties and seats. The seven Transylvanian counties were subjected to the authority of a high-ranking royal official, the voivode of Transylvania. The seats were the administrative units of the autonomous Saxon and Székely communities. \n\nThe voivodes presided over the noblemen's general assemblies, which were annually held at a meadow near Torda (Turda). From the early 15th century, the voivodes rarely visited Transylvania, leaving the administration of the counties to their deputies, the vice-voivodes. The Transylvanian noblemen were exempted from taxation in 1324. Noblemen were granted the right to administer justice to the peasants living in their estates in 1342. The prelates acquired the same right in their domains in the second half of the 14th century. In 1366, Louis I of Hungary decreed that an oath taken by a Vlach \"knez\" (or chieftain) who \"had been brought\" to his estate by royal writ was equal to a true nobleman's oath, but other \"knezes\" were on a footing of equality with the heads of villages. The legal position of the \"knezes\" was similar to the \"nobles of the Church\" and other groups of conditional nobles, but the monarchs frequently rewarded them with true nobility. The ennobled Vlachs enjoyed the same privileges as their ethnic Hungarian peers, thus they became members of the \"Hungarian nation\" which had been associated with the community of noblemen. On the other hand, the Vlach commoners who lived on their estates lost their liberties.\n\nThe Székelys were a community of privileged border guards. They fought in the royal army, for which they were exempted from taxation. A royal official, the count of the Székelys, was their supreme leader, but the Székely seats were administered by elected officials. The Saxons also had the right to elect the magistrates of their seats. They enjoyed personal freedom and paid a lump sum tax to the monarchs. The wealthiest Saxon towns – Bistritz, Hermannstadt and Kronstadt (Bistrița, Sibiu and Brașov) – owned large estates which were cultivated by hundreds of peasants. Dozens of Saxons and Székely families held landed property in the counties, for which they also enjoyed the status of noblemen. Saxon and Székely leaders were occasionally invited to Torda to attend the general assemblies, which enabled the leaders of the three nations to coordinate their actions. \n\nThe towns, located in the counties, could hardly compete with the large Saxon centers. Kolozsvár was granted the right to buy landed property from the noblemen or other landowners in 1370, but its burghers were regarded as peasants by the bishops of Transylvania and the abbots of Kolozsmonostor Abbey, who forced them to pay the ninth (a seigneurial tax) on their vineyards until 1409. The merchants from Kolozsvár, Dés and other Transylvanian towns were exempted from internal levies, but the noblemen often ignored that privilege, forcing the merchants to pay duties while travelling across their domains.\n\nThe Hungarians, Saxons and Székelys adhered to Roman Catholicism. The Diocese of Transylvania included most of the province, but the Saxons of Southern Transylvania were subjected to the archbishops of Esztergom. Catholic commoners were to pay an ecclesiastic tax, the tithe, but John XXIII exempted the lesser noblemen from paying it in 1415. However, George Lépes, the bishop of Transylvania, ignored this decision, especially after John had been declared an antipope. The Vlachs were originally exempt from the ecclesiastic tax, but Sigismund of Luxemburg, king of Hungary, decreed that the Vlachs who settled on lands abandoned by Catholic peasants were to also pay the tithe. Sigismund was an absent monarch, deeply involved in European politics; he spent much time outside Hungary, especially in his other realms, such as Germany and Bohemia.\n\nThe Ottomans attacked Transylvania almost every year starting in 1420. The peasants had to pay the increasing costs for defence against the Ottomans. They were regularly obliged to pay \"extraordinary taxes\" in addition to the chamber's profit (the traditional tax payable by each peasant household to the royal treasury). The king also ordered that every tenth peasant should take up arms in case of an Ottoman attack, although peasants had always been exempt from military obligations. The accommodation of the troops was also an irksome duty, because the soldiers often forced the peasants to supply them with food and clothes. The landowners began to collect the ninth from the peasants. Although the ninth had already been introduced in 1351, it was not regularly collected in Transylvania. The noblemen also made attempts to hinder the free movement of their serfs.\n\nThe increasing taxes and the new burdens stirred up the commoners. The Transylvanian Saxons could only overcome their rebellious serfs with the assistance of the vice-voivode, Roland Lépes, in 1417. The united armies of the counties and the Saxon seats crushed the Székely commoners' uprising in 1433. In early 1434, the burghers of Kronstadt had to seek the assistance of the count of the Székelys against the Vlachs who had risen up in Fogaras County. Hussite ideas, especially their egalitarian Taborite version, began to spread among the peasantry in the 1430s. In May 1436, George Lépes urged the inquisitor James of the Marches to come to Transylvania, because Hussite preachers had converted many people to their faith in his diocese.\n\nIn order to tackle financial burdens resulting from the Hussite wars and military campaigns against the Ottoman Empire, Sigismund of Luxemburg put lower value silver coins into circulation in 1432. The new pennies were known as quarting because they contained only a quarter of the silver content of the old currency. Bishop Lépes, who knew that pennies of higher value would again be minted in a few years, suspended the collection of the tithe in 1434.\n\nAfter the valuable coins were issued, Lépes demanded the tithe for the previous years in one sum. Historians estimate that the peasant families were required to pay six to nine gold florins, although the value of an average peasant lot was only about 40 florins. Most peasants were unable to pay this amount, especially because they also had to pay the seigneurial taxes to the owners of their parcels.\n\nTo secure the payment of the arrears, the bishop applied ecclesiastic penalties, placing whole villages under interdict in summer 1436. He also excommunicated the petty noblemen who had refused to pay the tithe. However, most serfs resisted and their lords were unwilling to assist the bishop. At the bishop's request, the king ordered the voivode and the \"ispáns\" (or heads) of the counties to secure the collection of the tithe in early September. The king also decreed that all peasants who failed to pay the arrears within a month after their excommunication were to pay twelve golden florins as a penalty.\n\nThe revolt developed from local disturbances in the first half of 1437. The villagers from Daróc, Mákó and Türe (Dorolțu, Macău and Turea) assaulted the abbot of Kolozsmonostor at Bogártelke (Băgara) in March. In Alsó-Fehér County and around Déva (Deva), the serfs gathered into small bands and attacked the noblemen's manors. Peasants from Alparét and Bogáta (Bogata de Sus) were the first to settle on the top of the nearby Mount Bábolna in May or June. Being surrounded by high cliffs and dense forests and crowned by a plateau of about , the mountain was an ideal place for defence. Following the Taborites' military strategy, the rebels established a camp on the flat summit of the mountain.\n\nA lesser nobleman, Antal Nagy de Buda, came with a group of peasants from Diós and Burjánosóbuda (Deușu and Vechea) to the mountain. The Vlach Mihai arrived with people from Virágosberek (Florești). Salt miners from Szék (Sic) and poor townspeople from Kolozsvár joined the peasantry. About 5–6,000 armed men gathered on the plateau by the end of June, according to historian Lajos Demény's estimation.\n\nBishop Lépes and his brother, the vice-voivode, started to assemble their troops near the peasants' camp. The absent voivode, Ladislaus Csáki, hurried to Transylvania. The counts of the Székelys, Michael Jakcs and Henry Tamási, also joined the united armies of the voivode and the bishop. The young noblemen who joined the campaign wanted to make a sudden assault on the peasants, but the bishop suggested that the peasants should be pacified through negotiations. The delay enabled the rioters to complete the fortification of their camp.\n\nThe peasants elected four envoys to inform the voivode about their grievances. They requested Csáki to put an end to abuses over the collection of the tithe and to persuade the bishop to lift the ecclesiastic bans. They also demanded the confirmation of the serfs' right to free movement. Instead of entering into negotiations, the voivode had the rebels' envoys tortured and executed in late June. He soon invaded the rebels' camp, but the peasants repulsed the attack and encircled his army. During the ensuing battle, many noblemen perished; Bishop Lépes barely escaped from the battlefield.\n\nThe representatives of the noblemen and the rebels entered into negotiations in early July. The rebels' deputies were appointed by their leaders, including Pál Nagy de Vajdaháza, who styled himself \"the flag bearer of the \"universitas\" of the Hungarian and Vlach inhabitants of this part of Transylvania\". The use of the term \"universitas\" evidences that the peasantry sought the acknowledgement of their liberties as a community. The peasants emphasized that they wanted to \"regain their freedoms granted them by the ancient kings, freedoms that had been suppressed by all sorts of subterfuges\", because they were convinced that their liberties had been recorded in a charter during the reign of the first king of Hungary, Saint Stephen. Their belief in a \"good king\" who had secured his subjects' welfare in a mythical \"golden age\" was not unusual in the Middle Ages.\n\nThe parties reached a compromise which was recorded in the Kolozsmonostor Abbey on 6 July. They agreed that the tithe would be reduced by half. The payment of the rents, taxes and other levies due to the landowners and the royal treasury was suspended until the tithe was collected. The agreement abolished the ninth and prescribed that the peasants were only required to pay the rent to the landowners. The annual amount of the rent was fixed at 10 denars, much lower than the rent from before the uprising. The noblemen also acknowledged the peasants' right to free movement, which could only be limited if a peasant failed to fulfill his obligations to the landowner. To keep the execution of the agreement under surveillance, the peasants were authorized to hold an annual assembly at Mount Bábolna. Their assembly was entitled to punish noblemen who had broken the compromise.\n\nThe Kolozsmonostor agreement prescribed that the \"delegates of the noblemen and the inhabitants of the realm\" should ask Sigismund of Luxemburg to send an authentic copy of Stephen's charter. The peasants agreed that the provisions of the charter were to be applied in case of a contradiction between the charter and the Kolozsmonostor agreement. The peasants preserved the right to elect delegates and start new negotiations with the representatives of the noblemen if Stephen's charter did not properly regulate their obligations towards the landowners.\n\nThe bishop and the noblemen regarded the Kolozsmonostor agreement as a temporary compromise. They only wanted to prevent the rebels from continuing the fight and to save time to muster new troops. They assembled at Kápolna and started negotiations with the counts of the Székelys and the delegates of the Saxon seats. This was the first occasion when the representatives of the noblemen, Székelys and Saxons held a joint assembly without the authorization of the monarch. They concluded a \"brotherly union\" against their enemies in early September, pledging to provide military assistance to each other against both internal and foreign aggressors. The bishop seems to have acknowledged that petty noblemen were exempt from paying the tithe, according to Demény, because the Diet of Hungary decreed that noblemen could not be forced to pay the tithe in 1438.\n\nThe rebels abandoned their fortified camp on Mount Bábolna, most probably because they needed new provisions. They moved towards Dés, pillaging the noblemen's manors during their march. They threatened all who did not support them with severe punishments. They established a new camp on the Szamos (Someș) River near the town. A new battle was fought between the rebels and their enemies near the camp in late September.\n\nAfter being unable to overcome the rebels, the noblemen started new negotiations with them at Dellőapáti (Apatiu). The representatives of the two parties reached a new compromise on 6 October, which was included in a new charter in the Kolozsmonostor Abbey four days later. For unknown reasons, the peasants accepted less favorable terms than those of the first agreement. Demény argues, their leaders had most probably realized that they were unable to resist for a long time. \n\nAccording to the new agreement, the minimum amount of the rent payable by the peasants to the landowners was increased to 12 denars per year; peasants who held larger plots were to pay 25 to 100 denars to their lords, which was equal to the sum payable before the uprising. The new agreement did not determine the \"gifts\" that the peasants were to give to the landowners, only stating that they were required to fulfill this obligation three times a year. The agreement confirmed the noblemen's right to administer justice to the peasants living in their estates, but also stipulated that the peasants could appeal against their lords' decision to the court of a nearby village or small town.\n\nThe second agreement was again regarded as a provisional compromise by both parties. The charter prescribed that a joint delegation of the rebels and the noblemen should be sent to the king, who was staying in Prague, to seek his arbitration. There is no evidence of the appointment of the delegates or their departure for Prague. Sigismund of Luxemburg died on 9 December 1437.\n\nKnowing that their camp on the Szamos could easily be attacked, the rebels marched towards Kolozsvár in October or November. They invaded and pillaged the Báthorys' estates at Fejérd (Feiurdeni). They also captured and beheaded many noblemen before attacking the abbey and forcing the abbot to flee. A group of rebels took possession of Nagyenyed with the assistance of its poor burghers and the inhabitants of the nearby villages. Most burghers of Kolozsvár also sympathized with the rebels, who thus entered the town without resistance. A Saxon charter recorded that Antal Nagy de Buda died fighting against the noblemen before 15 December. Demény refutes the credibility of the report, saying that all other sources indicate that the peasants were still resisting in January 1438.\n\nThe united armies of the new voivode, Desiderius Losonci, and Michael Jakcs laid siege to Kolozsvár. On 9 January, they sent a letter to the Saxon leaders, urging them to send reinforcements to contribute to the destruction of the \"faithless peasants\". During the siege, \"not one soul could come out or go in\" the town, according to the besiegers' report. The blockade caused a famine which forced the defenders to surrender before the end of January. The rebel groups around Nagyenyed were annihilated around the same time.\n\nThe delegates of the three Estates of Transylvania, noblemen (including the ennobled Saxons and Vlachs), Székelys, and Saxons, assembled at Torda on 2 February 1438. They confirmed their \"brotherly union\" against the rebellious peasants and the Ottoman marauders. Nine leaders of the revolt were executed at the assembly. Other defenders of Kolozsvár were mutilated. Taking advantage of the victory, the leaders of the noblemen also made attempts to harm their personal enemies. For instance, the voivode who wanted to seize some properties of the Báthorys accused them of having cooperated with the rebels. In retaliation for the support of the rebels, Kolozsvár was deprived of its municipal rights on 15 November. However, the burghers attained the restoration of their liberties with the support of John Hunyadi on 21 September 1444.\n\nContemporaneous letters unanimously described the revolt as a peasant war against their lords. On 22 July 1437, the judge royal, Stephen Báthory, referred to the Transylvanian events as the \"peasants' war\"; on 30 September, Roland Lépes mentioned that a nobleman had been wounded \"in the general fight against the peasantry\"; and Bishop Lépes wrote of the \"war of the peasants\" on 27 January 1439. Other documents (including the records of the meetings of the town council of Nagyenyed) emphasized that craftsmen and townspeople also joined the revolt. No contemporaneous source recorded that national hatreds played any role in the uprising. On the contrary, the cooperation of the Hungarian and Vlach commoners during the rebellion is well-documented. The first compromise between the rebels and the noblemen explicitly mentioned their common grievances. For instance, the rebels complained that \"both the Hungarians and the Vlachs who lived near castles\" had arbitrarily been compelled to pay the tithes on their swines and bees.\n\nHistorian Joseph Held states, the \"conservative stance of the Transylvanian peasant movement was similar to late medieval peasant movements elsewhere in Europe\". The peasants only wanted to secure the abolition of new seigneurial duties and the restoration of the traditional level of their taxes, without calling into question the basic structure of the society. On the other hand, Lajos Demény writes, the movement developed into a \"general attack against feudal society\" in Transylvania. Both historians conclude that the rebels could not achieve their principal purposes. The peasants' right to free movement was partially restored, but the landowners were again able to reduce it during the last decade of the century. According to historian Jean Sedlar, Vlach peasants \"occupied the lowest rung of the social ladder, superior only to slaves\" in medieval Transylvania because of their Orthodox faith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27885821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27885821", "title": "Treaty on the Establishment of Peace throughout Christendom", "text": "Treaty on the Establishment of Peace throughout Christendom\n\nThe Tractatus pacis toti Christianitati fiendae, or Treaty on the Establishment of Peace throughout Christendom, was the unsuccessful project of universal peace initiated by King George of Bohemia in the 15th century. For its realization, serious diplomatic negotiations took place among European states in the years 1462-1464. The project abandoned the mediaeval idea of a universal empire headed by the Emperor Frederick III and the Pope for the concept, up to that time unknown, of a permanent union of independent and equal European states. The plan of King George of Poděbrady was proposed in the form of a multilateral agreement; this differed from conventional international instruments of the Middle Ages, which in general remained bilateral. The Project in determining the contractual terms of this agreement would have bound together the parties at issue with similar rights and responsibilities for the achieving of common goals. All this gives reason to assert that the Treaty on the Establishment of Peace throughout Christendom was the first multilateral treaty to have been closest in design to modern ones.\n\nIt is seen as one of historical visions of European unity forgoing the European Union, for example by prominent scholar of nationalism Anthony D. Smith.\n\n"}
{"id": "5397410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5397410", "title": "Trevor Pears", "text": "Trevor Pears\n\nSir Trevor Steven Pears CMG (born 18 June 1964) is a British businessman and philanthropist. He is the executive chairman of the Pears Foundation, the family foundation he set up in 1992 with his two brothers, Mark and David.\n\nTrevor Pears is the son of Clive Pears and Clarice Talisman Castle (1933–1999), and the grandson of Bernard Pears. Clarice Talisman Castle was born in and grew up in Lochside Street, Shawlands, Glasgow, the daughter of Abraham Castle, a dealer in electrical and wireless appliances, and his wife Hannah.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family, he inherited along with his brothers Mark and David, a multi-billion pound property empire, the William Pears Group, founded by his father and grandfather.\n\nHe was educated at the private City of London School for Boys, followed by City Polytechnic, where he studied law.\n\nPears oversees the strategic direction of the Foundation, which is concerned with positive identity and citizenship and seeks to build respect and understanding between people of different backgrounds and faiths; investing in programmes in the UK, Israel and the developing world. The Foundation has also partnered with the British Council, British Embassy in Israel, and UJIA to fund research into treating diabetes, heart disease, leukaemia, anaemia and Alzheimer’s.\n\nHe lives in Hampstead, London, with his wife Daniela and their three children. In 2005, he donated £20,000 to David Cameron's Tory leadership campaign. In 2014, Daniela Pears was appointed as mayoress of Camden. She is also a trustee of the Jewish charity Mitzvah Day.\n\nPears is a fellow of Birkbeck, University of London and was appointed Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in the 2011 New Year Honours for services to the community and UK/Israel relations. Pears remains a director of his family business, the William Pears Group. He was knighted in the 2017 Birthday Honours for services to philanthropy.\n\n"}
{"id": "6530929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6530929", "title": "Ukrainian National Assembly – Ukrainian People's Self-Defence", "text": "Ukrainian National Assembly – Ukrainian People's Self-Defence\n\nThe Ukrainian National Assembly – Ukrainian People's Self-Defence (, УНА-УНСО, UNA-UNSO) is a Ukrainian political organisation seen as far-right in Ukraine and abroad. Although the Ukrainian National Assembly (, UNA) was the organisation's political wing, on 22 May 2014 it merged with Right Sector; the UNA-UNSO continues to operate independently. According to Andreas Umland and Anton Shekhovtsov, the UNSD was created in 1991 as a \"formation manned by UNA members who had served in the Soviet armed forces ... to confront the State Committee for the State of Emergency\".\n\nThe UNA was created on 30 June 1990 in Lviv as the Ukrainian Interparty Assembly (UMA), led by maverick politician and nationalist writer Dmytro Korchynsky. On 3–4 November 1990, a congress of the Ukrainian National Association (UNS) was held in Kiev. On 11 January 1991, UNS squads headed by Yuriy Tyma guarded the Seimas Palace during the January Events in Lithuania. On 30 June 1991, about 200 UNS members held a torchlight parade in Lviv commemorating the 1941 declaration of Ukrainian independence.\n\nDuring the first days of the 1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt, a UNS squad led by Vietnam War veteran Valeriy Bobrovych left for Moscow; the squad later laid the foundations for the Argo battalion. On 19 August 1991, during the struggle against the State Committee on the State of Emergency, the UNS created squads of the Ukrainian People's Self-Defense (UNSO) in Kiev. The squads were formed around a small group of ethnic-Ukrainian Soviet army veterans of the war in Afghanistan. In December 1990 Yuriy Shukhevych, the son of Roman Shukhevych, was elected as the first leader of the UNS. Because of the 8 September 1991 Declaration of Independence of Ukraine, the sixth session of the UMA was renamed the Ukrainian National Assembly; it became known as the UNA-UNSO, due to the UNSO's close association with the UNA.\n\nSince its 1991 independence, Ukraine has had separatist movements aiming to reunite portions of Ukraine with Russia and other neighbouring countries. UNA-UNSO stopped People's Deputy Goncharov of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union from reestablishing the Donetsk–Krivoy Rog Soviet Republic and the Donetsk National Guard in the Donbass. In Kiev, the Patriotic Forum (\"Otyechestvyennyi forum\") was abolished. In November 1991 the UNSO held a rally, and due to a brawl involving UNSO fighters the government made the first mass arrests of UNSO activists. In Odessa UNSO halted an initiative to create a Novorossiysk Republic, influencing separatist movements in Bukovina and Zakarpattia. On 7 June 1992, an UNSO group from Lviv broke up a Romanian congress in Chernivtsi which advocated the unification of northern Bukovina and Romania. In early 1993, the UNSO had a reported 4,000 members.\n\nThe UNA was registered as a political party in December 1994, and in the 1994 Ukrainian parliamentary election three UNA-UNSO members were elected as deputies to the Verkhovna Rada (Ukrainian parliament). In September 1995, its registration was suspended until 1997.\n\nUNSO was registered as a public organization in Lviv, Ternopil, Rivne and Poltava Oblasts only. In practise, however, there was no distinction between the membership of both organizations.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1997, UNA-UNSO members became prominent in Ukraine through a number of anti-Russian activities. UNA-UNSO deputies destroyed a Russian flag in the Verkhovna Rada, UNA-UNSO fighters joined Chechen rebels in the First Chechen War and activists organised demonstrations against Russian pop singers visiting Ukraine. UNA-UNSO took sides in Ukrainian church affairs and clashed with police during the July 1995 funeral of Patriarch Volodomyr, head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyivan Patriarchate. The organisations supported Patriarch Filaret Denysenko, who was excommunicated by the Russian Orthodox Church, and participated in violent attempts to seize property for the new church (particularly in Rivne and Volyn Oblasts). Membership peaked at around 10,000 members, about 90 percent of whom were between 18 and 35 years old. The organisation was depicted in Georgiy Gongadze's 1994 documentary film, \"Shadows of War\".\n\nIn 1997, the government of Leonid Kuchma banned the Ukrainian National Assembly – Ukrainian National Self Defence. UNA-UNSO members responded with violent street protests, resulting in over 250 arrests. Dmytro Korchynsky, one of those arrested, soon left the organisation.\n\nIn 1998 UNA-UNSO's new leaders were Andriy Shkil and Yuriy Shukhevych, the son of Ukrainian nationalist Roman Shukhevych. In the 1998 Ukrainian parliamentary election, the organisation received 0.39 percent of the vote.\n\nUkrainian National Assembly – Ukrainian Nationalistic Self Defense members participated in the 2000–01 Ukraine without Kuchma protest campaign. In the 2002 parliamentary elections Andriy Shkil won an electoral district in Lviv Oblast and a seat in the Verkhovna Rada, the party itself won 0.04% of the votes. In 2003 Shkil left the party, and he has become an aide to Yulia Tymoshenko. During the Orange Revolution UNA-UNSO members supported Viktor Yushchenko against his pro-Russian opponents, providing security for Yushchenko supporters and Orange leaders such as Yulia Tymoshenko in Kiev's Independence Square.\nIn 2005, Yuriy Shukhevych again became the party's leader. In the 2006 parliamentary election, it failed to win parliamentary representation with 0.06 percent of the vote and did not participate in the 2007 election.\n\nIn 2008 South Ossetian attorney general Teimuraz Khugayev accused UNA-UNSO of joining a Georgian unit during the August war, but no evidence has been provided. According to an August 2009 Russian Investigative Committee report, 200 UNA-UNSO members and soldiers from the Ukrainian Ground Forces aided Georgia during the fighting. Ukraine denied the accusation. UNA-UNSO deputy head Nikolay Karpyuk said that \"unfortunately\", no organisation members took part in the Georgian conflict.\n\nUNA-UNSO participated in the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election, receiving 0.08 percent of the national vote and winning none of the five electoral districts in which they fielded candidates.) and thus failed to win parliamentary representation.\n\nIn March 2014 Russia brought a criminal case against the party and some of its members, including party leader Oleh Tyahnybok) of Svoboda, for \"organizing an armed gang\" which allegedly fought the Russian 76th Guards Air Assault Division during the first Chechen war. The organisation's Ukrainian National Assembly political wing merged with Right Sector on 22 May 2014.\n\n\n\nDuring the Transnistria War, UNA-UNSO members fought with Transnistrian separatists against Moldovan government forces in defence of a large ethnic-Ukrainian minority in Transnistria. Over 50 UNSO members were awarded the Defender of Transnistria Order.\n\nIn 1993, UNA-UNSO sent volunteers to the Abkhaz–Georgian conflict against Abkhaz separatists. The UNA-UNSO Argo unit joined the Georgian side against Russian-backed Abkhaz forces, and some volunteers joined the Sukhumi Battalion of the Marine Infantry Forces of Georgia. A CPT Ustym squad prevented an amphibious assault of Russian forces near Sukhumi, sinking a Russian military motorboat. Seven UNSO members died near Sukhumi, and 30 members received the Order of Vakhtang Gorgasali medal.\n\n\nThe Ukrainian National Assembly – Ukrainian People's Self-Defence 1994 party platform envisioned Kiev as the centre of a new, Pan-Slavic, eastern military bloc. International-security expert Andrew McGregor said in 2006 that the UNA-UNSO \"might be best characterized as an influential fringe movement\" and \"its high visibility belies its limited numbers\". Its anthem is \"Stay, my love, don't cry, honey\", a reprise of \"Bella ciao\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19593069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19593069", "title": "Vernon Rosario", "text": "Vernon Rosario\n\nVernon A. Rosario II (born 1962) is an American psychiatrist and medical historian who studies human sexuality. His recent work has focused on transgender and intersex youth, and he has served as chair of the medical advisory board for Intersex Society of North America.\n\nRosario earned undergraduate degrees in French literature and biomedical engineering from Brown University in 1986. He received his Ph.D. in the History of Science from Harvard University in 1993, and his M.D. from the Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology in 1995. Rosario completed a residency and fellowship with the UCLA Neuropsychiatric Institute in 2002. Since then he has been in private practice and been a psychiatric consultant at Gay and Lesbian Adolescent Social Services in Los Angeles. He has held a UCLA clinical teaching position since 2003, and is currently an Associate Clinical Professor in the Department of Psychiatry.\n\nRosario has published in English, French, and Spanish, and his books include \"Science and Homosexualities\" and \"The Erotic Imagination: French Histories of Perversity.\" He has been a longtime activist in eliminating homophobia, and he has criticized author J. Michael Bailey’s stereotypic depiction of gay men in \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\". As a child and adolescent psychiatrist, one major focus has been helping young LGBT people come out to their families. Rosario has also expressed concern for excessive specialization in psychiatry, focusing on neuroscience while ignoring other factors.\nAs chair of the LGBT Committee of the Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry, he edited and published a web-based course on LGBT mental health.\n\n"}
{"id": "17159784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17159784", "title": "Water politics in the Middle East", "text": "Water politics in the Middle East\n\nWater politics in the Middle East deals with control of the water resources of the Middle East, an arid region where issues of the use, supply, control, and allocation of water are of primary source.\n\nWater politics plays a role in various areas of politics in the Middle East, and it is particularly important in one of the defining features of the region's political landscape. Water issues reflect a central aspect of the nature of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict; namely, the original influx of an additional large population mass to a relatively fragile geographical area of land, and the massive expansion of previously existing populations. Concerns over water have significantly helped to shape the Middle East's political development.\n\nIssues relating to water supplies, then, affect international and inter-regional affairs, with disputes over countries' rights and access to water resources most often the cause of tensions in this arena. The contended nature of some water provisions has tended to mean that certain waters become more prone to political conflicts (those which are primarily prone to this in the Middle East and northern Africa are the Nile, Jordan and Tigris-Euphrates rivers). In order to secure reliable levels of water access for their populations, states must either have a large water supply in terms of economic availability, or their rights to such supplies must be established.\nStudies of water in the Middle East have also suggested that, in a sensitive hydrological location, a country's existing surface- and ground-water access should be protected as a first priority if it is to begin to address any water difficulties or shortages. Such measures as these can be seen as being the primary responsibilities of national governments or ruling authorities; and water is therefore closely tied up with statehood and geographical territory in international relations, and with the recognition and rights of nation states as the central actors in this field.\n\nThe political process and interactions underlying the international relations of water have been characterised as having three stages. These are that a state must go through a process of; firstly claiming its right to water resources, secondly receiving recognition of this right, and finally seeking to attain its entitlement to water in accordance with the recognition of its claim. However, these processes have not always succeeded.\n\nIn this regard, water politics in the Middle East has been impacted by changes in the international political order and their implications for the area. The involvement of the USSR in Middle Eastern political affairs was seen to have had a constraining effect upon this process, in terms of claims and recognition in the Cold War era.\n\nThe post–Cold War period, therefore, has since been perceived to offer the opportunity for transforming water politics in the Middle East, in light of the shift which it has brought about in global political dynamics in the region. This potential, however, had failed to be fulfilled by the end of the decade, with states in the Middle East 'still mainly involved in… asserting water rights over shared waters'. The consequence of this has been that 'non-agreed water sharing is an unavoidable reality in present Middle Eastern international relations', with attendant political problems invariably surfacing.\n\nThe claims over rights to water in the Middle East are centred around the area's three major river systems - the Nile, the River Jordan, and the Tigris-Euphrates river basin. International water agreements in Middle East have been rare, but the situation regarding regional water relations in the three main basins will be explored below.\n\nAs with the other major Middle Eastern river systems, political agreements over access to the water of the Nile have been few and far between. The first such accord was the 1929 Nile Agreement. However, this was an agreement that largely represented the nature of world geopolitical realities at that time, rather than being a mutual expression of accord between the participating parties of the region.\n\nThis, it is argued, is because it was essentially a product of British national interest. The priority of the United Kingdom, as part of its strategy as the dominant contemporary political and economic power in the Middle East, was maintaining secure supplies of water to Egypt, and this was what the agreement primarily provided for.\n\nThe next agreement on water use in the Nile did not come for exactly three more decades. The new 1959 Nile Agreement was signed by Egypt and Sudan, and was at this point free from political influence by the UK. However, the limitation of this agreement was that it was not more than a bilateral treaty between the two participant countries and, as such, it provided solely for an agreement on the sharing of water between the two nations. The 1959 Nile Agreement has not been granted recognition by the other states through which the Nile also runs.\n\nThe countries which rely upon the Tigris-Euphrates water system remain at the first stage of claiming their rights to water. However, the key player in terms of water politics in this area is Turkey, who Allan reports as having \"gone a substantial way to[wards]… what it regards as its water rights by its construction programs on the Euphrates without having them recognized by downstream Syria and Iraq\".\nThis refers to the dams built by Turkey from the 1970s, partially funded by World Bank loans.\n\nThe Syria-Lebanon-Palestine boundary was a product of the post–World War I Anglo-French partition of Ottoman Syria.\nBritish forces had advanced to a position at Tel Hazor against Turkish troops in 1918 and wished to incorporate all the sources of the river Jordan within the British controlled Palestine. Due to the French inability to establish administrative control, the frontier between Syria and Palestine was fluid until 1934, when the French managed to assert authority over the Arab nationalist movement and King Faisal had been deposed.\nIn the unratified Treaty of Sèvres from the San Remo conference, the 1920 boundary extended the British controlled area to north of the Sykes Picot line (straight line between the midpoint of the Sea of Galilee and Nahariya). The international boundary between Palestine and Syria was finally agreed by Great Britain and France in 1923 with the Treaty of Lausanne after Britain had been given a League of Nations mandate for Palestine in 1922. Banyas (on the Quneitre/Tyre road) was within the French Mandate of Syria.\nThe border was set 750 metres south of the spring.\n\nIn 1941 Australian forces occupied Banyas in the advance to the Litani during the Syria-Lebanon Campaign. When Free French and Indian forces invaded Syria in the Battle of Kissoué\nIn 1946, France and Britain signed a bilateral agreement to hand over control of the Banias to the British Mandate authorities although the Syrian government declared France's signature invalid. British Mandate projects to drain the marshland for cultivation angered the Arab villagers.\n\nAfter the establishment of the State of Israel, Syria offered to adjust the armistice lines, and cede to Israel's 70% of the DMZ, in exchange for a return to the pre-1946 border in the Jordan basin area, with Banias water resources returning uncontested to Syrian sovereignty. On 26 April, the Israeli cabinet met to consider the Syrian suggestions; with head of Israel's Water Planning Authority, Simha Blass, in attendance. Blass noted that while the land to be ceded to Syria was not suitable for cultivation, the Syrian map did not suit Israel's water development plan. Blass explained that the movement of the International boundary in the area of Banias would affect Israel's water rights.\n\nOn 13 April, the Syrian delegates seemed very anxious to move forward and offered Israel around 70% of the DMZ's. Significant results were achieved and a number of suggestions and summaries put in writing, but they required decisions by the two governments. The Israeli cabinet convened on 26 April to consider the Syrian proposals. Simha Blass, head of Israel's Water Planning Authority, was invited to the meeting. Dayan showed Blass the Syrian suggestions on the map. Blass told Dayan that although most of the lands that Israel was expected to relinquish were not suitable for cultivation, the map did not suit Israel's irrigation and water development plans. On 4 and 27 May, Israel presented its new conditions. These were rejected by Syria, and the negotiations ended without agreement.\n\nIn 1951 Israel started the Hula Valley Swamps drainage works.\nIn 1953, Israel unilaterally started a water diversion project within the Jordan River basin by the Israeli National Water Carrier.\nIn September 1953 Israel advanced plans to divert water to help irrigate the coastal Sharon Plain and eventually the Negev desert by launching a diversion project on a nine-mile (14 km) channel midway between the Huleh Marshes and Lake Galilee (Lake Tiberias) in the central DMZ to be rapidly constructed. Syria claimed that it would dry up of Syrian land. The UNTSO Chief of Staff Major General Vagn Bennike of Denmark claimed the project would divert water to two Palestinian water mills and dry up Palestinian farmland. UN Security Council Resolution 100\ndeemed it desirable for Israel to suspend work started on 2 September \"pending urgent examination of the question by the Council\". The Security Council ultimately rejected Syrian claims that the work was a violation of the Armistice Agreements. Hula Valley Swamps drainage works were resumed and the work was completed in 1957.\n\nOn 1964 Israel completed its National Water Carrier which siphoned water (within the limits of the Johnston Plan) from the Sea of Galilee. The water was used for irrigation of the southern Negev desert.\n\nIn January 1964 an Arab League summit meeting convened in Cairo. The main item on the agenda was Israel's diversion of water from the north to irrigate the south and the expected reduction in the water supplies available to Syria and Jordan. The preamble to its decision stated that \"the establishment of Israel is the basic threat that the Arab nation in its entirety has agreed to forestall. And since the existence of Israel is a danger that threatens the Arab nation, the diversion of the Jordan waters by it multiplies the dangers to Arab existence. Accordingly, the Arab states have to prepare the plans necessary for dealing with the political, economic and social aspects, so that if necessary results are not achieved, collective Arab military preparations, when they are not completed, will constitute the ultimate practical means for the final liquidation of Israel.\"\n\nThe project was to divert 20 to 30 million cubic metres of water from the river Jordan tributaries to Syria and Jordan for the development of Syria and Jordan.\nThis led to military intervention from Israel, first with tank fire and then, as the Syrians shifted the works further eastward, with airstrikes.\n\nOn 10 June 1967, the last day of the Six Day War, Golani Brigade forces invaded the village of Banyas where a Syrian fort stood. Eshkol's priority on the Syrian front was control of the water sources.\n\nJordan claims it has riparian rights to water from the Jordan basin and upper Jordan tributaries. Due to the water diversion projects, the flow to the river Jordan was reduced from 1,300/1,500 million cubic metres to 250/300 million cubic metres. Water quality was further reduced as the flow of the river Jordan consists run-off from agricultural irrigation and saline springs.\n\nThe agreement between Jordan and Israel is the only one in the Middle East region which has led to the recognition of water rights on both sides. The water agreement forms a part of the broader political treaty which was signed between Israel and Jordan in 1994. In 1999, when the treaty's limitations were revealed by events concerning water shortages in the Jordan basin. A reduced supply of water to Israel due to drought meant that Israel which is responsible for providing water to Jordan, decreased its water provisions to the country, provoking a diplomatic disagreement between the two and bringing the water component of the treaty back into question.\n\nIsrael's complaints about the reduction in water from the tributaries to the river Jordan caused by the Jordan/Syrian dam have gone unheeded.\n\nConstant conflict in the Middle East has seen some major environmental consequences of water related damage. A report by Strategic Foresight Group, a think tank in Asia, details in the damage and destruction done to water systems and resources. The Middle East is an extremely water scarce region and any damage to this vital resource has an adverse impact on health, bio-diversity, and eco-systems in the region. Water scarcity in the future could prove to be both cause and cost of conflict. A new approach to water in the Middle East was introduced by Strategic Foresight Group, in a report co-sponsored by the Swiss and Swedish governments titled The Blue Peace: Rethinking Middle East Water\nBlue Peace is defined as the comprehensive, integrated and collaborative management of all water resources in a circle of countries in a way that is sustainable for the long-term, in an interdependent relationship with social and political dynamics. Instead of concentrating on how to share or divide the stock of water resources, the Blue Peace approach is concerned about preserving, expanding and improving the water budget for the benefit of human life, as well as environment. The Blue Peace is derived from and reinforced by positive relations between water and society and between one society and another. A recent report \"Water Cooperation for a Secure World\" published by Strategic Foresight Group concludes that active water cooperation between countries reduces the risk of war. This conclusion is reached after examining trans-boundary water relations in over 200 shared river basins in 148 countries. Countries in the Middle East face the risk of war as they have avoided regional cooperation for too long. The report provides examples of successful cooperation, which can be used by countries in the Middle East.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13689184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13689184", "title": "Youth suffrage", "text": "Youth suffrage\n\nYouth suffrage, or children's suffrage, is the right of youth to vote and forms part of the broader youth rights movement. Until recently Iran had a voting age of 15; Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Cuba, Ecuador and Nicaragua have a voting age of 16; and Indonesia, East Timor, Sudan, and Seychelles have a voting age of 17.\n\nIn the United States, suffrage originally could not be denied on account of age only to those 21 years of age or older; this age is mentioned in the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Twenty-sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified on July 1, 1971, lowered that age to 18. The primary impetus for this change was the fact that young men were being drafted to fight in the Vietnam War before they were old enough to vote. There have been many proposals to lower the voting age even further. In 2004, California State Senator John Vasconcellos (D-Santa Clara) proposed a youth suffrage constitutional amendment called Training Wheels for Citizenship that would give 14-year-olds a quarter vote, 16-year-olds a half vote, and 17-year-olds a full vote.\n\nIn 2013, Takoma Park, Maryland became the first U.S. city to allow 16- and 17-year-olds the right to vote. On January 5, 2015, Hyattsville, Maryland joined Takoma Park in lowering the voting age to 16.\n\nA proposal to lower the voting age from 18 to 16 was defeated in the Venezuelan constitutional referendum, 2007.\n\n\n\nDemeny voting is the idea that parents would cast votes on behalf of their children thereby ensuring that the interests of children were properly accounted for in the voting system. Most young people do not support themselves financially and are reliant upon parents for support, thus parental voting power should be proportionate to the number of dependents, especially where government benefits are concerned, to appropriately counterbalance the interests of the childless. Essentially, a case for \"no taxation without representation.\" However, as children and their parents often have differing political, social, and economic interests, it is doubtful demeny voting would result in any significant advances of youth interests in government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13068538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13068538", "title": "Échevin (Luxembourg)", "text": "Échevin (Luxembourg)\n\nAn échevin (; ), sometimes translated as alderman, is a member of the administration of a Luxembourgian commune. Together, they form the \"collège échevinal\" (), which helps the mayor run the administration. In most communes, \"échevins\" have designated roles within the administration, adopting separate briefs as in a cabinet.\n\n\"Échevins\" are elected by the commune's council, and represent the make-up of the governing coalition. Formally, \"échevins\" of cities are named by the Grand Duke, whilst those of other communes are named by the Minister for the Interior. \"Échevins\" must be members of the communal council and hold Luxembourgian nationality.\n\nMost communes have two \"échevins\", but more-populous ones are allowed more if granted that right by Grand Ducal decree: communes with 10,000 to 19,999 inhabitants may have 3 \"échevins\", communes with 20,000 or more may have 4 \"échevins\", and Luxembourg City may have up to six.\n\n"}
