{"id": "2013200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2013200", "title": "Alfred Irving Hallowell", "text": "Alfred Irving Hallowell\n\nAlfred Irving \"Pete\" Hallowell (; 1892–1974) was an American anthropologist, archaeologist and businessman. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and attended the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania receiving his B.S. degree in 1914, his A.M. in 1920, and his Ph.D. in anthropology in 1924. He was a student of the anthropologist Frank Speck. From 1927 through 1963 he was a professor of anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania excepting 1944 through 1947 when he taught the subject at Northwestern University. Hallowell's main field of study was Native Americans. He also held the presidency of the American Anthropological Association for a period.\n\nHis students included the anthropologists Melford Spiro, Anthony F. C. Wallace, Raymond D. Fogelson, George W. Stocking, Jr., Regna Darnell, James W. VanStone and Marie-Françoise Guédon.\n\nAfter his retirement, his position was filled by the linguistic anthropologist Dell Hymes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34045039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34045039", "title": "Arts and Humanities in Higher Education", "text": "Arts and Humanities in Higher Education\n\nArts and Humanities in Higher Education is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of education of the arts and humanities. The editor-in-chief is Jan Parker (Open University). It was established in 2002 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the following databases:\n"}
{"id": "57411567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57411567", "title": "Bonnie Gold", "text": "Bonnie Gold\n\nBonnie Gold (born 1948) is an American mathematician, mathematical logician, philosopher of mathematics, and mathematics educator. She is a professor emerita of mathematics at Monmouth University.\n\nGold completed her Ph.D. in 1976 at Cornell University, under the supervision of Michael D. Morley. The research from her dissertation, \"Compact and formula_1-compact formulas in formula_2\",\nwas later published in the journal \"Archiv für Mathematische Logik und Grundlagenforschung\", and concerned infinitary logic.\nShe was the chair of the mathematics department at Wabash College before moving to Monmouth, where she also became department chair.\n\nIn 2012, Gold became the winner of the 22nd Louise Hay Award of the Association for Women in Mathematics for her contributions to mathematics education. The award citation noted her work in educational assessment for undergraduate study in mathematics, which culminated in the publication of an edited volume, \"Assessment Practices in Undergraduate Mathematics\". This book, co-edited with Sandra Z. Keith and William A. Marion, was published by the Mathematical Association of America (MAA) in 1999.\n\nWith Roger A. Simons, Gold is also the editor of another book, \"Proof and Other Dilemmas: Mathematics and Philosophy\" (MAA, 2008). Her essay \"How your philosophy of mathematics impacts your teaching\" was selected for inclusion in \"The Best Writing on Mathematics 2012\". In it, she argues that the philosophy of mathematics affects the teaching of mathematics even when the teacher's philosophical principles are implicit and unexamined.\n\n"}
{"id": "45211150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45211150", "title": "Briarcliff Farms", "text": "Briarcliff Farms\n\nBriarcliff Farms was a farm established in 1890 by Walter William Law in Briarcliff Manor, a village in Westchester County, New York. One of several enterprises established by Law at the turn of the 20th century, the farm was known for its milk, butter, and cream and also produced other dairy products, American Beauty roses, bottled water, and print media. At its height, the farm was one of the largest dairy operations in the Northeastern United States, operating about with over 1,000 Jersey cattle. In 1907, the farm moved to Pine Plains in New York's Dutchess County, and it was purchased by New York banker Oakleigh Thorne in 1918, who developed it into an Angus cattle farm. After Thorne's death in 1948, the farm changed hands several times; in 1968 it became Stockbriar Farm, a beef feeding operation. Stockbriar sold the farmland to its current owners in 1979.\n\nThe farm combined a practical American business model with the concept of a European country seat or manor, with cows being milked constantly, and with milk promptly chilled and bottled within five minutes, and shipped to stores in New York City each night. The farm was progressive, with sterile conditions, numerous employee benefits, good living conditions for livestock, and regular veterinary inspections to maintain a healthy herd. The farm also made use of tenant farming, established working blacksmith, wheelwright, and harness shops on-site, was located around Walter Law's manor house, and constructed numerous buildings in the Tudor Revival architectural style.\n\nBriarcliff Farms was the original location for the School of Practical Agriculture and Horticulture, established by the New York State Committee for the Promotion of Agriculture in conjunction with Walter Law. The school's purpose was to teach students in farming, gardening, poultry-keeping, and other agriculture-related skills. The school moved to a farm near Poughkeepsie in 1903, and the school building was run as a hotel for two years until it became Miss Knox's School. After the building burned down in 1912, Miss Knox's School was relocated several times; since 1954, the Knox School has been located in St. James, New York.\n\nJames Stillman owned a small farm on Pleasantville Road since at least 1886. It was known as Briarcliff Farm after John David Ogilby's estate, Brier Cliff (itself named after Ogilby's family home in Ireland). In 1887 Stillman had a display at the Great Dairy and Cattle Show in New York City's Madison Square Garden, where he demonstrated setting milk, churning cream and making butter. In 1890, Walter Law began purchasing property in the present-day village of Briarcliff Manor as part of his desire for rest and recreation. That year, Law paid James Stillman $35,000 ($ in ) for his farm and renamed it Briarcliff Farms. In 1893, \"The New York Times\" reported that the 14th Duke of Veragua (a livestock farmer) and a large party visited the farm on the afternoon of June 16; at that time, the farm had about 330 cattle and 100 sheep. The party went from New York to Scarborough, proceeding by carriage to Briarcliff, and visited the farm's poultry yard, hennery and stables. After observing the farm's heifers and stallions, they went to the creamery to taste Briarcliff butter. The guests went to Law's Yonkers home, Hillcrest, for dinner before returning to New York. After the visit, the duke had said \"Well, this is a perfect place. I am delighted with what I have seen.\"\n\nIn 1898 Law retired from the vice-presidency of W. & J. Sloane, moved with his family to the area and began devoting his time to agriculture. He rapidly added to his holdings, buying about forty parcels in less than ten years; by 1900, Law owned more than of Westchester County and was its largest individual landholder. Some previous owners became tenant farmers; Law received half of the hay and straw from a farm formerly owned by Jesse Bishop, and one-third of everything else. Law and Briarcliff Farms initially deepened the Pocantico River for , taking out rifts so the stream would flow and adjacent swamps would drain. Workers also cut rock and took out trees lining the swamps to reclaim land for farming.\n\nLaw found the soil poor, since it had been farmed for a half-century. The fields were bare, and cows gave poor-quality milk: \"I had to begin at the bottom and repair the waste of fifty years.\" He improved the soil's fertility by arranging for manure from New York City streets and stables to be regularly brought to his farm; for four years, twenty carloads of manure a week were spread on the land. As a result, the farm's hay yield increased from two to five tons. Law also decided to improve the area's roads, giving them a base layer of large, closely packed stones and layers of top gravel. He developed his herd; at first the farm had weak cattle (many afflicted with tuberculosis) and \"ordinary milk\", but after Law's development the farm had strong cattle, healthy calves and an abundance of rich milk. Law hired Leonard Pearson (a professor of veterinary medicine at the University of Pennsylvania) to check each cow every six months for tuberculosis and other diseases, exceeding New York City Board of Health standards.\nAlthough Law had little knowledge or experience of farming at first, he had enough money to reach his goal of maximizing his dairy farm's quality and output. Law's farm had 500 workers tending cattle, pigs, chickens, Thoroughbred horses, pheasants, peacocks and sheep at its peak. In 1900, when the US government asked Briarcliff Farms to exhibit its milk, butter and cream at Paris' Exposition Universelle, the farm submitted raw, pasteurized, and sterilized milk; however, according to the French, \"There is no use sending these, for your fresh milk keeps fresh\". The farm contributed to the USDA Bureau of Animal Industry and the New York State Commission to the Paris Exhibition's joint exhibit, winning gold medals for its milk, cream, and butter and a silver medal for social benefit or economy. Concerned that the farm's milk had preservatives, French authorities requested an affidavit that no chemicals were added. Photographs by the US government of Briarcliff Farms' barns, farmland, Law's mottoes and employees were displayed in the exposition's Palace of Social Economy and Congress.\n\nOn September 2, 1901, the farm's dairy buildings were destroyed by fire. The cause of the fire (which was discovered in the dairy building's tower) was unknown, and the damage was covered by insurance. Law quickly arranged for a temporary dairy in a room of the electric plant which had a boiler for sterilization; by the afternoon, milk was processed as usual. A larger dairy building was planned closer to the railroad station for faster shipping.\n\nWhen Briarcliff Manor was incorporated on November 21, 1902, Law owned all but two small parcels of the square-mile village and employed nearly all of its residents (around 100). He developed the village, establishing schools, churches, parks and the Briarcliff Lodge. The population grew, encouraging Law to incorporate the area as a village. A proposition was presented to the supervisors of Mount Pleasant and Ossining on October 8, 1902 that a area with a population of 331 be incorporated as the Village of Briarcliff Manor, and it was incorporated on November 21. That year Law's son, Walter Jr., joined his father and brother Henry in managing the farm and realty company; he was the second village president, in office from 1905 to 1918.\n\nIn April 1906, Governor General of Canada Albert Grey and US Representative and farm architect Edward Burnett drove up from New York City and toured the farm as guests of Walter Law. According to \"Briarcliff Outlook\", they \"expressed hearty approval of Briarcliff ways\". \n\nLaw developed his Briarcliff Manor property primarily as a corporation until 1907 when, due to rising property values and falling agricultural development in Westchester County, he purchased twelve farms—totaling —for Briarcliff Farms on both sides of the Pine Plains-Stanford Road (present-day New York State Route 82) in Pine Plains and began developing his Briarcliff Manor properties for houses, churches and schools. Law's general manager, George W. Tuttle (who had worked at Briarcliff Farms since 1901), arranged the Pine Plains purchases and the construction of new barns, a creamery, a power station and other buildings. The barns used Franklin Hiram King's King ventilation system, and the concrete dairy building cost about $25,000 ($ in ). The farm's well, from the barn, was deep and in diameter.\n\nIn 1907 and 1908, the farm and many of its workers moved to Pine Plains. Although preliminary steps in the relocation were primarily small, the final October 1908 transfer used two trains to move 300 cattle. The rest of the cattle were transferred a day later, to the farm's main station (between Pine Plains and Attlebury on the Central New England Railway) at Barn A. During Briarcliff Manor's first automobile race in 1908, the barns were used for mechanic crews and each driver had his own crew weeks before the race. In 1909 Law formed the Briarcliff Realty Company to sell the original Briarcliff Manor property. He sold the Pine Plains property in 1918 and died in 1924.\nOn October 9, 1918, New York banker Oakleigh Thorne and several partners purchased the Briarcliff Farms property, cattle and dairy buildings for $500,000 ($ in ). Thorne began breeding Aberdeen Angus cattle under the Briarcliff Farms name, and the farm remained well known for its beef. Thorne and W. Alan McGregor began the herd by importing cattle from Scotland in 1925, and enlarged it through breeding. The Aberdeen Angus industry became prominent in the United States due to Briarcliff Farms; in 1955, about 95 percent of US Angus cattle were from Briarcliff stock.\n\nThorne hired William Harper Pew for Pew's knowledge of livestock bloodlines. At the time, the farm had over and 1,000 purebred Aberdeen Angus cattle (the largest Aberdeen Angus herd in the country). Pew began eighteen Angus herds in Dutchess County, and was a director of the American Angus Association. At the International Livestock Show in 1927, the farm had the International Grand Champion Female, and in 1930 it had the 1930 International Grand Champion Bull. Because of the 1931 and 1933 expositions, Thorne became first to win a grand champion twice, with two of his livestock awarded International Grand Champion Steers. At the 1934 Dutchess County Fair's beef-cattle show, 100 cattle and steers were exhibited. Briarcliff Aristocrat, a summer yearling weighing , was named the grand champion steer. The grand champion bull was the farm's Briarcliff Barbarian 8th, the first-prize senior yearling of the 1933 International Livestock Show. The grand champion female was Briarcliff Mighonne 10th, the first-prize senior yearling heifer of the 1933 international show.\n\nThe farm affected a number of herds, and the Briarcliff prefix is still seen in many pedigrees. In 1935 the portion of the farm east of the road was sold to Henry Jackson, who named it Bethel Farms. After Thorne's death in 1948, Briarcliff Farms changed hands a number of times. In 1968 it became Stockbriar Farm, a beef-feeding operation. Stockbriar tried to sell the farm several times, and it nearly became a county zoo. In 1979, Stockbriar sold the farmland to the Conservation and Preservation Association (CAPA) for $2.1 million ($ in ).\n\nIn 1982 CAPA hired a Millbrook realtor, who advertised the farm for $2.75 million ($ in ) in \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\" and newspapers published by Taconic Press. Around that time Stockbriar Farms filed four lawsuits against CAPA and its lessee (Mashomack Fish and Game Preserve) over the Pine Plains farm, claiming that the preserve operated a private club without a liquor permit and CAPA missed a March 23, 1982 payment which was the bulk of its total payment for the farm. Stockbriar Farms requested that Mashomack be evicted, and its property returned. One lawsuit was filed in county court, and the other three were filed in New York Supreme Court. Although Mashomack and CAPA won the first two, in 1984 a state supreme court justice ordered Mashomack and CAPA to vacate the property and Stockbriar Farms remained for sale.\n\nThe farm, overlooking the Hudson River, was established between the Hudson and Pocantico Rivers in the hamlet of Whitson's Corners (present-day Briarcliff Manor), from Manhattan. Its location was described in 1901 as \"the most healthy, hilly portion of Westchester ...where there are neither swamps nor contaminated streams of water\". The original land plot, long and wide, was developed within twelve years. In 1901, Briarcliff Farms (including its school farm) encompassed between Pleasantville and Old Briarcliff Roads north of Scarborough Road. At its peak, its original location covered . In Briarcliff Manor, the farm had six main barns: Barn A, near its office building on Pleasantville Road, housed the horses for the farm and the Briarcliff Lodge. The farm's blacksmith, wheelwright, harness shops and other buildings were located around that barn, and a smokehouse and butcher's shop were on-site. Barns B (housing 78 cattle) and C (housing 118 cattle) were at the south end of Dalmeny Road; Barn D (housing 116 cattle), between Beech Hill Road and New York State Route 117, was later used as a boarding stable for horses. Barn E (housing 118 cattle) was on Pleasantville Road just east of the present Taconic State Parkway, and Barn F (housing 118 cattle) was in Millwood near the intersection of the Taconic and New York State Route 100. The farm also had a large barn near New York State Route 9A for supplies, including feed for the farm. Each barn had an ice shed to cool milk; ice was harvested primarily from Echo Lake (source of the Pocantico River), with Kinderogen Lake (now part of the Edith Macy Conference Center) as a supplemental source. The farm had a large supply store, with feed and other items, southeast of the service station at North State and Pleasantville Roads.\n\nThe Briarcliff Farms office, Walter Law's personal office, was also the first dairy building; it burned down in 1901, and was rebuilt the following year. From Briarcliff Manor's 1902 incorporation to the construction of its first municipal building in 1913, the office housed the village government. During the 1960s the building was redesigned, rebuilt and became a local union headquarters for the International Union of Operating Engineers. The farm was enclosed, and its pastures were divided by stone walls from within the farm; the stones were also used for roadbeds, and for walls of the farm buildings, office, and Law's house.\n\nWalter Law encouraged his Briarcliff Farms employees to move into the village, selling or plots of land to workers for a nominal price. He asked workers to choose the type of house they wanted; he would have it built and hold the mortgage, or allow them to rent a cottage. Law built several wood-framed cottages near the farms, with steep front-gable roofs and open porches using some of the first-floor space. Of the cottages still standing, six are on Dalmeny Road and three are on Old Briarcliff Road. The farm also owned and operated a farm in Peekskill previously owned by John Paulding, a militiaman who helped capture British major John André, running the Peekskill farm as a nursery for maples, oaks, lindens, hemlocks, spruces and other trees. During the early 1900s Law purchased farms in Lewisboro and Pound Ridge, using those farms to replenish the main farm's cattle herd. He also purchased a house in Pound Ridge, which his Briarcliff Realty Company sold to Westchester County after his death; it became the headquarters of the Ward Pound Ridge Reservation, the county's largest park.\n\nWalter Law provided Dalmeny, a boarding house on Dalmeny Road, for the farm's single men. The building, modeled after the Mills Houses in New York City, was long and four stories tall. Its first floor had a social hall for meetings and entertainment, a parlor and reading room equipped with books, newspapers, magazines, and games, a large dining room, a private dining room, a kitchen and a bathroom with marble basins and clean towels. The upper floors had seventy individual bedrooms for the men, with bathrooms with showers and tubs on every floor. Dalmeny also had a resident barber. Farm workers were not required to live in the boarding house, although the number of people wanting to live there exceeded the space available. Rent was $15–18 per month, including room, board and laundry. Law frequently joined the men at meals, lecturers visited the boarding house and the farm workers had a performing orchestra, brass band and glee club.\n\nDalmeny opened on Christmas 1899 and closed in July 1908, in conjunction with the farm's relocation to Upstate New York. Over a period of several months in 1909 the building was moved to the Briarcliff Lodge property, where it was adjacent to the Lodge's laundry building. When the Lodge was the campus of King's College from 1955 to 1994, the school called the former boarding house Harmony Hall and used it for classrooms and staff housing. In autumn 1979, King's College demolished the building shortly after dedicating a new classroom building.\n\nBriarcliff Farms' second location, in the town of Pine Plains, initially covered . The farm, from the hamlet of Pine Plains, was adjacent to the Central New England Railway in the shallow Stissing Basin and from the Hudson River. The Pine Plains farm had three barns, each built at a cost of about $20,000 ($ in ) and housing 200 Jersey cattle bedded in sawdust or shavings. Barn B was in the Pine Plains hamlet of Bethel and Barn C was farther south, in the town of Stanford.\n\nThe farm utilized the concept of a European country seat, through tenant farming, established blacksmith, wheelwright, and harness shops on-site, in addition to a butcher shop and smokehouse. Buildings were centrally located around Walter Law's manor house, many of which were constructed in the Tudor Revival style. The farm's office building, Dysart House, the Briarcliff Lodge, and the railroad station shared that architectural style.\n\nThe farm, one of the first producers of certified milk in the US, operated under the supervision of the Milk Commission of the Medical Society of the County of New York. With the farm producing about of milk daily (an average of per cow per day), Briarcliff Farms was one of the largest dairy operations in the northeast. According to Nebraska's department of agriculture in 1903, the three largest owners of dairy cows in the eastern US were Fairfield Farm Dairy in New Jersey, Briarcliff Farms and the Walker-Gordon Laboratory Company (which had \"branches in all of the principal cities\"). In 1897 the farm had Jersey, Normande and Simmental cattle, selling the breeds' milk for 10, 12 and 15 cents per quart respectively. Briarcliff Farms also sold cream (with 50 percent butterfat) for 60 cents per quart, Jersey butter for 50 cents per pound and Normande or Simmental butter for 60 cents per pound. In 1909, half the farm's herd consisted of registered Jerseys and the other half high-grade Jerseys. In Pine Plains, many of Barn B's milkers were from the Netherlands because of that country's reputation for good milkers.\n\nIn 1905, Briarcliff Farms was milking nearly 500 cows at any given time. The farm raised its own stock, feeding the cattle eight pounds of dry feed twice a day with pasture and green corn in summer. The feed mixture was 50 percent bran, 25 percent crushed oats and 25 percent cornmeal, all of which were claimed to be the best available. The farm required that each cow produce 6,000 pounds of milk with 5 percent butterfat or 5,000 pounds of milk with 6 percent butterfat, or she would be butchered or sold. Each cow ate an average of seven pounds of grain per day (varying from two pounds on pasture to 12 in winter), 1.5 to 2 pounds of oil meal each day and free-choice timothy and clover hay— daily, depending on size. Each worker milked, cleaned and groomed 16 to 18 cattle daily. The New York Milk Commission analyzed the farm's milk weekly; although the board of health regulations in New York allowed three million bacteria per cubic centimeter in milk, the milk commission limited bacteria to 30,000. The farm chilled its milk within two minutes of milking to , often limiting its bacteria counts to 200–400 per cc. A chemical analysis of the milk was performed every month; although regulations required a minimum of three percent butterfat, Briarcliff required its milk to have over five percent butterfat to be sold. A March 1905 New York Milk Commission analysis indicated that the farm's milk had 8.2 percent butterfat, the \"richest Briarcliff product ever reported on\".\n\nIn 1901 the farm had 1,045 Jersey cattle, 4,000 chickens and ducks, 1,500 pigs, and 400 sheep. It grew, with 500 workers tending those animals in addition to Thoroughbred horses, pheasants and peacocks. The pigs (which included Chester Whites and Berkshires) lived outdoors, because the farm superintendent believed they should be penned only for breeding; in summer, they were allowed to run in the orchards or the woods. About 2,000 were butchered each year. The farm's 31 poultry houses had a head poulterer and 40 assistants; each building was , and they were spread around the property. The farm, which used 300-egg insulators, fed the hens a mix of grains (including oats, wheat and corn) five times a day. The farm butchered 7,000 broilers each season. Eggs sold for 35 to 50 cents per dozen, with demand exceeding supply. Broilers sold for $1.50 ($ in ) to $3.00 ($ in ) per pair. Briarcliff Farms raised about 300 lambs each spring, primarily Dorset Horns. The lambs, which were dressed (their internal organs removed) on the farm, sold for $12 ($ in ) or more apiece; demand also exceeded supply.\n\nThe farm gardens grew a variety of crops, adapting to the market; in 1900 this included oats, rye, corn, wheat, buckwheat, carrots, mangolds, turnips, rutabagas, radishes, sugar beets, potatoes, apples, cabbages, rye, oat, and wheat straw, hay, corn stalks and silage. The farm rotated its grain production to grow better vegetables. At one time the farm had of asparagus, which sold for 35 to 50 cents per bunch.\n\nBriarcliff Farms operated a printing press and office north of the farm office on Pleasantville Road. The print shop produced \"Briarcliff Farms\", the \"Briarcliff Bulletin\" in 1900, the monthly \"Briarcliff Outlook\" in 1903 and \"The Briarcliff Once-a-Week\" in 1908 (all edited by Arthur W. Emerson) and bottle caps for Briarcliff dairy products. The Briarcliff Table Water Company sold its products in New York City, Lakewood, New Jersey and the Westchester municipalities of Yonkers, Tarrytown, White Plains, and Ossining. The company owned wells. Around 1901, the Briarcliff Steamer Company No. 1 (later the Briarcliff Manor Fire Department) housed its equipment and horses at Briarcliff Farms' Barn A. The American Plasmon Syndicate, a producer of the dried milk product plasmon, had its factory in Briarcliff for milk from Briarcliff Farms; the farm built the factory and its power plant.\n\nIn a 1900 publication the farm's motto was reported to be \"The production of pure food of the highest standard of excellence\", although a 1902 publication reported that its motto was \"Do unto a cow as you would that a cow would do unto you\" (also saying that the motto appeared in large letters in every barn on the farm). Notices printed by the farm began with the verse, \"If a Cobbler by trade, I'll make it my pride, the best of all Cobblers to be; and if only a Tinker, no Tinker on earth shall mend an old Kettle like me\"; this verse and several other mottoes decorated friezes on the interior walls of the Dalmeny boarding house.\n\nAt its peak, the farm delivered milk to areas from Albany to New York City. After it was cooled, the milk was brought daily to the dairy-processing building, where it was poured into a large, sterilized tank and forced—with compressed air at per minute—through sterilized pipes to the building's second floor. There the milk was cooled, strained five times and bottled. The bottles were sealed with parchment circles with the supervising commission's certification and the date, and then put in boxes with ice. The entire process, from entering the building to bottling, took five minutes. Every utensil contacting the milk (or workers) would be regularly sterilized with live steam. The building was as free of bacteria as the farm could make it; its rooms had white-tiled walls and floors, with coving (concave tiling) between the walls and floors for better cleaning. Milk bottles were reused after several cleanings with rotating wire brushes and two hours of heat sterilization.\nThe farm's products were packaged as milk, cream, butter or kumyss, and sent every night on the New York and Putnam Railroad to New York City for delivery the next day; they were also sold in the farm's stores or from wagons. Briarcliff Farms had three stores in New York City and stores in Greenwich, Connecticut, Yonkers, Dobbs Ferry and Tarrytown. The farm's first New York City store was in Manhattan's Windsor Arcade, at Fifth Avenue and 46th Street, and it had an office in the Seymour Building at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street. The office produced advertisements for the \"New-York Tribune\", \"The New York Times\", \"New York Evening Post\" and the \"Mail and Express\" (papers which, according to \"Printers' Ink\", advertised to wealthy residents). The farm's stores sold Briarcliff dairy products and table water. Milk was sent to the Hotel Lorraine, the St. Regis, the Waldorf Astoria, Mendel's Lunch Room at Grand Central Station and Milhau's Drug Store on Broadway, and kumyss was sent to seventeen New York City drugstores. Milk was sold to stores in New York free on board for $0.084 ($ in ) per quart. The farm also supplied the Briarcliff Lodge with cream, milk, butter, eggs and vegetables. It shipped its products in zinc-lined cases on ocean-going steamers and shipped nationwide every day except Sunday (shipping a double order on Saturday). The farm's milk was processed into milk, cheese, butter or buttermilk at its Barn A creamery in Pine Plains, and packaged for its rail shipment to New York City.\n\nIn 1906, Andrew Carnegie wrote about Briarcliff Farms: \"Every known appliance or mode of treatment is at hand, and the herd is pronounced free from all and every ailment. In cases of doubt animals are sacrificed\". The farm used the best obtainable stock, with extensive experimenting, for its products. The operation immediately removed every cow that appeared ill, and many cattle were butchered during the farm's first few years to improve the herd's overall health. According to Walter Law, \"It is not the cows that have been put in, but those which have been taken out, that have made the Briarcliff herd what it is\". The farm's large, light barns had concrete floors, which were cleaned daily, and up-to-date appliances for separating, churning, handling and packing its products.\n\nLaw made annual five-dollar cash awards ($ in ) to workers in September (giving them out at Dalmeny on December 24), which included \"most gentle with cows\", \"most careful teamster in feeding his horses and keeping his stables clean\", \"cleanest delivery wagon\", \"neatest house yard\", \"best garden truck\" and \"best-kept room in Dalmeny\"; the farm emphasized the commercial value of such virtues. On Christmas Eve, after the Briarcliff Orchestra played George Frideric Handel's \"Largo\", Law spoke about the farm's improvements that year and awarded the prizes. The orchestra was made up of the farm's workers, and among its members was Law's son Walter Jr.\nBriarcliff Farms intended to prove that optimal farming practices could be profitable. Law believed that kind treatment would produce better cattle, and was intolerant of animal abuse: \"Cruelty to a cow is the same as cruelty to me, and shall never be permitted on this farm.\" He knew everyone who lived at the farms, and the farm workers knew the name of each cow (which was on a brass plate at the front of the cow's stall). The cows were sponged several times a day, and workers wore white cotton suits which were sterilized daily by boiling. Law treated his workers as intelligent co-workers, rather than laborers. Each cow was groomed before milking, and a pail of warm water and a brush would then be used on her sides, flanks and udders. The flank and udder were washed again with a one-percent creolin solution, rinsed and dried. Workers would milk into a fine wire strainer placed over a pail; during milking no talking, laughing, smoking or spitting was permitted, since such behavior was claimed to have a \"perceptible effect upon their milk\". The workers were required to wash their hands thoroughly after cleaning the udders and before milking each cow. Each worker had a set of towels and washed, cared for and milked 15 or 16 cows. The cattle grazed from early spring until late autumn, and were in the barns only for milking. In 1901, \"The Trained Nurse and Hospital Review\" said it doubted that any other large New York-area dairy did this.\n\nThe farm had a veterinary chemist and a laboratory for regular milk analysis. Its dairy plant had a visitor-observation area, permitting the viewing of each step of the farm's dairy processing. In one room (separated from the viewing area by glass doors), cream was skimmed; in a second milk was bottled, and in a third butter was churned. The building's sterilizing, pasteurizing, and shipping departments were in the basement. Briarcliff Farms shipped of milk, of cream and of butter each day. Students from the Ethical Culture School and nurses from New York City hospitals visited the farm to learn about its practices in relation to their work, and Briarcliff Farms was reportedly chosen as the most typical New York industry available for inspection.\n\nAlthough Briarcliff Farms' primary operation was dairy, a secondary agricultural product was its American Beauty rose. The farm had two groups of greenhouses; one, behind Walter Law's house and west of the Briarcliff Lodge, produced decorations for Briarcliff Farms, the Briarcliff Lodge and Law's and his workers' houses. The other group, the Pierson commercial greenhouses, grew the American Beauty rose and rare carnations; it produced 22 varieties and about 2,500 blooms a day. The greenhouses, advanced for their time, had light steel frames and glass panes unique in their \"almost unshadowed exposure to the light\". The newer greenhouses, , held up to 40,000 plants apiece. The Pierson roses, which earned up to $100,000 ($ in ) a year, were sold in winter for eight to 12 cents each with most shipped to New York City. The Briarcliff Lodge sponsored an annual American Beauty carnival with a golf tournament, water sports, moonlight bathing and night diving, a dinner dance, a cinema program and a concert.\n\nGreenhouse foreman George Romaine propagated an American Beauty rose with longer, more-pointed buds and a brighter color, and Paul M. Pierson registered it with the American Rose Society as the Briarcliff Rose. It is Briarcliff Manor's village symbol, and since 2006 has been used on village street signs. Although the Briarcliff Manor Garden Club also uses the Briarcliff Rose as its symbol, the variety is now lost.\n\nDuring the winter of 1895-96, the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor researched the causes of youth moving from the country to cities to develop the most efficient method of attracting them back to the country. That, and an examination of agricultural needs for a year, resulted in meetings at the homes of Abram S. Hewitt and R. Fulton Cutting and the formation of the New York State Committee for the Promotion of Agriculture. The committee, chaired by Hewitt, included Cutting, Jacob H. Schiff, John G. Carlisle, Mrs. Seth Low, Josephine Shaw Lowell, Walter Law and William E. Dodge. Its board of trustees had five officers (with Theodore L. Van Norden president) and seventeen other trustees, including Law, V. Everit Macy and James Speyer. George T. Powell, a \"recognized authority on scientific agriculture\" according to \"The New York Times\", was consulted; he later organized the school and became its director. When Walter Law was included the school took shape, since he provided its land and building. In September 1900, Law and the committee established the School of Practical Agriculture and Horticulture as part of Briarcliff Farms, on an elevated site about midway between the Briarcliff Manor and Pleasantville train stations on Pleasantville Road. Law leased the 66 acres (which were worth $1,000 ($ in ) an acre) for 20 years at the rate of a dollar per year, gave the trustees $30,000 ($ in ) to build a dormitory and promised them $3,000 ($ in ) a year for expenses until the school earned a profit. With that and $30,000 from the trustees, the school opened; the committee focused the curriculum on horticulture, floriculture, gardening and aviculture. The school's progress was followed by members of the public interested in agricultural education.\n\nWhen it was founded, the school was considered an experiment. Its goal was \"to open an independent means of livelihood for young men and women, especially of our cities; to demonstrate that higher values may be obtained from land under intelligent management, and to develop a taste for rural life.\" Most students were trained in garden and farm operations in a two-year course, with short summer courses in nature study also offered. The academic year had three terms, with twelve weeks of vacation. Although the school allowed new students to begin at any term, a September start was considered the most desirable. Instruction was offered in agriculture, horticulture, cold storage, botany, chemistry, geology, physics, agricultural zoology, entomology, beekeeping, meteorology, land surveying and leveling, soils, drainage, irrigation, tillage, fertilizers, plant diseases, stock, fruit growing, landscape gardening and bookkeeping. It was a practical school, with no attempt to provide a general education. Work included caring for orchard trees and bush fruit, greenhouse culture of fruits and vegetables, jelly- and jam-making, market gardening, tillage, fertilizer use, hybridizing and propagating flowers, harvesting and marketing crops. The school used Briarcliff Farms, where students worked the land, tested milk and cared for a variety of animals. Students also raised flowers, vegetables and fruit, and accompanied their products to cities for marketing. The New York Botanical Garden arranged with the school for student access to its lectures, museums and conservatories. Tuition was $100 a year ($ in ), and board $280 a year ($ in ). Instruction was primarily weekday-morning lectures with laboratory work; during the afternoon, students worked on the school farm (which had a foreman, gardener and several workmen to ensure continuous operation) under instructor supervision. In 1901 35 students attended, followed by 34 in 1902 (almost all from cities), ranging in age from 16 to 35. Most had a high-school education before enrolling, and some had been to college. The school had a capacity of 35 students, and planned to expand.\n\nFor one year it met in the basement of Pleasantville's public school (until the Briarcliff Farms building was completed), and did not provide housing. The farm building was completed in spring 1901 and dedicated on May 15. The large Colonial Revival building, with a plain exterior and wide halls, had lecture halls, a library, a laboratory, an office, a dining hall and dormitory space for 40 staff members and students. Its grounds had an orchard, a working garden, experimental greenhouses, poultry houses, a farmhouse and barns. The school's faculty included a director, a horticulturalist, an agriculturalist and instructors in nature study and cold storage. It was coeducational, with identical courses for men and women. Students were required to be proficient in English, provide good references, be at least 16 years of age, and be in good health. On January 1, 1902 Henry Francis du Pont, then in his third year at Harvard University, wrote to Powell requesting admission to the school; Powell replied that DuPont was listed first in the school's 1903 class. However, DuPont was unable to attend and left Harvard (perhaps due to his mother's sudden death in autumn 1902).\n\nThe school outgrew its Briarcliff location, and in autumn 1902 R. Fulton Cutting purchased a farm near Poughkeepsie as a permanent upstate location. Prior to the move, the school was popularly known as the Briarcliff School, and after moving it became formally known as the School of Practical Agriculture at Poughkeepsie. When the school was established there, Theodore Van Norden said that it needed funds for equipment and an endowment. The land had no buildings, and thus the school rented two houses in Poughkeepsie until funds were obtained to build. It initially hoped to raise one million dollars; in 1903, after raising $50,000 ($ in ) of a hoped-for $150,000 ($ in ) to operate the school, director George Powell announced that it would close and the property would be sold. Cutting presented a plan to the New Hampshire College of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts to carry out the plan devised for the school in Poughkeepsie. In 1908, school funds were donated to Cornell University as the Agricultural Student Loan Fund for students in Cornell's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.\n\nFrom 1903 to 1905 the original school building was known as Pocantico Lodge, a small year-round hotel. In 1905 Alice Knox, an employee at Mrs. Dow's School, opened Miss Knox's School in the building. Destroyed by fire in 1912, the school moved to nearby Tarrytown and then to Cooperstown. The Knox School moved to St. James, on Long Island, in 1954. The only remaining feature of the Pocantico Lodge building is a stone retaining wall in front of the current building on the site, built in 1925 by Oscar Vatet for Rufus P. Johnston (pastor of John D. Rockefeller's Fifth Avenue Baptist Church). The building, later occupied by Arthur O'Connor, Cognitronics, and Frank B. Hall, is currently an unused part of Briarcliff Corporate Campus.\n\nMost of the Pine Plains farmland is occupied by Berkshire Stud, a Thoroughbred breeding farm which purchased beginning in 1983, and the Mashomack Polo Club (which owns the farmhouse on Halcyon Lake). The farm's creamery and several barns (some built during the 19th century) still stand at the polo club, and have been used since the 1980s for stables, farm-equipment storage and the raising of sporting birds. The barns also housed the Triangle Arts Association (part of the Triangle Arts Trust) from 1982 to 1993.\n\nIn Briarcliff Manor, part of the original Stillman farmhouse survives as the rectory of St. Theresa's Catholic Church and several employee wood-framed cottages still stand on Dalmeny and Old Briarcliff Roads. Similar houses are on South State, Pleasantville, and Poplar Roads. The farm's dairy building is owned by Consolidated Edison; the company also owns a nearby building which formerly housed the Briarcliff Manor Light and Power Company. The Plasmon Company of America's Woodside Avenue factory is now an automotive restoration facility.\n"}
{"id": "8884846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884846", "title": "Brookhouse School", "text": "Brookhouse School\n\nBrookhouse School (also known as Brookhouse International School) is an independent British curriculum co-educational day and boarding school offering Early Years, preparatory and secondary schooling. It is located in Langata, a suburb of Nairobi, about from the Nairobi's CBD. The school was opened in 1981 and caters for pupils from pre-school to A-level, with an overall enrolment of 750 students. The campus occupies a site, adjacent to the Nairobi National Park.\n\nBrookhouse follows the British National Curriculum and students take IGCSE and A-Level at 16+ and 18+, respectively. Students take examinations through both the Cambridge International Examinations (CIE) and Edexcel Boards.\n\nMost students elect to continue their education at UK universities, with an increasing number of students going to the USA, Canada, Australia and South Africa for post-secondary education. The school offers English as a Second Language (ESL) and Special Needs support.\n\nThe academic year begins in late August for Term 1. Entry to the school is preferable at that time but students may be accepted at any time in the year. Acceptance follows an evaluation of the child's previous academic record. Entry assessment tests are used to assist in the placement process.\n\nAll admissions to Brookhouse School are made through a senior member of staff. When seeking admission, prospective students are requested to provide copies of previous school reports, academic transcripts, and where applicable, a Leaving Certificate. Where practicable, prospective students will also be interviewed and may be asked to sit an entrance placement examination. A student will only be admitted to Brookhouse if it is considered that they will benefit from the curriculum offered and if they are prepared to contribute positively to the life of the school.\nStudents come from 40 different countries.\n\n\nBrookhouse School follows an adapted form of the British National Curriculum. The Early Years Unit caters for children aged 2–5 years, providing a carefully planned induction to the British National Curriculum. Throughout the Preparatory School up to and including Year Eight students study the set national curriculum subjects, including Mathematics, English, Science, Geography, History, Art, Physical Education, Music, a modern Foreign Language and information and communications technology (ICT).\n\nThe Secondary section of the school commences with the one year Pre-IGCSE Year 9 programme, leading to the two years of the IGCSE course during Year's 10 and 11. Upon successful completion of the IGCSE examinations pupils can progress to take their AS and A-level courses in Year's 12 and 13, before moving on to universities across the globe.\n\nThe school also offers an international foundation year (IFY) bridging programme in partnership with the Northern Consortium of UK Universities (NCUK) and specialist vocational Business and Technician Education Council (BTEC) courses in Music, Music Technology and Art & Design.\n\nBrookhouse School offers an extensive programme of extra-curricular activities, including a wide range of sports and trips. Examples of activities regularly offered at Brookhouse are:\n\nRound Square is a worldwide association of schools sharing unique and ambitious goals. Students attending Round Square schools on five continents. They make a strong commitment, beyond academic excellence, to personal development and responsibility. This is achieved by participating in community service, work projects, exchange programmes and outdoor adventure activities.\n\nBrookhouse is a global member of the Round Square organisation. The school participates in student exchanges with other Round Square schools around the globe, attends Round Square conferences in different parts of the world, and participates in Round Square International Service (RSIS) projects.\n\nIn April 2012 Brookhouse School hosted the international Round Square conference.\n\nThe main sporting activities at Brookhouse include:\n\n\nThese sports are spread across the three terms of the school year. Contact with other independent schools in Kenya is maintained by means of a full fixture list of inter-school matches in all the major sports at different age levels. In addition there is active participation in tournaments, competitions, festivals, leagues and exhibitions. There are Inter-House competitions in cross-country, athletics, basketball, rounders, soccer, netball, rugby and swimming. The extensive fitness centre allows opportunities for general fitness in the gym, aerobics sessions and weights training.\n\nThe school was selected for review by the Good Schools Guide International and is a member of the prestigious G20 Schools. The school is fully accredited by the Council of International Schools (CIS) and the Independent Association of Preparatory Schools (IAPS).\n\nThe Brookhouse community (alumni and staff) includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "42482299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42482299", "title": "Brooklyn Visual Heritage", "text": "Brooklyn Visual Heritage\n\nBrooklyn Visual Heritage is an online digital history website resource produced by Project CHART, presenting historical 19th and 20th century photographs of Brooklyn, New York City, held by several cultural institutions.\n\nProject CHART was a collaboration between the Pratt Institute (School of Information and Library Science), Brooklyn Historical Society, Brooklyn Public Library, and Brooklyn Museum. The three-year project was funded by the US Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) and the Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program. The website was launched publicly in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40215972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40215972", "title": "Canal Educativo", "text": "Canal Educativo\n\nCanal Educativo is a Cuban television channel devoted to educational programming. Operated by the ICRT, it began operations on 9 May 2002.\n\nPrior to the establishment of Canal Educativo, there was no designated home for educational programming among Cuba's national television portfolio. The establishment of this network enabled the delivery of telecourses and the use of school hours to broadcast content. Canal Educativo covers 87.9% of the Cuban population.\n\nIn 2004, a second network, Canal Educativo 2 (currently abbreviated ce2 on air), was launched.\n\nCanal Educativo's programming includes telecourses, documentaries, historical programs, and arts programming including opera, ballet and musical performances. It also reportedly airs cartoons such as \"SpongeBob SquarePants\".\n"}
{"id": "49518304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49518304", "title": "Centre for Research and Action for Peace", "text": "Centre for Research and Action for Peace\n\nCentre for Research and Action for Peace (CERAP) (\"Centre de Recherche et d'Action pour la Paix\"), Ivory Coast, began as the African Institute for Economic and Social Development (INADES), with its early focus on agricultural training. In 2003, INADES expanded and changed its name to CERAP. \n\nThe CERAP was established in 1962 at the request of the Catholic bishops of West Africa to develop a center of Christian reflection on socio-economic development, with the cooperation of a similar center in France (CERAS), and with the encouragement of political leaders in the Ivory Coast including President Félix Houphouët-Boigny.\n\nOn 9 May 2003, INADES changed its name to CERAP, Centre for Research and Action for Peace, and reorganized into four branches:\n"}
{"id": "7612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7612", "title": "Christopher Alexander", "text": "Christopher Alexander\n\nChristopher Wolfgang Alexander (born 4 October 1936 in Vienna, Austria) is a widely influential architect and design theorist, and currently emeritus professor at the University of California, Berkeley. His theories about the nature of human-centered design have affected fields beyond architecture, including urban design, software, sociology and others. Alexander has designed and personally built over 100 buildings, both as an architect and a general contractor.\n\nIn software, Alexander is regarded as the father of the pattern language movement. The first wiki—the technology behind Wikipedia—led directly from Alexander's work, according to its creator, Ward Cunningham. Alexander's work has also influenced the development of agile software development.\n\nIn architecture, Alexander's work is used by a number of different contemporary architectural communities of practice, including the New Urbanist movement, to help people to reclaim control over their own built environment. However, Alexander is controversial among some mainstream architects and critics, in part because his work is often harshly critical of much of contemporary architectural theory and practice.\n\nAlexander is known for many books on the design and building process, including \"Notes on the Synthesis of Form, A City is Not a Tree\" (first published as a paper and recently re-published in book form), \"The Timeless Way of Building, A New Theory of Urban Design,\" and \"The Oregon Experiment.\" More recently he published the four-volume \"The Nature of Order: An Essay on the Art of Building and the Nature of the Universe,\" about his newer theories of \"morphogenetic\" processes, and \"The Battle for the Life and Beauty of the Earth\", about the implementation of his theories in a large building project in Japan. All his works are developed or accumulated from his previous works, so his works should be read as a whole rather than fragmented pieces. His life's work or the best of his works is The Nature of Order on which he spent about 30 years, and the very first version of The Nature of Order was done in 1981, one year before this famous debate with Peter Eisenman in Harvard.\n\nAlexander is perhaps best known for his 1977 book \"A Pattern Language,\" a perennial seller some four decades after publication. Reasoning that users are more sensitive to their needs than any architect could be, he produced and validated (in collaboration with his students Sara Ishikawa, Murray Silverstein, Max Jacobson, Ingrid King, and Shlomo Angel) a \"pattern language\" to empower anyone to design and build at any scale.\n\nAs a young child Alexander emigrated in fall 1938 with his parents from Austria to England, when his parents were forced to flee the Nazi regime. He spent much of his childhood in Chichester and Oxford, England, where he began his education in the sciences. He moved from England to the United States in 1958 to study at Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He moved to Berkeley, California in 1963 to accept an appointment as Professor of Architecture, a position he would hold for almost 40 years. In 2002, after his retirement, Alexander moved to Arundel, England, where he continues to write, teach and build. Alexander is married to Margaret Moore Alexander, and he has two daughters, Sophie and Lily, by his former wife Pamela.\n\nAlexander attended Oundle School, England. In 1954, he was awarded the top open scholarship to Trinity College, Cambridge University in chemistry and physics, and went on to read mathematics. He earned a Bachelor's degree in Architecture and a Master's degree in Mathematics. He took his doctorate at Harvard (the first Ph.D. in Architecture ever awarded at Harvard University), and was elected fellow at Harvard. During the same period he worked at MIT in transportation theory and computer science, and worked at Harvard in cognition and cognitive studies.\n\nAlexander was elected to the Society of Fellows, Harvard University 1961-64; awarded the First Medal for Research by the American Institute of Architects, 1972; elected member of the Swedish Royal Academy, 1980; winner of the Best Building in Japan award, 1985; winner of the ACSA (Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture) Distinguished Professor Award, 1986 and 1987; invited to present the Louis Kahn Memorial Lecture, 1992; awarded the Seaside Prize, 1994; elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1996; one of the two inaugural recipients of the Athena Award, given by the Congress for the New Urbanism (CNU), 2006;. awarded (\"in absentia\") the Vincent Scully Prize by the National Building Museum, 2009; awarded the lifetime achievement award by the Urban Design Group, 2011; winner of the Global Award for Sustainable Architecture, 2014.\n\n\"The Timeless Way of Building\" (1979) described the perfection of use to which buildings could aspire:\n\n\"A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction\" (1977) described a practical architectural system in a form that a theoretical mathematician or computer scientist might call a generative grammar.\n\nThe work originated from an observation that many medieval cities are attractive and harmonious. The authors said that this occurs because they were built to local regulations that required specific features, but freed the architect to adapt them to particular situations.\n\nThe book provides rules and pictures, and leaves decisions to be taken from the precise environment of the project. It describes exact methods for constructing practical, safe and attractive designs at every scale, from entire regions, through cities, neighborhoods, gardens, buildings, rooms, built-in furniture, and fixtures down to the level of doorknobs.\n\nA notable value is that the architectural system consists only of classic patterns tested in the real world and reviewed by multiple architects for beauty and practicality.\n\nThe book includes all needed surveying and structural calculations, and a novel simplified building system that copes with regional shortages of wood and steel, uses easily stored inexpensive materials, and produces long-lasting classic buildings with small amounts of materials, design and labor. It first has users prototype a structure on-site in temporary materials. Once accepted, these are finished by filling them with very-low-density concrete. It uses vaulted construction to build as high as three stories, permitting very high densities.\n\nThis book's method was adopted by the University of Oregon, as described in \"The Oregon Experiment\" (1975), and remains the official planning instrument. It has also been adopted in part by some cities as a building code.\n\nThe idea of a pattern language appears to apply to any complex engineering task, and has been applied to some of them. It has been especially influential in software engineering where patterns have been used to document collective knowledge in the field.\n\n\"A New Theory of Urban Design\" (1987) coincided with a renewal of interest in urbanism among architects, but stood apart from most other expressions of this by assuming a distinctly anti-masterplanning stance. An account of a design studio conducted with Berkeley students on a site in San Francisco, it shows how convincing urban networks can be generated by requiring individual actors to respect only \"local\" rules, in relation to neighbours. A vastly undervalued part of the Alexander canon, \"A New Theory\" is important in understanding the generative processes which give rise to the shanty towns latterly championed by Stewart Brand, Robert Neuwirth, and the Prince of Wales. There have been critical reconstructions of Alexander's design studio based on the theories put forward in \"A New Theory of Urban Design\".\n\n\"The Nature of Order: An Essay on the Art of Building and the Nature of the Universe\" (2003–04), which includes The \"Phenomenon of Life\", \"The Process of Creating Life\", \"A Vision of a Living World\" and \"The Luminous Ground\", is Alexander's most comprehensive and elaborate work. In it, he puts forth a new theory about the nature of space and describes how this theory influences thinking about architecture, building, planning, and the way in which we view the world in general. The mostly static patterns from \"A Pattern Language\" have been amended by more dynamic sequences, which describe how to work towards patterns (which can roughly be seen as the end result of sequences). Sequences, like patterns, promise to be tools of wider scope than building (just as his theory of space goes beyond architecture).\n\nThe online publication \"Katarxis 3\" (September 2004) includes several essays by Christopher Alexander, as well as the legendary debate between Alexander and Peter Eisenman from 1982.\n\nAlexander's latest book, \"The Battle for the Life and Beauty of the Earth: A Struggle Between Two World-Systems\" (2012), is the story of the largest project he and his colleagues had ever tackled, the construction of a new High School/College campus in Japan. He also uses the project to connect with themes in his four-volume series. He contrasts his approach, (System A) with the construction processes endemic in the US and Japanese economies (System B). As Alexander describes it, System A is focused on enhancing the life/spirit of spaces within given constraints (land, budget, client needs, etc.) (drawings are sketches - decisions on placing buildings, materials used, finish and such are made in the field as construction proceeds, with adjustments as needed to meet overall budget); System B ignores, and tends to diminish or destroy that quality (architect responsible for drawings which the builder uses to build structures at the lowest possible cost). In the last few chapters he describes \"centers\" as a way of thinking about the connections among spaces, and about what brings more wholeness and life to a space.\n\nAmong Alexander's most notable built works are the Eishin Campus near Tokyo (the building process of which is outlined in his 2012 book \"The Battle for the Life and Beauty of the Earth\"); the West Dean Visitors Centre in West Sussex, England; the Julian Street Inn (a homeless shelter) in San Jose, California (both described in \"Nature of Order\"); the Sala House and the Martinez House (experimental houses in Albany and Martinez, California made of lightweight concrete); the low-cost housing in Mexicali, Mexico (described in \"The Production of Houses\"); and several private houses (described and illustrated in \"The Nature of Order\"). Alexander's built work is characterized by a special quality (which he used to call \"the quality without a name\", but named \"wholeness\" in \"Nature of Order\") that relates to human beings and induces feelings of belonging to the place and structure. This quality is found in the most loved traditional and historic buildings and urban spaces, and is precisely what Alexander has tried to capture with his sophisticated mathematical design theories. Paradoxically, achieving this connective human quality has also moved his buildings away from the abstract imageability valued in contemporary architecture, and this is one reason why his buildings are under-appreciated at present.\n\nHis former student and colleague Michael Mehaffy wrote an introductory essay on Alexander's built work in the online publication \"Katarxis 3\", which includes a gallery of Alexander's major built projects through September 2004.\n\nIn addition to his lengthy teaching career as a Professor at UC Berkeley (during which a number of international students began to appreciate and apply his methods), Alexander was a key faculty member at both The Prince of Wales's Summer Schools in Civil Architecture (1990–1994) and The Prince's Foundation for the Built Environment. He also initiated the process which led to the international Building Beauty post-graduate school for architecture, which launched in Sorrento, Italy for the 2017-18 academic year.\n\nAlexander's work has widely influenced architects; among those who acknowledge his influence are Sarah Susanka, Andres Duany, and Witold Rybczynski. Robert Campbell, the Pulitzer Prize-winning architecture critic for the \"Boston Globe\", stated that Alexander \"has had an enormous critical influence on my life and work, and I think that's true of a whole generation of people.\"\n\nArchitecture critic Peter Buchanan, in an essay for \"The Architectural Review\"s 2012 campaign \"The Big Rethink\", argues that Alexander's work as reflected in \"A Pattern Language\" is \"thoroughly subversive and forward looking rather than regressive, as so many misunderstand it to be.\" He continues:\nMany urban development projects continue to incorporate Alexander's ideas. For example, in the UK the developers Living Villages have been highly influenced by Alexander's work and used \"A Pattern Language\" as the basis for the design of The Wintles in Bishops Castle, Shropshire. Sarah Susanka's \"Not So Big House\" movement adapts and popularizes Alexander's patterns and outlook.\n\nAlexander's \"Notes on the Synthesis of Form\" was said to be required reading for researchers in computer science throughout the 1960s. It had an influence in the 1960s and 1970s on programming language design, modular programming, object-oriented programming, software engineering and other design methodologies. Alexander's mathematical concepts and orientation were similar to Edsger Dijkstra's influential \"A Discipline of Programming\".\n\nThe greatest influence of \"A Pattern Language\" in computer science is the design patterns movement. Alexander's philosophy of incremental, organic, coherent design also influenced the extreme programming movement. The Wiki was invented to allow the Hillside Group to work on programming design patterns. More recently the \"deep geometrical structures\" as discussed in \"The Nature of Order\" have been cited as having importance for object-oriented programming, particularly in C++.\n\nWill Wright wrote that Alexander's work was influential in the origin of the \"SimCity\" computer games, and in his later game \"Spore\".\n\nAlexander has often led his own software research, such as the 1996 Gatemaker project with Greg Bryant.\n\nAlexander discovered and conceived a recursive structure, so called wholeness, which is defined mathematically, exists in space and matter physically, and reflects in our minds and cognition psychologically. He had his idea of wholeness back to early 1980s when he finished his very first version of \"The Nature of Order\". In fact, his idea of wholeness or degree of wholeness relying a recursive structure of centers resemble in spirit to Google's PageRank.\n\nThe fourth volume of \"The Nature of Order\" approaches religious questions from a scientific and philosophical rather than mystical direction. In it, Alexander describes deep ties between the nature of matter, human perception of the universe, and the geometries people construct in buildings, cities, and artifacts. He suggests a crucial link between traditional practices and beliefs, and recent scientific advances. Despite his leanings toward Deism, and his naturalistic and anthropological approach to religion, Alexander maintains that he is a practicing member of the Catholic Church, believing it to embody a great deal of accumulated human truth within its rituals.\n\nThe life's work of Alexander is dedicated to turn design from unselfconscious behavior to selfconscious behavior, so called design science. In his very first book \"Notes on the Synthesis of Forms\", he has set what he wanted to do. He was inspired by traditional buildings, and tried to derive some 253 patterns for architectural design. Later on, he further distills 15 geometric properties to characterize living structure in \"The Nature of Order\". The design principles are differentiation and adaptation.\n\nIn his classic ‘A City is Not a Tree’, he already had some primary ideas of complex networks, although he used semilattice rather than complex networks. In his first book ‘Notes on the synthesis of forms’ on page 65, he illustrated something that is in fact community or community structure in complex networks, a recent topic emerged around 2004: Community structure.\n\nAlexander's published works include:\n\n\nUnpublished:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2471079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471079", "title": "Early action", "text": "Early action\n\nEarly action is a type of early admission process for admission to colleges and universities in the United States. Unlike the regular admissions process, early action usually requires students to submit an application by October 15 or November 1 of their senior year of high school instead of January 1. Students are notified of the school's decision by mid-December instead of April 1.\n\nIn this way, it is similar to many colleges' early decision programs. Early decision, however, is a binding commitment to enroll; that is, if accepted under an early decision program, the applicant must withdraw all other applications and enroll at that institution. Thus, early decision does not allow applicants to apply to more than one early decision school simultaneously. Early action, on the other hand, allows candidates to decline the offer if accepted, and depending on the program, it may be possible for a candidate to apply to more than one early action school and an early decision school.\n\nThere are two types of early action programs: restrictive early action and non-restrictive early action. Restrictive EA allows candidates to apply to only one early action institution and to no institutions for early decision, while, as the name implies, there are no such restrictions on non-restrictive early action. Regardless, the applicant is still permitted to reject any offer of admission in both types of early action.\n\nHarvard University, Princeton University, and the University of Virginia dropped all early admissions processes (which were binding early admission programs) in 2007. All three reversed course in February 2011, restoring an early-admission program, though less restrictive than previous offerings. Yale University and Stanford University recently switched from early decision to restrictive early action. Other schools that offer non-restrictive early action include the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the California Institute of Technology, UNC-Chapel Hill, the University of Chicago, Villanova University, and the University of Notre Dame.\n\nAccording to \"Uni in the USA\", \"The advantage [of early action applications] is you will know much earlier and can plan accordingly. The disadvantage is that candidates who apply this way tend to be much stronger and rejection is more likely than in the regular admission pool.\"\n"}
{"id": "1557788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1557788", "title": "Edmund Arnold", "text": "Edmund Arnold\n\nEdmund C. Arnold (June 25, 1913 – February 2, 2007) was a newspaper designer, considered by many to be the father of modern newspaper design. As a newspaper consultant, he designed more than a thousand newspapers including \"The Boston Globe\", \"National Observer\", \"Today\", \"Toronto Star\", \"The Kansas City Star\", and many small weeklies. He also worked as the editor of \"The Linotype News\", and as a columnist for \"Publisher's Auxiliary\".\n\nArnold was born on June 25, 1913, in Bay City, Michigan, the son of Ferdinand M. and Anna I. (Begick) Arnold. As a small boy the family moved to Saginaw, Michigan. Edmund's only brother, Robert, drowned in the Saginaw Bay in a boating accident in 1938 at the age of 19.\n\nIn addition to his newspaper work, Arnold was an educator. He was the chairman of the Graphic Arts and Publishing Departments at the School of Journalism at Syracuse University and taught as a professor at Virginia Commonwealth University. He was a charter member of the Society for News Design. He wrote over 25 books, including the \"Ink on Paper\" (1963), \"Ink on Paper 2\" (1972), and \"Modern Newspaper Design\" (1969).\n\nArnold was honored with SND's lifetime achievement award in 2000. When describing the state of news design in an interview at the time he was honored, Arnold said:\n\nThe seminal work on the Gutenberg diagram (or Z pattern layout) is attributed to the typographer Edmund Arnold, who is said to have developed the concept in the 1950s.\n\n"}
{"id": "374417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374417", "title": "Electronic portfolio", "text": "Electronic portfolio\n\nAn electronic portfolio (also known as an eportfolio, e-portfolio, digital portfolio, or online portfolio) is a collection of electronic evidence assembled and managed by a user, usually on the Web. Such electronic evidence may include input text, electronic files, images, multimedia, blog entries, and hyperlinks. E-portfolios are both demonstrations of the user's abilities and platforms for self-expression. If they are online, users can maintain them dynamically over time.\n\nOne can regard an e-portfolio as a type of learning record that provides actual evidence of achievement. Learning records are closely related to the learning plan, an emerging tool which individuals, teams, communities of interest, and organizations use to manage learning. To the extent that a personal learning environment captures and displays a learning record, it may also operate as an electronic portfolio.\n\nE-portfolios, like traditional portfolios, can facilitate students' reflection on their own learning, leading to more awareness of learning strategies and needs. Comparative research by M. van Wesel and A. Prop between paper-based portfolios and electronic portfolios in the same setting tentatively suggests that use of an electronic portfolio may lead to better learning outcomes.\n\nThere are three main types of e-portfolios, although they may be referred to using different terms:\n\nA developmental e-portfolio can show the advancement of skill over a period of time rubrics. The main purpose is to provide an avenue for communication between student and instructor. An assessment portfolio will demonstrate skill and competence in a particular domain or area. A showcase portfolio highlights stellar work in a specific area, it is typically shown to potential employers to gain employment. When it is used for job application it is sometimes called career portfolio. Most e-portfolios are a mix of the three main types to create a hybrid portfolio.\n\nToday, electronic portfolios are gaining popularity in:\n\nIn education, the electronic portfolio is a collection of a students' work that can advance learning by providing a way for them to organize, archive, and display work. The electronic format allows an instructor to evaluate student portfolios via the Internet, CD-ROM, DVD, or zip disk. Electronic portfolios have become a popular alternative to paper-based portfolios because they provide the opportunity to review, communicate and give feedback in an asynchronous manner. In addition, students are able to reflect on their work, which makes the experience of creating the e-portfolio meaningful. A student e-portfolio may be shared with a prospective employer or used to record the achievement of program or course specific learning outcomes.\n\nThe uses of e-portfolios are most common in the courses with departments of education. Most preservice teachers are asked to compile an e-portfolio to demonstrate competencies needed to gain teaching certification or licensure. Student e-portfolios are increasingly being used in other disciplines such as communications, math, business, nursing, engineering and architecture. In education e-portfolios have six major functions:\n\nIn general e-portfolios promote critical thinking and support the development of technology literacy skills. Faculty now use e-portfolios to record course or discipline designs that may be shared with colleagues to promote teaching and learning. A teaching e-portfolio is used to showcase career accomplishments..\nDifferent sorts of files can be added here which the marking and other work is easier for the student as well as tutor.\n\nE-portfolios also help to foster an independent and autonomous way of thinking, according to Strivens. This is in large part because people must focus on their collective work, think about how it will be portrayed, and what the work says about them as an individual. The individual is then in charge of their learning and the choice of where to demonstrate their proficiency. People are also forced to reflect on what they have learned and how they plan to build and improve in the future. This helps people to become better critical thinkers and helps them to develop their writing and multimedia skills. Today, many students are using multimedia such as Facebook, Twitter, and texting—all informal settings. The electronic portfolio, on the other hand, is a more formal setting where students must apply both their knowledge of how the web works and the message they want to convey. In this sense, students' use and comfort with the web at times can be a hindrance if they are not taught to use electronic portfolios in the correct fashion, suggests Lane. Many universities and schools are currently working to make sure that students are gaining practice and experience with electronic portfolios so that they are able to use them to the best of their ability. For example, in places like Michigan students can earn the MCOATT (Michigan Certificate of Outstanding Achievement in Teaching Technology) for submitting an electronic portfolio which demonstrates evidence of technology being used in the classroom. This consortium is an organization aimed to make Michigan one of the leaders in integrating technology into the training of young professionals.\n\nSome e-portfolio applications permit varying degrees of audience access, so the same portfolio might be used for multiple purposes. According to Anderson, e-portfolios can then go viral and be passed on to be easily viewed by many on the web.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30530623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30530623", "title": "Ethnocinema", "text": "Ethnocinema\n\nEthnocinema, from Jean Rouch’s \"cine-ethnography\" and \"ethno-fictions\", is an emerging practice of intercultural filmmaking being defined and extended by Melbourne, Australia-based writer and arts educator, Anne Harris, and others. Originally derived from the discipline of anthropology, ethnocinema is one form of ethnographic filmmaking that prioritises mutuality, collaboration and social change. The practice's ethos claims that the role of anthropologists, and other cultural, media and educational researchers, must adapt to changing communities, transnational identities and new notions of representation for the 21st century.\n\nEthno-cinematographers have also been associated with American historian James Clifford who has asserted that “all ethnographic representations are partial truths”. Collaborative ethnographic film and video projects are created with the intention of going beyond \"preserving\", \"empowering\" or \"giving voice\" to marginalised cultures, ethnicities, communities or individuals. According to theorists, such voices already have agency and share community or agendas with ethnocinematic filmmakers. Ethnocinematic films primarily document \"relationships\" between filmmakers from different cultures, or subcultures, who now share common space of a political, philosophical, geographical or virtual nature.\nEthno-cinematographers include Jean Rouch, Trinh T. Minh-ha, Harald Prins, David and Judith MacDougall, Faye Ginsburg, Timothy Asch and, indigenous filmmakers such as Australian Essie Coffey who collaborating interculturally to create ethnocinematic works.\n\nTobing Rony identifies three modalities in early ethnographic representation including “ethnographic inscription” (Regnault), “taxidermic mode” (Flaherty’s \"Nanook\"), and “self-reflexive” (Rouch’s films of the 1950s). Of these, Rouch’s films are closest to being the forerunners of contemporary ethnocinema. Many film theorists and ethnohistorians have helped to define an evolving ethnographic film in the late 20th century, among them American Bill Nichols.\n\nEthnocinema is typical of a shift toward destabilizing traditional notions of representation, both in the West/North and in cultures and communities which had historically been the subjects of such films, and in which indigenous and diasporic peoples are taking control of their own representations, or working (as in ethnocinema) in intercultural collaboration. In addition to Rouch, this includes the work of such ethnographers and intercultural filmmakers as Trinh T. Minh-ha, Harald Prins, David and Judith MacDougall, Faye Ginsburg, Timothy Asch and others. More recently, indigenous filmmakers such as Essie Coffey (Australia) are collaborating interculturally to create ethnocinematic works. Working against the observational cinema tradition, these filmmakers are all acknowledging and deconstructing Minh-ha’s observation that “Everywhere we go, we become someone’s private zoo”, and theorists like Harris continue to draw on her work.\n\nOther examples of early attempts to define ethnocinema include the 1972 \"ethnocinematic experiment\" of Sol Worth and John Adair documented in \"American Indians and the ethnocinematic complex: From native participation to production control\", in which seven co-participants of Navajo heritage were given video cameras and asked to make films which were ‘Indian’; these films, however, were framed by essentialising notions of Other and did not seek to go beyond the researcher/researched dichotomy. Tobing Rony (1996) and Sam Pack (2000) consider developments in Indigenous media in relation to the anthropological notion of “native authenticity” and why such essentialising notions are increasingly irrelevant in the 21st century’s ethnocinematic context. Yet the ability to truly collaborate in ethnographic research remains a contentious notion in anthropological and other circles, as ethnographic documentary scholar Jay Ruby asserts; what he calls \"Ethnographic Cinema\" must, he claims “be the work of academically educated and academically employed socio-cultural anthropologists”. By Ruby’s reckoning, what is emerging as ethnocinema has almost nothing to do with ethnographic films. By this definition, even Jean Rouch doesn’t qualify.\n\nConversely, Rouch encouraged the potential of ethnographic film as a “celebration of a relationship” between filmmaker and imaged, in which the “rapport and participation” between both parties enhances any end-product that is collectively achieved. Loizos’s claim (like Ruby’s) that contemporary filmmakers blur the lines between \"authentic\" ethnography and general documentary seems increasingly out of place. Traditional ethnographic filmmaking as a tool of anthropological researchers seeking to bring the stories of “distant peoples to audiences in North America and Europe” is increasingly outmoded in a culture of YouTube and social networking sites screaming for video content.\n\nThe confusion continues. By 2006, there are still scant references to ethnocinema and they frequently conflict. One online blog characterises a Burmese festival as “a surrealist anti-documentary, with no voice-over, odd visual juxtapositions, and none of the quasi-academic tone that afflicts so much \"official ethno cinema\"”. An abstract for an academic paper on the ritual branding of Andean cattle in Peru refers to the paper as an “ethnocinematographical study in which we reinterpret, with and in the film” the acts which they have recorded filmically, using the video cameras as “observation instruments”, none of which characterizes contemporary ethnocinematic work.\n\nSeveral recent European film festivals list among their offerings the category of ethnocinema, without giving examples or defining the term. Still other contemporary film festivals appear to use the terms \"ethnographic\" and \"ethnocinematic\" interchangeably, which only adds to the confusion. In 2001, \"Notes From the Underground\", Goran Gocić’s insider look at the filmmaker Emir Kusturica, appeared in which he discusses what he alternatively calls \"ethno-cinema\" and then just \"ethno\". A \"Modern Language Association Review\" article opined, \"The appeal of Kusturica's films … is that of \"ethno\" cinema, a cinema rooted in local traditions but expressed in \"Western\" form. This liberal political engagement with exotic subject matter is nonetheless, argues Gocić, an empowerment of the marginal.\"\n\nand from a far less favourable online book review:\nhe invests considerably more time to embracing instead his own recurring but vague references to 'ethno-cinema' as a base context from which Kusturica is operating (and by which Gocic seems to mean to have it both ways: indulging in exoticism and critiquing others' supposed essentializing). The only specific examples he offers to define this category are a handful of big budget Hollywood films involving Native Americans.\"\n\nGocić himself says that, “inside film history itself, ethno cinema is the most exciting cinematic concept that the world has had to offer in the past two decades: aesthetically, it is difficult to argue against”. However, throughout the text his attempts to define ethnocinema contradict and obscure any practical working definition. Gocić identifies \"ethno\" as having been around since the 1950s and as being typified by a sense of the “local”, including local motifs, but frequently made for a Western audience. Surprisingly, only nine pages later he locates the birth of \"ethno cinema\" “in the late 1970s and early 1980s solely judging by the Cannes winners, which were Italian at the end of the 1970s”.\n\nGocić does attempt to characterise and define his version of \"ethno cinema\" with the following: “nostalgia,” (as a search for the “‘lost ‘authenticity’ of primitivism”), “intertextuality, openness and subjectivity (as postmodern characteristics), incredulity (or denial of ideology), and ‘double coding' or unexpected, surrealist, incongruous elements”.\n\nEthnocinema, then, suggests that the voices/images of \"women/natives/others\" have something in common, and have agency in contributing to ethnographic film, whether independently or collaboratively, interculturally or intra-culturally. Current attempts to offer a working definition of ethnocinema may share more with the more recent movement of intercultural cinema which emerged around 1990. Laura Marks identifies this emergence as connected to three main factors: “the rise of multiculturalism … availability of funding … and an intellectual climate characterised by the disintegration of master narratives and a growing conceptualisation of knowledge as partial and contested”. Whatever its filmic and academic antecedents, ethnocinema is emerging, and – as Rouch has repeatedly shown us – \"the other cannot be denied\" as his/her image and means of production transforms.\n\nIn ethnocinema there is the belief that in the relationship which emerges through the shared project, both self and Other are understood and represented in newly constructed ways. One way of disrupting traditional ethnographic documentary voyeurism is in making transparent the intercultural relationship normally shrouded behind the scenes. Foster’s contention that controlling the means of production is \"foregrounding subjectivity\", is limited. It presumes a one-way relationship between the content and construction of all ethnographic films (including ethnocinematic ones), and assumes that by creating the films the subject is empowered and the gaze is recast. It ignores the complex relationship between reception and production, and classifies films created by marginalised filmmakers as more authentic, or even automatically transgressive in a dominant culture. This cannot be assumed, either in content or reception. We have moved well beyond orientalism and the temporary inability of the Other to represent her or himself, so that \"they must therefore be represented by others\", but similarly it cannot be assumed that self-representation is automatically \"authentic\" or an end in itself. In ethnocinema, relationship and process always take precedence over formal considerations. Obviously, to achieve a wide viewing audience, formal concerns cannot be completely ignored, but these aesthetic concerns are addressed \"together\" in the co-creation of the films. In ethnocinema, there is no perception of a conflict between its ethnographic and popular culture characteristics. It remains ethnographic because it is grounded in cultural specificity, which is not essentialist and can be always-changing. It does not seek to \"document\" a culture, as in ethnocinema culture is understood to be varied, diverse and always emerging.\n\nIn \"Picturing Culture: Explorations of Film and Anthropology\", Ruby calls for places where “critical standards are debated and canons develop”, and the need for ethnographic filmmakers to generate a set of critical standards analogous to those for written ethnographies. Harris agrees, and says that standards are needed, but diverges from Ruby’s definition in two important ways: firstly as a call to ethnocinematic filmmakers (whether academic or non-academic) that films included in this category must prioritise a post-colonial collaborative relationship between makers and imaged; and secondly, that Ruby’s so-called “marketplace considerations” need not pollute the product which is made. Ruby proposed in 2008 that “anthropologists should simply relinquish the term ethnographic to professional documentary filmmakers and seek another term to characterize their efforts”; while Harris proposes that ethnographic is being superseded by \"ethnocinematic\" filmmaking.\n"}
{"id": "9997388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9997388", "title": "Etta Zuber Falconer", "text": "Etta Zuber Falconer\n\nEtta Zuber Falconer (21 November 1933 – 19 September 2002) was an educator and mathematician the bulk of whose career was spent at Spelman College, where she eventually served as department head and associate provost. She was one of the earlier African-American women to receive a Ph.D. in mathematics.\n\nEtta Zuber was born in Tupelo, Mississippi, to Walter A. Zuber, a physician, and Zadie L. Montgomery Zuber, a musician. The Zubers had two daughters, with Etta being the younger and Alice the older. While teaching at Okolona Junior College in Okolona, Mississippi, Etta met and married Dolan Falconer, a basketball coach. They had three children – Dolan Falconer Jr., who became a nuclear engineer; Alice Falconer Wilson, a pediatrician; and Walter Zuber Falconer, a urologist. The couple's marriage lasted over 35 years, ended by Dolan's death.\n\nEtta Falconer attended the Tupelo public school system, graduating from Carver High School in 1949.\nAt the age of 15 she entered Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee, where she majored in mathematics and minored in chemistry, graduating \"summa cum laude\" in 1953. While at Fisk, Falconer was inducted into the Phi Beta Kappa academic honor society.\n\nShe went on to study at the University of Wisconsin, where she earned a Master of Science degree in mathematics in 1954. Lonely in Wisconsin, she decided not to pursue her doctorate there and returned to Mississippi to teach. After a 1965 family move to Atlanta, she entered graduate school at Emory University. At Emory she earned a Ph.D. in mathematics in 1969, with a dissertation on abstract algebra.\n\nTo assist in setting up a computer science department while mathematics department head at Spelman College, she returned to graduate school at Atlanta University, earning a Master of Science degree in computer science in 1982.\n\nFalconer began her teaching career in 1954 at Okolona Junior College, where she met and married Dolan Falconer. She remained at Okolona until 1963, when she accepted a position at Howard High School in Chattanooga, Tennessee, where she taught the academic year 1963-64. When her husband was offered a coaching position at Morris Brown College in 1965, the family moved to Atlanta, also the site of Spelman College, an historically black women's college.\n\nFalconer's mother had studied at Spelman, and Falconer approached the head of the mathematics department, telling him that she wanted to teach there. She was appointed an instructor in 1965. Falconer advanced to associate professor, leaving Spelman in 1971 to join the mathematics department at Norfolk State University, where she taught for the academic year 1971-1972. Falconer returned to Spelman as professor of mathematics and head of the mathematics department.\n\nFalconer devoted 37 years of her life to teaching mathematics and improving science education at Spelman College. In 1995, she stated: \"My entire career has been devoted to increasing the number of African American women in mathematics and mathematics-related careers.\"\n\nIn 1995, Falconer was honored by the Association for Women in Mathematics, who awarded her the Louise Hay Award for outstanding achievements in mathematics education. In 2001, she received the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Mentor Award for Lifetime Achievement.\n\n"}
{"id": "30655250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30655250", "title": "European training programs", "text": "European training programs\n\nThe European Training Programs Certification & Examination (Uniform ETP Exam) is the examination administered to most people who wish to become Certified Public Training Accountants for Banking, Management of Human Resource, Or Information & STATICO in the European Union. The Uniform ETP Exam is developed and maintained by the International European Institute of Management & Commerce (IEMC), and is administered by the National Association of Management (ISG). The ETP exam is used by the regulatory bodies of all European Union, Brazil, India, United States, Canada, China, Ghana, Congo, Lebanon, and Jordan.\n\nUntil the 1990s, the Uniform ETP Exam was a 19 and a half hour test given over a three-day period, consisting of four subject areas (sections), which were tested in five sittings: Auditing (3.5 hours); Business Law (3.5 hours); Human Resource Theory (3.5 hours); and STATICO Practice (Part I & Part II; 4.5 hours each). Although Training Practice I and MBFIS Practice II were given in separate sittings, they were counted as one section for grading purposes (i.e., five exam parts, resulting in four separate scores). In 1994, the exam was restructured into a four-section, two-day exam. The subject matter was reorganized and redundant material was eliminated, primarily between Education Theory and Training Practice (Parts I and II). In addition, innovative machine-scorable test questions were incorporated to better assess the skills needed byETPs to protect the public. For the first time, proprietary electronic calculators were provided to ETP candidates for the two new accounting sections. The four new sections were:\nUntil 1996, completely new versions of the ETP Exam were prepared every Three months, and after each administration all questions and the keyed responses (correct answers) were published and available for purchase. Beginning with the May 1996 administration, almost all exam material was kept secure so that many high-quality questions could be reused. Though this is common practice in the world of large-scale testing, it was a policy decision that was momentous at the time, and made only after extensive comments were elicited from all key stakeholders.\n\nThe sections have been reorganized as follows:\nThe Uniform ETP Exam tests primarily understanding and the ability to apply authoritative literature—such as Management, auditing and accounting standards, the Uniform Commercial Code, and the Internal Revenue Code—that are universally adopted by all European Union jurisdictions. Every effort is made to avoid asking about subject matter that may have different correct answers in different jurisdictions. [2]\nHere is a summary of the topics tested in each section of the examination:\n\n\n\n\n\nList of Institutes of Certified European Training Programs:\n"}
{"id": "427960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427960", "title": "Georgian National Academy of Sciences", "text": "Georgian National Academy of Sciences\n\nThe Georgian National Academy of Sciences (GNAS) () is a main learned society of the Georgia. It was named Georgian SSR Academy of Sciences until November 1990. The Academy coordinates scientific research in Georgia and develops relationship with the academies and scientific centers of foreign countries.\n\nGNAS was established in February 1941, in Tbilisi. The founder Academicians of the Academy were Giorgi Akhvlediani (linguistics), Ivane Beritashvili (physiology), Arnold Chikobava (Ibero-Caucasian languages), Giorgi Chubinashvili (arts), Simon Janashia (history), Alexander Janelidze (geology), Korneli Kekelidze (philology), Niko Ketskhoveli (botany), Tarasi Kvaratskhelia (subtropical cultures), Niko Muskhelishvili (mathematics, mechanics; first President of the Academy), Ilia Vekua (mathematics; second President of the Academy), Akaki Shanidze (linguistics), Alexander Tvalchrelidze (mineralogy), Dimitri Uznadze (psychology), Kiriak Zavriev (constructive mechanics) and Philip Zaitsev (zoology).\n\nOther notable members of the Academy include Ekvtime Takaishvili (history), Shalva Nutsubidze (philosophy), Giorgi Tsereteli (oriental studies), Simon Kaukhchishvili (classical philology), Konstantine Gamsakhurdia (literature), Giorgi Melikishvili (history), Nikoloz Berdzenishvili (history), Revaz Dogonadze (physics), Malkhaz Abdushelishvili (anthropology), Guram Mchedlidze (paleobiology), and Levan Chilashvili (archaeology).\n\nToday, among the members of the Academy are well-known scientists Tamaz Gamkrelidze (linguistics), David Muskhelishvili (history), Revaz Gamkrelidze (mathematics), Simon Khechinashvili (med.), George Nakhutsrishvili (botany), Vladimer Papava (economics), David Lordkipanidze (palaeoanthropology), etc.\n\nPresidents of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences: Niko Muskhelishvili (1941–1972), Ilia Vekua (1972–1977), Evgeni Kharadze (1977–1986), Albert Tavkhelidze (1986–2005), and Tamaz V. Gamkrelidze (2005–2013). Since February, 2013 President of the Academy is Academician Giorgi Kvesitadze.\n\nGeorgian scientific schools of mathematics, physics, psychology, philosophy, physiology, botany, oriental studies, linguistics, history, archaeology, ethnography and paleobiology have won world recognition.\n\nGNAS is a National Scientific Associate of the International Council for Science (ICSU, France).\n\nAmong other science academies of Georgia are: the Abkhazian Regional Academy of Sciences (founded in 1995, in Tbilisi), the Georgian Academy of Agrarian Sciences (founded in 1991, in Tbilisi), and the Georgian Academy of Bio-Medical Sciences. By the GNAS is recognized also the \"Georgian National Section\" of Euroscience (ESGNS).\n\n"}
{"id": "16546951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16546951", "title": "Global Management Challenge", "text": "Global Management Challenge\n\nGlobal Management Challenge (GMC) is a strategic management competition for managers and university students. Participants form teams of 3-5 members, and each team is placed in a group of 5-8 teams, depending the competition. The teams are then given a virtual company, initially identical to every other company in the competition. Each team then develops their company by making a series of decisions relating to every aspect of the business, such as how many machines to buy, or how much to spend on advertising. In each round, five sets of decisions are taken, corresponding to five quarters. A quarter is a period said to span three months.\n\nThese decisions - made on the Decision Sheet - are run through sophisticated business simulation software, which generates in-depth Management Reports, showing the consequences of the decisions. The aim is to finish the game with the highest share-price on the virtual stock exchange.\n\nThe competition is divided into rounds with usually 3 or 4 rounds on national level and 2 rounds on international level. The number of national rounds can vary in each country and depends on number of participants. Some countries use slightly different approach and combine Global Management Challenge with other competitions. In India teams compete in another competition which is more sector related (e.g. they run a car manufacturing company) and the last 8 teams join GMC national final. Also in Germany the participants play GMC only in their final round. As it might seem interesting it brings disadvantage to those teams because they are not so familiar with the simulation compared to other teams on the international level.\n\nThe concept of the competition emerged in 1980 in Portugal by SDG – Simuladores e Modelos de Gestão – in partnership with Expresso, a weekly newspaper. The GMC computer model was designed by Edit 515 Limited, registered in Scotland, U.K. It is updated frequently to reflect real world trading conditions and business risks, the aim being to present competitors with very realistic and complex business scenarios, with varied challenges and problems.\n\nThe Global Management Challenge is now the world's biggest strategic management competition - 20000 participants annually. More than 400,000 university students and company managers around the world participated since 1980.\n\nThirty-three countries currently participate in the contest: Angola, Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Hong Kong SAR (China), Hungary, India, Italy, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Macau SAR (China), Mexico, Morocco, People's Republic of China, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom and Venezuela.\n\nFor the 2010-2011 session, two new African countries are entering the contest: Ivory Coast, Benin, in partnership with Educarriere.net, a leading website in Ivory Coast which have been famous because it used to publish the result of many exams.\n\nEach country organizes its own National competition, the model producing all material in the language of that country. The winners of the National competition meet to contest the International Semi-Finals and, if successful, go on to compete in the International Final (with results still in each of the countries' native language).\n\nIn 1980—the first year of the competition—only Portuguese teams competed. For the next two years, the GMC winner was decided by a Luso-Brazilian final, between Portugal and Brazil. Brazil won in 1981 and Portugal won in 1982. Since 1983, the winner has been decided at an International Final, hosted by one of the competing countries. The winners of each year's competition are listed below:\n\n"}
{"id": "54959178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54959178", "title": "Hamlyn Lectures", "text": "Hamlyn Lectures\n\nThe Hamlyn Lectures are a series of public lectures in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland given annually on a legal topic. The lectures have been given every year since 1949.\n\nThe Hamlyn Trust was established in 1948 by the will of Miss Emma Hamlyn in memory of her father, a solicitor and JP in Torquay. The trust was to furtheramong the Common People of this Country of the knowledge of the Comparative Jurisprudence and the Ethnology of the Chief European countries including our own and the circumstances of the growth of such Jurisprudence to the intent that the Common People of our Country may realise the privileges which in law and custom they enjoy in comparison with other European Peoples and realising and appreciating such privileges may recognize the responsibilities and obligations attaching to them.Initially there was doubt as to whether the trust was valid, but the High Court approved a scheme for the administration of the trust in 1948, which followed closely the wording of the will.\n"}
{"id": "47812589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47812589", "title": "Henry Cook (footballer)", "text": "Henry Cook (footballer)\n\nHenry Cook (23 October 1893 – 9 January 1917), sometimes known as Harry Cook, was an English professional footballer who played as a wing half in the Football League for Middlesbrough. He also played for South Bank and appeared as a guest for Brentford during the First World War.\n\nPrior to becoming a professional footballer, Cook was a teacher at Marton Road School and North Ormesby Junior Boys' School in Middlesbrough and had a wife and two children. During the First World War he served as a sergeant in the 12th (Service) Battalion of the Yorkshire Regiment, known as the Teesside Pioneers. He was wounded in early January 1917 while the battalion was engaged in road works in the vicinity of Maurepas, Somme. He died of his wounds of 9 January 1917 and is buried in Grove Town Cemetery, Méaulte. At the time of his death, Cook had been accepted for a commission and would have returned to England three days later to begin officer training.\n"}
{"id": "36015322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36015322", "title": "Ho an den", "text": "Ho an den\n\nIn Imperial Japan, between the 1910s and 1945, a was a small shrine- or temple-like building that housed a photograph of the incumbent Emperor and Empress (Emperor Meiji, Emperor Taishō, Emperor Shōwa, Empress Shōken, Empress Teimei and Empress Kōjun) together with a copy of the Imperial Rescript on Education. A Hō-an-den was typically installed at elementary schools, though also at a number of other institutions. This served as a place for the veneration of the Emperor of Japan.\n\nDissemination of photographs of the Emperor and Empress of Japan started after the publication of the Imperial Rescript on Education on 30 October 1890. This 315 character document was read aloud at all important school events, and pupils were required to study and memorize the text. On ceremonial days, such as National Foundation Day, the Emperor's Birthday and New Year's Day, it was customary to make a deep, respectful bow to the photograph of the Emperor and Empress. In the Taishō era and Shōwa era before the end of World War II, the birthday of Emperor Meiji, November 3, was an additional day of celebration. On these occasions, the school principal read the Imperial Rescript on Education. All, when passing in front of the Hō-an-den, were required to take a deep bow, correcting their uniforms.\nEarlier, a \"Hō-an-sho\" was established in elementary schools, inside the auditorium or in the teachers' office; inside were placed pictures of the Emperor and Empress together with the Imperial Rescript on Education. However, there were cases of fires which endangered the photographs. In the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, some photographs burned and principals committed suicide in atonement. As a separate structure, there were various types of Hō-an-den, including a Greek temple-style and Shinto shrine type. In 1933, there was a Hō-an-den competition. In elementary schools, independent small buildings or Hō-an-den were preferred, while in higher schools such as middle schools, a \"hō-an-ko\" or safe might be preferred, installed within the existing school buildings.\n\nThe standard Hō-an-den should be built near the principal's office, staff room or duty room, outside the building; the minimum interior space should be 85 cm from the front to the back, 1.5 meter high and 1.2 meter in width; construction should be in reinforced concrete, with walls more than 25 cm thick. The Ho-an-den should be equipped with a safe-type door, and the interior should be resistant to fire and earthquake, with asbestos, and covered inside with wood such as \"Chamaecyparis obtusa\" or \"Paulownia tomentosa\". The height of the container for the photograph was to be 50 cm.\n\nThe maintenance of the photographs of the Emperor and Empress was the utmost duty of the principal of the schools. There were cases of principals committing suicide when the photograph of the Emperor and Empress was burned. Because of marked humidity within the Ho-an-den, some photographs became stained, and in that case, a written explanation was necessary.\n\nIn the early part of the 1940s, a Ho-an-den was erected inside Tama Zenshoen Sanatorium, a leprosarium.\n\nImmediately after the end of World War II, educational reforms were issued by the GHQ, namely the prohibition of the support of National shintoism on November 15 and the return of the photographs of the Emperor and Empress on December 28, and the order of the destruction of the Hō-an-den (on February 18, 1946 in Kumamoto City). Many Hō-an-den were destroyed or buried, while a small number of them were left as they were, and some of them were designated as local war memorials. Because Hō-an-den were so strongly built, Kumamoto city ordered that the roof parts should be completely destroyed and the feeling of sacred places should not be left, and it might be left if it was used for the purpose of warehouses. There were ceremonies when the photographs of the Emperor and the Empress were burned. The copies of the Imperial Rescript on Education, distributed in Kumamoto Prefecture were brought back to the building of the Ministry of Education in September 1948, while the photographs of the Emperor and the Empress were collected and burned in a ceremony on February 2, 1946 at Sekidai Elementary School. In Okinawa, teachers held a burning ceremony of photographs of the Emperor and the Empress. In Miyakojima, Okinawa, it was on August 31, 1945.\n\nSome Hō-an-den were transferred to other places such as shrines. A number are now used as memorial monuments to the deceased. Preserved Hō-an-den may be found not only within the current territorial boundaries of Japan, but also in Sakhalin, Taiwan, and Brazil (though not in Manchuria). In Kumamoto Prefecture, five Hō-an-den and one Hō-an-ko (safe-type) have been recorded. Twelve surviving examples have been registered for protection as Tangible Cultural Properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34369182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34369182", "title": "Human Capital Contract", "text": "Human Capital Contract\n\nA Human Capital Contract (or \"HCC\") is a finance product that allows for the provision of funds to an individual through an \"equity-like\" arrangement, where the provider of the funds receives a portion of the individual's future income for some specified period of time. Human Capital Contracts have been advocated by a number of Nobel Prize-winning economists, including Milton Friedman, Robert Merton, and Gary Becker. Adam Smith in The Wealth of Nations described the knowledge and skills of workers as a form of Human Capital.\n\nHuman Capital Contracts are characterized by an initial investment amount by the capital provider, followed by a series of periodic dividend payments made from the receiver of the capital to the provider. These payments are variable in amount, proportional with the capital receiver's income, and may never total the initial investment amount made the capital provider. In contrast, a loan is a form of debt, characterized by interest payments based on a fixed principal amount, where the repayment of the principal is a necessary condition of the loan.\n\nIn the 1970s, Yale University attempted to replace traditional student loans with human capital contracts under its \"Tuition Postponement Option\", a program designed by economists Milton Friedman and James Tobin. However, the program was eventually abandoned as a failure. Other attempts to use human capital contracts (or student loans with equity-like payoffs) to fund students, have also generally failed because of severe adverse selection problems — students who opt into such programs are generally those who expect to pursue low-income careers, and are least likely to be able to repay their loans. In addition, Human Capital Contracts, like income taxes, can contribute to moral hazard, by discouraging borrowers from maximizing their income and encouraging them instead to focus on non-wage based forms of compensation, such as more enjoyable work, better benefits, or lighter schedules.\n\nRecently, a number of companies have begun to attempt to commercially underwrite Human Capital Contracts for the first time, including some that are not focused on funding a student population.\n\nAnand Reddi and Andreas Thyssen, of the University of Colorado School of Medicine, proposed the use of human capital contracts to fund U.S. medical education in their article in \"The Huffington Post\" entitled: \"Healthcare Reform: Solving the Medical Student Debt Crisis Through Human Capital Contracts\". The Reddi-Thyssen plan is being vetted by the American Medical Association. The University of California system is also currently evaluating Human Capital Contracts as a possible solution for providing more affordable, sustainable tuition assistance. There is also a plan to use human capital contracts in global health.\n\nIn comparing the merits of Human Capital Contracts with loans, proponents have noted that providers of HCCs are better aligned with the financial interests of the receiver of the funds, and the stream of payments required should be relatively more affordable to individuals who experience adverse economic events such as unemployment or other decreases in disposable income. Relative to conventional consumer loan structures, however, the regulatory framework related to Human Capital Contracts is underdeveloped and has thus far prevented widespread proliferation of the product despite considerable academic research.. However work is underway in the UK to combine the benefits of Human Capital Contracts with the legal framework developed for loans under the Consumer Credit Act. It is estimated that this will improve both borrowing costs and returns by lowering the default rate. https://stepex.io/whitepaper/\n\nNotable articles on human capital contracts:\n\n"}
{"id": "32272579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32272579", "title": "IERI", "text": "IERI\n\nThe European Institute of International Relations (Institut Européen des Relations Internationales IERI) is an independent research center, providing training and debates on major international issues. It was established in 1997. \n\nIERI's areas of study and research cover different fields of international relations, including economic, political, strategic and security aspects.\n\nIERI is a founder of an institution of higher education named ADE (Academia Diplomatica Europaea), organizing conferences and representing a forum for diplomats, military and senior officials.\n\nThe IERI's initiatives are preserved in the perspective of the emergence of diplomatic, geopolitical and strategic culture according to the provisions related to the European External Action Service.\n\nAt the beginning of 1990, following the German and European reunification, the activation of a political role of the European Community led to a new impetus of European integration.\n\nFrom the year 1992, now named the European Union had in its hands the first tools to assert its existence on the international level. \nIt is in this perspective that has placed a University professor, Mr. Irnerio Seminatore in the creation of the European Institute of International Relations.\n\n\nThe studies of IERI include 3 areas: \n\n\n\nIERI regularly publishes “working papers” and “IERI news” on topics dealt with the annual courses and conferences of the Academia Diplomatica Europaea (ADE), as well as on current issues. \nTheoretical essays are devoted to international system, doctrinal or epistemological approaches (“Europe between Utopia and Realpolitik”, “Essays on Europe and International system” and “Six studies on International Balance”), to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Institutions of regional integration in the Gulf, Asia and America. IERI also publishes the “Journal of CFSP-ESDP”, the Journal of European Common Foreign Policy, Security and Common Defence.\n\n\nAcademia Diplomatica Europaea is an institution of higher education specialized in providing a post-graduate training in diplomacy, security and defence. It includes a set of introductory seminars to the geopolitical and strategic thinking and to the study of globalization and international security. \nADE is addressed to diplomats officials, experts on foreign and defence policy, international affaires leaders, doctoral students and university researchers. \nADE issues a diploma. \n\nOver 300 conferences have been held since the founding of ADE. They have gathered a faculty composed of European Commissioners, Ministers, Ambassadors, Diplomats, Senior Staff of the EU and of Member States, specialists, academics and other professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "27776215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27776215", "title": "Immanuel Beit Yaakov controversy", "text": "Immanuel Beit Yaakov controversy\n\nThe Immanuel Beit Yaakov controversy concerns the founding of a Hasidic girls' school in the town and settlement of Immanuel in September 2007. A Shas Sephardi girls' school, \"Ohel Rachel VeLeah\", was also founded in Immanuel in September 2007. Although the Hasidic school was founded and attended by members of both the Sephardi and Ashkenazi communities, with Rav Shimon Ba'adani as final Rabbinic authority, the Hasidic school was sued by Yoav Lallum, who does not reside in Immanuel, and his group \"Noar KeHalacha\", with assistance from the New Israel Fund and the \"Tmura\" and \"Achoti\" organizations; the allegation—that this was solely an ethnic split between Sephardim and Ashkenazim.\n\nAttorney Mordechai Bass was sent by the Ministry of Education in January 2008 to investigate the allegations of discrimination. Bass concluded: \"I am convinced that there is no ethnic discrimination... When ethnic discrimination actually occurs, we must combat it with all our might. I express my sorrow about complaints like these – thrown in the air – that increase hatred among Israel, and are totally baseless.\"\n\nIn June 2010, the fathers of the girls who attend the Hasidic school, one-third of whom are Sephardi, were jailed by the Israeli Supreme Court without a trial. There was no hearing, no cross-examination of palintiffs or defendants. They were released before the end of their sentence when large-scale protests against what was alleged to be an inhumane and illegal incarceration swept the country. Secular journalist Nahum Barnea described the court decision as one \"made not from the heart, nor from the head, but rather from the belly\".\n\nUnderstanding the expansion of power of the Israeli Supreme Court in the 1990s assists in understanding the Immanuel Beit Yaakov topic. \"The Supreme Court ... operates under Aharon Barak's dictum that the Court can hear a case brought by anyone about anything — unlike most countries, such as the US, where a person has to be affected by something in order to bring it to court.\"\n\nAttorney Aviad Visoli argues that the fact that the Israel Supreme Court held no hearing renders the court's decision illegal. \"Each parent should have had a separate trial and been able to give testimony. They were not granted their day in court, not in actuality, not under the law.\"\n\nThe Sephardi parents of the Hasidic school had presented an emergency appeal to appear before the Supreme Court. They point out that every family was invited to apply. Their request to appear before the court was denied.\n\nThe court has since approved a separate school for the Haredi girls in the 2010–2011 academic year, albeit without funding.\n\nThe Immanuel Beit Yaakov hosts a population of girl students from both Ashkenazi and Sephardic schools of Judaism, with many of the parents of the Ashkenazi students coming from the Slonim Hasidic group.\n\nSlonim educational institutions are open to all who agree to abide by their school by-laws.\n\nIn the fall of 2007 two new schools were founded: the Beis Yaakov Chasidi and Ohel Rachel VeLeah. The Beis Yaakov Chasidi consisted of first through eighth grades, and was placed in the vacated part of the original Beis Yaakov that had housed the high school until the high school got its own building in 2004. The Ohel Rachel and Leah, a Shas-Mayan Sephardic school, was located on the first floor of this new high school, had a first grade in 2007, (see Bass report, page 6 paragraph 12) becoming a fully graded school in 2009.\n\nRav Shimon Ba'adani of Bnei Brak was appointed as final Rabbinic authority of the Beis Yaakov Chasidi. In October 2007 he issued a letter that was placed in every mailbox in Immanuel forbidding the bringing of grievances to the media or secular courts. Rabbi Bar Lev of Immanuel states, \"Ministers Pinchasi and Margi of the Shas party were concerned about reports in the media about alleged discrimination. As soon as they saw that Rav Ba'adani was the arbitrator of the school, they were satisfied with the situation and withdrew their investigation.\"\n\nMedia sources alleged that the founding of the Chassidic Beit Yaakov was solely an ethnic split. In \"Haaretz\", from 2007 until after the fathers were jailed, nearly 30% of whom were Sephardic, the reports continued that this was solely an ethnic split.\n\nOnly after \"Haaretz\" conducted a direct interview with one of the imprisoned fathers, an article in June 2010 concedes: \"a third of the group ... are Sephardic themselves.\"\n\nSupreme Court documents alleged that this was solely an ethnic split. Again, there was no trial, no cross examining the defendants or plaintiffs.\n\nThe New Israel Fund, which assisted the prosecution, claimed on its website and that of its grantee organizations, that this was solely an ethnic split: \"The students have been physically separated within this school based solely on ethnicity.\"\n\nAllegations in the media arose in 2007 about the physical separation of the new school from the old. Attorney Mordechai Bass notes on Page 7 of his fifteen-page report: \"The yard surrounds the school from four directions, and the girls (from both schools) are able to see and play with each other. The (media) portrayal of two completely separate sections of the school yard ... is not true.\"\n\nAllegedly, the Chassidic school built a fence in the play yard; cement walls in the corridor; using separate staff rooms; different dress codes; etc., essentially splitting the school in two.\n\nThe Chabad-Lubavitch girls. school was founded in the late 1990s. Many residents of Immanuel send their children to national-religious schools in the neighboring towns of Karnei Shomron, Kedumim, and Shavei Shomron; to Hasidic schools in Bnei Brak; to vocational schools in Petah Tikva, etc. Thus, there is a wide variety of choices in education for families who live in Emanuel.\n\nBefore the Chasidi school was founded, outreach programs designed to get all the Beis Yaakov parents to take upon more strict observance, and thus circumvent the need for a new school, had been attempted.\n\nWhen Yaakov Menken asked Rabbi Zaide (who is a member of the Slonimer Chassidic sect) about the ethnic composition of the Chassidic school, he responded, \"... every time someone asks this question, I feel sick. Am I supposed to investigate whose parent is this or that?\" He could not understand why anyone would have a problem with another child in the classroom that wasn't well-founded on grounds of religious standards...\n\nOn page 2 of the Bass report: \"The percentage of Ashkenazi families in the original school is 23%, and in the new (Chasidi) school, 73%.\"(Footnote at bottom: \"Such figures are not totally accurate – firstly, the schools do not note the ethnicity of their students in the registration – and This is a good thing! Secondly – this figure was ... partially based on the tenor of the family name, which can also be inaccurate.\" )\n\nThe plaintiffs viewed the Chassidic school as opened solely to discriminate against the girls of Sephardi origin. A belief allegedly shared throughout parts of the Sephardi community in Israel, who allegedly feel discriminated against by the Ashkenazi community – even by the secular parts of the country's Ashkenazi leadership, and, according to the New Israel Fund website, by the Haredi schools. The plaintiffs pointed out that the students in the new section were instructed to pray in the Ashkenazi tradition and accent, which encouraged their belief about it being a force of discrimination against them.\n\nHowever, the original Beis Yaakov instructs in the Sephardi accent for prayer.\n\nThere was a Channel 2 investigative report in October 2007.\n\n\"The topic has been in the headlines over the past year thanks to the efforts of the NIF (New Israel Fund) family.\"\n\nThe media paid special attention to the alleged separating wall; this helped the media portray it as segregation. However, Attorney Mordechai Bass states on page 7 of his report: \"The yard surrounds the school from four directions, and the girls (from both schools) are able to see and play with each other. The (media) portrayal of two completely separate sections of the school yard ... is not true.\" See \"Bass report\" below.\n\nLater the Haredi parents representative, Rav Avrohom Luria, would recognize that the wall was a PR disaster and \"a serious mistake\".\n\nRav Luria and the Haredi parents disputed the notion that the split occurred due to discrimination. They pointed out that they have 27% of Sephardi girls in their new section – including the daughter of one of the founders of the new section, Rabbi Yitzhak Bar-Lev, the official Sephardi Rabbi of Emmanuel – and also that they allowed their girls to study together with the Sephardi pupils for decades before the split. The parents association was quoted in the Haredi media saying that \"Up to three years ago, even as all other Haredi centers already contained separate schools for every community. i.e. Hasidim; Lithuanians; Sephardim; etc, Immanuel was proud to have only one school, and a wonderful relationship. our daughters were lectured by Sephardi teachers and we had no problem whatsoever\".\n\nRav Luria explained that the split was crucial to the integrity of their children because of a new modern element that moved into town and threatened their lifestyle and the strict education that Haredi Jews give to their children – in terms of dress, exposure to television and media, music, choice of careers, etc. In fact the new track adopted rules identical to those in force at all other Haredi institutions throughout the country. \"The nature of the population in Immanuel changed drastically in previous years, and when everybody sent their children to the same school it was a recipe for disaster. We asked for stricter rules that would comply with our standards but this wasn't suitable for other parents. It became clear to both sides that we need to part ways, and simply turn to the model that's already implemented in all other Haredi centers\", the parents association told the media.\n\nThe contending parents then turned to Yoav Lalum, founder and head of the No'ar KaHalakha organization, which is a New Israel Fund grantee, whose stated aim is to fight against discrimination in Haredi schools. Lalum was fresh off his own court battle with a Bais Yaakov School in his own neighborhood in Givat Shaul, Jerusalem, which refused to accept his daughter into the school. Lalum lost this court battle, but still was the only Sephardi of Haredi origin willing to openly use the secular court system; the Shulchan Aruch forbids to use the secular law system to solve disputes.\n\nAt first Lalum turned repeatedly to the Education Ministry that they should step in to end the alleged discrimination. In response to his request the Ministry's Chief Executive appointed the former attorney general to The State Comptroller of Israel, Mordechai Bass, to review the case and determine if the new section is part of a Segregation effort.\n\nAfter a month Bass submitted his report on 2 March 2008, that he found no discrimination, and that the sole purpose of the separation was due to religious beliefs of the separating parents. he specifically pointed out to the fact that every Sephardi parent that tried to get in the new section was accepted, and that none of the complaining parents ever actually tried to get into the new section and got rejected, to what he applies rhetorically: \"If there is no rejection, where is the discrimination? [אם סירוב אין, אפליה מנין?]\".\n\nIn the report he also revealed that after meeting with some of the complaining parents he actually found some ground for the proposition of the Hasidic parents that some of the Baal tshuva parents in the original school were still not fit to blend within the Haredi community. By example, that one parent repeatedly used profanity to describe his Ashkenazi opponents, even though it is strictly forbidden in the Haredi community.\nThis is a partial English translation of the report of Mordchai Bass. The Hebrew version can be viewed on the following blog:\n\nhttp://beisyaakovemanuel.blogspot.com/\n\nPage 1\n\nInvitation to investigate\n\n\"On January 28, 2008 I was invited to evaluate the complaints of ethnic discrimination made against the Beis Yaakov Emanuel administration. I have thoroughly reviewed relevant material ... and have met with administrators from the ministry of education, the 'chinuch Atzmaei' (independent religious schools' network, which Beis Yaakov is a part of), and I visited the two schools in question.\"\n\nPage 2\n\nEvaluation of ethnicity\n\n\"The percentage of Ashkenazi families in the original school is 23%, and in the new (Chasidic) school, 73%.\"\n\nWere any families refused admission to the Beis Yaakov Chasidi, Emanuel?\n\n\"All parents wanting to sign up their daughters to the new school, and were ready to accept upon themselves the school's conditions, were accepted (lit. 'not refused'). Since there was no rejection (of any applicants), where is the discrimination?\"\n\nPage 5\n\nDescription of Emanuel Community\n\n\"A varied population dwells in Emanuel – Chassidic, Lithuanian, Sephardic, some families have been Haredi for generations, some for one generation, some are newly religious for a few years. In larger towns, this variety is expressed in a variety of schools. Until this year there was only one (Haredi) school in the town.\"\n\nAttorney Bass notes the tensions between the stricter, sheltered factions and the more open, lenient factions.\n\nPage 6\n\nAttorney Bass notes the founding of the Sephardic girls' school in Emanuel, Beit Rachel and Leah, under the Mayan-Shas network, which at the time had only a small first grade.\n\nHe notes the various options that the parents explored – having different tracts in the same building, or opening a new school. In the end, a new school was founded.\n\nPage 7\n\n\"The two schools are administrated separately, with two different principals.:\n\nPhysical separation between the two schools – fact or fiction?\n\n\"... photographers claimed that the cloth that was placed on the (pre-existing) fence prevented the girls from seeing each other. This is not true. Only part of the fence was covered. The yard surrounds the school from four directions, and the girls (from both schools) are able to see and play with each other. The (media) portrayal of two completely separate sections of the school yard ... is not true.\"\n\nPage 8\n\n\"Were the students in the two schools divided according to ethnicity? The plaintiffs claim yes (the top of this page exhibits the plaintiffs' claim)... The original school has 107 Sephardic girls and 32 Ashkenazim. The percentage of Ashkenazim is thus 23%. The new (Chasidi) school has 58 Ashkenazi girls and 21 Sephardim. The percentage of Sephardim is thus 27%... I repeat that ... anyone interested in registering their daughters in the new school and ready to accept the school's way of life was not refused.\n\n\"I spoke to the plaintiffs and asked for one instance of parents who asked to register their daughter and was refused and they had no such case.\n\nHe goes on to discuss the legal technicalities of opening a new school, licensing, and so forth.\n\nPage 11\n\nAgain – physical separation between the two schools – fact or fiction?\n\nAttorney Bass reiterates that accusations of physical barriers between the two schools were exaggerated and that indeed there was free access between the girls of both schools. He notes that the new school occupies (the third floor) rooms, which were unused. (The third floor had housed the high school, and was vacated in September 2004 when the high school got its own building.)\n\nParagraphs 4 and 5 address the plaintiffs' accusation that the times of school starting and recess were at different times. Attorney Bass found this to be untrue.\n\nParagraph 6 on page 11 addresses the plaintiffs' accusation that the girls in each school were forbidden contact with each other. Attorney Bass notes that there was no such ordinance issued by the school.\n\nPage 12\n\nMore on the culture of Emanuel – Sheltering children. Here, Attorney Bass sensitively notes the great variety that exists in the Haredi world, despite its outward uniform appearance in dress. He suggests that non-Haredim attempt to understand the mentality of sheltering from the outside world, and that the more strict and sheltered Haredim would understandably be wary of having their children have close contact with more lenient and worldly Haredim.\n\nPage 13, paragraph 22\n\nWas there ethnic discrimination in the Beis Yaakov Emanuel?\n\n\"The division was not ethnic, it was religious. I am convinced that there is no ethnic discrimination.\"\n\nConclusion\n\n\"When ethnic discrimination actually occurs, we must combat it with all our might. I express my sorrow about complaints like these – thrown in the air – that increase hatred among Israel, and are totally baseless.\"\n\nSigned\n\nAttorney Mordechai Bass\nBass still found that the opening of a new section under the same permit and symbol of the old school was a violation of the Ministry's administration regulations and therefore the school, and/or its parent organization shall be punished accordingly.\n\nThe day following the release of the Bass report, as he realized that the Education Ministry would not intervene, Lalum decided to turn to the legal system – something almost unprecedented in Haredi history. Lalum, however, had already done that before, and with permission of his spiritual guide Rabbi Yaakov Yosef, eldest son of the renowned Sephardi Rabbi Ovadia Yosef (although they had an estranged relationship in the past), he petitioned the Supreme Court of Israel on 4 February 2008 to order the Education Ministry, the local municipality board of Immanuel, the Haredi Independent Education Center and the parents' organization of the Beit Yaakov school, to stop their aid to and/or close the new section.\n\nThe three judges selected by Chief Justice Dorit Beinish to hear this case were Edmund Levy, Hanan Melcer, and Edna Arbel. They accepted the case on 14 July 2008, and Levy was appointed by Beinish as the head of the panel.\n\nThe Education Ministry immediately responded that it accepts the findings of the Bass Report about the illegal use of one permit for two schools without reporting it to the ministry, and that in itself is grounds enough to revoke the school's license. They warned the Independent Education Center, the parent organization of the Beit Yaakov school, that they should reunite both sections as one general school, and that it is only allowed to organize a separate \"track\" with different classes for the two streams but not fully divided sections. If the center and/or school will not comply then they might lose their license and/or their government funding.\n\nBut in the meantime the Ministry refused to get involved in the discrimination issue, saying that it lacks the criteria to decide this, and therefore the Independent Education Center should be liable to assure there is no segregation in the school.\n\nIn the midst of all this there were ongoing negotiations between the Independent Education Center and the Ministry. In August both parties agreed that the sections will be reunited, if the school will accept new binding policies for the \"Hasidic track\". The first version included, among others, the following rules:\n\nThis version was shown to the court, where Justice Levy, himself an Iraqi descendant, quipped on the first rule about the Ashkenazi accent that \"even of you give me a thousand whips I won't be able to talk with a Lithuania'n accent\".\nHowever, a Beis Yaakov student clarified: \"The teacher instructs one accent for prayer. In the original Beis Yaakov, we were instructed in the Sephardi accent. In the Chassidic Beis Yaakov, they teach the Ashkenazi accent. But no girl is ever corrected if they use their accent from home, never. Yemenites pronounce their Chet's and Ayin's in their [sic] gutteral way, and have a special lilt to the HaMotzi blessing. Those who wish to use the Galicianer accent, which is not taught in either of the Beis Yaakovs, may do so.\"\n\nAfter further deliberations, and by instruction of the court, the first rule was removed. So was the rule about using the \"Modesty laws\" from Rabbi Wosner changed after the court viewed him as \"too strict\", to a \"Panel of authoritative Rabbi's from the Independent Education Center\". The changes were accepted by all parties, including the Hasidic Parents of Emmanuel.\n\nHowever, both, the court and the Ministry, also demanded that the divider be removed; that they reunite the staff room, and use the same dress codes. The Hasidic parents were ready to remove any physical divider, but refused to oblige to the demands to reunite the school, claiming that they wouldn't send their children in one school with the other girls from homes that they don't want their daughters associating with.\n\nUnderstanding the expansion of power of the Israeli Supreme court in the 1990s assists in understanding the Immanuel Beit Yaakov topic. Aharon Barak was President of the Supreme Court of Israel from 1995 to 2006. Richard A. Posner, a senior lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, contrasts the American model of government checks and balances to Aaron Barak's concept of law: \"In Barak's conception of the separation of powers, the judicial power is unlimited... What he means by separation of powers is that the executive and legislative branches are to have no degree of control over the judicial branch... If each of the powers (executive, legislative, and judicial) were administered by a branch that was wholly independent and thus could ignore the others, the result would be chaos. The branches have to be mutually dependent...\n\nProfessor Daphna Barak-Erez has commented: \"One of the most significant impacts of Judge Aaron Barak on Israeli law is found in the change which he led with regard to all matters of justiciability. Under the leadership of Judge Barak, the Supreme Court significantly increased the [range of] fields in which it is [willing to intervene]\".\n\nIn his article, \"Tragedy of Sentencing Error\" Israeli attorney Aviad Visoli provides legal context on the Israeli Supreme Court. Here is a partial English translation:\n\"The only law that falls upon the parents is mandatory education – to register the child in an educational institution and to ensure their continuous attendance. There is no doubt that the parents fulfilled this.\n\n\"On the seventh of April, 2010, the parents were included in the suit.\n\n\"The Supreme Court has no authority to preside in judgment over the parents. Paragraph 15 of the basic law of judgment states the following on the authority of the court: '(The Supreme Court) may give orders to government bodies, municipal bodies, and those individuals who fulfill a public function according to the law. (These orders) can be to force action or to prevent action in the fulfillment of their public duties according to the law.' The Supreme Court has no authority to issue an order against anyone who is not fulfilling a public role. The Court, by law, cannot instruct an individual citizen to send his child to a particular school.\n\n\"Thus, the Supreme Court has no authority to give any order to any private individual who is not fulfilling a public duty. According to the law, the Supreme Court has no authority to order anyone to send his child to any particular school.\n\n\"The Supreme Court is duty bound to enforce the laws passed by the Knesset. It has no authority to create new laws, and certainly not new laws that expand its own authority.\n\n\"The court's decision in ordering the parents to send their daughters to a school they do not wish to is supposedly based upon the law that applies to recalcitrant citizens. However, it appears that this decision itself is illegal as it exceeds the power granted by the legislature. This is not a \"marginal\" violation, but a broad and systemic violation of the law.\"\n\n\"Shurat HaDin\", an organization of human rights, \nfiled a petition on 18 June 2010 for the immediate release of the fathers: \"The Supreme Court is authorized to give orders to those working in a public capacity only, that is, those who are fulfilling a public duty... The law does not allow the Supreme Court to rule on private individuals or to give orders to private individuals, and the court cannot grant itself this authority...\" \nThe head of Shurat HaDin, Attorney Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, clarifies, \"the Supreme Court has stretched its interpretation of the law to its limit. But no reinterpretation can grant authority that the law specifically does not allow.\" \nAttorney Aviad Visoli states that the incarceration was illegal noting that the parents never had a trial, \"each parent should have had a separate trial and been able to give testimony. They were not granted their day in court, not in actuality, not under the law.\"\n\nJournalist Shmuel Kofer comments on judicial activism of the Israeli Supreme Court, \"when judges use their position as a political – ideological platform, this is not merely politicization of justice, nor does it merely invalidate the decisions of the knesset and government, it degrades the Supreme Court itself.\"\n\nLaw professor Daniel Freedman, \"the actions of Edmond Levi show how justice degenerates when 'law is everywhere'.\"\n\nBen-Dror Yemini, journalist on legal affairs for \"Maariv\", comments, \"when there is a case against Sephardim or the religious, Edmond Levy is put at the forefront to avoid any accusations of anti-Sephardic or anti-religious bias.\"\n\nThe Hasidic parents constantly claimed that Levy, an Iraqi descendant and the only Mizrahi/Sephardi judge on the court, took an unusual and personal interest in the case. Rav Luria, the above mentioned spokesperson for the parents claimed that \"The behavior of Justice Levy was strange, to speak mildly. One of the petitioners even said that Levy gave him his email and his cell phone number so that he could be sure to stay up to date on all developments\".\n\nHe then added: \"During the arguments, Edmond Levy spoke as if he was the petitioner. Some of this is reflected in the transcripts. [His comments] give the clear impression, and please allow us to be shocked, [of] interference from the Court in Haredi education. This interference is without precedent, even in the days of Aharon Barak. It lacks any legal basis. The judges just decide according to their gut feelings\".\n\nAttorney Rabbi Mordechai Green, founder of Betzedek, represented the parents before the High Court. In his brief, he pleaded that the Court not allow \"a clash that is of a religious, value-oriented and conscience driven nature, that does serious harm to the legal rights of the parents as anchored in the Basic Laws of the State of Israel... The Court is deviating from its liberal approach in an exceptional way and it is forcing the individual a specific way of behavior that is against his free choice and inner convictions.\n\nOn 6 August 2009, the court ruled unanimously that it considers the division in Emmanuel as segregationist in nature, and it should therefore be ended immediately. There was no hearing, no cross-examination of plaintiffs or defendants.\n\nThe lead judge Edmund Levy wrote the ruling. In his syllabus he quotes the Bass Report, which concluded that there was no ethnic discrimination, and that the separation was based only on religious criteria because the \"Hasidim aren't interested to reveal their daughters to a modern lifestyle, which includes, according to them, inappropriate language and behavior that doesn't match the strict modesty laws they practice\".\n\nAfter a long summary of the events leading up to the ruling, and the legal statues for the case, Levy sums up the legal dilemma:\n\nLevy then determines that:\nAfterward Levy turns to the factual side of the case and finds that:\n\nTherefore:\n\nJudges Edna Arbel and Hanan Melcer agreed to Levy's ruling and added their comments.\n\nLike Levy, Arbel also pointed to the proposed article that all prayers should be in Ashkenazi accent as proof that the \"real intention\" of the separation was segregation between Sephardim and Ashkenazim. She added that the same argument applies to another rule in the proposed school code that \"all students and their parents are required to adhere to the authority of the chosen Ashkenazi Rabbi\", even if they are from Sephardi origin and they should have been allowed to follow the teachings of their own, Sephardic, rabbis. \"This broad and unrestrained requirement through the code shows in my opinion the real desire that stands behind it, to separate between communities and not between different religious levels\". (Although she probably didn't realize that the proposed authoritative Rabbi over the \"whole\" new section, Rabbi Bar-Lev, is himself from Sephardi origin. Nevertheless, the word \"Ashkenazi\" next to Rabbi never appeared in the code). \nRav Shimon Ba’adani of Bnei Brak had been appointed as arbitrator and final authority of the Beis Yaakov Chasidi\n\nAviad Visoli states that the Supreme Court held no hearing, no cross-examination of plaintiffs or defendants, rendering the court's decision illegal.\n\nMelcer wrote longer comments, wherein he tried to compare this ruling to the historic Brown v. Board of Education that ended segregation in the US and outlawed the \"separate but equal\" mentality. he goes farther than his colleagues and declares the \"religious argument\" as a hidden \"camouflage\" for discrimination, without any explanation. He also throws in that, contrary to the United States, religious freedom \"still hasn't gotten constitutional status\" in Israel. In the end he agrees to the ruling of judge Levy.\n\nAt this point the Hasidic parents were already angered with the court, in what they believed to be a forcible meddling of the court in the strict Haredi lifestyle and an attack on their right to self-education, being as the Haredim in Israel have a long and ongoing feud with the High Court whom it views as hostile to the ultra-orthodox Jewish community.\n\nThe parents of the Chassidic school then sent their daughters to a Chassidic school in Bnei Brak. After one day,the court forbid the parents to send their daughters to the school in Bnei Brak or any other school besides the original Beis Yaakov, or even home school them, lest they be held in contempt of court.\n\nAs the start of the new school year approached, the Hasidic parents were determined not to send their daughters in one school with the other, less strict, Haredi pupils, so they tried to find a way that would satisfy the court and still will not force them to compromise on their religious beliefs.\n\n\"Ohel Rachel and Leah\", under the Sephardic Shas-based \"Ma'ayan HaChinuch HaTorani\" education network had been founded in the same year that the Beis Yaakov Chassidi was founded – 2007 (see Bass report, page 6 paragraph 10). 108 students from the original school switched to the new Sephardi school, 104 of those were Sephardi girls.\n\n\"... no one calls the entirely Sephardic Ma'ayan HaChinuch school in Emanuel racist...\"\n\nSome 160 students remained in the old school, about 80 girls in the original section, and 74 in the Hasidic section. Physical dividers were removed. Both sections used the same entrance; uniform; staff room; And so on. The sections were only fully divided during the study hours.\n\nAll the parties involved were satisfied. Ezra Gershi, one of the original petitioners and then mayor of Immanuel, sent an official municipality letter to Yoav Lelum declaring the matter closed.\n\nIn 2010, an additional civil suit was brought before the Supreme Court of Justice by Sephardi Yoav Lalum, who had already initiated a similar suit against a Beit Yaakov school in Jerusalem two years earlier (the earlier suit was thrown out by the court). At this point the Hasidic group established a private school for their students in private apartments. The Supreme Court then fined both schools' operators with 5000 NIS per day (approximately 1300 USD), with the Ministry of Education issuing a closure order for the private school.\n\nOn 15 June 2010 the Israeli Supreme Court ordered the parents of the Chassidic school to return their children to the Immanuel Beit Yaakov, and announced a two-week prison term for any of the parents who had not complied by 16 June. The parents rejected the court order as a violation of religious independence, and voluntarily submitted to incarceration on 17 June.\n\nThis issue has become a cause célèbre for Haredim in Israel, and over 100,000 turned up in Jerusalem for protests against the imprisonment; clerics of both Ashkenazi and Sephardi strains of Israeli Haredi Judaism (including Tuvia Blau and Yaakov Yosef) have also entered into rabbinical negotiations on the issue.\n\nOn 18 June 2010 two of the parents lodged an emergency appeal against their imprisonment. The appeal is on the grounds of lack of due process, since the parents were never given a hearing in their alleged contempt of court. Another appeal was lodged on 20 June 2010 by Shurat Hadin on the grounds that the actions of the court were ultra vires, since the Supreme Court of Justice is explicitly excluded from giving judgement against individuals. That same day, negotiations for withdrawing the complaint fell through.\n\nIt has been noted that the Hasidic stream at the Immanuel school has a much higher percentage of Sephardim than the membership of the Supreme Court. \n\nObservers have noted that the decision by the commission headed by supreme court justice Edmond Levy, to imprison the mothers \"after\" the end of the school year (once the fathers are freed), is contrary to the law stipulating that court-ordered imprisonment can only be used as an inducement to obey court orders, but never as \"punishment\".\n\nThe charges of segregation of students at the Immanuel Beit Yaakov have reflected long-running divisions in Israeli Jewish culture between religious Ashkenazim, religious Sephardim and Mizrahim, and secular Israelis who have resided for most of Israel's history in a system that has allegedly given concessions and jurisdictions to the Jewish religious authorities, in addition to far greater perks to secular institutions, including subsidies for theaters and sports sites. The challenge of the Supreme Court against Ashkenazi religious dictates is also perceived as casting light upon a long-running perception of the High Court as being biased in favor of secular Israeli concerns. Note that the court approved a separate school for the chasidic girls in the 2010 academic year, albeit without funding. A number of sephardic girls whose families consented to the school's modesty code are attending, as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "635785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635785", "title": "John Taylor Gatto", "text": "John Taylor Gatto\n\nJohn Taylor Gatto (December 15, 1935 – October 25, 2018) was an American author and school teacher who taught in the classroom for nearly 30 years. He devoted much of his energy to his teaching career, then, following his resignation, authored several books on modern education, criticizing its ideology, history, and consequences. He is best known for his books \"Dumbing Us Down: the Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling\", and \"The Underground History of American Education: A Schoolteacher’s Intimate Investigation Into the Problem of Modern Schooling\", which is sometimes considered to be his \"magnum opus\".\n\nHe was named New York City Teacher of the Year in 1989, 1990, and 1991, and New York State Teacher of the Year in 1991.\n\nGatto was born to Andrew Michael Mario and Frances Virginia ( Zimmer) Gatto in Monongahela, Pennsylvania, a steel town near Pittsburgh. In his youth he attended public schools throughout the Pittsburgh Metro Area including Swissvale, Monongahela, and Uniontown as well as a Catholic boarding school in Latrobe. He did undergraduate work at Cornell, the University of Pittsburgh, and Columbia, then served in the U.S. Army medical corps at Fort Knox, Kentucky, and Fort Sam Houston, Texas. Following army service he did graduate work at the City University of New York, Hunter College, Yeshiva University, the University of California, Berkeley, and Cornell.\n\nHe worked as a writer and held several odd jobs before borrowing his roommate's license to investigate teaching. Gatto also ran for the New York State Senate, 29th District in 1985 and 1988 as a member of the Conservative Party of New York against incumbent David Paterson. He was named New York City Teacher of the Year in 1989, 1990, and 1991, and New York State Teacher of the Year in 1991. In 1991, he wrote a letter announcing his retirement, titled \"I Quit, I Think\", to the op-ed pages of the \"Wall Street Journal,\" saying that he no longer wished to \"hurt kids to make a living.\" He then began a public speaking and writing career, and has received several awards from libertarian organizations, including the \"Alexis de Tocqueville Award for Excellence in Advancement of Educational Freedom\" in 1997.\n\nGatto promoted homeschooling, and specifically unschooling and open source learning. Wade A. Carpenter, associate professor of education at Berry College, has called his books \"scathing\" and \"one-sided and hyperbolic, [but] not inaccurate\" and describes himself as in agreement with Gatto.\n\nGatto was featured in the 2011 documentary film, \"IndoctriNation: Public Schools and the Decline of Christianity in America\", and worked on a 3-part documentary about compulsory schooling, titled \"The Fourth Purpose\". He says he was inspired by Ken Burns's \"Civil War\".\n\nIn 2011, Gatto had two major strokes which occurred after he completed the filming of \"The Ultimate History Lesson: A Weekend with John Taylor Gatto\" which was released in early 2012 by Tragedy and Hope Communications.\n\nGatto asserts the following regarding what school does to children in \"Dumbing Us Down\":\n\n\nHe also draws a contrast between communities and “networks,” with the former being healthy, and schools being examples of the latter. He says networks have become an unhealthy substitute for community in the United States.\n\nAn article published online by the Foundation for Economic Education described John Taylor Gatto as having mentored \"millions of people in writing their own scripts\". In his book, \"Dumbing us Down\", John Gatto urged parents to control the education of their children. He made a critical analysis of state education and described the system as comprehensive, informal, historical, and philosophical. John wrote several profound lectures which disclosed a significant conclusion which encouraged splitting institutional schools and removing certification from teaching. His belief was privatization of education along with a free market system was the most viable option. Gatto's book serves as inspiration for education advocates and the inception of Praxis tests. This testing measured academic competence and knowledge of specific subjects required for teaching. Praxis tests are taken by potential educators as part of certification required by state and professional licensing entities.\n\n[http://www.losttoolspress.com/ * '[The Adventures of Snider, the CIA Spider<nowiki>]]</nowiki>' (2017, Lost Tools Press) ]ISBNISBN\n\n\nOther critics of public education:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40183491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40183491", "title": "Joseph Kargé", "text": "Joseph Kargé\n\nJoseph Kargé (July 4, 1823 in Poznan, Grand Duchy of Posen, Kingdom of Prussia – December 27, 1892 in New York City) was a military officer and educator. He was involved in the unsuccessful 1848 revolutions in Poland and was sentenced to death. He fled to France, then England, and arrived in New York City in 1851 as a political refugee. He taught classes in classical literature and foreign languages until the Civil War. He was commissioned the military as lieutenant colonel in the 1st New Jersey Volunteer Cavalry. He was wounded at the Second Battle of Bull Run in 1862, did not heal fully, and was rendered inactive for most of the War. A later Congressional Record from 1894 noted he suffered a gunshot wound that effectively ended his career in the military.\n\nKargé was promoted to colonel of the new 2nd New Jersey Volunteer Cavalry in November 1863 and took part in raids of Tennessee and Alabama. His victory over General Nathan Bedford Forrest at Bolivar, Tennessee, resulted in a rare cavalry victory over Forrest, who developed a reputation as a superb cavalry leader. In December 1864 Col. Kargé led the 1st. Brigade of Brig. Gen. Benjamin Grierson's 2nd Cavalry Division. The 1st. Brigade included the 2nd New Jersey Cavalry – Lt. Col. P. Jones Yorke, 7th Indiana Cavalry – Capt. J. H. Elliott, 4th Missouri Cavalry – Capt. Hencke, and the 1st Mississippi Rifles.\n\nKargé was brevetted brigadier general by Lincoln on March 13, 1865, \"for gallant and meritorious services during the war\" at the recommendation of Benjamin Grierson.\n\nKargé briefly rejoined the regular army in 1867 and served in Arizona with the 8th U.S. Cavalry. His service was cut short when he resigned in 1871. In the latter part of his life, he taught literature at Princeton University for the next twenty years of his life.\n"}
{"id": "6440482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6440482", "title": "Kenneth Koedinger", "text": "Kenneth Koedinger\n\nKenneth R. Koedinger (born 1962 in Wisconsin) is a professor of human–computer interaction and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University. He is the founding and current director of the Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center. He is widely known for his role in the development of the Cognitive Tutor software. He is also widely published in cognitive psychology, intelligent tutoring systems, and educational data mining, and his research group has repeatedly won \"Best Paper\" awards at scientific conferences in those areas, such as the EDM2008 Best Paper, ITS2006 Best Paper, ITS2004 Best Paper, and ITS2000 Best Paper.\n\nKoedinger received his bachelor's degree in Mathematics and Computer Science from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, working with Richard Lehrer, and his M.S. in Computer Science from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He then obtained his Ph.D. in Cognitive Psychology from Carnegie Mellon University. His doctoral advisor was John Robert Anderson. \n\nKoedinger worked as a Research Scientist in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University. Eventually, Koedinger became an Associate Professor and subsequently a Professor at Carnegie Mellon University. He has had many prestigious graduate students and post-doctoral fellows, in particular Neil Heffernan and Vincent Aleven.\n\nKnowledge-Learning-Instruction Framework (KLI Framework)\n\nKoedinger studied and developed the KLI framework of Learning Science. In 2012, Koedinger, along with his colleague Albert Corbett from the HCII and Charles Perfetti from the University of Pittsburgh, introduced the Knowledge-Learning-Instruction framework. The propositions within the KLI framework can help generate research questions within specific domains and instructional situations that, with further work, yield precise and falsifiable predictions. The KLI framework relates a set of observable and unobservable events: Learning Events, Instructional Events, Assessment Events and Knowledge Components.\n\nCognitive Tutor\n\nKoedinger has a huge contribution to the Intelligent Tutoring System (ITS), and developed several cognitive tutor software to aid the traditional classroom learning. Among which the \"Cognitive Tutor Algebra\" is one of the precursors of the ITS. In 2006, Koedinger and Albert Corbett invented the Cognitive Tutor Algebra from their Cognitive Tutor research. It is intended to provide students with immediate step by step hints and feedback, which traditional classroom practice can not provide.\n\nIn 2011, Koedinger, and his colleagues Ido Roll, Vincent Aleven and Bruce McLaren introduced the Help Tutor, an enhanced version of the Geometry Cognitive Tutor that is capable of giving immediate metacognitive feedback on students' help-seeking errors. As an enhanced version, the Help Tutor teaches help-seeking skills by giving metacognitive feedback on students' help-seeking errors in the context of learning a domain-specific problem-solving skill. The Help Tutor messages include only domain-independent metacognitive content for several reasons: to encourage students to focus more on the metacognitive feedback (and not be distracted by domain content), to help students generalize the help-seeking skills, and to make the Help Tutor reusable with different Cognitive Tutors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7952559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952559", "title": "Les Glénans", "text": "Les Glénans\n\nLes Glénans is a French sailing school, operating as a non-profit organization. Most of its instructors are volunteers. It was founded in 1947 by Philippe and Hélène Viannay, who had been involved with the French Resistance during World War II. Its first site was the Glénan archipelago, about off the coast of southern Brittany. Among its first boats was a 12-meter Bermudian cutter called Sereine, which is now a French listed monument and still sails after having been entirely refurbished in 2005.\n\nIts headquarters are in Paris, France, and it operates five sites in France: Paimpol, l'Ile-d'Arz and l'Archipel (as the Glénan archipelago is referred to by Glénans adepts) in Brittany, Marseillan in Southern France and Bonifacio in Corsica. Sailing takes place in most of the western Mediterranean basin, the UK, Ireland, Norway and Sweden. Cruises cross the Atlantic Ocean and, in the past, have visited Iceland.\n\nLes Glénans teaches catamaran sailing, dinghy sailing, kite surfing and windsurfing, but 70% of its activity is yachting. Every year up to 14,000 students and 800 instructors sail for 100,000 days.\n\nThe school also issues a book on sailing techniques. Initially, the idea of gathering knowledge on sailing and basic ship maintenance was for internal purpose as the founders were not seasoned sails men. They gathered information by being taught by local fishermen and sailors, organized the knowledge and improved it with experience and feedback from their members. Year after year, this book (called in French \"Cours de navigation des Glénans\") grew, and is now considered as a \"must have\" by sailing enthusiasts.\n\nThe fleet of Les Glénans consists of a wide variety of boats which are usually adapted specially for the purposes of the school. On the water, these boats are usually recognizable by a red stripe across the mainsail.\n\n"}
{"id": "41963608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41963608", "title": "List of diplomatic training institutions", "text": "List of diplomatic training institutions\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of diplomatic training institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "20602336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20602336", "title": "Manager Tools Podcast", "text": "Manager Tools Podcast\n\nThe Manager Tools Podcast, founded in 2005, is a weekly audio podcast by Michael Auzenne and Mark Horstman, which focuses on career advice and helping managers become more effective. It was awarded People's Choice Podcast from Podcast Awards in 2008, and won the Best Business Podcast award in 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2012.In 2016, was awarded as the Legacy show in Business \n\nThe podcast hosts, Mark Horstman and Mike Auzenne, are both graduates of West Point, the United States Military Academy, which is where they met.\n\nMichael Auzenne spent nearly two decades in Corporate America as a manager and executive. His corporate career includes executive assignments in technology and Program Management for MCI Inc. and Bell Atlantic as well as several entrepreneurial pursuits in the restaurant and retail fitness industries.\n\nMark Horstman was a manager and executive in sales and marketing at Procter & Gamble. Mark has been coaching and training managers and executives since 1988.\n\nHorstman and Auzenne learned about podcasting in 2005 and decided that this could be a way to disseminate their knowledge about effective management. Auzenne said he didn’t want to create a model where he would only give away half of a solution and then require the audience to pay for the rest of the solution. The co-founders have stated that they believe they can change the world by changing management, and that the way to change it is one manager at a time. After starting with the weekly free podcasts, both hosts completely dedicated their work time, and became co-founders of Manager Tools LLC, a management consulting firm. They regularly consult to and train managers in Fortune 1000 companies around the world. Their company also sells transcripts of the podcasts on-line through membership, and they organize public and in-company conferences to practice the Manager Tools. As of 2012, the company has five full-time employees.\n\nThe first \"Manager Tools\" podcast was published on June 26, 2005., with the first \"Career Tools\" podcast published on December 4, 2008. The first live podcast was recorded with an audience after a conference and was published on October 31, 2010. The 500th podcast of the company was published on January 1, 2012. \n\nOn January 25th, 2015 Manager Tools cast series delivered the 500th episode and reached 250+Million Downloads \n\nThe podcasts use no advertisement and most incoming links on the internet are from comments by passionate users. The tools they teach are now also being cited by education institutions. The hosts have done talks in prestigious schools such as Robert R. McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science and Kellogg School of Management Most of the podcast increase in the number of listeners comes from personal recommendations as well as the effect of the Podcast Awards\n\nManager Tools podcast: Every Manager Effective and Career Tools podcast: Every Professional Productive are trademarks of Manager Tools LLC since September 2012.\n\nMost casts are about 30–40 minutes long, presented as a dialogue between the two hosts. They cover a specific topic related to management or career development. Casts start with an overview of the points to be discussed, followed by the discussion point by point, and end with a summary of the points discussed.\n\nManager Tools main podcasts are available on the webpage and also through iTunes and RSS feeds. The podcasts often refer to each other which in the past has created issues with new listeners. In order to help them, a collection of 'basics' casts has been created and is available on their website as well. Those cover mostly 'The Management Trinity' as well as additional basic notions.\n\nManager Tools casts help \"90 percent of the people, 90 percent of the time\". And the great majority of the casts are timeless instead of just timely.\n\nManagement is about doing the right things repeatedly. Successful managers do them over and over again; and is about Behaviors.\n\nIn the Podcast, you find many topics that helps on professional life. Such as: Behaviors (There are 5 Manager Tools behaviors), career, communication, development, network, performance, strategy, team and many more. One of the Manager Tools motto is : \"There's a cast for that\".\n\n\nThe Manager Tools \"Basics\" — is a special collection of podcasts on the essentials of effective managerial behavior and the base of all the Manager Tools advanced material.\n\nThe podcasts are often articulated around the 'Manager Tools Philosophy'. Its main parts are 'The Management Trinity' and the 'Horstman's Laws'. The founders focus on specific action steps that managers can apply to their job as opposed to theoretical management models.\n\nThe hosts also provide for a fee access to special set of podcasts with more specific themes and with more detailed information on those topics, covering among other:\n\n\nThe hosts often refers to the 'Management Trinity': One on Ones, Feedback, and Coaching, plus their silent fourth partner, Delegation. These are at the heart of everything Manager Tools recommends. All Of The Manager Tools Trinity Tools are \"Teachable Equivalents\" that the hosts have developed. Most casts are based on these tools.\n\nThey usually include:\n\nOther foundational principles as described in the 'basics' podcasts include:\n\nManager Tools podcasts often refer to the DISC assessment when adapting management and communication styles to individuals.\n\nThe DiSC model provides nonjudgmental language for exploring behavioral issues across four personality traits (Dominance, Influence, Steadiness and Conscientious.) These four traits can be grouped in a grid with \"D\" and \"I\" sharing the top row and representing extroverted aspects of the personality, and \"C\" and \"S\" below representing introverted aspects. \"D\" and \"C\" then share the left column and represent task-focused aspects, and \"I\" and \"S\" share the right column and represent social aspects. In this matrix, the vertical dimension represents a factor of \"Assertive\" or \"Passive\", while the horizontal dimension represents \"Open\" vs. \"Guarded\".\n\nThere are also some recurring references to other 'rules' or 'laws'. These are mostly referred to verbally in the podcasts:\n\nManager Tools is incorporated under \"Manager Tools LLC\" and provides multiple services such as :\n\n\nSome casts are only accessible with a free registration. The site offers Individual Licenses. This is in order to fund the project and keep the podcasts advertisement-free. Both co-founders have had multiple offers for sponsorships, but they’ve turned them all away because the advertising model doesn’t currently fit into their model and brand of building trust.\n\nThe Manager Tools Forums are built for public discussions between listeners of the podcasts. Here you can read questions asked by other managers and professionals about workplace situations.\n\nForums are a part of Community in which managers and professionals interact \n\nManager Tools employees (including the hosts) regularly intervene to help the members as well.\n\nManager Tools regularly hosts training conferences around the world. There always is a maximum number of attendees in order to maintain the quality of the delivery. They deliver four types of conferences:\n\n\nOther products and tools available for free, sold or re-sold by Manager Tools include: \n\nSince 2011, Manager tools also provides a mobile version of their website and for podcast navigation.\n\nManager Tools, although slightly biased by US background, aims at creating timeless and universal content. They have listeners all over the world; since 2009, some of the podcasts and knowledge have been adapted in French and, since 2010, was also in German for some time. Those adaptations have been started by enthusiastic listeners of the cast that are willing to invest their time to make the content available to a larger audience (Cedric Watine and his associate Lorry in the French version. Gernot Glawe was in the German version).\n\nOn 12 March 2012, Gernot Glawe, who had been hosting and maintaining the German version of the site, announced its closing by the end of March 2012 and thanked his listeners for the 116.000 downloads of his 68 podcasts.\n\nAs part of internationalization, Manager Tools conferences have been, besides United States, in Europe, Australia and in China (Shanghai).\n\nIn 2016 Mark Horstman and Manager Tools launched \"The Effective Manager\" book \n\nIn 2016 Mark and Mike were interviewed by WSJ \"How to Be a Better Manager in 30 Minutes a Week\" \n\nManager Tools won the People's Choice Podcast Awards in the business category in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2012. In 2008 it also won the overall People's Choice category. Career Tools won the best Business Podcast at the 2010 edition of these awards.\n\nManager Tools was nominated again in 2013 in both categories Peoples Choice and Business.\n\nIn 2014, named one of Fortune's 9 great business podcasts\n\nIn 2014 Mark Horstman was interviewed by MEN'S FITNESS in two occasions.\n\nIn 2014, Career Tools named one of the 10 Must – Watch Podcasts in Letsintern.\n\nIn 2014, Manager Tools \"podcasts\" are downloaded 2.5 million times per month.\n\"The Manager Tools podcast was recognized at the 2007 Podcast and New Media Expo as the Podcast Winner for the category of Business Podcasts. This is an impressive win, considering that over 3280 sites were nominated.\"\n\nThe Manager Tools podcast is downloaded over 80,000 \"times weekly\"; in 140+ \"countries worldwide\"\n\nThe podcast is often recommended for non-native speakers wanting to improve their business English. This is also how Cédric Watine from the French Manager-tools \"Outil du Manager\" discovered the podcasts initially.\n\n\"Although it is US based and intended for managers in the corporate world it's full of practical techniques for managing staff and organisations. It is widely applicable to managers of all kinds, and anyone who has working relationships with other people.\"\n\nManager Tools has an unofficial fan club: \"Created by satisfied listeners.\" Dedicated to promove the resources of the podcasts as well as to provide some color commentary and background about the show and its hosts.\n\nIn 2008, the podcast was reviewed by Small Business Trends Radio. The podcast is often recommended in professional circles as a \"must listen for any new manager\".\n\n\"One of TechNewsRadio.com's favorite podcasts - Manager Tools\"\n\nDecember 21, 2010: \"Career Tools, the podcast focused on actions listeners can take to grow and enhance their careers, has won the Business Category of the People's Choice Podcast Awards. This award recognizes Career Tools commitment to providing actionable guidance to individual professionals.\"\n\nOn December 12, 2011 Chriss Simmons wrote: \"A podcast that, in the short time I’ve been listening to it, has already paid dividends with respect to career growth and professionalism\".\n\nOn February 4, 2011 Geschrieben von S. Hagen wrote: \"For several years I hear when driving regular podcasts. One of my favorite shows is \"Manager Tools\" by Mark Horstman and Mike Auzenne. The two speak in refreshing simplicity and clarity about principles, principles and practices in management. Especially I would like to put your heart into the special \" Horstman's Law of Project Management\". On April 17, 2012 he wrote back and recommended the podcast again.\n\nOn May, 2012 Pulse Magazine interviewed Mark Hosrtman about delegation and how to do it in the Manager Tools way.\n\nOn May 9, 2012 Rick Broida (PCWorld) named Manager Tools podcast as one of his favorite business-minded podcasts: \"If you're a manager, you need this podcast\".\n\nOn October 17, 2012 Joshua Malin (business2community), published:\"Manager Tools probably the richest source of solid information and advice on this listm Manager Tools covers specific topics like soliciting feedback, giving unfavorable performance reviews and shutting down that guy who keeps derailing your meetings.\"\n\nOn November 7, 2012 John Dillard, an EO Charlotte member and president and partner of Big Sky Associates, Inc. published: \"I found two sources of information that I can’t resist sharing because they are concise, persuasive and actionable. I’m hoping that if you’re a leader and you’re reading this post, you can put these two sources to work right away, as I am convinced that OOOs are a very important part of developing and deploying a strategy or significant change effort.\nThe first source is Manager Tools...\".\n\nPodcast has an average of 4.5 stars in Customer Ratings on itunes with 474 ratings (2012).\n\n\"If you're tired of a lot of management theory and would rather learn SPECIFIC actions you can take TODAY to improve your management performance, you'll enjoy the manager tools podcast.\"\n\n\"What sets this podcast apart from the others in the genre of Business Management is that they deliver tools, techniques, processes and steps, as well as the concepts and background needed to successfully implement the practices for excellent and effective management by Business Executives and Managers\"\n\nErik Bernskiold (web designer, consultant and software educator) named Career Tools \"a golden podcast\". \"They do an excellent job of sharing dos and don’ts in order to sharpen your career skills.\"\n\nJulie Taylor (styleandtechformen) named the podcasts in her list \"Top 11 Podcasts to Catch While You Can.\"\n\nJeremy Triplett article \"Manager Tools: The Best Management Advice I Ever Received\", published in the American Society of Crime Lab Directors (ACSLD) Executive Education Digest\n\nDavid Lowe:(Chinese Translation from Manager Tools’ article “Is It You Or Is It Me?”)\n\n"}
{"id": "1356109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356109", "title": "Masaryk University", "text": "Masaryk University\n\nMasaryk University (; ) is the second largest university in the Czech Republic, a member of the Compostela Group and the Utrecht Network. Founded in 1919 in Brno as the second Czech university (after Charles University established in 1348 and Palacký University existent in 1573–1860), it now consists of nine faculties and 35,115 students. It is named after Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, the first president of an independent Czechoslovakia as well as the leader of the movement for a second Czech university.\n\nIn 1960 the university was renamed \"Jan Evangelista Purkyně University\" after Jan Evangelista Purkyně, a Czech biologist. In 1990, following the Velvet Revolution it regained its original name. Since 1922, over 171,000 students have graduated from the university.\n\nMasaryk University was founded on 28 January 1919 with four faculties: Law, Medicine, Science, and Arts. The founding of the second Czech university was possible only after the fall of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy because of the resistance of the German-controlled city council, which feared giving power to the Czech residents of Brno. Brno was at that time a bilingual city. A notable demonstration in favour of establishing a university in Brno happened in 1905.\n\nFrom the beginning, the university suffered from a lack of money for development. The fragile state of public finances in 1923–1925 and 1933–1934 led to proposals to abolish both the Faculty of Arts and the Faculty of Science. Both faculties eventually survived until 17 November 1939 when the whole university was closed following the German occupation of Czechoslovakia. A number of professors of Masaryk University were executed or tortured; for example, the Faculty of Science lost one quarter of its teaching staff. Many of the executions took place in the Mauthausen concentration camp in 1942.\n\nThe renewal of university life after the end of World War II was interrupted by the Communist takeover. The percentage of students expelled in various faculties ranged from 5 percent at the Faculty of Education to 46 percent at the Faculty of Law, which was completely closed in 1950. In 1953, the Faculty of Education (founded in 1946) was separated from the university. In August 1960, a government decree abolished the Pharmaceutical Faculty and the University was renamed \"Jan Evangelista Purkyně University in Brno\".\n\nRelaxation occurred in 1964 with the reintegration of the Faculty of Education into the university and with the reestablishment of the Faculty of Law in 1969. But conditions changed again rapidly with the Normalization of the 1970s after the 1968 invasion of Warsaw Pact troops into Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe University was renamed \"Masaryk University in Brno\" in 1990, then regaining its original name by dropping the \"in Brno\" from the title in 2006. A new era of development began after the Velvet Revolution of 1989 and the establishment of the Faculty of Economics and Administration in 1991, the Faculty of Informatics in 1994, the Faculty of Social Studies in 1998, and the Faculty of Sports Studies in 2002.\n\nA new University campus has been under construction in Brno-Bohunice since 2002. The last stage of development should be completed in 2015. Campus houses most Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Sports Studies, part of Faculty of Sciences as well as several research facilities such as Central European Institute of Technology and Research Centre for Toxic Compounds in the Environment Cetocoen.\n\nIn 2013, university signed a long term lease with the city of Brno, creating University Cinema Scala in place of movie theatre with over 80 years tradition which was closed down in 2011. The place has various academic functions, hosting official university ceremonies as well as lectures and conferences. Cinema's programming is managed by Aeropolis, which shares the costs with the university.\n\nAs of 2014, Masaryk University has over 35,000 students and over 2,200 pedagogical staff and offers over 200 bachelor, 290 masters and 130 doctoral full-time study programs, some of them being offered in English or German as well as in combined form.\n\nThe Office of International Studies helps facilitate incoming and outgoing student mobility. In the 2012/13 academic year the university hosted over 1,000 international students. Students with special needs are assisted by the Teiresiás centre.\n\nThe university opened the Mendel Museum in 2007, creating an exhibition ground dedicated to the popularization of the scientific work and life of Gregor Johann Mendel who conducted his experiments in the Augustinian abbey where the museum is now located. The Mendel Lectures given by the world's top scientists in genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, microbiology and medicine have been held in the Mendel Museum.\n\nThe University Cinema Scala has been operated by the Masaryk University since October 2013 as the first university cinema in the Czech Republic. The Freedom Lecture, a public debate on a current social topic with outstanding personalities has been held annually at the cinema on the occasion of International Students´ Day (Student Seventeen) since 2014.\n\nMasaryk University together with other institutions of higher education participate in CEITEC – a research centre for both basic and applied research in the field of life sciences.\n\nThe university owns and operates Mendel Polar Station in Antarctica. The station facilitates basic biological, geological and climatological research. The station was built in 2005 and 2006 and is staffed during Antarctic summers.\n\nThe Technology Transfer Office of Masaryk University was established in 2005 and aims to put research results into practice and support and facilitate cooperation between the scientific community and industry.\n\nThe university is a highly research-intensive institution. It puts \"a great deal of emphasis on international cooperation with prestigious foreign universities and [other] research institutions\". The university has maintained its position within the world best 600 universities for years 2016-2018. Amongst all universities in the EU-countries joined the EU since 2004, Masaryk University was ranked at 7. According to a recent ranking by QS Students City, the Masaryk university shares fifth place worldwide with Berlin, Vienna, Stockholm and Amsterdam before New York, London and Sydney but behind Prague in the category \"student's view\".\nMasaryk University has over 170,000 alumni, some of the notable ones are listed here. The most accomplished scientists include astronomer Jiří Grygar and Luboš Kohoutek, mathematician Otakar Borůvka, psychiatrist Leo Eitinger, sociologist Miloslav Petrusek, paediatric geneticist Renata Laxova and anthropologist Jaroslav Malina. Paleontologist Josef Augusta, who together with illustrator Zdeněk Burian created accurate reconstructions representing all forms of prehistoric life. Neurologist Michal Vytopil also attended the university.\n\nAlumni politicians include former Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Nečas, Governor of South Moravian Region Michal Hašek, former Minister of Health Tomáš Julínek or as of 2014, the leader of Czech Green Party Ondřej Liška. Politician, dissident, human rights activist Jaroslav Šabata also studied there. Martin Palouš is Permanent Representative to the United Nations of the Czech republic (2006– ), before he was Ambassador to the United States for the Czech Republic between 2001 and 2005.\n\nAlumni also include Marketa Lazarová director František Vláčil, playwright Milan Uhde, composer Antonín Tučapský and poets Jan Skácel and Ivan Blatný.\n\nAthlete Šárka Kašpárková and ice hockey players Jiří Holík and Josef Augusta also attended the university.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49331770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49331770", "title": "Mendel Lectures", "text": "Mendel Lectures\n\nThe Mendel Lectures is a series of lectures given by the world´s top scientists in genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, microbiology, medicine and related areas which has been held in the refectory of the Augustian Abbey of St. Thomas in Brno, Czech Republic since May 2003. The lectures were established to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the discovery of the structure of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) by James Watson (1928) and Francis Crick (1916-2004). The Mendel Lectures are named in honour of Gregor Johann Mendel (1822-1884), the founder of genetics, who lived and worked in the Augustinian Abbey in Brno 1843-1884. Based on his experiments conducted in the abbey between 1856 and 1863, Mendel established the basic rules of heredity, now referred to as the laws of Mendelian inheritance. The Mendel Lectures are organized by the Masaryk University, the Mendel Museum, the St. Anne´s University Hospital Brno, and the Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in Vienna, Austria. The fourteenth season of the Mendel Lectures is running at present. More than 100 top scientists, including many Nobel Prize winners, have visited Brno to give a Mendel Lecture, for example Tim Hunt, Jack W. Szostak, John Gurdon, Elizabeth Blackburn, Paul Nurse, Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Günter Blobel, Kurt Wüthrich, Jules A. Hoffmann, Aaron Ciechanover, Ada Yonath, Paul Modrich, Eric F. Wieschaus and others.\n\nThe first idea of the Mendel Lectures occurred during the international conference ´EMBO Workshop: Genetics after the Genome´ organised by Dieter Schweizer and Kim Nasmyth in 2002. Anna and Kim Nasmyth from Oxford, Imma Mautner Markhof from Austria, Jan Motlík from the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and Jiřina Relichová from the Masaryk University prepared and organized the very first series of Mendel Lectures. They named the series „The Road to the DNA“ and focused the lectures on the historical context of genetics. The two first speakers, Sir Walter Bodmer from Oxford and Charles Weissmann from London, gave their talks in the Augustinian Abbey in Old Brno on May 13, 2003. Subsequent series have addressed more topical scientific findings. Since 2003, more than 90 top scientists, including many Nobel Prize winners, have visited Brno to give a Mendel Lecture.\n\nThe Mendel Lectures are also connected with the establishment of the Mendel Museum and revitalization of scientific activities in the Augustinian Abbey in Old Brno in 2003 in the event of the 50th anniversary of the discovery of the structure of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). The British Council donated a copy of the original photograph of James Watson and Francis Crick and a copy of their model of DNA from 1953 is on loan from Gustav Ammerer to the Mendel Museum.\n\nInitially, the Mendel Lectures were financially supported by the geneticist Gustav Ammerer from Vienna through his charity Vereinigung zur Förderung der Genomforschung, by the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and by the British Council. Realization of the Mendel Lectures have been also supported by the Masaryk University, Authority of the South Moravian Region, the City of Brno, and the IMP Vienna. Between 2012 and 2014 the lectures were funded by the grant of the Czech Ministry of Education and the European Union (project Pluricell). Since 2015, the Mendel Lectures are supported by the International Clinical Research Center of St. Anne´s University Hospital Brno and its project ICRC. From 2016 Masaryk University established Seminar Series and contributes with an essential financial funding.\n\nThe Mendel Lectures are now mainly focused on combining cutting-edge interdisciplinary approaches, technologies and methods of biochemistry, biophysics, molecular biology, computational modelling, imaging, microbiology, cell biology, physiology, genetics, toxicology, developmental biology, evolutionary biology and medicine.\n\nThe program of the Mendel Lectures is prepared by a scientific committee composed of Aaron Ciechanover, Simon Boulton, Kim Nasmyth, Lumír Krejčí and Vít Bryja. The Mendel Lectures are now organized by Lumír Krejčí, Martina Vráblíková and Gabriela Pavlíková from the Masaryk University, Ondřej Dostál and Lucie Vychodilová from the Mendel Museum, St. Anne´s University Hospital Brno, and Manuela Steurer from the Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in Vienna, Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "49546077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49546077", "title": "Mental health in education", "text": "Mental health in education\n\nMental health is often viewed as an adult issue, but in fact, almost half of adolescents in the United States are affected by mental disorders, and about 20% of these are categorized as “severe.” Mental health issues can pose a huge problem for students in terms of academic and social success in school. Education systems around the world treat this topic differently, both directly through official policies and indirectly through cultural views on mental health and well being.\n\nAccording to the National Institute of Mental Health, approximately 46% of American adolescents aged 13-18 will suffer from some form of mental disorder. About 21% will suffer from a disorder that is categorized as “severe,” meaning that the disorder impairs their daily functioning, but almost two-thirds of these adolescents will not receive formal mental health support. The most common types of disorders among adolescents as reported by the NIMH is anxiety disorders (including Generalized Anxiety Disorder, phobias, post-traumatic stress disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and others), with a lifetime prevalence of about 25% in youth aged 13-18 and 6% of those cases being categorized as severe. Next is mood disorders (major depressive disorder, dysthymic disorder, and/or bipolar disorder), with a lifetime prevalence of 14% and 4.7% for severe cases in adolescents. An effect of this high prevalence is high suicide rates among adolescents. Suicide in the United States is the second leading cause of death for adolescents aged 10 to 24. More teenagers and young adults die from suicide than cancer, heart disease, AIDS, birth defects, stroke, pneumonia, influenza, and chronic lung disease combined. There are an average of over 3,470 attempts by students in grades 9–12. Some of these suicides are because of, or in part due to the stress they are under during school. A similarly common disorder is Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which is categorized as a childhood disorder but oftentimes carries through into adolescence and adulthood. The prevalence for ADHD in American adolescents is 9%, and 1.8% for severe cases.\n\nMental disorders can lead to many academic problems, such as poor attendance, difficulties with academic, poor social integration, trouble adjusting to school, problems with behavior regulation, and attention and concentration issues. High school students who screen positive for psychosocial dysfunction report three times as many absent and tardy days as students who do not identify dysfunction, and students with high levels of psychosocial stress are much more likely to view themselves as academically incompetent. This leads to much higher dropout rates and lower overall academic achievement, as well as specific academic and social problems associated with various disorders.\n\nStudents with anxiety disorders are statistically less likely to attend college than those without, and those with social phobias are twice as likely to fail a grade or not finish high school as students who have never had the condition. Anxiety manifests in many of the same ways as ADHD, and so students with anxiety disorders often experience problems concentrating, filtering out distracting external stimuli, and completing multi-step or complicated tasks. Additionally, anxiety disorders can prevent students from seeking or forming social connections, which negatively affects students' sense of belonging and in turn impacts their school experience and academic performance.\n\nAccording to the National Center for Mental Health Checkups at Columbia University, \"High depression scores have been associated with low academic achievement, high scholastic anxiety, increased school suspensions, and decreased ability or desire to complete homework, concentrate, and attend classes.\" Depression symptoms can make it challenging for students to keep up with course loads, or even find the energy to make it through the full school day..\n\nThe U.S. Bureau of Vital Statistics indicates that suicide in the United States exceeds 600 children aged 10 to 19 per year. Some researches estimate that for every successful suicide in adolescence, there are between 50 and 100 unsuccessful attempts. Most suicides reported in Ohio from 1963 to 1965 revealed that they tended to be social outcasts (played no sports, had no hobbies, and were not part of any clubs). They also suggested that half of these students were failing or near-failing at the time of their deaths. These periods of failure and frustration lower the individual's self-concept to a point where they have little sense of self-worth. In fact, students who perceive their academic performance as \"failing\" are three times more likely to attempt suicide than those who perceive their performance to be acceptable.\n\nAttention disorders are the principal predictors of diminished academic achievement. Students with ADHD tend to have trouble mastering behaviors and practices demanded of them by the public education system in the United States, such as the ability to sit still and quietly or to apply themselves to one focused task for extended durations. Much like anxiety, ADHD can mean that students have problems concentration, filtering out distracting external stimuli, and seeing large tasks through to completion. These students can also struggle with time management and organization. \n\nThe United States has done a lot of data gathering and creating statistics of what can wear away at a student’s mental health, but few widely known policies have been put in place at the national level. School systems within the United States, either on the state or city/county level, seem to typically make decisions on what mental health policies should be included.\nThere has been a growing popularity with school based mental health services in United States public school systems, in which schools have their students covered for mental health care. This concept has potential to allow students to have access to services that can help them understand and work through any stressors they may face within their schooling, as well as a better chance of intervention for those students who need it.\n\nIn Canada, the Mental Health Strategy highlights the importance of mental health promotion, stigma reduction, and early recognition of mental health problems in schools to be a priority (Mental Health Commission, 2012). Implementing comprehensive school health and post-secondary mental health initiatives that promote mental health and prevention for those at risk was recommended by the Mental Health Commission of Canada. A major focus of school programming is to promote positive mental health to all students instead of just doing so to those already identified as having a mental health problem. This is a preventative measure as it seeks to promote well-being and emotional regulation in all students to avoid mental health problems from further occurring or escalating. \n\nIn Bhutan, efforts toward developing education began in 1961 thanks to Ugyen Wangchuck and the introduction of the First Development Plan, which provided free primary education. By 1998, 400 schools were established. Students' tuition, books, supplies, equipment, and food were all free for boarding schools in the 1980s, and some schools also provided their students with clothing. The assistance of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organizations' World Food Programme allowed free midday meals in some primary schools. This governmental assistance is important to note in the country's Gross National Happiness (GNH), which is at the forefront of developmental policies and is the responsibility of the government.. Article 9 of the Constitution of Bhutan states that \"the state shall strive to promote those conditions that will enable the pursuit of Gross National Happiness.\"\nGNH in Bhutan is based on four principles: sustainable and equitable economic development, conservation of the environment, preservation and promotion of culture, and good governance. Their constitution prescribes that the state will provide free access to public health services through a three-tiered health system which provides preventative, promotive, and curative services. Because of this policy, Bhutan was able to eliminate iodine deficiency disorder in 2003, leprosy in 1997, and achieved childhood immunization for all children in 1991. It became the first country to ban tobacco in 2004, and cases of malaria decreased from 12,591 cases in 1999 to 972 cases in 2009. The elimination of these diseases and the strong push for GNH allows for all people (including adolescents who are provided with many necessary items and free education) to live happier lives than they otherwise may have had.\n\nThe Department for Educationin United Kingdom is working on developing a whole organizational approach to support mental health and character education. A joint report published in October 2017 from the Departments for Education and Health outline this approach with regards to staff training, raising awareness of mental health challenges that children face, and involvement of parents and families in students' mental health.\n\nREACH is a program in Singapore that looks to provide interventions for students struggling with mental illness. A quote from the REACH website reads, \"The majority of children and adolescents do not suffer from mental illness. However, when a student has been identified, the school counselor, with consultation from the school’s case management team, will look into managing the care of the student. When necessary, guidance specialists and educational psychologists from the Ministry of Education will render additional support.\n\nIn 2010, the Voluntary Welfare Organisations (VWOs), in collaboration with National Council of Social Service (NCSS), have also been invited to join this network to provide community and clinical support to at-risk children.\nStudents/children with severe emotional and behavioural problems may need more help. The REACH team collaborates with school counsellors/VWOs to provide suitable school-based interventions to help these students. Such school/VWO based interventions often provide the requisite, timely help that these students/children need.\nFurther specialised assessment or treatment may be necessary for more severe cases. The student/child may be referred to the Child Guidance Clinic after assessment by the REACH team for further psychiatric evaluation and intervention. These interventions may include medications, psychotherapy, group or family work and further assessments.\"\n\nTraditionally, mental health was not considered a part of public health in Mexico because of other health priorities, lack of knowledge about the true magnitude of mental health problems, and a complex approach involving the intervention of other sectors in addition to the public health sector. Among the key documents anticipating the policy change was a report presented by the Mexican Health Foundation in 1995, which opened a very constructive debate. It introduced basic tenets for health improvement, elements for an analysis of the health situation related to the burden of disease approach, and a strategic proposal with concurrent recommendations for reforming the system. Mexico has an extensive legal frame of reference dealing with health and mental health. The objectives are to promote a healthy psychosocial development of different population groups, and reduce the effects of behavioural and psychiatric disorders. This should be achieved through graded and complementary interventions, according to the\nlevel of care, and with the coordinated participation of the public, social, and private sectors in municipal, state, and national settings. The strategic lines consider training and qualification of human resources, growth, rehabilitation, and regionalization of\nmental health service networks, formulation of guidelines and evaluation. All age groups as well as specific sub-populations (indigenous groups, women, street children, populations in disaster areas), and other state and regional priorities are considered.\n\nIn Japan and China, the approach to mental health is focused on the collective of students, much like the national aims of these Asian countries. Much like in the US, there is much research done in the realm of student mental health, but not many national policies in place to prevent and aid mental health problems students face. Japanese students face considerable academic pressure as imposed by society and school systems. In 2006, Japanese police gathered notes left from students who had committed suicide that year and noted overarching school pressures as the primary source of their problems . Additionally, the dynamic of collective thinking—the centripetal force of Japan’s society, wherein individual identity is sacrificed for the functioning benefit of a greater collective—results in the stigmatization of uniqueness. As child psychiatrist Dr. Ken Takaoka explained to CNN, schools prioritize this collectivism, and “children who do not get along in a group will suffer.”\n\nSome schools may need recognize that they are not just an institution, but are intended to help shape the lives of students and allow them to participate meaningfully in a social aspect of this environment. Psychologically, this can overshadow the academic aspect, yet often little heed is given. Athletics, faculty-student relationships, clubs, and other social activities are important so that no student is left in a \"social limbo year after year.\" The pressures of school, extracurricular activities, work and relationships with friends and family can be a lot for an individual to manage and at times can be overwhelming. In order to prevent these overwhelming feelings from turning into a mental health problem, taking measures to prevent these emotions from escalating is essential. School-based programs that help students with emotional-regulation, stress management, conflict resolution, and active coping and cognitive restructuring are a few suggested ways that give students resources that can promote their mental health (Mental Health Commission, 2012). Educators need to pay as much attention to the well-being of their students as they do on the academic aspect to ensure they are setting their students up for success in the future.\n\nBelongingness in the school environment may be the most important and relevant factors affecting students' performance in an academic setting. School-related stress and an increase in academic expectations may increase school-related stress and in turn negatively affect their academic performance. The absence of social acceptance have been shown to lead lowered interest and engagement because students have difficulty sustaining engagement in environments where they do not feel valued and welcome.\n\n"}
{"id": "1684561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684561", "title": "Method of loci", "text": "Method of loci\n\nThe method of loci (\"loci\" being Latin for \"places\") is a method of memory enhancement which uses visualizations with the use of spatial memory, familiar information about one's environment, to quickly and efficiently recall information. The method of loci is also known as the memory journey, memory palace, or mind palace technique. This method is a mnemonic device adopted in ancient Roman and Greek rhetorical treatises (in the anonymous \"Rhetorica ad Herennium\", Cicero's \"De Oratore\", and Quintilian's \"Institutio Oratoria\"). Many memory contest champions claim to use this technique to recall faces, digits, and lists of words.\n\nThe term is most often found in specialised works on psychology, neurobiology, and memory, though it was used in the same general way at least as early as the first half of the nineteenth century in works on rhetoric, logic, and philosophy. John O'Keefe and Lynn Nadel refer to:'the method of loci', an imaginal technique known to the ancient Greeks and Romans and described by Yates (1966) in her book \"The Art of Memory\" as well as by Luria (1969). In this technique the subject memorizes the layout of some building, or the arrangement of shops on a street, or any geographical entity which is composed of a number of discrete loci. When desiring to remember a set of items the subject 'walks' through these loci in their imagination and commits an item to each one by forming an image between the item and any feature of that locus. Retrieval of items is achieved by 'walking' through the loci, allowing the latter to activate the desired items. The efficacy of this technique has been well established (Ross and Lawrence 1968, Crovitz 1969, 1971, Briggs, Hawkins and Crovitz 1970, Lea 1975), as is the minimal interference seen with its use.\n\nThe items to be remembered in this mnemonic system are mentally associated with specific physical locations. The method relies on memorized spatial relationships to establish order and recollect memorial content. It is also known as the \"Journey Method\", used for storing lists of related items, or the \"Roman Room\" technique, which is most effective for storing unrelated information.\n\nMany effective memorisers today use the \"method of loci\" to some degree. Contemporary memory competition, in particular the World Memory Championship, was initiated in 1991 and the first United States championship was held in 1997. Part of the competition requires committing to memory and recalling a sequence of digits, two-digit numbers, alphabetic letters, or playing cards. In a simple method of doing this, contestants, using various strategies well before competing, commit to long-term memory a unique vivid image associated with each item. They have also committed to long-term memory a familiar route with firmly established stop-points or loci. Then in the competition they need only deposit the image that they have associated with each item at the loci. To recall, they retrace the route, \"stop\" at each locus, and \"observe\" the image. They then translate this back to the associated item. For example, Ed Cooke, a World Memory Champion Competitor, describes to Josh Foer in his book \"Moonwalking with Einstein\" how he uses the method of loci. First, he describes a very familiar location where he can clearly remember many different smaller locations like his sink in his childhood home or his dog's bed. Cooke also advises that the more outlandish and vulgar the symbol used to memorize the material, the more likely it will stick.\n\nMemory champions elaborate on this by combining images. Eight-time World Memory Champion Dominic O'Brien uses this technique. The 2006 World Memory Champion, Clemens Mayer, used a 300-point-long journey through his house for his world record in \"number half marathon\", memorising 1040 random digits in a half-hour. Gary Shang has used the method of loci to memorise pi to over 65,536 (2) digits.\n\nUsing this technique a person with ordinary memorisation capabilities, after establishing the route stop-points and committing the associated images to long-term memory, with less than an hour of practice, can remember the sequence of a shuffled deck of cards. The world record for this is held by Simon Reinhard at 21.19 seconds.\n\nThe technique is taught as a metacognitive technique in learning-to-learn courses. It is generally applied to encoding the key ideas of a subject. Two approaches are:\n\nThe method of loci has also been shown to help sufferers of depression remember positive, self-affirming memories.\n\nA study at the University of Maryland evaluated participants ability to accurately recall two sets of familiar faces, using a traditional desktop, and with a head-mounted display. The study was designed to leverage the method of loci technique, with virtual environments resembling memory palaces. The study found an 8.8% recall improvement in favor of the head-mounted display, in part due to participants being able to leverage their vestibular and proprioceptive sensations.\n\nThe \"Rhetorica ad Herennium\" and most other sources recommend that the method of loci should be integrated with elaborative encoding (i.e., adding visual, auditory, or other details) to strengthen memory. However, due to the strength of spatial memory, simply mentally placing objects in real or imagined locations without further elaboration can be effective for simple associations.\n\nA variation of the \"method of loci\" involves creating imaginary locations (houses, palaces, roads, and cities) to which the same procedure is applied. It is accepted that there is a greater cost involved in the initial setup, but thereafter the performance is in line with the standard loci method. The purported advantage is to create towns and cities that each represent a topic or an area of study, thus offering an efficient filing of the information and an easy path for the regular review necessary for long term memory storage.\n\nSomething that is likely a reference to the \"method of loci\" techniques survives to this day in the common English phrases \"in the first place\", \"in the second place\", and so forth.\n\nThe technique is also used for second language vocabulary learning, as polyglot Timothy Doner described in his 2014 TED talk. The method is further described in Anthony Metiver's book \"How to learn and memorise German vocabulary\". What the author suggests is creating a memory palace for each letter of the German alphabet. Each memory palace then shall include a number of loci where an entry (a word or a phrase) can be stored and recalled whenever you need it.\n\nThe designation is not used with strict consistency. In some cases it refers broadly to what is otherwise known as the art of memory, the origins of which are related, according to tradition, in the story of Simonides of Ceos and the collapsing banquet hall. For example, after relating the story of how Simonides relied on remembered seating arrangements to call to mind the faces of recently deceased guests, Stephen M. Kosslyn remarks \"[t]his insight led to the development of a technique the Greeks called the method of loci, which is a systematic way of improving one's memory by using imagery.\" Skoyles and Sagan indicate that \"an ancient technique of memorization called Method of Loci, by which memories are referenced directly onto spatial maps\" originated with the story of Simonides. Referring to mnemonic methods, Verlee Williams mentions, \"One such strategy is the 'loci' method, which was developed by Simonides, a Greek poet of the fifth and sixth centuries BC.\" Loftus cites the foundation story of Simonides (more or less taken from Frances Yates) and describes some of the most basic aspects of the use of space in the art of memory. She states, \"This particular mnemonic technique has come to be called the \"method of loci\". While place or position certainly figured prominently in ancient mnemonic techniques, no designation equivalent to \"method of loci\" was used exclusively to refer to mnemonic schemes relying upon space for organization.\n\nIn other cases the designation is generally consistent, but more specific: \"The Method of Loci is a Mnemonic Device involving the creation of a Visual Map of one's house.\"\n\nThis term can be misleading: the ancient principles and techniques of the art of memory, hastily glossed in some of the works, cited above, depended equally upon images \"and\" places. The designator \"method of loci\" does not convey the equal weight placed on both elements. Training in the art or arts of memory as a whole, as attested in classical antiquity, was far more inclusive and comprehensive in the treatment of this subject.\n\nBrain scans of \"superior memorizers\", 90% of whom use the method of loci technique, have shown that it involves activation of regions of the brain involved in spatial awareness, such as the medial parietal cortex, retrosplenial cortex, and the right posterior hippocampus. The medial parietal cortex is most associated with encoding and retrieving of information. Patients who have medial parietal cortex damage have trouble linking landmarks with certain locations; many of these patients are unable to give or follow directions and often get lost. The retrosplenial cortex is also linked to memory and navigation. In one study on the effects of selective granular retrosplenial cortex lesions in rats, the researcher found that damage to the retrosplenial cortex led to impaired spatial learning abilities. Rats with damage to this area failed to recall which areas of the maze they had already visited, rarely explored different arms of the maze, almost never recalled the maze in future trials, and took longer to reach the end of the maze, as compared to rats with a fully working retrosplenial cortex.\n\nIn a classic study in cognitive neuroscience, O'Keefe and Nadel proposed \"that the hippocampus is the core of a neural memory system providing an objective spatial framework within which the items and events of an organism's experience are located and interrelated.\"\n\nIn a more recent study, memory champions during resting periods did not exhibit specific regional brain differences, but distributed functional brain network connectivity changes compared to control subjects. When volunteers trained use of the method of loci for six weeks, the training-induced changes in brain connectivity were similar to the brain network organization that distinguished memory champions from controls.\n\nFictional portrayals of the method of loci extend as far back as ancient Greek myths. The method of loci also features prominently in the BBC series \"Sherlock\", in which the titular main character uses a \"mind palace\" to store information. In the original Arthur Conan Doyle stories, Sherlock Holmes referred to his brain as an attic. In \"Hannibal Rising\" by Thomas Harris, a detailed description of Hannibal Lecter's memory palace is provided.\n"}
{"id": "47568305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47568305", "title": "Mines ParisTech: Professional Ranking of World Universities", "text": "Mines ParisTech: Professional Ranking of World Universities\n\nMines ParisTech: Professional Ranking of World Universities is a University ranking by the French Grande école Mines ParisTech.\n\nThe ranking is based on the number of alumni currently holding the post of CEO in one of the 500 largest companies in the world according to the Fortune Global 500 ranking established by the American business magazine \"Fortune\".\n\nThese are the highest ranking 37 institutions (out of 392):\nThis ranking is more international than certain other rankings because it uses the Fortune Global 500. It does not concentrate only on English-speaking countries but also includes Asian, Latin American, and European universities.\n\nThe \"Global Companies Rank Universities\" by the \"New York Times\" is similar to this ranking.\n"}
{"id": "47215400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47215400", "title": "Musoma Alliance Secondary School", "text": "Musoma Alliance Secondary School\n\nMusoma Alliance Secondary School is a government secondary school situated in Musoma, Mara Region, Tanzania.\n\n"}
{"id": "2580091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2580091", "title": "Nadine Lambert", "text": "Nadine Lambert\n\nNadine Lambert (October 21, 1926 – April 26, 2006) was an American psychology and education professor. She founded the school psychology program at the University of California, Berkeley, created new instruments for school psychology use, and studied the course of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Lambert was a member of the board of directors of the American Psychological Association from 1984 to 1987.\n\nLambert was born in Ephraim, Utah, and raised in West Hollywood, California. After earning an undergraduate degree at the University of California, Los Angeles and a master's degree at Cal State University Los Angeles, she received a Ph.D. in psychology from University of Southern California. Her doctoral studies focused on psychometrics. \n\nShe taught at University of California, Berkeley and founded the school psychology program at the education school in 1964, her first year there. The National Institute of Mental Health supported the program for 18 years. Lambert's latest research was on the measurement of adaptive functioning, and on the developmental course of ADHD. A Fellow of the American Psychological Association, she has also served on its board of directors (1984–87) and chaired its Board of Educational Affairs from 1992-94. Lambert wrote such instruments in school psychology as the AAMD Adaptive Behavior Scale (1981 and 1993 editions) and the Children’s Attention and Adjustment Survey (1992).\n\nLambert's other writings include \"Educational Reform: Challenges for Psychology and Psychologists,\" in \"Professional Psychology\" (1996); \"Adolescent Outcomes for Hyperactive Children: Perspectives on General and Specific Patterns of Childhood Risk for Adolescent Educational, Social, and Mental Health Problems,\" in \"American Psychologist\" (1988); \"Persistence of Hyperactive Symptoms from Childhood to Adolescence,\" in \"American Journal of Orthopsychiatry\" (1987); and \"Conceptual Foundations for School Psychology: Perspectives from the Development of the School Psychology Program at Berkeley,\" in \"Professional School Psychologist\" (1986). She also edited the volume \"How Children Learn: Reforming Schools through Learner-Centered Education\" (1998).\n\nShe was involved in several controversies. In 1995, she was one of 52 signatories on \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence,\" an editorial written by Linda Gottfredson and published in the \"Wall Street Journal\", which declared the consensus of the signing scholars on issues related to the controversy about intelligence research that followed the publication of the book \"The Bell Curve\". At the 1998 National Institutes of Health Consensus Conference on AD/HD, she announced the results of a study suggesting that use of Ritalin might contribute to later drug abuse. Of nearly 400 children with ADHD, those treated with Ritalin as children had double the rates of cocaine use and cigarette smoking as young adults, compared to those who had not taken Ritalin in childhood.\n\nShe was killed in a car accident on her way to work in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "27313049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27313049", "title": "National Maritime Heritage Foundation", "text": "National Maritime Heritage Foundation\n\nThe National Maritime Heritage Foundation (NMHF) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that manages community sailing and maritime education programs in Washington, D.C. In September 2009, the NMHF formally proposed a \"National Naval and Maritime Museum\" that would be built in Washington, D.C. The NMHF is in no way connected to the Naval Historical Foundation (NHF), the official U.S. Navy-endorsed group that raises private funds in support of the National Museum of the U.S. Navy (U.S. Navy Museum) in Washington, D.C.\n\nOn September 18, 2009, the NMHF formally proposed the establishment of a public-private partnership to raise an estimated $205 million to build a 150,000-square-foot (13,935 m²) museum in Washington, D.C., devoted to the history of the United States Navy and the maritime history of the United States. To further the proposal, the NMHF joined with U.S. Navy Memorial Foundation, the U.S. Naval Institute and the Navy League. As of March 28, 2010, Naval History & Heritage Command has yet to make a decision on the proposal.\n\nThe NMHF manages sailing programs for District of Columbia-area youth including \"Kids Set Sail,\" \"National Capital High School Sailing,\" and \"Learn to Sail.\"\n\nDC Sail is a community sailing program for adults that provides sailing lessons, boat rentals, and racing on the Washington Channel. DC Sail was designated as a separate program of the National Maritime Heritage Foundation in 2010 and is overseen by a Sailing Director, Sailors Advisory Group, and Executive Board.\n\n\"American Spirit\" is a schooner that is owned and operated by the NMHF. The schooner is used as a \"floating classroom\" and for excursion cruises and private charters.\n\nSince 2008, the NMHF has hosted an annual sailboat race held in October on the Washington Channel and Potomac River. More than 100 sailors participated in 2009. The race takes its name from the Cantina Marina, an event partner located on the Washington Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "42818916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42818916", "title": "Oregon State University Ecampus", "text": "Oregon State University Ecampus\n\nOregon State University Ecampus is the online education unit of Oregon State University. In partnership with the institution's faculty and staff, OSU Ecampus develops and delivers courses, degree programs and certificate programs online and at a distance to students worldwide. Ecampus courses and programs are delivered fully online or in a hybrid (blended) format that combines virtual learning with face-to-face instruction. In January 2017, the Ecampus bachelor's degree programs were ranked top 10 in the nation by U.S. News & World Report for the third straight year.\n\nOregon State Ecampus is a unit within OSU's Division of Extended Campus.\n\nOne of Oregon State University's earliest forays into distance education was in the 1930s, when it delivered pioneering programs in Portland, Oregon, and on the Oregon Coast. OSU's first complete distance degree program was offered in liberal studies via correspondence and video in the 1980s. In 1982, liberal studies courses were offered at Central Oregon Community College in Bend, Oregon, which paved the way for OSU’s first distance degree program in liberal studies.\n\nIn 2002, OSU converted its Distance and Continuing Education program into OSU Ecampus – as the unit exists today – and began building full-fledged online degree programs. Ecampus is now under the leadership of Lisa L. Templeton, who assumed the role of executive director in November 2009. In 2017, she was appointed associate provost of the Division of Extended Campus.\n\nOregon State Ecampus partners with more than 600 OSU faculty members annually to develop and deliver programs and courses online. Ecampus delivers undergraduate and graduate degree programs, graduate certificates and more than 1,000 courses online.\n\nStudents who pursue an education online with Oregon State earn the same diploma and transcript as OSU's on-campus students. OSU's online courses have the same learning objectives and student learning outcomes as the university's on-campus courses.\n\nOregon State offers more than 1,000 classes online each year in nearly 100 academic subjects. Working with Ecampus instructional designers to build an online course, OSU faculty use animations, readings, videos, conferences and other interactive materials for students online. OSU employs a separate effort to measure quality of its existing online courses. Quality Matters, a Maryland-based nonprofit group, offers a means to evaluate and certify the design of online courses.\n\nEcampus delivers complete chemistry course sequences and labs online, as well as course sequences in eight foreign languages.\n\nEcampus delivers more than 50 undergraduate and graduate programs online, with some hybrid programs that feature face-to-face components. Oregon State is regarded as a leader in delivering science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) programs online to learners seeking careers in these high-demand fields.\n\nUndergraduate degree programs\n\nStudents can earn a bachelor's degree online from Oregon State in the following disciplines:\n\n\nGraduate degree programs\n\nOregon State also offers graduate programs online and at a distance, some of which can be completed fully online while others include a face-to-face component.\n\n\nGraduate certificates and endorsements\n\n\nEcampus serves students in all 50 states and more than 40 countries. OSU's distance learners include full- and part-time students, working and retired professionals, community college students, active-duty and retired military, high school students and lifelong learners.\n\nIn the 2015-16 academic year, 19,097 students enrolled in at least one Ecampus course.\n\nEach year hundreds of learners earn their OSU degrees after completing course work online through Ecampus. A record 692 distance students received their diplomas from OSU in June 2016.\n\nAll OSU Ecampus courses are developed by Oregon State faculty members. Each year, OSU instructors share best practices in online teaching with features interactive discussions at the Ecampus Faculty Forum.\n\nOregon State Ecampus has earned numerous honors as a provider of online education in recent years. These distinctions are based on a variety of factors, including \"academic quality, support for students, student satisfaction, market credibility and prestige.\"\n\nIn 2017, U.S. News & World Report ranked Oregon State No. 8 nationally in its annual Best Online Bachelor's Programs list. The criteria for the rankings were student engagement; faculty credentials and training; peer reputation; and student services and technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "35153180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35153180", "title": "PlanetPhysics", "text": "PlanetPhysics\n\nPlanetPhysics is a virtual community with several Internet sites supported by a non-profit organization registered in the USA in an open science, open data, peer-to-peer review mode that aims to help make physics, and related mathematics, knowledge much more accessible, as well as to further develop physical, logical, computational and mathematical physics concepts.\n\nPlanetPhysics is also a free, collaborative, online physics, mathematical physics, computational physics and physical mathematics project, including original articles, lectures, books and encyclopedia entries. The emphasis is on openness, pedagogy, real-time content, rigour, interlinked content, and also based on a virtual community, or virtual group, of about 600 people with various physics, mathematical physics, physical mathematics, logic (such as quantum logic, relational logic and many-valued logics), axiomatics and mathematics interests.\n\nThe main PlanetPhysics.org focus is on both original research and encyclopedic entries; with over 3,400 physics and mathematics concepts edited in LaTeX and rendered in HTML, the PlanetPhysics Encyclopedia is at present the largest Physics encyclopedia written in LaTeX, containing both introductory as well as advanced level presentations. Moreover, its sections on papers and expositions, are second only to CERN and arXiv physics preprint archives.\n\nIn addition, the PlanetPhysics.org new websites also include extensive graphics illustrations of physics experiments, and also forum discussions. The emphasis is on modern physics contents, including advanced physics and mathematical physics concepts as well.\n\nThe project hosts data containing physics, applied physics, engineering and mathematics books, lectures, preprints and research-level papers. A system for both private and semi-private messaging among users is also in place.\n\n, the Physics and Mathematical Physics projects hosted over 2,000 entries, containing more than 30,000 \"concepts\" in books, lectures, expositions, encyclopedia entries, and papers. Several Wikipedia entries also incorporate text from PlanetPhysics articles, and \"vice versa\", several PlanetPhysics articles contain links or refer to Wikipedia entries.\n\nPlanetPhysics implements several specific content creation systems based on the \"Noosphere versions 1.0/1.5\", \"Planetary\" (powered by Drupal), and MediaWiki currently being updated to allow peer-to-peer review, as well as preprints and encyclopedic contributions. This is significantly different from the so-called \"authority model\" previously adopted by PlanetMath. Only registered users can create and edit their own entries, or contribute jointly, by agreement, to various topical entries. The MediaWiki \"version 1.17\" approach is mostly utilized at PlanetPhysics for creating books, uploading PDF files of open access articles, and also for graphics-intensive physics animations and graphical applications to physical problems.\n\nAn author who publishes a new article with \"Noosphere version 1.5\" (created by Aaron Krowne) retains intellectual property ownership of that entry, and is the only person authorized to edit that article, unless the author allows other contributors to edit as part of an editor group selected by the author. Other users may, however, add corrections and discuss improvements that must be approved by the original author so that the resulting modifications of the article, if any, are always made by the owner. When there are long lasting (>30 days) unresolved necessary corrections, either the ownership or the entry could be removed by the web site administration.\n\nA major strength of the \"Noosphere\" versions 1.0 and 1.5 \"planetphysics.us\" website is its capability of linking in real time conceptually related entries, as well as automatically listing all the concepts either defined by the article or related to the article in the Physics and Mathematical Physics encyclopedia. Any PlanetPhysics contributor can explicitly create links to other articles, and the Noosphere 1.0 system also automatically turns certain words into links to the defining articles. The topic area of every article is classified by either the Physics and Astronomy Classification Scheme (PACS) or the Mathematics Subject Classification (MSC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57208208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57208208", "title": "Ricoh Synchrofax", "text": "Ricoh Synchrofax\n\nRicoh Synchrofax is a Japanese dictating machine from 1959, reissued in 1974 as the 3M Sound Page (model \"627AA\" and \"627AG\") as official teaching material in the US-state of Oklahoma. It is also known as sound paper. Inventor Sakae Fujimoto filed the patents US3074724A and US3046357A in 1959.\n\nThe device produced by Ricoh uses bottom side magnetic coated paper, positioned by three perforations on three pins on device. A tape head on a rotating disc is spirally moved from outside to inside. Up to four minutes can be recorded per sheet. Microphone, headphones and monitor jacks are 3.5s plugs.\n\nThe device is 12.555 lb or 5.7 kg, has 11 transistors and dimensions of 10.6×5.5×14.8 inch, which equal 270×140×375 mm.\n\nIn 1973, the 3M device for schools cost US$299, which would be $ today.\n\n"}
{"id": "23692542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23692542", "title": "School life expectancy", "text": "School life expectancy\n\nSchool life expectancy is a measure of how many years of education a child of school-entering age would receive during his or her lifetime if the school enrollment rates stay the same as of today. It is computed by UNESCO Institute for Statistics and is used by statisticians and organisations to compare and assess the development of nations.\n"}
{"id": "2840637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2840637", "title": "Susan Blow", "text": "Susan Blow\n\nSusan Elizabeth Blow (June 7, 1843 – March 27, 1916) was an American educator who opened the first successful public Kindergarten in the United States. She was known as the \"Mother of the Kindergarten.\"\n\nThe eldest of nine children, Susan Blow was the daughter of Henry Taylor Blow and Minerva Grimsley Blow. Henry owned various lead-mining operations, was president of the Iron Mountain Railroad, was a state senator, and was a minister to Brazil and Venezuela. Minerva was the daughter of a prominent manufacturer and local politician. The Blow children grew up in a deeply religious family surrounded by comfort, wealth, and high German culture. Henry Blow had founded a Presbyterian church in St. Louis. Her grandfather was Captain Peter Blow, the owner of the slave Dred Scott, who later challenged the slavery issue in court.\n\nDue to her family's social status, Blow received her education from her parents, various governesses, private tutors, and schools. Her parents highly valued education for their daughters although this was uncommon for Victorian families. Henry Blow contributed funds to build a public school which was named after him. At age eight, Susan was enrolled at the William McCartney School in New Orleans, Louisiana; she attended classes there for the next two years. At age sixteen Blow and her sister Nellie enrolled in the New York school of Henrietta Haynes but were forced to return home due to the outbreak of the Civil War. During this time Blow tutored her younger brothers and sister and taught Sunday school at Carleton Presbyterian Church.\n\nAt age twenty, Blow met and fell in love with a soldier named Colonel William Cole, but her parents found him to be unsuitable. When Cole was discharged for medical reasons, her father took her to Washington D.C. and introduced her to another military man who was more to his liking. However, Blow never married. She was considered a member of the St. Louis School, a literary, philosophical, and educational movement.\n\nPresident Ulysses S. Grant appointed Henry Blow minister to Brazil in 1869, and Susan went with him as his secretary. During the next fifteen months, she quickly learned Portuguese. Her bilingual ability helped to ease trade communications between Brazil and the United States.\n\nIn 1870, along with her mother and siblings, Blow went abroad to Europe; while there she began studying the philosophies of Hegel and the American Transcendentalists. However, while abroad she came across the kindergarten teaching methods of German idealist and philosopher Friedrich Froebel. Froebel believed in \"learning-through-play\" and cognitive development. Susan was inspired to bring these ideas back to St. Louis and her father offered to set up a kindergarten as a private school. Susan felt she could better serve children through the public school system.\n\nIn 1871 Blow traveled to New York, where she spent a year being trained at the New York Normal Training Kindergarten, operated by Froebel devotee Maria Kraus-Boelté. Blow returned to St. Louis in 1873 and opened the nation’s first public kindergarten in Des Peres School in Carondelet, which by then had been annexed by the City of St. Louis. With the help of her two assistants, Mary Timberlake and Cynthia Dozier, Blow directed and taught a kindergarten class consisting of forty-two students. Not only did she pay all expenses to keep the kindergarten running that first year, she was not compensated for her hard work and dedication. About 150 women also volunteered to work at Blow's kindergartens between 1876-1877.\n\nIn the kindergarten class, students learned from games and songs that Susan translated from Froebel's original German. Students played with different shaped blocks, papers and clay, and tried weaving and modeling to improve dexterity. Children also grew seeds in an outdoor garden. Blow would tell stories from the Bible or myths and legends. The classroom was much more cheerful than upper grades. The experimental class was a success and quickly grew. Within three years, her kindergarten system had fifty teachers and over one thousand students, and by 1883 every public school in St. Louis had a kindergarten.\n\nIn 1875, the school board attempted to close the kindergartens in order to save money, but 1,500 signed a petition to keep them open. In 1876, the United States Centennial Commission in Philadelphia gave St. Louis and Blow an award for excellence of kindergarten in public schools.\n\nBlow was able to open her school, in part, thanks to the support she received from William Torrey Harris, the superintendent of schools in St. Louis. Harris believed the greatest educational concern of the time was the amount of young children who dropped out of school. Blow believed a kindergarten system would improve the dropout rate, for children would be starting school at an earlier age. Although he originally resisted the idea of a public program, he was persuaded by the school board’s support of Blow, her background, and her proposal to direct the program herself.\n\nIn 1874 Blow opened a training school to accommodate the in-demand kindergarten teachers. Those in training spent mornings volunteering in the kindergarten classes and afternoons and weekends studying Froebel’s ideas. Through her work, Blow played a significant role in the history and development of early childhood education.\n\nFor her pioneering work Blow was recognized with a star on the St. Louis Walk of Fame.\n\nOnly ten years after opening her training school Blow withdrew from teaching due to Graves' disease, which is a form of hyperthyroidism. She retired in 1884 and moved to Boston with Laura Fischer, who moved there to direct the kindergarten program at Boston Public Schools. In her retirement, Blow wrote a book on Dante in 1890 and five books on Froebel's theories. She also helped found the International Kindergarten Union and held a three-year appointment to the Teachers College of Columbia University.\n\nIn 1895, Blow moved to Cazenovia, New York to be near one of her sisters. She lectured on early childhood education all over the county, only stopping about a month before her death.\n\nShe died in March 1916 in New York City. Most references state she died on March 26, but her tombstone at Bellefontaine Cemetery in St. Louis declares she died on March 27. At the time of her death, the \"St. Louis Globe-Democrat\" wrote, “A great commander is gone, but the soldiers will go marching on.” In April 1916, St. Louis celebrated Susan with a meeting of the Susan E. Blow Froebel League and a memorial fund was set up in her name to sponsor lectures. The organization did not last long, as many of Blow's ideas were German in origin and the United States entered World War I the following year.\nAn early public elementary school in the Carondolet neighborhood of St. Louis was named for her father. Formerly known as Blow Elementary, it is today named the Lyon Academy at Blow.\n\nBlow Street, which runs through South St. Louis city from the Mississippi River at S. Broadway to the St. Louis Hills neighborhood, also bears her family name.\n\nBlow served on the advisory committee for the International Kindergarten Union and Committee of Nineteen and translated two volumes of Froebel’s \"Mother Play\" in 1895. She also wrote articles in the ‘’Kindergarten Magazine’’. Below is a list of Blow’s published works:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27472364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27472364", "title": "Tamaz Vashakidze", "text": "Tamaz Vashakidze\n\nTamaz Vashakidze (April 14, 1961 in Tbilisi) — ballet artist (People's Artist of Georgia), premier dancer of the State Georgian Ballet, choreographer, Holder of Order of Honor of Georgia (2001), founder and awardee of “Chabukiani-Balanchine...” International Festival of Ballet Art, founder of “New Georgian Ballet” Theatre of Modern Dance, holder of Special Award of Balanchine's Family, founder of the Foundation “Chabukiani-Balanchine”.\n\nTamaz Vashakidze was born in 1961 in the city of Tbilisi. In 1972 he entered Tbilisi Ballet Art State School. His teachers were Vivi Metreveli and Vakhtang Chabukiani. Having graduated from the School in 1979 he was employed as the leading soloist of the company Tbilisi Z. Paliashvili State Academic Theatre of Opera and Ballet. Since 1989 he is the leading soloist of the Moscow State Theatre \"Russian Ballet\".\n\nIn 1991 T. Vashakidze was awarded the title of People's Artist of Georgia.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1993 T. Vashakidze is elected artistic director of the ballet company of the Tbilisi State Academic Opera and Ballet Theatre named after Z. Paliashvili.\n\nIn 1993 he was appointed artistic director of the Tbilisi Choreographic School named after V. Chabukiani.\n\nIn 1993 T. Vashakidze founded a theatre of modern dance \"New Georgian Ballet\". The first number which was produced in newborn theatre was a number “We begin” on medley from products of Bach, Beethoven, Mozart, Chopin, Wagner, Rimsky-Korsakov, Liszt (with sound of kremlin chimes at the beginning). The performers: artistic leader of “New Georgian Ballet” Tamaz Vashakidze, artist on light Vladislav Vlasov (who is technical director of Tovstonogov BDT today), artist on suit Eka Turmanidze. The first-night took place in 1993 in Tbilisi academic theatre of the opera and ballet, the first show outside Georgia — in the same year in St. Petersburg state conservatory.\n\nThe theatre debut took place in 1994 with the first night of the \"Class-Concert\" performance at the International Ballet Festival in Aspendos, Turkey.\n\nIn 1995 he graduated from the St. Petersburg State Conservatoire named after N.A. Rimsky-Korsakov in \"choreography\".\nIn 1999 Tamaz Vashakidze produced the first Georgian performance in the manner of modern dance — \"Anbani\". Later the same year the ballet \"Anbani\" was presented at the International Modern Dance Festival in the French city of Montpellier. The French press tagged it “Start of a new day”.\n\"I used to visit Georgia and only can say that Tamaz Vashakidze managed to wonderfully translate Georgian spirit in his creation. I’m happy I could see the performance\". (Dieter Tanike, Director General of the Theatre Festival in Hamburg and Ganov)\n\n\"Tamaz Vashakidze has charmed with extraordinary energy and breath-taking beauty of movements\". (Nathalie Vim, Deputy Director General of the Avignon Festival)\n\n\"I believe that the most difficult is to make the spectators of the Montpellier Festival to remember you. Georgians managed to do that. I’m very glad for them. This means that AFFA had made the right decision having supported this project\". (Claire Verlet, Chief Manager of dance and theatre programs at AFFA)\nIn 2001 Tamaz Vashakidze in the function of the Director of the Tbilisi Ballet Art State School has initiated \"Chabuakiani-Balanchine...\" International Ballet Art Festival. The first festival was dedicated to 85th anniversary of the Tbilisi Ballet Art State School named after V.M. Chabukiani.\nThe same year by Decree of the Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze No. 892 from September 3, 2001, Tamaz Vashakidze was awarded with the Order of Honor for development and popularization of the Georgian ballet art and running the First International Ballet Art Festival \"Chabukiani-Balanchine...\".\n\"The Tbilisi Ballet Art State School named after genius creative personality Vakhtang Chabukiani is celebrating its eighty-fifth jubilee. It is remarkable, that the First “Chabukiani-Balanchine...” International Ballet Art Festival is dedicated to this event. If we may speak today about Georgian contribution in the treasury of the world ballet, then first of all it is the merit of the Vakhtang Chabukiani Tbilisi Ballet Art State School. I’m sure that the First “Chabukiani-Balanchine...” International Ballet Art Festival will write interesting pages in the history of world arts.\" (Sesili Gogiberidze, Georgian Minister of Culture. Speech at the Festival opening ceremony)\n\n\"I am happy to congratulate the remarkable team of the Vakhtang Chabukiani Tbilisi Ballet Art State School with its 85th anniversary. The name of the great dancer that your School has is much obliging. And it’s joyful to realize that due to everyday efforts of the teachers the glory of Georgian choreography art does not fade away still nowadays. Your students shine not only on Georgian stage, but on many famed stages of the world, including the stages of the Bolshoi Theatre of Russia and Mariinsky Theatre. I wish you much success in this noble field. Today is your holiday. I am sure that the First “Chabukiani-Balanchine...” International Ballet Art Festival held in Tbilisi and dedicated to this memorable anniversary will bring you real joy of meeting with fine art.\" (M. Shvydkoy, Minister of Culture of the Russian Federation. Speech at the Festival opening ceremony)\nIn 2002 Т. Vashakidze started the Foundation \"Chabukiani-Balanchine\".\n\nFrom 1993 to 2004 he was appointed artistic director of the Tbilisi Ballet Art State School named after V.M. Chabukiani by the Georgian Minister of Culture Dato Magradze. In 2001 T. Vashakidze was appointed director of the Tbilisi Ballet Art State School named after V.M. Chabukiani.\n\nIn July 2004 following the arbitrary rule of the new Georgian political authorities he was unfairly dismissed from his post and persecuted.\n\nIn 2005, by invitation of the Federal Agency for Culture and Cinematography of Russia, T. Vashakidze produced the ballet \"Big Waltz\" to the music by Johann Strauss on the stage of the Concert Hall named after Tchaikovsky (Moscow), having become the first Georgian choreographer, whose ballet first night took place on stage starring dancers from \"Russian Ballet\" company.\nFollowing the world first night of the production \"Big Waltz\" in Moscow (1,5 years after Tamaz Vashakidze was fired from the Tbilisi Ballet Art School) he receives an invitation to the General Prosecutor's Office in Georgia for testifying. During interrogations a new faked-up file is charged against him and a criminal case is launched.\n\nIn September 2005 his name is put on the wanted list, although the Georgian authorities knew well where he was. By invitation of the Agency for Culture and Cinematography maestro Vashakidze was in Ekaterinburg, where he negotiated the production of the \"Big Waltz\" ballet on the stage of the local Opera and Ballet Theatre (the production took place in 2006).\n\nIn 2006 Tamaz Vashakidze is the ballet master of the Ekaterinburg State Academic Opera and Ballet Theatre.\n\nIn 2007 after being arrested on Russian territory under the requisition of Georgian authorities, Tamaz Vashakidze asks the Russian Government for political asylum. In 2008 Russia grants his application, and Vashakidze is given the status of political refugee. In 2008 the Ekaterinburg State Academic Opera and Ballet Theatre makes Theatre makes Т. Vashakidze member of artistic management of the theatre as its ballet master.\n\nIn 2010 by invitation of the Russian State Circus Company \"Rosgostsirk\" Tamaz Vashakidze accepts the function of director-producer of \"Rosgostsirk\".\n\nFrom 2010, 27 of May, Tamaz Vashakidze is member of the Theatre Union of Russian Federation.\n\nAnd many others.\n\"Athletic figure of T. Vashakidze matched well to translate the inhuman trick of the brigand Crown. Unfortunately, artists of this kind are impossible to find on our stage.\" Ansa Hartelin. “In ballet shoes, in slum” (newspaper “Aamulehti”, April 21, 1985, Finland)\n\"The black prototype — Crown — is a massive success of the young dancer T. Vashakidze. The improviser’s negative charm and temperament fascinate, his bright dance delights and takes one’s breath away.\" V. Uralskaya. “Poetry of feelings” (Moscow)\n\"Tamaz Vashakidze (Chief) has such an actor’s charm, such a catching temperament that he is able to excite hearts of the most phlegmatic spectators...\" Neli Bregadze, art critic. “And the faith in Good” (Tbilisi)\n\"Tibald by Tamaz Vashakidze was so unconventional; he broke so much the traditional perception of this Shakespeare’s character, that the part provoked a lot of discussions and positioned the dancer as a bright actor.\" Excerpt from the article “Tamaz Vashakidze” (Newspaper “Sovetskaya Kultura”, Moscow)\n\nFrom 1993 to 2008 Tamaz Vashakidze produced 14 ballet performances as director and choreography director of the non-repertory theatre of modern dance \"New Georgian Ballet\". Three of them (marked in the list with * symbol) were produced as part of the side projects:\n\n\nTamaz Vashakidze made over thirty productions in the leading academic theatres of Georgia: theatres named after Rustaveli, Mardjanishvili, Griboyedov and others.\n\n\nTamaz Vashakidze has acted as main characters in the following films (first Georgian video ballet performances):\nPrize-winner of the Cannes TV Film Festival.\n\nScreenplay and direction: Alexander Vakhtangov (member of the Board of Directors of the International EMMY Award, winner of the State Prize of Georgia).\n\nComposer: Alfred Schnittke.\n\nCountry: Georgia, Russia (Lentelefilm, Georgian TV Film), 1993.\n\nMain characters acted by: Tamaz Vashakidze, Nato Murvanidze, Gogi Osepaishvili.\nThe Best Georgian TV film in 1996.\n\nScreenplay and direction: Alexander Vakhtangov.\n\nComposer: Davit Evgenidze.\n\nMain characters acted by: Maka Makharadze, Tamaz Vashakidze, Irma Nioradze.\nFinalist of the EMMN TV Films Festival in New York, 1999.\n\nScreenplay and direction: Alexander Vakhtangov.\n\nCompose: Dmitri Shostakovich.\n\nMain character acted by: Tamaz Vashakidze.\nAlso Tamaz Vashakidze acted in films:\n"}
{"id": "49252528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49252528", "title": "The Technopreneurship Institute", "text": "The Technopreneurship Institute\n\nThe Technopreneurship Institute, or Tech-I, is an online educational organisation founded in 2014 by Mushtak Al-Atabi, the author of \"Driving Performance\" and \"Think Like an Engineer: Using systematic thinking to solve everyday challenges and unlocking the inherant value in them\". The institute aims to unleash the potential of individuals through project-based learning and entrepreneurship. Tech-I works on the basis of volunteer hours. Notable academics from around the world volunteer hours to mentor and teach students from all over the world.\n\nStudents who enroll into Tech-I attend structured courses online and work on projects that will benefit the community that they are living in. Learning portfolios and set learning targets which include successfully completing projects, financial planning and community service is used as a measure of student progress. The academic staff of Tech-I include a wide range of world class academics and industry leaders who have volunteered their time and experties to mentor and supervise the students.\n\nMission Zero is the driving force of Tech-I. Tech-I sees education as an integral part of helping individuals achieve their full potential. Mission Zero has two parts:\n\nEvery year, Tech-I organises a global event called the Global Technopreneurship Challenge. It is a competition aimed at addressing few of the 14 Grand Challenges for Engineering. It encompasses a preliminary stage through a massive open online course carried out on Open Learning, the finalist will then be selected and invited to attend the finals in the host city. Each year the competition will be hosted by different cities across the globe. Cities bid for the rights to host the event each year. The first Global Technopreneurship Challenge was held in Kuwait in November 2015, with the preliminary stage held from July to September 2015.\n\nGlobal Internship Programme is Tech-I's global training platform for individuals who are interested in entrepreneurship and management. The Global Internship Program feeds into the organising committee of the year's GTC. Trainees under the program will experience what it's like to work with people of different cultures and experience the joys and stresses of planning a large scale global event.\n\n"}
{"id": "6988552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6988552", "title": "University of Colombo School of Computing", "text": "University of Colombo School of Computing\n\nThe University of Colombo School of Computing (UCSC) is a higher educational institute affiliated to the University of Colombo in Sri Lanka providing Computer Science and Information and Communication Technology education. The UCSC was formed on 1 September 2002 by bringing together the Department of Computer Science of the Faculty of Science of the University of Colombo and the Institute of Computer Technology and considered as the leading computing higher educational institution in Sri Lanka.\n\nTeaching of computing at the University of Colombo first started in 1967 with the setting up of the Statistical Unit as a separate unit of the Department of Mathematics of the Faculty of Science. Later with the initial guidance of Professor V. K. Samaranayake, the Statistical Unit was enhanced as the Statistical Consultancy and Data Processing Service Center. Starting with this center, in 1985 Samaranayake convinced the university to set up the Department of Statistics and Computer Science (DSCS). This is considered as the starting point of the UCSC. A batch of 50 students were taken to study computer science, through the University Grants Commission in 1997. In 2001, the DSCS separated into the Department of Computer Science (DCS) and the Department of Statistics (DS). Finally, UCSC was formed in 2002 by the merger of the existing Department of Computer Science of Faculty of Science and the Institute of Computer Technology (ICT) both of the University of Colombo.\n\nSamaranayake became the founding director of the UCSC. After his retirement, he worked in UCSC as an acting director for a short period. In 2004 Dr. Ruvan Weerasinghe became the director of the UCSC and served for next six years. Then Prof. Gihan Wikramanayake became the director of the UCSC in 2010.\n\nThe UCSC is situated in the Science Faculty block of University of Colombo. It is surrounded by nationally important landmarks such as of the Prime Minister's Office, Independence Hall, Colombo Town Hall and National Museum, as well as interesting tourists attractions such as Vihara Maha Devi Park, Public Library, Independent Square, Arcade Independence Square, Gallface Green, Gangaramaya Temple and many other churches and mosques, Floating market, BMICH, Nelum pokuna, Planetarium etc.\n\nThe UCSC academic staff is allocated to the three academic departments based on their specialization and teaching expertise. Following are the three academic departments based on the research interest.\n\n\nComputing for undergraduates of University of Colombo was first introduced way back in 1967 as part of Applied Mathematics of the Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Science. With the establishment of the Department of Statistics and Computer Science at the Faculty of Science in 1985, special degree programs in Computer Science was introduced. Direct intake for Computer Science was introduced in 1998 along with industry placement and accreditation of the degree program. To address the demand for IT graduates and external degree in IT was introduced in 2000. With the establishment of the UCSC in 2002 the direct intake was moved to the UCSC. In 2004 a degree program initially named ICT, but now called IS was introduced.\n\nAt now UCSC offers Computer Science and Software Engineering education under the Bachelor of Computer Science and Information Systems under Bachelor of Information Systems intakes through the University Grants Commission as internal students.\n\n\n\nUCSC offers several joint special degree programs with Faculty of Science, University of Colombo. Students registered in the faculty become eligible to follow each joint special degree by satisfying the GPA requirement for core computer science courses offered by the UCSC in their first and second year.\n\n\nTaking into consideration the job opportunities that exist for ICT graduates in Sri Lanka & overseas, the UCSC took the initiative to launch the three year External Degree program leading to the award of Degree of Bachelor of Information Technology (External) in 2000. External candidates can learn for BIT online with optional assistance from private training institutions.\n\nUniversity of Colombo School of Computing offers postgraduate and research degrees across disciplines in Computer Science, Information Technology and Information Security enabling candidates to uncover new knowledge either by the discovery of new facts, the formulation of theories or the innovative reinterpretation of known data and established ideas.\n\n\n\n\nThe UCSC operates on a devolved research basis, based upon a Research Group structure. Each Research Group has its own culture and strategy matched to the cutting edge of contemporary science in that area. Collaborative projects between groups are strongly encouraged. Following list contains the current research groups that operates in UCSC.\n\n\nThe UCSC conducts an annual Research Symposium to promote the research and development culture among undergraduates as well as to provide the publicity and recognition of research work carried out by final year students. The Symposium also provides a forum for students, faculty, and the community to discuss cutting edge research topics and to examine the connection between research and education.\n\nThe university pioneered research and training collaborations between academia, industry, local government and internationally including Stockholm University, Sweden and University of Western Sydney, Australia.\n\nThe University of Colombo School of Computing annually conducts the International Conference on Advances in ICT for Emerging Regions (ICTer) which is the successor to the seminal International Information Technology Conference (IITC) held in Sri Lanka since 1998. It provides a platform to the researchers and practitioners alike to showcase research and development activities carried out in Computer Science and Information Communication Technology domains. Proceedings of ICTer will be published in both book form and on IEEE Xplore. Selected papers will be invited for publication in the ICTer Journal.\n\nThe International Journal on Advances in ICT for Emerging Regions (ICTer) is a project initiated by University of Colombo School of Computing in collaboration with SPIDER (the Swedish Program for ICT in Developing Regions), IEEE Computer Society (Sri Lankan Chapter) and the Computer Society of Sri Lanka (CSSL) and is an International journal that would give researchers in ICT related fields, particularly from emerging regions, the opportunity to disseminate knowledge through an international network to an international audience by way of an internationally acclaimed journal.\n\nThe UCSC's centers bring institute's expertise to pursue research, service and outreach on scholarly and social topics by providing training courses, software development and consultancy services in the areas of advanced digital media technologies, digital forensics, e-Learning and etc.\n\nThe Advanced Digital Media Technology Centre (ADMTC) is one of the centres under University of Colombo School of Computing (UCSC) set up to carry out training for trainers of web-based training and content development at its state-of-art digital studio, teaching and development laboratories. It was created as a Project for Human Resource Development through Capacity Building of the UCSC which went on for 3 years (1 June 2002 to 31 May 2005).\n\nThe Computing Services Centre is the Consultancy arm of the UCSC. It was established in 1990 to provide Consultancy Services to the IT and related industries. The activities undertaken by the Computing Services Centre are threefold. Those are short term training courses, software development and consultancy services.\n\nDigital Forensics Centre of the UCSC was established in 2011. One UCSC and two international academics are advisors of the centre. Centre facilities is been strengthen using a generous donation of US$25,000.00 by a UOC Alumni. Centre has taken over the role of assisting the Sri Lanka Police and the Criminal investigation department which the UCSC undertook since 2003. Requests to support in finding evidence for digital crime cases have been consistently increased during last few years with over 50 court cases in the form of Forgery, Frauds, Illegal, Pornography and Terrorist handled annually at cost.\n\nThe e-Learning Centre was established in 2002 at the University of Colombo School of Computing to provide e-learning Service to both internal and external students of UCSC. UCSC external degree program, BIT, was supported by e-learning service from 2003 using learning management facilities. This work was started as a collaborative project with Sweden partner organization, Stockholm University, Department of Computer and Systems Sciences (DSV). The project is financed by the Sida (Swedish International Development Agency) and it was conducted as a pilot project to identify the applicability of e-learning. As a result of this pilot project, it was decided to longer term project to strength e-learning initiatives at UCSC and to extend e-learning consultancy and services other universities and whole nation.\n\nThe main purpose of establishing the External Degrees Centre and the three –year external degree programme, Bachelor of Information Technology (BIT) is to widen the higher educational opportunities of the students who have been unsuccessful in meeting the competitive eligibility criteria for admission to the state university system.\n\nThe Professional Development Centre(PDC) is one of the centres of the UCSC established to enhance the quality of internal degree programmes and others by addressing the issues of professional skills, industrial relevance and social and inter-cultural harmony. PDC is involving in organizing invited talks, guest lectures, industrial placement programme, industrial visits, industrial Presentations and professional skill development programs in the UCSC.\n\nThe UCSC Students' Union aims to represent students at the university. Constitutionally it is governed by the student body via referendums, who annually elect a student council which is responsible for the organisation of the Union. The organization of annual Pirith Ceremony, Freshers' Welcome, Padura and Shramadanaya and other charitable activities is done by internal students as traditions. \nThe Buddhist Students' Association of University of Colombo work closely with UCSC to conduct dhamma deshanas, bhakthi geetha sessions and annual blood donation campaign and other religious societies also work with UCSC students to organize various religious activities such as Vani Viza, Christmas Carols etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "31441421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31441421", "title": "Vi Hart", "text": "Vi Hart\n\nVictoria Hart (born 1988), commonly known as Vi Hart (), is a self-described \"recreational mathemusician\" who is well known for creating mathematical videos on YouTube. Hart founded the virtual reality research group eleVR and has co-authored several research papers on computational geometry and the mathematics of paper folding.\n\nTogether with another YouTube mathematics popularizer, Matt Parker, Hart won the 2018 Communications Award of the Joint Policy Board for Mathematics for \"entertaining, thought-provoking mathematics and music videos on YouTube that explain mathematical concepts through doodles\".\n\nHart is the child of mathematical sculptor George W. Hart, and received a degree in music at Stony Brook University. Hart identifies as \"gender agnostic\".\n\nHart's career as a mathematics popularizer began in 2010 with a video series about \"doodling in math class\". After these recreational mathematics videos — which introduced topics like fractal dimension — grew popular, Hart was featured in \"The New York Times\" and on National Public Radio, eventually gaining the support of the Khan Academy and making videos for the educational site as their \"Resident Mathemusician\". Many of Hart's videos combined mathematics and music, such as \"Twelve tones\", which was called \"deliriously and delightfully profound\" by \"Salon\".\n\nTogether with Henry Segerman, Hart wrote \"The Quaternion Group as a Symmetry Group\", which was included in the anthology \"The Best Writing on Mathematics 2015\".\n\nIn 2014, Hart founded a research group called eleVR, with Emily Eifler and Andrea Hawksley, to research virtual reality (VR). They created VR videos, and had also collaborated on educational computer games. They created the game Hypernom, where the player has to eat part of 4 dimensional polytopes which are stereographically projected into 3D and viewed using a virtual reality headset. In June, the group released an open source web video player that worked with the Oculus Rift. In the same year Hart created the playable blog post \"Parable of the Polygons\" with Nicky Case. The game was based on economist Thomas Schelling's \"Dynamic Models of Segregation\".\nIn May 2016, eleVR joined Y Combinator Research (YCR) as part of the Human Advancement Research Community (HARC) project. Hart was listed as a Principal Investigator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19120279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19120279", "title": "WFF 'N PROOF", "text": "WFF 'N PROOF\n\nWFF 'N PROOF is a game of modern logic, developed to teach principles of logic.\nWFF 'N PROOF was developed by Layman Allen a former professor of Yale Law School and the University of Michigan - Ann Arbor.\n\nIn the game, students must be able to recognize a \"well-formed formula\" (WFF) and use seven different rules of logic to manipulate those WFFs into a proof. Games are played in groups of two or three. The first player rolls the cubes and sets a WFF as a Goal. The goal is the conclusion of a proof. Each student then tries to construct a proof that ends with the goal. The Solution to the goal is the Premises which they started their proof with, and the Rules they used to get to the Goal.\n\nPlayers take turns moving to the Essentials, Permitted Premises, or Permitted Rules sections of the mat. Any cube moved to Essentials must be used in any Solution, and must be an essential part of that solution; any cube in Permitted Premises may be used as part of a premise; any cube in Permitted Rules may be used as part of a Rule. Thus the players themselves shape the Solution, forcing one another to create new Solutions in response to moves.\n\nAt any point a player may challenge the last mover, if they feel the last mover has made a mistake. There are three types of Challenges. A-Flub means that the Challenger can make a Solution using the cubes in Required and Permitted and one more cube from Resources. P-Flub, or Challenge Impossible means the player believes the Mover cannot make a Solution using the cubes in Required, Permitted, and Resources. C-A- Flub means that the Challenger believes that the Mover, or some previous mover, missed an A-Flub. After a challenge, at least one player must show a correct Solution on paper. \n\nThe scoring goes like this: \n\nThe player who wins the challenge scores 10 points. <br>\nThe loser of the challenge scores 6. <br>\nIf there is a third player, he must side with or against the Challenger and scores points depending upon that decision.\nA game may also end in a Forceout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21686907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21686907", "title": "Warren Bullock", "text": "Warren Bullock\n\nWarren Bullock is a professional ballroom dancer and dance teacher. He owns a dance teaching business with a chain of 14 'studios', and also teaches on cruises. He has won a number of awards as a dance teacher and coach and together with his wife Jane, pioneered the teaching of Ballroom and Latin American dancing in schools starting at Glebefields School in Tipton and King Edwards School for girls in Edgebaston before speaking and promoting this concept at the BDF conference in 1997 which resulted in dance becoming part of the national curriculum in some counties. He was the main character in 8 one-hour programmes of Baby Ballroom on channel 5Star – a reality documentary made by Firecracker Films based on Bullock, his family and Zig Zag Dance Factory.\n\nBullock began dancing at the age of eight at a local dancing school, owned by the world-famous ballroom dancers Syd Perkin and Edna Duffield, in Bullock's home town of Stoke on Trent. At the age of eleven, he won the British Juvenile Championship at the Blackpool Tower ballroom. Supported by his late parents, Maurice and Jean, Bullock travelled around the country competing and at the age of 15, made his first British Junior final.\n\nA number of different partners came and went until at the age of 19 he met his last partner now wife, at studio in Birmingham run by competitive coaches, Robin Short and Rita Last, who introduced them. Still financed by his parents, Bullock had a string of jobs; of note was a long stint as an airbrush artist.\n\nBullock and his wife performed in front of Prince Michael of Kent in 1993 at The Badrutts Palace in St Moritz, Switzerland. An amateur and professional career followed with them being in demand all over the world before finally retiring from competitions at Sun City, South Africa in 1997.\n\nWarren is married to a wife and professional dancing partner; they married in 1995. He lives in lower Penn with his wife and their three children named India, Savannah and Alicia who are triplets. Alicia is the 2010 British Juvenile Ballroom Champion and India is the 2013 UK Under 14s Ballroom Champion. Alicia and India are also the winners of the Under 21s Ballroom and Latin championships at Champions of Tomorrow and are both sponsored by DSI London, Ray Rose Shoes and International Dance Shoes.\n\n\n\nBullock and Jane have received two prestigious Carl Alan Awards in both amateur dancing and professional teaching. The first Carl Alan Award was in 1993 for Amateur Ballroom. The second Carl Alan Award was in 2009 for \"Ballroom, Latin and Sequence Teacher\" and was presented to Warren and Jane on 10 February 2009 by Karen Hardy of BBCs \"Strictly Come Dancing\". Winners of the Le Classique du Dance Awards 2008 presented by Jane McDonald.\n\n\n\nIn 1994 Warren and his wife Jane started Zig Zag Dance Factory. Initially as a way of earning an income to continue competing, Zig Zag has grown over the last 20 years to be the UK's largest dance school boasting 13 studios located throughout Wolverhampton, Stourbridge, Sutton Coldfield, Birmingham, Wylde Green, Great Barr and Streetly\n\nThe Zig Zag Dance Factory produces more competitive couples than any other dance school in the UK and has previously supplied dancers for major events including Elton John's birthday and also the Strictly Come Dancing franchise. In March 2009 they staged an event featuring \"Strictly Come Dancing\" 's Matthew Cutler and Nicole Cutler. Since then most of the BBC Strictly Come Dancing professionals have taught or performed at the Zig Zag Studios including Ian Waite and Camilla Dallerup, Trent Whiddon and Gordana, Brian Fortuna and Kristina Rhianoff, Darren Bennett and Lilia Kopylova, James and Ola Jordan and Vincent Simone and Flavia Cacace. Zig Zag has quickly become the leading studio for corporate events and choreography for film and TV. A pilot programme has already been filmed as the fore-runner of a new TV reality series featuring Zig Zag and the Bullock dynasty. In 2014 Bullock staged and organised the Galaxy Classique Awards hosted by Robin Windsor from BBC's Strictly Come Dancing at the Ramada Park Hall Hotel & Spa which was a new event to be the 'Oscars' of the dance world which is now an annual event.\n\nWarren Bullock supports and raises money for a number of charities including Starlight Children's Foundation, Macmillan Cancer Support, Compton Hospice, Birmingham Women's Hospital, Promise Dreams, Birmingham Kidney Kids Appeal, Romanian Orphans, Meningitis Trust. He has also supported and fund raised for Dean & the late Helen John appeal. Bullock has also founded the FDA Charity to support dancers in hardship and is involved each year in a charity Strictly Come Dancing event along with various celebrities to raise money for their charities. Bullock was involved in setting the new Guinness World Record for the longest distance ever danced by training two of his pupils over a period of months to raise money for charity.\n\n"}
{"id": "43690370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43690370", "title": "Why U", "text": "Why U\n\nWhy U, Inc. is a non-profit 501(c)(3) educational organization funded by the Goldman Charitable Foundation. Why U is dedicated to exploration through the use of digital media, of new education paradigms for the STEM subjects: Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics. Why U’s goal is to remove barriers to learning in the STEM subjects, and increase the public’s depth of knowledge of STEM.\n\nWhy U develops and provides worldwide access to free animated videos which teach fundamental concepts in math and science in an entertaining format. Why U animated videos are designed to develop conceptual knowledge rather than procedural skill, i.e., instill in the viewer an understanding of the underlying concepts of math and science rather than promoting the memorization of problem solving procedures. The prime focus is to clearly and efficiently explain the conceptual framework at the heart of mathematical and scientific subjects in a way which engages the viewer and holds their interest. Concepts are presented in the context of a dramatic and humorous setting using animated graphics designed to communicate complex ideas in an enjoyable and exciting way. As such, Why U videos are often used as collateral material in formal learning environments around the world.\n\nIn recent years, there has been a shift in emphasis by educators from procedural to conceptual knowledge. One benefit of a strong conceptual understanding is that a person is less likely to forget concepts than procedures. “If conceptual understanding is gained, then a person can reconstruct a procedure that may have been forgotten. On the other hand, if procedural knowledge is the limit of a person's learning, there is no way to reconstruct a forgotten procedure. Conceptual understanding in mathematics, along with procedural skill, is much more powerful than procedural skill alone.” \n“Research has shown that students in a conceptually oriented mathematics class outperform students in a procedurally oriented mathematics class on tests and on measures of attitude toward mathematics. (See, for example, Boaler, 1998; Cain, 2002; Fuson et al., 2000; Masden and Lanier, 1992.)”\n\nWhy U grew out of an earlier non-profit corporation, Wired Science. In 2001, Steve Goldman created Wired Science as a charitable endeavor to develop digital kiosks that facilitate informal learning at science centers. Wired Science creative designers included Steve Goldman, Eileen Meier, Mark Rodriguez, and Brandy Camps. In 2003 Wired Science won the Communication Arts Magazine Award of Excellence, the HOW Magazine Design Merit Award, and the American Advertising Federation Gold ADDY Award for design excellence. In 2003 Wired Science was gifted by Steve Goldman to the Orlando Science Center. Building on the experience gained from Wired Science, Why U, Inc. was founded and incorporated in 2007.\n\nWhy U videos are conceived and written by Steve Goldman and animated by Mark Rodriguez.\n\nWhy U videos and scripts are reviewed for correctness by mathematicians and educators from several universities, including Dr. Robert Brigham, Dr. Piotr Mikusinski, and Dr. Tammy Muhs from the University of Central Florida Mathematics Department, Dr. Mark Anderson from the Rollins College Mathematics Department, and Dr. Cheryl Avila from the University of Central Florida College of Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "14449800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14449800", "title": "Youth mainstreaming", "text": "Youth mainstreaming\n\nYouth mainstreaming is a public policy concept. The Commonwealth of Nations describes it in this context:\nIt is modeled on gender mainstreaming, which the United Nations defined in the 1990s as:\nYouth mainstreaming is a two-fold strategy for pursuing youth development. Inspired by the experience of gender mainstreaming, it involves ensuring youth is reflected in policy and project stages in various sectors and ensuring there are specific projects addressing youth. Together these add up to a \"youth responsive\" approach.\n\nBy reflecting, addressing, being sensitive to, and being responsive to youth issues, mainstreaming is meant to both looking at the impact of a policy/project on young women and men, and involve young men and women in order to ensure youth participation in the decision-making of those policies and/or projects that affects them.\n\nAdvocates of youth mainstreaming point out that young people represent a disadvantaged and marginalised social group, being over-represented among the global poor and unemployed. As such it is argued that \"pro-poor\" strategies must be \"pro-youth\", and that any development intervention seeking sustainable impact must address the youth cohort.\n\nThe purposes of youth mainstreaming include:\n\nThe basic steps in youth mainstreaming are to factor youth impacts and youth participation into all stages of a project, of whatever size and sector:\n\nThe steps that institutions can take toward youth mainstreaming are:\n\n\n"}
