{"id": "30079569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30079569", "title": "1907 Tiflis bank robbery", "text": "1907 Tiflis bank robbery\n\nThe 1907 Tiflis bank robbery, also known as the Yerevan Square expropriation, was an armed robbery on 26 June 1907 in the city of Tiflis in the Tiflis Governorate in the Caucasus Viceroyalty of the Russian Empire (now Georgia's capital, Tbilisi). A bank cash shipment was stolen by Bolsheviks to fund their revolutionary activities. The robbers attacked a bank stagecoach and surrounding police and military using bombs and guns while the stagecoach was transporting money through Yerevan Square (now Freedom Square) between the post office and the Tiflis branch of the State Bank of the Russian Empire. The attack killed forty people and injured fifty others, according to official archive documents. The robbers escaped with 341,000 rubles (equivalent to around US 3.86 million in 2017).\n\nThe robbery was organized by a number of top-level Bolsheviks, including Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Maxim Litvinov, Leonid Krasin, and Alexander Bogdanov, and executed by a party of revolutionaries led by Stalin's early associate Ter-Petrosian (Kamo). Because such activities were explicitly prohibited by the 5th Congress of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP), the robbery and the killings caused outrage within the party against the Bolsheviks (a faction within the RSDLP). As a result, Lenin and Stalin tried to distance themselves from the robbery. The events surrounding the incident and similar robberies split the Bolshevik leadership, with Lenin against Bogdanov and Krasin. Despite the success of the robbery and the large sum involved, the Bolsheviks could not use most of the large bank notes obtained from the robbery because their serial numbers were known to the police. Lenin conceived of a plan to have various individuals cash the large bank notes at once at various locations throughout Europe in January 1908, but this strategy failed, resulting in a number of arrests, worldwide publicity, and negative reaction from European social democrats.\n\nKamo was caught in Germany shortly after the robbery but successfully avoided a criminal trial by feigning insanity for more than three years. He managed to escape from his psychiatric ward but was captured two years later while planning another robbery. Kamo was then sentenced to death for his crimes including the 1907 robbery, but his sentence was commuted to life imprisonment; he was released after the 1917 Revolution. None of the other major participants or organizers of the robbery were ever brought to trial. After his death, a grave and monument to Kamo was erected near Yerevan Square in Pushkin Gardens. This monument was later removed, and Kamo's remains moved elsewhere.\n\nThe RSDLP, the predecessor to the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, was formed in 1898. The goal of the RSDLP was to carry out a Marxist proletarian revolution against the Russian Empire. As part of their revolutionary activity, the RSDLP and other revolutionary groups (such as anarchists and Socialist Revolutionaries) practised a range of militant operations, including \"expropriations\", a euphemism for armed robberies of government or private funds to support revolutionary activities.\n\nFrom 1903 onwards, the RSDLP were divided between two major groups: the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. After the suppression of the 1905 Revolution by the Russian Empire, the RSDLP held its 5th Congress in May–June 1907 in London with the hopes of resolving differences between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. One issue that still separated the two groups was the divergence of their views on militant activities, and in particular, \"expropriations\". The most militant Bolsheviks, led at the 5th Congress by Vladimir Lenin, supported continuation of the use of robberies, while Mensheviks advocated a more peaceful and gradual approach to revolution, and opposed militant operations. At the 5th Congress, a resolution was passed condemning participation in or assistance to all militant activity, including \"expropriations\" as \"disorganizing and demoralizing\", and called for all party militias to be disbanded. This resolution passed with 65 per cent supporting and 6 per cent opposing (others abstained or did not vote) with all Mensheviks and even some Bolsheviks supporting the resolution.\n\nDespite the unified party's prohibition on separate committees, during the 5th Congress the Bolsheviks elected their own governing body, called the Bolshevik Centre, and kept it secret from the rest of the RSDLP. The Bolshevik Centre was headed by a \"Finance Group\" consisting of Lenin, Leonid Krasin and Alexander Bogdanov. Among other party activities, the Bolshevik leadership had already planned a number of \"expropriations\" in different parts of Russia by the time of the 5th Congress and was awaiting a major robbery in Tiflis, which occurred only weeks after the 5th Congress ended.\n\nBefore the 5th Congress met, high-ranking Bolsheviks held a meeting in Berlin in April 1907 to discuss staging a robbery to obtain funds to purchase arms. Attendees included Lenin, Krasin, Bogdanov, Joseph Stalin, and Maxim Litvinov. The group decided that Stalin, then known by his earlier \"nom de guerre\" Koba, and the Armenian Simon Ter-Petrossian, known as Kamo, should organize a bank robbery in the city of Tiflis.\n\nThe 29-year-old Stalin was living in Tiflis with his wife Ekaterina and newborn son Yakov. Stalin was experienced at organizing robberies, and these exploits had helped him gain a reputation as the Centre's principal financier. Kamo, four years younger than Stalin, had a reputation for ruthlessness; later in his life he cut a man's heart from his chest. At the time of the conspiracy, Kamo ran a criminal organization called \"the Outfit\". Stalin said that Kamo was \"a master of disguise\", and Lenin called Kamo his \"Caucasian bandit\". Stalin and Kamo had grown up together, and Stalin had converted Kamo to Marxism.\n\nAfter the April meeting, Stalin and Litvinov travelled to Tiflis to inform Kamo of the plans and to organize the raid. According to Roman Brackman's \"The Secret File of Joseph Stalin: A Hidden Life\", while Stalin was working with the Bolsheviks to organize criminal activities, he was also acting as an informant for the Okhrana, the Russian secret police. Brackman alleges that once the group returned to Tiflis, Stalin informed his Okhrana contact, Officer Mukhtarov, about the bank robbery plans and promised to provide the Okhrana with more information at a later time.\n\nIn Tiflis, Stalin began planning for the robbery. He established contact with two individuals with inside information about the State Bank's operations: a bank clerk named Gigo Kasradze and an old school friend of Stalin's named Voznesensky who worked at the Tiflis banking mail office. Voznesensky later stated that he had helped out in the theft out of admiration for Stalin's romantic poetry. Voznesensky worked in the Tiflis banking mail office, giving him access to a secret schedule that showed the times that cash would be transferred by stagecoach to the Tiflis branch of the State Bank. Voznesensky notified Stalin that the bank would be receiving a large shipment of money by horse-drawn carriage on 26 June 1907.\n\nKrasin helped manufacture bombs to use in the attack on the stagecoach. Kamo's gang smuggled bombs into Tiflis by hiding them inside a sofa. Only weeks before the robbery, Kamo accidentally detonated one of Krasin's bombs while trying to set the fuse. The blast severely injured him in the eye, leaving a permanent scar. Kamo was confined to his bed for a month owing to intense pain, and had not fully recovered by the time of the robbery.\n\nOn the day of the robbery, 26 June 1907, the 20 organizers, including Stalin, met near Yerevan Square (just 2 minutes from the seminary, bank and viceroy's palace) to finalize their plans, and after the meeting, they went to their designated places in preparation for the attack. The Russian authorities had become aware that some large action was being planned by revolutionaries in Tiflis, and had increased the security presence in the main square; just prior to the robbery, they had been tipped off and were guarding every street corner in Yerevan Square. To deal with the increased security, gang members spotted patrolling gendarmes and police prior to the robbery and lookouts were posted looking down on the square from above.\n\nThe gang members mostly dressed themselves as peasants and waited on street corners with revolvers and grenades. In contrast to the others, Kamo was disguised as a cavalry captain and came to the square in a horse-drawn phaeton, a type of open carriage.\n\nThe conspirators took over the Tilipuchuri tavern facing the square in preparation for the robbery. A witness, David Sagirashvili, later stated that he had been walking in Yerevan Square when a friend named Bachua Kupriashvili, who later turned out to be one of the robbers, invited him into a tavern and asked him to stay. Once inside the tavern, Sagirashvili realized that armed men were stopping people from leaving. When they received a signal that the bank stagecoach was nearing the square, the armed men quickly left the building with pistols drawn.\n\nThe Tiflis branch of the State Bank of the Russian Empire had arranged to transport funds between the post office and the State Bank by horse-drawn stagecoach. Inside the stagecoach was the money, two guards with rifles, a bank cashier, and a bank accountant. A phaeton filled with armed soldiers rode behind the stagecoach, and mounted cossacks rode in front, next to, and behind the carriages.\n\nThe stagecoach made its way through the crowded square at about 10:30 am. Kupriashvili gave the signal, and the robbers hit the carriage with grenades, killing many of the horses and guards, and began shooting security men guarding the stagecoach and the square. Bombs were thrown from all directions. The Georgian newspaper \"Isari\" reported: \"No one could tell if the terrible shooting was the boom of cannons or explosion of bombs ... The sound caused panic everywhere ... almost across the whole city, people started running. Carriages and carts were galloping away\". The blasts were so strong that they knocked over nearby chimneys and broke every pane of glass for a mile around. Ekaterina Svanidze, Stalin's wife, was standing on a balcony at their home near the square with her family and young child. When they heard the explosions, they rushed back into the house terrified.\n\nOne of the injured horses harnessed to the bank stagecoach bolted, pulling the stagecoach with it, chased by Kupriashvili, Kamo, and another robber, Datiko Chibriashvili. Kupriashvili threw a grenade that blew off the horse's legs, but Kupriashvili was caught in the explosion, landing stunned on the ground. He regained consciousness and sneaked out of the square before police and military reinforcements arrived. Chibriashvili snatched the sacks of money from the stagecoach while Kamo rode up firing his pistol, and they and another robber threw the money into Kamo's phaeton. Pressed for time, they inadvertently left twenty thousand rubles behind, some of which was pocketed by one of the stagecoach drivers who was later arrested for the theft.\n\nAfter securing the money, Kamo quickly rode out of the square; encountering a police carriage, he pretended to be a captain of the cavalry, shouting, \"The money's safe. Run to the square.\" The deputy in the carriage obeyed, realizing only later that he had been fooled by an escaping robber. Kamo then rode to the gang's headquarters where he changed out of his uniform. All of the robbers quickly scattered, and none were caught.\n\nOne of the robbers, Eliso Lominadze, stole a teacher's uniform to disguise himself and came back to the square, gazing at the carnage. Fifty casualties lay wounded in the square along with the dead people and horses. The authorities stated that only three people had died, but documents in the Okhrana archives reveal that the true number was around forty.\n\nThe State Bank was not sure how much it actually lost from the robbery, but the best estimates were around 341,000 rubles, worth around 3.4 million US dollars as of 2008. About 91,000 rubles were in small untraceable bills, with the rest in large 500-ruble notes that were difficult to exchange because their serial numbers were known to the police.\n\nStalin's exact actions on the day of the robbery are unknown and disputed. One source, P. A. Pavlenko, claimed that Stalin attacked the carriage itself and had been wounded by a bomb fragment. Kamo later stated that Stalin took no active part in the robbery and had watched it from a distance. Another source stated in a police report that Stalin \"observed the ruthless bloodshed, smoking a cigarette, from the courtyard of a mansion.\" Another source claims that Stalin was actually at the railway station during the robbery and not at the square. Stalin's sister-in-law stated that Stalin came home the night of the robbery and told his family about its success.\n\nStalin's role was later questioned by fellow revolutionaries Boris Nicolaevsky and Leon Trotsky. The latter, Stalin's rival, was later assassinated on orders from Stalin. In his book \"Stalin – An Appraisal of the Man and his Influence\", Trotsky analyzed many publications describing the Tiflis expropriation and other Bolshevik militant activities of that time, and concluded, \"Others did the fighting; Stalin supervised them from afar\". In general, according to Nicolaevsky, \"The role played by Stalin in the activities of the Kamo group was subsequently exaggerated\". Kun later discovered official archive documents however clearly showing that \"from late 1904 or early 1905 Stalin took part in drawing up plans for expropriations\", adding, \"It is now certain that [Stalin] controlled from the wings the initial plans of the group\" that carried out the Tiflis robbery.\n\nThe robbery featured in headlines worldwide: \"Rain of Bombs: Revolutionaries Hurl Destruction among Large Crowds of People\" in the London \"Daily Mirror\", \"Tiflis Bomb Outrage\" in \"The Times\" of London, \"Catastrophe!\" in \"Le Temps\" in Paris, and \"Bomb Kills Many; $170,000 Captured\" in \"The New York Times\".\n\nAuthorities mobilized the army, closed roads, and surrounded the square hoping to secure the money and capture the criminals. A special detective unit was brought in to lead the police investigation. Unfortunately for the investigators, witness testimony was confusing and conflicting, and the authorities did not know which group was responsible for the robbery. Polish socialists, Armenians, anarchists, Socialist-Revolutionaries, and even the Russian State itself were blamed.\n\nAccording to Brackman, several days after the robbery the Okhrana agent Mukhtarov questioned Stalin in a secret apartment. The agents had heard rumors that Stalin had been seen watching passively during the robbery. Mukhtarov asked Stalin why he had not informed them about it, and Stalin stated that he had provided adequate information to the authorities to prevent the theft. The questioning escalated into a heated argument; Mukhtarov hit Stalin in the face and had to be restrained by other Okhrana officers. After this incident, Mukhtarov was suspended from the Okhrana, and Stalin was ordered to leave Tiflis and go to Baku to await a decision in the case. Stalin left Baku with 20,000 rubles in stolen money in July 1907. While Brackman claims to have found evidence of this incident, whether Stalin cooperated with the Okhrana during his early life has been a subject of debate among historians for many decades and has yet to be resolved.\n\nThe funds from the robbery were originally kept at the house of Stalin's friends in Tiflis, Mikha and Maro Bochoridze. The money was sewn into a mattress so that it could be moved and stored easily without arousing suspicion. The mattress was moved to another safe house, then later put on the director's couch at the Tiflis Meteorological Observatory, possibly because Stalin had worked there. Some sources claim that Stalin himself helped put the money in the observatory. The director stated that he never knew that the stolen money had been stored under his roof.\n\nA large portion of the stolen money was eventually moved by Kamo, who took the money to Lenin in Finland, which was then part of the Russian Empire. Kamo spent the remaining summer months staying with Lenin at his dacha. That autumn, Kamo traveled to Paris, to Belgium to buy arms and ammunition, and to Bulgaria to buy 200 detonators. He next traveled to Berlin and delivered a letter from Lenin to a prominent Bolshevik physician, Yakov Zhitomirsky, asking him to treat Kamo's eye, which had not completely healed from the bomb blast. Unknown to Lenin, Zhitomirsky had been secretly working as an agent of the Russian government and quickly informed the Okhrana, who asked the Berlin police to arrest Kamo. When they did so, they found a forged Austrian passport and a suitcase with the detonators, which he was planning to use in another large bank robbery.\n\nAfter hearing of Kamo's arrest, Lenin feared that he too might be arrested and fled from Finland with his wife. To avoid being followed, Lenin walked three miles (4.8 km) across a frozen lake at night to catch a steamer at a nearby island. On his trek across the ice, Lenin and his two companions nearly drowned when the ice started to give way underneath them; Lenin later admitted it seemed like it would have been a \"stupid way to die\". Lenin and his wife escaped and headed to Switzerland.\n\nThe unmarked bills from the robbery were easy to exchange, but the serial numbers of the 500-ruble notes were known to the authorities, making them impossible to exchange in Russian banks. By the end of 1907, Lenin decided to exchange the remaining 500-ruble notes abroad. Krasin had his forger try to change some of the serial numbers. Two hundred of these notes were transported abroad by Martyn Lyadov (they were sewn into his vest by the wives of Lenin and Bogdanov at Lenin's headquarters in Kuokkala). Lenin's plan was to have various individuals exchange the stolen 500-ruble notes simultaneously at a number of banks throughout Europe. Zhitomirsky heard of the plan and reported it to the Okhrana, who contacted police departments throughout Europe asking them to arrest anyone who tried to cash the notes.\n\nIn January 1908, a number of individuals were arrested while attempting to exchange the notes. \"The New York Times\" reported that one woman who had tried to cash a marked 500-ruble note later tried to swallow evidence of her plans to meet her accomplices after the police were summoned, but the police stopped her from swallowing the paper by grabbing her throat, retrieved the paper, and later arrested her accomplices at the train station. Most prominent among those arrested was Maxim Litvinov, caught while boarding a train with his mistress at Paris's Gare du Nord with twelve of the 500-ruble notes he intended to cash in London. The French Minister of Justice expelled Litvinov and his mistress from French territory, outraging the Russian government, which had requested his extradition. Officially the French government stated that Russia's request for extradition had been submitted too late, but by some accounts, they denied the extradition because French socialists had applied political pressure to secure his release.\n\nNadezhda Krupskaya, Lenin's wife, discussed these events in her memoirs:\n\nBrackman claims that despite the arrests, Lenin continued his attempts to exchange the 500-ruble notes and did manage to trade some of them for 10,000 rubles from an unknown woman in Moscow. According to Nicolaevsky, however, Lenin abandoned attempts to exchange the notes after the arrests, but Bogdanov tried (and failed) to exchange some notes in North America, while Krasin succeeded in forging new serial numbers and managed to exchange several more notes. Soon after, Lenin's associates burned all the 500-ruble notes remaining in their possession.\n\nAfter Kamo was arrested in Berlin and awaiting trial, he received a note from Krasin through his lawyer Oscar Kohn telling him to feign insanity so that he would be declared unfit to stand trial. To demonstrate his insanity, he refused food, tore his clothes, tore out his hair, attempted to hang himself, slashed his wrists, and ate his own excrement. To make sure that he was not faking his condition, German doctors stuck pins under his nails, struck him in the back with a long needle, and burned him with hot irons, but he did not break his act. After all of these tests, the chief doctor of the Berlin asylum wrote in June 1909 that \"there is no foundation to the belief that [Kamo] is feigning insanity. He is without doubt mentally ill, is incapable of appearing before a court, or of serving sentence. It is extremely doubtful that he can completely recover.\"\n\nIn 1909 Kamo was extradited to a Russian prison, where he continued to feign insanity. In April 1910, he was put on trial for his role in the Tiflis robbery, where he ignored the proceedings and openly fed a pet bird that he had hidden in his shirt. The trial was suspended while officials determined his sanity. The court eventually found that he had been sane when he committed the Tiflis robbery, but was presently mentally ill and should be confined until he recovered. In August 1911, after feigning insanity for more than three years, Kamo escaped from the psychiatric ward of a prison in Tiflis by sawing through his window bars and climbing down a homemade rope.\n\nKamo later discussed these experiences:\nAfter escaping, Kamo met up with Lenin in Paris, and was distressed to hear that a \"rupture had occurred\" between Lenin, Bogdanov, and Krasin. Kamo told Lenin about his arrest and how he had simulated insanity while in prison. After leaving Paris, Kamo eventually met up with Krasin and planned another armed robbery. Kamo was caught before the robbery took place and was put on trial in Tiflis in 1913 for his exploits including the Tiflis bank robbery. This time, Kamo did not feign insanity while imprisoned, but he did pretend that he had forgotten all that happened to him when he was previously \"insane\". The trial was brief and Kamo was given four death sentences.\n\nSeemingly doomed to death, Kamo then had the good luck along with other prisoners to have his sentence commuted to a long prison term as part of the celebrations of the Romanov dynasty tricentennial in 1913. Kamo was released from prison after the February Revolution in 1917.\n\nApart from Kamo, none of the organizers of the robbery were ever brought to trial, and initially it was not clear who was behind the raid, but after the arrest of Kamo, Litvinov and others, the Bolshevik involvement became obvious. The Mensheviks felt betrayed and angry; the robbery proved that the Bolshevik Centre operated independently from the unified Central Committee and was taking actions explicitly prohibited by the party congress. The leader of the Mensheviks, Georgi Plekhanov, called for separation from the Bolsheviks. Plekhanov's colleague, Julius Martov, said the Bolshevik Centre was something between a secret factional central committee and a criminal gang. The Tiflis Committee of the party expelled Stalin and several members for the robbery. The party's investigations into Lenin's conduct were thwarted by the Bolsheviks.\n\nThe robbery made the Bolsheviks even less popular in Georgia and left the Bolsheviks in Tiflis without effective leadership. After the death by natural causes of his wife Ekaterina Svanidze in November 1907, Stalin rarely returned to Tiflis. Other leading Bolsheviks in Georgia, such as Mikhail Tskhakaya and Filipp Makharadze, were largely absent from Georgia after 1907. Another prominent Tiflis Bolshevik, Stepan Shahumyan, moved to Baku. The Bolsheviks' popularity in Tiflis continued to fall, and by 1911, there were only about 100 Bolsheviks left in the city.\n\nThe robbery also made the Bolshevik Centre unpopular more widely among European social democrat groups. Lenin's desire to distance himself from the legacy of the robbery may have been one of the sources of the rift between him and Bogdanov and Krasin. Stalin distanced himself from Kamo's gang and never publicized his role in the robbery.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution of 1917, many of the Bolsheviks who had been involved in the robbery gained political power in the new Soviet Union. Lenin went on to become its first premier until his death in 1924, followed by Stalin until his death in 1953. Maxim Litvinov became a Soviet diplomat, serving as People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs (1930–1939). Leonid Krasin initially quit politics after the split from Lenin in 1909, but rejoined the Bolsheviks after the 1917 Revolution and served as the Soviet trade representative in London and as People's Commissar for Foreign Trade until his death in 1926.\n\nAfter Kamo's release from prison, he worked in the Soviet customs office, by some accounts because he was too unstable to work for the secret police. He died in 1922 when a truck hit him while he was cycling. Although there is no proof of foul play, some have theorized that Stalin ordered his death to keep him quiet.\n\nBogdanov was expelled from the party in 1909, ostensibly over philosophical differences. After the Bolshevik Revolution, he became the leading ideologist of Proletkult, an organization designed to foster a new proletarian culture.\n\nYerevan Square, where the robbery took place, was renamed Lenin Square by the Soviet authorities in 1921, and a large statue of Lenin was erected in his honor in 1956. Despite being convicted of the bloody robbery, Kamo was originally buried and had a monument erected in his honor in Pushkin Gardens, near Yerevan Square. Created by the sculptor Iakob Nikoladze, it was removed during Stalin's rule, and Kamo's remains were moved to another location. The statue of Lenin was torn down in August 1991—one of the final moments of the Soviet Union—and replaced by the Liberty Monument in 2006. The name of the square was changed from Lenin Square to Freedom Square in 1991.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26505864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26505864", "title": "African immigration to Norway", "text": "African immigration to Norway\n\nAfrican immigration to Norway refers to immigrants to Norway from Africa. An estimated 88,764 people in Norway are either first or second generation immigrants from Africa.\n\nImmigration from countries in Africa to Norway grew slightly from the end of the 1980s, but grew markedly from 2000 onwards. The growth is owed mainly to a rise in the number of immigrants from North and Northeast Africa, including Somalia (25,496), Morocco (8,058), Eritrea (5,789) and Ethiopia (5,156).\n\nCompared to North and Northeast Africans, the percentage of Africans from other regions as a proportion of recent immigrants to Norway from Africa is relatively low.\n\nMost other Africans in Norway come from West Africa, especially Ghana (2,034), Gambia (1,409) and Nigeria (1,247). There is also a sizeable population of Africans from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (2,050).\n\nMost African Norwegians have a background from the following countries:\n\nNorwegians with African background live in the following regions:\n"}
{"id": "6967435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6967435", "title": "Age of consent reform in the United Kingdom", "text": "Age of consent reform in the United Kingdom\n\nSince the 1970s, a number of movements have taken place in the United Kingdom in favour of reforming or abolishing the age of consent, in support of children's rights, gay liberationism or, more recently, \"as a means to avoid unwanted pregnancies, and sexually transmitted infections via education and health promotion\".\n\nIn 1275, the first age of consent was set in England, at age 12 (Westminster 1 statute). In 1875, the Offences Against the Person Act raised the age to 13 in Great Britain and Ireland, and ten years later the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 1885 raised it to 16. In 1917, a bill raising the age of consent in Great Britain and Ireland from 16 to 17 was defeated by only one vote.\n\nIn 1950, the Parliament of Northern Ireland passed the Children and Young Persons Act, which successfully raised the age of consent to 17. However, in 2008 this enactment was reversed by the British government in the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008, which made the age of consent in Northern Ireland 16, regardless of sexual orientation or gender. The reason given for this Order being made was to bring the age of consent into line with the rest of the United Kingdon. The Criminal Justice Minister, Paul Goggins, said there was no compelling reason for the age to be different in Northern Ireland.\n\nThe age of consent in Ireland is 17, in relation to vaginal, oral, or anal sex, and vaginal or anal penetration. This gives it one of the highest ages of consent in the European Union. Under the sexual offences legislation in Ireland, a girl under 17 cannot be prosecuted for engaging in sexual intercourse, even if her partner is younger. For example, a girl is 16 and a boy is 13; she is immune from criminal charges, but a 16-year-old boy having sex with a 13-year-old girl would result in jail and registration as a sex offender.\n\nThe male homosexual age of consent in the United Kingdom was set at 21 in the Sexual Offences Act of 1967 (following the recommendations of the Wolfenden Report), then lowered to 18 in the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, and finally lowered to 16 in England and Scotland in the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act of 2000.\n\nCurrently, the age of consent for penetrative sex, oral sex and mutual masturbation in the United Kingdom is 16 years. If any individual has sex with someone under this age, then he or she may be charged with a criminal offence and may receive a 14-year prison sentence or if they are under 18 a 5-year prison sentence. Similarly, the Sexual Offences Act 2000 prohibits a person in a position of trust from performing sexual acts with someone who cannot consent, which includes minors and \"very vulnerable people\". It is primarily used for the protection of those who are above the age of consent but under the age of 18, or who have mental disabilities.\n\nIn April 1972, the Society of Friends Social Responsibility Council (a Quaker conference), passed a resolution in favour of lowering the age of consent in Britain from 16 to 14. In July of that year, Dr. John Robinson, Dean of Trinity College, Cambridge, and chair of the UK's Sexual Law Reform Society, defended an age of consent of 14 in a lecture at a Methodist Conference.\n\nIn May 1974, the Campaign for Homosexual Equality suggested a basic age of consent of 16, but that could be as low as 12 \"in cases where a defendant could prove the existence of meaningful consent\". The \"Sexual Law Reform Society\" proposed in September of that year lowering the age of consent to 14, with the requirement that below the age of 18 the burden of proof that consent for sexual activities between the parties existed would be the responsibility of the older participant.\n\nIn March 1976, the National Council for Civil Liberties (NCCL), called for an equal age of consent of 14, or 10, in Britain. The submission to the Criminal Law Revision Committee generated extensive newspaper coverage. While the report recognised the merits of abolishing the age of consent, it proposed retaining a prohibition on sex under the age of 14 \"as a compromise with public attitudes\", stating that \"although it is both logical and consistent with modern knowledge about child development, to suggest that the age of consent should be abolished, we fear that, given the present state of public attitudes on this topic, it will not be politically possible to abolish the age of consent\". They also argued that \"childhood sexual experiences, willingly engaged in, with an adult result in no identifiable damage\" and suggested that more harm was caused when the children retold their experiences in court or to the press. The submission was signed by Harriet Harman, who later became leader of the House of Commons and deputy leader of the Labour Party. Harman denies ever supporting the age of consent being lowered to 10.\n\nIn 2000 a committee of twelve teenage girls, set up to advise the UK government on youth issues, recommended that the age of consent be reduced to 12. The website from which the group was recruited conducted a poll of 42,000 girls between the ages of 12 and 16 on the age of consent; 87% agreed that it should be lowered from 16.\n\nContemporary arguments for lowering the age of consent in the United Kingdom do not necessarily comprise values like individual freedom or children's rights. Specifically, they tend to focus on a pragmatic analysis of a new situation, including puberty at earlier ages, a higher proportion of young people sexually active below the age of consent and a trend to negotiate sexual behavior in secrecy in certain age groups. Sociologist Matthew Waites, author of \"The age of Consent – Young People, Sexuality and Citizenship\", observed that:\n\nBy the mid-1970s the case for a lower minimum age for all was finding wider support, with questions being posed concerning the merits of lowering the legal age for male/female sexual behaviour – not only within grassroots sexual movements, but also within religious organisations and liberal intellectual circles. [...] Significant sections of liberal opinion in the political mainstream, including prominent campaigners for children’s interests and sexual health, support at least some selective decriminalisation of sexual activity between young people under 18.\n\nMore generally in academic work, particularly in sociology, recent writing on human sexual behaviour from various perspectives has questioned the extent of prohibitions on sexual activity involving children.\n\nOn 17 October 2010, on the BBC's \"Sunday Morning Live\" program, the viewing public was asked for their text poll, \"Should the age of consent be lowered to 13?\" At the end of the program it was announced that 16% voted yes and 84% voted no. Plans to lower the age of consent to 15 from the Faculty of Public Health president, Professor John Ashton, were rejected by Prime Minister David Cameron and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg in 2013.\n\nResearch by Jean Golding shows that puberty is occurring earlier than in the 1970s, with an average age of menarche in girls now at 12 years and 10 months, compared to the average age of 14 for puberty in general that was accepted as evidence by the Policy Advisory Committee of the 1970s. Golding's research has found that \"one girl in six hits puberty at the age of eight\".\n\nAccording to a recent British research conducted by the Centre for Family and Household Research, \"an increasing proportion of young people are sexually active below the age of consent\". Additionally, the UK's first National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles (NATSAL), which collected data up to 1990, found that a high proportion of young people engage in other forms of sexual activity prohibited by the law, including mutual masturbation and oral sex, beginning on average at the age of 14.\n\nWaites also observed that \"qualitative research reveals a picture of many young people negotiating sexual behaviour in a context of secrecy, constrained by power relationships while lacking confidence, resources and support\". He added, \"It is argued by some sexual health professionals that the age of consent should be lowered [...] to facilitate more effective support from health and education services\".\n\nPeter Tatchell, British gay activist and author, has defended an age of consent of 14 in Britain since the mid-1990s, repeating the arguments presented in the 1970s by the NCCL and the Sexual Law Reform Society. He cited Romeo and Juliet, aged 14 and 13, as \"one of the greatest love stories of all time\".\n\nAlthough he does not favour total abolition, Francis Bennion, a British liberal humanist also influenced by the historical context of the issue, emphasised the fact that children are \"sexual beings\", concluding that this in itself makes legal prohibitions unfair.\n\nMiranda Sawyer, British journalist specialised in music and youth culture, suggested that \"we have sexual feelings from a very early age\", considering that sex is \"natural behaviour\". She favoured lowering the age of consent to 12 in the UK while labeling the criminalisation of sexual activity under the age of 16 as \"laughably unrealistic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53566671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53566671", "title": "Anwar Iqbal", "text": "Anwar Iqbal\n\nAnwar Iqbal Baloch () is a veteran Pakistani television actor and director, who got fame with the hit Pakistani drama series \"Shama\" and later with the historic epic series \"Akhri Chattan\" (آخری چٹان) by Naseem Hijazi in the early 80's. He is a son of a well-known politician from Balochistan, Mr. Haji Muhammed Iqbal Baloch, who played prominent role in the independence of Pakistan as well as in highlighting the importance of \"Gawadar\" port to the Pakistani government. He is credited with the production of the first Balochi feature film, \"Hammal o Mahganj\" in Pakistan.\n\nIqbal completed his Masters from University of Karachi and commenced his career in 1976 with the production (and acting in) \"Hammal o Mahganj\". He went on to produce three years later the Sindhi drama \"Dosten jo Piar\", but he got his real breakthrough with the popular family drama series \"Shama\", which became a widespread success and household name throughout the nation in late 70's and early 80's. He cites his initial success on the silver screen as a result of encouragement by the famous Pakistani writer Fatima Surayya Bajia and veteran director and producer Qasim Jalali. He rapidly emerged as a prominent actor with his memorable role in Shama as \"Nana ki Jan Qamru (The beloved grandson of Qamar)\". His debut as a director began with the Drama \"Ishq Pecha\" in 1984. Since then, he has acted in countless Urdu and Sindhi drama's and directed a few. He is also a popular teacher, teaching at a private school and working with a private TV channel.\n\nHe is particularly noted for his historic epic roles, for which he has been appreciated by, among others, the veteran PTV director Agha Nasir for his impressive depiction of the historic character \"Shiwani Khan (Muhammad Shaybani\" in the PTV Series \"Babur\" (life story of the first Mogul emperor Babur).\n\n"}
{"id": "37671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37671", "title": "Aristocracy", "text": "Aristocracy\n\nAristocracy (Greek ἀριστοκρατία \"aristokratía\", from ἄριστος \"\" \"excellent\", and κράτος, kratos 'rule') is a form of government that places strength in the hands of a small, privileged ruling class. The term derives from the Greek \"aristokratia\", meaning \"rule of the best-born\".\nThe term is synonymous with hereditary government, and hereditary succession is its primary philosophy, after which the hereditary monarch appoints officers as they see fit. At the time of the word's origins in ancient Greece, the Greeks conceived it as rule by the best qualified citizens—and often contrasted it favourably with monarchy, rule by an individual. In later times, aristocracy was usually seen as rule by a privileged group, the aristocratic class, and has since been contrasted with democracy. The idea of hybrid forms which have aspects of both aristocracy and democracy are in use in the parliament form.\n\nThe concept evolved in Ancient Greece, whereby a council of leading citizens was commonly empowered and contrasted with representative democracy, in which a council of citizens was appointed as the \"senate\" of a city state or other political unit. The Greeks did not like the concept of monarchy, and as their democratic system fell, aristocracy was upheld.\nIn the 1651 book \"Leviathan\", Thomas Hobbes describes an aristocracy as a commonwealth in which the representative of the citizens is an assembly by part only. It is a system in which only a small part of the population represents the government; \"certaine men distinguished from the rest\". Modern depictions of aristocracy tend to regard it not as the ancient Greek concept of rule by the best, but more as an oligarchy or plutocracy—rule by the few or the wealthy.\n\nThe concept of aristocracy per Plato, has an ideal state ruled by the philosopher king. Plato describes these \"philosopher kings\" as \"those who love the sight of truth\" (Republic 475c) and supports the idea with the analogy of a captain and his ship or a doctor and his medicine. According to him, sailing and health are not things that everyone is qualified to practice by nature. A large part of the Republic then addresses how the educational system should be set up to produce these philosopher kings.\n\n"}
{"id": "35725164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35725164", "title": "Asaro'o language", "text": "Asaro'o language\n\nAsaro'o, or Morafa, is one of the Finisterre languages of Papua New Guinea. Molet may be a dialect or a closely related language.\n"}
{"id": "24623960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24623960", "title": "Bailey's Beach", "text": "Bailey's Beach\n\nBailey's Beach (officially named and owned by the Spouting Rock Beach Association) is an elite private beach and club in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nAccording to the \"Providence Journal\", Bailey's Beach in Newport Rhode Island was\n\nfounded in the 1890s after new trolley service gave mill workers from Fall River ready access to Easton's Beach, a wide expanse closer to downtown Newport that the well-to-do had claimed as their own. Not wishing to associate with people who took their lunches in buckets, high society relocated several miles to Spouting Rock, smaller and often seaweedy but safely beyond the reach of trolleys. Today, approximately 500 families belong, and for the most part, new members are added only when old ones die.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\"\n\nSpouting Rock Beach Association, named for a geological formation, and membership in it tends to define summer life here in ways that are sometimes difficult to comprehend, even for insiders.\n\nThe organization has attracted notable members of nearby families such as the Vanderbilt family, and the Astor family. The 1938 Hurricane destroyed the original clubhouse, and the current clubhouse and cabanas appear relatively modest to passersby. Bailey's Beach was one of the centers of elite Newport social life along with other institutions such as the Redwood Library, Newport Country Club, Trinity Church, Clambake Club, Newport Reading Room, New York Yacht Club summer clubhouse and the Newport Casino. Despite the exclusive status of the beach club and membership, the northeast end of the beach is open to the public and known colloquially as Reject's Beach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32263439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32263439", "title": "Bankan Tey Dogon", "text": "Bankan Tey Dogon\n\nBankan Tey Dogon, at first called Walo-Kumbe Dogon after the two main villages it is spoken in, also known as Walo and Walonkore, is a divergent, recently described Dogon language spoken in Mali. It was first reported online by Roger Blench, who reports that it is \"clearly related to Nanga\", which is only known from one report from 1953.\n\nA third village investigated at the time, Been, speaks a related but lexically distinct form, Ben Tey Dogon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3709336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3709336", "title": "Bilala people", "text": "Bilala people\n\nThe Bilala or Bulala are a Muslim people that live around Lake Fitri, in the Batha Prefecture, in central Chad. The last Chadian census in 1993 stated that they numbered 136,629 persons. Their language, Naba, is divided in four dialects and is in the Nilo-Saharan group; it is shared by two of their neighbours, the Kuka and the Medogo. These three peoples are collectively known as Lisi and are believed to be descendants of main ethnic groups of the Sultanate of Yao.\n\nThey first appeared in the 14th century near lake Fitri as a nomadic clan led by scions of the Sayfawa dynasty. They were originally a political entity that came about as a result of fusion of the Kayi (old Zaghawa = current Kanembu, the clan exist even today in Kanem) and Ngizimis Kanembu clan, which exists event today in Dibbinintchi, Lake Tchad inhabitants of the Fittri region. Settled east of the Kanem Empire, in today's Chad, they shattered the empire's power, killing five of six of Kanem's \"mais\" (kings) between 1376 and 1400. \n\nAt the end the Bulala conquered Kanem and forced the Kanem \"mais\" to migrate to Bornu. As a result, the Bulala put their hands on Kanem, founding in the 15th century the Muslim sultanate of Yao. The Kanem-Bornu Empire counter-attacked a century later under Ali Gaji. Kanem was retaken by Ali's son after a great battle at Garni Kiyala, forcing the Bulala to move east, where they were to remain a menace for centuries to Kanem-Bornu. It continued also to be a flourishing kingdom: the traveller Leo Africanus even thought that the Bulala's reign was richer than Kanem-Bornu for its prosperous trade with Egypt.\n\nTheir power survived in diminished forms until the onset of colonialism, when they submitted to the French.\n\n"}
{"id": "46567176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46567176", "title": "Brazilian Mexicans", "text": "Brazilian Mexicans\n\nThere is a Brazilian diaspora in Mexico. Although the first Portuguese-speaking immigrants in Mexico were the Portuguese, Brazilians today are the largest Portuguese-speaking community living in the country.\n\nThere has been a Brazilian presence in Mexico since at least 1895, when the National Census counted 91 residents. As a result of the 1964 Brazilian coup d'état, around one hundred individuals were admitted into Mexico as political refugees.\n\nBrazilians residing in Mexico are mainly businessmen, traders, models, escorts, athletes, students, academics and scientists. There are major Brazilian communities in Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Puebla and Ensenada. There is also a Brazilian presence in the Riviera Maya.\n\nFounded in 1945 in Mexico City, the main cultural organization is the Centro Cultural Brasil-México. With more than fourteen thousand works, the center houses the largest collection of Brazilian books in Mexico. The collection grew through the donations from the Brazilian community, the Brazilian Embassy and publishers that have participated in the Guadalajara International Book Fair. Other organizations include the Casa do Brasil and Ce.Bras, both also in Mexico City.\n\n Football \n Other \n\n"}
{"id": "28939573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28939573", "title": "Chinese Household Income Project", "text": "Chinese Household Income Project\n\nThe Chinese Household Income Project, 2002, measures and estimates the distribution of personal income and related economic factors in both rural and urban areas of the People's Republic of China. The principal investigators based their definition of income on cash payments and on a broad range of additional components. Data were collected through a series of questionnaire-based interviews conducted in rural and urban areas at the end of 2002. There are ten separate datasets. The first four datasets were derived from the urban questionnaire. The first contains data about individuals living in urban areas. The second contains data about urban households. The third contains individual-level economic variables copied from the initial urban interview form. The fourth contains household-level economic variables copied from the initial urban interview form. The fifth dataset contains village-level data, which was obtained by interviewing village leaders. The sixth contains data about individuals living in rural areas. The seventh contains data about rural households, as well as most of the data from a social network questionnaire which was presented to rural households. The eighth contains the rest of the data from the social network questionnaire and is specifically about the activities of rural school-age children. The ninth dataset contains data about individuals who have migrated from rural to urban areas, and the tenth dataset contains data about rural-urban migrant households.\n\n"}
{"id": "210879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210879", "title": "Consilience (book)", "text": "Consilience (book)\n\nConsilience: The Unity of Knowledge is a 1998 book by biologist E. O. Wilson, in which the author discusses methods that have been used to unite the sciences and might in the future unite them with the humanities. Wilson uses the term \"consilience\" to describe the synthesis of knowledge from different specialized fields of human endeavor.\n\n\"Literally a 'jumping together' of knowledge by the linking of facts and fact-based theory across disciplines to create a common groundwork of explanation.\" (page 7)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "722374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=722374", "title": "Danny Almonte", "text": "Danny Almonte\n\nDanny Almonte (born April 7, 1987) is a former baseball player, currently an assistant baseball coach at Cardinal Hayes High School in New York City. Almonte was born in Moca, Dominican Republic. A former Little League pitcher that threw up to , he became the subject of considerable media attention in 2001. Considered a phenomenon as he led his Bronx team to a third-place finish in the 2001 Little League World Series, Almonte was revealed to have actually been two years too old to play Little League baseball. Although there were many allegations during the 2001 Series, the truth was not revealed until weeks later.\n\nIn 2000, Almonte moved to the Bronx, where he began playing Little League baseball. His father, Felipe, who had moved to the United States six years earlier, had begun a youth baseball league in Moca that still bears his name.\n\nWith his high leg kick and a fastball that reached a top speed of 76 miles per hour (the equivalent, for that distance, of a 102 mph major-league fastball), the 5-foot-8 Danny soon became a sensation. His imposing frame won him the nickname \"Little Unit,\" a nod to Randy \"Big Unit\" Johnson. He threw a no-hitter in the 2001 Mid-Atlantic Regional finals against State College, Pennsylvania, sending his team to the Little League World Series in South Williamsport, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn a round-robin game four days later, Almonte also threw the first perfect game in the Little League World Series since 1979, against the team from Apopka, Florida. However, his team was defeated by the same Florida team in the U.S. championship game (Almonte could not pitch in the championship game under Little League rules, as he had pitched a complete game the day before). He finished the 2001 tournament with 62 strikeouts (out of 72 batters faced), giving up only three hits in three starts, and only one unearned run. His team, nicknamed \"the Baby Bombers\" because they played in the shadow of Yankee Stadium, was the feel-good story of the Little League World Series, and were honored before a New York Yankees game shortly after the series. They also received the key to the city from Mayor Rudy Giuliani.\n\nDanny's imposing appearance and command on the mound, as well as the velocity of his fastball, led to rumors that he was older than 12 years old, the age limit for Little League Baseball. A team from Staten Island hired a private investigator to look into the ages of the entire team. A similar investigation was conducted by a team from Pequannock Township, New Jersey. Neither turned up any evidence that the players were too old. Rolando Paulino, the league president, adamantly insisted that Danny had in fact been born on April 7, 1989. Paulino was initially backed by Little League and Dominican officials, who said the Baby Bombers had followed all proper procedures regarding age verification. Officials at Little League headquarters even took the unusual step of checking each of the player documents due to the rumors surrounding the team. Little League officials had increased scrutiny of player eligibility after the 1992 Series, in which the champions from Zamboanga City in The Philippines were stripped of their title due to a large number of out-of-district and overage players.\n\n\"Sports Illustrated\" reporters went to the civil records building in Moca two weeks after the end of the Little League World Series. They discovered a notation in the birth ledger showing that in 1994, Felipe Almonte had registered his son's birth date as April 7, 1987 at Dr. Toribio Bencosme Hospital—which would have made him 14 years old at the time of the Little League World Series. It was common for Dominican parents to wait years before registering the birth of a child.\n\nTheir report, posted on the magazine's website just before being published, triggered a full investigation by Little League, even as Almonte and his teammates were being feted in the Bronx. His mother, Sonia Rojas Breton, owned a handwritten birth certificate saying that he had been born at home in Jamao with the help of a midwife in 1989. She had registered Danny's 1989 birth date in 2000.\n\nBoth of Almonte's parents, though separated, insisted their son was born in 1989, condemning the other documents as false. Felipe Almonte appeared on \"Good Morning America\" at the time of the investigation, proclaiming his son's innocence.\n\nAs part of Dominican officials' investigation, Victor Romero, head of the national public records office, interviewed the witnesses whose signatures appeared on the 1989 birth certificate. They both denied knowing Danny's parents, let alone signing the certificate. On August 31, Romero announced that Danny had in fact been born in 1987.\n\nAs a result, Danny was retroactively declared ineligible, and the Baby Bombers had to forfeit all their wins in tournament play. All of their records were removed from the books, and the team was required to demonstrate compliance with all regulations before entering the 2002 tournament. Felipe Almonte was banned from Little League competition for life. Paulino was also banned, since Little League rules make the league president responsible for player eligibility. Dominican prosecutors filed criminal charges against Felipe Almonte for falsifying a birth certificate. Danny, who did not speak English at the time, apparently knew nothing about the falsified documents and was cleared of wrongdoing. Little League president Stephen Keener said that Danny and his teammates had been \"used ... in a most contemptible and despicable way\" and that \"millions of Little Leaguers around the world were deceived.\" ESPN's Jim Caple called Felipe Almonte \"the worst stereotype of the Little League parent sprung to life.\" Danny's godmother later begged forgiveness, saying that \"we had to commit this little fraud\" to give Danny a chance to compete in a tournament as significant as the Little League World Series.\n\nAbout the same time, New York City child welfare officials discovered that Almonte had not been enrolled in school for the 2000–01 year—which would be a violation of state law, and grounds for placing Danny in foster care. Danny's registration listed him as attending Public School 70 in the Bronx. However, Dominican school officials said they had records that Danny had actually attended school in the Dominican Republic until June 15. This would have made him ineligible for the Little League World Series even if he had actually been 12 years old. Little League rules require a player to have appeared in at least half of his team's games by June 15 in order to be eligible for the all-star team that competes in the tournament. Danny then enrolled at Public School 52 in the Bronx in September.\n\nAfter his father's visa expired, Danny remained in New York under the guardianship of Rolando Paulino. He played, along with four of his former teammates, in the 2004 Public Schools Athletic League championship. In early 2005, Danny moved to the Miami area, where he did not play baseball due to residency requirements. The following year he returned to New York, where he pitched for James Monroe High School in the Bronx.\n\nIn September 2005, Almonte was rumored to have been married to an older woman. This allegation was later confirmed in May 2006 as Almonte proclaimed he was married to 30-year-old Rosy Perdomo.\n\nWhile in the National Amateur Baseball Federation (NABF) wood-bat summer league, he played for Youth Service.\n\nThere had been some reports that he would be selected in the 2006 Major League Baseball Draft, though this did not happen. He attended a Major League tryout in October 2006. After the draft he said he would play baseball for New Mexico Junior College in Hobbs, New Mexico. The team made it to the National Junior College championship game in 2007.\n\nIn 2007, Almonte joined the Southern Illinois Miners of the Frontier League, an independent minor-league circuit—and thus forfeited his NCAA collegiate eligibility. He pitched his first game on May 27, 2007 against the Evansville Otters. The Miners lost, 3–2. He was released on June 30, 2007. His record was 0–1, with a 5.29 ERA in six appearances. By at least one account, his poor performance was due to his being out of shape at the time.\n\nIn fall 2007, Almonte enrolled as a freshman in Western Oklahoma State College, a community college in Altus, Oklahoma, where he pitched and played right field for the Pioneers. Almonte and the Pioneers were ranked fourth in the National Junior College Athletic Association Division 2 poll and advanced to the NJCAA D-2 World Series. Almonte finished as one of the top hitters in JUCO baseball, hitting .497 with 14 home runs and going 7–1 with one save as a pitcher. In his second year at the school, Almonte hit .472, with 18 home runs, and had a pitching record of 9–0. Despite those statistics, however, he was not selected by any Major League Baseball organization in the Rule 4 draft.\n\nForced to give up pitching due to a sore arm, Almonte played semi-pro baseball in the summer of 2009 as an outfielder. As of 2010, Almonte had returned to the Bronx, where he was serving as a volunteer assistant coach for his high school alma mater's baseball team. At that time, he was reportedly no longer with his wife, though he would not discuss details of the relationship. Almonte indicated an intent to return to semi-pro baseball that summer, after the end of the school year, but said that he no longer held expectations of some day playing in the Major Leagues.\n\nThe episode \"Foul Play\" of the legal drama series \"Law & Order\" was inspired by Almonte's story.\n\n"}
{"id": "40075229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40075229", "title": "Datadog", "text": "Datadog\n\nDatadog is a monitoring service for cloud-scale applications, providing monitoring of servers, databases, tools, and services, through a SaaS-based data analytics platform.\n\nDatadog uses a Go based agent, rewritten from scratch since its major version 6.0.0 released on February 28, 2018. It was formerly Python based , forked from the original created in 2009 by David Mytton for Server Density (previously called Boxed Ice). Its backend is built using a number of open and closed source technologies including D3, Apache Cassandra, Kafka, PostgreSQL, etc..\n\nIn 2014, Datadog support was broadened to multiple cloud service providers including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform and Red Hat OpenShift. Today, the company supports over 150 integrations out-of-the-box.\n\nDatadog was founded in 2010 by Olivier Pomel and Alexis Lê-Quôc, who met while working at Wireless Generation. After Wireless Generation was acquired by NewsCorp, the two set out to create a product that could reduce the friction they experienced between developer and system-admin teams, who were often working at cross-purposes.\n\nThey built Datadog to be a cloud infrastructure monitoring service, with a dashboard, alerting, and visualizations of metrics. As cloud adoption increased, Datadog grew rapidly and expanded its product offering to cover service providers including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform, Red Hat OpenShift, and OpenStack.\n\nIn 2015 Datadog announced the acquisition of Mortar Data, bringing on its team and adding its data and analytics capabilities to Datadog’s platform. That year Datadog also opened a research and development office in Paris.\n\nIn 2016 Datadog moved its New York City headquarters to a full floor of the New York Times Building to support its growing team, which doubled over the course of the year. Datadog announced the beta-release of Application Performance Monitoring in 2016, offering for the first time a full-stack monitoring solution. As of 2017, the company has close to 300 employees, the vast majority of which are located in the US (with offices in Manhattan, Boston, and Baltimore) and a new R&D facility in Paris.\n\nIn 2017 Datadog acquired the Paris-based Logmatic.io, a platform-agnostic service for querying and visualizing logs to monitor and troubleshoot online services.\n\nAs of 2017, Datadog has raised five rounds of funding, totalling $147.9M. In 2010 Datadog launched with a seed round, with participation by NYC Seed, Contour Venture Partners, IA Ventures, Jerry Neumann and Alex Payne, among others. In 2012 it raised a $6.2M Series A round co-led by Index Ventures and RTP Ventures. In 2014 Datadog raised a $15M Series B round led by OpenView Venture Partners, followed by a $31M Series C round led by Index Ventures in 2015. Datadog opened 2016 with a $94.5M Series D round led by ICONIQ Capital, one of the largest funding rounds for a New York City company during that year.\n\nDatadog helps developers and operations teams see their full infrastructure – cloud, servers, apps, services, metrics, and more – all in one place. This includes real-time interactive dashboards that can be customized to a team’s specific needs, full-text search capabilities for metrics and events, sharing and discussion tools so teams can collaborate using the insights they surface, targeted alerts for critical issues, and API access to accommodate unique infrastructures.\n\nDatadog also integrates with various cloud, enterprise, and developer software tools out of the box, so established team workflows will be unchanged and uninterrupted when adopting Datadog’s service.\n\nDatadog was listed in Forbes’ Cloud 100 and was ranked in the top ten fastest growing companies in North America in Deloitte’s 2016 Fast 500 List. In both 2015 and 2016, Crain’s named Datadog to its list of the 100 Best Places to Work in New York City. Datadog was also listed on Wealthfront’s 2017 Career-Launching Companies List and Business Insider’s 51 enterprise startups to bet your career on in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1530291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1530291", "title": "Democracy in the Middle East", "text": "Democracy in the Middle East\n\nAccording to the Democracy Index 2016 study, Israel (#29 worldwide) is the only democracy in the Middle East, while Tunisia (#69 worldwide) is the only democracy in North Africa. The measure of the level of democracy in nations throughout the world published by Freedom House and various other freedom indices, the Middle Eastern and North African countries with the highest scores are Israel, Tunisia, Turkey, Lebanon, Morocco, and Kuwait. Countries that are occasionally classified as partly democratic are Egypt and Iraq. The remaining countries of the Middle East are categorized as authoritarian regimes, with the lowest scores held by Saudi Arabia and Yemen.\n\nFreedom House categorizes Israel and Tunisia as \"Free\", Lebanon, Turkey, Kuwait and Morocco \"Partly Free\", and the remaining states as \"Not Free\" (including Western Sahara, which is controlled by Morocco). Events of the \"Arab Spring\" such as the Tunisian Revolution may indicate a move towards democracy in some countries which may not be fully captured in the democracy index. In 2015, Tunisia became the first Arab country classified as free since the beginning of Lebanon's civil war 40 years ago. \nTheories are diverse on the subject. \"Revisionist theories\" argue that democracy is slightly incompatible with Middle Eastern values. On the other hand, \"post-colonial\" theories (such as those put forth by Edward Said) for the relative absence of liberal democracy in the Middle East are diverse, from the long history of imperial rule by the Ottoman Empire, Britain and France and the contemporary political and military intervention by the United States, all of which have been blamed for preferring authoritarian regimes because this simplifies the business environment, while enriching the governing elite and the companies of the imperial countries. Other explanations include the problem that most of the states in the region are rentier states, which experience the theorized resource curse.\n\nThis article follows sources that place Cyprus in Europe, not the Middle East.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, many of the empire's former territories fell under the rule of European countries under League of Nations mandates. Thus, European powers were instrumental in establishing the first independent governments that emerged from the Ottoman Empire. During the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union competed for allies in the region and the U.S. has been accused of supporting dictatorships contrary to its stated democratic principles. The 1957 Eisenhower Doctrine was the beginning of a policy of American democracy promotion in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), leading, for example, to American intervention on behalf of the democratically elected government in the 1958 Lebanon crisis.\n\nFollowing the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the U.S. war in Afghanistan and Iraq War were a significant turning point for the U.S.'s shift, from political rhetoric, to the real cause of democratisation in the region, as the invasions of those countries were partly for purposes of organising democratic governments.\n\nOpponents of the act have, however, criticised that democracy cannot be imposed from outside. The two countries have since had relatively successful elections, but have also experienced serious security and development problems.\n\nSome believe that democracy can be established \"only through force\" and the help of the United States. Writers such as Michele Dunne, when writing for the Carnegie Paper concurs with the rhetoric of the late Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin (at that time, referring to peace and terrorism) that the foreign policy position of the US should be to 'pursue peace as though there were no democratization, and pursue democratization as though there were no peace. In other words, the U.S. government should pursue reform and democratization as policy goals in the first instance without worrying excessively about tradeoffs with other goals.\" The U.S. pressure behind the calling of the 2006 Palestinian legislative election backfired, resulting in the democratically sound victory of Hamas, rather than the US supported Fatah. Drawing upon the ideas of Middle East scholar Nicola Pratt it can be argued that:\n\n…the outcome of democratization efforts is [in reality]…contingent upon the degree to which actors' chosen strategies contribute to either reproducing or challenging the relations of power between civil society and the state.\n\nHowever, recent academic critics have characterized intervention in the Middle East as a means towards engendering democracy a failure. The 2011 study Costs of War from Brown University's Watson Institute for International Studies concluded that democracy promotion has been flawed from the beginning in both Iraq and Afghanistan, with corruption rampant in both countries as the United States prepares to withdraw many of its combat troops. On a scale of democratization established by Transparency International, Iraq and Afghanistan are two of the worst-ranked countries in the world, surpassed in corruption by only Myanmar and Somalia.\n\nSociologist Amitai Etzioni has pointed out that the prerequisite sociological conditions for the establishment of liberal democracies were not present in Iraq and Afghanistan when the United States attempted to engage in nation-building.\n\nThere are several non-governmental organizations that publish and maintain indices of freedom in the world, according to their own various definitions of the term, and rank countries as being free, partly free, or unfree using various measures of freedom, including political rights, economic rights, freedom of the press and civil liberties.\n\nAn analysis on the level of constitution around the world is conducted every year by Freedom House. Freedom House analyses political rights (PR), civil liberties (CL) and overall regime status. PR and CL are rated from one to seven, with one being most free and seven being least free. Regimes are classed as either 'free, partly free or not free'.\n\nThe below table summarizes the findings of the 2010 - 2015 Freedom in the World report on the countries of the Middle East and North Africa.\nThere are a number of pro-democracy movements in the Middle East. A prominent figure in this movement is Saad Eddin Ibrahim who advocates and campaigns for democracy in Egypt and the wider region, working with the Ibn Khaldun Centre for Development Studies and serving on the Board of Advisors for the Project on Middle East Democracy.\n\nWhen asked about his thoughts regarding the current state of democracy in the region he said:\n\nThe Middle East Forum, a think tank based in Philadelphia, recently published their table for measurement of democracy within Middle Eastern states. Their contention is that little has changed, post-September 11, 2001, and if anything the \"War on Terror\" has enabled many regimes to stifle democratic progress. The results showed very little progress from 1999-2005. The report even states that this pattern may be counter-productive to US interests, with Islamism being the only viable opposition to regimes in many Middle Eastern countries. As an additional measure of US attitudes towards the issue of Middle Eastern democratization, on 14 December 2006, the US Secretary of state Condoleezza Rice stated that democracy in the Middle East was \"non-negotiable.\"\n\nMiddle East scholar Louise Fawcett notes how the United Nations Development Programme's \"Arab Human Development Report 2002\", drafted by Western-educated Arab intellectuals, is modelled \"on universal democratic principles.\" In addition, Fawcett argues that \"Constitutional democracy is viewed not only as an intrinsic good by the putative globalisers who drafted this Report; it is also an instrumental necessity if the region is to stop stagnating and begin to catch up with the rest of the world.\"\n\nThe level of democratic process varies widely from country to country. A few countries, such as Saudi Arabia, do not claim to be democracies; however, most of the larger states claim to be democracies, although this claim is in most cases disputed.\n\nA number of republics embracing Arab Socialism, such as Syria and Egypt, regularly hold elections, but critics assert that these are not full multi-party systems. Most importantly they do not allow citizens to choose between lots of different candidates for presidency election. The constitution of modern Egypt has always given the president a virtual monopoly over the decision making process, devoting 30 articles (15 percent of the whole constitution) to presidential prerogatives. According to the constitution, the Egyptian president's powers are equivalent to those of the prime minister in parliamentary systems and to the president of the French Fifth Republic. Yemen, Lebanon and the Palestinian Authority, while also partly accepting this ideology, are generally considered more democratic than other states that do so, but the power of institutions in the latter two are limited by the domination of Syria and Israel, respectively.\n\nAbsolute monarchy is common in the Middle East. Saudi Arabia and a few other kingdoms on the Arabian Peninsula are considered absolute monarchies. The endurance of authoritarian regimes in the Middle East is notable in comparison to the rest of the world. While such regimes have fallen throughout sub-Saharan Africa, for example, they have persisted in the Middle East. Yet Middle Eastern history also includes significant episodes of conflict between rulers and proponents of change.\n\nConstitutional monarchy is a form of government in which a monarch acts as head of state within the guidelines of a constitution, whether it be a written, uncodified, or blended constitution. This form of government differs from absolute monarchy in which an absolute monarch serves as the source of power in the state and is not legally bound by any constitution and has the powers to regulate his or her respective government.\n\nMost constitutional monarchies employ a parliamentary system in which the monarch may have strictly ceremonial duties or may have reserve powers, depending on the constitution. Under most modern constitutional monarchies there is also a prime minister who is the head of government and exercises effective political power. The Middle Eastern countries with Constitutional monarchies are generally considered democratic. For example: Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, and Bahrain are considered constitutional monarchies.\n\nThe Iranian Revolution of 1979 resulted in an electoral system (an Islamic Republic with a constitution), but the system has a limited democracy in practice. One of the main problems of Iran's system is the consolidation of too much power in the hands of the Supreme Leader who is elected by Assembly of Experts for life (unless the Assembly of Experts decides to remove him which has never happened). Another main problem is the closed loop in the electoral system, the elected Assembly of Experts elect the Supreme Leader of Iran, who appoints the members of the Guardian Council, who in turn vet the candidates for all elections including the elections for Assembly of Experts. However some elections in Iran, as the election of city councils satisfies free and democratic election criteria to some extent. In other countries, the ideology (usually out of power) has fostered both pro-democratic and anti-democratic sentiments. The Justice and Development Party is a moderate democratic Islamist party that has come to power in traditionally secular Turkey. Its moderate ideology has been compared to Christian Democracy in Europe. The United Iraqi Alliance, the winner of the recent elections in Iraq, is a coalition including many religious parties.\n\nHistorically Iranians were ruled by an absolute monarchy for several thousand years, at least since the time of the Achaemenid Empire (550 B.C.E.) until the Constitutional Revolution in the early 20th century. The Constitutional Revolution in 1906 replaced the absolute monarchy with a constitutional monarchy. The constitution went under several revisions during the following decades. During World War II Iran stayed neutral but in 1941 the Allies (the USSR and Great Britain) invaded Iran and replaced the Iran's Shah Reza Pahlavi (who was perceived as being pro-German) with his son Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to protect their access to Iranian oil, and to secure routes to ship western military aid to the Soviet Union. Iran's parliamentary government led by Prime Minister Mohammed Mosaddeq was toppled in a 1953 coup d'état by royalist forces supported and funded by CIA and MI6 after Mohammed Mosaddeq nationalized Iranian oil. Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi became the preeminent leader in Iran, and instated Fazlollah Zahedi from the military as the new Prime Minister. United States has considered the Shah as a close ally and Iran as its main base in the Middle East. The Shah also tried to modernize Iran's economy and westernize Iran's culture. These and other policies contributed to alienating nationalists, leftists, and religious groups.\n\nThe monarchy was overthrown in 1979 by the Iranian Revolution. In the same year a referendum was held by Ruhollah Khomeini, that asked whether there should be an 'Islamic Republic' or not. The 1979 referendum (in favor of an Islamic Republic) got 98% support of those who voted. The constitution was modeled on the 1958 constitution of the French Fifth Republic by the Assembly of Experts for Constitution (who were elected by direct popular vote) and Khomeini made himself the new Supreme Leader of Iran. The constitution received above 99% support in another 1979 referendum. After Khomeini's death, the Assembly of Experts (which is made of Islamic scholars elected by direct vote) appointed Ali Khamenei as the new Supreme Leader. The constitution was also amended through a referendum in 1989 with 97% support a few months before Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini died increasing the powers of Supreme Leader. Iran holds regular national elections by universal suffrage for all citizens (regardless of race, religion, or sex, who are of voting age) for electing the President, members of Parliament, Assembly of Experts, City and Village Councils where political parties support candidates.\n\nThe current political system in Iran was designed to allow Iranians to decide their future by themselves without being oppressed by authorities, but in practice only allows a limited democracy. One of the main problems of Iran's system is the consolidation of too much power in the hands of the Supreme Leader who is elected by the Assembly of Experts for life (unless the Assembly of Experts decides to remove him, which has never happened). The power of the Supreme Leader under Iran's constitution is almost unlimited and unrestricted in practice. This combined with the view that he is the representative of God held by some religious groups, being the head of the security and armed forces, and controlling the official state media (the radio and television are restricted to state radio and television) makes him immune from any kind of criticism and unchallengeable. Critics of the system or the Supreme Leader are punished severely. Critical newspapers and political parties are closed, social and political activists like writers, journalists, human right activists, university students, union leaders, lawyers, and politicians are jailed for unreasonably long periods for making simple criticism against the Supreme Leader, the Islamic Republic system, Islam and Shia doctrines, the government, and other officials. They have been even threatened by death sentence (though all such verdict in recent years have been dropped in higher courts in recent years) and some have been assassinated by the Ministry of Intelligence and militias in the past (no such case has been reported in recent years).\n\nAnother main problem is the closed loop in the electoral system, the elected Assembly of Experts elects the Supreme Leader, so in theory he is elected indirectly by popular vote, but in practice the system does not satisfy the criteria for a free election since the Supreme Leader appoints the members of the Guardian Council who in turn vet the candidates for all elections including the elections for Assembly of Experts. This loop limits the possible candidates to those agreeing with the views held by Supreme Leader and he has the final say over all important issues.\n\nAlso the fourth unchangeable article of constitution states that all other articles of the constitution and all other laws are void if they violate Islamic rules, and the Guardian Council is given the duty of interpreting the constitution and verifying that all laws passed the parliament are not against Islamic laws. Many articles of constitution about political freedoms and minority rights (e.g. education in mother language for language minorities) have not been applied at all.\n\nOther problems include the issues with the rights of racial and religious minorities, influence and involvement of armed forces specially the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Basij in political activities, widespread corruption in the ruling elite, problems with security forces like police and militias like Ansar-e Hezbollah, and corruption in Judiciary.\n\nOne should note that against all short-comings of the current system as a democracy mentioned above some recent polls in Iran by a number of respected Western polling organizations show that a considerable majority of Iranians support the system including and the religious institutions and trust it about the elections (even the disputed presidential elections in 2009). Some Iranians and political activists dispute the results of these polls arguing that the results of these polls cannot be trusted because people fear to express their real opinion and the limitations on the follow of information allows the state to control the opinion of people living in more traditional parts of the country. Some of these polling organizations have responded to these claims and defended their results as correctly showing the current opinion of Iranians. The polls also show a divide between the population living in large modern cities like Tehran and people living in other more traditional and conservative parts of the country like rural areas and smaller cities.\n\nLebanon has traditionally enjoyed a confessional democratic system. The Lebanese constitution, doctored in 1926, was based on the French constitution and guaranteed liberty and equality for all its citizens. A large number of political parties with very different ideologies, are active in Lebanon, but most of them form political alliances with other groups of similar interests. Even though certain high-profile positions in the government and the seats in the parliament are reserved for specified sects, intense competition is usually expected of political parties and candidates.\n\nIn January 2015, the Economist Intelligence Unit, released a report stating that Lebanon ranked the 2nd in Middle East and 98th out of 167 countries worldwide for Democracy Index 2014, which ranks countries according to election processes, pluralism, government functions, political participation, political cultures and fundamental freedoms.\n\nIsrael is a parliamentary democracy represented by a very large number of parties, with universal suffrage for all citizens, regardless of race, religion, sex, or sexual orientation, who are of voting age.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority operates presidential and parliamentary elections with universal suffrage for all citizens, regardless of race, religion, or sex, who are of voting age. However, no national elections have been held since the Fatah–Hamas conflict erupted into violence in 2006.\n\nThe protests, uprisings and revolutions in the Middle East and North Africa, beginning on 18 December 2010, brought about the overthrow of the Tunisian and Egyptian governments. Libya was brought into a 6-month civil war which brought about the end of Gaddafi's 41-year rule. Bahrain and Yemen are experiencing uprisings. The uprising in Syria led to full-scale civil war. Tunisia and Egypt have held elections that were considered fair by observers. Mohamed Morsi was sworn in as Egypt's first president to gain power through an election on 30 June 2012; however, after protests against him in June 2013, as well as a 48-hour deadline by the Egyptian Armed Forces to respond to the protesters' demands that he did not comply with, Morsi was removed from office in July 2013. Morsi's Defence Minister, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who served as a general in the Egyptian Armed Forces at the time, was responsible for announcing the overthrow on state television. Many other countries in the region are also calling for democracy and freedom, including: Algeria, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Djibouti, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Oman, Yemen, Kuwait, Mauritania, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Turkey. Research confirms that (in general) people in Islamic societies support democracy.\n\nSecularism in the Middle East was pioneered by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, who, though he himself had some authoritarian tendencies, helped establish the first modern Middle Eastern secular democracy in Turkey. Arab Socialism has also fostered secularism, though sometimes in what has been seen as a less democratic context. Secularism is not the same as freedom of religion, and secular governments have at times denied the rights of Islamists and other religious parties. A trend of a more liberal secularism supporting broader freedom of religion has developed recently in Turkey, while some Arab Socialist states have moved away from secularism to some extent, increasingly embracing religion, though many say without really increasing the rights of religious parties. Lebanon also is a secular state.\n\nThe reasons for the lack of democratization in the Middle East are outlined by analysts such as Albrecht Schnabel, who says that a strong civil society is required to produce leaders and mobilize the public around democratic duties, but in order for such a civil society to flourish, a democratic environment and process allowing freedom of expression and order is required in the first place. This theory therefore supports the intervention of outside countries, such as the U.S., in establishing democracy. \"If domestic capacities are lacking, external support may be required. Externally supported creation of fragile, yet somewhat functioning institutions is meant to trigger the momentum needed to encourage the evolution of a functioning civil society. The latter will, after a few years of consolidation and post-conflict stability, produce the first wholly internally crafted government. At that time, external involvement, if still provided at that point, can cede.\" Schnabel argues that democratization in the Middle East must come from both below and above, given that pressure from below will be pointless if the political leadership is opposed to reform, while top-down reform (which has been the norm in the Middle East) is not a fruitful endeavor if the political culture in society is not developed.\n\nOther analysts draw different conclusions. Drawing from the work of Alexis de Tocqueville and Robert Putnam, these researchers suggest that independent, nongovernmental associations help foster a participatory form of governance. They cite the lack of horizontal voluntary association as a reason for the persistence of authoritarianism in the region. Other analysts believe that the lack of a market-driven economy in many Middle Eastern countries undermines the capacity to build the kind of individual autonomy and power that helps promote democracy.\n\nTherefore, the relationship of the state to civil society is one of the most important indicators of the chances of democracy evolving in a particular country. Poverty, inequality, and low literacy rates also compromise people's commitment to democratic reforms since survival becomes a higher priority. Some analysts point to MENA's saturation with Islam as an explanation for the region's failure to democratize.\n\nOther analysts believe that the failure of democratization results from the power of the state. Inspired by Skopcol's work on revolution, Belin argues that democratic transition can only be carried out when the state's coercive apparatus lacks the will or capacity to crush opponents. Authoritarianism has been exceptionally robust in the MENA region because many of the states have proven willing and able to crush reform initiatives. Moreover, almost every Arab state has been directly involved in some form of international conflict over the past decades. Research suggests that conflict involvement has a direct influence on the country's prospects for democratization.\n\nHowever, critics of these theories observe that some countries which experience many of these democracy-inhibiting factors are successful in their quest for democratization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13524632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13524632", "title": "Demographics of Visoko", "text": "Demographics of Visoko\n\nCurrently, town has a population an estimated at 17,000 residents, with municipality numbering 40,276 residents, of which there is 96% Bosniaks, 2% Serbs, 1% Croats and 1% other. With 173 residents per square kilometer it is one of densely populated area in Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nAbsolute ethnic majority\n\nRelative ethnic majority\n\n"}
{"id": "48611021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48611021", "title": "Disability in Brazil", "text": "Disability in Brazil\n\nThere are an estimated 16 million people with disabilities in Brazil. Although 9 million of these are of working age, only 1 million are in the labor force.\n\nBrazil is a party to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, having signed the treaty on 30 March 2007 and ratified it on 1 August 2008. Brazil's Law 7853 criminalizes discrimination based on disability, and other legal protections also exist.\n\nAt least five major associations work to enable the participation of Brazilians with disabilities in sport.\n"}
{"id": "25557935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25557935", "title": "EMO (trade show)", "text": "EMO (trade show)\n\nEMO is a European trade show for the manufacturing industries. It occurs every odd-numbered year, with a cycle that finds it at the Hanover Fairground in Hanover, Germany for 2 shows, then the Fiera Milano exhibition center in Milan, Italy for 1 show.\n\nThe name \"EMO\" came from the name Exposition Mondiale de la Machine-Outil (Machine Tool World Exposition), and the scope of the content still reflects the machine tool heritage, although it now also extends beyond it. The show covers the spectrum of metalworking technologies, such as machine tools for milling, turning, and forming; manufacturing systems; precision measuring tools; automated materials handling; computer technology; industrial electronics; and accessories. \n\nEMO is run by CECIMO, the European Association of the Machine Tool Industries (Comité européen de coopération des industries de la machine-outil) (www.cecimo.eu). The Verein Deutscher Werkzeugmaschinenfabriken (German Machine Tool Builders’ Association), or VDW, is responsible for the organization of the trade show when in Hanover, while UCIMU, the Association of Italian Manufacturers of Machine Tools, Robots, Automation Systems and ancillary products (NC, tools, components, accessories) manages the Milan show.\n\nAn agreement between the Association for Manufacturing Technology (AMT), which organizes the US-based International Manufacturing Technology Show (IMTS) and CECIMO coordinates the IMTS and the EMO such that every even-numbered year the IMTS is held in Chicago, and every odd-numbered year the EMO is held in Europe.\n\nEMO began as the EEMO (Exposition européenne de machines-outils, European machine tools exhibition). The first EEMO was held in 1951. The name changed in 1975 to EMO (Exposition Mondiale de la Machine-Outil). Nowadays its scope extends beyond machine tools, and the acronym expansion is not used by CECIMO anymore. \n\n"}
{"id": "28187349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28187349", "title": "Edward Porta", "text": "Edward Porta\n\nEdward Porta (born November 13, 1954) was an Argentinian textile trader based in the area of Spartanburg, South Carolina. He pleaded guilty to a federal charge of conspiracy to defraud the U.S. Department of Agriculture of more than $400,000. In February 2008, Porta escaped from the minimum security camp at the U.S. Penitentiary in Lee County, Virginia and was profiled on \"America's Most Wanted\".\n\nPorta was married and divorced four times, and has two children. He has five siblings who he claims he did not have contact with for 40 years, according to police.\n\nPorta began his career working for his father's textile business. Police stated that he plotted to take advantage of federal programs such as the Export Credit Guarantee Program, intended by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to assist small U.S. and foreign exporters of cotton to compete against large corporations. As president of Porta Textiles and Porta Technologies, he acted as both the importer and the exporter, according to the police. Along with money he defrauded from the government, police said that Porta also swindled banks and other businesses of over $2 million. After his arrest, Porta said that he moved around various parts of the United States and Latin America during his life.\n\nPorta pleaded guilty on December 20, 2005 to the charge of conspiracy to defraud the U.S. Department of Agriculture in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North Carolina. On May 2, 2007, the court in Asheville, North Carolina sentenced Porta to 38 months at the U.S. Penitentiary in Lee County, Virginia. He was ordered to pay $2.9 million restitution.\n\nPorta was assigned federal inmate register number 18862-058. Authorities believe Porta had walked away from the minimum security camp at the penitentiary when he turned up missing during a 4 p.m. count on February 25, 2008. He had been placed in the low security area and was given a significant amount of freedom because he had been convicted of a business-related white-collar crime. He was scheduled to have been released on April 15, 2010. Porta was profiled on \"America's Most Wanted\".\n\nPorta was captured on May 28th, 2016 at a motel near Seattle Tacoma International airport after being featured on 'Washington's Most Wanted'\n\n"}
{"id": "36851108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36851108", "title": "Eloyi people", "text": "Eloyi people\n\nThe Eloyi (also called Afao, Afo, Afu, Aho, Epe, Keffi) are an ethnic group of central Nigeria.\nAbout 100,000 people identify themselves as Eloyi. They are related to the Idoma ethnic group.\n\nAs of 2000, about 25,000 people in the Awe and Nasarawa Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Nasarawa State and the Otukpo LGA of Benue State were reported to speak the Eloyi language, in the Idomoid branch of the Benue-Congo group.\nMany use Hausa as their second or primary language. \n\nTraditionally, most of the Eloyi lived in a range of rocky hills in what today is Nasarawa State.\nThey revolted against the British in 1918 and were forced to leave their homeland. \nToday they are scattered in different parts of Nasarawa and Benue states, although some have moved back to the original hills. \nThe British divided the Eloyi into ten village areas in 1932, appointing a head for each village, but these village heads were not recognized by the Eloyi.\n\nThe Eloyi are one of the more economically advanced of the Benue Valley tribes. In the hills they grow guinea corn, cotton, yams, and tobacco.\nThey practice in weaving and dying, producing cloth that is much in demand and can be traded.\nThe Eloyi villages in the hills are made up of round huts with conical thatched roofs grouped around a central courtyard.\nIn the plains the Eloyi are mostly farmers, selling dried fish and palm oil for cash.\nThe plains Eloyi build large houses within compounds and fortify their villages.\n\nThe village is the largest political unit, independent of its neighbors. A chief is assisted by a council of elders in administering the village and resolving disputes.\nThe \"gado\" is the father of the village, the authority on customs and law, in charge of planting and harvest rites.\nMost Eloyi practice their traditional beliefs, which center on the god Owo, who is symbolized by a white silk cotton tree or a fig tree.\nThey worship their ancestors, whose spirits are thought to live on and to require food and care.\nReligious rites include masked impersonation of ancestors, witchcraft, magic, and divination with strings.\nA small number of Eloyi have adopted the Muslim religion.\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "24413919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24413919", "title": "Freemasonry in Barbados", "text": "Freemasonry in Barbados\n\nFreemasonry in Barbados is one of the oldest established organisations in the country. Regular Freemasonry is controlled from London and Edinburgh by the United Grand Lodge of England (UGLE) and the Grand Lodge of Scotland through local Provincial Grand Lodges. More recently Prince Hall Freemasonry has also been established on the island.\n\nAs a fraternal organisation, Freemasonry was introduced to the island in 1740 by Alexander Irvine (c. 1694-1743). The first lodge formed was the St. Michael's Lodge No 94 (or No 186). However, this lodge ceased working in the nineteenth century. Following the closure of this lodge, the Albion Lodge No 196 (UGLE) was formed in 1790, and now remains the longest established lodge in Barbados.\n\nThe St. Michael's churchyard which contains a vault where Irvine is entombed has continued to be used by the Barbadian Masonic community.\n\nThe District Grand Lodge of Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean is the local masonic authority under the English Grand Lodge. It is responsible in Barbados for six Craft lodges, and (through its associated Holy Royal Arch authority) three Royal Arch chapters. Albion Lodge No 196 (see above) is the oldest. Two lodges meet at Bridgetown, and the other four meet at Belleville. One of the lodges has a particular focus on masonic research. The District Grand Lodge also controls Freemasonry in eight other Caribbean nations.\n\nThe District Grand Lodge of Barbados is the local masonic authority under the Scottish Grand Lodge. It is responsible for six Craft lodges, all of which meet in Bridgetown. The former Governor-General of Barbados, Sir Elliott Belgrave is a member and former District Grand Master.\n\nThe Prince Hall Grand Lodge of the Caribbean is the newest masonic authority on Barbados. In 1960 a Barbadian educator, Mr G. Halley Marville, was introduced to Prince Hall Freemasonry in California, whilst studying in the United States of America. This led eventually to the consecration of the first Prince Hall lodge in Barbados in 1965, under the authority of the Prince Hall Grand Lodge of the State of New York. An autonomous Grand Lodge was formed on 24 April 1993, and now controls lodges throughout the Caribbean, from its headquarters in Barbados. It has twenty lodges across the region, of which five are in Barbados.\n"}
{"id": "41178193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41178193", "title": "French immigration to Jamaica", "text": "French immigration to Jamaica\n\nFrench immigration to Jamaica began in 1791 when problems broke out in Saint Domingue, the French part of the island of Hispaniola, equivalent of modern Haiti. Thousands of French people fled from Saint Domingue and arrived in Jamaica.\n\nIn 1694, Jamaica came under attack by the French, led by Admiral Jean-Baptiste du Casse. The French far outnumbered their opponents, but were eventually turned back, after losing hundreds of men in the conflict; they were successful in damaging or destroying many sugar estates and plantations on Jamaica, however.\n\n"}
{"id": "18570470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18570470", "title": "Gav-Paradhi", "text": "Gav-Paradhi\n\nThe Gav-Paradhi are one of the Paradhi Tribes of India. Unlike the other Paradhi tribes they were not classed as a 'Criminal Tribe' by the British Raj government, under Criminal Tribes Act 1871. This was because unlike the other Paradhi tribes like the Phase Pardhi, the Gav-Paradhi had become settled agriculturalists.\n\nThe Gav-Paradhi live primarily in the Amravati District.\n"}
{"id": "35757193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35757193", "title": "Gender policing", "text": "Gender policing\n\nGender policing is the imposition or enforcement of normative gender expressions on an individual who is perceived as not adequately performing, through appearance or behavior, the sex that was assigned to them at birth (see gender performativity). Gender policing serves to devalue or delegitimize expressions that deviate from normative conceptions of gender, thus reinforcing the gender binary. According to Judith Butler, rejection of individuals who are non-normatively gendered is a component of creating one's own gender identity. Gender mainstreaming is a public policy concept, whereas gender policing is a more general social phenomenon.\n\nIt is common for normative gender performances of gender to be encouraged and rewarded, while non-normative performances are discouraged through punishment or generally negative reactions. Policing of non-normative performances ranges in intensity from relatively minor discouraging comments to brutal acts of violence. Tactics of gender policing also vary widely, depending in part on the perceived gender of the individual target. \n\nGender policing aims to keep gender roles rigid and aligned according to the gender binary. The gender binary is the idea that gender exists as the opposition between man and woman. Heteronormativity, as an institution, is an extension of this belief that posits that gender and sexuality are expressions of biology. This functionalism of biology asserts that male and female genitalia only serve the purpose of procreation, which creates gender roles that manifest from a perceived innate desire, giving sexuality a specific purpose within society.\n\nGayle Rubin's writing in \"The Traffic in Women\" links the creation of the gender binary to the subordination of women in western society. Rubin studied the works of Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, and Levi Strauss to gain a better understanding of the creation of the \"sex/gender system\". Rubin found that \"woman\" was a role created in opposition to \"man\" and served the purpose of building power, trade relationships, and mutual aid through the exchange of women by marriage. These Kinship systems necessitated rules, which had to be policed to ensure their continued survival. These rules crystalized into heteronormativity, culturally instilling the rules for accepted sexuality in western society.\n\nThe gender binary in western society was formalized from the interpretations of men and women during the hunter-gatherer ages. During this Mesolithic or Middle Stone Age in North-West Europe, hunting and gathering food was a prominent survival strategy. Early interpretations of these survival techniques is one of the main reasons for the current idea of the gender binary within western society. In his review of the ethnography of gathering shellfish, Clive Bonsall incorrectly presumed that women and children were primarily gatherers and men were the hunters do to their stronger skill set. These assumptions of past societies shaped the current structure of western society into the beliefs that men are the providers and women are the supporters. Additionally in the idea of heterosexual marriage as the societal norm came from the analysis of the interactions between different Mesolithic populations.\n\nAnother mentality that strengthens the idea of binary gender within western society is the warrior-breeder relationship. In this mentality, masculinity is characterized by the traits of the model warrior: strong and fearless, yet disposable. Meanwhile, femininity and womanhood revolve around reproduction. In this relationship, there are only two types of people; therefore, two genders. This dichotomy is valued because it keeps society safe in times of war. The warriors fight and protect while the breeders replace the fallen warriors.\n\nFrom the works of LGB activism during the late 1980’s to 1990’s, the queer theory was created along with the influential work of Foucault and Sedgewick. The queer theory creates a space outside the gender binary. This theory deconstructs and discredits the idea of a gender binary. Disregarding the gender binary caused fears within the western society, ultimately leading to gender policing in order to maintain the idea of binary gender.\n\nMan and woman as categories can not exist without the other to enforce what they are and are not. The same can be said of heterosexuality and homosexuality. These categories are created out of their opposition, forming power dynamics. Michel Foucault referred to this creation of identities, through creating discourse surrounding the ideal, as reverse discourse. This antagonistic relationship between identities is the basis for gender policing. Deviation from normative expression, of either gender or sexuality, is often met with varying degrees violence.\n\nPatriarchal societies perpetuate masculine dominance in all aspects of life. Patriarchy privileges masculine thought and expression creating a gender hierarchy where women and the feminine are subordinated. The concept of hegemonic masculinity describes a hierarchy even within masculinity itself. Hegemonic masculinity allows for the terms and expression of masculinity to be renegotiated according to time, culture, and class status, allowing for the rationalization of its continued dominance.\n\nSociologist, Raewyn Connell created the theory of hegemonic masculinity in order to explain the relationships between men and women and between the class of men within a patriarchal system. This theory is based on Antonio Gramsci’s concept of hegemony –– conformity or subordination of one group which creates class-based domination. Connell’s theory explains the ways in which ideal or normalized masculine traits have the highest values in western society. These masculine attributes include wealth, control over resources, fertility, attractiveness, heterosexuality, physical strength, and emotional detachment. Demetrakis Z. Demetriou further divided hegemonic masculinity into two types: external and internal. External hegemonic masculinity refers to the subordination of women under men. Internal hegemonic masculinity is the spectrum of masculinity seen within men. This spectrum is defined by the amount of power and masculinity a man holds. The patriarchy needs hegemonic masculinity in order to maintain power. In order to keep this power, men must be policed and women must me dominated. Since the ideal form of masculinity is seen by patriarchal power, men that fit in this norm are seen as what a human should embody. \n\nThe gender hierarchy created by patriarchy and hegemonic masculinity creates competition for dominance resulting in the policing of gender and sexuality. Policing of masculinity in a heteronormative society reinforces the gender binary. Individuals seeking to reaffirm their position in a masculine hierarchy seek out and police individuals performing inadequately. Those performing inadequately must either conform to the accepted forms of gender and sexual expression or risk violence and ostracism.\n\nFathers are more likely than mothers to enforce gender boundaries, or police the gendered expressions of their children. Second, both fathers and mothers enforce gender boundaries more frequently with sons than with daughters. Research on the topic of parental gender policing has shown that female children who display traditionally masculine traits or behaviors receive more social and parental acceptance than male children who exhibit traditionally feminine tendencies. Many scholars on the subject argue that this is due to the greater value assigned to \"masculine\" traits or behaviors compared to \"feminine\" ones, and/or beliefs that \"tomboyism\" is temporary. At least one study indicates that parents across various social locations celebrate and encourage their preschool age daughters to engage in gender nonconformity, such as wearing sports-themed clothing and participating in traditionally male activities. However, other research indicates that in part due to peer and parental pressures, \"tomboys\", or female children with \"masculine\" traits or behavioral tendencies, frequently either abandon these tendencies in adolescence, or adopt a more feminine performance but retain many masculine skills and traits. Pressures to conform to gender norms increase with age, and often manifest in these children being \"instructed or shamed to conform to traditional femininity – in dress, appearance, posture, manner, interests, and dating.\"\n\nFields of knowledge that claim to be universal are still created within societal frameworks that have their own rules and biases. A patriarchal society gives privilege to masculine thought and excludes other points of view and histories. All discourse created in a patriarchal society can be said to acquiesce to hegemonic masculinity.\n\nMichel Foucault viewed Psychoanalysis as a secular confession concerned with finding our natural sexual selves. The problem, Foucault argued, is that sexuality is cultural and any narrative created around it gives the subject the illusion of identity rather than experience. Psychoanalysis conducted in a hetero-normative society would view any deviation as a failing to achieve that ideal. Rather than someone being seen as performing an act, they would be seen as embodying that which society deemed inadequate. \n\nGayle Rubin wrote about Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytic theory in \"The Traffic In Women\". Rubin states that Jacques Lacan's analysis of Freud views the Oedipus complex as the crisis experienced by a child when internalizing kinship rules. The child becomes aware of the sex/gender system and organizes itself accordingly. Neurosis is seen as having an understanding of this system yet failing to adapt to it. Lacan's separation of the Phallus from the physical penis elucidates societies privileging of the masculine and gender's separation from biology. In Rubin's view psychiatry further policed accepted gender and sexual expression by deeming non normative behavior as mentally and emotionally stunted. Rubin also saw that this system of internalizing norms privileged heterosexual masculinity while outlining the psychic oppression society inflicts on women and femininity.\n\nGender policing affects different social identifications in different ways. Along with gender, characteristic attributes such as race, gender identity, class, sexual orientation, age, religion, creed, and disability interact with each other and are affected differently by gender policing. The effect of intersection of these social categories are studied in intersectionality theory. Understanding intersectionality within gender policing can be done by tracing back and analyzing the relation between race and gender in history. Race and gender over time produced hierarchies within themselves. Similar to the way the classification of \"man\" cannot exist without \"woman\", \"white\" people cannot exist without \"black\" people. Race as a classification arose from European capitalist colonialism. European colonists deemed those who weren't \"white\", primitive and deserving of domination and \"civilizing\". Global colonialism by European capitalists imposed European ways of knowing and being on the peoples they colonized. This included a racialized and patriarchal conception of gender. The view of colonized peoples as primitive created a distinction between \"white\" (human) and \"black\" (property or inhuman). The view of \"black\" as other than human excluded \"black\" people from classifications of gender. In western society, being \"white\" and middle class continue to inform gender norms, leaving \"non-white\" people unable to perform accepted femininity or masculinity.\n\nIn modern day times, intersectionality now touches upon various other forms of human characterizations, affecting people in countless different ways. How a white transgender woman may experience gender policing is going to differ greatly from how an asian heterosexual woman might (etc). \n\nAn individual's expression of gender is often first policed by their parent(s), as well as other elder authorities such as teachers and day care providers, at a very young age. Gender policing is part of the process of \"gendering\" children, or socializing them in a way considered conventionally appropriate to their assigned sex. Once children are taught gender norms and experience their enforcement, they are likely to begin policing others – both their peers and their elders.\n\nGender policing begins with gender enforcing from parents teaching their children what is \"masculine\" and what is \"feminine\" in the traditional sense of these terms. These traditional ideas of gender are reinforced through practices such as referring to children as \"boys\" and \"girls\" which \"makes sex/ gender the central component of how kids think of themselves, understand their social group, and view themselves through their parents’ eyes.\" As Jane Ward, professor of Gender and Sexuality Studies at University of California, Riverside, writes in her chapter of the book \"Chasing Rainbows: Exploring Gender Fluid Parenting Practices\", even parents who hope to redefine \"boyhood\" or \"girlhood\" (such as through allowing a \"tomboy\" daughter, or dressing a son in dresses, for example), still reinforce the concept of gender as a binary which is biologically determined. The gender binary is already enforced in obvious places, such as in the segregation of toys in stores, for example.\n\nEthnographic research in preschools has also contributed to the body of knowledge related to gender policing. This research has suggested that teachers give their students gendered instructions about what to do with their bodies. Across several schools, teachers gave boys explicit bodily instructions more frequently than girls, indicating that boys' bodies are policed more often than girls'. However, this may be because teachers were more forceful with their instructions to girls, who were also usually quicker to follow instructions, thus teachers did not need to repeat themselves as often. Teachers were also more likely to direct boys to cease behaviors (e.g. running, throwing objects), whereas they were more apt to instruct girls to alter them. For example, girls were given directive bodily instructions such as \"talk to her, don't yell, sit here, pick that up, be careful, be gentle, give it to me, put it down there.\" As a result, a wider range of potential activities is available to boys than girls, because although they are dissuaded from some, they are not directed to engage in specific activities as often as girls are. According to Martin, the scholar and sociologist who conducted this research, \"Gendering of the body in childhood is the foundation on which further gendering of the body occurs throughout the life course. The gendering of children's bodies makes gender differences feel and appear natural, which allows for such bodily differences to emerge throughout the life course.\"\n\nRelatively recent efforts have been made to limit gender policing, particularly in childhood. Sweden's reformation of their school system in 1962 resulted in a new curriculum which included objectives to limit gender policing in early education. Within this new curriculum it was determined that \"Pre-schools should work to counteract traditional gender and gender roles. Girls and boys in pre-schools should have the same opportunities to try and develop their abilities and interests without being limited by stereotyped gender roles.\" These preschools, elementary, and secondary schools aim to reduce the gender policing placed onto children, but through doing this must show how teachers and other pedagogical adults may accidentally reinforce gender stereotypes. Tools teachers use to combat this include practices such as keeping journals and videotaping classroom interactions (a practice proposed by Susanne Rithander). A general pedagogical practice in these Swedish schools in called \"compensatory pedagogy\", which plays off the idea that, per traditional gender roles, boys are encouraged to maintain autonomy while girls are encouraged to maintain closeness with others. \"Compensatory pedagogy\" challenges these traditional gender roles by encouraging girls to maintain autonomy and boys to build closeness with others.\n\nSome parents have attempted to limit gender policing through their parenting styles, as is the case with Storm's parents, who chose no to gender their child but instead to wait until their child could decide for his/herself. Unlike the relative success so far of Swedish schools in limiting gender policing, individual efforts by Kathy and David, Storm's parents, faced huge media backlash. In the chapter titled \"Get Your Gender Binary Off My Childhood!: Towards a Movement for Childrenʹs Gender Self-Determination\", Ward shows how Storm's parents were often called deceitful and manipulative, as Ward puts it, \"For not revealing what they knew about Storm’s genitals, Kathy and David were accused of hiding Storm’s very selfhood.\" \n\nAdolescence is a developmental stage in which peer groups are especially important, and peer relationships take primacy over familial relationships. It is also a stage during which gender policing amongst peers becomes increasingly common. Adolescents have already been introduced, during childhood, to normative gender expressions and social expectations therein by elders. These expectations are then reinforced during adolescence, largely by peers gender policing one another. In this (and every) stage of development, gender policing is especially prevalent in explicitly gendered environments, such as bathrooms, locker rooms, and sports teams.\n\n\"Dude, You're a Fag\", a book by CJ Pascoe, examines masculinity and gender policing in high schools through ethnographic research. Pascoe largely focuses on high school boys' use of the fag epithet to establish their own masculinity by questioning or challenging others'. In this context, the use of the fag epithet is a form of gender policing, frequently applied to boys who lack heterosexual prowess or are deemed inadequately masculine or strong. According to Pascoe, \"[the fag identity] is fluid enough that boys police their behaviors out of fear of having the fag identity permanently adhere and definitive enough so that boys recognize a fag behavior and strive to avoid it\".\n\nA study of male students of a co-educational, Catholic high school demonstrates insights from adolescent males themselves in regard to gender policing. This study highlights the gender policing of males by each other through exploring the types of bullying being practiced. Forms of bullying (and gender policing) come from accusations of males being homosexual. One participant in the study explains that he was bullied for dancing ballet and described his bullying as \"Just a lot to do with being a woman\", thus showing an association of specific activities with a specific gender (and that deviance from typical gender roles proves a perceived grounds for bullying). Through the practice of conducting interviews, the study briefly explores an observed policing of male behavior by females. One interviewee \"appears to be drawing attention to the different norms for governing the conduct of girls who police boys’ bullying practices through a condemnation of violent behaviors\". Interviewees also draw attention to the confirmation and reinforcement of attitudes and practices considered \"masculine\" within males. In addition, these \"masculine\" identifiers are further enforced through female interaction and confirmation. In conducting these interviews, it is also found how adolescents view the stereotypical concept of masculinity as a concept which is ingrained early on in their lives and “passed on from their fathers\".\n\nDuring adulthood, gender policing generally becomes more subtle. However, for an individual whose gender is perceived as ambiguous, blatant forms still exist. These range from curious inquiries by children (e.g. \"Are you a boy or a girl?\") to gender policing in bathrooms (discussed in the following section). People who are gender-normative in appearance experience primarily behavioral gender policing, such as reminders to act in a more (or less) feminine or masculine manner. Men are more often dissuaded and shamed for feminine behavior than women are for masculine behavior. It is theorized that this is due, at least in part, to the higher societal value of masculinity.\n\nGender policing has been reinforced in adults for many years. As Angela Y. Davis points out, early women's prisons relied on gender policing as a means of reformation. The first women's reformatory in the U.S. opened in Indiana and included areas designed as kitchens, living rooms, and nurseries. The idea was to train women about domesticity through activities such as cooking, sewing, and cleaning.\n\nSex testing and verification in sports and athletics shows gender policing as a practice still relevant to many countries and athletic organizations in recent history. In the case of the nineteen-year-old Missouri runner Helen Stephens in the 1936 Berlin Olympics, who finished first place in the 100-meter race, many questioned her sex because they could not fathom a the concept of a woman running so quickly. Sex testing and verification has existed throughout human history, even being traced back to practices in ancient Greek contests. Within these Greek traditions, women were deterred from participation and even spectatorship at times. In the examples of both Greek practices and the story of Helen Stephens of Missouri, it can be seen how women are often more likely to be subject to sex verification processes and accusations of deceit (i.e. women are often accused of actually being men disguised as women; men are not often accused of being women disguised as men).\n\nThe severity of gender policing is often proportional to the extremity of non-normativity. For example, transgender individuals are likely to be victims of the most extreme and violent forms of gender policing. Research regarding conformity pressures and gender resistance among transfeminine individuals (those who are assigned the male sex at birth but identify as more feminine than masculine) indicates that these persons experienced \"intense and pervasive\" pressures to conform to traditional masculinity, and feared exposure of their gender identity would result in physical danger or loss of legal, economic, or social standing. Thus, transgender individuals must often choose between self-preservation and expressing their self-identified gender.\n\nGender policing is especially prevalent in bathrooms due to the increased salience of gender in explicitly gendered environments (and the forced binary of \"men\" and \"women\"). While this issue is frequently encountered by transgender and genderqueer individuals, to a lesser extent, it is also experienced by persons with androgynous or gender ambiguous appearances. For individuals with non-normative gender identities, the choice of which bathroom to use is often laden with \"anxiety, ambivalence, and anticipated harassment.\" It is not uncommon for gender-normative people to alert security of the presence of transgender (or androgynous) individuals in a bathroom, regardless of whether the bathroom they are using conforms to their sex or to their gender identity. According to Jack Halberstam, the main distinction between gender policing in the women's room and in the men's room is that in the former, not only trans women, but all gender ambiguous females are scrutinized, whereas in the latter, biological males are less frequently deemed out of place. Further, compared to trans women in the women's room, trans men in the men's room are likely to be less scrutinized because men are less vigilant about intruders than women. However, a trans man in the men's room is more likely to be met with violence if he does not succeed in passing. \n\nTranswomen and transmen are “six times more likely to experience discrimination” than non-trans people. Over 2,000 incidents of anti-LGBT hate crimes were reported to the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs in 2013. In 2014, there was a national study of trans violence discovered with the results of  “53% of respondents reporting verbal assault and 8% physical assault in a place of public accommodation”. As a site where gender norms are policed, bathrooms are the most common public accommodation where trans people and gender non-conforming people experience hate violence. People tend to believe that there is a connection between genitals and gender. Therefore, the gender segregation of bathrooms is based on genital configuration. Because of this “match” between genitals and gender, trans people often are labeled as “deceivers” and blamed for the violence. When a trans or androgynous person is questioned in the bathroom, the reaction is “not to reassess the arbitrary nature of segregating bathrooms by sex but to violently eject the trans or gender non-conforming person”. Using a public bathroom is no longer a simple matter for trans and gender non-conforming people. \n\nAs of March 2017, 19 states (California, Nevada, Hawaii, New York, etc.), the District of Columbia and over 200 cities have enforced the anti-discrimination law toward transgender people allowing them to use any public restroom that corresponds to their gender. Also, most public accommodations changed their restroom signs where there are both genders and the text “Gender Neutral Restroom” or “Inclusive Restroom”. This law was passed because of the March 2016 “Bathroom Bill” in North Carolina. The bill argued that banning people from using public restrooms of their choice due to the biological sex listed on their birth certificates (genitals vs. gender) was unreasonable, therefore, it launched transgender rights into the national spotlight. \n\nIn 1924, gender norms accepted and re enforced ideologies that shadowed Freud’s hegemonic thesis that “biology is the key determinant of gender identity”. These norms were imbedded into cultural regularity, affecting gender identity in everyday life, law and politics. Gender policing strategies enforced these norms, and a prevalent tactic was to use culturally obligatory dress codes as a tool in forcing people into gender binaries. However progressive movements throughout history have worked vigorously to defy policing, combating restrictive norms through disregard and reformation of policed gender standards. Following of Freud’s theory has steadily begun to dwindle and new studies are beginning to reveal a popular uprising theory that individuals make their own decisions as to which gender distinguishments apply to them.  Modern opposition of gender norms are erasing the aged policing of conforming to the standards of one’s sex. According to a study by Intelligence Group, a consumer insights company, “More than two-thirds of people ages 14 to 34 agree that gender does not have to define a person in the way that it used to… and 6 in 10 say that men and women do not need to conform to traditional gender roles or behaviors anymore.” \nOlder fashion protocols systematically enforced normative gender binaries, confining people to dress and accessorize in a way that connected to their sex. Society would use gender policing tactics to enforce cultural and societal acceptance of a gendered dress code. Women were to dress in a feminine style, while men had to style themselves in a masculine way. The way one dressed was meant to represent their sex and it’s stereotypes, “Circumstantial or societal norms dictate the outfits we choose to wear, often reflecting the expectations we are held to” . Its only recently that most sumptuary type laws, laws used to enforce “gender appropriate clothes” and arrest people who “impersonate” another gender, have been overturned. For example, “a person perceived as male who dressed in clothing customarily designed for women could technically be arrested in New York for “impersonating a female” as recently as 2011 — the remnants of a 19th century statewide law prohibiting wearing “the dress of the opposite sex.”. Cultural policing tactics such as slut shaming, homophobia and transphobia are still used today to police fashion. There is still a long way to go for those pushing for the elimination of policed gendered dress codes.\nThis reformation campaign against gender policed conformity has found a focus in developing cultural acceptance for fluidity in modern cultural dress codes. Nowadays decisions on gender identity are seen as self made and a form of “self expression”. A prevalent way of expressing ones identity and not conforming to gender norms is through personal choice in style. These choices include apparel, accessories and beauty habits. Style has a “symbolic meaning” of self expression, “giving us a means to cultivate our own visions of the culture we experience around us”. Therefor, fashion nonconformity has expansively become wonted and accepted by a rising number of millennials who believe in bending past policed gendered binaries. They do this by ignoring the outdated dress codes that were previously used to confine someone to their gender identity. In disregarding a dress code that has been used as a weapon in enforcing gender binary, millennials have found a powerful opposition to gender policing.\nModern gender-specific fashion has become more flexible to personal preference, becoming visibly more directed against old gendered style constraints. The refusal to conform to the rules of outdated fashion protocol is being embraced by a la mode fashion and mainstream style. A recent pattern in clothing and accessories that transcend gender style norms has become steadily vogue and evidently pioneering fashion trends have increasingly grown accepting to the fusion of normally gender specific style details. Trendy nonconforming styles empower women to dress in an inclusively “masculine” manner and enable men to adapt “feminine” attributes in their style, for example women choosing to wear suits to work, or men wearing nail polish, etc. \n\n"}
{"id": "478581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=478581", "title": "Gàidhealtachd", "text": "Gàidhealtachd\n\nThe Gàidhealtachd (; English: \"Gaeldom\"), sometimes known as A' Ghàidhealtachd (English: \"The Gaeldom\"), usually refers to the Highlands and Islands of Scotland and especially the Scottish Gaelic-speaking culture of the area. The corresponding Irish word \"Gaeltacht\" refers strictly to Irish-speaking areas.\n\nThe term is also used to apply to the Scottish Gaelic-speaking Canadian areas of Nova Scotia and Glengarry County, Ontario.\n\n\"The \"Gàidhealtachd\"\" is not truly interchangeable with \"Scottish Highlands\" as it refers to the language and not to the geography. Also, many parts of the highlands no longer have substantial Gaelic-speaking populations, and some parts of what is now thought of as the Highlands have long been Scots-speaking or English-speaking areas: Caithness, Cromarty, Grantown-on-Spey, Campbeltown, etc. Conversely, several Gaelic-speaking communities lie outwith the Highland, Argyll and Bute and Outer Hebrides council areas, for example Isle of Arran and parts of Perth and Kinross, not to mention Nova Scotia, North Carolina, and other areas to which there was significant migration. \"Gàidhealtachd\" also increasingly refers to any region where Scottish Gaelic is spoken as a first language by much of the population. \n\n\"Galldachd\" (\"Gall-dom\", \"Gall\" referring to a non-Gael) is often used for the Lowlands, although it is also notable that the Hebrides are known as \"Innse Gall\" due to the historical presence of Norsemen.\n\nUntil a few centuries ago, the Gàidhealtachd would have included much of modern-day Scotland north of the Firth of Forth and Galloway (up until the 18th century, and maybe later), excepting the Northern Isles, as evidenced by the prevalence of Gaelic-derived place names throughout most of Scotland and contemporary accounts. These include Dundee from the Gaelic \"Dùn Deagh\", Inverness from \"Inbhir Nis\", Argyll from \"Earra-Ghàidheal\", Galloway from \"Gall-Ghaidhealaibh\", and possibly Stirling from \"Sruighlea\" (though the etymology is uncertain; see article). Gaelic speakers from what would be considered traditionally English-speaking/non-Gaelic regions today included George Buchanan (from Stirlingshire), Robert the Bruce (from Galloway), and Margaret McMurray (from Ayrshire).\n\nFor historical reasons, including the influence of a Scots-speaking court in Edinburgh and the plantation of merchant burghs in much of the south and east, the Gàidhealtachd has been reduced massively to the present region of the Outer Hebrides, the Northwest Highlands, the Skye and Loch Alsh and Argyll and Bute, with small Gaelic populations existing in Glasgow and Edinburgh. The Highland Clearances of the 18th and 19th centuries also contributed to the decline of the language, as they reduced the population of the Scottish Highlands, which were predominantly Gaelic-speaking at the time.\n\nScottish Gaelic has survived among communities descended from immigrants in parts of Nova Scotia (especially Cape Breton Island), Glengarry County in present-day Ontario, Prince Edward Island, and Newfoundland and Labrador. The Codroy Valley on the island of Newfoundland had a Gaelic-speaking minority until the 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21671922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21671922", "title": "Human trafficking in Kazakhstan", "text": "Human trafficking in Kazakhstan\n\nKazakhstan is a source, transit, and destination country for men, women, and girls trafficked from Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Ukraine to Kazakhstan and on to Russia and the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.) for purposes of commercial sexual exploitation and forced labor in the construction and agricultural industries. Kazakhstani men and women are trafficked internally and to the U.A.E., Azerbaijan, Turkey, Israel, Greece, Russia, and Germany and the United States for purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation.\n\nThe Government of Kazakhstan does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. Kazakhstan demonstrated increasing efforts to combat trafficking over the previous year, specifically by improving efforts to convict and sentence traffickers to time in prison. The number of traffickers convicted in 2007 significantly increased, and the majority of convicted traffickers served adequate sentences in prison. The government also took steps to address government officials’ complicity in trafficking. Kazakhstan allocated nearly $35,000 for victim assistance during 2007. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nThe Kazakhstan government made significant progress in its anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts over the reporting period. Kazakhstan prohibits trafficking in persons for both labor and sexual exploitation through Articles 128, 133, 125(3)(b), 126(3)(b), and 270 of its penal code, which prescribe penalties of up to 15 years’ imprisonment – penalties sufficiently stringent and commensurate with those prescribed for other grave crimes, such as rape. Police conducted 22 trafficking investigations and initiated 16 prosecution cases in 2007, compared to 13 investigations and seven prosecutions in 2006. Courts convicted 19 trafficking offenders in 2007, a significant improvement from one conviction in 2006. Of the 19 convicted trafficking offenders, one was sentenced to 12 years’ imprisonment, four were sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment, five were sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment, four were sentenced to six years’ imprisonment, two were sentenced to five years’ imprisonment, and three were sentenced to three years’ imprisonment. During the year there were reports of trafficking complicity of some border guards, migration police, prosecutors, and police. The government prosecuted three corrupt police officials, including the former head of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Unit in Almaty. One officer was sentenced to six years and six months’ imprisonment and two officers fled authorities and remained in hiding at the time of this report.\n\nThe government improved efforts to assist and protect victims during the year. The law provides that victims are not penalized for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked; however, NGOs continued to report that some victims, as the result of not being identified by authorities, were detained in jail and prevented from leaving the country for periods ranging from a few days to several months. NGOs reported that while law enforcement officials have improved their use of formal procedures to identify victims among vulnerable populations, some labor trafficking victims remain unidentified. In 2007, the police formally identified 87 victims of labor trafficking and 25 victims of commercial sexual exploitation. The government permitted identified victims to remain in Kazakhstan for the duration of the criminal investigation. Many victims refuse to testify for fear of retribution and Kazakhstan has not devoted sufficient resources to address the physical safety of the identified trafficking victim.\n\nThe government conducted active public awareness efforts. In 2007, the government funded the production of approximately 3,000 booklets that were distributed by NGOs among groups vulnerable to trafficking, including people in rural areas and school children. The government provided at least $12,500 for anti-trafficking NGOs to conduct awareness campaigns during the reporting period. The government monitors formal migration patterns for evidence of trafficking. The government did not implement measures to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts during the reporting period. Kazakhstan has ratified the 2000 UN TIP Protocol in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "35356098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35356098", "title": "Illegal immigration to South Korea", "text": "Illegal immigration to South Korea\n\nSince 1991, Korea has experienced a large influx of foreign workers, and the government has utilized trainee programs since 1992. About 10,000 Asian workers came to Korea under this program in 1992, and there were about 57,000 trainees in Korea in June 1996. However, the trainee program experienced problems: the trainees became undocumented workers due to a difference in wages and since they were not classified as laborers, they were not protected by the Labor Standard Law. The Employment Permit Program for foreigners (the government’s foreign-labor policy since 2004) is a product achieved by a decade of interaction between Korean citizens and foreign migrant workers. However, these issues have more details to be resolved. On the legal front, the Korean state still allows foreigners to apply for low-wage jobs and excludes them from social benefits. The social dimension of nationhood is shown by public-opinion polls of Korean citizens' attitudes towards foreign workers, which demonstrate discrimination.\n\nAs of the end of June 2011, 166,518 foreigners had overstayed their working visas, a reduction from 177,955 in 2009 and 168,515 in 2010, according to the authorities.\n\nThe ministry stated 17 immigration offices under its control will conduct the one-month crackdown in conjunction the Ministry of Employment and Labor.\n\nIn 2011, the South Korean government temporarily refused to accept Vietnamese.\n"}
{"id": "10697727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10697727", "title": "Jawi Peranakan", "text": "Jawi Peranakan\n\nThe Jawi Peranakan (Jawi: جاوي ڤرانقن) is an ethnic group found primarily within the Malaysian state of Penang and in Singapore, both regions were part of the historical Straits Settlements where their culture and history is centred around. The term \"Jawi Peranakan\" refers to locally born, Malay-speaking Muslims of mixed Indian and Malay ancestry. Over time, this has grown to include people with Arab ancestry as well. They were an elite group within the British Malayan community in mid-19th century Malaya. In addition to their substantial wealth and social standing, they are remembered for setting up the first Malay newspaper in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and China, the \"Jawi Peranakan\". They are often referred to as “mamak” although some find this term to be derogatory.\n\nSince Penang and Singapore's founding in 1786 and 1819, the number of South Asian immigrants to these colonies grew rapidly. Many were South Indian men. However, Jawi Peranakan ancestry does include a large number of other South Asians, from northern India and Pakistan. Women travelled to Singapore only from the 1860s, and even then in small numbers. This led to a shortage of South Asian brides, and so South Asian Muslim men often married Malay Muslim women. The descendants of these unions were called Jawi Peranakan.\n\n\"Jawi\" is an Arabic word to denote Southeast Asia, while Peranakan is a Malay word meaning \"born of\" (it also refers to the elite, locally born Chinese). More broadly, South Asian Muslims without mixed parentage but born in the Straits Settlements were sometimes also called Jawi Peranakan, as were children from Arab-Malay marriages. Similar terms for mixed Malay-South Asian people were \"Jawi Pekan\" (mostly used in Penang). Jawi Peranakan families were found throughout Malaysia, especially Penang, and Singapore.\n\nThe Jawi Peranakan chose their spouses carefully, screening prospective matches for wealth and status, rather than racial origins. This enabled intermarriage between Jawi Peranakan and other prosperous local Muslim communities, like the Arabs, Indians and the Malay aristocrats. Despite assimilating into the Malay culture, the Jawi Peranakan maintained a distinct identity which was captured in their architecture, clothing, jewelry and cuisine. Also, the community placed a strong emphasis on getting an English education, especially since many Jawi Peranakans hold Colonial Government jobs. Culturally, they contributed to the arts scene of the region, especially in music.\n\nThe Jawi Peranakan were enterprising and progressive and by the late 19th century, they had accumulated considerable wealth and status and contributed to the economy as merchants and landlords. They were also literate and English-educated, easily qualifying for government jobs. A group of Jawi Peranakan financed the first Malay language newspaper, the Jawi-Peranakan. Its first editor was Munsyi Mohamed Said Bin Dada Mohiddin, a South Indian Muslim who remained as editor for 12 years, from 1876 to 1888.\n\nThere are a few Jawi Peranakan families left in Singapore and Malaysia, especially Penang, which used to be their largest settlement. However, most today register as Malays. The loss of their identity is due to various causes. Economically, other competing mercantile groups were emerging. The Great Depression led many Jawi Peranakan business empires to bankruptcy and a severe fall in rent collected by landlords. Over time, the Jawi Peranakan grew increasingly dependent on government and clerical jobs.\n\nBy the turn of the 20th century, the political climate favoured the Malays. As the largest racial group and the indigenous people of Malaya, they were seen as the natural successors to the British, with the waning of the British Empire. Projecting an identity that was distinctly apart from the Malays was therefore not expedient. In the 1920s and 1930s, the Jawi Peranakan were also criticised for their brand of religious belief of Hanafi Islam which different from Shafi'i Islam practised by the Malays. Furthermore, the Jawi Peranakan tended to be reformist and they challenged the authority of Malay royalty in religious matters. Most were born and bred in the Straits Settlements, and had never been a subject of the Sultan. They therefore lacked this political and cultural quality which was seen to define a \"true Malay\".\n\nIn colonial Singapore and British Malaya, the Jawi Peranakan remain a community held in high regard by the local Malays primarily due to the educational achievements and the wealth inherited. Families such as the Angullias have left their mark on modern day Singapore with places like Angullia Park near Singapore's famous Orchard Road still bearing the name of the clan. Other families include the Maricars or Maricans.\n\nWhile due to the intermarriage with other Muslim communities, many of their descendants inherited an Arab (Syed, Sayyid) or to some extent Malay surnames (Tengku, Wan, Megat). Many whom are married to the Malays have also dropped their surnames since most Malays practised a Patronym naming system.\n\n\n\nNagata, J. A. (1984). The reflowering of Malaysian Islam: Modern religious radicals and their roots (pp. 14, 118-122, 186, 249). Vancouver: University of British Columbia Press.\n\nTan, Y. S., & Soh, Y. P. (1994). The development of Singapore's modern media industry (pp. 8–9). Singapore: Times Academic Press.\n\nUrban Redevelopment Authority, Preservation of Monuments Board. (1991). Jamae Mosque preservation guidelines (pp. 7–9). Singapore: Author.\n\nJeman Sulaiman. (7 November 1988). The rise of Malay newspaper. The Straits Times, p. 6.\n\nKhoo, S. N. (30 August 2001). A rich legacy. The Star (Malaysia), Lifestyle.\n\nMohani Musa. (25 October 2001). The Penang story: Flags of conflict. The Star (Malaysia), Lifestyle.\n\n"}
{"id": "42126731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42126731", "title": "Joaldun", "text": "Joaldun\n\nA Joalduna is a traditional character of the culture of Navarre, especially in some small villages of the north of Navarre: Ituren and Zubieta. His function is to shake some cowbells to warn people about the arrival of the carnivals, which are celebrated annually on the last weekend of January.\n\nThe tradition of the \"Joaldunak\" takes place in some villages of Navarre, specially in the region of \"Malerreka\". \"Ituren\" and \"Zubieta\" are located in the Pyrenees, 56.5 km due north of Pamplona, capital city of Navarre. They are situated on the flood plain of the River Ezkurra, a tributary of the River Bidasoa, in the shadow of the Mendaur mountain (1060m). The distance between the two villages is no more than 3 km.\n\nAlthough the original name is Joaldun, this character is referred to in a number of other ways: \"kaldurro\", \"ttuntturro\", \"txantxurro\"... However, the most used but not totally correct name is Zanpantzar.\n\nThe name Zanpantzar has become more common over the years, although nobody in \"Zubieta\" or \"Ituren\" uses this name.\n\nZanpantzar, therefore, means:\n\nThe original suit of a Zanpantzar had some characteristics in common, although nowadays each individual group has modified the costume. The features of the costume are:\n\n\nAlthough the costumes of the village are similar to each other, there are some vatiations:\n\nThe tradition was that the costume could only be worn by men, normally over 18 and native of the place, but a few years ago, some girls decided to dress up as \"Joaldun\". However, the children can sometimes march following their older relative's steps.\n\nA \"Joalduna\" is the character who warns of the arrival of the carnivals, and is the centrepoint of the celebration. The origin of the carnivals and their objective are not known, but the tradition is thought to be bound to the (?)canching and mysticism. In fact, the \"Joaldunak\" are said to have been not only the creatures who protected the cattle, but also the ones who chased the bad spirits away, favouring the good harvests.\n\nOn Monday at noon, the \"Zubietar\"s (the people of \"Zubieta\") \"Joaldunak\" set off for \"Ituren\" (the road is only 3 km). The route follows the course of the river \"Ezkurra\", which flows around the \"Mendaur\" mountain, geographic accidents that give the region its name: \"Malerreka\" (\"Malda eta erreka\", \"Slope and river\").\n\nHalf way along the route, they will be met by the people of the \"Ittundar\" (the people of \"Ituren\") neighborhood of \"Aurtitz\". After that, they will go towards Latsaga's neighborhood to join with the \"Joaldunak\" of Ituren. There will start the joint parade of approximately forty or fifty \"Joaldun\"s (between eighty and a hundred bells) which, after passing through the whole of the centre of Ituren, will end up in the village square. There they will have a communal lunch to celebrate the brotherhood of the villages.\n\nOn Tuesday, the following day, the \"Ituren\" \"Joaldunak\" will pay a return visit to those of \"Zubieta\". This is the end of the carnivals.\n\nEvery year a celebration is held to honour all the Basque groups that have kept the tradition. This is not confined to just the Navarre villages; many Basque towns have taken up \"Joaldunak\" groups since the establishment of the \"Joaldunen biltzarra\". The festivities include parades, concerts, communal feasts and musical events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40158006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40158006", "title": "Large-group capacitation", "text": "Large-group capacitation\n\nLarge-group capacitation is an adult education and social psychology concept associated with the Brazilian sociologist Clodomir Santos de Morais, and grounded in the \"activity\" of the individual and the social psychology of the large group. When applied to the context of the Organization Workshop (OW), which, historically, has been used mainly for the purpose of job creation and income generation, it is known as Metodología da Capacitação Massiva (MCM) in Portuguese, Método de Capacitación Masiva (MCM) in Spanish and as Large-Group Capacitation Method (LGCM) in English.\n\nThe English term capacitation is a translation of the latino terms \"capacitação\" (Portuguese)/\"capacitación\" (Spanish).Capacitation marks the generic difference between transitive and intransitive modes of learning and communicating implicit in de Morais' aphorism \"se aprende, porém não se capacita\" (Portuguese) : \"[The trainee] learns, but is not capacitated\". Capacitation, – from \"capacitação\" (Portuguese) -, here, is reminiscent of the adult education concept of \"conscientization\" – from \"conscientização\" (Portuguese) -, popularized by Brazilian theorist, activist and a lifelong friend of Clodomir's, Paulo Freire. While Freire's work was translated into English as early as 1970,\nde Morais' Organization Workshop (OW) – and, hence, moraisean large-group capacitation (LGC) – did not come to the attention of the English-speaking public until the mid-80s, when the Chilean Social Psychologists I. & I. Labra moved to Zimbabwe and transferred the method to the (southern) African context. Latino texts were initially translated on an 'ad hoc' basis, including the 'dictionary' translation of \"capacitación\" (Spanish) as \"training\" (English). Cherrett's 1992 first ever translation into English of de Morais' \"Apuntes de Teoría de la Organización\", also, was still referred to as a \"Training\" Manual. \nIt was not until the ALFA International Conference in Manchester, UK, in 1998, attended by de Morais and academics from four European and four Latin American Universities, that a consensus was reached on the dedicated terms Capacitation and Large Group Capacitation (LGC).\n\nCapacitation (outside the field of biology) has been used previously, in English, mainly to emphasize educational content which differs from and/or transcends the basic meaning of the English one-size-fits-all \"training\". In some sectors of Community health, \"capacitation\" is said to be synonymous with \"empowering training\". Capacitation has also historically been used in the area of adult education, starting with Paulo Freire, who, in the seventies, uses the term \"Technical Proficiency Capacitation\" to refer to a (n adult) learning activity which can \"never be reduced to the level of mere training\". In the eighties, Capacitation is defined, by the ILO, as: \"availability of opportunities for people to build up their capacities to move from the status of object and passive victims of social processes to the status of subjects guided by self-consciousness and active agents of change\". The UNRISD (Geneva) had started (in the seventies) to promote the term capacitation as a \"problem-solving, educational\" alternative to the then prevalent but mainly pragmatic 'social amelioration' approaches to International development. Jan Nederveen Pieterse contrasts \"capacitation\"/\"human development\", as proposed by \"alternative\" or \"autonomous\" (aka self-development) theorists – (such as e.g. Korten, 1990; Max-Neef, 1991; Rahman, 1993 and Carmen, 1996), – with \"development-as -economic growth\" theorists' for whom, according to Pieterse, \"capital accumulation\" is the ultimate Development objective. By the mid-nineties, any mention of \"capacitation\" had virtually disappeared from the International Development scene, to be replaced by the World-Bank-sponsored \"Capacity Building\" discourse. Although de Morais worked for many years with a range of UN and International Agencies, his \"Activity\"-based pedagogy never became common currency there, possibly, as Sobrado suggests, because of, among others, its then presumed “Evil Empire” pedigree.\n\nThe major theoretical influence, acknowledged by de Morais, in the development of the LGC concept and method, is the work of Aleksei N. Leontiev specifically his concept of \"Objective(ized) Activity\" which means that, in order to change the mind-set of individuals, we need to start with changes to their activity – and/or to the object that \"suggests\" their activity. \"Objective(ized) Activity\" is at the core of what Labra has referred to as \"another\" tradition of Social Psychology, namely the Cultural-historical Activity Theory-based branch of Social Psychology, which sets it apart from mainstream (behaviorist/lewinian Social Psychology of small groups. The 'locus' of activity-based LGC is the Organization Workshop(OW), a learning event where participants, applying social division of labor principles, master new organizational knowledge and skills through a learning-by-doing approach. In OW-learning, the trainer's role is merely subsidiary (known as \"scaffolding\" in Activity Theory). In other words, it is not the trainer/instructor \"who\" teaches, but \"the object \"that\" teaches\". Moraisean capacitation, then...\"involves several elements: mastery of a practical experience, perhaps with some theoretical guidance but at least with some theoretical insight; an element in which the object itself \"guides\" or influences the subject's understanding in the course of the activity; a process of critical reflection on action and on motives of action. Crucially, it always involves working with \"the whole\" and not a small part of the system\"\".\n\nThe insights that gave rise to what came to be known as the moraisean Large Group Capacitation Method (LGCM) were an unanticipated consequence of a 30-day course, in 1954, for a large group of the Northeast Region, Brazil Peasant Leagues' middle-level leadership to study Brazilian Agrarian reform law. The group met under clandestine conditions at a family home normally accommodating 7 people, in a heavily policed part of Recife (Brazil). Through the early 1960s de Morais staged workshops of an experimental character throughout the northeast of Brazil. After he was forced into exile following the 1964 coup d'état, he worked as ILO Agrarian Reform Regional Advisor for Central America, and later under the auspices of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), he was able to launch a multitude of 'Experimental Laboratories' (later called Organization Workshops in the Southern Africa version of the method). From 1973 he applied the emerging method to peasants' capacitation within the Agrarian reform Program of Honduras: over three years more than 200 workshops took place, with participation of more than 24000 peasants and government officers from around the region. Over the years de Morais worked as consultant and/or director with the UNDP, FAO, and Catholic Relief Services. Elsewhere the OW has been sponsored by Hivos, Norwegian People's Aid, terre des hommes, Concern Worldwide, Redd Barna and, recently e.g. in South Africa, the Seriti Institute, Soul City Institute and government departments such as South Africa's Department of Social Development. The OW, in a variety of local, regional and national applications, and in different formats, has spread, over the years, to Costa Rica, Mexico, Panamá, Colombia, El Salvador, Honduras, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Brazil, the Caribbean, a number of African countries as well as Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15266451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15266451", "title": "Life After People", "text": "Life After People\n\nLife After People is a television series on which scientists, structural engineers, and other experts speculate about what might become of Earth should humanity instantly disappear. The featured experts also talk about the impact of human absence on the environment and the vestiges of civilization thus left behind. The series was preceded by a two-hour special that aired on January 21, 2008 on the History Channel which served as a de facto pilot for the series that premiered April 21, 2009. The documentary and subsequent series were both narrated by James Lurie.\n\nThe program does not speculate on how humanity may disappear, stipulating only that it has, and that it has done so suddenly, leaving everything behind including household pets and livestock that have to fend for themselves. The thought experiment is based on documented results of the sudden removal of humans from a geographical area and the results that have occurred when people discontinue the maintenance of buildings and urban infrastructure. Lurie's narration begins:\n\nThe series' episodes thematically offer examples of urban and biological decay. The focus is on specific locations such as skyscrapers, religious icons, bridges and dams, and government buildings, and the fate of certain related objects, such as artifacts, documents and human bodies. The fate of some kinds of flora and fauna are covered as well. Each episode also contains a segment in which experts examine real locations that have been abandoned by people, including ghost towns and other sites of deterioration, where the deterioration has been caused by events similar to those outlined in the episode. Although the series speculates on the fates of landmarks around the world, the main focus is on situations that may occur at locations in the United States.\n\nThe various events that may occur after people disappear suddenly are depicted using CGI dramatizations. The timeline of predicted events begins approximately one day after the disappearance of humankind and extends up to one hundred million years into the future (one day, one week, one year, 10 years, 15 years, 25 years, 50 years, 100 years, 200 years, etc.).\n\nThe program's tagline is the ominous greeting:\n\nThe two-hour special documentary had an audience of 5.4 million viewers and was the most watched program ever on the History Channel. The program was broadcast in the United Kingdom on Channel 4 and narrated by Struan Rodger on May 29, 2008 and in Australia on Channel Seven on November 25, 2008, edited down to air for 90 minutes, with narration by Australian television presenter Simon Reeve.\n\nThe success of the special eventually spawned a spin-off television series, which premiered on the History Channel on April 21, 2009. A second season began airing on January 5, 2010.\n\nA&E Home Video has released these DVDs:\n\nThat of the original documentary:\n\nThat of the first season of the series:\n\nThat of the second season of the series:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41702025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41702025", "title": "List of UK caving fatalities", "text": "List of UK caving fatalities\n\nThis is a list of recreational caving fatalities in the United Kingdom. It includes all verified deaths associated with the exploration of natural caves and disused mines in the modern era (post 1880). Deaths involving members of the general public who may have slipped down a shaft, or wandered into a cave without being aware of the risks, have been excluded.\n\nThere have been a total of 132 fatalities associated with recreational caving. The main causes of death have been drowning when cave diving, drowning as the result of flooding or negotiating deep water, injuries incurred from falling from a height, and injuries incurred as the result of rock falls. In ten cases the bodies have not been recovered.\n\nThe worst incident in UK caving history was the Mossdale Caverns incident in 1967 when six cavers were drowned following an unexpected cloud burst. There have been three incidents when three people have died. The first was when three cavers drowned in Langstroth Pot in 1976 when free-diving short sections of underwater passage as the result of the air in an air bell becoming foul. Three cavers were killed by a rock fall in Ease Gill Caverns in 1988, and three cavers were drowned in the Marble Arch system in 1995.\n\nPorth yr Ogof, in South Wales, accounts for eleven fatalities, nine of which were the result of people drowning when negotiating the exit pool. Ease Gill Caverns and its associated entrances account for ten deaths; Alum Pot and its associated entrances account for six, as does Mossdale Caverns (all from the 1967 incident).\n\nThe only case of a caver dying in the UK as the result of becoming stuck was Neil Moss in Peak Cavern in 1959. The cause of death was foul air building up around him.\n\nThe following table summarises the major causes of fatality in UK caving by cause and by area. The commonest cause of fatality in the UK is drowning - accounting for half the deaths when cave diving is included, and 42% when diving is excluded. The second major cause of fatality, when cave diving is excluded, is falling from height which accounts for 20% of fatalities, followed by rock fall which accounts for 14% of fatalities. The 'Other' category includes gas poisoning and asphyxiation.\n\nThe following table summarises the major causes of fatality in UK caving by decade. The changes from decade to decade partly reflect the different numbers of active cavers, partly changing techniques, and partly improved equipment.\n\nThe following bar chart shows the number of fatalities over time, in five year intervals.\n\n"}
{"id": "29411239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29411239", "title": "Maldivians in Pakistan", "text": "Maldivians in Pakistan\n\nMaldivians in Pakistan are mostly students pursuing degrees and courses across various universities and colleges throughout the country. According to registrations based with the local embassy and Maldivian government records, their numbers are in the hundreds; in addition, some 400-600 students are in the country unregistered. There are an estimated 150 Maldivian students obtaining religious education and instruction in Pakistani Islamic institutions and madrassas. Maldivian diplomats also receive training in Pakistan.\n\nIn the afterwake of the 2009 International Islamic University bombing in Islamabad, hundreds of Maldivian students studying in different parts of Pakistan were found fearing for their safety. Among the eight Maldivian students studying at IIU, two of them were present at the University when the bombs went off. A Maldivian student speaking on the occasion remarked that threats against educational institutions had become widespread and she hoped \"they won’t target us.\" Another said: \"Actually now we are used to threats like these…..we expect things to go bad but there is nothing that we can do.\" In light of the instability, the Maldivian government has claimed to have received and taken into account intelligence on the country's security situation and concerns for safety of Maldivian nationals. In November 2009, the Government of Maldives recommended Maldivian students to return amid fears that the war in Pakistan could spread further and pose a danger to the students. In addition, it pledged full cooperation to those who wished to do so.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31209916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31209916", "title": "Menios Koutsogiorgas", "text": "Menios Koutsogiorgas\n\nAgamemnon Koutsogiorgas (; 1922April 18, 1991), commonly known as Menios Koutsogiorgas (Μένιος Κουτσόγιωργας), was a Greek lawyer, police officer and politician. As a close associate of Andreas Papandreou, the founder and leader of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), Koutsogiorgas emerged as one of the most powerful cabinet member during PASOK's 1981–1989 government, and was widely regarded as Papandreou's heir apparent. Embroiled in the George Koskotas scandal however, he was brought before a Special Tribunal. During the procedure he collapsed in the court room on 11 April 1991 and died a week later.\n\nKoutsogiorgas was born in May 1922 in the village of Rodini in Achaea. During the Axis Occupation of Greece in the Second World War, Koutsogiorgas was active in the \"Omiros\" resistance group, and was arrested and imprisoned by the Italian occupation authorities. He studied at the Law School of the University of Athens, and received his law degree in 1945. That same year, he became a police officer in the Athens branch of the City Police. He served as a police officer for seven years, until he resigned in 1952, in order to become a lawyer and open his own law firm. In 1958 he obtained a postgraduate degree in Public Law from the Law Faculty of the University of Paris.\n\nIn the post-war era, he became a prominent Athens lawyer, and was closely associated with Georgios Papandreou, the leader of the Liberal Party and later of the Centre Union. During the ASPIDA scandal of 1965, he was defence attorney to the Georgios Papandreou's son, Andreas Papandreou. \n\nDuring the Greek military junta of 1967–1974, Koutsogiorgas participated in attempts to organize armed resistance against the regime as early as 1967, and was arrested and imprisoned after arms and radio transmitters were discovered at his home. He was later released, but re-arrested in 1970 and held for a while, undergoing interrogation by the infamous EAT-ESA.\n\nAs a close associate of Andreas Papandreou, Koutsogiorgas became a founding member of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) during the \"metapolitefsi\".\n\nHe was elected Member of Parliament in the first national election that took place in November 1974 after the fall of the military government. He held a parliament seat for the prefecture of Achaea in all successive national elections until 1989. In the first PASOK cabinet, Koutsogiorgas was appointed Minister to the Presidency of the Government on 21 October 1981, a post he held until 17 January 1984, when he was named Minister for the Interior. He held the post until resigning on 9 May 1985 before the parliamentary elections, with the exception of the period 22 May – 21 June 1984, when he was replaced by an acting minister for the European Parliament election. During this time he played a major role in the March 1985 political crisis over the issue of the re-nomination of then-President of Greece Constantine Karamanlis for a second term. Papandreou had promised it several times, but the PASOK party base and Koutsogiorgas himself fiercely opposed it. Eventually, largely through Koutsogiorgas insistence PASOK proposed the judge Christos Sartzetakis for the post.\n\nFollowing PASOK's electoral victory in the 1985 election, Koutsogiorgas was re-appointed Interior Minister on 5 June 1985. In the reshuffle of 26 July 1985, he assumed the Public Order portfolio as well, keeping it until 25 April 1986. He remained Interior Minister until 5 February 1987, and on 23 September 1987, he was appointed Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Justice. While popular with the broader PASOK electorate but lacking a strong party base, this appointment made him the \"de facto\" number two in the government. During Papandreou's illness in 1988 and his absence from Greece in August–September for a heart bypass operation in the United Kingdom Koutsogiorgas functioned as the virtual Prime Minister.\n\nAt the same time however, he came under increasing criticism from the press and from within PASOK for his handling of the George Koskotas and his Bank of Crete scandal, in particular over a bank secrecy law that according to some critics would allow Koskotas to evade scrutiny. He continued to enjoy the support of Papandreou: although he was forced to quit the posts of Vice-President of the Government and Justice Minister on 18 November 1988, he was re-appointed as Minister to the Presidency of the Government. The mounting crisis peaked in March 1989, when audio tapes of conversations between Koskotas's wife and an associate of Koskotas (I.Matzouranis) were released by Koskotas who was already a fugitive and imprisoned in the US. The tapes purported to show that Koutsogiogras had received 2 million US dollars in a Swiss bank account for \"tailoring\" the bank secrecy law for Koskotas. Koutsogiorgas, denied these claims and accused Koskotas for attempting to blackmail the government at a time he was a fugitive from Greek law and government actions caused his fraudulent empire to crumble. Papandreou survived a vote of confidence in parliament, but Koutsogiorgas submitted his resignation on 16 March 1989. The subsequent investigation showed that a close associate of Koskotas, I. Matzouranis, which used to be a member of the PASOK government and was connected with Koutsogiorgas had mediated in the fall of 1988 to open a bank account for Koutsogiorgas in Switzerland. After a couple of weeks he made a deposit of $1,2 million in that account. A few weeks later, Koutsogiorgas aware of the deposit turned the funds back to Matzouranis and closed the account. When those events were revealed in March 1989 Matzouranis claimed Koutsogiorgas was expecting the deposit. Koutsogiorgas claimed that the account was opened for personal reasons and that the specific deposit was an attempt to get him entrapped by Koskotas and Matzouranis at a critical juncture of the Koskotas case when his illegal activities were exposed. The details of these events remained unexamined as Koutsogiorgas lost his life while defending himself during the proceedings in court.\n\nOn 18 May, the PASOK Central Committee voted against him standing as a candidate during the June 1989 parliamentary elections until the investigation on the Bank of Crete case was complete. On 27 September, in a Parliament vote Koutsogiorgas along with Andreas Papandreou, Dimitris Tsovolas and Giorgos Petsos were sent to a Special Tribunal set up to investigate the Koskotas scandal. In a move that at the time was criticized as politicized and excessive, the 68-year-old Koutsogiorgas, alone among the accused, was placed into pre-trial custody at Korydallos prison on 2 October 1990. The move was supported by the new Mitsotakis (ND) government who had been elected just a few months before on a ticket of battling alleged corruption by the Socialist party. Koutsogiorgas immediately appealed this decision, taking his case to the Athens Appellate Court's Appeals Council; his appeal was successful, and he was released from pre-trial detention and set free on 10 January 1991.\n\nThe trial began in a heavily politicized atmosphere on 11 March 1991, broadcast on live television. Koutsogiorgas stood his ground and his examination of prosecution witness Ioannis Kamaras (chief auditor of the Bank of Greece) exposed many flaws in the prosecution's case. On 11 April, while examining a witness (Stathis Papageorgiou, former Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece), Koutsogiorgas collapsed in the courtroom and died seven days later. His funeral gathered large crowds in the center of Athens and developed into a political protest against the continuing proceedings of the Special Tribunal. The later was seen by a large part of the press and the population as politically motivated and a result of partisan politics.\n\nMenios Koutsogiorgas was married to Aliki Koutsogiorga and had three children. His brother, Praxitelis (Telis) Koutsogiorgas was a General of the Greek Gendarmerie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57773651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57773651", "title": "National Digital Inclusion Alliance", "text": "National Digital Inclusion Alliance\n\nNational Digital Inclusion Alliance (NDIA) is a US nonprofit organization that brings together over 300 non-profit organizations, policy-makers, and academics to advocate for national access to broadband and to put an end to the multiple digital divides. \nNDIA has provided community-vetted definitions of digital equity and digital inclusion, puts on an annual conference called Net Inclusion, and sponsors a Digital Inclusion Week. NDIA argues that the US government needs \"an organized federal strategy\" to get broadband to rural and other underserved areas and have worked to support the expansion of the Federal Communications Commission's Lifeline program to expand to include broadband subsidies.\n\nNDIA was founded in May, 2015 under the auspices of the PAST Foundation in order to be \"a unified voice for local technology training, home broadband access, and public broadband access programs.\" NDIA is a membership-based organization, and is an independent 501(c)3 as of 2018. As of June 2018, NDIA had 338 affiliated organizations.\n\nNDIA uses data from the American Community Survey to highlight how many households in the U.S. lack \"fixed broadband internet subscriptions\" to create a list of America's worst connected cities.\n\nUsing FCC broadband availability data, NDIA did a six month mapping analysis of Cleveland neighborhoods showing the distribution of its highest and lowest internet speeds. Using this data, they accused AT&T of \"digital redlining\" via a formal complaint with the FCC claiming AT&T did not make upgrades in low-income neighborhoods while deploying fiber in wealthier neighborhoods. Current FCC Chairman Ajit Pai used this report to encourage the creation of \"Gigabit Opportunity Zones\" in low-income areas in the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "387430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387430", "title": "Odalisque", "text": "Odalisque\n\nAn odalisque () was a chambermaid or a female attendant in a Turkish seraglio, particularly the court ladies in the household of the Ottoman sultan.\n\nThe word \"odalisque\" is French in form and originates from the Turkish \"odalık\", meaning \"chambermaid\", from \"oda\", \"chamber\" or \"room\". It can also be transliterated \"odahlic\", \"odalisk\", and \"odaliq\".\n\nJoan DelPlato has described the term's shift in meaning from Turkish to English and French:\n\nThe English and French term odalisque (rarely odalique) derives from the Turkish 'oda', meaning \"chamber\"; thus an odalisque originally meant a chamber girl or attendant. In western usage, the term has come to refer specifically to the harem concubine. By the eighteenth century the term odalisque referred to the eroticized artistic genre in which a nominally eastern woman lies on her side on display for the spectator.\n\nAn \"odalık\" was not a concubine of the harem, but a maid, although it was possible that she could become one. An \"odalık\" was ranked at the bottom of the social stratification of a harem, serving not the man of the household, but rather, his concubines and wives as personal chambermaids. \"Odalık\" were usually slaves given as gifts to the sultan by wealthy Turkish men. Generally, an \"odalık\" was never seen by the sultan but instead remained under the direct supervision of his mother, the Valide Sultan.\n\nIf an \"odalık\" was of extraordinary beauty or had exceptional talents in dancing or singing, she would be trained as a possible concubine. If selected, an \"odalık\" trained as a court lady would serve the sultan sexually and only after such sexual contact would she change in status, becoming thenceforth one of the consorts of the sultan.\n\nIn contrast to European depictions of nude harem women, they more often wore androgynous robes resembling those worn by the male pages of the palace. The conditions of the Ottoman harem \"resembled a monastery for young girls more than the bordello of European imagination.\"\n\nW. S. Gilbert refers to the \"Grace of an odalisque on a divan\" in Colonel Calverley's song \"If You Want A Receipt For That Popular Mystery\" from the Gilbert and Sullivan opera \"Patience.\"\n\nIn popular use, the word \"odalisque\" also may refer to a mistress, concubine or paramour of a wealthy man.\n\nDuring the 19th century, \"odalisques\" became common fantasy figures in the artistic movement known as Orientalism, being featured in many erotic paintings from that era. \n\nBy the later 19th century, Turkish writers such as Melek Hanum used the word odalisque to refer to slave-concubines when writing in English:\nIf any lady possesses a pretty-looking slave, the fact soon gets known. The gentlemen who wish to buy an odalisque or a wife, make their offers. Many Turks, indeed, prefer to take a slave as a wife, as, in such case, there is no need to dread fathers, mothers, or brothers-in-law, and other undesirable relations.\nIn 2011, the Law Society of British Columbia brought a discipline hearing against an unnamed lawyer for referring to another lawyer's client as living with an odalisque. The Law Society found the use of the word, though an extremely poor choice, did not rise to the level of professional misconduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "1072253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072253", "title": "Penang Sign Language", "text": "Penang Sign Language\n\nPenang Sign Language was developed in Malaysia by deaf children, outside the classroom, when oralism was predominant. It is now mainly used by older people, although many younger people can understand it.\n\nPenang Sign Language began when the first school for the deaf, Federation School for the Deaf (FSD), was established by Lady Templer, the wife of the British High Commissioner in Malaya, in 1954. Deaf students went to FSD, to learn oral skills, not sign language. However, the students would sign by themselves in the dormitory of FSD every night. \n\nIn the 1960s, Tan Yap went to Gallaudet University in Washington, D.C. to learn deaf culture and sign language. He brought an ASL book back with him to Malaysia. But Tan Yap's suggestions were rejected by the Government. \n\nAn American, Professor Frances Parsons, travelled around the world in 1976 in order to introduce Total Communication and Sign Language to poor schools for the deaf, in order to better prepare them for education. In the same year, Frances Parsons went to Kuala Lumpur to meet with Dr Mahathir bin Mohamad, the Minister of Education. After a 45-minute discussion, Dr Mahathir agreed with Parsons's suggestions and theory. In the next few days, Dr. Mahathir announced new legislation that obliged schools in Malaysia to teach Total Communication and Sign Language. Manchester-trained teachers were unhappy with the new law and protested Mohamad's decision. As a result, BIM (Bahasa Isyarat Malaysia) or MSL (Malaysian Sign Language) became similar to American Sign Language after 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "54614721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54614721", "title": "Projet PIBien-être", "text": "Projet PIBien-être\n\nThe \"Projet PIBien-être\" is the first official initiative for measuring well-being and quality of life in Luxembourg.\n\nIn 2013, a joint commission led by the Conseil économique et social, the Conseil supérieur pour un développement durable and the Observatoire de la Compétitivité introduced a set of indicators measuring the quality of life in Luxembourg. The conclusions of the commission were summarised in a document titled \"Projet PIBien-être\", which identified 64 indicators belonging to 11 different domains to assess quality of life in Luxembourg.\n\nIn 2015, within the \"Projet PIBien-être\", STATEC (National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg) presented a preliminary analysis of the \"Luxembourgish Index of Well-being\" (LIW), a first proposal of synthetic indicator measuring the quality of life in Luxembourg. The presentation entitled \"Preliminary Assessment of Quality of Life in Luxembourg\" was delivered by Marcin Piekałkiewicz on 16 December 2015.\n\nThe results were published by STATEC in 2016 in \"Rapport travail et cohésion sociale\".\n\nThe quality of life domains identified in the \"Projet PIBien-être\" are as follows:\nIn total the \"Projet PIBien-être\" includes 63 indicators calculated based on international surveys – e.g. European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC), European Union Labour Force Survey (EU-LFS), European Value Study (EVS), Eurobarometer – as well as administrative data available at STATEC and in other Luxembourgish institutes, such as the IGSS (L'Inspection générale de la sécurité sociale).\n\nHappiness economics\n\nOECD Better Life Index\n\nGross National Happiness\n\nHappy Planet Index\n\n"}
{"id": "54081577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54081577", "title": "Race-conscious policy", "text": "Race-conscious policy\n\nA race-conscious policy is a policy that aims to improve the conditions of racial minorities. In the United States, such policies are typically aimed at improving the status of African-Americans. Many different kinds of race-conscious policies exist, ranging from nondiscrimination policy to strict numerical racial quotas. Their main purpose is twofold: to compensate for past discrimination against the target race, and to increase equality of opportunity. \nIn the United States, race-conscious policies like desegregation busing have long been used to counteract school segregation. The Supreme Court of the United States ruled in favor of these measures more in the 1960s and the 1970s than it has since then.\nFrance, unlike many other Western European countries (including Britain), has avoided adopting race-conscious policies. Variations in these policies between Britain and France are in large part due to the different frames through which the policies were portrayed in the two countries.\n\nWhites are the least supportive of race-conscious policies, while African Americans are the most supportive of them. Latinos and Asian Americans take intermediate stances in their opinions of these policies. This pattern persists after controlling for measures of racial prejudice, class status, and other factors. Among white liberals, racial resentment predicts support for race-conscious programs only for black students. In contrast, among white conservatives, racial resentment is closely related to opposition to such programs regardless of the recipient's race.\n"}
{"id": "49152878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49152878", "title": "Richard Rosenfeld", "text": "Richard Rosenfeld\n\nRichard Rosenfeld (born December 20, 1948) is an American criminologist and Founders Professor at the University of Missouri–St. Louis.\n\nRosenfeld received his B.A. in 1972 and his Ph.D. in sociology in 1984, both from the University of Oregon.\n\nAfter working as an assistant professor of sociology at Skidmore College for four years, Rosenfeld first joined the University of Missouri–St. Louis in 1989 as an assistant professor and research fellow at their Center for Metropolitan Studies. In 2007, he was appointed Curators Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Missouri–St. Louis, and became a Founders Professor there in 2014.\n\nRosenfeld's research focuses on crime statistics and policies aimed at reducing crime, also known as crime control. In a 2014 study, Rosenfeld and his graduate student, Joshua Williams, found that most defendants in gun crime cases in St. Louis were young males with prior felony arrests, and that about 40 percent of people arrested for such crimes were never charged. His research has also found that half of all violent crime in St. Louis occurs in only 5 percent of the city's street blocks, most of which were in disadvantaged neighborhoods on the city's north side. A 2015 report authored by Rosenfeld and released by the Sentencing Project that found that there was no convincing evidence of the alleged Ferguson effect in St. Louis. In 2016, he changed his mind stating that, \"The only explanation that gets the timing right is a version of the Ferguson effect.\"\n"}
{"id": "18342819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18342819", "title": "Samenlevingscontract", "text": "Samenlevingscontract\n\nUnder Dutch law, a samenlevingscontract is a written agreement loosely translating to \"cohabitation agreement\". It has been compared to marriage, but merely governs the so-called property relationships between two or more persons who are cohabiting. It does not necessarily imply a marriage-like (or sexual) relationship exists, but the contract can include agreements about any children within the cohabitation arrangement.\n\nSince the 1980s the contract has been popular among two different groups in Dutch society: people who wanted to formalise their relationship, but did not want to marry, and people who wanted to marry but could not legally do so. With the introduction first of registered partnerships and later the broadening of marriage to include same-sex couples in the Netherlands, the need for a samenlevingscontract for the latter has become less pronounced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29887944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29887944", "title": "Sectarian violence among Christians", "text": "Sectarian violence among Christians\n\nSectarian violence among Christians has been noted from the time of the first Christian schisms to the present day.\n\nAndrew Stephenson describes late antiquity as \"one of the darkest periods in the history of Christianity\" characterizing as mingling the evils of \" worldly ambition, false philosophy, sectarian violence and riotous living.\" Constantine initially persecuted the Arians but eventually ceased the persecution and declared himself a convert to their theology. Sectarian violence became more frequent and more intense during the reign of Constantius II. When Paul, the orthodox bishop of Constantinople, was banished by imperial decree, a riot broke out that resulted in 3000 deaths. Paul was deposed five times before finally being strangled by imperial decree. Monks in Alexandria were the first to gain a reputation for violence and cruelty. Although less frequent than in Antioch and Constantinople, sectarian disturbances also racked Antioch. At Ephesus, a fight broke out in a council of bishops resulting in one of them being murdered. Gibbon's assessment was that \"the bonds of civil society were torn asunder by the fury of religious factions.\" Gregory of Nazianzus lamented that the Kingdom of heaven had been converted into the \"image of hell\" by religious discord.\n\nThere are at present two completely opposite views about the personality of Athanasius. While some scholars praise him as an orthodox saint with great character, others see him as a power-hungry politician who employed questionable ecclesiastical tactics. Richard Rubenstein and Timothy Barnes have painted a less than flattering picture of the saint. One of the allegations against him involves suppression of dissent through violence and murder.\n\nFollowing the abortive effort by Julian the Apostate to restore paganism in the empire, the emperor Valens—himself an Arian—renewed the persecution of Nicene hierarchs. However, Valen's successor Theodosius I effectively wiped out Arianism once and for all among the elites of the Eastern Empire through a combination of imperial decree, persecution, and the calling of the Second Ecumenical Council in 381, which condemned Arius anew while reaffirming and expanding the Nicene Creed. This generally ended the influence of Arianism among the non-Germanic peoples of the Roman Empire.\n\nThe Circumcellions were fanatical bands of predatory peasants that flourished in North Africa in the 4th century. At first they were concerned with remedying social grievances, but they became linked with the Donatist sect. They condemned property and slavery, and advocated canceling debts and freeing slaves.\n\nDonatists prized martyrdom and had a special devotion for the martyrs, rendering honours to their graves. The Circumcellions had come to regard martyrdom as the true Christian virtue, and thus disagreed with the Episcopal see of Carthage on the primacy of chastity, sobriety, humility, and charity. Instead, they focused on bringing about their own martyrdom—by any means possible. They survived until the fourth century in Africa, when their desire for martyrdom was fulfilled due to persecution.\n\nIn 451, Pope Leo I urged Anatolius to convene an ecumenical council in order to set aside the 449 Second Council of Ephesus, better known as the \"Robber Council\". The Council of Chalcedon was highly influential and marked a key turning point in the Christological debates that broke apart the church of the Eastern Roman Empire in the 5th and 6th centuries.\nSeverus of Antioch is said to have stirred up a fierce religious war among the population of Alexandria, resulting in bloodshed and conflagrations (Labbe, v. 121). To escape punishment for this violence, he fled to Constantinople, supported by a band of two hundred Non-Chalcedonian monks. Anastasius, who succeeded Zeno as emperor in 491, was a professed Non-Chalcedonian, and received Severus with honor. His presence initiated a period of fighting in Constantinople between rival bands of monks, Chalcedonian and Non, which ended in AD 511 with the humiliation of Anastasius, the temporary triumph of the patriarch Macedonius II, and the reversal of the Non-Chalcedonian cause (Theophanes, p. 132). At the Council of Constantinople in 518, Syrian monks placed the responsibility for the slaughter of 350 Chalcedonian monks and the appropriation of church vessels on Severus' shoulders. The associated theological disputes, political rivalry, and sectarian violence produced a schism that persists to this day between Chalcedonian and non-Chalcedonian churches.\n\nJonathan Barker cited the Albigensian Crusade, launched by Pope Innocent III against followers of Catharism, as an example of Christian state terrorism. The 20-year war led to an estimated one million casualties. The Cathar teachings rejected the principles of material wealth and power as being in direct conflict with the principle of love. They worshiped in private houses rather than churches, without the sacraments or the cross, which they rejected as part of the world of matter, and sexual intercourse was considered sinful, but in other respects they followed conventional teachings, reciting the Lord's prayer and reading from Biblical scriptures. They believed that the Saviour was a \"heavenly being merely masquerading as human to bring salvation to the elect, who often have to conceal themselves from the world, and who are set apart by their special knowledge and personal purity\".\n\nCathars rejected the Old Testament and its God, whom they named Rex Mundi (Latin for \"king of the world\"), whom they saw as a blind usurper who demanded fearful obedience and worship and who, under the most false pretexts, tormented and murdered those whom he called \"his children\" They proclaimed that there was a higher God—the True God—and Jesus was his messenger. They held that the physical world was evil and created by Rex Mundi, who encompassed all that was corporeal, chaotic and powerful; the second god, the one whom they worshipped, was entirely disincarnate: a being or principle of pure spirit and completely unsullied by the taint of matter – He was the god of love, order and peace. According to Barker, the Albigenses had developed a culture that \"fostered tolerance of Jews and Muslims, respect for women and women priests, the appreciation of poetry, music and beauty, [had it] been allowed to survive and thrive, it is possible the Europe might have been spared its wars of religion, its witch-hunts and its holocausts of victims sacrificed in later centuries to religious and ideological bigotry\". When asked by his followers how to differentiate between heretics and the ordinary public, Abbe Arnaud Amalric, head of the Cistercian monastic order, simply said \"Kill them all, God will recognize his own!\".\n\nHistorically, some Catholic countries once persecuted Protestants as heretics. For example, the substantial Protestant population of France (the Huguenots) was expelled from the kingdom in the 1680s following the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. In Spain, the Inquisition sought to root out not only Protestantism but also crypto-Jews and crypto-Muslims (\"moriscos\"); elsewhere the Papal Inquisition held similar goals.\nIn most places where Protestantism is the majority or \"official\" religion, there have been examples of Catholics being persecuted. In countries where the Reformation was successful, this often lay in the perception that Catholics retained allegiance to a 'foreign' power (the Papacy), causing them to be regarded with suspicion. Sometimes this mistrust manifested itself in Catholics being subjected to restrictions and discrimination, which itself led to further conflict. For example, before Catholic Emancipation in 1829, Catholics were forbidden from voting, becoming MPs or buying land in Ireland.\n\n, bigotry and discrimination in employment are usually restricted to a few places where extreme forms of religion are the norm, or in areas with a long history of sectarian violence and tension, such as Northern Ireland (especially in terms of employment; however, this is dying out in this jurisdiction, thanks to strictly-enforced legislation. Reverse discrimination now takes place in terms of employment quotas which are now applied). In places where more \"moderate\" forms of Protestantism (such as Anglicanism or Episcopalianism) prevail, the two traditions do not become polarized against each other, and usually co-exist peacefully. Especially in England, sectarianism is nowadays almost unheard of. However, in Western Scotland (where Calvinism and Presbyterianism are the norm) sectarian divisions can still sometimes arise between Catholics and Protestants. In the early years following the Scottish Reformation there was internal sectarian tension between Church of Scotland Presbyterians and 'High Church' Anglicans, the former regarding the latter as having retained too many attitudes and practices from the pre-Reformation Catholic era.\n\nFollowing the onset of the Protestant Reformation, a series of wars were waged in Europe starting circa 1524 and continuing intermittently until 1648. Although sometimes unconnected, all of these wars were strongly influenced by the religious change of the period, and the conflict and rivalry that it produced. According to Miroslav Volf, the European wars of religion were a major factor behind the \"emergence of secularizing modernity\".\n\nThe Low Countries have a particular history of religious conflict which had its roots in the Calvinist reformation movement of the 1560s. These conflicts became known as the Dutch Revolt or the Eighty Years' War. By dynastic inheritance, the whole of the Netherlands (including present day Belgium) had come to be ruled by the kings of Spain. Following aggressive Calvinist preaching in and around the rich merchant cities of the southern Netherlands, organized anti-Catholic religious protests grew in violence and frequency.\n\nThe French Wars of Religion (1562–98) is the name given to a period of civil infighting and military operations, primarily fought between French Catholics and Protestants (Huguenots). The conflict involved the factional disputes between the aristocratic houses of France, such as the House of Bourbon and House of Guise (Lorraine), and both sides received assistance from foreign sources. \n\nThe Massacre of Vassy in 1562 is generally considered to be the beginning of the Wars of Religion and the Edict of Nantes at least ended this series of conflicts. During this time, complex diplomatic negotiations and agreements of peace were followed by renewed conflict and power struggles.\n\nAt the conclusion of the conflict in 1598, Huguenots were granted substantial rights and freedoms by the Edict of Nantes, though it did not end hostility towards them. The wars weakened the authority of the monarchy, already fragile under the rule of Francis II and then Charles IX, though it later reaffirmed its role under Henry IV.\n\nThe St. Bartholomew's Day massacre in 1572 was a targeted group of assassinations, followed by a wave of Roman Catholic mob violence, both directed against the Huguenots (French CalvinistProtestants), during the French Wars of Religion. The massacre began two days after the attempted assassination of Admiral Gaspard de Coligny, the military and political leader of the Huguenots. Starting on 23 August 1572 (the eve of the feast of Bartholomew the Apostle) with murders on orders of the king of a group of Huguenot leaders including Coligny, the massacres spread throughout Paris. Lasting several weeks, the massacre extended to other urban centres and the countryside. Modern estimates for the number of dead vary widely between 5,000 and 30,000 in total.\n\nThe massacre also marked a turning point in the French Wars of Religion. The Huguenot political movement was crippled by the loss of many of its prominent aristocratic leaders, as well as many re-conversions by the rank and file, and those who remained were increasingly radicalized. Though by no means unique, it \"was the worst of the century's religious massacres.\" Throughout Europe, it \"printed on Protestant minds the indelible conviction that Catholicism was a bloody and treacherous religion\".\n\nPope Gregory XIII sent the leader of the massacres a Golden Rose, and said that the massacres \"gave him more pleasure than fiftyBattles of Lepanto, and he commissioned Vasari to paint frescoes of it in the Vatican\". The killings have been called \"the worst of the century's religious massacres\", and led to the start of the \"fourth war\" of the French Wars of Religion.\n\nSince the 14th century there has been sectarian conflict of varying intensity between Roman Catholics and Protestants in Ireland. This religious sectarianism is connected to a degree with nationalism. Northern Ireland has seen inter-communal conflict for more than four centuries and there are records of religious ministers or clerics, the agents for absentee landlords, aspiring politicians, and members of the landed gentry stirring up and capitalizing on sectarian hatred and violence back as far as the late eighteenth century (See 'Two Hundred Years in the Citadel')\n\nThis has been particularly intense in Northern Ireland since the 17th century. There are records of religious ministers or clerics, politicians, and members of the landed gentry stirring up and capitalizing on sectarian hatred and violence back as far as the late eighteenth century.\n\nWilliam Edward Hartpole Lecky, an Irish historian, wrote \"If the characteristic mark of a healthy Christianity be to unite its members by a bond of fraternity and love, then there is no country where Christianity has more completely failed than Ireland\".\n\nLutz and Lutz cited the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland as terrorism; \"The draconian laws applied by Oliver Cromwell in Ireland were an early version of ethnic cleansing. The Catholic Irish were to be expelled to the northwestern areas of the island. Relocation rather than extermination was the goal.\" Daniel Chirot has argued that genocide was originally the goal, inspired by the Biblical account of Joshua and the genocide following the Battle of Jericho:\n\nSteve Bruce, a sociologist, wrote \"The Northern Ireland conflict is a religious conflict. Economic and social considerations are also crucial, but it was the fact that the competing populations in Ireland adhered and still adhere to competing religious traditions which has given the conflict its enduring and intractable quality\". Reviewers agreed \"Of course the Northern Ireland conflict is at heart religious\".\n\nJohn Hickey wrote \"Politics in the North is not politics exploiting religion. That is far too simple an explanation: it is one which trips readily off the tongue of commentators who are used to a cultural style in which the politically pragmatic is the normal way of conducting affairs and all other considerations are put to its use. In the case of Northern Ireland the relationship is much more complex. It is more a question of religion inspiring politics than of politics making use of religion. It is a situation more akin to the first half of seventeenth‑century England than to the last quarter of twentieth century Britain\".\n\nThe period from 1969 to 2002 is known as \"The Troubles\". Nearly all the people living in Northern Ireland identified themselves as belonging to either the Protestant or the Catholic community. People of no religion and non-Christian faiths are still considered as belonging to one of the two \"sects\" along with churchgoers. In this context, \"Protestants\" means essentially descendants of immigrants from Scotland and England settled in Ulster during or soon after the 1690s; also known as \"Loyalists\" or \"Unionist\" because they generally support politically the status of Northern Ireland as a part of the United Kingdom. \"Catholics\" means descendants of the pre-1690 indigenous Irish population; also known as \"Nationalist\" and \"Republicans\"; who generally politically favour a united Ireland.\n\nReactions to sectarian domination and abuse have resulted in accusations of sectarianism being levelled against the minority community. It has been argued, however, that those reactions would be better understood in terms of a struggle against the sectarianism that governs relations between the two communities and which has resulted in the denial of human rights to the minority community.\n\nThere are organizations dedicated to the reduction of sectarianism in Northern Ireland. The Corrymeela Community of Ballycastle operates a retreat centre on the northern coast of Northern Ireland to bring Catholics and Protestants together to discuss their differences and similarities. The Ulster Project works with teenagers from Northern Ireland and the United States to provide safe, non-denominational environments to discuss sectarianism in Northern Ireland. These organizations are attempting to bridge the gap of historical prejudice between the two religious communities.\n\nNorthern Ireland has introduced a Private Day of Reflection, since 2007, to mark the transition to a post-[sectarian] conflict society, an initiative of the cross-community Healing through Remembering organisation and research project.\n\nThe Act of Supremacy of 1534 declared the English crown to be 'the only supreme head on earth of the Church in England' in place of the pope. Any act of allegiance to the latter was considered treasonous because the papacy claimed both spiritual and political power over its followers. It was under this act that saints Thomas More and John Fisher were executed and became martyrs to the Catholic faith.\n\nThe Act of Supremacy (which asserted England's independence from papal authority) was repealed in 1554 by Henry's daughter Queen Mary I (who was a devout Catholic) when she reinstituted Catholicism as England's state religion. Another Act of Supremacy was passed in 1559 under Elizabeth I, along with an Act of Uniformity which made worship in Church of England compulsory. Anyone who took office in the English church or government was required to take the Oath of Supremacy; penalties for violating it included hanging and quartering. Attendance at Anglican services became obligatory—those who refused to attend Anglican services, whether Roman Catholics or Protestants (Puritans), were fined and physically punished as recusants.\n\nIn the time of Elizabeth I, the persecution of the adherents of the Reformed religion, both Anglicans and Protestants alike, which had occurred during the reign of her elder half-sister Queen Mary I was used to fuel strong anti-Catholic propaganda in the hugely influential Foxe's Book of Martyrs. Those who had died in Mary's reign, under the Marian Persecutions, were effectively canonised by this work of hagiography. In 1571 the Convocation of the Church of England ordered that copies of the \"Book of Martyrs\" should be kept for public inspection in all cathedrals and in the houses of church dignitaries. The book was also displayed in many Anglican parish churches alongside the Holy Bible. The passionate intensity of its style and its vivid and picturesque dialogues made the book very popular among Puritan and Low Church families, Anglican and Protestantnonconformist, down to the nineteenth century. In a period of extreme partisanship on all sides of the religious debate, the exaggeratedly partisan church history of the earlier portion of the book, with its grotesque stories of popes and monks, contributed to fuel anti-Catholic prejudices in England, as did the story of the sufferings of several hundred Reformers (both Anglican and Protestant) who had been burnt at the stake under Mary and Bishop Bonner.\n\nAnti-Catholicism among many of the English was grounded in the fear that the pope sought to reimpose not just religio-spiritual authority over England but also secular power of the country; this was seemingly confirmed by various actions by the Vatican. In 1570, Pope Pius V sought to depose Elizabeth with the papal bull \"Regnans in Excelsis\", which declared her a heretic and purported to dissolve the duty of all Elizabeth's subjects of their allegiance to her. This rendered Elizabeth's subjects who persisted in their allegiance to the Catholic Church politically suspect, and made the position of her Catholic subjects largely untenable if they tried to maintain both allegiances at once.\n\nElizabeth's persecution of Catholic Jesuit missionaries led to the executions of many priests such as Edmund Campion. Although at the time of their deaths, they were considered traitors to England, they are now considered martyrs by the Catholic Church.\n\nLater several accusations fueled strong anti-Catholicism in England including the Gunpowder Plot, in which Guy Fawkes and other Catholic conspirators where accused of planning to blow up the English Parliament while it was in session.\n\nSectarianism in Glasgow takes the form of religious and political sectarian rivalry between Roman Catholics and Protestants. It is reinforced by the Old Firm rivalry between the football clubs: Rangers F.C. and Celtic F.C. Members of the public appear divided on the strength of the relationship between football and sectarianism.\n\nAnti-Catholicism reached a peak in the mid nineteenth century when Protestant leaders became alarmed by the heavy influx of Catholic immigrants from Ireland and Germany. Some believed that the Catholic Church was the Whore of Babylon in the Book of Revelation.\n\nIn the 1830s and 1840s, prominent Protestant leaders, such as Lyman Beecher and Horace Bushnell, attacked the Catholic Church as not only theologically unsound but an enemy of republican values. Some scholars view the anti-Catholic rhetoric of Beecher and Bushnell as having contributed to anti-Irish and anti-Catholic mob violence.\n\nBeecher's well-known \"Plea for the West\" (1835) urged Protestants to exclude Catholics from western settlements. The Catholic Church's official silence on the subject of slavery also garnered the enmity of northern Protestants. Intolerance became more than an attitude on 11 August 1834, when a mob set fire to an Ursuline convent in Charlestown, Massachusetts.\n\nThe resulting \"nativist\" movement, which achieved prominence in the 1840s, was whipped into a frenzy of anti-Catholicism that led to mob violence, the burning of Catholic property, and the killing of Catholics. This violence was fed by claims that Catholics were destroying the culture of the United States. Irish Catholic immigrants were blamed for spreading violence and drunkness.\nIn the late nineteenth century southern United States evangelical Protestants used a wide range of terror activities, including lynching, murder, attempted murder, rape, beating, tar-and-feathering, whipping, and destruction of property, to suppress competition from black Christians (who saw Christ as the saviour of the black oppressed), Mormons, Native Americans, foreign-born immigrants, Jews, and Catholics.\n\nEarly Mormon history is marred by many instances of violent persecution, which has helped shape the faith's views toward violence. The first significant violent persecution occurred in Missouri. Mormons tended to vote as a bloc there, wielding \"considerable political and economic influence,\" often unseating local political leadership and earning long-lasting enmity in the frontier communities. These differences culminated in the Missouri Mormon War and the eventual issuing of an executive order (since called the extermination order within the LDS community) by Missouri governor Lilburn Boggs, which declared that \"the Mormons must be treated as enemies, and must be exterminated or driven from the State.\" Three days later, a renegade militia unit attacked a Mormon settlement at Haun's Mill, resulting in the death of 18 Mormons and no militiamen. The extermination order was not formally rescinded until 1976.\n\nIn Nauvoo, Illinois, persecutions were often based on the alleged tendency of Mormons to \"dominate community, economic, and political life wherever they landed.\" The city of Nauvoo had become the largest in Illinois, the city council was predominantly Mormon, and the Nauvoo Legion (the Mormon militia) continued to grow. Other issues of contention included plural marriage, freedom of speech, the anti-slavery views expressed by Smith during his 1844 presidential campaign, and Smith's teachings on the deification of man. After the destruction of the press of the \"Nauvoo Expositor\", Smith was arrested and incarcerated in Carthage Jail where he was killed by a mob on June 27, 1844. The persecution in Illinois became so severe that most of the residents of Nauvoo fled across the Mississippi River in February 1846.\n\nEven after Mormons established a community hundreds of miles away in the Salt Lake Valley in 1847, anti-Mormon activists in Utah Territory convinced U.S. President James Buchanan that the Mormons in the territory were rebelling against the United States; critics pointed to the Mountain Meadows massacre and plural marriage as signs of the rebellion. In response, President Buchanan sent one-third of the American standing army in 1857 to Utah in what is known as the Utah War.\n\nThe Mountain Meadows massacre of September 11, 1857 was widely blamed on the church's teachings of blood atonement and other anti-United States rhetoric by LDS Church leaders during the Utah War. The widely publicized massacre was a mass killing of Arkansan emigrants by a Mormon militia led by prominent Mormon leader John D. Lee, who was later executed for his role in the killings. After escalating rumors that some of the emigrants had participated in early Mormon persecution, the militia conducted a siege, and when the emigrants surrendered, the militia killed men, women, and children in cold blood, adopted some of the surviving children, and attempted a cover-up.\nThough widely connected with the blood atonement doctrine by the United States press and general public, there is no direct evidence that the massacre was related to \"saving\" the emigrants by the shedding of their blood (as they had not entered into Mormon covenants); rather, most commentators view it as an act of intended retribution. Young was accused with either directing the massacre, or with complicity after the fact. However, when Brigham Young was interviewed on the matter and asked if he believed in blood atonement, he replied, \"I do, and I believe that Lee has not half atoned for his great crime.\" He said \"we believe that execution should be done by the shedding of blood instead of by hanging,\" but only \"according to the laws of the land\".\n\nAn example used by some to illustrate the alleged practice blood atonement is the 1866 murder of the former-slave, Thomas Coleman (or Colburn), who was in good standing as a member of the LDS Church. As Mormon historian D. Michael Quinn has documented, Coleman was apparently secretly courting a white Mormon woman. The two were discovered together behind the old Arsenal (on what is now Capitol Hill in Salt Lake) on December 11 and the group hit Coleman with a large rock. Using his own bowie knife, his attackers slit his throat so deeply from ear to ear that he was nearly decapitated, as well as slicing open his right breast, in what some believe was a mimicry of penalties illustrated in the temple ritual. Not all of Coleman's wounds correlated with the temple ritual, however, since he was also castrated. A pre-penciled placard was then pinned to his corpse stating, \"NOTICE TO ALL NIGGERS - TAKE WARNING - LEAVE WHITE WOMEN ALONE.\" A grave was dug and Coleman's body was buried less than three hours after its discovery. Less than twelve hours after that, Judge Elias Smith, first cousin of Joseph Smith, appointed George Stringham (a Mormon ruffian and vigilante with ties to Porter Rockwell, Jason Luce, and William Hickman) as the foreman of the Coroner's Jury; they briefly met and summarily dismissed the case as a crime that was committed either by a person or by persons unknown to the jury, ending all official inquiry into the murder.\n\nIt has been suggested that the ritualistic elements involved in the execution of Coleman’s murder may have been in response to a public sermon made three years earlier by Brigham Young on March 3, 1863. In this sermon, Young states, “I am a human being, and I have the care of human beings. I wish to save life, and have no desire to destroy life. If I had my wish, I should entirely stop the shedding of human blood.” Following this statement, however, Young makes a statement regarding interracial relations in which he continues, \"Shall I tell you the law of God in regard to the African race? If the white man who belongs to the chosen seed mixes his blood with the seed of Cain, the penalty, under the law of God, is death on the spot. This will always be so.\" Young continues his sermon by condemning whites for their abuse of slaves with the proclamation, “for their abuse of that race, the whites will be cursed, unless they repent.”\n\nWith regard to Coleman's murder, LDS apologists point out that the practice of \"blood atonement\" is said to apply to \"endowed Mormons who apostatized\". Coleman was a member in good standing and was not endowed, suggesting that his death may have actually been the result of racism.\n\nOne of the examples cited by critics of the church is a set of murders in Springville, Utah of individuals who, according to historical documents and court records, were \"very questionable characters.\" Judge Elias Smith stated in regard to the case: \"We have carefully examined all the evidence furnished by a remarkably accurate stenographic reporter, and can only conclude that evidence before the court goes to show' that Durfee, Potter and two of the Parrishes got into a row about matters best, if not only, known to themselves, and for that Potter and two Parrishes were killed.\"\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, approximately one-sixth of the population of the United States was Roman Catholic. Anti-Catholicism was widespread in the 1920s; anti-Catholics, including the Ku Klux Klan, believed that Catholicism was incompatible with democracy and that parochial schools encouraged separatism and kept Catholics from becoming loyal Americans. The Catholics responded to such prejudices by repeatedly asserting their rights as American citizens and by arguing that they, not the nativists (anti-Catholics), were true patriots since they believed in the right to freedom of religion.\n\nWith the rise of the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) in the 1920s, anti-Catholic rhetoric intensified. The Catholic \"Church of the Little Flower\" was first built in 1925 in Royal Oak, Michigan, a largely Protestant area. Two weeks after it opened, the Ku Klux Klan burned a cross in front of the church.\n\nSectarianism in Australia is a historical legacy from the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nAlthough the First Crusade was initially launched in response to an appeal from Byzantine EmperorAlexios I Komnenosfor help in repelling the invading Seljuq Turks from Anatolia, one of the lasting legacies of the Crusades was to \"further separate the Eastern and Western branches of Christianity from each other.\"\n\nThe Siege of Constantinople (also called the Fourth Crusade) occurred in 1204; it destroyed parts of the capital of the Byzantine Empire as it was confiscated by Western European and Venetian Crusaders.\n\nAfter the fall of Constantinople, the Crusaders inflicted a savage sacking on the city for three days, during which many ancient and medieval Roman and Greek works were either stolen or destroyed. Despite their oaths and the threat of excommunication, the Crusaders systematically violated the city's holy sanctuaries, destroying, or stealing all they could lay hands on; nothing was spared.\n\nThe Massacre of the Latins occurred in Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire, in 1182. It was a large-scale massacre of the \"Latin\" (Roman Catholic) merchants and their families, who at that time dominated the city's maritime trade and financial sector. Although precise numbers are unavailable, the bulk of the Latin community, estimated at over 60,000 at the time, was wiped out or forced to flee. The Genoese and Pisan communities especially were decimated, and some 4,000 survivors were sold as slaves to the Turks.\n\nThe civil wars in the Balkans which followed the breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s have been heavily tinged with sectarianism. Croats and Slovenes have traditionally been Catholic, Serbs and Macedonians Eastern Orthodox, and Bosniaks and most Albanians Muslim. Religious affiliation served as a marker of group identity in this conflict, despite relatively low rates of religious practice and belief among these various groups after decades of communism. Some scholars doubt to religion had much of influence in that events.\n\n"}
{"id": "11324138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324138", "title": "T-ough Press", "text": "T-ough Press\n\nT-ough Press is a \"subterranean\" publishing house based in the southern suburbs of Moscow. It was established by Alex Kervey.\n\nKervey started the business when he found he could not get his own translations published. Existing publishers had either never heard of such writers as Hunter S Thompson, or found the material offensive. He has used young translators in their twenties to publish a range of texts from Western Europe and America, such as:\n\nIn 2006 T-ough Press faced prosecution for publishing Home's \"Come Before Christ and Murder Love\" and White's \"Road Rage!/Satan! Satan! Satan!\". They were accused of pornography and insulting Christian values. Their premises were also fire bombed. This has been ascribed to fascists. The National Bolsheviks have taken particular exception to \"Blow Job\" which satirises their blend of right-left politics. Legal and political pressure has also delayed the appearance of Home's \"Tainted Love\" and \"Slow Death\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31673251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31673251", "title": "Tamikrest", "text": "Tamikrest\n\nTamikrest (Tamashek for \"junction, alliance, the future\") is a group of musicians who belong to the Tuareg people. The band was founded in 2006 in Tamanrasset, Algeria. They mix traditional African music with Western rock and pop influences and sing in Tamashek. Main songwriter and leader of the band is Ousmane Ag Mossa.\n\nTheir music is characterized by electric guitars and vocals, youyous, bass, drums, djembé and other percussion instruments.\n\nWhen Tamikrest was founded in 2006, the musicians were all in their early twenties. They originate from the region around Tamanrasset, a city in southern of Algeria. All of them visited the \"Les enfants de l'Adrar school\" in Tinzawaten, a small oasis in the middle of the desert, which was funded by European foundations. It was there that the future members of Tamikrest got their basic musical training. Their youth was shaped by the civil war that took place between 1990 and 1995. Many family members and friends died while the Tuareg fought for their autonomy. When new riots broke out in 2006, Ousmane Ag Mossa and his friend Cheick Ag Tiglia decided not to fight with weapons, but to call attention to the Tuareg’s cause with musical means.\n\nIn their youth they played the traditional music of the Kel Tamasheq (as the Tuareg call themselves) and the songs of the Tuareg band Tinariwen, who already mixed African traditional music with western rock music in the eighties. Through the internet and mp3 culture, the Tamikrest members got to know bands and musicians like Jimi Hendrix, Bob Marley, Pink Floyd and Mark Knopfler who influenced the shaping of the special Tamikrest sound as well.\n\nA chance meeting with the American-Australian band Dirtmusic at the \"Festival Au Désert\" in 2008, which took place in Essakane (about 50 miles west of Timbuktu), led to a friendship and musical cooperation. When Dirtmusic recorded their second album, \"BKO\", in a studio in Bamako (the capital of Mali) in 2010, Tamikrest were invited to play on that album. Chris Eckman (member of Dirtmusic and The Walkabouts) also produced \"Adagh\", Tamikrest's first album. In 2010, both bands toured Europe together and played festivals like Sziget and \"Orange Blossom Special\", the latter organized by their label Glitterhouse Records. In October 2010, Chris Eckman produced Tamikrest's second album \"Toumastin\", which was released in April 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1175103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1175103", "title": "Technology governance", "text": "Technology governance\n\nTechnology governance means the governance, i.e., the steering between the different sectors—state, business, and NGOs—of the development of technology. The concept is based on the notion of innovation and of techno-economic paradigm shifts according to the theories of Joseph A. Schumpeter, Christopher Freeman, Carlota Perez, etc. \n\nThe idea is that certain periods in economic development are dominated by a paradigm-leading technology that influences through finance mechanisms, organizational change, greater returns, etc. Also, the economic and social sphere to such an extent that an entire paradigm is coined by them. Currently, that paradigm-leading technology is information and communications technology (ICT). According to Innovation Theory (and empirical findings as well), states, regions, or other communities do not automatically promote, or even go into, these key technologies, but rather need to be guided there by active intervention, by the State sector (in close cooperation and coordination). Technology governance, (as a field of scholarly inquiry and academic instruction) is therefore about how this is theoretically and practically done, which institutions are optimal for such a venue, how the education of administrators have to look like if they are going to have the administrative capacity to deal with such matters, etc.\n\nTechnology governance is a public policy concept; it is not to be confused with inner-corporate arrangements of organisation (corporate governance) and IT arrangements, sometimes called \"Information Technology Governance\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21444702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21444702", "title": "The Pirate Bay trial", "text": "The Pirate Bay trial\n\nThe Pirate Bay trial is a joint criminal and civil prosecution in Sweden of four individuals charged for promoting the copyright infringement of others with the torrent tracking website The Pirate Bay. The criminal charges were supported by a consortium of intellectual rights holders led by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), who filed individual civil compensation claims against the owners of The Pirate Bay.\n\nSwedish prosecutors filed charges on 31 January 2008 against Fredrik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm, and Peter Sunde, who ran the site; and Carl Lundström, a Swedish businessman who through his businesses sold services to the site. The prosecutor claimed the four worked together to administer, host, and develop the site and thereby facilitated other people's breach of copyright law. Some 34 cases of copyright infringements were originally listed, of which 21 were related to music files, 9 to movies, and 4 to games. One case involving music files was later dropped by the copyright holder who made the file available again on the website of The Pirate Bay. In addition, claims for damages of 117 million kronor (US$13 million) were filed. The case was decided jointly by a professional judge and three appointed lay judges.\n\nThe trial started on 16 February 2009 in the Stockholm District Court, Sweden. The hearings ended on 3 March 2009 and the verdict was announced at 11:00 AM on Friday 17 April 2009: Peter Sunde, Fredrik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm and Carl Lundström were all found guilty and sentenced to serve one year in prison and pay a fine of 30 million SEK (about €2.7 million or US$3.5 million). All the defendants appealed the verdict, and in November 2010 the appeal court shortened the prison sentences, but increased damages.\n\nOn 1 February 2012, the Supreme Court of Sweden refused to hear an appeal in the case, prompting the site to change its official domain name from thepiratebay.org to thepiratebay.se.\n\nThe Pirate Bay is a Swedish website that indexes and tracks BitTorrent files. It bills itself as \"the galaxy's largest BitTorrent tracker\" and is ranked as the 73rd most popular website by Alexa Internet. The website is funded primarily with advertisements shown next to torrent listings. Initially established in November 2003 by the Swedish anti-copyright organization Piratbyrån (\"The Piracy Bureau\") it has been operating as a separate organization since October 2004.\n\nOn 31 May 2006 the Swedish police organized a raid on The Pirate Bay in 12 different premises, confiscating 186 servers and causing it to go offline for three days. Upon reopening, the site's number of visitors more than doubled, the increased popularity attributed to greater exposure through the media coverage. The raid, alleged by The Pirate Bay to be politically motivated and under pressure from the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), was reported as a success by the MPAA in the immediate aftermath but with the website being restored within days and file sharing firmly in focus in the Swedish media, with \"TorrentFreak\" calling the raid \"highly unsuccessful\".\n\nThe police, however, conducted a preliminary investigation on the confiscated material and by interrogating associated people. In late 2007, a four thousand page report was produced by the prosecutor in preparation for a trial, containing email and SMS messages, payment documents, police interrogation records, and screenshots of The Pirate Bay site.\n\nOn 31 January 2008 Swedish prosecutors filed charges against four individuals they associated with The Pirate Bay for \"promoting other people's infringements of copyright laws\". One of the artists represented by IFPI, Max Peezay, withdrew from the case, decreasing his distributor's compensation demand by 120 000 SEK. Peezay hadn't been asked about participating in the case, and he in fact supports file sharing for private use. Peezay noted however that being unfamiliar with the site, his withdrawal shouldn't be interpreted as a sign of support for their case. The trial began in February 2009. The evidence used in the trial was based on the material acquired in the 2006 raid.\n\nThe Swedish national television broadcaster Sveriges Television considered the trial important and provided a live online feed of the entire trial, which had never been done in Sweden before. The live audio and archive sections done in cooperation with Dagens Eko were part of the 24 Direkt program, which became one of their most viewed online content during the trial, second only to Melodifestivalen. The trial was also broadcast live by Swedish public radio.\n\nThe defendants referred to the trial as a \"Spectrial\", which is a portmanteau of \"trial\" and \"spectacle\", and set up a blog to inform users on the event. The term has also caught on with some bloggers and supporters.\n\nOn 16 February 2009 defense lawyer Per E. Samuelson stressed to the court that \"file sharing services can be used both legally and illegally\". Samuelson argued that \"it is legal to offer a service that can be used in both a legal and illegal way according to Swedish law\" and that The Pirate Bay's services \"can be compared to making cars that can be driven faster than the speed limit\". Defense attorney Jonas Nilsson insisted that \"the individual Internet users who use Pirate Bay services... must answer for the material they have in their possession or the files they plan to share with others.\"\n\nOn 17 February 2009 (the second day of the trial) half of the charges against The Pirate Bay were dropped. According to defense lawyer Per Samuelson, \"This is a sensation. It is very rare to win half the case in just one and a half days and it is clear the prosecutor took strong note of what we said yesterday\". Peter Danowsky, legal counsel for the music companies, stated \"It's a largely technical issue that changes nothing in terms of our compensation claims and has no bearing whatsoever on the main case against The Pirate Bay. In fact it simplifies the prosecutor’s case by allowing him to focus on the main issue which is the making available of copyrighted works.\" The prosecutor was unable to prove that the .torrent files brought as evidence were actually using The Pirate Bay's tracker. Furthermore, prosecutor Håkan Roswall did not adequately explain the function of DHT which allows for so-called \"trackerless\" torrents. These shortcomings in the evidence resulted in prosecutor Håkan Roswall having to drop all charges relating to \"assisting copyright infringement\", leaving \"assisting making available\" as the remaining charge. Roswall stated that \"everything related to reproduction will be removed from the claim\". Sanna Wolk, a doctor in law and researcher at Stockholm University observed that \"this is not surprising, at least for those who follow the matter. We knew that The Pirate Bay wasn't making any copies directly\".\n\nOn the third day of The Pirate Bay trial, prosecution witnesses claimed damages on the basis that it should have obtained worldwide licenses for the content it distributed. Where content wasn't officially available, a Beatles song, for example, it should be charged at 10 times the going rate. This calculation underlines the prosecution's demand for 117 million SEK (US$12.9 million, €10.2 million) in compensation and damages.\n\nOn day three of the trial, defense attorney Per Samuelson presented an argument later dubbed the \"King Kong defense\":\n\nSamuelson was referring to a real Pirate Bay user who posts via the username \"King Kong\", who Samuelson hypothesizes could be in Cambodia. He used this scenario to illustrate that Lundström had no control over the actions undertaken by Pirate Bay users. His main objection was that although the prosecutor had said that the accused would be tried individually, he had not once referred to them individually, but always as \"them\", \"they\" or \"Pirate Bay\". Samuelson said the persons behind The Pirate Bay could not be held collectively responsible for a crime committed by other identifiable individuals, such as \"King Kong\".\n\nThe term \"King Kong defense\" was quickly popularized by blogs, file sharing news feeds, and media reports on the Pirate Bay trial. It has been compared to the Chewbacca defense from the TV series \"South Park\", citing a reference to the \"jungles of Cambodia\" as \"the kind of extraneous detail that makes the Chewbacca defense hilarious\".\n\nIn its April verdict, the court found that because the defendants indeed had collective responsibility for the site and knew that some torrent files on it pointed to copyrighted material, the EU directive did not apply.\n\nOn 19 February 2009, the fourth day of the trial, Fredrik was questioned several times. It came to the court’s attention that Tobias Andersson, a future witness in the case, was in the court where he was later asked to leave the room. When it was movie industry lawyer Monique Wadsted’s turn, she introduced new evidence without warning. Noting the breach of protocol, the presiding judge asked if it was acceptable for the court to be considering evidence that was not already presented pre-trial.\n\nDay five of the proceedings saw conflict as the prosecution again attempted to introduce evidence that had not been shared with both the court and the defense during pre-trial. The defense objected vehemently with defense lawyer Peter Althin equating the tactic to something out of the old Perry Mason TV show. “Suddenly, the door opens and in walks an entirely new witness.” The presiding judge stopped the case to deliberate the matter and found in favor of the defense, instructing the prosecution to immediately hand over all material they planned to use.\n\nThe prosecution and the defense spent the remainder of the day delivering conflicting portrayals of the Pirate Bay. The prosecution attempted to show the Pirate Bay as an immensely profitable business that made its money helping others violate copyright law. The defense attempted to show the Pirate Bay as nothing more than a search engine, no different from Google and thus subject to the same protections.\n\nOn days seven to nine, the court heard expert witnesses called by the prosecution and the defense. They cited contradicting academic research on the effects of file sharing on sales in the music and film industry globally\nand regionally in Sweden.\n\nThe four operators of the site were convicted by Stockholm district court on 17 April 2009 and sentenced to one year in jail each and a total of 30 million Swedish kronor (approximately US$3.5 million, €2.7 million) in fines and damages. The court found that the defendants were all guilty of accessory to crime against copyright law, strengthened by the commercial and organized nature of the activity. The court, however, never presented its corpus delicti (that is, it never attempted to prove that a crime was committed, but it succeeded in proving that someone was an accessory to that crime). Prosecutor Håkan Roswall cited in his closing arguments a Supreme Court of Sweden opinion that a person holding the jacket of someone committing battery can be held responsible for the battery. In its verdict, the court stated that \"responsibility for assistance can strike someone who has only insignificantly assisted in the principal crime\", referring to a Supreme Court precedent where an accountant was sentenced for accessory to crime even though his actions were not criminal per se. The court rejected the charge of preparation to crime against copyright law. The lawyers of all four defendants appealed the verdict, with Lundström's lawyers filing their appeal immediately on the day the verdict was given. The entertainment industry lawyers appealed as well, on reintroducing the dismissed charge and on the method of calculating damages, which in their opinion does not fully cover the lost income.\n\nFile sharing researcher Daniel Johansson called the ruling the most important file sharing related verdict in Europe so far, comparing it to the Napster verdict in the US. The sentence is the longest ever awarded under Swedish copyright law, and the prison time and damage compensation high by Swedish standards. While most legal experts expected the court to find the defendants guilty, they were surprised at the harsh verdict. Sociology of law professor Håkan Hyden criticised the exceptionally harsh sentence on both the prison time and large amount of compensation awarded, and some legal analysts expect the punishments to be radically lowered in higher courts.\n\nThe international public following the trial received the verdict with varying opinions. Some high-profile copyright holders publicly defended the verdict, with former Beatles member Paul McCartney commenting to the BBC that \"if you get on a bus, you've got to pay. And I think it's fair, you should pay for your ticket.\" Mark Mulligan from Forrester Research considered the verdict very important for music industry PR, and copyright holder organisations indeed praised it as a landmark verdict. Likewise, The European Association of Internet Service Providers welcomed the verdict, commending judicial resolution to copyright infringement issues over internet filtering or three strikes policies. \"The Economist\" went further by criticising that the sentence might not have been strong enough to act as a deterrent for setting up similar services in the future.\n\nSome copyright holders took a different view however: Snow Patrol vocalist Gary Lightbody commented in interview that \"they shouldn't have been jailed... the punishment doesn't fit the crime.\" In a column in Dagens Nyheter, composer and professor Roger Wallis, who was involved in the trial, condemned the verdict and its effects as paralyzing Swedish IT innovation on new ways of doing business.\n\nAt the end of May 2009, Swedish Minister for Culture Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth made a speech to The Swedish Society of Popular Music Composers, expressing her opinion that \"I was among those pleased about the Pirate Bay verdict.\" In accordance with the ministerstyre in the Constitution of Sweden, it is unconstitutional for ministers to influence ongoing cases, and many political commentators criticised the minister's statement. Max Andersson, member of the Committee on the Constitution in the Parliament of Sweden, requested the committee to review the incident. The committee pointed out the independence of judicial bodies and the government, and reminded ministers to exercise caution in their statements, but saw no need for further action or comment.\n\nOver 25,000 people joined the Swedish Pirate Party in the ten days following the guilty verdict, raising its membership to over 40,000 members and making it the fourth-largest Swedish party by membership count at the time, and the party with the largest youth organisation.\nIn Stockholm and other cities, the Pirate Party organized protests against the court's verdict. Over 1000 protesters gathered in the streets of Stockholm the following day. Protest leader Malin Littorin-Ferm said \"we young people have a whole platform on the Internet, where we have all our social contacts—it is there that we live. The state is trying to control the Internet and, by extension, our private lives\". Pirate Party Chairman Rickard Falkvinge claimed at the protests that \"the establishment and the politicians have declared war against our whole generation,\"\n\nFollowing the conviction, the IFPI demanded that Swedish internet service providers block The Pirate Bay, but the ISPs have refused to do this. Jon Karlung, managing director of Bahnhof, stated that \"we will not censor sites for our customers; that is not our job. I am against anything that contradicts the principle of a free and open Internet.\"\n\nSeveral Swedish file sharing sites have closed voluntarily with The Pirate Bay verdict as a deterrent and as a result of further police investigation.\n\nOn 20 April 2009, Anonymous mobilized \"Operation Baylout\", which included a DDoS attack on the IFPI International website, causing the site to go offline for a few hours. They released a statement asking supporters of file-sharing to refrain from making any industry-related media purchases during the months of April and May.\n\nTwo artists originally mentioned in the indictment, Advance Patrol and Max Peezay, later went on to release their work on The Pirate Bay in spring 2009.\n\nGottfrid Svartholm, one of the TPB founding members, was arrested on 2 September 2012, in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, while evading Swedish authorities following the 2009 verdict and conviction. A group of Anonymous hackers claimed to have attacked websites and internet systems belonging to the Cambodian government in the wake of the arrest. Although at the time of the arrest an extradition treaty was non-existent between Cambodia and Sweden, negotiations were entered into for the purpose of expelling Svartholm.\n\nFredrik Neij, the last of the website's founders to be detained after dodging the 2009 conviction for copyright violations, was detained and later arrested in November 2014 in Nong Khai, Thailand. Swedish officials were brought in and Thai officials stated he would be extradited within the month.\n\nIn mid 2008 after the indictment had been served, it was discovered that the main police investigator in the preliminary investigation had started working for one of the plaintiffs, Warner Brothers, before the date of the indictment. Sunde's lawyer Peter Althin questioned the neutrality and reliability of the preliminary investigation in the event that the investigator had entered the new employment during the investigation, and suspected the job might have been a reward for good work in The Pirate Bay investigation. Althin believed that the investigation might have to be redone if that was the case. The prosecutor Håkan Roswall responded that it wouldn't have posed problems for the investigation because the police were working under his directive, and the investigator's superior officer brushed off the incident as nothing remarkable. Warner Brothers commented merely that the investigator hadn't received any compensation during the time he worked for the Swedish police. According to Roswall, this type of concurrent employment would not be an individual incident, but that the decision of possible bias would be for the court to decide, and that the investigator is not a key witness in the case. The investigator could not be reached during the trial and was taken off the witness list.\n\nOnly days before the trial began, one of the three appointed lay judges was discovered to be a member of a composers' association that among others works on protecting copyright. After discussing with judge Tomas Norström the problem the membership could pose to the trial, the composer recused himself from acting as a lay judge in the case and he was replaced with another.\n\nIn the aftermath of the trial, presiding judge Tomas Norström, the same judge that ordered the 2006 raid on The Pirate Bay's servers, came under scrutiny after allegations of bias. Sveriges Radio P3 News organized an investigation that found on 23 April that Norström had several engagements with organisations interested in intellectual property issues. Peter Danowsky, Monique Wadsted and Henrik Pontén from the prosecution side are also members of one of the organisations, the Swedish Copyright Association (SFU). Wadsted commented that all intellectual property lawyers in Stockholm are part of the association. According to Norström, the organisations are involved in discussion about copyright, while the earlier lay judges's organisation advocates further copyright protection. Norström however also sits in the board of the Swedish Association for the Protection of Industrial Property, which along with the SFU are the Swedish branches of International Association for the Protection of Industrial Property (AIPPI) and Association littéraire et artistique internationale (ALAI). AIPPI's website states that \"the objective of AIPPI is to improve and promote the protection of intellectual property on both an international and national basis\", and ALAI's president Victor Nabhan commented that his organisation is dedicated mostly to defending copyright holders' interests. Several legal experts have commented that the judge should not have taken the case because of the potential conflict of interest or should at least have mentioned it in the beginning of the trial, and that there are grounds for a retrial. The district court itself however defended judges' membership in these types of organisations, and it is not uncommon for lay judges to even be sitting municipal politicians.\n\nFollowing the discovery on 23 April, Peter Sunde's lawyer Peter Althin announced that he would request for a retrial. The Swedish Parliamentary Ombudsman decided not to investigate the bias since the question had already been requested to be taken up in the Svea Court of Appeal. The court of appeal received the case on 18 May and assigned it to judge Ulrika Ihrfelt. On the question of bias, Ihrfelt stated she was a member of the Swedish Copyright Association in 2005 when working in the supreme court, but didn't consider herself biased because of this. The president of the court was requested to reassign the case, and on 20 May it was reassigned to three judges from another court of appeal department. The district court along with the prosecutor formally defended judges' memberships in these types of organisations as a way to gain knowledge on copyright issues. The court of appeal considered it a priority case, and ruled on 25 June that the judge's memberships do not constitute bias and that there would be no retrial in the district court.\n\nDuring the preparation for the appeal trial, bias allegations were also made on the court of appeal. In Swedish appeal proceedings for criminal cases where the sentence is greater than a fine, the court usually consists of three professional judges and two lay judges. Judge Ihrfelt, again appointed to the case, informed the parties in mid September 2009 that one of the appointed lay judges is working for the music streaming service Spotify, which is partly owned by record companies. The lay judge himself didn't feel biased because of his work, but prosecuting attorney Danowsky commented that anyone both judging the case and working for Spotify has a conflict of interest. Later on the same week, defense attorney Samuelsson submitted allegations to the appeal court of Ihrfelt and another professional judge being biased for their membership in the same interest groups judge Norström was investigated for. In the court's opinion, the judges' memberships did not constitute bias, whereas the lay judges's impartiality was questionable and he was dismissed. The court's decision was appealed, and in May 2010 the supreme court affirmed the appeal court's decision on the bias question.\n\nThe criminal charges against The Pirate Bay are directly supported by the following prosecution witnesses:\n\nAfter sentencing, the defendants decided to appeal the verdict of the first trial. The appeal started on 28 September 2010 and concluded on 15 October 2010. On 26 November 2010, the verdict was announced. In the verdict, the court found that “The Pirate Bay has facilitated illegal file sharing in a way that results in criminal liability for those who run the service.” Under the verdict, the sentences of three of the defendants would be reduced and the total fines would be increased. The fourth defendant, Gottfrid Svartholm, was not present at the time due to medical reasons. His time for appeal expired on 14 October 2011, and the original 2009 sentence became legally binding for him.\n\nThe sentence from the appeal traded jail time for increased fines. After the initial trial, each defendant was to serve a year of jail time and pay fines just under one million dollars each. After the appeal, Fredrik Neij was sentenced to 10 months, Peter Sunde to eight months, and Carl Lundstrom to four months in prison. The Svea Court of Appeal decided to grant all Nordic companies their full request in compensation for copyright infringement due to The Pirate Bay, with outside companies being granted smaller gains in compensation. The total fine for the three defendants was increased from 32 million Kronor to 46 million Kronor (US$6.5 million). Each defendant was issued different sentences because of individual contribution toward facilitating illegal file sharing. Instead of issuing all defendants the same sentence, they were each judged on their contribution and sentenced accordingly. However, the fine is to be paid by the three defendants present at the sentencing. The verdict was appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\nOn 18 February 2009 the Norwegian socialist party Red began a global campaign in support of The Pirate Bay and filesharers worldwide that lasted until 1 May. The campaign was timed to coincide with the trial. Through the website filesharer.org individuals were encouraged to upload their photographs, as \"mugshots\", to \"let the music and movie industry know who the file-sharers are.\" The site encourages participation urging people to \"Upload a picture of yourself and show them what a criminal looks like!\". Red politician Elin Volder Rutle is the initiator of the campaign and she states to the media that \"If the guys behind Pirate Bay are criminals, then so am I, and so are most other Norwegians.\"\n\nThe website of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) was hacked and defaced with a message to Håkan Roswall, the prosecutor in the trial. The website subsequently became inaccessible, possibly owing to a denial-of-service attack. It was shortly brought back online. Peter Sunde, one of the defendants, responded to news of the attack with the comment \"Our case is going quite well as most of you have noticed. In the light of that it feels very bad that people are hacking web sites which actually puts us in a worse light than we need to be in.\" To the perpetrators of the attack he also pleaded, \"If anyone involved in the acts going on is reading this—please stop, for our sake. We don’t need that kind of support.\"\n\nDuring the ninth day of the trial, after the testimony of professor emeritus Roger Wallis had been completed, he was asked according to Swedish court procedures if he wanted any compensation for appearing in court. He declined this but commented to the court that they were welcome to send flowers to his wife if they wished. This was rejected by the judge but quickly caught on amongst supporters of The Pirate Bay following the proceedings via live feeds and other Internet services. A channel was started on the EFnet network on IRC and a website followed and by the evening flowers for almost SEK 40.000 (US$5,000, €3,000) had been ordered for the couple through Internet florists such as Interflora and local florists.\n\nThe website of independent record company Bonnier Amigo was hacked on March 1. A similar message to the one on the hacked IFPI website was published, but this time directed to prosecuting attorney Peter Danowsky representing the record labels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38382581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38382581", "title": "Under-23 athletics", "text": "Under-23 athletics\n\nUnder 23 is a category of athletics in which athletes compete under from 20 to 22 years on 31 December of the year of the competition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39040183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39040183", "title": "Vaddanam", "text": "Vaddanam\n\nVaddanam is an ornament worn around waist typically in the south Indian territory. It is traditionally worn during festival days and major family occasions like marriages as a status symbol in \"south Indian\".\n\nSouth Indian marriages are known to be rich in terms of the amount of gold worn by the bride. Vaddanam is one of the heaviest ornaments worn by a bride. A South Indian marriage is rarely seen with out a vaddanam on the bride's waist.\n"}
{"id": "3635515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3635515", "title": "Water for Life Decade", "text": "Water for Life Decade\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly, in December 2003, proclaimed the years 2005-2015 as the International Decade for Action ‘Water for Life’. Its primary goal is to promote efforts to fulfill international commitments made on water and water related issues . in the \"United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)\" by 2015.\n\nWaterforlife \n\nIn order to help to achieve the internationally agreed water-related goals contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration, and in Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation of the World Summit of Sustainable Development (WSSD) the Decade focuses on water-related issues at all levels and on the implementation of programmes and projects, and the furtherance of cooperation at all levels.\n\nDuring the first UN Decade on Water from 1981–1990, it is estimated that more than a billion people gained access to safe drinking water. \n\nThe primary goal of the 'Water for Life' Decade is to promote efforts to fulfill international commitments made on water and water-related issues by 2015.\n\nThese commitments include the Millennium Development Goals to reduce by half the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water by 2015 and to stop unsustainable exploitation of water resources. At the World Summit in Johannesburg in 2002, two other goals were adopted: to aim to develop integrated water resource management and water efficiency plans by 2005 and to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people who do not have access to basic sanitation.\n\nWorld Water Day, 22 March 2005, marked the official commencement of the ‘Water for Life’ Decade.\n\nCentral water related themes include: food, health, environment, disaster prevention, energy, transboundary water issues, scarcity, culture, sanitation, pollution and agriculture. As women play a central role in water provision and management, a special emphasis will be placed on ensuring the participation and involvement of women in these development efforts.\n\nAn up-to-date Calendar of Events has the latest on the activities planned throughout the Decade.\n\nAt the national level, it is expected that each country will take its own approach to organize activities around the ‘Water for Life’ Decade. All activities that promote public awareness of issues related to the ‘Water for Life’ theme are encouraged, including the organization of conferences, seminars, expositions and other such public events.\n\nUN-Water is coordinating the International Decade for Action ‘Water for Life’, 2005-2015. UN-Water is the United Nations system-wide inter-agency gathering of all relevant agencies, departments and programmes involved with water-related issues.UN-Water is the inter-agency mechanism for the implementation of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation water-related provisions and the Millennium Development Goals concerning freshwater. The terms of reference and modalities of work of UN-Water cover the elements of a detailed inter-agency plan for addressing water as well as sanitation issues, and include mechanisms for interacting with non-United Nations system stakeholders.\n\nThe chairmanship of UN-Water rotates and is currently held by the United Nations University (UNU), while the Secretariat for UN-Water is based at the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA). Within UNDESA, the Water, Natural Resources and Small Island Developing States Branch in the Division for Sustainable Development will be responsible for the ‘Water for Life’ Decade.\nFor more info on interagency coordination, please see \n\nTwo initiatives have been launched by UN-Water to support the 'Water for Life' Decade:\n\n"}
{"id": "8680698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8680698", "title": "Åsa Waldau", "text": "Åsa Waldau\n\nÅsa M. Waldau is the leader of a Christian sect in Knutby, Sweden. She was born October 26, 1965. She is one of originally four sisters, the youngest of whom was the victim of the Knutby murder on January 10, 2004.\n\nIn 1985 Åsa Waldau had one month's theological training in a Pentecostal bible school in Stockholm. In 1990 Waldau (then Björk) was hired by the Pentecostal church in Uppsala as a children's pastor. However, because of her actions and because she divorced, she was forced to resign. She then moved to Knutby, where she lived with the Waldau family, whose young son Patrik (born 1975) she had befriended in Uppsala. They married in June 1994.\n\nWaldau was hired part-time by the Pentecostal congregation of Knutby in March 1992. Kim Wincent, whom she had met in bible school in 1985, was a pastor there. Waldau's position rapidly increased in power. There were claims of prophecies about a \"disrespected servant of the Lord\" who would be the cause of a \"fire from Knutby.\" She traveled widely in Swedish Pentecostal communities, and induced many young people to move to Knutby. In 1997 she convinced Helge Fossmo and his wife Heléne to join the Knutby community as a pastor.\n\nThe Philadelphia congregation in Knutby was established in 1921 during the Pentecostal revival in Sweden connected with Lewi Pethrus. Åsa Waldau was the granddaughter of Pethrus' successor Willis Säwe, but her mother did not raise her in the faith. She was born again, and entered the Pentecostal tradition, but she also underwent influences from Ulf Ekman and his Livets Ord movement and from Word of Faith.\n\nIn Waldau's preaching there is an emphasis on sanctification and on forgiveness of sins which is a base of Christian belief. She believes that believers can stop sinning in this life on earth. The cult of approximately 100 members has a very hierarchical internal organization. Reminiscent of a cell church, the members are organized in teams, with a team leader they are supposed to ask for spiritual guidance. At the top of the hierarchy are six pastors, but not all of them are employed full-time.\n\nWaldau's views of the role of women may seem contradictory. Within a marriage it is the husband who should lead his wife and take decisions. The wife is to obey her husband, and should ask her husband's permission, even for mundane things like shopping trips.\n\nWaldau's distinguishing doctrine is that she rejects the identification of the biblical metaphor of the Bride of Christ with the Church. She teaches publicly that the Bride of Christ is an actual person, whom Christ will wed, while the guests at this wedding are identified as the believers. In private, she claims that she is the Bride of Christ herself, defectors have told.\n\nThe eschatology is pretribulationist. Waldau expected that she would be taken away before the Rapture, in a manner reminiscent of the dormition of the Virgin or the assumption of Mary, to be united with her Bridegroom.\n\nIn 2004 Helge Fossmo's nanny Sara Svensson confessed to having killed Fossmo's second wife Alexandra (Åsa Waldau's sister), under the influence of Fossmo. Fossmo had claimed to get text messages from God on his cellphone, which told him Svensson would not get mercy from God if she did not kill Alexandra and their neighbour Daniel Linde. (Fossmo was having an affair with this neighbour's wife, Annette Linde, who was also Åsa Waldau's sister-in-law. At the same time Fossmo had an affair with Sara Svensson herself that he exploited to manipulate her into the deed.)\n\nIn 2004 Fossmo was arrested, prosecuted and sentenced to life in jail for conspiracy of murder and Svensson was sentenced to psychiatric care. Although Waldau was a close associate of Fossmo, there was no evidence that she had been involved in the murder plot and she was not prosecuted.\n\nAfter the murders, Waldau continued to be very reclusive. She refused to be interviewed by newspapers and only appeared without speaking in the TV4 documentary \"A Fall from Grace\". Her first appearance was at the trial in May 2004, speaking in court as a relative of her sister who had been murdered. She admitted that she had 'tested' whether she might be the Bride of Christ, an idea she attributed to Helge Fossmo.\n\nIn September 2004 Waldau was in a one-hour interview program on Sveriges Television by Stina Lundberg Dabrowski. The public's reaction was quite negative; Waldau came across as 'cold' and 'unfeeling'.\n\nIn March 2005 Waldau inspired the sect to open a spa. In November she released a music CD containing songs from the church of Knutby. In December she appeared on a discussion panel at the celebration of 175 year Aftonbladet, introduced there by Jan Guillou as Sweden's most maligned person in modern times.\n\nIn June 2006 the talk-show host Lennart Persson invited Waldau to his last installment of \"Debatt\" on national television, where she got into exchanges with Janne Josefsson and with Bert Karlsson. Bert Karlsson later that year invited her to his own program on the cable channel TV8. In October 2007 he published Waldau's autobiography, \"Kristi brud: vem kan man lita på?\" (English: \"Bride of Christ: whom can one trust?\").\n\n"}
