{"id": "3532036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3532036", "title": "Algerian Six", "text": "Algerian Six\n\nThe Algerian Six were six Bosnian men (five of whom had dual nationality), all born in Algeria, who were imprisoned without charges at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba from January 2002. They later filed for \"habeas\" corpus in United States federal court and their case reached the United States Supreme Court in 2008. It ruled in \"Boumediene v. Bush\" that detainees and foreign nationals had rights to file for \"habeas corpus\" in federal courts. Following his review of their cases, a US District Court judge ordered five of the Bosnians to be released based on insufficient evidence.\n\nIn 2009, the US released the men. Three were flown to Bosnia to reunite with their families under 'protective custody.' The US refused to let Boudmediene return to Bosnia and he feared returning to Algeria because of potential retaliation; France offered to let him settle there. He was joined in Provence by his wife and children.\n\nDistrict Judge Leon recommended the continued detention of Belkacem, but his attorneys appealed his case. In 2010, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals overturned Leon's decision. They determined that Belkacem was not a member of al Qaeda and should be released.\n\nAfter the men initially fell under U.S. suspicion, the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina arrested them in 2001 and tried them, but later released them for lack of evidence. They were illegally turned over to US intelligence officials in January 2002 in Sarajevo and transported to Guantanamo. They were detained there without charges by the US for the years following. The Bosnian authorities were formally condemned for their actions by the Human Rights Chamber of Bosnia Herzegovina, the relevant Bosnian court at the time.\n\nIn late 2004, the six men had been sent before Combatant Status Review Tribunals (CSRTs) of three United States military officers. The CSRTs concluded that each of the six men was properly classified as an \"enemy combatant\" based on classified evidence. The CSRTs were criticized for applying a definition of \"enemy combatant\" that was so broad that it could include a \"little old lady in Switzerland,\" who donated money to a charity in Afghanistan that, without her knowledge, funded al Qaeda.\n\nWolfgang Petritsch, a UN diplomat and former High Representative for Bosnia-Herzegovina, said the US had threatened the UN to withdraw their men from the mission in 2002 if he protested against the transfer of the six men out of Bosnia at that time.\n\nThe six men were:\nThe U.S. Government alleged that the six native Algerian men living in Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina were associated with Abu Zubaydah and a plan to bomb the U.S. Embassy in Sarajevo.\nThe United States chargé d'affaires reportedly told the prime minister of Bosnia that the U.S. would withdraw its personnel and cut diplomatic relations if Bosnia did not arrest and investigate the Algerian Six. The Algerian Six were arrested by Bosnian authorities within the week, were investigated fully, and tried for the alleged plot to bomb the U.S. and British embassies in Sarajevo. The Supreme Court of Bosnia released all six men for lack of evidence against them.\n\nThe Human Rights Chamber of the Bosnian Judiciary explicitly ruled that the government must take all steps to prevent forcible deportation of the men. But, upon being released from jail, they were handed over to U.S. military police and transported overseas to its Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba. Wolfgang Petritsch, the international community's top official in Bosnia at the time, recalls being told by Bosnian leaders that the U.S. applied a lot of pressure on Bosnia to be allowed to take the Algerian Six to Guantanamo. Petritsch said that the US officials had told him they would remove their support for an international mission he was leading if Bosnia did not comply with their request. According to documents filed by the detainee's American lawyers in their U.S. federal court habeas action, Christopher Hoh, the then U.S. charge d'affaires, had told then Bosnian Prime Minister Alija Behmen that the U.S. would cut all diplomatic relations if the men were not arrested. Amnesty International recalled in 2002 that the Bosnian Supreme Court explicitly opposed this transfer of the men to US authorities.\n\nThe \"Tipton Three\", three British citizens detained in Guantanamo who were released in March 2004, wrote a 131-page account of their experiences. They wrote about the Bosnians:\n\nBy Bosnians we mean six Algerians who were unlawfully taken from Bosnia to Guantanamo Bay. They told us how they had won their Court case in Bosnia. As they walked out of Court, Americans were there and grabbed them and took them to Camp X-Ray, January 20, 2002. They arrived five days after us. They were treated particularly badly. They were moved every two hours. They were kept naked in their cells. They were taken to interrogation for hours on end. They were short shackled for sometimes days on end. They were deprived of their sleep. They never got letters, nor books, nor reading materials. The Bosnians had the same interrogators for a while as we did and so we knew the names which were the same as ours and they were given a very hard time by those. They told us that the interrogators said if they didn't cooperate that they could ensure that something would happen to their families in Algeria and in Bosnia.\n\nFollowing the capture of the six men by the United States, the Bosnian government argued for their release from Guantanamo Bay. CSRT hearings were held in 2004. But, Associated Press library of Guantanamo Bay detainee dossiers show transcripts of four of the six men telling their tribunal officers that interrogators did not believe that there had ever been any substance to the U.S. allegations that they had planned to bomb the U.S. embassy. Clive Stafford Smith, legal director of the organization Reprieve, which represents numerous detainees, wrote in \"The Guardian\", that the CSRTs applied such a broad definition of \"enemy combatant\" that it could include a \"little old lady in Switzerland,\" who donated money to a charity in Afghanistan that then, without her knowledge, funded al Qaeda. (See Transcript of Motion to Dismiss before United States District Court Judge Joyce Hens Green at pp. 25–26 (December 1, 2004) \"Rasul v. Bush\", Docket No. 02-02999)\n\nSince July 2004, the firm of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr has had a team working with the Center for Constitutional Rights in their suit against the federal government on behalf of the Algerian Six. In 2007, the team of Melissa Hoffer, Stephen Oleskey, Rob Kirsch, Mark C. Fleming, Lynne Campbell Soutter, Jeffrey Gleason, Lauren Brunswick, and Allyson Portney traveled to Guantanamo to offer further services to the Bosnians. Hoffer delivered a speech about their case at the 17th Concours International de Plaidoiries. She said that during her interviews, the Bosnians described having suffered horrific abuse at Guantanamo.\n\nIn 2006, the \"Washington Post\" published a profile of the six Bosnians.\nThe profile reported that during their Administrative Review Board hearings, the US officials dropped the earlier allegation that they had been plotting to bomb the US embassy in Sarajevo. The article reports the speculation that the men continued to be held because the Bush administration was unwilling to admit it had held them for four years without substantial evidence.\n\nAccording to the \"Washington Post,\" Guantanamo intelligence analysts said they continued to detain the men because of intelligence including the following: \n\nThe \"Washington Post\" reports Bush administration negotiators trying to secure face-saving deals with Bosnia and Algeria. According to the article:\n\nThe article notes that, although the Bush administration had declined to discuss any evidence they may have against the men, Lieutenant Commander J. D. Gordon said:\n\nThere was no mistake in originally detaining these individuals as enemy combatants. Their detention was directly related to their combat activities as determined by an appropriate Defense Department official before they were ever transferred to Guantanamo.\"\n\nIn October 2008, the US Supreme Court in \"Boumediene v. Bush\" (2008) (under which \"Al Odah v. United States\" was consolidated), ruled that the detainees and other foreign nationals had the right to file habeas corpus suits in federal courts and were covered by habeas protections of the US constitution.\n\nFollowing that decision, Judge Richard J. Leon of the Federal District Court in Washington DC ruled that the government had not provided sufficient evidence for detention and that all of the men except Bensayah Belkacem should be released. Leon ordered the release of five of the Algerian-Bosnians held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and the continued detention of Belkacem, the sixth.\n\nThe Court ruled: \n\nTo allow enemy combatancy to rest on so thin a reed would be inconsistent with this court's obligation; the court must and will grant their petitions and order their release. This is a unique case. Few if any others will be factually like it. Nobody should be lulled into a false sense that all of the ... cases will look like this one.\n\nOn March 3, 2009, \"El Khabar\" reported that, before the men were released, they had to sign documents that they would not sue the US government for their kidnapping in Bosnia.\n\nThree of the six men were released and flown to Bosnia, leaving three in Guantanamo. Later in 2009 Boumediene was accepted by France, and Nechle went to Algeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "3416842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3416842", "title": "Amir al-Mu'minin", "text": "Amir al-Mu'minin\n\nAmir al-Mu'minin () is an Arabic title that is usually translated \"Commander of the Faithful\" or \"Leader of the Faithful\". Shias hold that the title is exclusive to Ali; though Sunnis maintain the caliph at any point in time is the bearer of the title. \n\nThe use of the title does not necessarily signify a claim to caliphate as it is usually taken to be, but described a certain form of activist leadership which may have been attached to a caliph but also could signify a level of authority beneath that. The Ottoman sultans, in particular, made scant use of it. Moreover, the term was used by men who made no claim to be caliphs.\n\nAmir al-Mu'minin is latinized as , hence Italian , French , Spanish and Portuguese , in Byzantine Greek: \"amermoumnês\".\n\nIt is also translated as \"Prince of the believers\" since \"Amir\" or \"Emir\" is also used as a princely title in states ruled by the royalty or monarchies.\n\nShias view that Ali, the son-in-law of Prophet Muhammad and the progenitor of his only continuing lineage, was given the title during Muhammad's era.\nShias believe the title is exclusive to Ali. Being called the commander of the faithful does not entail only political authority, but spiritual and religious authority as well.\n\nSunnis generally consider Umar the first person given the title, although according to several famous Sunni scholars such as Ibn al-Jawzi, Al-Dhahabi, Ibn 'Asakir, etc. the Prophet (Muhammad) called just Ali as Amir al-Muminin.\n\nBut about the first view, according to the Islamic scholar as-Suyuti (1445–1505):\nUmar ibn Abd al-Aziz asked Abu Bakr ibn Sulayman ibn Abi Hathamah what was the reason that it used to be written, \"From the Khalifah of the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace,\" in the time of Abu Bakr, then later Umar used to write at first, \"From the Khalifah of Abu Bakr.\"? Then who was the first to write, \"From the Amir al-Muminin (the Commander of the Believers)\"?\n\nHe said, \"\"Ash-Shifa, who was one of the women of the Muhajirun, told me that Abu Bakr used to write, \"From the Khalifah of the Messenger of Allah\", and Umar used to write, \"From the Khalifah of the Khalifah of the Messenger of Allah,\" until one day Umar wrote to the governor of Iraq, to send him two strong men whom he could ask about Iraq and its inhabitants. He sent to him Labid ibn Rabi'ah and Adi ibn Hatim, and they came to Madinah and entered the mosque where they found Amr ibn al-'As.\n\nThey said, \"Get permission for us (to visit) the Amir al-Muminin.\" Amr said, \"You two, by Allah, have hit upon his name!\" Then Amr went in to him and said, \"Peace be upon you, Amir al-Mu'minin.\" He said, \"What occurred to you about this name? You must explain what you have said.\" He told him and said, \"You are the amir (commander) and we are the muminun (the believers).\" Thus letters have continued to be written with that from that day.\n\nAn-Nawawi said in his Tahdhib: Adi ibn Hatim and Labid ibn Rabi'ah named him thus when they came as a deputation from 'Iraq. It has been said that al-Mughirah ibn Shu'bah named him with this name. It has also been said that 'Umar said to people, 'You are the believers and I am your amir,' and so he was called Amir al-Muminin, and before that he was known as the Khalifah of the Khalifah of the Messenger of Allah, but they changed from that expression because of its length.\n\nMu'awiyyah ibn Qurrah said: It used to be written 'From Abu Bakr the Khalifah of the Messenger of Allah,' and then when it was 'Umar ibn al-Khattab they wanted to say, 'The Khalifah of the Khalifah of the Messenger of Allah.' 'Umar said, 'This is lengthy.' They said, 'No. But we have appointed you as amir over us, so you are our amir.' He said, 'Yes, and you are the believers, and I am your amir.' Then it became written Amir al-Muminin.\n\n\nThe Kitáb-i-Íqán, the primary theological work of the Bahá'í Faith, applies the title Commander of the Faithful to Ali, the son-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nA similar (but not the same) title was afforded to the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth's monarch as the Grand Duke of Lithuania by the Lipka Tatars, who used to speak a Turkic language. The title of sire was used \"Vatad\", as in \"homeland\" (\"Vatan\"), which meant \"defender of the rights of Muslims in non-Islamic countries\". The Grand Duchy was viewed as a new homeland. Vatad was viewed as variation on the name Vytautas in Lithuanian or Władysław in Polish, which was known in the diplomatic notes between the Golden Horde and the countries of Poland (Lechistan) and Lithuania (Lipka) as \"Dawood\". One can claim that, since Casimir the Great, the Polish-Lithuanian monarch as the King of Poland was tasked with the protection of the rights of the Jews and other non-Christians.\n\nIn Margaret Atwood's 1985 dystopian novel, The Handmaid's Tale, leaders of the fictional Republic of Gilead, a militaristic theonomy, are referred to as \"Commanders of the Faithful.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1891807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1891807", "title": "Armistice of Mudros", "text": "Armistice of Mudros\n\nThe Armistice of Mudros (), concluded on 30 October 1918, ended the hostilities, at noon the next day, in the Middle Eastern theatre between the Ottoman Empire and the Allies of World War I. It was signed by the Ottoman Minister of Marine Affairs Rauf Bey and the British Admiral Somerset Arthur Gough-Calthorpe, on board HMS \"Agamemnon\" in Moudros harbor on the Greek island of Lemnos.\n\nAs part of several conditions to the armistice, the Ottomans surrendered their remaining garrisons outside Anatolia, as well as granted the Allies the right to occupy forts controlling the Straits of the Dardanelles and the Bosporus; and the right to occupy the same \"in case of disorder\" any Ottoman territory in the event of a threat to their security. The Ottoman army including the Ottoman air force was demobilized, and all ports, railways, and other strategic points were made available for use by the Allies. In the Caucasus, the Ottomans had to retreat to within the pre-war borders between the Ottoman and the Russian Empires.\n\nThe armistice was followed by the occupation of Constantinople (Istanbul) and the subsequent partitioning of the Ottoman Empire. The Treaty of Sèvres (10 August 1920), which was signed in the aftermath of World War I, was never ratified by the Ottoman Parliament in Istanbul (the Ottoman Parliament was disbanded by the Allies on 11 April 1920 due to the overwhelming opposition of the Turkish MPs to the provisions discussed in Sèvres). It was later superseded by the Treaty of Lausanne (24 July 1923) following the Turkish victory at the Turkish War of Independence (1919–1923) which was conducted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in Ankara (established on 23 April 1920 by Mustafa Kemal Pasha and his followers, including his colleagues in the disbanded Ottoman military, and numerous former MPs of the closed Ottoman Parliament in Istanbul.)\n\nWorld War I took a chaotic turn in 1918 for the Ottoman Empire. With Yudenich's Russian Caucasus Army deserting after the collapse of the Russian Empire, the Ottomans regained ground in Armenia and even pushed into formerly Russian-controlled Caucasus with, at first, Vehip Pasha's Ottoman 3rd Army and, later beginning in June 1918, with Nuri Pasha's Army of Islam which excluded German officers and men. The Caucasus Campaign put the Ottomans at odds with their ally, Germany, which had been hoping to purchase Caucasus oil from the Bolshevik government in Moscow. The Ottomans wanted to establish its eastern borders The Ottoman armies advanced far into Caucasus, gathering supporters as far away as Tashkent, on the eastern side of the Caspian Sea. Additionally, with the Bolsheviks in power in Moscow, chaos spread in Persia, as the Russo-British favoring government of Ahmad Shah Qajar lost authority outside of the capital. In contrast, in Syria, the Ottomans were steadily pushed back by British forces, culminating in the fall of Damascus in October 1918. Hopes were initially high for the Ottomans that their losses in Syria might be compensated with successes in the Caucasus. Enver Pasha, one of the most influential members of the Ottoman government, maintained an optimistic stance, hid information that made the Ottoman position appear weak, and led most of the Ottoman elite to believe that the war was still winnable.\n\nDevelopments in Southeast Europe quashed the Ottoman government's hopes. The Macedonian Front, also known as the Salonika campaign, had been largely stable since 1916. In September 1918, the Allied forces (under the command of Louis Franchet d'Espèrey) mounted a sudden offensive which proved quite successful. The Bulgarian army was defeated, and Bulgaria was forced to sue for peace in the Armistice of Salonica. That undermined both the German and Ottoman cause simultaneously, as the Germans had no troops to spare to defend Austria-Hungary from the newly formed vulnerability in Southeastern Europe after the losses it had suffered in France, and the Ottomans suddenly faced having to defend Constantinople against an overland European siege without help from the Bulgarians.\n\nGrand Vizier Talaat Pasha visited Berlin, Germany, and Sofia, Bulgaria in September 1918. He came away with the understanding that the war was no longer winnable. With Germany likely seeking a separate peace, the Ottomans would be forced to do so as well. Talaat convinced the other members of the ruling party that they must resign, as the Allies would impose far harsher terms if they thought the people who started the war were still in power. He also sought out the United States to see if he could surrender to them and gain the benefits of the Fourteen Points despite the Ottoman Empire and the United States not being at war; however, the Americans never responded, as they were waiting on British advice as to how to respond that never came. On October 13, Talaat and the rest of his ministry resigned. Ahmed Izzet Pasha replaced Talaat as Grand Vizier. Two days after taking office, he sent the captured British General Charles Vere Ferrers Townshend to the Allies to seek terms on an armistice.\n\nThe British cabinet received word of the offer and were eager to negotiate a deal. The standing terms of the alliance was that the first member that was approached for an armistice should conduct the negotiations; the British government interpreted that to mean that Britain conduct the negotiations alone. The motives for this are not entirely clear, whether it was the sincere British interpretation of the alliance terms, fears that the French would insist on over-harsh demands and foil a treaty, or a desire to cut the French out of territorial \"spoils\" promised to them in the Sykes-Picot agreement. Townshend also indicated that the Ottomans preferred to deal with the British; he did not know about the American contact or that Talaat had sent an emissary to the French as well but that emissary had been slower to respond back. The British cabinet empowered Admiral Calthorpe to conduct the negotiations with an explicit exclusion of the French from them. They also suggested an armistice rather than a full peace treaty, in the belief that a peace treaty would require the approval of all of the Allied nations and be too slow.\n\nThe negotiations began on Sunday, October 27 on HMS \"Agamemnon\", a British battleship. The British refused to admit French Vice-Admiral Jean Amet, the senior French naval officer in the area, despite his desire to join; the Ottoman delegation, headed by Minister of Marine Affairs Rauf Bey, indicated that it was acceptable as they were accredited only to the British, not the French.\n\nBoth sides did not know that the other was actually quite eager to sign a deal and willing to give up some of their objectives to do so. The British delegation had been given a list of 24 demands, but were told to concede on any of them if pressed, except occupation of the forts on the Dardanelles and free passage through the Bosphorus; the British desired access to the Black Sea for the Rumanian front. Prime Minister David Lloyd George also wanted to make a deal quickly before the United States could step in; according to the diary of Maurice Hankey:\n\nThe Ottoman authorities, for their part, believed the war to be lost and would have accepted almost any demands placed on them. As a result, the initial draft prepared by the British was accepted largely unchanged; the Ottoman side did not know it could have pushed back on most of the clauses, and the British did not know they could have demanded even more. Still, the terms were largely pro-British and close to an outright surrender; the Ottoman Empire ceded the rights to the Allies to occupy \"in case of disorder\" any Ottoman territory, a vague and broad clause.\n\nThe French were displeased with the precedent; French Premier Georges Clemenceau disliked the British making unilateral decisions in so important a matter. Lloyd George countered that the French had concluded a similar armistice on short notice in the Armistice of Salonica, which had been negotiated by French General d'Esperey and that Great Britain (and Tsarist Russia) had committed the vast majority of troops to the campaign against the Ottoman Empire. The French agreed to accept the matter as closed. The Ottoman educated public, however, was given misleadingly positive impressions of the severity of the terms of the Armistice. They thought its terms were considerably more lenient than they actually were, a source of discontent later when it seemed that the Allies had violated the offered terms during the Turkish War of Independence.\n\nThe Armistice of Mudros officially brought hostilities to an end between the Allies and the Ottoman Empire. However, incursions by the Italians and Greeks into Anatolia in the name of \"restoring order\" soon came close to an outright partition of the country. The Treaty of Sèvres in 1920 officially partitioned the Ottoman Empire into zones of influence; however, the Turkish War of Independence (1919–23) saw the rejection of the treaty by Turkish nationalist forces based in Ankara, who eventually took control of the Anatolian Peninsula. Ottoman territory in Syria, Palestine, and Arabia stayed as distributed by the Treaty of Sèvres while the borders of the Turkish nation-state were set by the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923.\n\n"}
{"id": "10084305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10084305", "title": "Articles of War", "text": "Articles of War\n\nThe Articles of War are a set of regulations drawn up to govern the conduct of a country's military and naval forces. The phrase was first used in 1637 in Robert Monro's \"His expedition with the worthy Scots regiment called Mac-keyes regiment etc.\" (in the form \"Articles of warres\") and can be used to refer to military law in general. In Swedish, the equivalent term \"Krigsartiklar\", is first mentioned in 1556. However, the term is usually used more specifically and with the modern spelling and capitalisation to refer to the British regulations drawn up in the wake of the Glorious Revolution and the U.S. regulations later based on them.\n\nThroughout the Articles' existence, there were separate sets for the navy and army.\n\nThe UK's (or rather England's) first Articles of War were written for the Royal Navy. They formed the statutory provisions regulating and governing the behaviour of members of the Royal Navy. They were prominently displayed in all naval ships, and set out a list of criminal provisions which applied to members of the Royal Navy and others to whom the Act applied, in addition to the criminal law of England and Wales and any local criminal law.\n\nThe naval Articles of War were originally issued by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty in 1653 as fighting instructions after defeat at the Battle of Dungeness. Soon after the Restoration, they were converted into an Act of Parliament. After another defeat at the Battle of Toulon, Parliament amended the Articles in 1749, further tightening discipline. These Articles resulted in the execution of Admiral John Byng, despite a clear sentiment in the navy and in Parliament that he should be given some lesser punishment. In response, the 1779 amendment was the start of a gradual process of easing the more draconian punishments. The naval Articles were retained in the 1957 Naval Discipline Act but then replaced by the provisions of the tri-service Armed Forces Act 2006.\n\nThe first set of Articles of War for the British Army (English until 1707) were written (under William III (r.1689–1702), taking the place of the medieval Rules and Ordinances of War, a list of regulations issued by the king at the beginning of every expedition or campaign. The Mutiny Acts empowered the king \"de jure\" and his government \"de facto\" to govern their army by creating a set of Articles of War for each conflict. To a large degree, they were superseded by King's Regulations in force at all times. The Articles of War fell out of use by the Army when they were omitted from the Army Act 1955.\n\nOn 30 June 1775, the Second Continental Congress established 69 Articles of War to govern the conduct of the Continental Army.\n\nEffective upon its ratification in 1789, Article I, Section 8 of the United States Constitution provided that Congress has the power to regulate the land and naval forces. On 10 April 1806, the United States Congress enacted 101 Articles of War (which applied to both the Army and the Navy), which were not significantly revised until over a century later. Another code of conduct, the 1863 Lieber Code, operated during the American Civil War. On 4 June 1920, Congress enacted 121 Articles of War that went into effect on 4 February 1921 with the exception of Articles 2, 23, and 45, which became effective immediately. The military justice system then continued to operate under the Articles of War until 31 May 1951, when the Uniform Code of Military Justice came into effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "831575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=831575", "title": "Bahujan Samaj Party (Ambedkar)", "text": "Bahujan Samaj Party (Ambedkar)\n\nThe Bahujan Samaj Party (Ambedkar) was a splinter group of the Bahujan Samaj Party in Punjab and Haryana, India. The party president was Devi Dass Nahar and the general secretary was Vijay Kumar Hans (later leader of the Democratic Bharatiya Samaj Party).\n\nIn the 2002 legislative assembly elections in Punjab, BSP(A) put up 23 candidates, who together received 20,260 votes. The BSP(A) reunited with the BSP on 31 December 2003.\n\nIn 2004, after the elections of Lok Sabha, Sh. Devi Dass Nahar along with Jia Lal Nahar, Pritam Chand and Balwant Singh Sultanpur was expelled from Bahujan Samaj Party and parted ways from BSP by refloating his BSP(Ambedkar) due to differences with Narender Kashyap national general secretary of party and state president Avtar Singh Karimpuri.\n\nIn 2009 Lok Sabha elections, BSP(A) announced its support to the SAD-BJP candidates after Sukhbir Singh Badal met with Devi Dass Nahar.<ref name=\"News India, Asia, World, Sports, Business, Science / Tech, Health, Entertainment, Features 2009\"></ref>\n"}
{"id": "160438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160438", "title": "Bill of attainder", "text": "Bill of attainder\n\nA bill of attainder (also known as an act of attainder or writ of attainder or bill of pains and penalties) is an act of a legislature declaring a person or group of persons guilty of some crime and punishing them, often without a trial. As with attainder resulting from the normal judicial process, the effect of such a bill is to nullify the targeted person's civil rights, most notably the right to own property (and thus pass it on to heirs), the right to a title of nobility, and, in at least the original usage, the right to life itself. Bills of attainder passed in Parliament by Henry Vlll on 29 January 1542 resulted in the executions of a number of notable historical figures.\n\nThe use of these bills by Parliament eventually fell into disfavour due to the obvious potential for abuse and the violation of several legal principles, most importantly the right to due process, the precept that a law should address a particular form of behaviour rather than a specific individual or group, and the separation of powers.\n\nUnlike the United States Constitution, there is no specific provision prohibiting the Commonwealth Government from passing bills of attainder. However, the High Court of Australia has ruled that bills of attainder are unconstitutional, because it is a violation of the separation of powers doctrine for any body other than a Chapter III court to wield judicial power. One of the core aspects of judicial power is the ability to make binding and authoritative decisions on questions of law, that is, issues relating to life, liberty or property. The wielding of judicial power by the legislative or executive branch includes the direct wielding of power and the indirect wielding of judicial power.\n\nThe state constitutions in Australia contain few limitations on government power. Bills of attainder are considered permissible because there is no entrenched separation of powers at the state level. However, section 77 of the Constitution of Australia permits state courts to be invested with Commonwealth jurisdiction, and any state law that renders a state court unable to function as Chapter III court (Commonwealth jurisdiction) is unconstitutional. The States cannot structure their legal systems to prevent them from being subject to the Australian Constitution.\n\nAn important distinction is that laws seeking to direct judicial power (e.g. must make orders) are unconstitutional, but laws that concern mandatory sentencing, rules of evidence, non-punitive imprisonment, or tests, are constitutional.\n\nIn two cases of attempts to pass bills (in 1984 for Clifford Olson and in 1995 for Karla Homolka) to inflict a judicial penalty on a specific person, the speakers of the House and Senate, respectively, have ruled that Canadian parliamentary practice does not permit bills of attainder or bills of pains and penalties.\n\nThe word \"attainder\", meaning \"taintedness\", is part of English common law. Under English law, a criminal condemned for a serious crime, whether treason or felony (but not misdemeanour, which referred to less serious crimes), could be declared \"attainted\", meaning that his civil rights were nullified: he could no longer own property or pass property to his family by will or testament. His property could consequently revert to the Crown or to the mesne lord. Any peerage titles would also revert to the Crown. The convicted person would normally be punished by judicial execution—when a person committed a capital crime and was put to death for it, the property left behind escheated to the Crown or lord rather than being inherited by family. Attainder functioned more or less as the revocation of the feudal chain of privilege and all rights and properties thus granted.\n\nDue to mandatory sentencing, the due process of the courts provided limited flexibility to deal with the various circumstances of offenders. The property of criminals caught alive and put to death because of a guilty plea or jury conviction on a not guilty plea could be forfeited, as could the property of those who escaped justice and were outlawed; but the property of offenders who died before trial, except those killed during the commission of crimes (who fell foul of the law relating to \"felo de se\"), could not be forfeited, nor could the property of offenders who refused to plead and who were tortured to death through \"peine forte et dure\".\n\nOn the other hand, when a legal conviction did take place, confiscation and \"corruption of blood\" sometimes appeared unduly harsh for the surviving family. In some cases (at least regarding the peerage) the Crown would eventually re-grant the convicted peer's lands and titles to his heir. It was also possible, as political fortunes turned, for a bill of attainder to be reversed. This sometimes occurred long after the convicted person was executed.\n\nUnlike the mandatory sentences of the courts, acts of Parliament provided considerable latitude in suiting the punishment to the particular conditions of the offender's family. Parliament could also impose non-capital punishments without involving courts; such bills are called bills of pains and penalties.\n\nBills of attainder were sometimes criticised as a convenient way for the King to convict subjects of crimes and confiscate their property without the bother of a trial – and without the need for a conviction or indeed any evidence at all.\n\nThe first use of attainder was in 1321 against both Hugh le Despenser, 1st Earl of Winchester and his son Hugh Despenser the Younger, Earl of Gloucester. They were both attainted for supporting King Edward II during his struggle with the queen and barons.\n\nIn England, those executed subject to attainders include George Plantagenet, Duke of Clarence (1478); Thomas Cromwell (1540); Margaret Pole, Countess of Salisbury (1540); Catherine Howard (1542); Baron Thomas Seymour (1549); Duke Thomas Howard of Norfolk (1572); Earl Thomas Wentworth of Strafford (1641); Archbishop William Laud of Canterbury (1645); and the Duke James Scott of Monmouth. In the case of Catherine Howard, in 1541 King Henry VIII was the first monarch to delegate Royal Assent, to avoid having to assent personally to the execution of his wife.\n\nAfter defeating Richard III and replacing him on the throne of England, Henry VII had Parliament pass a bill of attainder against his predecessor. It is noteworthy that this bill made no mention of the Princes in the Tower, although it does declare him guilty of \"shedding of Infants blood.\"\n\nAlthough deceased by the time of the Restoration, the regicides John Bradshaw, Oliver Cromwell, Henry Ireton and Thomas Pride were served with a bill of attainder on 15 May 1660 backdated to 1 January 1649 (NS). After the committee stages, the bill passed both the Houses of Lords and Commons and was engrossed on 4 December 1660. This was followed with a resolution that passed both Houses on the same day:\n\nIn 1685, when the Duke of Monmouth landed in West England and started a rebellion in an effort to overthrow his uncle, the recently enthroned James II, Parliament passed an bill of attainder against him. After the Battle of Sedgemoor, this made it possible for King James to have the captured Monmouth put summarily to death. Though legal, this was regarded by many as an arbitrary and ruthless act.\n\nIn 1753, the Jacobite leader Archibald Cameron of Locheil was summarily put to death on the basis of a seven-year-old bill of attainder, rather than being put on trial for his recent subversive activities in Scotland. This aroused some protests in British public opinion at the time, including from people with no Jacobite sympathies.\n\nThe last use of attainder was in 1798 against Lord Edward FitzGerald for leading the Irish Rebellion of 1798.\n\nIn 1688, King James II of England (VII of Scotland), driven off by the ascent of William III and Mary II in the Glorious Revolution, came to Ireland with the sole purpose of reclaiming his throne. After his arrival, the Parliament of Ireland assembled a list of names in 1689 of those reported to have been disloyal to him, eventually tallying between two and three thousand, in a bill of attainder. Those on the list were to report to Dublin for sentencing. One man, Lord Mountjoy, was in the Bastille at the time and was told by the Irish Parliament that he must break out of his cell and make it back to Ireland for his punishment, or face the grisly process of being drawn and quartered. The parliament became known in the 1800s as the \"Patriot Parliament\".\n\nLater defenders of the Patriot Parliament pointed out that the ensuing \"Williamite Settlement forfeitures\" of the 1690s named an even larger number of Jacobite suspects, most of whom had been attainted by 1699.\n\nIn the Westminster system (and especially in the United Kingdom), a similar concept is covered by the term \"private bill\" (a bill which upon passage becomes a private Act). Note however that \"private bill\" is a general term referring to a proposal for legislation applying to a specific person; it is only a bill of attainder if it punishes them; private bills have been used in some Commonwealth countries to effect divorce. Other traditional uses of private bills include chartering corporations, changing the charters of existing corporations, granting monopolies, approving of public infrastructure and seizure of property for those, as well as enclosure of commons and similar redistributions of property. Those types of private bills operate to take away private property and rights from certain individuals, but are usually not called \"bill of pains and penalties\".\n\nThe last United Kingdom bill called a \"Pains and Penalties Bill\" was Pains and Penalties Bill 1820 and was passed by the House of Lords in 1820, but not considered by the House of Commons; it sought to divorce Queen Caroline from King George IV and adjust her titles and property accordingly, on grounds of her alleged adultery, as did many private bills dealing with divorces of private persons.\n\nIt has been reported that no bills of attainder have been passed since 1820 in the UK. Attainder as such was also a legal consequence of convictions in courts of law, but this ceased to be a part of punishment in 1870.\n\nPreviously secret British War Cabinet papers released on 1 January 2006 have shown that, as early as December 1942, the War Cabinet had discussed their policy for the punishment of the leading Nazis if captured. British Prime Minister Winston Churchill had then advocated a policy of summary execution with the use of an Act of Attainder to circumvent legal obstacles. He was dissuaded by cabinet minister Richard Law who pointed out that the United States and Soviet Union still favoured trials.\n\nBills of attainder were used through the 18th century in England, and were applied to British colonies as well. Some colonists were inspired to the American Revolution because of anger at the injustice of attainder. Although at least one American state used a bill of attainder to confiscate the property of a British loyalist (called Tories) during the war (New York, in the 1779 case of Parker Wickham), American dissatisfaction with British attainder laws resulted in their being prohibited in the U.S. Constitution ratified in 1789.\n\nThe United States Constitution forbids legislative bills of attainder: in federal law under , and in state law under . The fact that they were banned even under state law reflects the importance that the framers attached to this issue.\n\nWithin the U.S. Constitution, the clauses forbidding attainder laws serve two purposes. First, they reinforced the separation of powers, by forbidding the legislature to perform judicial or executive functions—since the outcome of any such acts of legislature would of necessity take the form of a bill of attainder. Second, they embody the concept of due process, which was partially reinforced by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. The text of the Constitution, Article I, Section 9, Clause 3 is \"No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed\".\n\nThe constitution of every state also expressly forbids bills of attainder. For example, Wisconsin's constitution Article I, Section 12 reads:\n\nContrast this with the Texas version: Article 1 (Titled Bill of Rights) Section 16, entitled \"Bills of Attainder; Ex Post Facto or Retroactive Laws: Impairing Obligation of Contracts\": \"No bill of attainder, ex post facto law, retroactive law, or any law impairing the obligation of contracts, shall be made\". It is unclear whether a contract that calls for heirs to be deprived of their estate is allowed under this law.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has invalidated laws under the Attainder Clause on only five occasions.\n\nTwo of the United States Supreme Court's first decisions on the meaning of the bill of attainder clause came after the American Civil War. In \"Ex parte Garland\", 71 U.S. 333 (1866), the court struck down a federal law requiring attorneys practising in federal court to swear that they had not supported the rebellion. In \"Cummings v. Missouri\", 71 U.S. 277 (1867), the Missouri constitution required anyone seeking a professional's license from the state to swear they had not supported the rebellion. The Supreme Court overturned the law and the constitutional provision, arguing that the people already admitted to practice were subject to penalty without judicial trial. The lack of judicial trial was the critical affront to the Constitution, the Court said.\n\nTwo decades later, however, the Court upheld similar laws. In \"Hawker v. New York\", 170 U.S. 189 (1898), a state law barred convicted felons from practising medicine. In \"Dent v. West Virginia\", 129 U.S. 114 (1889), a state law imposed a new requirement that practising physicians had to have graduated from a licensed medical school or they would be forced to surrender their license. The Court upheld both laws because, it said, the laws were narrowly tailored to focus on an individual's qualifications to practice medicine. That was not true in \"Garland\" or \"Cummings\".\n\nThe Court changed its \"bill of attainder test\" in 1946. In \"United States v. Lovett\", 328 U.S. 303 (1946), the Court confronted a federal law that named three people as subversive and excluded them from federal employment. Previously, the Court had held that lack of judicial trial and the narrow way in which the law rationally achieved its goals were the only tests of a bill of attainder. But the \"Lovett\" Court said that a bill of attainder 1) specifically identified the people to be punished; 2) imposed punishment; and 3) did so without benefit of judicial trial. As all three prongs of the bill of attainder test were met in \"Lovett\", the court held that a congressional statute that bars particular individuals from government employment qualifies as punishment prohibited by the bill of attainder clause.\n\nThe Taft–Hartley Act (enacted in 1947) sought to ban political strikes by Communist-dominated labour unions by requiring all elected labour leaders to take an oath that they were not and had never been members of the Communist Party USA, and that they did not advocate violent overthrow of the U.S. government. It also made it a crime for members of the Communist Party to serve on executive boards of labour unions. In \"American Communications Association v. Douds\", 339 U.S. 382 (1950), the Supreme Court had said that the requirement for the oath was not a bill of attainder because: 1) anyone could avoid punishment by disavowing the Communist Party, and 2) it focused on a future act (overthrow of the government) and not a past one. Reflecting current fears, the Court commented in \"Douds\" on approving the specific focus on Communists by noting what a threat communism was. The Court had added an \"escape clause\" test to determining whether a law was a bill of attainder.\n\nIn \"United States v. Brown\", 381 U.S. 437 (1965), the Court invalidated the section of the statute that criminalized a former communist serving on a union's executive board. Clearly, the Act had focused on past behaviour and had specified a specific class of people to be punished. But if this specific focus in \"Brown\" was constitutionally invalid, why was it \"not\" constitutionally invalid in \"Douds\"? (Many legal scholars assumed that the \"Brown\" case effectively, if not officially, overruled \"Douds\".) Additionally, the Court did not apply the punishment prong of its test, leaving legal scholars confused as to whether the Court still intended it to apply.\n\nThe Supreme Court emphasised the narrowness and rationality of bills of attainder in \"Nixon v. Administrator of General Services\", 433 U.S. 425 (1977). During the Watergate scandal, in 1974 Congress passed the Presidential Recordings and Materials Preservation Act, which required the General Services Administration to confiscate former President Richard Nixon's presidential papers to prevent their destruction, screen out those which contained national security and other issues which might prevent their publication, and release the remainder of the papers to the public as fast as possible. The Supreme Court upheld the law in \"Nixon\", arguing that specificity alone did not invalidate the act because the President constituted a \"class of one\". Thus, specificity was constitutional if it was rationally related to the class identified. The Court modified its punishment test, concluding that only those laws which historically offended the bill of attainder clause were invalid. The Court also found it significant that Nixon was compensated for the loss of his papers, which alleviated the punishment. The Court modified the punishment prong by holding that punishment could survive scrutiny if it was rationally related to other, nonpunitive goals. Finally, the Court concluded that the legislation must not be intended to punish; legislation enacted for otherwise legitimate purposes could be saved so long as punishment was a side-effect rather than the main purpose of the law.\n\nA number of cases which raised the bill of attainder issue did not reach or have not reached the Supreme Court, but were considered by lower courts.\n\nIn 1990, in the wake of the Exxon Valdez oil spill, Congress enacted the Oil Pollution Act to consolidate various oil spill and oil pollution statutes into a single unified law, and to provide for a statutory regime for handling oil spill cleanup. This law was challenged as a bill of attainder by the shipping division of ExxonMobil.\n\nIn 2003, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck down the Elizabeth Morgan Act as a bill of attainder.\n\nAfter the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution in late 2009 barring the community organising group Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) from receiving federal funding, the group sued the U.S. government. Another, broader bill, the Defund ACORN Act, was enacted by Congress later that year. In March 2010, a federal district court declared the funding ban an unconstitutional bill of attainder. On 13 August 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed and remanded on the grounds that only 10 percent of ACORN's funding was federal and that did not constitute \"punishment\".\n\nThere is argument over whether the Palm Sunday Compromise in the Terri Schiavo case was a bill of attainder.\n\nSome analysts considered a proposed Congressional bill to confiscate 90 percent of the bonus money paid to executives at federally rescued investment bank American International Group a bill of attainder, although disagreement exists on the issue. The bill was not passed by Congress.\n\nIn 2009, the City of Portland's attempt to prosecute more severely those on a \"secret list\" of 350 individuals deemed by police to have committed \"liveability crimes\" in certain neighbourhoods was challenged as unconstitutional bill of attainder.\n\nIn 2011, the House voted to defund Planned Parenthood. Democratic Representative Jerry Nadler called that vote a bill of attainder, saying it was unconstitutional as such because the legislation was targeting a specific group.\n\nIn January 2017, the House reinstated the Holman Rule, a procedural rule that enables lawmakers to reduce the pay of an individual federal worker down to $1.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3931871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3931871", "title": "Code morphing", "text": "Code morphing\n\nCode morphing is an approach used in obfuscating software to protect software applications from reverse engineering, analysis, modifications, and cracking. This technology protects intermediate level code such as compiled from Java and .NET languages (Oxygene, C#, Visual Basic, etc.) rather than binary object code. Code morphing breaks up the protected code into several processor commands or small command snippets and replaces them by others, while maintaining the same end result. Thus the protector obfuscates the code at the intermediate level.\n\nCode morphing is a multilevel technology containing hundreds of unique code transformation patterns. In addition this technology transforms some intermediate layer commands into virtual machine commands (like p-code). Code morphing does not protect against runtime tracing, which can reveal the execution logic of any protected code.\n\nUnlike other code protectors, there is no concept of code decryption with this method. Protected code blocks are always in the executable state, and they are executed (interpreted) as transformed code. The original intermediate code is absent to a certain degree, but deobfuscation can still give a clear view of the original code flow.\n\nCode morphing is also used to refer to the just-in-time compilation technology used in Transmeta processors such as the Crusoe and Efficeon to implement the x86 instruction set architecture. \n\nCode morphing is often used in obfuscating the copy protection or other checks that a program makes to determine whether it is a valid, authentic installation, or an unauthorized copy, in order to make the removal of the copy-protection code more difficult than would otherwise be the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "18160285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18160285", "title": "Cognitive authority", "text": "Cognitive authority\n\nAccording to Rieh (2005), \"Patrick Wilson (1983) developed the cognitive authority theory from social epistemology in his book, \"Second-hand Knowledge: An Inquiry into Cognitive Authority\". The fundamental concept of Wilson’s cognitive authority is that people construct knowledge in two different ways: based on their first-hand experience or on what they have learned second-hand from others. What people learn first-hand depends on the stock of ideas they bring to the interpretation and understanding of their encounters with the world. People primarily depend on others for ideas as well as for information outside the range of direct experience. Much of what they think of the world is what they have gained second-hand. Wilson (1983) argues that all that people know of the world beyond the narrow range of their own lives is what others have told them. However, people do not count all hearsay as equally reliable; only those who are deemed to “know what they are talking about” become cognitive authorities. Wilson coined the term cognitive authority to explain the kind of authority that influences thoughts that people would consciously recognize being proper. Cognitive authority differs from administrative authority or the authority vented in a hierarchical position.\" (Rieh, 2005).\n\nWilson's dichotomy between first hand knowledge and second hand knowledge may be a trace left from empiricism. According to non-empiricist epistemologies such as hermeneutics and pragmatism even our first hand knowledge (our perception) is influenced by our culture and hence - mostly indirectly and unconsciously - by cognitive authorities: the way we learn to look at things when brought up in a culture and socialized into a subculture and a domain.\n\nThe concept of cognitive authority is important because it forces us to be skeptical towards claims in the literature and elsewhere. It forces us to consider the criteria we should use when evaluating information sources. In other words: It forces us to consider epistemological issues.\n\nDifferent \"movements\", \"paradigms\", \"positions\" or \"schools\" in a given field tend to have different cognitive authorities. \n\"Most people, even most academics, do not have the time, training, or occasion to work through the technical literature on a controversial topic, and so, they must rely on professionals for a disinterested evaluation\" (Herrnstein, 1973, pp. 52,53; quoted from Tucker, 1994). Tucker shows, however, that the recognized experts within the field of intelligence research blindly accepted Cyril Burt's research even though it was without scientific value and probably directly faked: They wanted to believe that IQ was hereditary, and considered uncritically empirical claims supporting this view. When a researcher from another field (Leon Kamin) first demonstrated that Burt's results were wrong, he was not considered a cognitive authority. When his criticism was considered unavoidable, the established researchers tried to change history and deprive Kamin of his intellectual credit. This example shows something about how cognitive authority may be ascribed in the real world. \nThe concept of cognitive authority also raises the question of the role of experts. On the one hand, it is dangerous to blindly believe claims originating from \"experts\" while on the other hand, \"commonsensism\" is also a problematic epistemology. John Dewey (1920) discussed this dilemma and worked on improving general education in order to make the general public less vulnerable to the power of experts.\n\nIn about 1880, history was established as an academic discipline and as a profession based on that discipline in both Europe and the USA. The cognitive authority of history was closely related to the application of scientific methods and source criticism. A clear division was established between amateur historians and professional, scientific historians. From the dominant \"paradigm\" in the historical profession of that time, it was clear what to consider \"cognitive authority\".\n\nHowever, inside history, the \"paradigm\" shifted to \"the present period of confusion, polarization, and uncertainty, in which the idea of historical objectivity has become more problematic than ever before\".\n\nFor some the development has turned around and amateurs have the same cognitive authority as professional historians: \"[I]t is not the purportedly objective investigations\nof the historian into a real subject matter which lead to knowledge about history, but rather the\nknowledge at which the historian arrives is conditioned\nby the linguistic mode in which she/he operates.\nProfessional historiography for White [1973] generates no\nmore objective knowledge of the past than does speculative philosophy of history or the historical\nnovel.\" \n\nWhat is considered \"cognitive authority\" in a given field of knowledge is thus relative and depending on the \"paradigm\" of the information seeker. An argument about what should be regarded \"cognitive authority\" is in the end an epistemological argument.\n\nThe concept of cognitive authority was developed in library and information science and has attracted a lot of attention in this field. Its importance for this field is related to questions such as: What criteria should be used for selecting information sources? For advising users about selecting information? For interpreting user studies and relevance judgments? All such issues involve questions of cognitive authority and epistemology.\n\n\"Perhaps we [library and information professionals] should learn to be more critical of the very concept of authority. Authority is legitimate only within the boundaries of the community (subject or otherwise) in which it is based. Many questions pertain to areas claimed by competing disciplines, and some to areas beyond the bounds of recognized disciplinary communities. Even when we are able to locate authoritative sources with answers to questions, they tend to be less certain than they look, and greater authority is no guarantee of quality. Authority tells us only that the creators of the source have qualifications and institutional affiliations that match the expectations of a given disciplinary community, not that the source is infallible, or even that its disciplinary community is the best to pursue the information sought\" (Pierce, 1991, p. 31).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34210523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34210523", "title": "Commission for Looted Art in Europe", "text": "Commission for Looted Art in Europe\n\nThe Commission for Looted Art in Europe is a non-profit organization, that researches looted art, and helps formulate restitution policy, for galleries, libraries, archives, and museums. \nIt was organized in 1999. Anne Webber, and David Lewis are co-chairs.\n\nIn 2011, they joined with The National Archives (United Kingdom), the National Archives and Records Administration, and German Federal Archives, to combine a single web portal, of stolen art.\n\nIn 2006 the BBC foreign correspondent Sir Charles Wheeler returned an original Alessandro Allori painting to the Gemäldegalerie, Berlin. He had been given it in Germany in 1952, but only recently realized its origin and that it must have been looted in the wake of World War II. The work is possibly a portrait of Eleonora (Dianora) di Toledo de' Medici, niece of Eleonora di Toledo, and measures 12 cm x 16 cm.\n\n"}
{"id": "5000903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000903", "title": "Competition Appeal Tribunal", "text": "Competition Appeal Tribunal\n\nThe Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) of the United Kingdom was created by Section 12 and Schedule 2 to the Enterprisee Act 2002 which came into force on 1 April 2003. The Competition Service is an executive non-departmental public body which was created as a support body for the Competition Appeal Tribunal.\n\nThe current functions of the CAT are:\n\nIn March 2014, the price comparison site, Skyscanner, brought a case to the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT), challenging a January 2014 decision by the UK’s antitrust authority – then known as the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) – to settle a probe over pricing of hotel rooms online. The OFT's decision had been to accept commitments from a number of online travel agents (OTAs) and InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG). Skyscanner appealed against the OFT's successor, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), because it believed its business would be affected by the settlement, even though it wasn't targeted by the investigation. Skyscanner's case was supported by a smaller online travel agent, Skoosh, which had triggered the OFT's original investigation. In a judgement handed down in September 2014, the Competition Appeal Tribunal quashed the Office of Fair Trading's decision to accept commitments in the online hotel booking sector and the matter was reverted to the CMA for reconsideration.\n\n"}
{"id": "8297232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8297232", "title": "Crown proceedings", "text": "Crown proceedings\n\nIn English law, Crown proceedings are legal proceedings which involve the Crown, and this would include all government departments.\n\nProceedings commenced by or against the Crown are governed by the Crown Proceedings Act 1947, and procedurally by Part 66 of the Civil Procedure Rules 1998.\n\nIn particular, judgments against the Crown cannot be enforced in the usual way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26222422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26222422", "title": "Cuban Assets Control Regulations", "text": "Cuban Assets Control Regulations\n\nThe Cuban Assets Control Regulations, , are regulations of the United States Department of the Treasury on July 8, 1963, under the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, that general regulate relations between Cuba and the U.S. and are the main mechanism of domestic enforcement of the United States embargo against Cuba.\n\nIt was recently modified by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.\n\nThe relevant laws are:\n"}
{"id": "47550532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47550532", "title": "Cyberspace Administration of China", "text": "Cyberspace Administration of China\n\nThe Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC; ), also known as the Office of the Central Cyberspace Affairs Commission (), is the central Internet regulator, censor, oversight, and control agency for the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe CAC was founded in 2014. As of August 2018, the agency is headed by Zhuang Rongwen (庄荣文). The CAC answers to the Central Cyberspace Affairs Commission, which is headed by Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping. The deputy heads are Li Keqiang, the Premier of the State Council of China, and Liu Yunshan, the head of the Propaganda and Ideology Leading Group.\n\nThe CAC, based on the same bureaucracy as the Communist Party's Office for Foreign Propaganda, is involved in the formulation and implementation of policy on a variety of issues related to the Chinese Internet.\n\nThe CAC includes the following departments: an Internet Security Emergency Command Center, an Agency Service Center, and an Illegal and Unhealthy Information Reporting Center.\n\nThe efforts of the CAC have been linked with a broader push by the administration of Party General Secretary Xi Jinping, characterized by Xiao Qiang, head of China Digital Times, as a \"ferocious assault on civil society.\" This has included forced confessions of television journalists, military parades, harsh media censorship and more.\n\nThe CAC also maintains some censorship functions, including issuing directives to media companies in China. After a campaign to arrest almost 200 lawyers and activists in China, the CAC published a directive saying that \"All websites must, without exception, use as the standard official and authoritative media reports with regards to the detention of trouble-making lawyers by the relevant departments.\"\n\nLu Wei, the head of the CAC, was previously the head of the Beijing Propaganda Department, and oversaw the Internet Management Office, a \"massive human effort\" that involved over 60,000 Internet propaganda workers and two million others employed off-payroll. It was this experience that assisted General Secretary Xi Jinping in selecting Lu was the head of the newly formed Internet regulator, the CAC.\n\nAmong the areas the CAC regulates include usernames on the Chinese Internet, the appropriateness of remarks made online, virtual private networks, the content of Internet portals, and much more. The CAC was behind a warning given to the major web service Sina Weibo, which was threatened with closure unless it \"improved censorship.\" The CAC said that Sina had failed to properly police the comments made by users on the Internet.\n\nAccording to a draft Cyber Security Law, made public on July 6, 2015, the CAC works with other Chinese regulators to formulate a catalog of \"key network equipment\" and \"specialized network security products\" for certification. The CAC is also involved in reviewing the procurement of network products or services for national security considerations. Data stored outside of China by Chinese companies is also required to undergo CAC approval.\n\nAccording to Xinhua, the official state newsagency, the CAC was responsible for issuing a \"voluntary pledge\" that was intended to be adhered to by the major Internet portals in China about the comments that would or would not be allowed to be made on their website. Among the categories of comments that were banned, included were those that \"harmed national security,\" \"harmed the nation's honor or interest,\" \"damaged the nation's religious policies,\" \"spread rumors, disturbed public order,\" and \"intentionally using character combinations to avoid censorship.\"\n\nThe CAC was also responsible for chasing down Internet users and web sites that published \"rumors\" following an explosion in the port city of Tianjin. Such rumors included claims that blasts killed 1,000 people, or that there was looting, or leadership ructions as a result of the blast.\n\nThe CAC has been given the responsibility for reviewing the security of devices made by foreign countries.\n\nInternet users in China have generally regarded the CAC with anger, given its central role in regulating and blocking the content they have access to. In January 2015, the CAC debuted a song that \"The New York Times\" called \"a throwback to revolutionary songs glorifying the state.\" The song included the lines: “Unified with the strength of all living things, Devoted to turning the global village into the most beautiful scene” and “An Internet power: Tell the world that the Chinese Dream is uplifting China.”\n\nThe CAC has also been accused of assisting in cyber attacks against visitors to Chinese website. The anti-censorship group GreatFire.org provided data and reports showing man-in-the-middle attacks against major foreign web services, including iCloud, Yahoo, Microsoft, and Google. The attack would have required the ability to \"tap into the backbone of the Chinese Internet.\"\n\nGibson Research Corporation attributed some of the attacks against GitHub to the CAC's operations. In the attack, ads hosted on Baidu were able to leverage computers visiting from outside China, redirecting their traffic to overload the servers of GitHub. \"The tampering takes places someplace between when the traffic enters China and when it hits Baidu’s servers,\" Gibson wrote. \"This is consistent with previous malicious actions and points to the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) being directly involved...\"\n\nChina has pursued a new strategy for app rules to monitor user accounts.\n\n"}
{"id": "37914377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37914377", "title": "Elm Guest House claims and controversy", "text": "Elm Guest House claims and controversy\n\nThe Elm Guest House was a former hotel in Rocks Lane, near Barnes Common in south-west London that was named in a 2012 report into sexual abuse and child grooming in the late 1970s and 1980s. Several prominent British men were alleged, in a list produced by convicted fraudster Chris Fay, to have visited the Guest House during this time. Labour MP Tom Watson suggested in an October 2012 statement to the House of Commons that a paedophile network which had existed at this time may have brought children to parties at the private residence. During 2014 and 2015, allegations against several leading politicians of the period, mostly now deceased, were made public in the British press. Many of these claims were examined and discredited in an October 2015 episode of the BBC current affairs programme, \"Panorama\".\n\nThe role of the guest house became the subject of a Metropolitan Police Service investigation known as Operation Fairbank in late 2012; the purpose of this \"scoping exercise\" was to assess Watson's claims. As a result of allegations arising from Operation Fairbank, a full criminal investigation called Operation Fernbridge was launched in February 2013. No further evidence into alleged abuse connected to the Elm Guest House was uncovered and the operation was closed in March 2015. Another investigation, Operation Midland, was set up to examine claims of possible homicide. A subsequent inquiry found that those investigated by Operation Midland had been victims of false allegations. The then-Metropolitan Police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe, later made a personal apology to the innocent parties involved in November 2016.\n\nThe three-storey Elm Guest House was in Rocks Lane, close to Barnes Common in south-west London. It had eight guest rooms, and its facilities included a sauna, solarium and video studio. The Edwardian house has since been converted into two-bedroom apartments, and the current occupants are not connected to the allegations.\n\nThe Elm Guest House owner and manager, Carole Kasir, \"transformed [the house] from a nondescript suburban hotel into a gay rendezvous which was advertised in Gay News and other specialist publications\". A party was raided by the police in 1982, following which 12 boys gave evidence that they had been abused by men at the house. Kasir was convicted of the charge of running a disorderly house, but allegations of abuse against children, (and an alleged subsequent reported investigation in 2003), were apparently not pursued. Kasir died in 1990 at the age of 47; an inquest found that the cause of Kasir's death was suicide due to an overdose of insulin. \n\nIn 1990, according to journalist James Hanning, Chris Fay, a Labour councillor, convicted fraudster and a campaigner for the National Association of Young People in Care, claimed on oath that former Home Secretary Leon Brittan had been involved in abuse and that in March 1990 he had seen a photograph of Brittan with a young boy. He said the picture had been shown to him by Carole Kasir, co-owner of the Elm Guest House, who died weeks later. Fay also drew up a list of public figures that he said victims had told him had stayed at the Elm Guest House. The list included former government ministers, senior MPs, top police officers, judges, pop music stars, and people with links to the Royal Households. It was uploaded to the internet.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal in October 2012, Labour MP Tom Watson said in the House of Commons he had evidence that there was a \"powerful paedophile network linked to Parliament and Number 10\". With the public upset that Savile was never properly investigated over his alleged crimes, the Metropolitan Police launched Operation Fairbank as a scoping exercise to examine Watson's claims. Watson later publicly stated that two people had come forward and told him they were abused by Brittan.\n\nOver the next few years, additional allegations were reported in the media. Allegations were made that Liberal MP Cyril Smith, DJ Jimmy Savile, convicted rapist Sidney Cooke, and Foreign Office barrister Colin Peters were among those who visited the establishment. The police's Professional Standards Directorate examined potential criminal offences by undercover officers at the time of a police raid on Elm Guest House in June 1982. The Metropolitan Police referred themselves to the Independent Police Complaints Commission, asking them to review sixteen different allegations that they had suppressed evidence of child sexual abuse and prevented the investigation of some allegations between 1970 and 2005.\n\nIn an edition of \"Panorama\" broadcast on 6 October 2015, a former Elm Guest House prostitute was interviewed who claimed that he was unaware of any MPs visiting the brothel. Journalist John Oakes told them he had investigated Chris Fay's claims, but had never been able to find any \"solid\" information nor trace of photos Fay said he had seen. Fay told \"Panorama\" that 17 or 18 children from Grafton Close had told him they had been trafficked to Elm Guest House; one of them, Mark, stated that he had been an abuse victim at Grafton Close but had never been to Elm Guest House nor spoken to Fay. Another person interviewed by \"Panorama\" said they named Brittan as their abuser only after being pressured by Fay. \"The Daily Telegraph\" later reported that Fay had been jailed for fraud in 2011. Fay said he regretted starting a \"witch-hunt\".\n\nIn late 2015, Watson was criticised for consistently refusing to comment after it was revealed that the police had been pressured into investigating rape allegations against Brittan by Watson, who wrote to the Director of Public Prosecutions. Police ultimately decided that Brittan would face no further action but Brittan was never told he would not be charged before his death in January 2015. In November 2015, Watson apologised to Brittan's widow and her family for the distress caused by the investigation. Metropolitan police commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe issued an apology of his own in February 2016 for mishandling the investigation.\n\nThe police investigation known as Operation Fairbank was first set up under conditions of secrecy. \"The Independent on Sunday\" reported that it focused on claims of sexual abuse and the grooming of children, involving parties for men at the former Elm Guest House. Police also investigated allegations that in the early 1980s a \"paedophile ring of VIPs\" abused boys from the Grafton Close Children's Home in Richmond, south-west London. \n\nAccording to \"The Daily Telegraph\", Operation Fairbank caused much speculation on the internet but made little progress in exposing the alleged paedophile ring.\n\nA full criminal investigation, Operation Fernbridge, was launched as a result of allegations that arose from Operation Fairbank. Operation Fernbridge investigated allegations concerning both Grafton Close children's home and Elm Guest House.\n\nOperation Fernbridge was supported by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre and Richmond Social Services. In June 2013, it was reported that seven police officers were working on the case and were following more than 300 leads. In July 2014, the Metropolitan Police confirmed that they had more than tripled the number of officers working on the case, announcing that 22 officers were working on the operation.\n\nTwo men, a Catholic priest from Norwich, and a man understood to be connected to the Grafton Close children's home in Richmond, were arrested on suspicion of sexual offences and questioned by child investigation officers from Operation Fernbridge in February 2013. A third arrest, of a 69-year-old man, took place in July 2013. A trial against Tony McSweeney, the Catholic priest, started at Southwark Crown Court in February 2015. However, John Stingemore, the man who formerly worked for Richmond Council, was found dead at his home in January 2015 whilst still awaiting trial. McSweeney was later convicted of his charges and sentenced to prison.\n\nAlthough arrests from Operation Fernbridge did result in a conviction stemming from Grafton Close children's home, it did not expose abuse related to Elm Guest House. After McSweeny's conviction, Operation Fernbridge was closed and investigations related to Elm Guest House were taken over by Operation Athabasca.\n\nVishambar Mehrotra, the father of eight-year-old Vishal Mehrotra who disappeared in July 1981 said in November 2014 that he believed his son may have died at the hands of a paedophile ring involving high-profile individuals, and that he feared that the Metropolitan Police covered up links between his son's death and activities at Elm Guest House. Mehrotra went missing in Putney, close to the Elm Guest House in Barnes. The upper half of his torso was subsequently found seven months later, buried in woodland in West Sussex. \n\nIn November 2014, a man known publicly under the pseudonym \"Nick\" told Operation Fairbank detectives that he had been abused by a VIP gang of paedophiles for over a decade and that he had witnessed them murder three boys. Mehrotra's murder, and the murder of two other boys, were subsequently investigated as part of Operation Midland. Based only on the accusations of the one accuser, Midland investigated Edward Heath, Leon Brittan, Edwin Bramall, Harvey Proctor and others. An inquiry conducted by Richard Henriques found that those accused had been victims of false allegations and the Metropolitan Police commissioner subsequently apologised to the living suspects (Bramall and Proctor) and Brittan's widow.\n\nOperation Hydrant is a coordination hub which gathers information from other inquiries, including those described above. In May 2015, Operation Hydrant reported that 1,400 men, of which 261 were high-profile individuals, were being investigated over allegations of historical child abuse.\n\nSome of the men accused of being involved in abuse related to the Elm Guest House faced unrelated inquiries. Allegations regarding Jimmy Savile were investigated as part of Operation Yewtree. A report into his alleged offences, \"Giving Victims a Voice\", was released in January 2013. Greater Manchester Police investigated Cyril Smith as part of Operation Jaguar. In 2014, The Metropolitan Police started Operation Cayacos, an investigation into historical claims of child abuse by a paedophile ring linked to Peter Righton. Tom Watson stated that files on Righton contained \"clear intelligence of a widespread paedophile ring.\" Wiltshire Police launched Operation Conifer in 2015 to examine claims against Edward Heath.\n"}
{"id": "34534559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34534559", "title": "European Convention on Extradition", "text": "European Convention on Extradition\n\nThe European Convention on Extradition is a multilateral extradition treaty drawn in 1957 up by the member states of the Council of Europe and in force between all of them. The Convention is also available for signature by non-members which as of January 2012 are Israel, South Africa and South Korea. Prior to the introduction of the European Arrest Warrant, the Convention governed extradition between member states of the European Union.\n\nThere are 4 additional protocols to the convention that vary the conditions signed up to by individual states.\n\n"}
{"id": "32347753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32347753", "title": "Federal Cases", "text": "Federal Cases\n\nFederal Cases, circuit and district courts, 1789–1880 (in case citations, abbreviated F. Cas.) was a reporter of cases decided by the United States district and circuit courts between 1789 and 1880, and is part of the National Reporter System.\n\nIn 1880, West Publishing Company began reporting decisions from all federal courts in the \"Federal Reporter\", and the \"Federal Reporter\" soon became established as the leading unofficial reporter for the federal circuit and district courts. But federal decisions issued prior to 1880 had been previously published in a variety of separate reporters from several private entrepreneurs. \"Federal Cases\", then, was West Publishing's attempt to collect and republish all federal decisions from 1789 to 1880 in a single reporter which would be part of its National Reporter System, just like the \"Federal Reporter\". That is, as with other NRS reporters, the cases included were annotated by West attorney-editors with \"headnotes\" summarizing their holdings, and the headnotes were then indexed for easy cross-referencing to similar cases through the West American Digest System. Republishing all those old cases within the NRS framework meant that subsequent generations of lawyers and judges would be able to resort solely to West reporters to access the entire extant universe of post-1789 federal case law.\n\n\"Federal Cases\" was published in 30 numbered volumes from 1894 to 1897. Unlike the vast majority of reporters which publish cases in chronological order, the contents of \"Federal Cases\" were arranged in alphabetical order based on the first letter of each case title. Each of the cases was assigned a sequential number by West. The advantage of publishing in alphabetical order was that the cases published in \"Federal Cases\" would not have cited to each other based on their volume and page in a future reporter that did not yet exist; but case citations normally began (and still begin) with the case title, which would usually remain the same. The disadvantage of alphabetical order is that it makes sense only if \"all\" the cases to be included were gathered at the beginning. In an era before modern computerized databases, errors were inevitable, with the result that volume 30 ran through Z, then started over again at A to include a few more cases (and other miscellaneous materials) omitted the first time around.\n\nOf course, many of the cases published in \"Federal Cases\" cited other cases published in \"Federal Cases,\" but the original text of each opinion would have cited to the volumes and pages of the various reporters in which those cases had originally been published. Since the entire point of the project was to supersede those old reporters, all cases published in \"Federal Cases\" were edited so that all such citations were replaced with citations to the appropriate \"Federal Cases\" case numbers.\n\nAt the end of the project, a 31st volume was subsequently published which contained only a digest and various tables (that is, a navigation guide to the content already published); thus, some law library catalogs show \"Federal Cases\" as consisting of 31 volumes.\n"}
{"id": "3815019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3815019", "title": "French nationality law", "text": "French nationality law\n\nFrench nationality law is historically based on the principles of \"jus soli\" (Latin for \"right of soil\"), according to Ernest Renan's definition, in opposition to the German definition of nationality, \"jus sanguinis\" (Latin for \"right of blood\"), formalised by Johann Gottlieb Fichte.\n\nThe 1993 Méhaignerie Law required children born in France of foreign parents to request French nationality at adulthood, rather than being automatically accorded citizenship. This \"manifestation of will\" requirement was subsequently abrogated by the Guigou Law of 1998, but children born in France of foreign parents remain foreign until obtaining legal majority.\n\nChildren born in France to tourists or other short-term visitors do not acquire French citizenship by virtue of birth in France: residency must be proven. Since immigration became increasingly a political theme in the 1980s, both left-wing and right-wing governments have issued several laws restricting the possibilities of being naturalized.\n\nFrench nationality and citizenship were concepts that existed even before the French Revolution.\n\nThere are three key dates in the legal history of naturalization:\nMilitary service and state education were two processes central to the creation of a common national culture. Military conscription (universal from 1872, in theory if not in practice) brought inhabitants of the state's regions together for the first time, creating bonds of friendship and encouraging the use of French rather than regional languages. Universal education (the aim of the Jules Ferry Laws, 1879–1886) brought the whole of the population into contact with state-sanctioned version of French history and identity. State teachers, the \"Black hussars of the Republic,\" conveyed the national language to the people of the regions.\n\nThere are various ways a person can acquire French citizenship, either at birth or later on in life.\n\n\nChildren born in France (including overseas territories) to at least one parent who is also born in France automatically acquire French citizenship at birth (\"double jus soli\").\n\nA child born in France to foreign parents may acquire French citizenship:\n\nA child who was born abroad and who has only one French parent can repudiate their French nationality during the six months prior to their reaching the age of majority, or in the year which follows it (article 19-4 of the Civil Code).\n\nThe child (legitimate or natural) is French if at least one parent is French.\n\nIn the case of an adoption, the child has French nationality only under the \"full adoption\" regime.\n\nParentage to the parent from whom the French nationality is claimed, must be established while the child is still a minor (under 18).\n\nWhen the child is born abroad from a French parent, it is essential for the French parent to record the birth of the child in the French civil register. In the event of litigation or to establish definitive proof of French nationality (or request a French passport) French nationality may be established by petitioning for a French nationality certificate from the Tribunal d'Instance (local court) of the person's place of residence, or if residing abroad, via the French Nationality Office in Paris having jurisdiction over French persons residing abroad.\n\nThe child (legitimate or natural) is French if born in France to at least one parent also born in France or French citizen.\n\nSimply being born in France does not confer French nationality except in the case of a child born to unknown or stateless parents, or to aliens whose nationality is not transmitted to the child.\n\nA child born in France before January 1, 1994, to a parent born in a former French overseas territory prior to its acquisition of independence, is automatically French. The same is true for a child born after 1 January 1963, to a parent born in Algeria before July 3, 1962.\n\nPlenary adoption is the only act of filiation which carries direct effects on nationality. Unlike the process of simple adoption, a child adopted according to the procedure of plenary adoption breaks any bond with his family of origin.\n\nFiliation must be established while the child is a minor to take effect. Consequently, the recognition of a child older than the age of majority has no effect on his or her nationality.\n\nA person aged 18 or above may apply for French citizenship by naturalization after five years' habitual and continuous residence in France (if married and with children, then the applicant must be living in France with his/her family). In addition, it is required that the applicant has his/her primary source of income in France during the five-year period. Those applying who are not European Union, European Economic Area or Swiss nationals are required to be in possession of a \"titre de séjour\" (a residence permit).\n\nThe residence period is counted backwards from the date on which the applicant lodged his/her naturalization application.\n\nThe applicant must show that he/she has been residing legally in France during the 5 or 2 year residence period. Any periods of irregular residence in France \"before\" the 5 or 2 year residence period will not be taken into account when the application is considered. If the applicant's residence period is completely waived, he/she must have resided legally in France in the 2 years immediately preceding the date on which he/she lodged his/her naturalization application.\n\nNaturalization will only be successful for those who are judged to have integrated into French society (i.e. by virtue of language skills and understanding of rights and responsibilities of a French citizen, to be demonstrated during an interview at the local prefecture, as well as an ability and/or potential to integrate in the labour market), and who respect the values of French society. The applicant must also be of good character (no criminal offences with a sentence of 6 months' imprisonment or more and no tax avoidance). In assessing the applicant's character, the decision reached must be proportionate (for example, a naturalization application should not be rejected solely because the applicant occasionally declared/paid taxes late).\n\nNaturalization through residency is accorded by publication of a decree in the Journal Officiel by decision of the Home Ministry and the prefecture of the region where the applicant has submitted his/her application. There is an obligatory delay of 12 months from the date of submission before the applicant is notified of the result of his/her naturalisation application.\n\nThe spouse of a French national can apply for nationality, and must be able to prove that they have been married for five years and live together, (four years if the couple can prove continuous residence in France for three years since the wedding, or if when living abroad, the French spouse has been registered as a French citizen living abroad (article 79 of law 2006-911 published in the JO of 25/07/2006).) The applicant must also have a good knowledge of the French language, spoken and written, and the couple must appear in person together to sign documents.\n\nForeign nationals may apply for naturalization after three years of service in the French Foreign Legion, a wing of the French Army that is open to men of any nationality. Furthermore, a soldier wounded in battle during Legion service may immediately apply for naturalization under the principle of \"Français par le sang versé\" (\"French by spilled blood\").\n\nAccording to the French Republic, the French people are those who are in possession of French nationality. According to the French Constitution, \"France shall be an indivisible, secular, democratic and social Republic. It shall ensure the equality of all citizens before the law, without distinction of origin, race or religion. It shall respect all beliefs. It shall be organised on a decentralised basis.\" Article 1\n\nSince the middle of the 19th century, France has exhibited a very high rate of immigration, mainly from Southern Europe, Eastern Europe, the Maghreb, Africa and Asia. According to a 2004 report by INED researcher Michèle Tribalat France has approximately 14 million persons (out of nearly 63 million, or approximately 22%) (see demographics of France) of foreign ascendancy (immigrants or with at least one parent or grandparent immigrant).\n\nThe absence of official statistics on French citizens of foreign origin is deliberate. Under French law passed after the Vichy regime, it is forbidden to categorize people according to their ethnic origins. In France, like in many other European countries, censuses do not collect information on supposed ancestry. Moreover, all French statistics are forbidden to have any references concerning ethnic membership. Thus, the French government's assimilationist stance towards immigration as well as towards regional identities and cultures, together with the political heritage of the French Revolution has led to the development of a French identity which is based more on the notion of citizenship than on cultural, historical or ethnic ties.\n\nFor that reason, French identity must not necessarily be associated with the \"ethnic French people\" but can be associated with either a nationality and citizenship, or a culture and language-based group. The latter forms the basis for La Francophonie, a group of French-speaking countries, or countries with historical and cultural association to France. The concept of \"French ethnicity\" exists outside France's borders, in particular in Quebec where some people claim membership to a \"French ethnic group\", but again many view it as not so much ethnicity-based as language-based and would also include immigrants from, for example, Lebanon and Haiti. France's particular self-perception means that French identity may include a naturalized, French-speaking ethnic Portuguese, Italian, Spaniard, Poles, Romanian, Lebanese, Vietnamese, Tunisian, Algerian or Moroccan. Nonetheless, like in other European countries, some level of discrimination occurs, and there are higher unemployment rates among job-seekers with foreign-sounding names.\n\nIn modern France, in general, the rights are fundamentally the same as those in other EU countries.\n\nDespite the official discourse of universality, French nationality has not meant automatic citizenship. Some categories of French people have been excluded, throughout the years, from full citizenship:\n\nModern citizenship is linked to civic participation (also called positive freedom), which includes voting, demonstrations, petitions, activism, etc.\n\nVisa requirements for French citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of France. As of May 2018, French citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 187 countries and territories, ranking the French passport 3rd in terms of travel freedom (tied with the Finnish, Italian, South Korean, Spanish, and Swedish passports) according to the Henley Passport Index.\n\nThe French nationality is ranked number one as of 2018 in The Quality of Nationality Index (QNI). The ranking is considering internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development and external factors such as travel freedom. France’s comparative advantage lies in its greater settlement freedom (attributable mainly to the country’s former colonial empire.)\n\nDual citizenship was officially recognized for both men and women on 9 January 1973; since then, possession of more than one nationality does not affect French nationality. In the period of 9 April 1954 until 8 January 1973, only French men younger than the age of 50 were permitted to have dual citizenship, while a woman lost her French citizenship upon the acquisition of a foreign citizenship. France later denounced Chapter I of the Council of Europe Convention on the Reduction of Cases of Multiple Nationality and on Military Obligations in Cases of Multiple Nationality of May 6, 1963. The denunciation took effect March 5, 2009.\nBecause France forms part of the European Union, French citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no French embassy, French citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. French citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\nAccording to Giorgio Agamben, France was one of the first European countries to pass denaturalization laws, in 1915, with regard to naturalized citizens of \"enemy\" origins. Its example was followed by most European countries.\n\nAs early as July 1940, Vichy France set up a special Commission charged with reviewing the naturalizations granted since the 1927 reform of the nationality law. Between June 1940 and August 1944, 15,000 persons, mostly Jews, were denaturalized. This bureaucratic designation was instrumental in their subsequent internment and murder.\n\nIn 2001, as Bill Clinton finished his second term as President of the U.S. (the legal limit of terms under the U.S. Constitution), a theory was published by CNN that he could claim citizenship of France and run for leadership there. The open-letter by historian Patrick Weil held that a little known \"law, passed in 1961 [article 21-19(5º)], enables people from former French territories to apply for immediate naturalisation, bypassing the normal five-year residency requirement for would-be French citizens.\" As Clinton was born in Arkansas which had been part of French Louisiana before it was sold to the US, it was held that he would qualify under this law. And as a naturalised French citizen, he could run in the French presidential election.\n\nClinton himself later repeated this claim in 2012 as an amusing thought when speaking to an interviewer. Clinton had always dismissed the idea, and at the time of his retelling of the story in 2012, unknown to him, the possibility had already ended. This was because article 21-19(5º) of the Code civil was repealed (by article 82 of law 2006-911) on July 25, 2006 under the direction of Nicolas Sarkozy, who was then Minister of the Interior. Since \"Weil's article made this provision of the French nationality law notorious, the French parliament abolished it\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "731791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731791", "title": "Gamesmanship", "text": "Gamesmanship\n\nGamesmanship is the use of dubious (although not technically illegal) methods to win or gain a serious advantage in a game or sport. It has been described as \"Pushing the rules to the limit without getting caught, using whatever dubious methods possible to achieve the desired end\". It may be inferred that the term derives from the idea of playing for the game (i.e., to win at any cost) as opposed to sportsmanship, which derives from the idea of playing for sport. The term was popularized by Stephen Potter's humorous 1947 book, \"The Theory and Practice of Gamesmanship (or the Art of Winning Games without Actually Cheating)\". It had, however, been used before by Ian Coster in his autobiographic book \"Friends in Aspic\", published in 1939, where it was attributed to Francis Meynell.\n\nPotter cites the origin of gamesmanship to be a tennis match in which he and the philosopher C. E. M. Joad competed against two younger and fitter men who were outplaying them fairly comfortably. On returning a serve, Joad hit the ball straight into the back-netting twelve feet behind the back-line. While the opponents were preparing for the next serve, Joad 'called across the net, in an even tone: \"Kindly state clearly, please, whether the ball was in or out\"'. Being young, polite university students, their opponents offered to replay the point, but Joad declined. Because they were young and polite, the slight suggestion by Joad that their etiquette and sportsmanship were in question was extremely off-putting, and distracted them for the rest of the contest. Potter and Joad went on to win the match.\n\nCommon techniques of gamesmanship include:\n\nWhile the first method is more common at higher levels of sports, the last two are more powerful in amateur games.\n\nExamples of \"flow-breaking\" methods include:\n\n\nExamples of methods designed to cause the opponent to overthink or to not take the game seriously enough include:\n\n\n\nExamples of intentional \"mistakes\" designed to gain an advantage:\n\n\nAll of the above are considered very close to cheating, and the abuser of gamesmanship techniques will find himself penalized in most serious sports and games tournaments, as well as being deemed (if caught) a \"bad sport\".\n\nThe rules of the International Defensive Pistol Association for its practical shooting matches specifically state that any illegal action taken with the intent of gaining a competitive advantage is penalized as a \"Failure to Do Right\", adding 20 seconds to the competitor's time. This penalty is rarely given, partly because of its highly subjective nature.\n\nIn association football, it is considered good sportsmanship to kick the ball out of play if a player on the opposing side is injured; when the ball is to be thrown in, it is also considered to be good sportsmanship in this situation to kick it (or throw it) back to the other team who had intentionally kicked it out. Gamesmanship arises in this situation when, rather than passing the ball back to the side who kicked the ball out, the injured player's teammates keep the ball after the throw-in. Whilst not illegal or against the rules of the sport, it is heavily frowned upon.\n\nA high-profile example occurred during the game Portugal vs. Netherlands in round 16 of FIFA World Cup 2006, where the game, already marred by numerous cautions and even red cards, further deteriorated because of such an incident. Also, in a 1999 English FA Cup fifth round tie between Arsenal and Sheffield United, Arsenal's winning goal scored under these circumstances was so contentious the Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger offered to replay the match. Sheffield United accepted, though Arsenal went on to win the second game by the same margin, 2-1.\n\nFeigning injury to cause the ball to be kicked out is another example of gamesmanship intended to break the flow of play, though if detected, it may be regarded as ungentlemanly conduct, which is a breach of the laws and hence is no longer gamesmanship. In response to claims of feigned injuries during the 2006 World Cup, the Premier League has asked players, managers and referees to end the custom as of the 06/07 season, instead preferring a referee alone to determine whether a break in play is needed.\n\nWhen a free kick is awarded, members of the defending team will often pick up the ball and drop it back behind them as they retreat. Whilst not throwing the ball away, which would be an infringement, the purpose is to prevent a swiftly taken free kick.\n\nThe term \"gamesmanship\" is also used for similar techniques used in non-game situations, such as negotiations and elections.\n\nEach form is frequently used as a means of describing dubious methods of winning and/or psychological tricks used to intimidate or confuse one's opponent. Technically speaking, these tactics are one-upmanship, defined in a later book by Potter as the art of being one-up on somebody else.\n\nThe term also appears in art theory to mean playfulness, as in \"literary gamesmanship\".\n\nPotter's double-edged ironies did not spare the gamesman himself (he slyly named one prominent protagonist 'Bzo, U., holder (1947) Yugo-Slav Gamesmanship Championship', for example). Potter acknowledged repeatedly that 'the way of the gamesman is hard, his training strict, his progress slow, his disappointments many', and recognised that as a result 'the assiduous student of gamesmanship has little time for the \"minutiae\" of the game itself - little opportunity for learning how to play the shots, for instance'. Yet one of his \"correspondents\" owlishly admits, 'there is no doubt that a knowledge of the game itself sometimes helps the gamesman'.\n\nHence 'perhaps the most difficult type for the gamesman to play is the man who indulges in pure play. He gets down to it, he gets on with it, he plays each shot according to its merits, and his own powers, without a trace of exhibitionism, and no by-play whatever'. The book gloomily concludes, 'we amateurs have to fight against the growing menace of young people who insist on playing their various games for the fun of the thing...indulging rather too freely, if the truth were known, in pure play'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10421532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10421532", "title": "Gandhi Ashram Trust", "text": "Gandhi Ashram Trust\n\nThe Gandhi Ashram Trust (GAT), also called the Ambika-Kaliganga Charitable Trust, is a philanthropic and development organization working in Noakhali since 1946 with Gandhian philosophy of rural development.\n\nInspired by Mahatma Gandhi's visit in 1947 to Noakhali, it has applied the Gandhian philosophy of rural development, peace and social harmony to uplift living conditions of the rural poor, especially women, in that area. It has a two-pronged approach to developmental and charitable activities.\n\nInitially set up by the original owner of the premises (Barrister Hemanta Kumar Ghose) that were subsequently gifted to GAT, the Ambika Kaliganga Charitable Trust had carried out charitable functions and started working for the 1946 riot victims of Noakhali. Under Pakistani rule, the Trust could not continue its activities due to the policies of the then government.\n\nAfter the independence of Bangladesh in 1971, with the emergence of the Gandhi Ashram Trust in 1975, there was a shift in the vision and mission of the Trust. Development and extension services for the poor and disadvantaged were taken along with charitable functions. Currently, the main focus of Gandhi Ashram Trust is the development of better standards of living, both material and eternal.\n\nIt is working at the 5 district in Southern part of Bangladesh. Peace promotion, Human Development, Human Rights and Good Governance, Handicrafts promotion, Education, etc. are the main activities of the Organisation.\n"}
{"id": "298148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298148", "title": "Generalized System of Preferences", "text": "Generalized System of Preferences\n\nThe Generalized Scheme of Preferences, or GSP, is a preferential tariff system which provides for a formal system of exemption from the more general rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO), (formerly, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or GATT). Specifically, it is a system of exemptions from the most favored nation principle (MFN) that obliges WTO member countries to treat the imports of all other WTO member countries no worse than they treat the imports of their \"most favored\" trading partner. In essence, MFN requires WTO member countries to treat imports coming from all other WTO member countries equally, that is, by imposing equal tariffs on them.\n\nGSP exempts WTO member countries from MFN for the purpose of lowering tariffs for the least developed countries, without also lowering tariffs for rich countries. \n\nThe idea of tariff preferences for developing countries was the subject of considerable discussion within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in the 1960s. Among other concerns, developing countries claimed that MFN was creating a disincentive for richer countries to reduce and eliminate tariffs and other trade restrictions with enough speed to benefit developing countries.\n\nIn 1971, the GATT followed the lead of UNCTAD and enacted two waivers to the MFN that permitted tariff preferences to be granted to developing country goods. Both these waivers were limited in time to ten years. In 1979, the GATT established a permanent exemption to the MFN obligation by way of the enabling clause. This exemption allowed contracting parties to the GATT (the equivalent of today's WTO members) to establish systems of trade preferences for other countries, with the caveat that these systems had to be \"generalized, non-discriminatory and non-reciprocal' with respect to the countries they benefited (so-called \"beneficiary\" countries). Countries were not supposed to set up GSP programs that benefited just a few of their \"friends.'\n\nFrom the perspective of developing countries as a group, GSP programs have been a mixed success. On one hand, most rich countries have complied with the obligation to generalize their programs by offering benefits to a large swath of beneficiaries, generally including nearly every non-OECD member state. Certainly, every GSP program imposes some restrictions. The United States, for instance, has excluded countries from GSP coverage for reasons such as being communist (Vietnam), being placed on the U.S. State Department's list of countries that support terrorism (Libya), and failing to respect U.S. intellectual property laws.\n\nCriticism has been leveled noting that most GSP programs are not completely generalized with respect to products, and this is by design. That is, they don't cover products of greatest export interest to low-income developing countries lacking natural resources. In the United States and many other rich countries, domestic producers of \"simple\" manufactured goods, such as textiles, leather goods, ceramics, glass and steel, have long claimed that they could not compete with large quantities of imports. Thus, such products have been categorically excluded from GSP coverage under the U.S. and many other GSP programs. Critics assert that these excluded products are precisely the kinds of manufactures that most developing countries are able to export, the argument being that developing countries may not be able to efficiently produce things like locomotives or telecommunications satellites, but they can make shirts.\n\nSupporters note that even in the face of its limitations, it would not be accurate to conclude that GSP has failed to benefit developing countries, though some concede GSP has benefited developing countries unevenly. Some assert that, for most of its history, GSP has benefited \"richer developing\" countries - in early years Mexico, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Malaysia, more recently Brazil and India - while providing virtually no assistance to the world's least developed countries, such as Haiti, Nepal, and most countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The U.S., however, has closed some of these gaps through supplemental preference programs like the African Growth and Opportunity Act and a newer program for Haiti, and Europe has done the same with Everything But Arms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19428260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19428260", "title": "Geneva Phonograms Convention", "text": "Geneva Phonograms Convention\n\nThe Convention for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms Against Unauthorized Duplication of Their Phonograms, also known as the Geneva Phonograms Convention, is a 1971 international agreement relating to copyright protection for sound recordings.\n\nBy the mid-1950s, the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, the Buenos Aires Convention and Universal Copyright Convention granted strong rights to creators of printed or artistic content – and also to composers and performers of music – in most first world countries. The publisher of a book could prosecute a maker of unauthorized copies even if they operated in a different country. But there was no equivalent protection for sound recordings.\n\nThe 1961 Rome Convention for the first time granted international recognition for copyright in sound recordings. Now music labels were recognized as having a copyright interest in the recording itself, separately from the composer and performer. This gave them standing to prosecute makers of unauthorized copies of their tapes or records in other countries.\n\nIn the mid-1960s music labels began producing pre-recorded compact cassettes, a technology developed in the late 1950s which offered relatively compact players and space-efficient storage compared to vinyl records. It was also very much cheaper and simpler to make unauthorized copies compared to vinyl records. By the late 1960s copyright infringement and counterfeiting of these recordings had become common, and the music industry lobbied for a new international treaty which would give them additional powers to combat copyright infringement.\n\nThe 1971 convention granted record producers the international right to block imports of counterfeit music recordings, and to take action against distributors and retailers who sold them.\n\nUnlike the Berne Convention, which does not require formalities to obtain protection, the Geneva Phonograms convention does provide one formality. To secure protection under this convention, copies of the sound recording must carry a copyright notice, one exclusively for sound recordings. The notice consists of the phonogram copyright symbol, \"℗\" which is the upper case letter \"P\" in a circle, the year of publication, and the copyright owner's name. In this way, the Geneva Phonograms Convention is similar to the notice requirement of the Universal Copyright Convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57309265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57309265", "title": "Ghana Internet Policy", "text": "Ghana Internet Policy\n\nGhana was one of the first countries to be connected to internet in Africa.\n\nGhana became the next country to have internet in the Sub Sahara. Internet services began in Ghana in 1995. This was made possible through the collaborations between Network Computer Systems (NCS), Pipex International, The Ministry of Transport and Communication of Ghana, Ghana Telecom, and British Telecom. NCS had registered ghana.com domain in 1993.\n\nGhana has over 15 internet service providers who mostly provide different forms of internet services. Most of these ISPs provide wireless internet. And these include all the telcos in Ghana.\n\nAccording to bandwithplace, Ghana's internet speed hovers around an average of 1.46 Mbps uploads across most of the internet enabled devices tested.\n\nThere are over 7.9 million internet users in Ghana who mostly access the internet from mobile devices.\n\nThere are a number of ISPs in Ghana, apart from the major telecommunication companies like MTN Ghana, Vodafone Ghana, Airtel Africa, Millicom and Globacom there are other companies like Africaonline, ADTech IT,Blue Cloud Network which also provide internet services. There is also Busyinternet and Surfline which offers wireless internet services through their omternet enabled devices.Internet closure during elections\n\nAs it stands now, Ghana does not have any provisions on net neutrality. This has raised concerns and brought together netizens and tech firms to protest for this provision in Ghana\n\nGhana has however faced a net neutrality crisis in the past. This was as a result of the NCA wanting to ban sites like Skype,Whatsapp,Viber and other internet based instant mesaaging platforms with the excuse of they causing losses to telcos in Ghana.This campaign was led by telecommunication giant MTN which complained of losses due to peoples continuous use of these platfroms which reduced the number of calls. This brought a huge debate and in the end this never happened. NCA reacted to this that their press statement was take out of context and the said bad was not going to happen anytime.\n\nThere are no government restrictions on access to the Internet or reports that the government monitors e-mail or Internet chat rooms without judicial oversight. Individuals and groups engage in the peaceful expression of views via the Internet, including by e-mail.\n\nAlthough the constitution and law provide for freedom of speech and press, the government sometimes restricts those rights. The police arbitrarily arrest and detain journalists. Some journalists practice self-censorship. The constitution prohibits arbitrary interference with privacy, family, home, or correspondence, and the government respects these prohibitions in practice.\n\nIn 2002 the government of Ghana censored Internet media coverage of tribal violence in Northern Ghana.\n\nDuring the heat of the 2016 election year, there were rumors that the Inspector General of Ghana Police wanted to shut down access to internet. The civil society organizations came out to condemn the intended shutting down of the internet and proferred solutions like tracking of the internet.\n\nThe then President John Mahama came out to state that the internet won't be shut down on the day of elections.\n\n\nCyber fraud has been a major issue in Ghana like most developing countries in the world. A Kenyan IT firm report that Ghana lost over $50 million due to cyber fraud this was projected to increase to around $100 million in 2018. Several people both Ghanaians and foreigners have also been arrested in crimes relating to cyber fraud. I Notable among these crimes is the sim box fraud. In 2017 he National Cyber Security Week was held in Ghana to bring stakeholders together to help address issues of cyber security and cyber fraud.\n\nThe laws governing internet in Ghana include\n\nThis Law addresses some technical, regulatory and financial challenges related to interconnection.\n\nThe Data Protection Act, 2012 (Act 843) was formulated to protect personal information.This legislation was enacted by the Parliament of the Republic of Ghana to protect the privacy and personal data of individuals. It regulates the process personal information is acquired, kept, used or disclosed by data controllers and data processors by requiring compliance with certain data protection principles.\n"}
{"id": "19133401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19133401", "title": "Google Chrome", "text": "Google Chrome\n\nGoogle Chrome (commonly known simply as Chrome) is a freeware web browser developed by Google LLC. It was first released on September 2, 2008 for Microsoft Windows, and was later ported to Linux, macOS, iOS and Android. Google Chrome is also the main component of Chrome OS, where it serves as a platform for running web apps.\n\nGoogle releases the majority of Chrome's source code as the Chromium open-source project; however, Chrome itself is proprietary software. One component that is not open-source is the built-in Adobe Flash Player (that Chrome has disabled by default since September 2016). Chrome used the WebKit layout engine until version 27. As of version 28, all Chrome ports except the iOS port use Blink, a fork of the WebKit engine.\n\n, StatCounter estimates that Google Chrome has a 68% worldwide usage share of web browsers as a desktop browser. It also has 61% market share across all platforms combined, because it has over 50% share on smartphones; and thus Chrome is the most used browser in virtually all countries (most exceptions in Africa). Its success has led to Google expanding the \"Chrome\" brand name on various other products such as Chrome OS, Chromecast, Chromebook, Chromebit, Chromebox and Chromebase.\n\nGoogle CEO Eric Schmidt opposed the development of an independent web browser for six years. He stated that \"at the time, Google was a small company,\" and he did not want to go through \"bruising browser wars.\" After co-founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page hired several Mozilla Firefox developers and built a demonstration of Chrome, Schmidt admitted that \"It was so good that it essentially forced me to change my mind.\"\n\nIn September 2004, rumors of Google building a web browser first appeared. Online journals and U.S. newspapers stated at the time that Google was hiring former Microsoft web developers among others. It also came shortly after the final 1.0 release of Mozilla Firefox, which was surging in popularity and taking market share from Internet Explorer, which was suffering from major security problems.\n\nThe release announcement was originally scheduled for September 3, 2008, and a comic by Scott McCloud was to be sent to journalists and bloggers explaining the features within the new browser. Copies intended for Europe were shipped early and German blogger Philipp Lenssen of Google Blogoscoped made a scanned copy of the 38-page comic available on his website after receiving it on September 1, 2008. Google subsequently made the comic available on Google Books and mentioned it on their official blog along with an explanation for the early release. The product was allegedly named \"Chrome\" because Google wanted to minimize the chrome of the browser, though this meaning was added somewhat post-hoc, the code name before release apparently chosen from a connotation of speed.\n\nThe browser was first publicly released on September 2, 2008 for Windows XP and later, with 43 supported languages, officially a beta version, and as a stable public release on December 11, 2008.\n\nOn the same day, a CNET news item drew attention to a passage in the Terms of Service statement for the initial beta release, which seemed to grant to Google a license to all content transferred via the Chrome browser. This passage was inherited from the general Google terms of service. Google responded to this criticism immediately by stating that the language used was borrowed from other products, and removed this passage from the Terms of Service.\n\nChrome quickly gained about 1% usage share. After the initial surge, usage share dropped until it hit a low of 0.69% in October 2008. It then started rising again and by December 2008, Chrome again passed the 1% threshold.\n\nIn early January 2009, CNET reported that Google planned to release versions of Chrome for OS X and Linux in the first half of the year. The first official Chrome OS X and Linux developer previews were announced on June 4, 2009, with a blog post saying they were missing many features and were intended for early feedback rather than general use.\n\nIn December 2009, Google released beta versions of Chrome for OS X and Linux. Google Chrome 5.0, announced on May 25, 2010, was the first stable release to support all three platforms.\n\nChrome was one of the twelve browsers offered to European Economic Area users of Microsoft Windows in 2010.\n\nChrome was assembled from 25 different code libraries from Google and third parties such as Mozilla's Netscape Portable Runtime, Network Security Services, NPAPI (dropped as of version 45), Skia Graphics Engine, SQLite, and a number of other open-source projects. The V8 JavaScript virtual machine was considered a sufficiently important project to be split off (as was Adobe/Mozilla's Tamarin) and handled by a separate team in Denmark coordinated by Lars Bak at Aarhus. According to Google, existing implementations were designed \"for small programs, where the performance and interactivity of the system weren't that important\", but web applications such as Gmail \"are using the web browser to the fullest when it comes to DOM manipulations and JavaScript\", and therefore would significantly benefit from a JavaScript engine that could work faster.\n\nChrome initially used the WebKit rendering engine to display web pages. In 2013, they forked the WebCore component to create their own layout engine Blink. Based on WebKit, Blink only uses WebKit's \"WebCore\" components, while substituting other components, such as its own multi-process architecture, in place of WebKit's native implementation.\n\nChrome is internally tested with unit testing, \"automated user interface testing of scripted user actions\", fuzz testing, as well as WebKit's layout tests (99% of which Chrome is claimed to have passed), and against commonly accessed websites inside the Google index within 20–30 minutes.\n\nGoogle created Gears for Chrome, which added features for web developers typically relating to the building of web applications, including offline support. Google phased out Gears as the same functionality became available in the HTML5 standards.\n\nOn January 11, 2011, the Chrome product manager, Mike Jazayeri, announced that Chrome would remove H.264 video codec support for its HTML5 player, citing the desire to bring Google Chrome more in line with the currently available open codecs available in the Chromium project, which Chrome is based on. Despite this, on November 6, 2012, Google released a version of Chrome on Windows which added hardware-accelerated H.264 video decoding. In October 2013, Cisco announced that it was open-sourcing its H.264 codecs and will cover all fees required.\n\nOn February 7, 2012, Google launched \"Google Chrome Beta\" for Android 4.0 devices. On many new devices with Android 4.1 and later preinstalled, Chrome is the default browser.\n\nIn May 2017, Google announced a version of Chrome for augmented reality and virtual reality devices.\n\nGoogle Chrome features a minimalistic user interface, with its user-interface principles later being implemented into other browsers. For example, the merging of the address bar and search bar into the \"omnibox\". Chrome also has a reputation for strong browser performance.\n\nChrome allows users to synchronize their bookmarks, history, and settings across all devices with the browser installed by sending and receiving data through a chosen Google Account, which in turn updates all signed-in instances of Chrome. This can be authenticated either through Google credentials, or a sync passphrase.\n\nThe first release of Google Chrome passed both the Acid1 and Acid2 tests. Beginning with version 4.0, Chrome has passed all aspects of the Acid3 test.\n\n, Chrome has very good support for JavaScript/ECMAScript according to Ecma International's ECMAScript standards conformance Test 262 (version ES5.1 May 18, 2012). This test reports as the final score the number of tests a browser failed; hence lower scores are better. In this test, Chrome version 37 scored 10 failed/11578 passed. For comparison, Firefox 19 scored 193 failed/11752 passed and Internet Explorer 9 has a score of 600+ failed, while Internet Explorer 10 has a score of 7 failed.\n\nIn 2011, on the official CSS 2.1 test suite by standardization organization W3C, WebKit, the Chrome rendering engine, passes 89.75% (89.38% out of 99.59% covered) CSS 2.1 tests.\n\nOn the HTML5 web standards test, Chrome 41 scores 518 out of 555 points, placing it ahead of the five most popular desktop browsers. Chrome 41 on Android scores 510 out of 555 points. Chrome 44 scores 526, only 29 points less than the maximum score.\n\nChrome periodically retrieves updates of two blacklists (one for phishing and one for malware), and warns users when they attempt to visit a site flagged as potentially harmful. This service is also made available for use by others via a free public API called \"Google Safe Browsing API\".\n\nChrome uses a process-allocation model to sandbox tabs. Using the principle of least privilege, each tab process cannot interact with critical memory functions (e.g. OS memory, user files) or other tab processes similar to Microsoft's \"Protected Mode\" used by Internet Explorer 9 or greater. The \"Sandbox Team\" is said to have \"taken this existing process boundary and made it into a jail.\" This enforces a computer security model whereby there are two levels of multilevel security (\"user\" and \"sandbox\") and the \"sandbox\" can only respond to communication requests initiated by the \"user\". On Linux sandboxing uses the seccomp mode.\n\nSince 2008, Chrome has been faulted for not including a master password to prevent casual access to a user's passwords. Chrome developers have indicated that a master password does not provide real security against determined hackers and have refused to implement one. Bugs filed on this issue have been marked \"WontFix\". , the Windows version asks the user to enter the Windows account password before showing saved passwords.\n\nIn January 2015, TorrentFreak reported that using Chrome when connected to the internet using a VPN can be a serious security issue due to the browser's support for WebRTC.\n\nOn September 12, 2016, it was reported that starting with Chrome 56, users will be warned when they visit non-secure HTTP websites to encourage more sites to make the transition to HTTPS.\n\nNo security vulnerabilities in Chrome were exploited in the three years of Pwn2Own from 2009–2011.\n\nAt Pwn2Own 2012, Chrome was defeated by a French team who used zero day exploits in the version of Flash shipped with Chrome to take complete control of a fully patched 64-bit Windows 7 PC using a booby-trapped website that overcame Chrome's sandboxing.\n\nChrome was compromised twice at the 2012 CanSecWest Pwnium. Google's official response to the exploits was delivered by Jason Kersey, who congratulated the researchers, noting \"We also believe that both submissions are works of art and deserve wider sharing and recognition.\" Fixes for these vulnerabilities were deployed within 10 hours of the submission.\n\nA significant number of security vulnerabilities in Chrome occur in the Adobe Flash Player. For example, the 2016 Pwn2Own successful attack on Chrome relied on four security vulnerabilities. Two of the vulnerabilities were in Flash, one was in Chrome, and one was in the Windows kernel. In 2016, Google announced that it was planning to phase out Flash Player in Chrome, starting in version 53. The first phase of the plan is to disable Flash for ads and \"background analytics\", with the ultimate goal of disabling it completely by the end of the year, except on specific sites that Google has deemed to be broken without it. Flash would then be re-enabled with the exclusion of ads and background analytics on a site-by-site basis.\n\nLeaked documents published by WikiLeaks, codenamed Vault 7 and dated from 2013–2016, detail the capabilities of the CIA, such as the ability to compromise web browsers (including Google Chrome).\n\nGoogle introduced download scanning protection in Chrome 17. In February 2018, Google introduced an ad blocking feature based on recommendations from the Interactive Advertising Bureau. Sites that employ invasive ads are given a 30-day warning, after which their ads will be blocked. \"Consumer Reports\" recommended users install dedicated ad-blocking tools instead, which offer increased security against malware and tracking.\n\n\nThe private browsing feature called \"Incognito\" mode prevents the browser from permanently storing any history information, cookies, site data, or form inputs. Downloaded files and bookmarks will be stored. In addition, user activity is not hidden from visited websites or the Internet service provider.\n\nIncognito mode is similar to the private browsing feature in other web browsers. It doesn't prevent saving in all windows: \"You can switch between an incognito window and any regular windows you have open. You'll only be in incognito mode when you're using the incognito window\".\n\nOn June 2015 the Debian developer community discovered that Chromium 43 and Chrome 43 were programmed to download the \"Hotword Shared Module\", which could enable the OK Google voice recognition extension, although by default it was \"off\". This raised privacy concerns in the media. The module was removed in Chrome 45, which was released on 1 September 2015, and was only present in Chrome 43 and 44.\n\nChrome sends details about its users and their activities to Google through both optional and non-optional user tracking mechanisms.\n\nSome of the tracking mechanisms can be optionally enabled and disabled through the installation interface and through the browser's options dialog. Unofficial builds, such as SRWare Iron, seek to remove these features from the browser altogether. The RLZ feature is not included in the Chromium browser either.\n\nIn March 2010, Google devised a new method to collect installation statistics: the unique ID token included with Chrome is now only used for the first connection that Google Update makes to its server.\n\nThe optional suggestion service included in Google Chrome has been criticized because it provides the information typed into the Omnibox to the search provider before the user even hits return. This allows the search engine to provide URL suggestions, but also provides them with web usage information tied to an IP address.\n\nThe optional feature to use a web service to help resolve spelling errors has privacy implications.\n\nIn February 2012, Google announced that Chrome would implement the Do Not Track (DNT) standard to inform websites the user's desire to be not tracked. The protocol was implemented in version 23. In line with the W3's draft standard for DNT, it is turned off by default in Chrome.\n\nThe JavaScript virtual machine used by Chrome, the V8 JavaScript engine, has features such as \"dynamic code generation\", \"hidden class transitions\", and \"precise garbage collection\".\n\nIn 2008, several websites performed benchmark tests using the SunSpider JavaScript Benchmark tool as well as Google's own set of computationally intense benchmarks, which include ray tracing and constraint solving. They unanimously reported that Chrome performed much faster than all competitors against which it had been tested, including Safari (for Windows), Firefox 3.0, Internet Explorer 7, Opera, and Internet Explorer 8. However, on October 11, 2010, independent tests of JavaScript performance, Chrome has been scoring just behind Opera's Presto engine since it was updated in version 10.5.\n\nOn September 3, 2008, Mozilla responded by stating that their own TraceMonkey JavaScript engine (then in beta), was faster than Chrome's V8 engine in some tests. John Resig, Mozilla's JavaScript evangelist, further commented on the performance of different browsers on Google's own suite, commenting on Chrome's \"decimating\" of the other browsers, but he questioned whether Google's suite was representative of real programs. He stated that Firefox 3.0 performed poorly on recursion-intensive benchmarks, such as those of Google, because the Mozilla team had not implemented recursion-tracing yet.\n\nTwo weeks after Chrome's launch in 2008, the WebKit team announced a new JavaScript engine, SquirrelFish Extreme, citing a 36% speed improvement over Chrome's V8 engine.\n\nLike most major web browsers, Chrome uses DNS prefetching to speed up website lookups, as do other browsers like Firefox, Safari, Internet Explorer (called DNS Pre-resolution), and in Opera as a UserScript (not built-in).\n\nChrome formerly used their now deprecated SPDY protocol instead of only HTTP when communicating with servers that support it, such as Google services, Facebook, Twitter. SPDY support was removed in Chrome version 51.\n\nA multi-process architecture is implemented in Chrome where, by default, a separate process is allocated to each site instance and plugin. This procedure is termed process isolation, and it prevents tasks from interfering with each other, raising security and stability. An attacker successfully gaining access to one application gains access to no others, and failure in one instance results in a \"Sad Tab\" screen of death, similar to the well-known \"Sad Mac\", but only one tab crashes instead of the whole application. This strategy exacts a fixed per-process cost up front, but results in less memory bloat over time as fragmentation is confined to each instance and no longer needs further memory allocations. This architecture was adopted in Safari and Firefox.\n\nChrome includes a process management utility called \"Task Manager\" which lets users see what sites and plugins are using the most memory, downloading the most bytes and overusing the CPU and provides the ability to terminate them. Chrome Version 23 ensures its users an improved battery life for the systems supporting Chrome's GPU accelerated video decoding.\n\nBy default, the main user interface includes back, forward, refresh/cancel and menu buttons. A home button is not shown by default, but can be added through the Settings page to take the user to the new tab page or a custom home page.\n\nTabs are the main component of Chrome's user interface and have been moved to the top of the window rather than below the controls. This subtle change contrasts with many existing tabbed browsers which are based on windows and contain tabs. Tabs, with their state, can be transferred seamlessly between window containers by dragging. Each tab has its own set of controls, including the \"Omnibox\".\n\nThe \"Omnibox\" is a URL box that combines the functions of both the address bar and search box. If a user enters the URL of a site previously searched from, Chrome allows pressing \"Tab\" to search the site again directly from the Omnibox. When a user starts typing in the Omnibox, Chrome provides suggestions for previously visited sites (based on the URL or in-page text), popular websites (not necessarily visited before powered by Google Instant), and popular searches. Although Instant can be turned off, suggestions based on previously visited sites cannot be turned off. Chrome will also autocomplete the URLs of sites visited often. If a user types keywords into the Omnibox that don't match any previously visited websites and presses enter, Chrome will conduct the search using the default search engine.\n\nOne of Chrome's differentiating features is the \"New Tab Page\", which can replace the browser home page and is displayed when a new tab is created. Originally, this showed thumbnails of the nine most visited web sites, along with frequent searches, recent bookmarks, and recently closed tabs; similar to Internet Explorer and Firefox with Google Toolbar, or Opera's Speed Dial. In Google Chrome 2.0, the New Tab Page was updated to allow users to hide thumbnails they did not want to appear.\n\nStarting in version 3.0, the New Tab Page was revamped to display thumbnails of the eight most visited web sites. The thumbnails could be rearranged, pinned, and removed. Alternatively, a list of text links could be displayed instead of thumbnails. It also features a \"Recently closed\" bar that shows recently closed tabs and a \"tips\" section that displays hints and tricks for using the browser.\n\nChrome includes a \"bookmarks\" submenu that lists the user's bookmarks, provides easy access to Chrome's \"Bookmark Manager,\" and allows the user to toggle a \"bookmarks bar\" on or off.\n\nFor web developers, Chrome features an element inspector (Inspect Element), similar to the Firebug browser extension, which allows users to look into the DOM and see what makes up the webpage.\n\nChrome has special URLs that load application-specific pages instead of websites or files on disk. Chrome also has a built-in ability to enable experimental features. Originally called codice_1, the address was changed to codice_2 to make it less obvious to casual users.\n\nIn March 2011, Google introduced a new simplified logo to replace the previous 3D logo that had been used since the project's inception. Google designer Steve Rura explained the company reasoning for the change: \"Since Chrome is all about making your web experience as easy and clutter-free as possible, we refreshed the Chrome icon to better represent these sentiments. A simpler icon embodies the Chrome spirit to make the web quicker, lighter, and easier for all.\"\n\nIn September 2013, Google started making Chrome apps \"For your desktop.\" This meant offline access, desktop shortcuts, and less dependence on Chrome—apps launch in a window separate from Chrome, and look more like native applications.\n\nChrome allows users to make local desktop shortcuts that open web applications in the browser. The browser, when opened in this way, contains none of the regular interface except for the title bar, so as not to \"interrupt anything the user is trying to do\". This allows web applications to run alongside local software (similar to Mozilla Prism and Fluid).\n\nThis feature, according to Google, will be enhanced with the Chrome Web Store, a one-stop web-based web applications directory which opened in December 2010.\n\nAnnounced on December 7, 2010, the Chrome Web Store allows users to install web applications as extensions to the browser, although most of these extensions function simply as links to popular web pages and/or games, but some of the apps like Springpad do provide extra features like offline access. The themes and extensions have also been tightly integrated into the new store, allowing users to search the entire catalog of Chrome extras.\n\nThe Chrome Web Store was opened on February 11, 2011, with the release of Google Chrome 9.0.\n\nGoogle Chrome Extensions are browser extensions that modify Google Chrome. These extensions are written using web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, and CSS. They are distributed through Chrome Web Store (formerly Google Chrome Extensions Gallery). All users with a Google Account are able to add extensions after developing them. Many Chrome extensions, once installed, have access to the user's data. There are three levels of permissions that an app or extension may request.\n\nOn September 9, 2009, Google enabled extensions by default on Chrome's developer channel, and provided several sample extensions for testing. In December, the Google Chrome Extensions Gallery beta began with approximately 300 extensions. It was launched on January 25, 2010 along with Google Chrome 4.0, containing approximately 1500 extensions.\n\nOn May 27, 2014, Google issued an update to Chrome preventing Windows users from installing extensions obtained outside the Chrome Web Store.\n\nStarting with Google Chrome 3.0, users can install themes to alter the appearance of the browser. Many free third-party themes are provided in an online gallery, accessible through a \"Get themes\" button in Chrome's options.\n\nStarting with Google Chrome 4.1 the application added a built-in translation bar using Google Translate. Translation is currently available for 52 languages. When Chrome detects a foreign language other than the user's preferred language as set during the installation time, it asks the user whether or not to translate.\n\nThe first production release on December 11, 2008, marked the end of the initial Beta test period and the beginning of Production. Shortly thereafter, on January 8, 2009, Google announced an updated release system with three channels: Stable (corresponding to the traditional Production), Beta, and Developer preview (also called the \"Dev\" channel). Where there were before only two channels: Beta and Developer, now there were three. Concurrently, all Developer channel users were moved to the Beta channel along with the promoted Developer release. Google explained that now the Developer channel builds would be less stable and polished than those from the initial Google Chrome's Beta period. Beta users could opt back to the Developer channel as desired.\n\nEach channel has its own release cycle and stability level. The Stable channel updated roughly quarterly, with features and fixes that passed \"thorough\" testing in the Beta channel. Beta updated roughly monthly, with \"stable and complete\" features migrated from the Developer channel. The Developer channel updated once or twice per week and was where ideas and features were first publicly exposed \"(and sometimes fail) and can be very unstable at times\". [Quoted remarks from Google's policy announcements.]\n\nOn July 22, 2010, Google announced it would ramp up the speed at which it releases new stable versions; the release cycles were shortened from quarterly to six weeks for major Stable updates. Beta channel releases now come roughly at the same rate as Stable releases, though approximately one month in advance, while Dev channel releases appear roughly once or twice weekly, allowing time for basic release-critical testing. This faster release cycle also brought a fourth channel: the \"Canary\" channel, updated daily from a build produced at 09:00 UTC from the most stable of the last 40 revisions. The name refers to the practice of using canaries in coal mines, so if a change \"kills\" Chrome Canary, it will be blocked from migrating down to the Developer channel, at least until fixed in a subsequent Canary build. Canary is \"the most bleeding-edge official version of Chrome and somewhat of a mix between Chrome dev and the Chromium snapshot builds\". Canary releases run side-by-side with any other channel; it is not linked to the other Google Chrome installation and can therefore run different synchronization profiles, themes, and browser preferences. This ensures that fallback functionality remains even when some Canary update may contain release-breaking bugs. It does not natively include the option to be the default browser, although on Windows and OS X it can be set through System Preferences. Canary was Windows-only at first; an OS X version was released on May 3, 2011.\n\nThe Chrome beta channel for Android was launched on January 10, 2013; like Canary, it runs side-by-side with the stable channel for Android. Chrome Dev for Android was launched on April 29, 2015.\n\nAll Chrome channels are automatically distributed according to their respective release cycles. The mechanism differs by platform. On Windows, it uses Google Update, and auto-update can be controlled via Group Policy. Alternatively, users may download a standalone installer of a version of Chrome that does not auto-update. On OS X, it uses Google Update Service, and auto-update can be controlled via the OS X \"defaults\" system. On Linux, it lets the system's normal package management system supply the updates. This auto-updating behavior is a key difference from Chromium, the non-branded open-source browser which forms the core of Google Chrome. Because Chromium also serves as the pre-release development trunk for Chrome, its revisions are provided as source code and buildable snapshots are produced continuously with each new commit, requiring users to manage their own browser updates.\n\nReleases are identified by a four-part version number, e.g. 42.0.2311.90 (Windows Stable release April 14, 2015). The components are major.minor.build.patch.\n\n\nChromium and Chrome release schedules are linked through Chromium\n(\"Major\") version Branch Point dates, published annually. The Branch Points precede the final Chrome Developer build (initial) release by 4 days (nearly always) and the Chrome Stable initial release by roughly 53 days.\n\nExample: The version 42 Branch Point was February 20, 2015. Developer builds stopped advancing at \"build\" 2311 with release 42.0.2311.4 on February 24, 4 days later. The first Stable release, 42.0.2311.90, was April 14, 2015, 53 days after the Branch Point.\n\nChrome supports color management by using the system-provided ICC v2 and v4 support on macOS, and from version 22 supports ICC v2 profiles by default on other platforms.\n\nIn Chrome, when not connected to the Internet and an error message displaying \"There is no Internet\" is shown, on the top, an \"8-bit\" \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" is shown, but when pressing the space bar on a keyboard, mouse-clicking on it or tapping it on touch devices, the T-Rex instantly jumps once and dashes across a cactus-ridden desert, revealing it to be an Easter egg in the form of a platform game. The game itself is an infinite runner, and there is no time limit in the game as it progresses faster and periodically tints to a black background. A school Chromebook administrator can disable the game.\n\nChrome runs on:\n\n, stable 32-bit and 64-bit builds are available for Windows, with only 64-bit stable builds available for Linux and macOS. 64-bit Windows builds became available in the developer channel and as canary builds on June 3, 2014, in beta channel on July 30, 2014, and in stable channel on August 26, 2014. 64-bit OS X builds became available as canary builds on November 7, 2013, in beta channel on October 9, 2014, and in stable channel on November 18, 2014.\n\nA beta version for Android 4.0 devices was launched on February 7, 2012, available for a limited number of countries from Google Play.\n\nNotable features: synchronization with desktop Chrome to provide the same bookmarks and view the same browser tabs, page pre-rendering, hardware acceleration.\n\nMany of the latest HTML5 features: almost all of the Web Platform's features: GPU-accelerated canvas, including CSS 3D Transforms, CSS animations, SVG, WebSocket (including binary messages), Dedicated Workers; it has overflow scroll support, strong HTML5 video support, and new capabilities such as IndexedDB, WebWorkers, Application Cache and the File APIs, date- and time-pickers, parts of the Media Capture API. Also supports mobile oriented features such as Device Orientation and Geolocation.\n\nMobile customizations: swipe gesture tab switching, link preview allows zooming in on (multiple) links to ensure the desired one is clicked, font size boosting to ensure readability regardless of the zoom level.\n\nFeatures missing in the mobile version include sandboxed tabs, Safe Browsing, apps or extensions, Adobe Flash (now and in future), Native Client.\n\nDevelopment changes: remote debugging, part of the browser layer has been implemented in Java, communicating with the rest of the Chromium and WebKit code through Java Native Bindings. The code of Chrome for Android is a fork of the Chromium project. It is a priority to upstream most new and modified code to Chromium and WebKit to resolve the fork.\n\nThe April 17, 2012 update, included the availability to access in 31 additional languages and in all countries where Google Play is available. A desktop version of a website can also be requested as opposed to a mobile version. In addition, Android users can now add bookmarks to their Android home screens if they choose and decide which apps should handle links opened in Chrome.\n\nOn June 27, 2012, Google Chrome for Android exited beta and became stable.\n\nChrome 18.0.1026311, released on September 26, 2012, was the first version of Chrome for Android to support mobile devices based on Intel x86.\n\nStarting from version 25, the Chrome version for Android is aligned with the desktop version, and usually new stable releases are available at the same time between the Android and the desktop version. Google released a separate Chrome for Android beta channel on January 10, 2013, with version 25. a separate beta version of Chrome is available in the Google Play store it can run side-by-side with the stable release.\n\nGoogle Chrome is the basis of Google's Chrome OS operating system that ships on specific hardware from Google's manufacturing partners. The user interface has a minimalist design resembling the Google Chrome browser. Chrome OS is aimed at users who spend most of their computer time on the Web; the only applications on the devices are a browser incorporating a media player and a file manager.\n\nGoogle announced Chrome OS on July 7, 2009.\n\nChrome is available on Apple's mobile iOS operating system as \"Google Chrome for iOS.\" Released in the Apple App Store on June 26, 2012, it supports the iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch, and requires that the device has iOS 10.0 or greater installed. In accordance with Apple's requirements for browsers released through their App Store, this version of Chrome uses the \"iOS WebKit\" which is Apple's own mobile rendering engine and components, developed for their \"Safari\" browser therefore it is restricted from using Google's own V8 JavaScript engine. Chrome is the default web browser for the iOS \"Gmail\" application, but it cannot be used as the device-wide default application for opening webpages because Apple has not provided iOS users with the option to change the default from Safari.\n\nIn a review by Chitika, Chrome was noted as having 1.5% of the iOS web browser market . In October 2013, Chrome had 3% of the iOS browser market.\n\nOn Linux distributions, support for 32-bit Intel processors ended in March 2016 although Chromium is still supported . As of Chrome version 26, Linux installations of the browser may be updated only on systems that support GCC v4.6 and GTK v2.24 or later. Thus deprecated systems include (for example) Debian 6's 2.20, and RHEL 6's 2.18.\n\nSupport for Google Chrome on Windows XP and Windows Vista ended in April 2016. The last release of Google Chrome that can be run on Windows XP and Windows Vista was version 49.0.2623.112, released on April 7, 2016, then re-released on April 11, 2016.\n\n\"Windows 8 mode\" was introduced in 2012 and has since been discontinued. It was provided to developer channel, which enabled Windows 8 and 8.1 users to run Chrome with a full-screen, tablet-optimized interface, with access to snapping, sharing, and search functionalities. In October 2013, Windows 8 mode on developer channel changed to use a desktop environment mimicking the interface of Chrome OS with a dedicated windowing system and taskbar for web apps. This was discontinued as of version 49 and users that have upgraded to Windows 10 will lose this feature.\n\nGoogle dropped support for Mac OS X 10.5 with the release of Chrome 21. Support for 32-bit versions of Chrome ended in October 2014 with the release of Chrome 39. Support for Mac OS X 10.6, 10.7, and 10.8 ended in April 2016 with the release of Chrome 50. Support for OS X 10.9 ended in April 2018 with the release of Chrome 66.\n\nGoogle Chrome was met with acclaim upon release. In 2008, Matthew Moore of \"The Daily Telegraph\" summarized the verdict of early reviewers: \"Google Chrome is attractive, fast and has some impressive new features...\"\n\nInitially, Microsoft reportedly played down the threat from Chrome and predicted that most people would embrace Internet Explorer 8. Opera Software said that \"Chrome will strengthen the Web as the biggest application platform in the world\". But by February 25, 2010, \"BusinessWeek\" had reported that \"For the first time in years, energy and resources are being poured into browsers, the ubiquitous programs for accessing content on the Web. Credit for this trend a boon to consumers goes to two parties. The first is Google, whose big plans for the Chrome browser have shaken Microsoft out of its competitive torpor and forced the software giant to pay fresh attention to its own browser, Internet Explorer. Microsoft all but ceased efforts to enhance IE after it triumphed in the last browser war, sending Netscape to its doom. Now it's back in gear.\" Mozilla said that Chrome's introduction into the web browser market comes as \"no real surprise\", that \"Chrome is not aimed at competing with Firefox\", and furthermore that it would not affect Google's revenue relationship with Mozilla.\n\nChrome overtook Firefox in November 2011, in worldwide usage. , according to StatCounter, Google Chrome had 62% worldwide desktop usage share, making it the most widely used web browser, while Firefox had 16% and Internet Explorer had 12%.\n\nAlong with Safari and Mozilla Firefox, Chrome receives a weekend \"bump\", which boosts its market share by as much as three percentage points on week-ends, at the expense of Internet Explorer.\n\nIt was reported by StatCounter, a web analytics company, that for the single day of Sunday, March 18, 2012, Chrome was the most used web browser in the world for the first time. Chrome secured 32.7% of the global web browsing on that day, while Internet Explorer followed closely behind with 32.5%.\n\nFrom May 14–21, 2012, Google Chrome was for the first time responsible for more Internet traffic than Microsoft's Internet Explorer, which long had held its spot as the most used web browser in the world. According to StatCounter, 31.88% of web traffic was generated by Chrome for a sustained period of one week and 31.47% by Internet Explorer. Though Chrome had topped Internet Explorer for single day's usage in the past, this was the first time it had led for one full week.\n\nAt the 2012 Google I/O developers' conference, Google claimed that there were 310 million active users of Chrome, almost double the number in 2011, which was stated as 160 million active users.\n\nIn June 2013, according to StatCounter, Chrome overtook Internet Explorer for the first time in the US.\n\nIn August 2013, Chrome was used by 43% of internet users worldwide. This study was done by Statista, which also noted that in North America, 36% of people use Chrome, the lowest in the world.\n\n, Chrome is the most used browser in virtually all countries, with most exceptions in Africa.\n\nIn December 2010, Google announced that to make it easier for businesses to use Chrome they would provide an official Chrome MSI package. For business use it is helpful to have full-fledged MSI packages that can be customized via transform files (.mst) but the MSI provided with Chrome is only a very limited MSI wrapper fitted around the normal installer, and many businesses find that this arrangement does not meet their needs. The normal downloaded Chrome installer puts the browser in the user's local app data directory and provides invisible background updates, but the MSI package will allow installation at the system level, providing system administrators control over the update process it was formerly possible only when Chrome was installed using Google Pack. Google also created group policy objects to fine tune the behavior of Chrome in the business environment, for example by setting automatic updates interval, disabling auto-updates, and configuring a home page. Until version 24 the software is known not to be ready for enterprise deployments with roaming profiles or Terminal Server/Citrix environments.\n\nIn September 2008, Google released a large portion of Chrome's source code as an open-source project called Chromium. This move enabled third-party developers to study the underlying source code and to help port the browser to the macOS and Linux operating systems. The Google-authored portion of Chromium is released under the permissive BSD license. Other portions of the source code are subject to a variety of open-source licenses. Chromium is similar to Chrome, but lacks built-in automatic updates and built-in Flash player, as well as Google branding and has a blue-colored logo instead of the multicolored Google logo. Chromium does not implement user RLZ tracking. Initially, the Google Chrome PDF viewer, PDFium, was excluded from Chromium, but was later made open-source in May 2014. PDFium can be used to fill PDF forms.\n\nIt is possible to develop applications, extensions, and themes for Chrome. They are zipped in a .crx file and contain a manifest file that specifies basic information (such as version, name, description, privileges, etc.), and other files for the user interface (icons, popups, etc.). Google has an official developer's guide. Chrome has its own web store where users and developers can upload and download these applications and extensions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935388", "title": "IT law", "text": "IT law\n\nInformation technology law (also called \"cyberlaw\") concerns the law of information technology, including computing and the internet. It is related to legal informatics, and governs the digital dissemination of both (digitalized) information and software, information security and electronic commerce. aspects and it has been described as \"paper laws\" for a \"paperless environment\". It raises specific issues of intellectual property in computing and online, contract law, privacy, freedom of expression, and jurisdiction. \n\nThe regulation of information technology, through computing and the internet evolved out of the development of the first publicly funded networks, such as ARPANET and NSFNET in the United States or JANET in the United Kingdom.\n\nIT law does not constitute a separate area of law rather it encompasses aspects of contract, intellectual property, privacy and data protection laws. Intellectual property is an important component of IT law, including copyright, rules on fair use, and special rules on copy protection for digital media, and circumvention of such schemes. The area of software patents is controversial, and still evolving in Europe and elsewhere.\n\nThe related topics of software licenses, end user license agreements, free software licenses and open-source licenses can involve discussion of product liability, professional liability of individual developers, warranties, contract law, trade secrets and intellectual property.\n\nIn various countries, areas of the computing and communication industries are regulated – often strictly – by governmental bodies.\n\nThere are rules on the uses to which computers and computer networks may be put, in particular there are rules on unauthorized access, data privacy and spamming. There are also limits on the use of encryption and of equipment which may be used to defeat copy protection schemes. The export of hardware and software between certain states within the United States is also controlled.\n\nThere are laws governing trade on the Internet, taxation, consumer protection, and advertising.\n\nThere are laws on censorship versus freedom of expression, rules on public access to government information, and individual access to information held on them by private bodies. There are laws on what data must be retained for law enforcement, and what may not be gathered or retained, for privacy reasons.\n\nIn certain circumstances and jurisdictions, computer communications may be used in evidence, and to establish contracts.\nNew methods of tapping and surveillance made possible by computers have wildly differing rules on how they may be used by law enforcement bodies and as evidence in court.\n\nComputerized voting technology, from polling machines to internet and mobile-phone voting, raise a host of legal issues.\n\nSome states limit access to the Internet, by law as well as by technical means.\n\nIssues of jurisdiction and sovereignty have quickly come to the fore in the era of the Internet.\n\nJurisdiction is an aspect of state sovereignty and it refers to judicial, legislative and administrative competence. Although jurisdiction is an aspect of sovereignty, it is not coextensive with it. The laws of a nation may have extraterritorial impact extending the jurisdiction beyond the sovereign and territorial limits of that nation. This is particularly problematic as the medium of the Internet does not explicitly recognize sovereignty and territorial limitations. There is no uniform, international jurisdictional law of universal application, and such questions are generally a matter of conflict of laws, particularly private international law. An example would be where the contents of a web site are legal in one country and illegal in another. In the absence of a uniform jurisdictional code, legal practitioners are generally left with a conflict of law issue.\n\nAnother major problem of cyberlaw lies in whether to treat the Internet as if it were physical space (and thus subject to a given jurisdiction's laws) or to act as if the Internet is a world unto itself (and therefore free of such restraints). Those who favor the latter view often feel that government should leave the Internet community to self-regulate. John Perry Barlow, for example, has addressed the governments of the world and stated, \"Where there are real conflicts, where there are wrongs, we will identify them and address them by our means. We are forming our own Social Contract. This governance will arise according to the conditions of our world, not yours. Our world is different\". A more balanced alternative is the Declaration of Cybersecession: \"Human beings possess a mind, which they are absolutely free to inhabit with no legal constraints. Human civilization is developing its own (collective) mind. All we want is to be free to inhabit it with no legal constraints. Since you make sure we cannot harm you, you have no ethical right to intrude our lives. So stop intruding!\" Other scholars argue for more of a compromise between the two notions, such as Lawrence Lessig's argument that \"The problem for law is to work out how the norms of the two communities are to apply given that the subject to whom they apply may be in both places at once\" (Lessig, Code 190).\n\nWith the internationalism of the Internet, jurisdiction is a much more tricky area than before, and courts in different countries have taken various views on whether they have jurisdiction over items published on the Internet, or business agreements entered into over the Internet. This can cover areas from contract law, trading standards and tax, through rules on unauthorized access, data privacy and spamming to more political areas such as freedom of speech, censorship, libel or sedition.\n\nCertainly, the frontier idea that the law does not apply in \"Cyberspace\" is not true. In fact, conflicting laws from different jurisdictions may apply, simultaneously, to the same event. The Internet does not tend to make geographical and jurisdictional boundaries clear, but Internet users remain in physical jurisdictions and are subject to laws independent of their presence on the Internet. As such, a single transaction may involve the laws of at least three jurisdictions:\nSo a user in one of the United States conducting a transaction with another user in Britain through a server in Canada could theoretically be subject to the laws of all three countries as they relate to the transaction at hand.\n\nIn practical terms, a user of the Internet is subject to the laws of the state or nation within which he or she goes online. Thus, in the U.S., Jake Baker faced criminal charges for his e-conduct, and numerous users of peer-to-peer file-sharing software were subject to civil lawsuits for copyright infringement. This system runs into conflicts, however, when these suits are international in nature. Simply put, legal conduct in one nation may be decidedly illegal in another. In fact, even different standards concerning the burden of proof in a civil case can cause jurisdictional problems. For example, an American celebrity, claiming to be insulted by an online American magazine, faces a difficult task of winning a lawsuit against that magazine for libel. But if the celebrity has ties, economic or otherwise, to England, he or she can sue for libel in the British court system, where the standard of \"libelous speech\" is far lower.\n\nInternet governance is a live issue in international fora such as the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), and the role of the current US-based co-ordinating body, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) was discussed in the UN-sponsored World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) in December 2003\n\nThe law that regulates the Internet must be considered in the context of the geographic scope of the Internet and political borders that are crossed in the process of sending data around the globe. The unique global structure of the Internet raises not only jurisdictional issues, that is, the authority to make and enforce laws affecting the Internet, but also questions concerning the nature of the laws themselves.\n\nIn their essay \"Law and Borders – The Rise of Law in Cyberspace\", David R. Johnson and David G. Post argue that it became necessary for the Internet to govern itself and instead of obeying the laws of a particular country, \"Internet citizens\" will obey the laws of electronic entities like service providers. Instead of identifying as a physical person, Internet citizens will be known by their usernames or email addresses (or, more recently, by their Facebook accounts). Over time, suggestions that the Internet can be self-regulated as being its own trans-national \"nation\" are being supplanted by a multitude of external and internal regulators and forces, both governmental and private, at many different levels. The nature of Internet law remains a legal paradigm shift, very much in the process of development.\n\nLeaving aside the most obvious examples of governmental content monitoring and internet censorship in nations like China, Saudi Arabia, Iran, there are four primary forces or modes of regulation of the Internet derived from a socioeconomic theory referred to as Pathetic dot theory by Lawrence Lessig in his book, \"Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace\":\n\nThese forces or regulators of the Internet do not act independently of each other. For example, governmental laws may be influenced by greater societal norms, and markets affected by the nature and quality of the code that operates a particular system.\n\nAnother major area of interest is net neutrality, which affects the regulation of the infrastructure of the Internet. Though not obvious to most Internet users, every packet of data sent and received by every user on the Internet passes through routers and transmission infrastructure owned by a collection of private and public entities, including telecommunications companies, universities, and governments. This is turning into one of the most critical aspects of cyber Law and has immediate jurisdictional implications, as laws in force in one jurisdiction have the potential to have dramatic effects in other jurisdictions when host servers or telecommunications companies are affected.\nVery recently, Netherlands became the first country in Europe and the second in the world, after Chile to pass law relating to it. In U.S, on 12 March 2015, the FCC released the specific details of its new net neutrality rule.And on 13 April 2015, the FCC published the final rule on its new regulations\n\nArticle 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights calls for the protection of free expression in all media.\n\nIn comparison to traditional print-based media, the accessibility and relative anonymity of cyber space has torn down traditional barriers between an individual and his or her ability to publish. Any person with an internet connection has the potential to reach an audience of millions.\nThese complexities have taken many forms, three notable examples being the Jake Baker incident, in which the limits of obscene Internet postings were at issue, the controversial distribution of the DeCSS code, and Gutnick v Dow Jones, in which libel laws were considered in the context of online publishing. The last example was particularly significant because it epitomized the complexities inherent to applying one country's laws (nation-specific by definition) to the internet (international by nature). In 2003, Jonathan Zittrain considered this issue in his paper, \"Be Careful What You Ask For: Reconciling a Global Internet and Local Law\".\n\nIn the UK the case of Keith-Smith v Williams confirmed that existing libel laws applied to internet discussions.\n\nIn terms of the tort liability of ISPs and hosts of internet forums, Section 230(c) of the Communications Decency Act may provide immunity in the United States.\n\nIn many countries, speech through cyberspace has proven to be another means of communication which has been regulated by the government. The \"Open Net Initiative\", whose mission statement is \"to investigate and challenge state filtration and surveillance practices\" to \"...generate a credible picture of these practices,\" has released numerous reports documenting the filtration of internet-speech in various countries. While China has thus far proven to be the most rigorous in its attempts to filter unwanted parts of the internet from its citizens, many other countries – including Singapore, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Tunisia – have engaged in similar practices of Internet censorship. In one of the most vivid examples of information control, the Chinese government for a short time transparently forwarded requests to the Google search engine to its own, state-controlled search engines.\n\nThese examples of filtration bring to light many underlying questions concerning the freedom of speech. For example, does the government have a legitimate role in limiting access to information? And if so, what forms of regulation are acceptable? For example, some argue that the blocking of \"blogspot\" and other websites in India failed to reconcile the conflicting interests of speech and expression on the one hand and legitimate government concerns on the other hand.\n\nAt the close of the 19th century, concerns about privacy captivated the general public, and led to the 1890 publication of Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis: \"The Right to Privacy\". The vitality of this article can be seen today, when examining the USSC decision of \"Kyllo v. United States\", 533 U.S. 27 (2001) where it is cited by the majority, those in concurrence, and even those in dissent.\n\nThe motivation of both authors to write such an article is heavily debated amongst scholars, however, two developments during this time give some insight to the reasons behind it. First, the sensationalistic press and the concurrent rise and use of \"yellow journalism\" to promote the sale of newspapers in the time following the Civil War brought privacy to the forefront of the public eye. The other reason that brought privacy to the forefront of public concern was the technological development of \"instant photography\". This article set the stage for all privacy legislation to follow during the 20 and 21st centuries.\n\nIn 1967, the United States Supreme Court decision in \"Katz v United States\", 389 U.S. 347 (1967) established what is known as the Reasonable Expectation of Privacy Test to determine the applicability of the Fourth Amendment in a given situation. It should be noted that the test was not noted by the majority, but instead it was articulated by the concurring opinion of Justice Harlan. Under this test, 1) a person must exhibit an \"actual (subjective) expectation of privacy\" and 2) \"the expectation [must] be one that society is prepared to recognize as 'reasonable'\".\n\nInspired by the Watergate scandal, the United States Congress enacted the Privacy Act of 1974 just four months after the resignation of then President Richard Nixon. In passing this Act, Congress found that \"the privacy of an individual is directly affected by the collection, maintenance, use, and dissemination of personal information by Federal agencies\" and that \"the increasing use of computers and sophisticated information technology, while essential to the efficient operations of the Government, has greatly magnified the harm to individual privacy that can occur from any collection, maintenance, use, or dissemination of personal information\".\n\nCodified at 50 U.S.C. §§ 1801-1811, this act establishes standards and procedures for use of electronic surveillance to collect \"foreign intelligence\" within the United States. §1804(a)(7)(B). FISA overrides the Electronic Communications Privacy Act during investigations when foreign intelligence is \"a significant purpose\" of said investigation. (a)(7)(B) and §1823(a)(7)(B). Another interesting result of FISA, is the creation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). All FISA orders are reviewed by this special court of federal district judges. The FISC meets in secret, with all proceedings usually also held from both the public eye and those targets of the desired surveillance.<br>\nFor more information see: Foreign Intelligence Act\n\nThe ECPA represents an effort by the United States Congress to modernize federal wiretap law. The ECPA amended Title III (see: Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968) and included two new acts in response to developing computer technology and communication networks. Thus the ECPA in the domestic venue into three parts: 1) Wiretap Act, 2) Stored Communications Act, and 3) The Pen Register Act.\n\nThe DPPA was passed in response to states selling motor vehicle records to private industry. These records contained personal information such as name, address, phone number, SSN, medical information, height, weight, gender, eye color, photograph and date of birth. In 1994, Congress passed the Driver's Privacy Protection (DPPA), 18 U.S.C. §§ 2721-2725, to cease this activity.<br>\nFor more information see: Driver's Privacy Protection Act\n\n-This act authorizes widespread sharing of personal information by financial institutions such as banks, insurers, and investment companies. The GLBA permits sharing of personal information between companies joined together or affiliated as well as those companies unaffiliated. To protect privacy, the act requires a variety of agencies such as the SEC, FTC, etc. to establish \"appropriate standards for the financial institutions subject to their jurisdiction\" to \"insure security and confidentiality of customer records and information\" and \"protect against unauthorized access\" to this information. <br>\nFor more information see: Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act\n\n-Passed by Congress in 2002, the Homeland Security Act, , consolidated 22 federal agencies into what is commonly known today as the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The HSA, also created a Privacy Office under the DoHS. The Secretary of Homeland Security must \"appoint a senior official to assume primary responsibility for privacy policy.\" This privacy official's responsibilities include but are not limited to: ensuring compliance with the Privacy Act of 1974, evaluating \"legislative and regulatory proposals involving the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information by the Federal Government\", while also preparing an annual report to Congress.<br>\nFor more information see: Homeland Security Act\n\n-This Act mandates that intelligence be \"provided in its most shareable form\" that the heads of intelligence agencies and federal departments \"promote a culture of information sharing.\" The IRTPA also sought to establish protection of privacy and civil liberties by setting up a five-member Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. This Board offers advice to both the President of the United States and the entire executive branch of the Federal Government concerning its actions to ensure that the branch's information sharing policies are adequately protecting privacy and civil liberties.<br>\nFor more information see: Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act\n\nThe Computer Misuse Act 1990 enacted by Great Britain on 29 June 1990, and which came into force on 29 August 1990, is an example of one of the earliest of such legal enactments. This Act was enacted with an express purpose of making \"provision for securing computer material against unauthorized access or modification.\" Certain major provisions of the Computer Misuse Act 1990 relate to:\n\nThe impact of the Computer Misuse Act 1990 has been limited and with the adoption of the Council of Europe adopts its Convention on Cyber-Crime, it has been indicated that amending legislation would be introduced in parliamentary session 2004–05 in order to rectify possible gaps in its coverage, which are many.\n\nThe CMA 1990 has many weaknesses; the most notable is its inability to cater for, or provide suitable protection against, a host of high tech attacks/crimes which have become more prevalent in the last decade. Certain attacks such as DDOS and BOTNET attacks can not be effectively brought to justice under the CMA. This act has been under review for a number of years. Computer crimes such as electronic theft are usually prosecuted in the UK under the legislation that caters for traditional theft (Theft Act 1968), because the CMA is so ineffective.\n\nAn example of information technology law is India's Information Technology Act, 2000, which was substantially amended in 2008. The IT Act, 2000 came into force on 17 October 2000. This Act applies to whole of India, and its provisions also apply to any offense or contravention, committed even outside the territorial jurisdiction of Republic of India, by any person irrespective of his nationality. In order to attract provisions of this Act, such an offence or contravention should involve a computer, computer system, or computer network located in India. The IT Act 2000 provides an extraterritorial applicability to its provisions by virtue of section 1(2) read with section 75. This Act has 90 sections.\n\nIndia's The Information Technology Act 2000 has tried to assimilate legal principles available in several such laws (relating to information technology) enacted earlier in several other countries, as also various guidelines pertaining to information technology law. The Act gives legal validity to electronic contracts, recognition of electronic signatures. This is a modern legislation which makes acts like hacking, data theft, spreading of virus, identity theft, defamation (sending offensive messages) pornography, child pornography, cyber terrorism, a criminal offence. The Act is supplemented by a number of rules which includes rules for, cyber cafes, electronic service delivery, data security, blocking of websites. It also has rules for observance of due diligence by internet intermediaries (ISP's, network service providers,cyber cafes, etc.). Any person affected by data theft, hacking, spreading of viruses can apply for compensation from Adjudicator appointed under Section 46 as well as file a criminal complaint. Appeal from adjudicator lies to Cyber Appellate Tribunal.\n\n\n\nDigital evidence collection and cyber forensics remain at a very nascent stage in India with few experts and less than adequate infrastructure. In recent cases, Indian Judiciary has recognized that tampering with digital evidence is very easy.\n\nMany Asian and Middle Eastern nations use any number of combinations of code-based regulation (one of Lessig's four methods of net regulation) to block material that their governments have deemed inappropriate for their citizens to view. PRC, Saudi Arabia and Iran are three examples of nations that have achieved high degrees of success in regulating their citizens' access to the Internet.\n\n\n\n\nThe Information Technology Laws of various countries, and / or their criminal laws generally stipulate enforcement agencies, entrusted with the task of enforcing the legal provisions and requirements.\n\nMany United States federal agencies oversee the use of information technology. Their regulations are promulgated in the Code of Federal Regulations of the United States.\n\nOver 25 U.S. federal agencies have regulations concerning the use of digital and electronic signatures.\n\nA live example of such an enforcement agency is Cyber Crime Police Station, Bangalore, India's first exclusive Cyber Crime enforcement agency.\n\n\n\nCenters and groups for the study of cyberlaw and related areas\n\nTopics related to cyberlaw\n\nConferences related to cyberlaw\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4324128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4324128", "title": "Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989", "text": "Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989\n\nThe Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 is an International Labour Organization Convention, also known as ILO-convention 169, or C169. It is the major binding international convention concerning indigenous peoples, and a forerunner of the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.\n\nIt was established in 1989, with the preamble stating:\nNoting the international standards contained in the Indigenous and Tribal Populations Convention and Recommendation, 1957, and\n\nRecalling the terms of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the many international instruments on the prevention of discrimination, and\n\nConsidering that the developments which have taken place in international law since 1957, as well as developments in the situation of indigenous and tribal peoples in all regions of the world, have made it appropriate to adopt new international standards on the subject with a view to removing the assimilationist orientation of the earlier standards, and\n\nRecognising the aspirations of these peoples to exercise control over their own institutions, ways of life and economic development and to maintain and develop their identities, languages and religions, within the framework of the States in which they live, and\n\nNoting that in many parts of the world these peoples are unable to enjoy their fundamental human rights to the same degree as the rest of the population of the States within which they live, and that their laws, values, customs and perspectives have often been eroded, and...\n\nThe convention is made of a Preamble, followed by forty-four articles, divided in ten parts. These are:\n\n\nThis Convention revised Convention C107, the Indigenous and Tribal Populations Convention, 1957. Some of the nations ratifying the 1989 Convention \"denounced\" the 1957 Convention.\n\nThe ILO 169 convention is the most important operative international law guaranteeing the rights of indigenous peoples. Its strength, however, is dependent on a high number of ratifications among nations.\n\nThe revision to the Convention 107 forbade governments from pursuing approaches deemed integrationist and assimilationist. It asserts the rights of indigenous peoples to choose to integrate or to maintain their cultural and political independence. Articles 8–10 recognize the cultures, traditions, and special circumstances of indigenous tribal peoples.\n\nIn November 2009, a court decision in Chile, considered to be a landmark in indigenous rights concerns, made use of the ILO convention law. The court ruled unanimously in favor of granting a water flow of 9 liters per second to Chusmiza and Usmagama communities. The legal dispute had dragged for 14 years, and centers on community water rights in one of the driest deserts on the planet. The Supreme Court decision on Aymara water rights upholds rulings by both the Pozo Almonte tribunal and the Iquique Court of Appeals, and marks the first judicial application of ILO Convention 169 in Chile. Prior to this decision, some protests had escalated over the failure to respect the Convention 169 in Chile. Mapuche leaders filed an injunction against Michelle Bachelet and minister of the presidency José Antonio Viera Gallo, who is also coordinator of indigenous affairs, with the argument that the government had failed to fully comply with the Convention 169 clause on the right to \"prior consultation,\" which must be carried out \"in good faith and in a form appropriate to the circumstances, with the objective of achieving agreement or consent to the proposed measures,\" such as logging, agribusiness or mining projects in indigenous territories. There were already several examples of the successful use of the ILO Convention in Chile, like the case of a Machi woman who brought legal action to protect a plot of land with herbs used for medicinal purposes, which was threatened by the forest industry. Some concerns were however raised at the time over the political framework of the government being brought in line with the convention, and not the other way around.\n\n"}
{"id": "44691226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44691226", "title": "Israel \"Bo\" Curtis", "text": "Israel \"Bo\" Curtis\n\nIsrael Benjamin Curtis, known as Israel \"Bo\" Curtis (September 11, 1932 – February 16, 2012), was an African-American educator and funeral home insurance agent who served from 1992 to 2008 in the Louisiana House of Representatives from District 26 in Alexandria, Louisiana.\n\nCurtis graduated from Peabody High School in Alexandria and Grambling State University in Grambling in Lincoln Parish, from which he gained a Bachelor of Science degree. He obtained a master's degree from Northwestern State University in Natchitoches, Louisiana, and he did further graduate studies at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, the historically black Southern University in Baton Rouge, and Michigan State University in East Lansing, Michigan. After high school, Curtis served in the United States Army during the Korean War and was a long-term member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. For more than two decades after he completed Grambling University, Curtis was a teacher and coach in Rapides Parish. He retired from the classroom to become manager and funeral director of the Winnfield Life Insurance Company of Alexandria. He was a personal bodyguard for Martin Luther King, Jr., when the civil rights activist visited Alexandria.\n\nDixon formerly resided in Dallas and Duncanville, Texas, and Lake Charles, Louisiana, dates not available. With his wife, Barbara Jean Curtis (born 1934), Dixon had two children, Andrea Yvette Curtis (born 1958) and Benjamin Frederick Curtis (born 1963). He was a long-time choir member and deacon of the Nazarene Missionary Baptist Church in Alexandria. He was an active member of the Grambling University Alumni Association.\n\nIn his first election to the Louisiana House in the November 16, 1991 general election Curtis, a Democrat, defeated Republican candidate Robert \"Bob\" Jordan, 6,810 (53.6 percent) to 5,901 (46.4 percent). In his first reelection in 1995, Curtis defeated another Republican, Willard Adrian \"Willie\" Harp (born November 1956), 5,736 (67.5 percent) to 2,001 (23.5 percent). A third candidate held the remaining 9 percent of the ballots cast. Harp had also run for the seat in 1991. In his last election to the legislature on November 15, 2003, Curtis defeated in a runoff contest fellow African-American Alexandria Democrat, Herbert B. Dixon, 5,512 (53 percent) to 4,892 (47 percent).\n\nIn his sixteen years in the state House of Representatives, Curtis focused on constituent service and health care matters. He led the move to build the Rapides Primary Healthcare Center at 1217 Willow Glen River Road in Alexandria.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1992, Dixon was the District D member of the Rapides Parish School Board. His successor on the school board and in the legislature was his former intra-party rival, Herbert Dixon.\n\nCurtis died in 2012 at the age of seventy-nine and is interred at Alexandria Memorial Gardens.\n\nThe Curtis-Coleman Memorial Bridge, still under construction atop the Red River at Alexandria-Pineville, was named in 2014 for Curtis and Lemon \"Billy\" Coleman (1935-2015), the first black to have served on the Pineville City Council. The bridge was previously named for Governor O. K. Allen.\n"}
{"id": "13656523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13656523", "title": "Job-seeking expense tax deductions", "text": "Job-seeking expense tax deductions\n\nGenerally, expenses related to the carrying-on of a business or trade are deductible from a United States taxpayer's adjusted gross income. For many taxpayers, this means that expenses related to seeking new employment, including some relevant expenses incurred for the taxpayer's education, can be deducted, resulting in a tax break, as long as certain criteria are met.\n\nFirst, such costs must qualify as expenses, as contemplated by the U.S. tax code, and not as capital expenditures (generally, a capital expenditure is a cost associated with producing a benefit with a useful life of more than one year, such as a long-term investment). Second, if the cost qualifies as an expense, it may be deductible if it can be characterized as an \"ordinary and necessary expense paid or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on any trade or business...\" For purposes of the average taxpayer looking to deduct expenses related to seeking new employment, the relevant inquiry is whether the new position sought can be deemed to be \"carrying on\" the prior business or trade of that taxpayer, as costs associated with starting up a new business or trade are not immediately deductible and are subject to a special form of amortization.\n\nWhether seeking new employment, and the costs associated therewith, can be deemed as \"carrying on\" a prior business or trade is fact- and context-specific. However, the IRS, with approval of the courts, has insisted on a high degree of sameness between the new position sought and the previous means of employment. This means that if substantial differences exist between the duties, tasks, and activities of the taxpayer's prior job and those of the job he now seeks, then the expenses incurred will be deemed to be start-up costs, and not subject to immediate deduction. Similarly, if the taxpayer has undergone a significant hiatus between the prior position of employment and the one now sought, expenses will not be considered \"carrying on\" the business or trade. Again, whether a hiatus would be considered significant is highly fact- and context-specific. The relevant inquiry here should be whether there is a \"substantial lack of continuity.\" If the taxpayer terminated his previous employment with little indication of seeking a new position in the same profession, it is likely that time spent unemployed or employed in a different field would prevent the taxpayer from claiming that he was \"carrying on\" his prior business or trade. \n\nThe ability to deduct the costs of seeking new employment is a distinct advantage for many taxpayers, but one likely to be overlooked. To recap, a taxpayer may only deduct the costs associated with seeking new employment when that taxpayer is searching for a new employer in substantially the same profession. Further, a significant hiatus between jobs may bar claiming this type of deduction.\n"}
{"id": "1236821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1236821", "title": "John Sparks (Nevada politician)", "text": "John Sparks (Nevada politician)\n\nJohn Sparks (August 30, 1843 – May 22, 1908) was an American politician. He was the tenth Governor of Nevada, and was nicknamed Honest John. Like his predecessor, Reinhold Sadler, Sparks was a cattleman and his rise to political power was evidence of the decline of the mining industry and the rise of the ranching industry in Nevada. He was a member of the Silver – Democratic Party.\n\nSparks was born on August 30, 1843 in Winston County, Mississippi. His family was one of those known as \"new lands families\", who specialized in developing land on the frontier and then selling out and moving on as settlement in the area increased. His family followed the frontier through Arkansas, moving on to Texas in 1857 by which point they were moderately wealthy. In Texas they began ranching cattle, and John became a proficient cowboy.\n\nIn 1861, Sparks joined the Texas Rangers, probably to avoid being drafted into the Confederate Army. His unit was tasked with protecting settlers from the Comanche, and he did not fight in the Civil War. After the war, Sparks drove cattle in the huge Longhorn drives of the era, at first working for John Meyers, and later in partnership with his brothers. In 1872, Sparks married Rachel Knight and they had two daughters, Maude and Rachel.\n\nIn 1873, Sparks bought a large herd of cattle in Texas then drove them to Wyoming and established a ranch in the Chugwater River valley near Cheyenne. He sold that ranch and its 2,100 head of cattle the next year to the Swan Brothers. After that, Sparks established a series of ranches along the North Platte River, each of which he quickly sold and invested the money in the next ranch. Sparks also invested in a bank in Georgetown, Texas (his wife's hometown), where he also built a mansion. In 1879 his wife died, and in 1880 Sparks married her half-sister Nancy Elnora \"Nora\" Knight, they had three sons, Benton, Charles and Leland.\n\nBy that time there was no unclaimed rangeland left east of the Rockies, and Sparks cast his eye further west. Joining with fellow Texan John Tinnin, Sparks bought the H-D Ranch in the Thousand Springs Valley north of Elko, Nevada in 1881. In 1883 Sparks-Tinnin purchased all of Jasper Harrell's ranches for $900,000. At that time, the Harrell ranches consisted of approximately 30,000 head of cattle ranging over a vast area of Nevada and Idaho. Very little of that land was owned outright. Sparks-Tinnin would obtain small portions of land surrounding a water source, and then deny other operations use of that water. This allowed it to control vast areas of public land that it did not own. Sparks-Tinnin would have an employee file for a homestead on the land that it wished to own, and then sell that land back to the company, as an individual could only file for one homestead in a lifetime. At its peak, Sparks-Tinnin was said to control 6% of the land in Nevada.\n\nIn 1885, Sparks moved to his 1,640 acre (6.64 km²) Alamo Ranch, located in the Steamboat Springs area just south of Reno, Nevada. There he built a \"hobby\" herd of pure-blood Hereford cattle. Sparks became famous at western livestock auctions by paying ridiculous sums for pedigreed Hereford cattle. By purchasing stock from other breeders rather than breeding his own, Sparks' herd was soon unbeatable at livestock shows. Sparks' sale of lesser cattle from his herd helped establish the Hereford as the dominant breed in Nevada. Sparks also raised \"exotic\" animals such as bison and deer at the Alamo Ranch.\n\nThe Sparks-Tinnin operation continued to grow throughout the 1880s until it, like all other western cattle operations, suffered a severe setback in the harsh winter of 1889-1890. During that winter the temperature reached −42 degrees Fahrenheit (−41 degrees Celsius) in Elko, and the range was covered in deep snow from January through March. At that time most large cattle operations in Nevada kept their cattle on the open range year round, with no supplemental feed in the winter. Losses of cattle on the range were catastrophic. In the spring of 1890 it was reported that one could walk for a hundred miles along the Humboldt River on cow carcasses, and floating carcasses jammed against bridges in Elko, causing flooding. Sparks later stated that of his herd of about 45,000 head, only 15,000 survived. He also claimed that of the survivors, 90% had the \"white faces characteristic of Herefords\". These were probably the descendents of Longhorn brood cows and Hereford bulls. As range cattle operations of the day typically ran one bull per twenty brood cows it was far cheaper to improve an existing herd by replacing the bulls then by creating a whole new herd. The survival rate of these Hereford/Longhorn crosses was ascribed to the superior qualities of the Hereford, however hybrid vigor may have played a role.\n\nFollowing the winter of 1889-1890, Tinnin could no longer make his mortgage payments to Jasper Harrell, and Harrell took over his shares. Sparks-Tinnin was renamed Sparks-Harrell. Between his expenditures on the Alamo Ranch, and losses in mining speculation, Sparks also ran into financial trouble, and sold his half of Sparks-Harrell back to Jasper Harrell in 1901.\n\nAfter an unsuccessful Senate run, Sparks was elected Governor of Nevada in 1902, and re-elected in 1906. During this administration a state railroad commission was formed; the Nevada State Police was organized; an eight-hour work day bill for miners was passed; and a state engineering office was created. \n\nIn 1904, the town of Harriman, Nevada in Washoe County was renamed Sparks after the governor.\n\nSparks died while still in his second term in office on May 22, 1908. At the time of his death he was reportedly broke, and the Alamo Ranch was immediately sold to settle his debts.\n\nThe Alamo Ranchhouse, a portion of Sparks' Alamo Ranch, survives and is listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nCattle in the Cold Desert by James A. Young and B. Abbott Sparks, University of Nevada Press, 1985, reprinted and expanded 2002\n\n"}
{"id": "4405402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405402", "title": "Labour Inspection (Seafarers) Convention, 1996", "text": "Labour Inspection (Seafarers) Convention, 1996\n\nLabour Inspection (Seafarers) Convention, 1996 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1996, with the preamble stating:\nRecalling the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, on 16 November 1994, and\n\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the revision of the Labour Inspection (Seamen) Recommendation, 1926, ...\n\nAs of 2013, 15 states have ratified the convention. However, eight of ratifying states have subsequently denounced it.\n\n"}
{"id": "4203133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4203133", "title": "Maintenance of Migrants' Pension Rights Convention, 1935 (shelved)", "text": "Maintenance of Migrants' Pension Rights Convention, 1935 (shelved)\n\nMaintenance of Migrants' Pension Rights Convention, 1935 (shelved) is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1935, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the maintenance of rights in course of acquisition and acquired rights under invalidity, old-age and widows' and orphans' insurance on behalf of workers who transfer their residence from one country to another, which is the first item on the agenda of the Session, and having determined that these proposals shall take the form of an international Convention, adopts this twenty-second day of June of the year one thousand nine hundred and thirty-five the following Convention, which may be cited as the Maintenance of Migrants' Pension Rights Convention, 1935:\n\nPrior to it being shelved, the convention was ratified by 12 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "1132177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132177", "title": "Newzbin", "text": "Newzbin\n\nNewzbin was a British Usenet indexing website, intended to facilitate access to content on Usenet. The site caused controversy over its stance on copyrighted material. Access to the Newzbin.com website was blocked by BT and Sky in late 2011, following legal action in the UK by Hollywood film studios.\n\nThe site announced that it had closed down on 28 November 2012.\n\nNewzbin indexed binary files that have been posted on Usenet, and offered the results through a search engine, with categories that included \"Movies\", \"Music\", \"Apps\" and \"Books\". The site created NZB files, which allowed the files to be downloaded with a suitable newsreader. NZB files are similar to torrent files, as they do not contain the file itself, but information about the location of the file to be downloaded. The search results could be browsed free of charge after creating a user account, but access to the NZB files was restricted to premium members who paid a subscription.\n\nIn February and March 2010, Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, Universal City Studios Productions LLLP, Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., Paramount Pictures Corporation, Disney Enterprises, Inc. and Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. took joint legal action against Newzbin in the High Court in London, arguing that the site was encouraging widespread copyright infringement by indexing unofficial copies of films on Usenet.\n\nIn March 2010, Mr. Justice Kitchin ruled that Newzbin was deliberately indexing copyrighted content, observing that Newzbin had a \"sophisticated and substantial infrastructure and in the region of 700,000 members, though not all premium\", and that \"for the year ended 31 December 2009, it had a turnover in excess of £1million, a profit in excess of £360,000 and paid dividends on ordinary shares of £415,000\". Chris Elsworth, the main operator of Newzbin, had said repeatedly during the case that he had no knowledge of infringement occurring on the service, and that Newzbin's categories for \"CAM,\" \"screener,\" \"telesync,\" \"DVD\",\"R5 retail\",\"Blu-ray,\" and \"HD DVD\" did not suggest any evidence of infringement. Kitchin was critical of Elsworth, stating that his evidence disputing the claim that the site's features did not encourage copyright infringement was \"simply not credible\".\n\nOn 18 May 2010, the Newzbin.com site was temporarily shut down, displaying the message \"Regrettably the Newzbin website has to close as a result of the legal action against us.\" \n\nBy 2 June 2010, Newzbin was back online, under the name Newzbin2, but using the same code and database as its predecessor, and hosted in the Seychelles.\n\nIn June 2011, the Motion Picture Association applied for an injunction to force BT, the largest Internet service provider in the United Kingdom, to cut off customers' access to Newzbin. On 28 July 2011, the High Court ruled that BT had to block access to Newzbin, using Cleanfeed. BT announced that it would not appeal against the ruling. The Open Rights Group was critical of the decision, saying that it could set a \"dangerous\" precedent.\n\nIn September 2011, Newzbin released client software which aimed to circumvent the BT blocking.\n\nOn 26 October 2011 at the High Court, Mr. Justice Arnold ordered BT to block its estimated six million customers' access to the website Newzbin2 within fourteen days, the first ruling of its kind under UK copyright law. Attempts to access the site from a BT IP address were met by the message \"Error - site blocked\". Newzbin claimed that the block was ineffective, and that 93.5% of its active UK users had downloaded its workaround software. A study suggested that the workaround involved encryption to hide communication between users and Newzbin2, including the use of the Tor network.\n\nSky blocked access to Newzbin, stating: \"We have received a court order requiring us to block access to this illegal website, which we did on 13th December, 2011.\"\n\nOn 26 January 2012, barrister David Harris, who had represented Newzbin during part of the 2010 High Court case, was disbarred after it emerged that 100% of the site's issued share capital was held in his name. He was also fined £2,500 after tweeting as \"@Geeklawyer\", describing opposing lawyers with the words \"slimebags\" and \"prick\".\n\nIn February 2012, the Newzbin.com domain closed down, and the site moved to Newzbin2.es.\n\nOn 13 August 2012, Virgin Media blocked access to the site.\n\nOn 28 November 2012, Newzbin2.es announced the closure of its indexing service, displaying to visitors the following text on its main page:\n\nOn 20 December 2012 at the High Court in London, Mr Justice Newey ruled that the film studios involved in the legal action against Newzbin did not have a proprietary claim to money derived from infringement of copyright. The studios had taken action against David Harris and Chris Elsworth, two of the former directors of the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "3196487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3196487", "title": "Prostitution in China", "text": "Prostitution in China\n\nShortly after taking power in 1949, the Communist Party of China embarked upon a series of campaigns that purportedly eradicated prostitution from mainland China by the early 1960s. Since the loosening of government controls over society in the early 1980s, prostitution in mainland China not only has become more visible, but can now be found throughout both urban and rural areas. In spite of government efforts, prostitution has now developed to the extent that it comprises an industry, one that involves a great number of people and produces a considerable economic output. Prostitution has also become associated with a number of problems, including organized crime, government corruption and sexually transmitted diseases. For example, a Communist Party official who was a top provincial campaigner against corruption was removed from his post after he was caught in a hotel room with a prostitute.\n\nProstitution-related activities in mainland China are characterised by diverse types, venues and prices. Prostitutes themselves come from a broad range of social backgrounds. They are almost all female, though in recent years male prostitutes have also emerged. Venues typically include hotels, karaoke venues and beauty salons.\n\nOfficially, prostitution is illegal in mainland China. The government of China has vacillated, however, in its legal treatment of prostitutes themselves, treating them sometimes as criminals and sometimes as behaving with misconduct. Since the reemergence of prostitution in the 1980s, government authorities have responded by first using the legal system, that is, the daily operations of institutions like courts and police. Second, they have relied on police-led campaigns, clearly delineated periods of intense public activity, as a form of social discipline. Despite lobbying by international NGOs and overseas commentators, there is not much support for legalisation of the sex sector by the public, social organizations or the government of the PRC.\n\nWhile the sale of sexual intercourse remains illegal throughout mainland China, as of 2013 erotic massage, or more commonly known as massage with \"happy endings\", is legal in the city of Foshan in Guangdong province. In June of that year, the Foshan Court determined that the sale of erotic massage is not the same as prostitution.\n\nFollowing the Communist Party of China's victory in 1949, local government authorities were charged with the task of eliminating prostitution. One month after the Communist takeover of Beijing on 3 February 1949, the new municipal government under Ye Jianying announced a policy to control the city's many brothels. On 21 November, all 224 of Beijing's establishments were shut down; 1286 prostitutes and 434 owners, procurers, and pimps were arrested in the space of 12 hours by an estimated 2400 cadres.\n\nDue to the enormity of social issues that had to be addressed, and the limited budgets and human resources of local governments, most cities adopted the slower approach of first controlling and then prohibiting brothel-prostitution. This method was used in Tianjin, Shanghai and Wuhan. Typically it involved a system of governmental administration which controlled brothel activities and discouraged male patrons. The combined effect of such measures was to gradually reduce the number of brothels in each city until the point where a \"Beijing-style\" closure of the remaining brothels was deemed feasible and reeducation could begin. Reeducation programs were undertaken on the largest scale in Shanghai, where the number of sex workers had grown to 100,000 following the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nBy the early 1960s, such measures had basically wiped out visible forms of prostitution from mainland China. According to the People's Republic of China (PRC) government, venereal diseases were almost completely eliminated from the mainland contemporaneously with the control of prostitution. To mark this victory, all 29 venereal disease research institutes were closed in 1964.\n\nIn accordance with Marxist theory, women who sold sex were viewed as being forced into prostitution in order to survive. The eradication of prostitution was thus vaunted as one of the major accomplishments of the Communist government and evidence of the primacy of Chinese Marxism. Prostitution did not exist as a serious object of concern in China for a period of nearly three decades. Recent studies have demonstrated, however, that the disappearance of prostitution under the Maoist regime was far from complete. Pan Suiming, one of China's leading experts on prostitution, argues that \"invisible\" prostitution — in the form of women providing sexual services to cadres in exchange for certain privileges — became a distinctive feature of Maoist China, particularly towards the end of the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThe resurgence of prostitution in mainland China has coincided with the introduction of Deng Xiaoping's liberalisation of Chinese economic policy in 1978. According to the incomplete statistics composed on the basis of nationwide crackdowns, the rate of prostitution in China has been rising every year since 1982. Between 1989 and 1990, 243,183 people were apprehended for prostitution-related activities. Zhang Ping estimates that such police figures only account for around 25–30 percent of the total number of people who are actually involved. Prostitution is an increasingly large part of the Chinese economy, employing perhaps 10 million people, with an annual level of consumption of possibly 1 trillion RMB. Following a 2000 police campaign, Chinese economist Yang Fan estimated that the Chinese GDP slumped by 1%, as a result of decreased spending by newly unemployed female prostitutes.\n\nThe revival of prostitution was initially associated with China's eastern, coastal cities, but since the early 1990s at least, local media have reported on prostitution scandals in the economic hinterlands, incorporating such remote and underdeveloped regions as Yunnan, Guizhou, and Tibet. In the 1980s, the typical seller of sex was a poorly educated, young female rural migrant from populous, relatively remote provinces such as Sichuan and Hunan. Over the past decade, there has been a recognition that the majority of women who enter prostitution do so of their own accord. The potential benefits of prostitution as an alternative form of employment include greater disposable income, access to upwardly mobile social circles and lifestyle options. The state-controlled media have focused attention on urban residents engaging in prostitution, especially university-educated women. There also seems to be a growing acceptance of prostitution. In a 1997 study, 46.8% of undergraduates in Beijing admitted to having considered receiving prostitution services. On the demand side, prostitution has been associated with the gender imbalances brought about by the one-child policy.\n\nProstitution is often directly linked to low-level government corruption. Many local officials believe that encouraging prostitution in recreational business operations will bring economic benefits by developing the tourism and hospitality industries and generating a significant source of tax revenue. On occasion, police have been implicated in the running of high grade hotels where prostitution activities occur, or accepting bribes and demanding sexual favours to ignore the existence of prostitution activities. Government corruption is also involved in a more indirect form — the widespread abuse of public funds to finance consumption of sex services. Pan Suiming contends that China has a specific type of prostitution that entails a bargain between those who use their power and authority in government to obtain sex and those who use sex to obtain privileges.\n\nApart from incidences of violence directly associated with prostitution, an increasing number of women who sell sex have been physically assaulted, and even murdered, in the course of attempts to steal their money and property. There have also been a growing number of criminal acts, especially incidences of theft and fraud directed at men who buy sex, as well as bribery of public servants. Offenders often capitalise on the unwillingness of participants in the prostitution transaction to report such activities. Organised crime rings are increasingly trafficking women into and out of China for the sex trade, sometimes forcibly and after multiple acts of rape. Mainland China also has a growing number of \"heroin hookers\", whose drug addictions are often connected to international and domestic crime rackets.\n\nSexually transmitted diseases also made a resurgence around the same time as prostitution, and have been directly linked to prostitution. Some regions have introduced a policy of 100% condom use, inspired by a similar measure in Thailand. Other interventions have been introduced recently at some sites, including STI services, peer education and voluntary counselling and testing for HIV.\n\nThe North Korean government system of harsh punishment through forced labor camps or the death penalty can fuel trafficking in neighboring China. Many of the estimated 10,000 North Korean women and girls who have migrated illegally to China to flee abuse and human rights violations are particularly vulnerable to trafficking. According to a source from 2005, \"60 to 70 percent of North Korean defectors in the People's Republic of China are women, 70 to 80 percent of whom are victims of human trafficking.\"\n\nTraffickers reportedly lure, drug, detain, or kidnap some North Korean women upon their arrival. The women are then moved to cities farther away to subjected to forced prostitution in brothels or through internet sex sites, or compelled service as hostesses in nightclubs or karaoke bars. Others offer jobs but subsequently force the women into prostitution.\n\nWhen Chinese authorities arrest these North Korean trafficking victims, they repatriate them. North Korean authorities keep such repatriates in penal labour colonies, execute any Chinese-fathered babies of theirs \"to protect North Korean pure blood\" and force abortions on all pregnant repatriates not executed.\n\nSouth Korean college girls have been sent by brokers to work as prostitutes in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Southeast Asia due to the popularity of the \"Korean wave\".\n\nA massive ring of South Korean prostitutes serving Chinese men was busted in Macau in 2015.\n\nSome Korean women wear kiminos while working as prostitutes in Macau.\n\nIn Macau many Japanese porn actresses work as prostitutes and their clients are rich Chinese men.\n\nMongolian women work as prostitutes in bars in Beijing, such as Maggie's.\n\nDuring the 19th century and in contemporary times, Portuguese prostitutes have operated in Macau. Some Chinese triad members from Macau married Portuguese prostitutes before China took it back from Portugal, providing them with access to Portuguese citizenship. By 1930 there were about 8000 White Russian prostitutes in Shanghai. Today, Eastern Europeans and Russians make up most of the white prostitutes in China. Bars in major Chinese cities offer blonde, blue-eyed Russian \"hostesses\". Many European prostitutes in China market themselves as escorts to attract the attention of visiting businessmen and richer Chinese clients. They may work independently or through an escort agency and advertise their services through the internet. In Shanghai many Russian women work as prostitutes. In Harbin there are Russian prostitutes and African students patronize them.\n\nChina is a recipient of Vietnamese prostitutes.\n\nMany Vietnamese women travel from Lao Cai in Vietnam to Hekou County in China to work in brothels. They provide sex mainly to Chinese men.\n\nVietnamese women working as prostitutes in China have been trafficked from Vietnam through various means at the Guangxi border. Ha Giang province is a conduit for women being trafficked to become prostitutes in China. Chinese police sent 11 Vietnamese prostitutes working in Guangxi back to Vietnam in 2012.\n\nOn the Chinese border with Vietnam, in the Chinese town of Po-chai, a \"Vietnamese girl market\" made out of Vietnamese prostitutes offers sex to Chinese men exclusively and refuses service to Vietnamese men.\n\nUganda's Director of Interpol Asan Kasingye estimates that thousands of women from Kenya, Rwanda or Uganda were trafficked in 2011 to work as prostitutes in China, Indonesia and Malaysia.\n\nHong Kong and Macau are special administrative regions of China and subject to different laws: prostitution in Hong Kong is legal, as is prostitution in Macau. This has led to a higher incidence of prostitution in these regions than in mainland China. Women travel from mainland China to Hong Kong and Macau in order to engage in the trade. There are also allegations of women being trafficked for the purpose. The trafficked women are said to come from mainland China, Mongolia, Southeast Asia, Europe, and South Africa.\n\nElizabeth Wheeler Andrew (1845–1917) and Katharine Caroline Bushnell (5 February 1856 January 26, 1946), who wrote extensively on the position of women in the British Empire, wrote about the Tanka inhabitants of Hong Kong and their position in the prostitution industry, catering towards foreign sailors. The Tanka did not marry with the Chinese, being descendants of the natives, they were restricted to the waterways. They supplied their women as prostitutes to British sailors and assisted the British in their military actions around Hong Kong. The Tanka in Hong Kong were considered \"outcasts\" categorized low class.\n\nOrdinary Chinese prostitutes were afraid of serving Westerners since they looked strange to them, while the Tanka prostitutes freely mingled with western men. The Tanka assisted the Europeans with supplies and providing them with prostitutes. Low class European men in Hong Kong easily formed relations with the Tanka prostitutes. The profession of prostitution among the Tanka women led to them being hated by the Chinese both because they had sex with westerners and them being racially Tanka.\n\nThe Tanka prostitutes were considered to be \"low class\", greedy for money, arrogant, and treating clients with a bad attitude, they were known for punching their clients or mocking them by calling them names. Though the Tanka prostitutes were considered low class, their brothels were still remarkably well kept and tidy. A famous fictional story which was written in the 1800s depicted western items decorating the rooms of Tanka prostitutes.\n\nThe stereotype among most Chinese in Canton that all Tanka women were prostitutes was common, leading the government during the Republican era to accidentally inflate the number of prostitutes when counting, due to all Tanka women being included. The Tanka women were viewed as such that their prostitution activities were considered part of the normal bustle of a commercial trading city. Sometimes the lowly regarded Tanka prostitutes managed to elevate themselves into higher forms of prostitution.\n\nTanka women were ostracized from the Cantonese community, and were nicknamed \"salt water girls \" (ham shui mui in Cantonese) for their services as prostitutes to foreigners in Hong Kong.</ref>\n\nTanka women who worked as prostitutes for foreigners also commonly kept a \"nursery\" Tanka girls specifically for exporting them for prostitution work to overseas Chinese communities such as in Australia or America, or to serve as a Chinese or foreigner's concubine.\n\nA report called \"Correspondence respecting the alleged existence of Chinese slavery in Hong Kong: presented to both Houses of Parliament by Command of Her Majesty\" was presented to the English Parliament in 1882 concerning the existene of slavery in Hong Kong, of which many were Tanka girls serving as prostitutes or mistresses to westerners.\n\nThe Manchu traveller Qi-yi-shi reported the presence of prostitution among Torghut and Khoshut women in the Karasahr area of Xinjiang in 1777. He also wrote of the prevalence of prostitution in Kashgar and reported that some Manchu soldiers and officials in Xinjiang had long-term relationships with Turkistani prostitutes. The presence of local Turki (Uyghur) prostitutes at a party held by Russian officials in Kashgar in 1900 led to anti-Russian street demonstrations.\n\nIn late-19th- and early-20th-century Turpan, Islamic modesty meant that Muslim prostitutes would not bare their bodies to clients in the way that Chinese prostitutes did. The only women in Xinjiang at that time not to wear headscarfs were prostitutes from the poorest social classes. In the early 20th century the Scottish missionary George W. Hunter noted that the poverty of the Turki Muslims (Uyghurs) resulted in them selling their daughters, and that the practice led to Xinjiang containing significant numbers of Turki prostitutes. In contrast, he observed very little prostitution among the Tungan Muslims (Hui people). During the same period the Finnish military officer Carl Mannerheim reported that several streets in Hotan were occupied by Uyghur prostitutes who specialised in selling their services to travelling merchants. Records from Turpan indicate that the customers of Turki prostitutes in Xinjiang included merchants from China proper.\n\nTemporary marriage, in the form of the Sunni Muslim misyar marriage (\"traveller's marriage\") contract, is a practice that has sometimes been used as a cover for a form of prostitution. It was widespread in Xinjiang under Chinese rule prior to the Dungan Revolt of 1862–77, and some westerners considered its use there to be a form of licensed prostitution. It allowed a man to marry a woman for a week or even a couple of days, with \"the mulla who performs the ceremony arranging for the divorce at the same time\". In some cases a temporary marriage was undertaken without the traditional marriage contract and could be easily terminated by the man involved. Such a marriage was forbidden by the Koran, and the Turki (Uyghur) Muslims in Xinjiang called it a \"marriage of convenience\".\n\nAfter the restoration of Chinese rule in the late 19th century it was common for Chinese soldiers and civilians in the Yarkand area of Xinjiang, including high officials, to take temporary wives, often without a marriage ceremony. Most of the wives came from Khotan. When the Chinese returned to China proper, their wives were abandoned or sold to friends. The Russian exile Paul Nazaroff reported the existence of a temporary marriage bazaar in Yangi Hissar in the 1920s.\n\nThe frequent marriages of Chinese men to Muslim Turki women in Xinjiang from 1880-1949 occurred despite the fact that Islamic law forbids Muslim women from marrying non-Muslims, and that the Turki community considered such women to be prostitutes. Some foreign commentators suggested that the women involved were motivated by poverty, as such marriages prevented the women from being subject to the tax on prostitution.\n\nChinese police categorise prostitution practices according to a descending hierarchy of seven tiers, though this typology does not exhaust the forms of practices that exist. These tiers highlight the heterogeneous nature of prostitution and prostitutes. While they are all classified as prostitutes, the services they offer can be very different. Within some tiers, for example, there is still some revulsion to the acts of anal sex and oral sex. In parallel with the wide range of backgrounds for prostitutes, male buyers of sex also come from a wide range of occupational backgrounds. According to the local police, in China there are seven categories of prostitutes:\n\n\n\nThe first and second tiers have become the focus of heated public debate because they are explicitly linked to government corruption. Many domestic commentators contend that these practices constitute a concrete expression of \"bourgeois rights\". The All-China Women's Federation, as one of the major vehicles of feminism in the PRC, as well as women's groups in Hong Kong and Taiwan, have been actively involved in efforts to eradicate this form of \"concubinage\" as practices that violate the emotional and economic surety of the marriage contract.\n\n\nWomen who perform sexual acts with men in karaoke/dance venues, bars, restaurants, teahouses and other venues and who receive financial recompense in the form of tips from the individual men they accompany, as well as from a share of the profits generated by informal service charges on the use of facilities and the consumption of food and beverages. A common euphemism for such hostesses is \"sanpei xiaojie\" (三陪小姐: \"ladies of the three accompaniments\"). In theory, the \"three accompaniments\" are chatting, drinking and dancing with their clients. In practice, the \"three accompaniments\" more often refers to dancing with, drinking with, and being publicly groped by their clients. These women often begin by allowing their clients to fondle or intimately caress their bodies, then if the client is eager, will engage in sexual intercourse.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe lowest two tiers are characterised by a more straightforward exchange of sex for financial or material recompense. They are neither explicitly linked to government corruption, nor directly mediated through China's new commercial recreational business sector. Women who sell sex in the lowest two tiers usually do so in return for small sums of money, food and shelter.\n\nThe PRC rejects the argument that prostitution is an unremarkable transaction between consenting individuals and that prohibition laws constitute a violation of civil liberties. Overall, the PRC's legal response to prostitution is to penalise third party organisers of prostitution. Participants in the prostitution transaction are still usually penalised according to the Chinese system of administrative sanctions, rather than through the criminal code.\n\nUntil the 1980s, the subject of prostitution was not viewed as a major concern for the National People's Congress. The PRC's first criminal code, the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Law of 1979 made no explicit reference to the activities of prostitutes and prostitute clients. Legal control of prostitution was effected on the basis of provincial rulings and localised policing initiatives until the introduction of the \"Security administration punishment regulations\" in 1987. The Regulations makes it an offence to \"sell sex\" (卖淫) and to \"have illicit relations with a prostitute\" (嫖宿暗娼).\n\nProstitution only became a distinct object of statutory classification in the early 1990s. Responding to requests from the Ministry of Public Security and the All-China Women's Federation, the National People's Congress passed legislation that significantly expanded the range and scope of prostitution controls: the 1991 Decision on Strictly Forbidding the Selling and Buying of Sex and the 1991 Decision on the Severe Punishment of Criminals Who Abduct and Traffic in or Kidnap Women and Children. Adding symbolic weight to these enhanced law enforcement controls was the 1992 Law on Protecting the Rights and Interests of Women, which defines prostitution as a social practice that abrogates the inherent rights of women to personhood.\n\nThe PRC's revised Criminal Law of 1997 retains its abolitionist focus in that it is primarily concerned with criminalising third-party involvement in prostitution. For the first time the death penalty may be used, but only in exceptional cases of organising prostitution activities, involving additional circumstances such as repeated offences, rape, causing serious bodily injury, etc. The activities of first-party participants continue to be regulated in practice according to administrative law, with the exceptions of anyone who sells or buys prostitutional sex in the full knowledge that they are infected with an STD; and anyone who has prostitutional sex with a child under 14 years of age. Since 2003, male homosexual prostitution has also been prosecuted under the law.\n\nThe 1997 criminal code codified provisions in the 1991 Decision, establishing a system of controls over social place, specifically places of leisure and entertainment. The ultimate goal is to stop managers and workers within the predominantly male-run and male-patronised hospitality and service industry from profiting from and/or encouraging the prostitution of others. Government intervention in commercial recreation has found concrete expression in the form of the 1999 \"Regulations concerning the management of public places of entertainment\". The provisions proscribe a range of commercial practices that characterise the activities of female \"hostesses\". These laws have been further reinforced via the introduction of localised licensing measures that bear directly on the interior spatial organisation of recreational venues.\n\nAs a result of strong calls to curb official corruption, during the mid to late 1990s, a whole host of regulations were also introduced to ban government employees both from running recreational venues and from protecting illegal business operations. The 1997 Communist Party Discipline Regulations, for example, contain specific provisions to the effect that party members will be stripped of their posts for using their position and/or public funds to keep a \"second wife\", a \"hired wife\", and to buy sexual services. These measures are being policed via the practice established in 1998 of auditing government officials, and thereby combining the forces of the CPC's disciplinary committees with those of the State Auditing Administration. Following the introduction of these measures, the Chinese media has publicised numerous cases of government officials being convicted and disciplined for abusing their positions for prostitution.\n\nDespite the position of the law, prostitutes are often treated as quasi-criminals by the Ministry of Public Security. Chinese police conduct regular patrols of public spaces, often with the support of mass-line organisations, using a strong presence as a deterrence against prostitution. Because lower tier prostitutes work the streets, they are more likely to be apprehended. Arrests are also more likely to be female sellers of sex than male buyers of sex. The overwhelming majority of men and women who are apprehended are released with a caution and fine.\n\nIn response, sellers and buyers of sex have adopted a wide range of tactics designed to avoid apprehension. The spatial mobility which is afforded by modern communications systems, such as mobile phones and pagers, and by modern forms of transportation, such as taxis and private cars, has severely reduced the ability of police to determine exactly who is engaged in acts of solicitation. Prostitutes have also begun using the internet, in particular instant messaging software such as QQ, to attract customers. In 2004, PlayChina, an online prostitution referral service, was shut down by police.\n\nIn tandem with the long-term task of developing preventative policing, the much more visible form of policing have been periodic police-led campaigns. Anti-prostitution campaigns have been accompanied by nationwide \"media blitzes\" to publicise the PRC's laws and regulations. This is typically followed by the announcement of arrest statistics, and then by sober official statements suggesting that the struggle to eliminate prostitution will be a long one. The use of campaigns has been criticised for their reliance on an outdated \"ideological\" construction and an equally outmoded campaign formula of the 1950s.\n\nThe primary target of the PRC's prostitution controls throughout the 1990s has been China's burgeoning hospitality and entertainment industry. These culminated in the \"strike hard\" campaigns of late 1999 and 2000. Whilst such campaigns may have failed to eradicate prostitution \"in toto\", there is some evidence that regulation of China's recreational venues has helped to create a legitimate female service worker with the right to refuse to engage in practices repugnant to the \"valid labour contract\", as well as the right to be free from sexual harassment in the workplace.\n\nChinese police have, however, proven unable to effectively police higher tier prostitution practices. The nature of concubinage and second wife practices makes it more suited as a target of social action campaigns rather than conventional police action. Because of social changes, for example, Chinese police are now professionally constrained not to intrude on people's personal relationships in an overt or coercive manner. Police forces around China also differ as to how they approach the subject. In some areas, \"massage parlours\" on main streets are known full well to be brothels, but are generally left to function without hindrance, barring occasional raids.\n\nThe illegal activities and problems associated with prostitution had led some to believe that there would be benefits if prostitution was legalized.\n\nA number of international NGOs and human rights organisations have criticised the PRC government for failing to comply with the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, accusing PRC of penalising and abusing lower tier prostitutes, many of whom are victims of human trafficking, while exonerating men who buy sex, and ignoring the ongoing problems of governmental complicity and involvement in the sex trade industry. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women reads: \"Art. 6\": \"States Parties shall take all appropriate measures, including legislation, to suppress all forms of traffic in women and exploitation of prostitution of women\". However, it does not advocate a system of legal and regulated prostitution. There has, though, been some calls for legalization; a minor rally for this caused was held in 2010 organized by sex worker activist Ye Haiyan, who was arrested by police for her role in organizing the protests.\n\nCentral guidelines laid down by the CPC do not permit the public advocacy of the legalisation of prostitution. Arguments concerning legalisation are not absent, however, from mainland China. On the contrary, some commentators contend that legally recognising the sex industry, in conjunction with further economic development, will ultimately reduce the number of women in prostitution. Domestic commentators have also been highly critical of the PRC's prostitution controls, with a consistent Marxist-informed focus of complaint being the gender-biased and discriminatory nature of such controls, as well as human rights abuses. Some commentators in China and overseas contend that the PRC's policy of banning prostitution is problematic because it hinders the task of developing measures to prevent the spread of HIV.\n\nWhile prostitution controls have been relaxed at a local level, there is no impetus for legalisation at the central government level. Importantly, legalisation does not have much public support. Given the underdeveloped nature of the Chinese economy and legal system, there is an argument that legalisation would further complicate the already difficult task of establishing the legal responsibility for third-party involvement in forced prostitution and the traffic in women. Surveys conducted in China suggest that clandestine forms of prostitution will continue to proliferate alongside the establishment of legal prostitution businesses, because of social sanctions against working or patronising a red-light district. Problems associated with female employment also limit the effectiveness of legalisation. These include the lack of independent trade unions, and limited access of individuals to civil redress with regard to occupational health and safety issues.\n\nAccording to UNAIDS, 0.5% of Chinese sex workers are infected with HIV. One study reported that 5% of low-cost sex workers were infected. In one part of Yunnan province, the infection rate is estimated to be as high as 7%. The Chinese government has initiated programs to educate sex workers in HIV/AIDS prevention.\n\nRising HIV/AIDS rates among Chinese's elderly has been partially attributed to the use of sex workers.\n\nThe spread of prostitution practices has introduced a large quantity of slang to the popular vocabulary. Prostitution is a popular subject in the media, especially on the internet. Typically news of police raids, court cases or family tragedies related to prostitution are published in a sensationalised form. A good example is news of an orgy between 400 Japanese clients and 500 Chinese prostitutes in 2003, which partially because of anti-Japanese sentiment, was widely publicised and met with considerable outrage. Another highly publicised case was that of Alex Ho Wai-to, then a Democratic Party candidate for the Legislative Council of Hong Kong, who was given a six-month re-education through labor sentence for hiring a prostitute.\n\nProstitution has emerged as a subject of art in recent years, particularly in Chinese cinema. Li Shaohong's 1995 film \"Blush\" begins in 1949 with the rounding up of prostitutes in Shanghai for \"reeducation\", and proceeds to tell the story of a love triangle between two prostitutes and one of their former clients. One of the prostitutes, Xiaoe, attempts to hang herself in reeducation. When asked to explain the reason, she says she was born in the brothel and enjoyed her lifestyle there - thereby challenging the government-sanctioned perspective of prostitution. The 1998 film \"\" was a dramatic portrayal of \"invisible\" prostitution in the rural China during the Maoist era.\n\nThe 2001 independent film \"Seafood\", by Zhu Wen, was an even more frank depiction of prostitution, this time of the complicated relationship between prostitution and law enforcement. In the film, a Beijing prostitute goes to a seaside resort to commit suicide. Her attempt is intervened by a police officer who tries to redeem her, but also inflicts upon her many instances of sexual assault. Both films, whilst being critically acclaimed abroad, performed poorly in mainland China, only partially due to government restrictions on distribution. The depiction of prostitution in fiction, by comparison, has fared slightly better. The most notable author on the subject is the young writer Jiu Dan, whose portrayal of Chinese prostitutes in Singapore in her novel \"Wuya\", was extremely controversial.\n\nChina is a source, destination, and transit country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Chinese women and girls are subjected to sex trafficking within China. Traffickers typically recruit them from rural areas and take them to urban centers, using a combination of fraudulent job offers and coercion by imposing large travel fees, confiscating passports, confining victims, or physically and financially threatening victims to compel their engagement in commercial sex. Well-organized criminal syndicates and local gangs play key roles in the trafficking of Chinese women and girls in China, recruiting victims with fraudulent employment opportunities and subsequently forcing them into commercial sex. Illicit brokers increasingly facilitate the forced and fraudulent marriage of South Asian, Southeast Asian, and African women and girls to Chinese men for fees of up $30,000. The men—sometimes in partnership with their parents—often incur large debts to cover these fees, which they attempt to recover by subjecting the “brides” to prostitution. Some Chinese men are reportedly circumventing this brokerage system by traveling to Southeast Asian capitals and entering into legal marriages with local women and girls, then returning to China and subjecting them to forced prostitution.\n\nChinese men, women, and children are subjected to forced labor and sex trafficking in at least 57 other countries. Chinese women and girls are subjected to sexual exploitation throughout the world, including in major cities, construction sites, remote mining and logging camps, and areas with high concentrations of Chinese migrant workers.\n\nWomen and children from neighboring Asian countries, Africa, and the Americas are subjected to sex trafficking in China. A large number of North Korean women are subjected to forced prostitution. Women and girls are kidnapped or recruited through marriage brokers and transported to China, where some are subjected to commercial sex.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks China as a 'Tier 3' country.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292883", "title": "Quebec Conference, 1864", "text": "Quebec Conference, 1864\n\nBeginning on 10 October 1864, and lasting over two weeks, the Quebec Conference was held to discuss a proposed Canadian confederation. It was in response to the shift in political ground as Britain and the United States had come very close to engaging in war with each other. Therefore, the overall goal of the conference was to elaborate on policies surrounding federalism, and creating a single state which were discussed previously at the Charlottetown Conference around a month earlier. Canada West leader John A. Macdonald requested Governor-General Charles Monck to invite all representatives from the three Maritime provinces and Newfoundland to meet with the candidates who formed the United Canada to Quebec, in October 1864. Newfoundland sent two observers, but did not participate directly in the proceedings. The Conference was held at the Château Frontenac.\n\nThe Charlottetown Conference of September 1864, laid the foundations for the Quebec Conference and was a significant meeting that would determine what would be discussed in the Quebec Conference. During the Conference, the Canadians found support for the confederation, as discussions pointed towards a unified decision to unite the provinces under the name of Canada. The Canada West member, John A. Macdonald, who would be highly prominent in the Quebec Conference, began to find allies that would enable him to have a more dominant and influential role in the Quebec Conference a month later. One key alliance made in the Charlottetown Conference that would transfer over to the Quebec Conference was made between the Maritime delegates and Macdonald as they saw him as less abrasive than the other Canada West Official, George Brown. Macdonald appealed to the Maritime populace as he seemed a more friendly and diplomatic alliance than George Brown, and in terms of Canada East politician, George-Étienne Cartier, Macdonald was an anglophone, and although Cartier was prominent at the discussions at Charlottetown, the Maritime politicians were yet to get used to the influence and power of the francophone politicians.\n\nOn the fifth and final day of the conference, it was clear that a second part of the confederation deal was on the verge of being consummated, and that the Charlottetown Conference had been making a breakthrough on the policy of Confederacy. The Maritime politicians, however, struggled to agree and accept the details of the Canadians' proposal. On 10 September 1864, in Halifax three days later, they drew up plans to hold another conference in Quebec, in order to finalize the negotiations made during the last few days. They drew up motions for the Quebec Conference after the conclusion of Charlottetown, where they would focus on the confederation of British North America. They also agreed to invite a delegation from Newfoundland, as they were not involved in negotiations at Charlottetown Therefore, the members of Charlottetown wanted to include all provinces of Canada in the negotiations at the Quebec Conference as the Charlottetown Conference had laid the foundations of discussions at the Quebec Conference. During the period between the two sessions, the members of Charlottetown prepared a list of resolutions that would be passed at the Quebec Conference, which proposed the constitution of a new union. These were going to become the \"72 Resolutions.\"\n\nThe conference involved 32 delegates from various regions of Canada. The meeting included members from Canada East- George-Étienne Cartier, Etienne-Paschal Tache as well as Thomas D’Arcy McGee. Those from Canada West included George Brown and John A. Macdonald. Members in New Brunswick who also featured were John Hamilton Gray and Samuel Leonard Tilley. Nova Scotian delegates featured Adams George Archibald and Charles Tupper. Newfoundland sent two delegates whose mere purpose was to observe proceedings and Prince Edward Island sent George Coles and William Henry Pope. The two Newfoundland delegates included F.B.T Carter and Ambrose Shea, who were not government members. Overall Nova Scotia had five members, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island had seven each, and the total made up all the delegates, making up all of the Maritime delegates. There were 32 delegates in total, and were given sets of calling cards, with the names and photo identification so everyone was clear with names and where certain people represented. The Conference lasted 14 days, but to some people, such as Edward Goff Penny, editor of the Montreal Herald, and an eventual senator, complained that this was too little time to conclude proceedings.\n\nThe major source of conflict at the conference was between those who favoured a \"legislative union\", i.e. a unitary state, such as John A. Macdonald, and those who favoured stronger provincial rights. The Conference tied in very closely with the discussions of the aforementioned Charlottetown Conference, as the topics being discussed in Quebec centred around whether the country should have a strong and single central government, or a more encompassing federal system. Representatives from the Maritimes and Canada East (now Quebec) tended to argue for provincial rights, fearing they would lose their cultural identity under a centralized unitary state. John A. Macdonald thought the failure of a weak central power was evident in the American Civil War, which was still being fought in the United States as the delegates met in Charlottetown and Quebec. The delegates eventually compromised, dividing powers between a \"general\" parliament and \"local\" provincial legislatures. They also decided to have an elected lower house, the House of Commons of Canada, and an appointed upper house, the Senate of Canada, although there was considerable debate about how many senators each province would have. The Prince Edward Island delegation called for a scheme similar to the Triple-E Senate proposal of the 1990s. Eventually, a proposed structure for the government was written out in the form of the seventy-two resolutions at the end of the conference.\n\nFollowing on from the topic of the proposed division of the central government into the upper house, that would be based on regional representation and the lower house that would represent the population, this was a key topic in both the Charlottetown Conference and the Quebec Conference. This topic was discussed at length during the conference with one examiner outlining that the meeting on 24 October 1864, that the topic was \"debated all day with considerable warmth and ability but no agreement come to\". He also outlined that \"lower Canada complains that in the number proposed for her, 24, she would be unfairly represented (in the upper house), with it being proposed that upper Canada should have the same number.\" This discussion carried on over into the Quebec Conference in the hope that an agreement could be eventually made considering that it was not concluded at the end of the Charlottetown Conference.\n\nIn terms of what the regions as a whole desired, it was quite overtly clear. Delegates from the Maritimes feared that a legislative union which the aforementioned John A. Macdonald was promoting, as they believed it would result in the loss of their identity as other nations would have an overbearing influence. However, the smaller Maritime colonies saw the Senate as a means of strengthening their regional representation to offset their regional weakness in the so-called lower house. Cartier represented the interests of Quebec at the conference. Similar to the Maritimes, he was more invested in the conference, although he made it abundantly clear that the province needed a strong provincial government that would be able to protect their language, civil customs and local laws. Although he was not wholeheartedly against such political reform, he believed that Quebec should still maintain its identity.\n\nIn terms of priorities at the Conference, there were many differing agendas, especially the Maritime regions that, as mentioned earlier, saw a federalized state as beneficial to their economy and commerce. An example of this was the role of John A. Carter, one of the Newfoundland diplomats invited to the conference, as he outlined the importance of the fisheries to the Newfoundland economy, and that a newly formed federalized state would open up a wide field of enterprise both with internal trade in Canada and within the continent of North America as a whole. However, one concern of the Maritime colonies was due to the fact that they benefited from free trade, and the aforementioned commerce of fishing for their livelihood, Canada was more concerned about industrialization in all the provinces, creating significant improvements to the Canadian economy. Such a concern was raised during the Conference as the Maritime colonies wished to maintain their stable economy. In contrast, some members from Prince Edward Island was highly sceptical of a union as advocated by John A. Macdonald, as they were concerned about the Island's autonomy if there was a confederation.</ref> The concept of particularism, whereby there was paranoia surrounding an overpowering Canada dictating Maritime policy was a salient characteristic of political thinking among numerous people in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. This demonstrated that even within the Maritimes, there were varying degrees of skepticism, with some parts more in favor than others highlighting the complexities of the Maritimes. One key figure, Charles Tupper who was a politician from Nova Scotia who formed close alliances with John A. Macdonald, sympathized with the confederacy and stated that the Maritimes \"could never hope to occupy a position of influence or importance except in connection with their larger sister Canada\". This highlighted the varying degrees in which delegates from the Maritimes viewed the idea of confederacy.\n\nOverall, the result was a compromise, as each province would have its own legislature and the power of government was divided up between the federal and provincial governments. It was decided that the central administrative area was to be placed in Ottawa, where the central government would reside. Delegates consolidated their previous agreement at the Charlottetown Conference, that the central government would have a lower house based on population and an upper house reflective of regional representation. The three separate regions of Ontario, Quebec and the three Maritime provinces would all have 24 seats in the appointment chamber. The actual overall result meant that Canada incorporated portions of both the British Unitary system and the American federal system. The \"72 Resolutions\" were drawn up by the end of the conference, which maintained none of the democratic principles as demonstrated in the United States. The resolutions did not guarantee the protection for the rights of French Canadians, and excluded them extensively in other parts of the legislature.\n\nHowever, the Christian faith was well protected as both Catholics and Protestant minorities were granted Canada’s equality of rights and special privileges in anything involving education. Such resolutions received wide recognition and support from the colonial office. In Lower Canada, Reformers opposed the resolutions but were the only group to do so. In Nova Scotia, pressure was needed to force through legislative approval of the resolutions. Additionally, the federal government was given considerable power over the provinces. This was demonstrated under the power of disallowance, which gave the federal government the ability to reject provincial laws of which they did not approve. Other regions were considered as a result of the conference, including Newfoundland, British Columbia and the “North West Territory”, to eventually enter Canada on equal terms at a later date. Although the Quebec Conference changed the political influence in Canada considerably, the British crown would maintain its position as the head of the government and the protector and head of executive authority.\n\nThe Resolutions were highly comprehensive and within the first few resolutions, it was outlined that the general government would ensure that the intercolonial railway would be completed from Riviere-du-Loup, through New Brunswick and end up at Truro in Nova Scotia. The delegates from Nova Scotia also admitted that the building of this railway with the full financial backing of the central government was key in swaying the Maritimes decision to back a centralized government. The arrangements proposed by Alexander Galt in terms of finance, predominantly focussing on existing debts of various debts owed by certain colonies should be divided and shared. Some of the final resolutions outline that her majesty the Queen possess considerable power over the course of proceedings as Resolution 71 underlined that the Queen was to be solicited to determine the rank and name of the federated provinces. The 60th Resolution outlined that the central government would tackle the debts of all the provinces and aid the payments of all those involved. What was eventually enacted was the policy which resulted in each province being compensated by a federal transfer resulting in 80 cents per head.\n\nThe Quebec resolutions received increasing support from the colonial office, with the only opposing group being the Lower Canadian Reformers who had not been drafted into the coalition. In both Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, considerable pressure was needed to formulate and pass through legislative approval. Prince Edward Island did not join the newly formed unified Canada until around 1873. The 72 Resolutions significantly influenced the \"British North America Act\", as will be discussed in the next section, and little was altered or changed to the resolutions when enacted in London.\n\nThe \"British North America Act\" received royal acceptance on 28 March 1867 by Queen Victoria, and by 22 May, all three provinces- Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Canada. Upper and Lower Canada were to be split into Ontario (Upper Canada) and Quebec (Lower Canada). All of these provinces were to be unified by 1 July 1867, three years after the agreement was made at the Quebec Conference. In the \"Act\", it was clearly stated that 'not being more than six months of passing this act, the provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick shall form and be one dominion under the name of Canada.' It went onto outline that 'Canada shall be divided into four provinces, named Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.' However, although Canada was unified under the \"British North America Act\", the act contained no general declaration or recognition of the fact that Canada was a bilingual and bicultural nation. Therefore, the official language of the newly unified Canada was the language of the Crown, with no recognition of the language of French in the francophone region of Quebec. Overall, the \"British North America Act\" consolidated the 72 Resolutions as passed by the Quebec Conference, but the \"British North American Act\" introduced into the Canadian Government a new factor, the sovereignty of the British Crown.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9648789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9648789", "title": "Real defense", "text": "Real defense\n\nA real defense is a justification for a maker or drawer not to honor a negotiable instrument even if it has been transferred to a holder in due course (or \"HDC\") because it makes the instrument “void” according to Uniform Commercial Code §3-305 comment 1, thus the defense can’t be \"cut off\" by the transfer to an HDC. Contrast this with personal defenses (such as failure of consideration), which cannot protect the maker against the claims by an HDC.\n\n1. Fraud inducing obligor to sign instrument without a reasonable opportunity to learn of its fraudulent character or essential terms (also known as “(fraud in the factum”); this depends upon consideration of “all relevant factors”;\n\n2. forgery of a necessary signature;\n\n3. adjudicated insanity which renders the instrument void;\n\n4. material alteration of the instrument, such as the amount;\n\n5. infancy which renders the instrument voidable or void;\n\n6. illegality which renders the instrument void;\n\n7. duress at the time of making the instrument;\n\n8. discharge of obligor in insolvency proceedings, or any discharge known to the HDC;\n\n9. a suretyship defense, such as the holder knew an indorser was signing as a surety or accommodation party;\n\n10. statute of limitation (generally 3 years after dishonor of a draft or 6 years after demand or other due date on a note).\n"}
{"id": "29967971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29967971", "title": "Reparations (transitional justice)", "text": "Reparations (transitional justice)\n\nReparations are broadly understood as compensation given for an abuse or injury. The colloquial meaning of reparations has changed substantively over the last century. In the early 1900s, reparations were interstate exchanges (see war reparations): punitive mechanisms determined by treaty and paid by the surrendering side of conflict, such as the World War I reparations paid by Germany and its allies. Now, reparations are understood as not just war damages but compensation and other measures provided to victims of severe human rights violations by the parties responsible. The right of the victim of an injury to receive reparations and the duty of the part responsible to provide them has been secured by the United Nations.\n\nIn transitional justice, reparations are measures taken by the state to redress gross and systematic violations of human rights law or humanitarian law through the administration of some form of compensation or restitution to the victims. Of all the mechanisms of transitional justice, reparations are unique because they directly address the situation of the victims. Reparations, if well designed, acknowledge victims' suffering, offer measures of redress, as well as some form of compensation for the violations suffered. Reparations can be symbolic as well as material. They can be in the form of public acknowledgement of or apology for past violations, indicating state and social commitment to respond to former abuses.\n\nProponents of reparations assert that in order to be effective, reparations must be employed alongside other transitional justice measures such as prosecutions, truth-seeking, and institutional reform. Such mechanisms ensure that compensatory measures are not empty promises, temporary stopgap measures, or attempts to buy the silence of victims.\n\nThe legal concept of reparation has two components: the right of the victim of an injury to receive reparation, and the duty of the party responsible for the injury to provide redress. Reparations can be sought by individuals through judicial systems, or they can be policies introduced by the state to address the concerns or needs of a wider populace. While the first strategy is instrumental in creating legal precedent, the second is a more efficient way to recognize the concerns of more people.\n\nThe United Nations Basic Principles and Guidelines on the Rights to a Remedy and Reparation for Gross Violations of International Human Rights Law and Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law describes five formal categories of reparations: restitution, compensation, rehabilitation, satisfaction, and guarantees of non-repetition.\n\n\nVictims of violations of international human rights or humanitarian law have the rights to prompt, sufficient, and effective reparation. Victims can be individuals or a collective group of individuals who suffered similar violations. Such victims, as defined by the UN Basic Principles on the matter, are:\n\n\"Persons who individually or collectively suffered harm, including physical or mental injury, emotional suffering, economic loss, or substantial impairment of their fundamental rights, through acts or omissions that constitute gross violations of international human rights law, or serious violations of international humanitarian law… the immediate family or dependants of the direct victim and persons who have suffered harm in intervening to assist victims in distress or to prevent victimization.\"\n\nThe state, as the authority responsible for ensuring the protection of human rights and the administration of justice within their borders, is correspondingly also responsible for providing redress for abuses and injustices suffered by their citizens. The UN Basic Principles also states that if a person or entity other than the state can be found liable for the violations and abuses endured, such party is responsible for providing reparation either directly to the victim or through compensating the state for reparations rendered.\n\nThe international legal underpinning for the right to effective remedy and duty to provide reparation can be found in multiple human rights and humanitarian treaties and conventions, including:\n\n\nCanada – For more than 100 years, Canada retained a practice of removing indigenous Canadian children from their families and placing them in church-run Indian residential schools (IRS). This process was part of an effort to homogenize Canadian society, and included the prohibition of native language and cultural practices. In 1991, the Canadian government established the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples (RCAP), charged with exploring the relationship between aboriginal peoples, the government, and society.\n\nAs a result of the commission's recommendations, the government symbolically issued an apology in a \"Statement of Reconciliation\", admitting that the schools were designed on racist models of assimilation. Pope Benedict XVI also issued an apology on behalf of church members who were involved in the practice. In addition, the government provided a $350 million fund to help those affected by the schools. In 2006, the federal government signed the Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement, agreeing to provide reparations to the survivors of this program. The Settlement totals approximately $2 billion, and includes financial compensation, a truth commission, and support services.\n\nIn 2017 Prime Minister Justin Trudeau apologized to the LGBTQ2S people of Canada in the House of Commons and announced reparations that would be made to citizens who were injured by specific actions of the State. \n\nChile – In 1990, Chile's newly elected president Patricio Aylwin created the National Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate the human rights abuses of General Augusto Pinochet's 1973-1990 dictatorial regime. The commission investigated disappearances, political executions, and torture, publishing the Rettig Report with its findings in 1991. Afterwards, its work was continued by the National Corporation for Reparations and Reconciliation. These programs recommended reparations for the victims, including: monthly pensions, educational benefits for the children of the disappeared, exemption from military service, and priority access to health services.\n\nHowever, these initiatives have also been criticized on a variety of grounds, such as their refusal to identify the perpetrators of violence and their failure to recognize a comprehensive range of victims to whom reparations are due.\n\nMorocco – In Morocco, the period between the 1960s and 1990s is often referred to as the \"years of lead,\" referring to the massive human rights violations that occurred in the government's campaign of political oppression, including executions, torture, and the annihilation of other civil liberties. Shortly after he ascended the throne in 1999, King Mohammed VI created the Independent Arbitration Commission (IAC) to compensate the victims of forced disappearances and arbitrary detention. The IAC decided more than 5,000 cases and awarded a total of US$100 million, but victims and their families complained of lack of transparency in the tribunal's procedures and demanded truth seeking measures in addition to financial compensation.\n\nThese pressures were instrumental in leading to the 2004 creation of the Arab world's first official truth-seeking initiative, the Equity and Reconciliation Commission. The IER issued a ground-breaking reparations policy that upheld notions of gender equity\nand resulted in roughly $85 million USD in financial compensation paid to almost 10,000 individuals, as well as recommendations on other measures such as the provision of health care and restoration of civil rights. The IER's recommendations also led to\na groundbreaking collective reparations program that combined symbolic recognition of human rights violations with a development component in eleven regions that had suffered from collective punishment. As of May 2010, implementation of the collective reparations program was ongoing.\n\nOther reparations programs have been proposed and/or implemented in: Argentina, Brazil, Cambodia, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, East Timor, El Salvador, Germany, Ghana, Guatemala, Haiti, Iraq, Malawi, Liberia, South Africa, Kenya, the\nUnited States, and others.\n\nThere are some logistical problems inherent in reparations, such as clearly defining the objectives, goals, and processes by which reparations will be distributed, determining how to address a range of atrocities with streamlined programs, or balancing economic development with financing reparation efforts. But some experts suggest that the problems lie in the very definition of reparations themselves.\n\nThe UN's guidelines on reparations could be contested on the fact that they equate human rights violations with violations of civil and political rights, ignoring abuses of economic, social, and cultural rights. The guidelines explicitly state that their intent is to restore victims to their status in a time of peace, but the distribution of rights and resources often wasn't equal in peacetime. Thus reparations, if their intent is to return a society to its status quo, run the risk of ignoring systemic oppression and reproducing social hierarchies.\n\nFor instance, reparations programs have been critiqued for ignoring the needs of women in transitional justice processes. In 2007, women's groups mobilized to examine how reparations policies could be more responsive to victims of gender-based violence. Their efforts led to the \"Nairobi Declaration on Women's and Girl's Right to a Remedy and Reparation,\" which states that \"reparations must go above and beyond the immediate reasons and consequences of the crimes and violations; they must aim to address the political and structural inequalities that negatively shape women's and girl's lives.\" \n\nSome of these concerns can be addressed by empowering women to have a voice in the reparations process, challenging discriminatory practices, and educating communities about sexual violence.\n\nIn addition to gender-based discrimination, children are often excluded from reparations procedures. The reasons of this are varied; reparations often fall in the hands of parents and are only indirectly given to children, and reparations programs often do not take into account the fact that children and adults are affected differently by violence. Thus reparations should also have a child-specific component to target abuses that are specifically suffered by children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28284656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28284656", "title": "Rhode Island v. Massachusetts", "text": "Rhode Island v. Massachusetts\n\nRhode Island v. Massachusetts, 37 U.S. (12 Pet.) 657 (1838), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court asserted its original jurisdiction over a suit in equity by one state against another over their shared border. The case involved a boundary dispute between Massachusetts and Rhode Island dating back to colonial times. Daniel Webster was involved in the case representing Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "4211158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4211158", "title": "Shipowners' Liability (Sick and Injured Seamen) Convention, 1936", "text": "Shipowners' Liability (Sick and Injured Seamen) Convention, 1936\n\nShipowners' Liability (Sick and Injured Seamen) Convention, 1936 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1936, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the liability of the shipowner in case of sickness, injury or death of seamen...\n\nThe Convention was ratified by the United States Senate and made effective by proclamation of the President on 29 October 1939, 54 Stat. 1963, 1704. In Warren v. United States, 340 U.S. 523 (1951), the Supreme Court considered the application and interpretation of Article 2 of the Convention in a seaman's case against his employer, the United States, in its capacity as owner of the merchant ship S. S. Anna Howard Shaw.\n\nWhile on shore leave, the seaman visited a dance hall. An adjoining room overlooking the ocean had French doors that opened to an unprotected ledge. The seaman stepped out onto the ledge, lost his balance, and fell. He sued to recover maintenance and cure.\n\nThe district court awarded maintenance and cure and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals disallowed it. Reversing, the Supreme Court noted:\n\n\"The Convention was a product of the International Labor Organization. Its purpose was to provide an international system of regulation of the shipowner's liability. That international system was aimed at providing a reasonable average which could be applied in any country. . . . The aim indeed was not to change materially American standards but to equalize operating costs by raising the standards of member nations to the American level.\"\n\nAs of 2013, 18 states have ratified the convention. It has subsequently been denounced by seven of those ratifying states.\n\n"}
{"id": "1947778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1947778", "title": "Statutory interpretation", "text": "Statutory interpretation\n\nStatutory interpretation is the process by which courts interpret and apply legislation. Some amount of interpretation is often necessary when a case involves a statute. Sometimes the words of a statute have a plain and straightforward meaning. But in many cases, there is some ambiguity or vagueness in the words of the statute that must be resolved by the judge. To find the meanings of statutes, judges use various tools and methods of statutory interpretation, including traditional canons of statutory interpretation, legislative history, and purpose.\nIn common law jurisdictions, the judiciary may apply rules of statutory interpretation both to legislation enacted by the legislature and to delegated legislation such as administrative agency regulations.\n\nStatutory interpretation first became significant in common law systems, of which England is the exemplar. In Roman and Civil law, a statute (or code) guides the magistrate, but there is no judicial precedent. In England, Parliament historically failed to enact a comprehensive code of legislation, which is why it was left to the courts to develop the common law; and having decided a case and given reasons for the decision, the decision would become binding on later courts.\n\nAccordingly, a particular interpretation of a statute would also become binding, and it became necessary to introduce a consistent framework for statutory interpretation. In the construction (interpretation) of statutes, the principle aim of the court must be to carry out the \"Intention of Parliament\", and the English courts developed three main rules (plus some minor ones) to assist them in the task. These were: the mischief rule, the literal rule, and the golden rule.\n\nStatutes may be presumed to incorporate certain components, as Parliament is \"presumed\" to have intended their inclusion. For example:\n\n\nWhere legislation and case law are in conflict, there is a presumption that legislation takes precedence insofar as there is any inconsistency. In the United Kingdom this principle is known as parliamentary sovereignty; but while Parliament has exclusive jurisdiction to legislate, the courts (mindful of their historic role of having developed the entire system of common law) retain sole jurisdiction to \"interpret\" statutes.\n\nThe age old process of application of the enacted law has led to formulation of certain rules of interpretation. According to CROSS, \"Interpretation is the process by which the courts determine the meaning of a statutory provision for the purpose of applying it to the situation before them.\" While SALMOND says that, \"the process by which the courts seek to ascertain the meaning of the legislature through the medium of authoritative forms in which it is expressed\". Interpretation of a particular statute depends upon the degree of creativity applied by the judges or the court in the reading of it, employed to achieve some stated end. A statute can be interpreted by using the Golden Rule, the Mischief Rule or the Literal Rule.\n\nA statute is an edict of the legislature and the conventional way of interpreting a statute is to seek the 'intention' of its maker. It is the judicature's duty to act upon the true intention of the legislature or the mens or sentential legis. The courts have to objectively determine the interpretation with guidance furnished by the accepted principles. If a statutory provision is open to more than one interpretation the court has to choose that interpretation which represents the true intention of the legislature. the function of the courts is only to expound and not to legislate.\n\nThe judiciary interprets how legislation should apply in a particular case as no legislation unambiguously and specifically addresses all matters. Legislation may contain uncertainties for a variety of reasons:\n\nTherefore, the court must try to determine how a statute should be enforced. This requires statutory construction. It is a tenet of statutory construction that the legislature is supreme (assuming constitutionality) when creating law and that the court is merely an interpreter of the law. Nevertheless, in practice, by performing the construction the court can make sweeping changes in the operation of the law.\n\nStatutory interpretation refers to the process by which a court looks at a statute and determines what it means. A statute, which is a bill or law passed by the legislature, imposes obligations and rules on the people. Statutes, however, although they make the law, may be open to interpretation and have ambiguities. Statutory interpretation is the process of resolving those ambiguities and deciding how a particular bill or law will apply in a particular case.\n\nAssume, for example, that a statute mandates that all motor vehicles travelling on a public roadway must be registered with the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). If the statute does not define the term \"motor vehicles\", then that term will have to be interpreted if questions arise in a court of law. A person driving a motorcycle might be pulled over and the police may try to fine him if his motorcycle is not registered with the DMV. If that individual argued to the court that a motorcycle is not a \"motor vehicle,\" then the court would have to interpret the statute to determine what the legislature meant by \"motor vehicle\" and whether or not the motorcycle fell within that definition and was covered by the statute.\n\nThere are numerous rules of statutory interpretation. The first and most important rule is the rule dealing with the statute's plain language. This rule essentially states that the statute means what it says. If, for example, the statute says \"motor vehicles\", then the court is most likely to construe that the legislation is referring to the broad range of motorised vehicles normally required to travel along roadways and not \"aeroplanes\" or \"bicycles\" even though aeroplanes are vehicles propelled by a motor and bicycles may be used on a roadway.\n\nIn Australia and in the United States, the courts have consistently stated that the text of the statute is used first, and it is read as it is written, using the ordinary meaning of the words of the statute.\n\nBelow are various quotes on this topic from US courts:\n\nFederal jurisdictions may presume that either federal or local government authority prevails in the absence of a defined rule. In Canada, there are areas of law where provincial governments and the federal government have concurrent jurisdiction. In these cases the federal law is held to be paramount. However, in areas where the Canadian constitution is silent, the federal government does not necessarily have superior jurisdiction. Rather, an area of law that is not expressly mentioned in Canada's Constitution will have to be interpreted to fall under either the federal residual jurisdiction found in the preamble of s. 91—known as the Peace, Order and Good Government clause—or the provinces residual jurisdiction of \"Property and Civil Rights\" under s. 92(13) of the 1867 Constitution Act. This contrasts with other federal jurisdictions, notably the United States and Australia, where it is presumed that if legislation is not enacted pursuant to a specific provision of the federal Constitution, the states will have authority over the relevant matter in their respective jurisdictions, unless the state's definitions of their statutes conflicts with federally established or recognized rights.\n\nIt is presumed that a statute will be interpreted so as to be internally consistent. A particular section of the statute shall not be divorced from the rest of the act. The ejusdem generis (or \"eiusdem generis\", Latin for \"of the same kind\") rule applies to resolve the problem of giving meaning to groups of words where one of the words is ambiguous or inherently unclear. The rule results that where \"general words follow enumerations of particular classes or persons or things, the general words shall be construed as applicable only to persons or things of the same general nature or kind as those enumerated.\" What is of the same generic nature is particularly decided upon analogy between the entities which are specific and the indeterminate one. Thus, in a statute forbidding the concealment on one's \"pistols, revolvers, derringers, or other dangerous weapons,\" the term \"other dangerous weapons\" may be construed to comprehend only dangerous weapons that are of the same kind (ara analogues) to those enumerated; i.e., firearms, or perhaps more narrowly still, handguns. A hypothetical court may have to determine whether a sword, a taser, or a Japanese throwing star would be properly included in the \"other\" category of the statute. Here, the term \"other dangerous weapons\" must be given a meaning of the \"same kind (genus)\" as the words of established meaning.\n\nA statute shall not be interpreted so as to be inconsistent with other statutes. Where there is an inconsistency, the judiciary will attempt to provide a harmonious interpretation.\n\nLegislative bodies themselves may try to influence or assist the courts in interpreting their laws by placing into the legislation itself statements to that effect. These provisions have many different names, but are typically noted as:\nThese provisions of the bill simply give the legislature's goals and desired effects of the law, and are considered nonsubstantive and non-enforcable in and of themselves.\n\nAlso known as canons of construction, canons give common sense guidance to courts in interpreting the meaning of statutes. Most canons emerge from the common law process through the choices of judges. Proponents of the use of canons argue that the canons constrain judges and limit the ability of the courts to legislate from the bench. Critics argue that a judge always has a choice between competing canons that lead to different results, so judicial discretion is only hidden through the use of canons, not reduced.\n\nTextual canons are rules of thumb for understanding the words of the text. Some of the canons are still known by their traditional Latin names.\n\n\n\n\n\"Ejusdem generis\" in a composition of a statute assumes especially the form of:\n\n\nThe terms: x, y and z are precise here, while the word “other” or that which precedes them is by definition indeterminate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSubstantive canons instruct the court to favor interpretations that promote certain values or policy results.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeference canons instruct the court to defer to the interpretation of another institution, such as an administrative agency or Congress. These canons reflect an understanding that the judiciary is not the only branch of government entrusted with constitutional responsibility.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCritics of the use of canons argue that canons impute some sort of \"omniscience\" to the legislature, suggesting that it is aware of the canons when constructing the laws. In addition, it is argued that the canons give a credence to judges who want to construct the law a certain way, imparting a false sense of justification to their otherwise arbitrary process. In a classic article, Karl Llewellyn argued that every canon had a \"counter-canon\" that would lead to the opposite interpretation of the statute.\n\nThe common textual canons of statutory construction employed in American jurisprudence are: (1) Ejusdem generis -\" \"of the same kinds, class, or nature,\" \" (2) Expressio unius est exclusio alterius - \"the express mention of one thing excludes all others,\" (3) Noscitur a sociis -\" \"a word is known by the company it keeps,\"(4) \"In pari materia - \"upon the same matter or subject,\" and (5) Common, technical, legal, or trade definition.\n\nThe French philosopher Montesquieu (1689-1755) believed that courts should act as \"the mouth of the law\", but soon it was found that some interpretation is inevitable. \nFollowing the German scholar Friedrich Carl von Savigny (1779-1861) the four main interpretation methods are:\nIt is controversial whether there is a hierarchy between interpretation methods. Germans prefer a \"grammatical\" (literal) interpretation, because the statutory text has a democratic legitimation, and \"sensible\" interpretations are risky, in particular in view of German history. \"Sensible\" means different things to different people. The modern common law perception that courts actually \"make\" law is very different. In a German perception, courts can only \"further\" develop law (\"Rechtsfortbildung\").\nAll of the above methods may seem reasonable: \nThe freedom of interpretation varies by area of law. Criminal law and tax law must be interpreted very strictly, and never to the disadvantage of citizens, but liability law requires more elaborate interpretation, because here (usually) both parties are citizens. Here the statute may even be interpreted \"contra legem\" in exceptional cases, if otherwise a patently unreasonable result would follow.\n\nThe interpretation of international treaties is governed by another treaty, the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, notably Articles 31-33. The United States is not a party to the treaty, but the Vienna Convention is assumed to be a codification of obvious rules so the Convention is likely to be applied by the United States as well.\n\nThe rule is basically that the text of the treaty is decisive unless it either leaves the meaning ambiguous or obscure or leads to a result that is manifestly absurd or unreasonable. Recourse to \"supplementary means of interpretation\" is allowed only in that case, like the preparatory works, also known by the French designation of \"travaux préparatoires\".\n\nOver time, various methods of statutory construction have fallen in and out of favor. Some of the better-known rules of construction methods are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30876528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876528", "title": "Surface bargaining", "text": "Surface bargaining\n\nIn collective bargaining, surface bargaining is a strategy in which one of the parties \"merely goes through the motions,\" with no intention of reaching an agreement. In this regard, it is a form of bad faith bargaining.\n\nDistinguishing surface bargaining from good faith bargaining is extremely difficult. The entire history of the negotiations must be assessed, including the party's intent, efforts made toward reaching an agreement, and any behavior which may be seen as inhibiting the bargaining process. Surface bargaining tactics may include making proposals the other party could never accept, taking inflexible or unreasonable stands on issues, and/or refusing to offer alternatives to proposals. Reneging on agreements already reached during the collective bargaining process, raising new issues late in the negotiations, or failing to follow generally accepted procedures for collective bargaining may also be seen as signs of surface bargaining.\n\nBased upon the \"totality\" of a party's actions during collective bargaining, surface bargaining may be found if there was a purposeful effort to avoid or frustrate mutual agreement. Under U.S. law, it is an Unfair labor practice and a breach of the duty to bargain in good faith.\nSurface bargaining is barred under the labor law of many countries. Federal and provincial Canadian labor law bars surface bargaining, and Canadian courts have held that the test for determining surface bargaining is to look at the totality of the negotiations. In New Zealand, surface bargaining is a violation of the Employment Relations Act 2000 (as amended). A \"Code of Good Faith\" promulgated by the Employment Relations Authority supplements the legal statute, however, and lays out a number of rules for good faith bargaining. In the United States, surface bargaining constitutes an unfair labor practice under the National Labor Relations Act. American courts have held that \"hard bargaining\" (taking a firmly held and well-explained position), failing to make a concession, and/or failing to reach an agreement do not constitute surface bargaining under federal labor law. Additional evidence, such as away-from-the-table statements or behavior, is needed to prove surface bargaining in the U.S.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30547604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30547604", "title": "Tax expenditure", "text": "Tax expenditure\n\nA tax expenditure program is government spending through the tax code. Tax expenditures alter the horizontal and vertical equity of the basic tax system by allowing exemptions, deductions, or credits to select groups or specific activities. For example, two people who earn exactly the same income can have different effective tax rates if one of the tax payers qualifies for certain tax expenditure programs by owning a home, having children, and receiving employer health care and pension insurance.\n\nIn 1967, the tax expenditure concept was created by Stanley S. Surrey, former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, as a way to represent the political use of tax breaks for means that were usually accomplished through budget spending. Secretary Surrey argued that members of Congress were using tax policy as a ``vast subsidy apparatus to reward favored constituencies or subsidize narrow policy areas. The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Act of 1974 (CBA) defines tax expenditures as \"those revenue losses attributable to provisions of the Federal tax laws which allow a special credit, a preferential rate of tax, or a deferral of tax liability\" (Surrey 1985). They are equally common in other countries.\n\nThe Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation (hereafter JCT) annually estimates tax expenditures in terms of revenues lost to the U.S. Treasury for each special tax provision included in the U.S. tax code. In 2009, the JCT listed over 180 tax expenditure programs that cost the U.S. government over $1 trillion in revenues. Their cost varies with the level of economic activity. A major tax expenditure is enjoyed by tax payers who own their own home and can deduct the interest on their mortgage payments. Since tax expenditures are claimed against a progressive tax code, individual tax expenditure programs are worth more to wealthier taxpayers. The majority of tax expenditure programs are targeted for private social benefits and services.\nThe administration of tax expenditures falls on the IRS, and is not accounted for.\n\nTax expenditures are considered \"off-budget\" spending by most economists and budget experts. Tax expenditures are easier to pass through Congress than increases in appropriations spending. They are easily seen as free benefits, when government grants are viewed as giveaways. Unlike direct spending, tax spending must only pass through two committees, the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance. Tax expenditure programs, once in the tax code, do not come up for annual review and can only be removed through tax legislation. Tax expenditure programs are a form of entitlement spending in that every tax payer that qualifies can claim government money. Faricy (2011) demonstrated that when tax expenditures are counted as a type of government spending, Democratic and Republican parties are indistinguishable in annual changes to federal government spending. This study also finds that Republicans are more likely to increase tax expenditures when in control of government thereby subsidizing the activities of businesses and the wealthy. Jacob Hacker (2002) shows that the federal subsidization of private health insurance has grown over the years and has made efforts for nationalized health care more difficult. Ellis and Faricy (2011) find that when tax expenditures rise, public opinion adjusts and becomes more liberal to counteract the conservative policies.\n\nPartial exemption of the poor from taxation through reliance on progressive income taxes rather than sales taxes for revenue or tax rebates such as the earned income tax credit loosely correlate with socio-economic mobility in the United States with areas which tax the poor heavily such as the Deep South showing lower mobility than those with generous tax expenditures for the benefit of low income families with children.\n\nA 2016 Congressional Budget Office report estimated that U.S. tax expenditures were expected to total $1.5 trillion in 2016; for scale, U.S. federal tax receipts were expected to be $3.3 trillion that year. CBO also estimated the size of major tax expenditures on federal receipts as an annual average percent of GDP, for the 2016 to 2026 periods. These included, among others:\nCBO projected that the top 10 largest tax expenditures would average 6.2% GDP each year on average over the 2016-2026 period. For scale, federal tax receipts averaged around 18% GDP from 1970 to 2016. The CBO analysis does not account for behavioral changes that might occur if the tax policies were changed, so the actual revenue impact would differ from the amounts indicated.\n\nAccording to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP), tax expenditures dis-proportionally benefit those with high incomes. CBPP estimated that the top 1% of U.S. households by income received approximately 17% of the tax expenditure benefits in 2013, while the top 20% received 51%. The top 20% pay 84% of the federal income taxes; this figure does not include payroll taxes. For scale, 50% of the $1.5 trillion in tax expenditures in 2016 is $750 billion, while the U.S. budget deficit was approximately $600 billion. In other words, eliminating the tax expenditures for just the top 20% could theoretically balance the budget in the short-run, although economic effects from changing the incentives may reduce the impact on the deficit.\n\nCBO reported in January 2016 that: \"Tax expenditures are distributed unevenly across the income scale. When measured in dollars, much more of the tax expenditures go to higher-income households than to lower-income households. As a percentage of people’s income, tax expenditures are greater for the highest-income and lowest-income households than for\nhouseholds in the middle of the income distribution.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37123", "title": "Theories of political behavior", "text": "Theories of political behavior\n\nTheories of political behavior, as an aspect of political science, attempt to quantify and explain the influences that define a person's political views, ideology, and levels of political participation. Broadly speaking, behavior is political whenever individuals or groups try to influence or escape the influence of others. Political behavior is the subset of human behavior that involves politics and powers. Theorists who have had an influence on this field include Karl Deutsch and Theodor Adorno.\n\nInteraction with the political views of parental figures is often thought of as the primary long-term influence on political orientation and willingness to take part in the political system.\n\nTeachers and other educational authority figures are also often thought to have a significant impact on political orientation. During the 2003-2004 school year, In the United States, students spent an average of 180.4 days in primary and secondary education each year, with a school day being defined as approximately 6.7 class hours. This means that on average a student will spend around 1,208.68 hours in class each year. Post-secondary education appears to have an impact on both voting rates and political identification; as a study of 9,784,931 college students found that they voted at a rate of 68.5% in the 2016 Presidential Election compared to the average of 46.1% for citizens aged 18-29 who voted. \n\nPeers also affect political orientation. Friends often, but not necessarily, have the advantage of being part of the same generation, which collectively develops a unique set of societal issues; Eric L. Dey has argued that \"socialisation is the process through which individuals acquire knowledge, habits, and value orientations that will be useful in the future.\" The ability to relate on this common level is what fuels and enables future ideological growth.\n\nSociologists and political scientists debate the relationship between age and the formation of political attitudes. The impressionable years hypothesis postulates that political orientation is solidified during early adulthood. By contrast, the \"increasing persistence hypothesis\" posits that attitudes become less likely to change as individuals become older, while the \"life-long openness hypothesis\" proposes that the attitudes of individuals remain flexible regardless of age.\n\nShort-term factors also affect voting behavior; the media and the impact of individual election issues are among these factors. These factors differ from the long-term factors as they are often short-lived. However, they can be just as crucial in modifying political orientation. The ways in which these two sources are interpreted often relies on the individuals specific political ideology formed by the long-term factors.\n\nMost political scientists agree that the mass media have a profound impact on voting behavior. One author asserts that \"few would argue with the notion that the institutions of the mass media are important to contemporary politics ... in the transition to liberal democratic politics in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe the media was a key battleground.\"\n\nSecond, there are election issues. These include campaign issues, debates and commercials. Election years and political campaigns can shift certain political behaviors based on the candidates involved, which have different degrees of effectiveness in influencing voters.\n\nRecently, some political scientists have been interested in many studies which aimed to analyze the relation between the behavior of social groups and the political outcomes. Some of the social groups included in their studies have been age demographics, gender, and ethnic groups.\n\nFor example, in U.S. politics, the effect of ethnic groups and gender has a great influence on the political outcomes.\n\nLatin Americans have a profound social impact on the political outcome of their vote and are emerging as a strong up-and-coming political force. The most noticeable increase in Latin American voting was in the 2000 presidential election, although the votes did not share a socially common political view at that time. In the 2006 election, the Latin American vote aided tremendously in the election of Florida Senator Mel Martinez, although in the 2004 presidential election, about 44% of Latin Americans voted for Republican President George W. Bush. However, Latin Americans have the lowest voting rate in the United States, with only 47.6% voting in the 2016 Presidential Election in the United States. Currently illegal immigration has been claiming the most attention and Latin Americans, although not completely unanimous, are concerned with the education, employment and deportation of illegal immigrants in the United States. Although the majority of Latin Americans vote for Democratic candidates, Cuban Americans are likely the most conservative of Latinos, with 54% of Cuban American voters casting ballots for Donald Trump in the 2016 Presidential Election, compared to an average of 35% of all Latinos who voted. Although this was represents a net decrease in support for the Republican Party among Cuban Americans, it continues a trend created by the exile of many Cubans after the Cuban Revolution.\n\nAfrican Americans have the second highest voting rates in the United States and even surpassed white voters in the 2008 Presidential Election, although this has declined in the 2016 Presidential Election. In the 2008 Presidential Election and 2012 Presidential election, African Americans voted overwhelmingly for Democratic candidate, Barack Obama. This trend of African Americans voting for candidates of the Democratic Party continued into the 2016 Presidential Election.\n\nWomen in the United States have, in the past 30 years, surpassed male voting rates, with the 2016 Presidential Election having a ratio between females and males of 52 to 48. This trend is often referred to as the Gender Gap and when combined with the tendency of women to vote for Democratic candidates, their effect on political outcomes is extremely important. \nInterdisciplinary studies in biology and political science aim to identify correlates of political behavior with biological aspects, for example the linkage of biology and political orientation, but also with other aspects like partisanship and voting behavior. This field of study is typically referred to genopolitics although it is sometimes referred to as biopolitics, although the term has other meanings.\n\nThe study of possible genetic bases of political behavior has grown since the 1980s. The term genopolitics was coined by political scientist James Fowler in the early-2000s to describe research into identifying specific transporter/receptor genes responsible for ideological orientation beyond the sociopsychological realm of political socialisation.\n\nPolitical scientists also aim to understand what drives individuals to participate in the democratic process, either by voting, volunteering for campaigns, signing petitions or protesting. Participation cannot always be explained by rational behavior. The voting paradox, for example, points out that it cannot be in a citizen's self-interest to vote because the effort it takes to vote will almost always outweigh the benefits of voting, particularly considering a single vote is unlikely to change an electoral outcome. Political scientists instead propose that citizens vote for psychological or social reasons. Studies show, for example, that individuals are more likely to vote if they see their friends have voted or if someone in their household has received a nudge to vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1885890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885890", "title": "Transcript (law)", "text": "Transcript (law)\n\nA transcript is a written record of spoken language. In court proceedings, a transcript is usually a record of all decisions of the judge, and the spoken arguments by the litigants' lawyers. A related term used in the United States is docket, not a full transcript. The transcript is expected to be an exact and unedited record of every spoken word, with each speaker indicated. Such a record was originally made by court stenographers who used a form of shorthand abbreviation to write as quickly as people spoke. Today, most court reporters use a specialized machine with a phonetic key system, typing a key or key combination for every sound a person utters. Many courts worldwide have now begun to use digital recording systems. The recordings are archived and are sent to court reporters or transcribers only when a transcript is requested. Many US transcripts are indexed by Deposition Source so that they may be searched by legal professionals via the Internet. Transcripts may be available publicly or to a restricted group of persons; a fee may be charged.\n\nTranscripts may be produced digitally. Transcripts produced by a digital reporter are often less accurate than those produced by a court stenographer. Only a court stenographer has the ability to control the record and get clarification in real time. \nA transcript is also any written record of a speech, debate or discussion.\n\nRush transcripts are transcript requests that can be processed and mailed, or picked up, within short time of the request (usually 24 hours or less), provided there are no extenuating circumstances (such as unpaid bills). These expedited transcripts normally cost much more than regular transcripts.\n\nSometimes, the first page of a transcript will have the words \"Check Against Delivery\" stamped across it, which means that the transcript is not the legal representation of the speech, but rather only the audio delivery is regarded as the official record. This is better explained in the French version of the message – \"Seul le texte prononcé fait foi\", literally \"Only the spoken text is faithful\".\n\nConversely, it may be that the actual given speech differs from the way the speaker intended, or that it contains extra information that is not pertinent to the central points of the speech and that the speaker does not want to be left as a permanent record.\n\n"}
{"id": "22727646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22727646", "title": "Unemployment Act 1934", "text": "Unemployment Act 1934\n\nThe Unemployment Act 1934 was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom, reaching statute on 28 June 1934. It reduced the age at which a person entered the National Insurance scheme to 14 and made the claiming age 16 years. It also separated benefits earned by paying National Insurance and those purely based on need. To do this, it established two bodies: the Unemployment Insurance Statutory Committee to deal with unemployment benefits earned by payment of National Insurance when in work; and the Unemployment Assistance Board to provide means-tested payments for those not entitled to such benefits. The 1934 Unemployment Act also restored the previous 10% cut in unemployment benefits, brought in after the 1931 May Committee. This was due to a reduction in the number of those unemployed in the UK, which was reduced partially due to the creation of the Iron and Steel Federation in 1934 and the introduction of the National Grid in 1933.\n\nIn order to pass the Unemployment Act, Sir Henry Betterton (Minister of Labour at the time), based his bill on a set of principles. Betterton divided the bill into three separate parts, each of which had a distinct set of principles.\n\n\n\nPart III of the Bill dealt with the transitory provisions—for the transition from the existing arrangements to the amended insurance scheme and the new assistance scheme.\n"}
{"id": "645562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645562", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 1373, adopted unanimously on 28 September 2001, is a counter-terrorism measure passed following the 11 September terrorist attacks on the United States. The resolution was adopted under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, and is therefore binding on all UN member states.\n\nAccording to the official record of the meeting, the meeting convoked at 9:55 pm and adjourned at 10:00 pm. The five-minute meeting exemplified the Security Council's working method, in which the meeting serves only as a public announcement of a decision that has already been reached in secret in \"informal consultations.\" Although the United States is widely credited with initiating Resolution 1373, once adopted unanimously, the resolution became a common act of the Security Council, and therefore all its members at the time had ownership over it.\n\nThe resolution aimed to hinder terrorist groups in various ways. It recalled provisions from resolutions 1189 (1998), 1269 (1999) and 1368 (2001) concerning terrorism. UN member states were encouraged to share their intelligence on terrorist groups in order to assist in combating international terrorism. The resolution also calls on all states to adjust their national laws so that they can ratify all of the existing international conventions on terrorism. It stated that all States \"should also ensure that terrorist acts are established as serious criminal offences in domestic laws and regulations and that the seriousness of such acts is duly reflected in sentences served.\"\n\nThe resolution established the Security Council's Counter Terrorism Committee [CTC] to monitor state compliance with is provisions.\n\nIt also aimed at restricting immigration law, stating that \"before granting refugee status, all States should take appropriate measures to ensure that the asylum seekers had not planned, facilitated or participated in terrorist acts. Further, States should ensure that refugee status was not abused by the perpetrators, organizers or facilitators of terrorist acts, and that claims of political motivation were not recognized as grounds for refusing requests for the extradition of alleged terrorists.\"\n\nHowever, the resolution failed to define 'Terrorism', and the working group initially only added Al-Qaeda and the Taliban regime of Afghanistan on the sanctions list. This also entailed the possibility that authoritarian regimes could label even non-violent activities as terrorist acts, thus infringing upon basic human rights.\n\nThe absence of any specific reference to human rights considerations was remedied in part by Resolution 1456 (2003) which declared that \"States must ensure that any measure taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under international law, and should adopt such measures in accordance with international law, in particular, international human rights, refugee, and humanitarian law.\"\n\nUN Security Council Resolution 1566 picked up loose ends from 1373 by actually spelling out what the Security Council sees as terrorism:\n\nAlthough this definition has operative effect for the purposes of Security Council action, it does not represent a definition of \"terrorism\" which binds all states in international law. That is a task which could only be achieved by way of agreeing to an international treaty under the auspices of the UN General Assembly. Negotiations towards agreeing to such are ongoing, and a Comprehensive Convention exists in draft form, however agreement to its exact terms, most particularly the definition of \"terrorism\", remains elusive.\n\nResolution 1566 also called for the creation of a working group that will expand the list of terrorist entities under sanction beyond the Taliban and Al-Qaeda.\n\nMost states complied with the resolution, with varying willingness (Mexico and Venezuela being quite reluctant, especially concerning the freezing of assets of persons or groups whom they had no evidence of involvement in terrorism), but only a few of them did so by explicitly referring to the UN resolution.\n\nRussia implemented the resolution with great willingness - President of Russia Vladimir Putin translated the resolution into Russian and enacted it as domestic law by 10 January 2002 in the Decree of the President of the Russian Federation No 6 On Measures Towards the Implementation of UN Security Resolution 1373.\n\nOn 1st of April 2014, the Government of Sri Lanka signed an order designating 16 organisations functioning as terrorist fronts on foreign soil freezing all assets and economic resources of those, using this resolution.\n\nRecommendations of the Counter Terrorism Committee 2008 report included increased measures concerning illegal immigration (considered, without evidence, as a serious risk to security) as well as:\n\n\nOxford University public law professor Stefan Talmon argued that this resolution is an example of the United Nations Security Council veering into legislating law in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks when its role is to apply and interpret international law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25079069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25079069", "title": "United States v. O'Hara", "text": "United States v. O'Hara\n\nThe United States of America v. Jerome O'Hara and George Perez (S.D.N.Y., No. 09-mag-2484) is a federal court case for the ongoing trial of Jerome O'Hara and George Perez, two computer programmers who previously worked for Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (BLMIS) until the arrest of the company's chairman, Bernard Madoff, on December 11, 2008.\n\nThe order to issue arrest warrants for O'Hara and Perez was signed on November 12, 2009 by federal magistrate judge Debra C. Freeman. The next morning, FBI agents arrested O'Hara at his home in Malverne, New York and Perez at his home in East Brunswick, New Jersey, and charged them each with conspiracy to falsify books and records, falsifying books and records of a broker–dealer, and falsifying books and records of an investment advisor (IA). The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also served them with civil charges.\n\nAt their bail hearing, federal prosecutor Preet Bharara said: \"The computer codes and random algorithms they allegedly designed served to deceive investors and regulators and concealed Madoff's crimes.\" The attorney for O'Hara, Gordon Mehler, said \"We intend to enter a plea of not guilty\", and the attorney for Perez, Larry Krantz, declined to comment. Federal magistrate judge Ronald L. Ellis set the bail at $1 million with travel restrictions.\n\nO'Hara and Perez began working for BLMIS in 1990 and 1991, respectively.\n\nProsecutors claim that in April 2006, the two men tried to delete 218 computer programs from an IBM server known internally as \"House 17\". According to the SEC, the programs, among other things, outputted volumes of fake trade blotters, stock records, Depository Trust Corporation (DTC) reports and other phantom books and records to substantiate nonexistent trading. The filenames containing the programs were often prefixed with \"SPCL\", which stood for \"special\".\n\nThe FBI and SEC said that later in August or September 2006, O'Hara and Perez withdrew hundreds of thousands of dollars from their personal BLMIS accounts before informing Madoff that they no longer wished to lie for him.\n\nAccording to the FBI, from at least as early as the 1980s through to December 11, 2008, Madoff, Frank DiPascali, and others perpetrated a scheme to defraud clients of the BLMIS IA corporation by accepting billions of dollars of clients' funds under false pretenses, promising to invest the funds for the clients. Instead, they failed to invest the funds and created and distributed false documents that purported to show that the funds had been invested, when they hadn't. Allegedly, they also lied to the SEC and an accounting firm to cover up the fraudulent scheme.\n\nMadoff solicited, and caused others to solicit, prospective clients to open accounts with BLMIS by, among other things, promising to invest funds in common stock, options, and other securities in a way that would achieve high rates of return with little risk. They managed to establish thousands of accounts with BLMIS, representing individual investors, charities, trusts, pension funds, hedge funds, and corporations.\n\nDiPascali, under the direction of Madoff, created a purported investment strategy that was referred to as a \"split strike conversion\" (\"Split Strike\") strategy, and marketed this to clients beginning in or around the early 1990s. Clients whose funds were to be managed within the strategy were promised that:\n\nThousands of BLMIS clients were told that their funds, collectively worth billions, were invested within the Split Strike strategy.\n\nAllegedly, Madoff and others created statements for the \"Split Strike clients\" that listed stocks in which their funds were supposedly invested. The reports falsely made it appear that the returns were approximately 10 to 17 percent per year.\n\nAllegedly, DiPascali and others, in order to conceal the falsehood of the strategy, prepared several, model baskets of S&P 100 stocks, and tracked how these hypothetical baskets would have performed in the actual marketplace to determine what the clients would be told regarding when their funds had \"entered the market\". Data related to chosen baskets of securities would be entered into an IBM AS/400 server known as \"House 17\", which was dedicated primarily to the IA business. Madoff, DiPascali, and others used computer programs that were allegedly written by O'Hara and Perez to allocate \"pro rata\" multiples of the chosen basket, based on clients' purported account balances with BLMIS. These programs would output thousands of pages of fake documents that purported to confirm the purchase of stocks from the chosen basket. A similar process was used when funds were \"removed from the market\".\n\nBecause none of the purchases had actually occurred, Madoff, DiPascali, and others would allegedly price each stock at some chosen price from the range of prices which the stock was selling for on the day that the stocks were supposedly purchased. They supposedly chose a price that would make the trades, if they had actually happened, most favorable, but still making sure that the volume of trades of the stock on the day of the \"trade\" was sufficiently high as to not cause suspicion.\n\nAllegedly, Madoff, DiPascali, and others oversaw the production and mailing of thousands of pages of account \"statements\" each month, which all falsely reflected securities transactions that had not occurred. According to the FBI, they would also routinely add lines representing additional, fictitious option trades for the purpose of making it appear that the accounts had achieved the targeted rate of return.\n\nAt all times during the fraud, BLMIS had a number of clients who were not invested within the Split Strike strategy (\"Non-Split Strike clients\"). The non-Split Strike clients were told that their funds would be invested using strategies that would realize annual rates of return from at least 53 percent. From at least the early 1980s, Madoff and others allegedly took steps to make it appear as though their funds had generated these extraordinarily high returns, when, in fact, their funds had not been invested at all.\n\nThe operations of the \"Market Making\" and \"Proprietary Trading\" businesses of BLMIS principally relied on two computer systems: a Stratus trading platform, and an IBM AS/400 server that was internally known as \"House 05\". The Stratus system was responsible for, among other things, effectuating the trading activities of BLMIS, and it communicated with third parties in connection with trades, in particular, by communicating with trading contra parties. Data was regularly transferred from the Stratus system to House 05.\n\nAllegedly, O'Hara and Perez were very familiar with the back-end workings of the House 05 system, and, among other things, they wrote programs for House 05 that would:\n\nAccording to the FBI, O'Hara and Perez were also responsible for maintaining House 05.\n\nAnother IBM AS/400 server, known internally as \"House 17\", was the principal computer system of the IA business. Unlike House 05, House 17 did not electronically receive trading data from third parties. Allegedly, all data on the House 17 system was generated by DiPascali and others in the IA business, who entered it into the House 17 server.\n\nThe FBI examined backup tapes and used testimony of DiPascali to conclude that O'Hara and Perez developed and maintained computer programs on the House 17 server that were used expressly for the purpose of entering fictitious trading data into the server. FBI agents claim that the House 17 computer programs were used to generate, among other things, thousands of pages of fake account statements, trade confirmations, trading blotters, and other books and records related to BLMIS's purported IA business.\n\nThe United States formally charged O'Hara and Perez with:\n"}
{"id": "47893870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47893870", "title": "United States v. Parke, Davis &amp; Co.", "text": "United States v. Parke, Davis &amp; Co.\n\nUnited States v. Parke, Davis & Co., was a 1960 decision of the United States Supreme Court limiting the so-called \"Colgate\" doctrine, which substantially insulates unilateral refusals to deal with price-cutters from the antitrust laws. The \"Parke, Davis & Co.\" case held that, when a company goes beyond \"the limited dispensation\" of \"Colgate\" by taking affirmative steps to induce adherence to its suggested prices, it puts together a combination among competitors to fix prices in violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act. In addition, the Court held that when a company abandons an illegal practice because it knows the US Government is investigating it and contemplating suit, it is an abuse of discretion for the trial court to hold the case that follows moot and dismiss it without granting relief sought against the illegal practice.\n\nParke-Davis makes pharmaceutical products and markets them through drug wholesalers and drug retailers. The retailers buy these products from the wholesalers or make large quantity purchases directly from Parke Davis. Parke Davis placed in its wholesalers' catalogue a Net Price Selling Schedule listing suggested minimum resale prices on the Parke Davis products that wholesalers sold to retailers and stating that it was \"Parke Davis' continuing policy to deal only with drug wholesalers who observed that schedule.\" The retailers' catalog contained a schedule of minimum retail prices applicable in States with Fair Trade laws, and stated that this schedule was suggested for use also in places such as Virginia and D.C. where there were no Fair Trade laws.\n\nThere were about 260 drugstores in D.C., and about 100 in Richmond, Virginia. Many of these stores were units of the large Peoples Drug Store chain (now CVS). Five drug wholesalers handled Parke Davis products in these areas. The wholesalers observed the resale prices suggested by Parke Davis. However, during the spring and early summer of 1956, drug retailers in the two cities advertised and sold several Parke Davis vitamin products at prices substantially below the suggested minimum retail prices. As a result, the Baltimore office manager of Parke Davis in charge of the sales district that included the two cities sought advice from his head office on how to handle this situation. The Parke Davis attorney advised that the company could legally \"enforce an adopted policy arrived at unilaterally\" to sell only to customers who observed the suggested minimum resale prices. He further advised that this meant that \"we can lawfully say 'we will sell you only so long as you observe such minimum retail prices' but cannot say 'we will sell you only if you agree to observe such minimum retail prices,' since, except as permitted by Fair Trade [laws], agreements as to resale price maintenance are invalid.\" \n\nThe Baltimore branch manager put into effect a program for promoting observance of the suggested minimum retail prices. In order to ensure that retailers who did not comply would be cut off from sources of supply, representatives of Parke Davis visited the five wholesalers and told them, in effect, that not only would Parke Davis refuse to sell to wholesalers who did not adhere to the policy announced in its catalogue, but also that it would refuse to sell to wholesalers who sold Parke Davis products to retailers who did not observe the suggested minimum retail prices. Each wholesaler was interviewed individually and informed that his competitors were also being apprised of this. The wholesalers each indicated a willingness to go along with the Parke Davis policy. Parke Davis representatives also called on the price-cutter retailers and told each that, if he did not observe the suggested minimum retail prices, Parke Davis would refuse to deal with him, and that, furthermore, he would be unable to purchase any Parke Davis products from the wholesalers. Each retailer was also told that his competitors were being similarly informed.\n\nSeveral retailers refused to give Parke Davis any assurances of compliance and continued despite these interviews to advertise and sell Parke Davis products at prices below the suggested minimum retail prices. Parke Davis furnished their names to the wholesalers. Parke Davis refused to fill any direct orders from such retailers, and the wholesalers likewise refused to fill any of their orders. This ban extended to all Parke Davis products, even those necessary to fill prescriptions (on which price cutting had not occurred).\n\nThe president of Dart Drug, one of the price-cutter retailers that Parke Davis had cut off, protested to the assistant branch manager of Parke Davis that Parke Davis was discriminating against him because a drugstore across the street, one of the Peoples Drug chain, had a sign in its window advertising Parke Davis vitamin products at cut prices. The retailer was told that, if this were so, the branch manager \"would see Peoples and try to get them in line.\" The branch manager then visited a vice-president of Peoples and told him \"that anyone that did not go along with our policy, we were not interested in doing business with them.\" Peoples then told Parke Davis that it would stop cutting prices on Parke Davis products. However, five retailers, including Dart Drug, continued their price cutting. Parke Davis decided that at least advertising cut prices should stop and that would lessen the price cutting. A Parke Davis representative visited Dart's president and he said that he might be willing to stop advertising, although continuing to sell at discount prices if shipments to him were resumed. Parke Davis representatives then told each of the other price-cutter retailers that Dart was ready to discontinue price-cut advertising. Each of the retailers said that, if Dart stopped advertising, he would also. Parke Davis reported this to Dart, and then all five retailers discontinued advertising of Parke Davis vitamins at less than suggested minimum retail prices, and Parke Davis and the wholesalers resumed sales of Parke Davis products to them.\n\nHowever, after a month one of the retailers again started newspaper advertising, and, despite the efforts of Parke Davis to prevent it, the others quickly followed suit. At this point, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, on complaint of Dart Drug, began investigating Parke Davis for price fixing. Parke Davis then stopped trying to promote the retailers' adherence to its suggested resale prices, and neither it nor the wholesalers since declined further dealings with the price cutters.\n\nThe US Government sued Parke Davis under §§ 1 and 3 of the Sherman Act for combining and conspiring \"with retail and wholesale druggists in Washington, D.C., and Richmond, Virginia, to maintain the wholesale and retail prices of Parke Davis pharmaceutical products.\" The district court held that the Government's proofs did not establish a violation of the Sherman Act because Parke Davis's actions \"were properly unilateral, and sanctioned by law under the doctrine laid down in the case of \"United States v. Colgate\".\"\n\nThe Government appealed to the Supreme Court, which reversed. Justice Brennan wrote for the majority, Justice Stewart concurred in the judgment, and Justice Harlan, joined by Justices Frankfurter and Whittaker dissented.\n\nJustice Brennan's opinion for the Court began with a review of what the Court had held in its 1919 decision in \"United States v. Colgate & Co.\", since the issue before the Court was whether the conduct of Parke Davis fell under the protection of the \"Colgate\" doctrine. The Government conceded for the purposes of the \"Parke Davis\" case that, under the \"Colgate\" doctrine, a manufacturer, having announced a price-maintenance policy, may bring about adherence to it by refusing to deal with customers who do not observe that policy. The Government contended, however, that \"subsequent decisions of this Court compel the holding that what Parke Davis did here by entwining the wholesalers and retailers in a program to promote general compliance with its price maintenance policy went beyond mere customer selection, and created combinations or conspiracies to enforce resale price maintenance in violation of . . . the Sherman Act.\"\n\n\"The history of the \"Colgate\" doctrine is best understood,\" the Court said, \"by reference to a case which preceded the \"Colgate\" decision, \"Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co.\" In that case, Dr. Miles entered into contracts with wholesale and retail merchants that required them to resell a medicine at prices that Miles fixed. Park refused to sign the contracts, induced customers of Miles to resell to Park, and then Park sold the medicines at cut prices in violation of Miles's resale-price maintenance program. Miles sued Park for inducing Miles's customers to breach their contracts with him. Citing \"Coke on Littleton\", § 360 and \"Mitchel v Reynolds\", the Court held the restrictive agreements that Miles sought to enforce were invalid at common law and under the Sherman Act as well. In the \"Colgate\" case, however, there was no agreement, just a refusal to deal with price cutters. \"The \"Colgate\" decision distinguished \"Dr. Miles\" on the ground that the \"Colgate\" indictment did not charge that company with selling its products to dealers under agreements which obligated the latter not to resell except at prices fixed by the seller.\n\nIn the next case, \"United States v. Schrader's Son, Inc.\", the Government indicted a parts manufacturer for entering into price-fixing agreements with retailers, jobbers and manufacturers who used or resold his products. The \"Schrader's Son\" Court held that \"Colgate\" did not immunize the conduct, and explained that \"Colgate\"\n\nmeant no more than that a manufacturer is not guilty of a combination or conspiracy if he merely \"indicates his wishes concerning prices and declines further dealings with all who fail to observe them . . . \"; however, there is unlawful combination where a manufacturer \"enters into agreements—whether express or implied from a course of dealing or other circumstances—with all customers . . . which undertake to bind them to observe fixed resale prices.\"\n\nThe next decision was \"Frey & Son. Inc. v. Cudahy Packing Co.\", That was a treble damage suit alleging a conspiracy in violation of the Sherman Act between the manufacturer and jobbers to maintain resale prices. In that case, the Court held improper a jury instruction that a Sherman Act violation (price-fixing agreement) could be found if the defendant repeatedly called to the attention of the wholesales and jobbers the minimum price provision of its sales plan and \"the great majority of them not only [expressed] no dissent from such plan, but actually [cooperated] in carrying it out by themselves selling at the prices named.\" But the authority of \"Cudahy\" \"has been seriously undermined by subsequent decisions,\" The \"Parke Davis\" Court said.\n\nIn \"FTC v. Beech-Nut Packing Co.\", the company adopted a policy of refusing to sell to price cutters. It set up a policing system. \" When an offender was cut off, he would be reinstated upon the giving of assurances that he would maintain prices in the future.\" The Court held that the FTC could find a violation of FTC Act § 5 where a practice \"had a \"dangerous tendency unduly to hinder competition or create monopoly.\" The company sought to defend under \"Colgate\", but the Court said that \"the Beech-Nut system goes for beyond the simple refusal to sell goods to persons who will not sell at stated prices, which, in the \"Colgate\" case, was held to be within the legal right of the producer.\" It made no difference that there were not express price-fixing contracts because the course of dealing was equivalent to that. \"Beech-Nut\"\n\nlimit[ed] \"Colgate\" to a holding that, when the only act specified in the indictment amounted to saying that the trader had exercised his right to determine those with whom he would deal, and to announce the circumstances under which he would refuse to sell, no Sherman Act violation was made out. However, because Beech-Nut's methods were as effective as agreements in producing the result that \"all who would deal in the company's products are constrained to sell at the suggested prices,\" the Court held that the securing of the customers' adherence by such methods constituted the creation of an unlawful combination to suppress price competition among the retailers.\n\nThe next case, \"United States v. Bausch & Lomb Optical Co.\", made it clear \"that \"Beech-Nut\" narrowly limited \"Colgate\" and announced principles which subject to Sherman Act liability the producer who secures his customers' adherence to his resale prices by methods which go beyond the simple refusal to sell to customers who will not resell at stated prices.\" In \"Bausch & Lomb\", the Court found a violation of the Sherman Act where the distributor proffered a price-fixing plan and the wholesales joined in \"by cooperating in prices, limitation of sales to and approval of retail licensees.\" The scope of the \"Colgate\" doctrine may have been uncertain before \"Beech-Nut\" and \"Bausch & Lomb\" but those decisions \"plainly fashioned its dimensions as meaning no more than that a simple refusal to sell to customers who will not resell at prices suggested by the seller is permissible under the Sherman Act.\" A combination in violation of the Sherman Act is \"organized if the producer secures adherence to his suggested prices by means which go beyond his mere declination to sell to a customer who will not observe his announced policy.\"\n\nTo sum this up, the Court said:\n\nThe \"Bausch & Lomb\" and \"Beech-Nut\" decisions cannot be read as merely limited to particular fact complexes justifying the inference of an agreement in violation of the Sherman Act. . . . The Sherman Act [also] forbids combinations of traders to suppress competition. True, there results the same economic effect as is accomplished by a prohibited combination to suppress price competition if each customer, although induced to do so solely by a manufacturer's announced policy, independently decides to observe specified resale prices. So long as Colgate is not overruled, this result is tolerated, but only when it is the consequence of a mere refusal to sell in the exercise of the manufacturer's right \"freely to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties with whom he will deal.\" When the manufacturer's actions, as here, go beyond mere announcement of his policy and the simple refusal to deal, and he employs other means which effect adherence to his resale prices, this countervailing consideration is not present, and therefore he has put together a combination in violation of the Sherman Act. Thus, whether an unlawful combination or conspiracy is proved is to be judged by what the parties actually did, rather than by the words they used.\n\nIn this case, the Court explained:\n\nParke Davis did not content itself with announcing its policy regarding retail prices and following this with a simple refusal to have business relations with any retailers who disregarded that policy. Instead, Parke Davis used the refusal to deal with the wholesalers in order to elicit their willingness to deny Parke Davis products to retailers, and thereby help gain the retailers' adherence to its suggested minimum retail prices. The retailers who disregarded the price policy were promptly cut off when Parke Davis supplied the wholesalers with their names. The large retailer who said he would \"abide\" by the price policy, the multi-unit Peoples Drug chain, was not cut off. In thus involving the wholesalers to stop the flow of Parke Davis products to the retailers, thereby inducing retailers' adherence to its suggested retail prices, Parke Davis created a combination with the retailers and the wholesalers to maintain retail prices and violated the Sherman Act.\n\nFurthermore, Parke Davis exceeded the \"limited dispensation\" of \"Colgate\" in still another way. Its treatment of the advertising controversy \"demonstrates how far Parke Davis went beyond the limits of the \"Colgate\" doctrine\":\n\nParke Davis did not rest with the simple announcement to the trade of its policy in that regard followed by a refusal to sell to the retailers who would not observe it. First, it discussed the subject with Dart Drug. When Dart indicated willingness to go along, the other retailers were approached, and Dart's apparent willingness to cooperate was used as the lever to gain their acquiescence in the program. Having secured those acquiescences, Parke Davis returned to Dart Drug with the report of the accomplishment. Not until all this was done was the advertising suspended and sales to all the retailers resumed. In this manner, Parke Davis sought assurances of compliance and got them, as well as the compliance itself. It was only by actively bringing about substantial unanimity among the competitors that Parke Davis was able to gain adherence to its policy.\n\nInstead of inducing the retailers to adhere to the price-maintenance program as a \"matter of individual free choice prompted alone\" by individual self-interest, Parke Davis offered them its products \"packaged in a competition-free wrapping . . . by virtue of concerted action induced by the manufacturer.\" Parke Davis was \"thus the organizer of a price maintenance combination or conspiracy in violation of the Sherman Act.\"\n\nThe district court alternatively rested its judgment of dismissal on the holding that Parke Davis had discontinued the scheme. \"So far as the record indicates any reason, it is that Parke Davis stopped its efforts because the Department of Justice had instituted an investigation.\" The Court said that dismissal in such circumstances was an abuse of discretion:\n\nThe courts have an obligation, once a violation of the antitrust laws has been established, to protect the public from a continuation of the harmful and unlawful activities. A trial court's wide discretion in fashioning remedies is not to be exercised to deny relief altogether by lightly inferring an abandonment of the unlawful activities from a cessation which seems timed to anticipate suit.\n\nJustice Stewart agreed that the record amply \"shows an illegal combination to maintain retail prices.\" He therefore could \"find no occasion to question, even by innuendo, the continuing validity of the \"Colgate\" decision. (The innuendo to which he objects is in such statements as \"So long as \"Colgate\" is not overruled, this result is tolerated.\")\n\nJustice Harlan protested:\n\nThe Court's opinion reaches much further than at once may meet the eye, and justifies fuller discussion than otherwise might appear warranted. Scrutiny of the opinion will reveal that the Court has done no less than send to its demise the Colgate doctrine, which has been a basic part of antitrust law concepts since it was first announced in 1919.\n\nHe found the majority's limited \"Colgate\" doctrine vague and incomprehensible:\n\nThe Court now says that the seller runs afoul of the Sherman Act when he goes beyond mere announcement of his policy and refusal to sell not because the bare announcement and refusal fall outside the statutory phrase, but because any additional step removes a \"countervailing consideration\" in favor of permitting a seller to choose his customers. But we are left wholly in the dark as to what the purported new standard is for establishing a \"contract, combination . . . or conspiracy [under § 1].\"\n\nHe denied that Parke Davis went beyond \"Colgate\". Moreover, he sees the majority's treatment of the trial court's findings as disguised oevrruling of \"Colgate\"—\"I think that what the Court has really done here is to throw the \"Colgate\" doctrine into discard.\" He concludes: \"It is surely the emptiest of formalisms to profess respect for \"Colgate\" and eviscerate it in application.'\n\nIn \"Russell Stover Candies v. FTC\", the FTC, \"in an admitted effort to test the viability of \"Colgate\",\" took the position that an unlawful combination or agreement could be found when a buyer unwillingly submitted to and complied with a supplier's pricing policy in order to avoid termination. The Eighth Circuit reversed, however, pointing to the statement in \"Parke Davis\" that \"a simple refusal to sell to customers who will not resell at prices suggested by the seller is permissible under the Sherman Act\" although an unlawful \"combination is also organized if the producer secures adherence to his suggested prices by means which go beyond his mere declination to sell to a customer who will not observe his announced policy\"; the court added that Parke Davis had been found to have gone far \"beyond the limits of the \"Colgate\" doctrine\" by enlisting wholesalers and retailers to adhere to and participate in the price-fixing program. The court said that the FTC has presented a case in which \"there are no 'plus factors' to take the case beyond \"Colgate\",\" so it reversed the Commission. \"Despite the FTC's attempt to gut \"Colgate\",\" however, \"it did not choose to argue that Section 5 [of the FTC Act] does not require agreement.\" Instead, the FTC attempted to find a violation by invoking § 1 of the Sherman Act, including specifically the requirement of a contract,\ncombination, or conspiracy, but it failed to establish that.\n\nIn \"Business Electronics Corp. v. Sharp Electronics Corp.\", the Supreme Court held that mere evidence of complaints by retailer competitors about price cutting did not permit inference of an agreement to fix prices. The Court held that \"a vertical restraint is not illegal per se unless it includes some agreement on price or price levels.\" The Court explained that some economic effect must be shown to depart from a rule-of-reason analysis: \"[T]here is a presumption in favor of a rule-of-reason standard; [and] departure from that standard must be justified by demonstrable economic effect, such as the facilitation of cartelizing. . . .\" A large part of the rationale of the holding of a Sherman Act violation in \"Parke Davis\" is that Parke Davis organized a horizontal cartel agreement among its direct customers to fix prices.\n\nIn \"Leegin Creative Leather Products v. PSKS, Inc.\", the Supreme Court overruled \"Dr. Miles\". It held \"that vertical price restraints are to be judged by the rule of reason.\" Of this ruling, the dissent (but not the majority of the Court) said:\n\nWe here overrule one statutory case, \"Dr. Miles\", decided 100 years ago, and we overrule the cases that reaffirmed its \"per se\" rule in the intervening years. See, e.g., \"Trenton Potteries\", 273 U.S., at 399-401; \"Bausch & Lomb\", 321 U.S., at 721; \"United States v. Parke, Davis & Co.\", 362 U.S. 29, 45-47 (1960); \"Simpson v. Union Oil Co. of Cal.\", 377 U.S. 13, 16-17 (1964).\n\nThe particular pages of the \"Parke Davis\" opinion that the \"Leegin\" dissent cites include those in which the \"Parke Davis\" Court had found that Parke Davis had put together a horizontal combination or conspiracy among those to whom it sold its products, as in \"Interstate Circuit, Inc., v. United States\". The majority opinion, however, says nothing about overruling \"Parke Davis\".\n\nFurthermore, the majority opinion observed, in \"obiter dictum\", that a vertical arrangement may organize a horizontal cartel:\n\nA horizontal cartel among competing manufacturers or competing retailers that decreases output or reduces competition in order to increase price is, and ought to be, per se unlawful. To the extent a vertical agreement setting minimum resale prices is entered upon to facilitate either type of cartel, it, too, would need to be held unlawful under the rule of reason. This type of agreement may also be useful evidence for a plaintiff attempting to prove the existence of a horizontal cartel.\n\n\"United States v. Apple Inc.\" involved a fact pattern very similar to \"Parke Davis\", but in reverse. A retailer of e-books put together or \"facilitated\" a combination among its suppliers (publishers) to fix and raise prices. The Second Circuit held that \"the district court did not err in determining that Apple orchestrated an agreement with and among the Publisher Defendants, in characterizing this agreement as a horizontal price fixing-conspiracy, or in holding that the conspiracy unreasonably restrained trade in violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act. Pointing to \"express collusion among\" the publishers, the Court said that \"Apple consciously played a key role in organizing that collusion.\" Apple argued that under \"Leegin\" its conduct was vertical and had to be judged under a rule-of-reason analysis. The Second Circuit rejected that argument, saying that it was settled law that a mixed vertical and horizontal conspiracy, where distributors and manufacturers act together to fix prices or engage in other conduct illegal \"per se\", as in this case \"in which a vertical player organizes a horizontal cartel,\" are to be judged under the rules applicable to horizontal cartels: \"In that situation, the court need not consider whether the vertical agreements restrained trade because all participants agreed to the horizontal restraint, which is and ought to be, \"per se\" unlawful.\"\n\nProfessor Robinson argues that \"some surpassingly foolish Supreme Court decisions\" have misinterpreted \"Parke Davis\" as making \"coercion an effective substitute for agreement.\" Although in \"Parke Davis\", \"the Court did not use the term 'coercion' to characterize the manufacturer's enforcement practices (describing them instead as creating a 'combination'),\" a few years later \"the Court in \"Simpson v. Union Oil Co.\" interpreted \"Parke, Davis\" as holding that \"a supplier may not use coercion on its retail outlets to achieve resale price maintenance.\"\n\nProfessor Hovenkamp contends that \"Parke Davis\" partially survives the \"Leegin\" decision. He suggests that \"Parke Davis\" does not find a price-fixing agreement on the basis of \"announced conditions, terminations, or the use of third parties to gather information or to effect a termination.\" Rather, the \"Parke Davis\" Court finds an illegal combination or conspiracy on the basis of \"control of third party resales and, more arguably, individualized negotiations with dealers falling short of traditional agreement, and perhaps even exhortation meetings.\" Although the \"Parke Davis\" case also involved \"wholesalers reporting noncomplying dealers to the manufacturer as forming an 'information conspiracy' with the latter,\" he regards that as no longer surviving as a tenable theory under present law,\n"}
{"id": "16711562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711562", "title": "Water Resources Development Act of 1986", "text": "Water Resources Development Act of 1986\n\nThe Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (WRDA 1986) is part of , a series of acts enacted by Congress of the United States on November 17, 1986. \n\nWRDA 1986 established cost sharing formulas for the construction of harbors, inland waterway transportation, and flood control projects and established rules therefor. It also created hundreds of projects, studies, and plans in almost every state in the nation. It also deauthorized a number of projects. \n\nWRDA 1986 directed the Secretary of the Army to issue guidelines for crediting against the non-Federal share of project cost for flood control any compatible work carried out by local interests. It authorized appropriations for the prosecution of the comprehensive plan of development for specified river basins and projects. \n\nIt also prohibited the Government from initiating any feasibility study for a water resources project until non-Federal interests agree to contribute 50 percent of the costs during the period of the study but exempted from such prohibition any study designed for purposes of navigational improvements. It also prohibited the Government from initiating any planning or engineering authorized by this Act until non-Federal interests agree to contribute 50 percent of the costs during the period of planning and engineering. Finally, WRDA 1986 provided for determining the interest rate when a non-Federal interest elects to repay an amount under this Act over a period of time.\n\nUltimately, WRDA 1986 authorized 262 water projects at a total cost of $16 billion.\n\nAuthorized the Secretary to carry out 35 works of improvement for water resources development and conservation in Alabama, Mississippi, Alaska, Arkansas, California, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Illinois, Kansas, Nebraska, New York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia. \n\nAuthorized construction of the following projects subject to favorable reports by the Chief of Engineers: (1) Rillito River, Tucson, Arizona; (2) Wailua Falls, Wailua River, Kauai, Hawaii; (3) Yazoo River, Mississippi; and (4) Trinity River, Texas. \n\nAuthorized planning, engineering, and design for the following projects: (1) Neponset River, Milton Town Landing to Port Norfolk, Massachusetts; (2) Merrimack River, Massachusetts; (3) Buffalo Harbor, New York; (5) Wheeling Creek Watershed, Ohio; (5) Five Mile Creek, Dallas, Texas; and (6) Fox River Channel, Green Bay, Wisconsin. \n\nDirected the following projects under provisions of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1960: (1) Larkspur Ferry Channel, Larkspur, California; (2) Shelburne Bay, Vermont; and (3) Rudee Inlet, Virginia. \n\nAuthorized the construction of the Agat Small Boat Harbor, Guam, subject to a review and comment period by the Secretary. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary, after a review and comment period, to carry out removal of silt, aquatic growth, and other material in nine lakes. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary, after a review and comment period, to plan, design, and construct 13 streambank erosion control projects in Arkansas, California, Illinois, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nebraska, New Jersey, Ohio, South Dakota, Tennessee, Washington, and West Virginia. \n\nProvides for the Secretary to carry out various beach erosion control, navigation, storm protection, streambank and shoreline erosion control, and harbor maintenance projects. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to undertake interim emergency flood control measures along Wheeling Creek in specified areas of Ohio. \n\nRequires the Secretary, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to jointly develop a feasibility study for the construction of a water resources development project at Tolay Lake, California. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to complete construction of the following projects for run-off and waterflow retardation and soil erosion prevention: (1) Bush River Watershed, Virginia; (2) Great Creek Watershed, Virginia; and (3) Cottonwood-Walnut Creek Watershed, New Mexico. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary of the Army to maintain a harbor of refuge in Port Ontario, Sandy Creek, New York. Authorizes the Secretary to construct shoreline protection measures at the Sky Harbor Municipal Airport, Duluth, Minnesota. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to study water resources needs of river basins and regions of the United States. \n\nDirected the Secretary to prepare feasibility reports on the following water resources projects: (1) Illinois River, Hardin, Illinois; and (2) Kinnickinnic River, Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. Directs the Secretary to study water resourced development in the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. \n\nDirected the Secretary, upon the request of local officials, to survey the potential and methods for rehabilitating former industrial sites, millraces, and similar types of facilities already constructed for use as hydroelectric facilities. \n\nDirected the Secretary to study the capability of the Corps of Engineers to conserve fish and wildlife. \n\nAmended the Water Resources Development Act of 1976 to include the areas of San Francisco and Marin, California, in the Secretary's investigation of flood and related problems in the San Francisco Bay area. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to conduct a study of shoreline protection and beach erosion policy and related projects in view of the expected increases in the levels of the Great Lakes. \n\nDirects the Secretary to expedite completion of the study of New York Harbor and adjacent channels, New York and New Jersey. \n\nDirects the Environmental Protection Agency to study, and report to specified congressional committees on, the extent and adverse environmental effects of dioxin contamination in the Passaic River-Newark Bay navigation system. \n\nDirects the Secretary to study the feasibility of navigation improvements at Saginaw Bay and Saginaw River, Michigan. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to: (1) study the feasibility of constructing shoreline erosion mitigation measures along the Rancho Palos Verdes coastline and in the city of Rolling Hills, California; (2) conduct a nearshore sediment inventory in the offshore waters of Louisiana between Southwest Pass and Sabine Pass in Lake Pontchartrain and in Lake Borgne; and (3) study land acquisition policies applicable to water resources projects. \n\nProhibits the study of any river basin plan which has as its objective the transfer of water from either the Columbia or Arkansas River Basins to any other region or major river basin unless such study is approved by the Governors of all affected States. \n\nDirects the Secretary to conduct a feasibility study of protection from erosion problems on the southern bank of the Black Warrior-Tombigbee River. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to study the feasibility of developing measures to control storm water runoff on a watershed basis. \n\nDirects the Secretary to report to the Congress on the status of feasibility and reconnaissance studies relating to hydroelectric power potential at existing Corps of Engineers projects in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. \n\nDirects the Secretary to expedite the hydroelectric power studies of the Red River Basin Comprehensive Study, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma. \n\nDirects the Secretary to study current practices on the sharing of costs related to the benefits of increased land values resulting from water resources projects, together with potential methods by which any increase in land values should be shared between the Federal Government and non-Federal interests. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to study shoreline protection and beach erosion control policy and related projects in view of the prospect for long-term increases in the levels of the ocean. \n\nDirects the Secretary to determine the extent of shoreline erosion damage in the United States causally related to the regulation of the waters of Lake Superior by the International Joint Commission (United States and Canada). \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to commence the following navigation improvement projects: (1) Oliver Lock and Dam, Black Warrior-Tombigbee River, Alabama; (2) Locks and Dams 5 through 14, Kentucky River, Kentucky; (3) Gallipolis Locks and Dam Replacement, Ohio River, Ohio and West Virginia; (4) Bonneville Lock and Dam, Oregon and Washington - Columbia River and Tributaries, Washington; (5) Lock and Dam 7 Replacement, Monongahela River, Pennsylvania; (6) Lock and Dam 8 Replacement, Monongahela River, Pennsylvania; and (7) Winfield Locks and Dam, Kanawha River, West Virginia. \n\nEstablished an Inland Waterways Users Board to make recommendations regarding construction and rehabilitation priorities and spending levels for the inland waterways.\n\nAuthorized the Secretary to commence 86 flood control projects in Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Tennessee, California, Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Kansas, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, New Mexico, Connecticut, North Carolina, South Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Mississippi, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Guam, and Puerto Rico. \n\nAuthorized construction of the following flood control projects, subject to favorable reports by the Chief of Engineers: (1) Guadalupe River, San Jose, California; (2) Meredosia, Illinois; (3) Muscatine Island, Iowa; (4) Pearl River Basin, St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana; (5) West Bank Hurricane Protection Levee, Jefferson Parish, Louisiana; and (6) James River, South Dakota. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to carry out planning, engineering, and design for 12 flood control projects in, California, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, and Pennsylvania. \n\nAuthorized construction of the following flood control projects in accordance with provisions of the Flood Control Act of 1948: (1) San Francisco River at Clifton, Arizona; (2) Mission Zanja Creek, Redlands, California; (3) Salt and Eel Rivers, California; (4) Monroe and West Monroe, Louisiana, and Ouachita Parish, Louisiana; and (5) Noyes, Minnesota. \n\nAuthorized the construction of the following flood control projects subject to review and comment by the Secretary: (1) Salyersville, Kentucky; (2) Poplar Brook, New Jersey; (3) Pearly River Basin, Mississippi; (4) Great Salt Lake, Utah; and (5) Tarrant County, Texas. \n\nRequired non-Federal interests to agree to participate in and comply with applicable Federal flood plain management and flood insurance programs. \n\nRevised the definition of \"flood control\" to include protection from groundwater induced damages. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to commence 18 shoreline protection projects in compliance with the Coastal Barrier Resources Act in Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Virginia. \n\nAuthorized construction of the following projects subject to a favorable report by the Chief of Engineers: (1) Pinellas County, Florida; (2) Illinois Beach State Park, Illinois; and (3) Coconut Point, Tutuila Island, American Samoa. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to carry out planning, engineering, and design for projects for shoreline erosion control at the following communities in New Jersey: Fort Elsinboro, Sea Breeze, Gandys Beach, Reeds Beach, Pierces Point, and Fortescue. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to carry out the project for beach erosion control at Orchard Beach, New York, in accordance with the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1962. \n\nDirects the Secretary to apply to cost sharing provisions of the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 to periodic nourishment of the continuing construction project at Westhampton Beach, New York, for a period of 20 years after enactment of this Act. \n\nWRDA 1986 modified 72 specific projects for navigation improvements and flood control in Virginia, Ohio, New York, Louisiana, Kentucky, Oregon, Colorado, California, Hawaii, Colorado, Alabama, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, Texas, District of Columbia, Maryland, Mississippi, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, New York City, New Jersey, Georgia, Florida, Montana, Pennsylvania, Iowa, Tennessee, Michigan, Oklahoma, Wyoming, Colorado, Florida, Montana, Virginia, Washington, Delaware, Vermont, New Mexico, and Connecticut. \n\nEstablishes ceilings for Corps of Engineers construction activities for FY 1987 through 1991. Provides that project costs under this Act may only be increased for changes in construction costs and for modifications that do not alter the functions of the project. \n\nRequired water resources projects to address the enhancement of national economic development in the formulation and evaluation of such projects. \n\nDirected the Secretary to prepare a feasibility report for every water resource study authorized. Enumerates information to be included in such report. Directs the Secretary, before preparing a feasibility report, to perform a reconnaissance survey of the potential water resources project to define problems with the project, together with their possible solutions. \n\nRequired the mitigation of fish and wildlife losses to be undertaken before construction on the project involved begins. Authorizes the Secretary to mitigate damages to fish and wildlife. \n\nDeems the benefits attributable to environmental quality measures included in a water resources project to be at least equal to project costs. \n\nEstablishes an Environmental Protection and Mitigation Fund. Authorizes appropriations for this Fund for fiscal years beginning with FY 1986. Authorizes use of the Fund to mitigate project-induced losses to fish and wildlife production and habitat. \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1970 to allow an agreement with States for water resources projects to reflect that it does not obligate future State appropriations for performance when such obligation would be inconsistent with State constitutional or statutory limitations. Establishes penalties for non-Federal interest noncompliance with such agreements and interest rates for delinquent payments. \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1968 to increase the per-project Federal reimbursement to States or political subdivisions for water resources development projects. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary, for projects for which the Federal cost is less than $3,000,000, to disregard frequency of flooding, drainage area, and amount of runoff in the preparation of feasibility reports for projects for flood damage prevention in urban and rural areas. \n\nAuthorizes the Chief of Engineers to perform emergency work, at the request of a Governor, on public and private lands and waters made necessary by an emergency or disaster which is essential for the preservation of life and property. \n\nRequires surveying and mapping services of a water resources project to be undertaken in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949. \n\nRequires the Secretary to disclose petroleum product information to any State taxing agency that requests it, if such State has a law which protects the confidentiality of the information. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1976 to authorize appropriations for each fiscal year beginning after FY 1986 for increased law enforcement services at water resources development projects during peak visitation periods. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 to increase the authorized appropriations to States for planning assistance. \n\nRequires the Secretary and the Chief of Engineers to compile laws relating to water resources development enacted after November 8, 1966, and before January 1, 1987. Requires that such laws be printed for the use of the Department of the Army, the Congress, and the general public. Directs the Secretary to reprint the volumes containing such laws enacted before November 8, 1966 and transmit such volumes to the Congress. \n\nDirects the Secretary to prepare biennially a public report for each State containing a description and the status of each water resources project in such State. \n\nRequires the acquisition of required recreation lands along with the acquisition of other lands relating to a water resources project. Prohibits the Secretary from requiring non-Federal interests to assume operation of any federally-run facility as a condition for the construction of new recreational facilities. Requires reports on projects having recreational benefits to describe the anticipated impact of proposed projects on existing recreational facilities. \n\nAmends the Watershed Protection and Flood Protection Act to require that certain watershed projects contain benefits directly related to agriculture. \n\nDirects the Secretary of Agriculture to report to the appropriate congressional committees on the feasibility, desirability, and the public interest involved in requiring that public access be provided to all water impoundments that have recreation-related potential and that were authorized pursuant to the Watershed Protection and Flood Protection Act. \n\nAmends the Water Supply Act of 1958 to provide for States to reimburse Corps of Engineer projects on an annual basis. Amends the Water Resources Development Act of 1976 to provide that the non-Federal share of costs for disposal of material on beaches shall be 50 percent (currently, such share is 100 percent). Authorizes the Secretary to provide beach nourishment for certain water resources projects for up to 50 years after construction is initiated on such projects (currently, beach nourishment is authorized for up to 15 years). Authorizes the Secretary to acquire nondomestic beach fill if, for environmental or economic reasons, such material is non available from domestic sources. \n\nAmends the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 to impose cost liability upon the owner, lessee, or operator of a sunken vessel removed from navigable waters by the United States. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to investigate, study, plan, and implement structural and nonstructural measures for the prevention of shore damages attributable to Federal navigation works, if a non-Federal public body agrees to operate and maintain such measures under regulations of the Secretary. \n\nAmends the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1958 to increase authorized appropriations for the control of aquatic plant growths. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance, upon request, to States or local governments to carry out projects for renovating navigable streams and tributaries by cost-effective methods, if the non-Federal interests contribute half the costs. Authorizes the Secretary to preserve, restore, and maintain historic properties located on water resource development project lands if such properties have been entered into the National Register of Historic Places. \n\nDirects the Army, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Soil Conservation Service to take necessary action to ensure that information relating to flood hazard areas is available to the public. \n\nAllows the General Services Administration to dispose of any Corps of Engineers vessel, or related equipment, used for dredging that is declared to be in excess of Federal needs. Provides that proceeds from the sale or lease of such vessels or equipment shall be deposited into the revolving fund authorized by the Civil Functions Appropriations Act. \n\nDirects the Secretary, when considering permit applications for docks and boat launching facilities, to consider the needs for lighting from sunset to sunrise to make such facility's presence known within a reasonable distance. \n\nAuthorizes the use of Farmers Home Administration assistance to pay the non-Federal share of water resources projects. \n\nAmends the Flood Control Act of 1970 to increase authorized appropriations for the Arkansas River Basin and Red River Basin chloride control projects. \n\nProhibits water from being diverted from any portion of the Great Lakes within the United States unless such diversion is approved by the Governor of each of the Great Lake States. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 to increased authorized appropriations for the Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area, Kentucky and Tennessee. \n\nEstablishes the Cross Florida National Conservation Area. Provides that the State of Florida shall retain jurisdiction and responsibility for water resources planning, development, and control of the surface and ground water of the Conservation Area. \n\nDirects the Secretary, in consultation with the U.S. Forest Service, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the State of Florida, to develop and transmit to the Congress a comprehensive management plan with respect to lands in the Conservation Area. \n\nDirects the Secretary to operate the Rodman Dam in a manner which will assure the continuation of Lake Ocklawaha. Prohibits the Secretary from operating the Eureka Lock and Dam in a manner which would create a reservoir on lands not flooded on January 1, 1984. \n\nDirects the Secretary to acquire lands held by the Canal Authority of the State of Florida for the barge canal deauthorized by this Act. Directs the Canal Authority to make payments to specified Florida Counties. \n\nAuthorizes the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma to design and construct hydroelectric generating facilities at the W.D. Mayo Lock and Dam on the Arkansas River in Oklahoma. \n\nAuthorizes the irrigation projects known as the Hilltop Irrigation District (Brule County) and the Gray Goose Irrigation District (Hughes County), South Dakota, as units of the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program. \n\nAmends the Water Resources Research Act to establish the High Plains Study Council to: (1) review research work conducted by State advisory committees; and (2) coordinate such research to avoid duplication of efforts by States of the High Plains. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish within each State of the High Plains Region an Ogallala Aquifer technical advisory committee (the State Committee). Directs such State Committee to: (1) review existing State laws concerning water management and recommend appropriate changes; (2) establish State priorities for water resources research and demonstration projects; and (3) provide information and technical assistance concerning the need for water conservation and management. \n\nDirects the Secretary to allocate annually funds to States of the High Plains Region for research in water-use efficiency, cultural methods, irrigation technologies, water-efficient crops, and water and soil conservation. Directs that such funds shall be distributed to State institutions of higher learning on the basis of merit. \n\nDirects the Secretary to divide funds among the States of the High Plains Region for research into: (1) precipitation management; (2) weather modification; (3) aquifer recharge opportunities; (4) saline water uses; (5) desalinization technologies; (6) salt-tolerant crops; and (7) ground water recovery. \n\nDirects the Secretary to allocate annually funds to High Plains Region States for grants to farmers for demonstration projects in: (1) water-efficient irrigation technologies and practices; (2) soil and water conservation management systems; and (3) the growth and marketing of more water-efficient crops. Provides that such grants to farmers shall be made on the basis of merit. \n\nDirects the Secretary of the Army, acting through the United States Geological survey, to monitor the levels of the Ogallala Aquifer, and report annually to the Congress. \n\nRequires that the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program be prosecuted to its ultimate development as rapidly as possible. \n\nDirects the Secretary of the Army to undertake a program for the control of river ice, to assist communities in the breakup of such ice, and to provide technical assistance to local units of government to control or break up such ice. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1988 through 1992. \n\nDeclares whitewater recreation to be a purpose of the Summersville Lake project on the Gauley River, West Virginia. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to cooperate with governments in Canada to study and to construct reservoir projects for storage in the Souris River Basin in Canada to provide flood control benefits in the United States. Deauthorizes construction of the Burlington Dam, North Dakota, and certain modifications to the dam structure at Lake Darling, North Dakota, upon completion of the Canadian structures. Authorizes completion of such projects if an agreement for the Canadian structures cannot be consummated. Authorizes the Secretary to make flood control modifications to the Lake Darling structure. \n\nDeclares specified lands in North Dakota to be held in trust by the United States for the benefit and use of the Three Affiliated Tribes of the Fort Berthold Reservation and to be part of such reservation. Directs the Secretary of the Interior, in consideration for such transfer in trust, to transfer to the United States lands of equal value held in trust for the Tribes which are required for the maintenance and operation of the Garrison Dam and Reservoir project. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to pay the Federal share of the settlement amount resulting from a specified decision of the Engineer Board of Contract Appeals. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to establish and develop campgrounds for individuals 62 years of age or older at any lake or reservoir under the Secretary's jurisdiction. Authorizes appropriations for fiscal years beginning 1984. Authorizes the development of and appropriations for a 62-or-older campground in Texas at the Sam Rayburn Dam and Reservoir. Identifies such parcel of land by metes and bounds. \n\nDeclares the intent of the Congress to recognize the importance of the economic vitality of the Great Lakes region and Saint Lawrence Seaway as the \"Fourth Seacoast\" of the United States. Establishes the Great Lakes Commodities Marketing Board (the Board) to develop a strategy to improve the capacity of the Great Lakes region to produce, market, and transport commodities in a timely manner and to maximize the efficiency and benefits of market products produced in and/or shipped through the Great Lakes region. Requires the strategy to address environmental issues relating to transportation on the Great Lakes and marketing difficulties experienced due to late harvest seasons in the Great Lakes region. Requires such strategy to develop and analyze various information concerning marketing and shipping in the Great Lakes region. Outlines the composition and organizational rules for the Board. Requires the Board, no later than September 30, 1989, to submit a report to the President and both Houses of the Congress on strategies to assure maximum economic benefits to users of the Great Lakes region. Terminates the Board 180 days after such report is submitted. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1987 through 1990. \n\nDirects the President to invite the Government of Canada to join in the formation of an international advisory group to: (1) develop a bilateral program for improving navigation on the Great Lakes; and (2) conduct investigations and make recommendations for a systemwide navigation improvement program on the Great Lakes. Outlines the composition and organizational rules for such advisory group. Requires such group, one year after its formation and biennially thereafter, to report to the Congress and the Canadian Parliament on its progress. \n\nDirects the Secretary and the EPA to carry out a review of the environmental, economic, and social impacts of navigation in the U.S. portion of the Great Lakes. Requires the Secretary and the Administrator to submit an interim report to the Congress by September 30, 1988, and a final report by September 30, 1990. \n\nProvides that certain prohibitions and provisions for review of activities in waters of the U.S. shall not apply to any water development projects at the Great Miami River Basin or the Great Miami River and its tributaries in Ohio. \n\nProvides that any lease for projects in this Act shall continue in effect on and after December 31, 1989, until such lease is terminated by the leaseholder. Requires fair market values for such leases after such date. Enumerates conditions required before the Secretary may terminate a lease on or after December 31, 1989. \n\nAuthorizes review by the Secretary of water projects constructed before enactment of this Act to determine the need for modifications to improve environmental quality. Authorizes the Secretary to carry out a demonstration program within two years of enactment of this Act for the purpose of making modifications in the structures and operations of water projects constructed before enactment. Requires a report to the Congress concerning such project. Authorizes appropriations. \n\nRequires the Secretary to expedite completion of a study for a new lock parallel to Poe Lock on the Saint Lawrence Seaway and submit a report to the Congress. Directs the Secretary to report to the Congress every January. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to construct and improve facilities at the Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority, Port of Buffalo. \n\nRequires the Secretary, beginning October 1, 1987, to carry out measurements and make necessary computations relating to the diversion of water from Lake Michigan and to coordinate the results with downstate Illinois interests. Defines the measurements to be taken. Authorizes appropriations beginning with FY 1986. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to undertake certain construction and repair on the Tutuila Islands, American Samoa. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to conduct a study of the effects of Great Lakes water consumption on economic growth and environmental quality in the Great Lakes region and of control measures that can be implemented to reduce the quantity of water consumed. Authorizes appropriations for such study. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to acquire from willing sellers land which is subject to frequent flood damage, located within the Passaic River Basin flood control study area. \n\nAuthorizes and directs the Secretary to construct a second lock adjacent to the existing lock at Sault Sainte Marie, Michigan. \n\nDirects the Secretary to consider structural, nonstructural, and primarily nonstructural alternatives to solving the water resources problem of the Upper St. John's River Basin, Florida. \n\nDirects the Secretary to consult with concerned Great Lake States regarding the selection of disposal areas for dredged material. \n\nAllows the Secretary to waive local cost-sharing requirements up to $200,000 and approve the construction of projects with a lower benefit to cost ratio in American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to undertake streambank erosion protection measures along the Ohio and Wabash Rivers, Illinois. \n\nDeclares the interest rate for analyzing the costs and benefits of the San Luis Rey River Flood control program, San Diego, California, to be that agreed upon under the Flood Control Act of 1968. \n\nDirects the Secretary of Transportation to transmit to the Congress a list of those bridges over navigable waters of the United States constructed, reconstructed, or removed between January 1, 1948, and January 1, 1985. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to perform dredging in Avalon Bay, Santa Catalina Island, California. \n\nModifies the project for flood control for Ellicott Creek, New York, to allow a credit against the non-Federal share of the cost of construction. \n\nAmends the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 to declare the New York Bight Apex and the \"106-Mile Ocean Waste Dump Site\" as unsuitable for dumping of municipal sludge. \n\nDeclares the Federal share of the cost of construction of the Chicago Tunnel and Reservoir Project, Illinois, to be 75 percent. \n\nDeauthorized over 300 flood control, hydroelectric power, or navigation projects\n\nAuthorized the Secretary to construct deep-draft harbor projects in Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, Virginia, California, New York and New Jersey. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to construct 35 general cargo and shallow harbor projects in Alaska, California, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, Texas, Washington, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, US Virgin Islands, and Louisiana. \n\nAllowed a non-Federal interest to submit to the Secretary for review a feasibility study of a proposed harbor or inland harbor project. Required the Secretary to submit to the Congress the results of the review together with recommendations and to credit the non-Federal share of the costs of such study if the project is subsequently authorized by law. \n\nProvided for the undertaking by non-Federal entities of the construction of navigation projects approved by the Secretary and for crediting the non-Federal share of such construction. Requires the Secretary, prior to such construction, to coordinate and schedule Federal, State, and local actions regarding environmental assessments, project reviews and permits. \n\nAuthorized appropriations out of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for each fiscal year to pay 100 percent of the eligible operations and maintenance costs of the Saint Lawrence Seaway and 40 percent of such costs of commercial navigation of all harbors and inland harbors within the United States. Authorizes appropriations out of for each fiscal year to pay the balance of all eligible operations and maintenance costs. \n\nExpressed the policy of the Congress that use of the disposal site known as \"Mud Dump\" near Sandy Hook, New Jersey, shall be terminated, and replacement sites shall be designated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency within three years of the enactment of this Act. Requires annual reports by the Administrator concerning such designation. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants to any non-Federal interest operating a project for a port for provision of emergency response services in such port. Authorizes the Secretary to make a grant to the non-Federal interest operating Morro Bay Harbor, California, for construction of a new port office. \n\nProvides that Congress recognizes the Upper Mississippi River System as a nationally significant ecosystem and commercial navigation system, and provides for the administration and regulation of such system. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to provide for the construction of a second lock at locks and dam 26, Mississippi River, Alton, Illinois and Missouri. Authorizes the Secretary, in concert with the Secretary of the Interior and the Association, to undertake various programs for the enhancement of the Upper Mississippi River System. Authorizes appropriations for this purpose. Authorizes such Secretary to implement a program of recreational projects for the System. Authorizes appropriations for this purpose. \n\nAmends the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1958 to increase the authorized appropriations for the operation of the Illinois and Mississippi Canal. \n\nAmends public law concerning the definition of \"dam\". Authorizes appropriations for FY 1988 through 1992. Provides for the distribution of such funds among the States. \n\nDirects the Secretary to provide assistance to any State that establishes and maintains a dam safety program which includes the following: (1) a procedure for the review of dam plans to determine their safety; (2) a procedure to determine that such a dam will be operated in a safe manner; (3) a procedure for inspection at least once every five years, or more if warranted; (4) the State has the power to modify the dam to assure its safety; (5) the State develops a system of emergency procedures to be followed in the event of dam failure; and (6) the State has the necessary emergency funds to make immediate repairs in order to protect human life and property. Provides for the approval of submitted programs within 120 days unless notified prior to that time by the Secretary. Provides for periodic review of dam safety programs by the Secretary. \n\nAuthorizes the establishment of a National Dam Safety Review Board to review and monitor State implementation of this Act. \n\nRequires Federal officials to consult and cooperate with State officials on the design and safety of dams. Authorizes appropriations for the training of State dam safety inspectors for FY 1988 through 1992. \n\nDirects the Secretary to begin research to develop techniques and equipment for more efficient dam inspection. Provides for State participation in such research. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1988 through 1992. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to maintain and publish information on the inventory of dams authorized under this Act. Authorizes appropriations. \n\nProvides that no funds authorized in this Act shall be used to construct or repair any Federal or non-Federal dam. \n\nRequires reports to certain congressional committees which propose construction of water impoundment facilities to include information on the consequences of failure and geologic or design factors which could contribute to the possible failure of such facilities. \n\nProvides for the recovery of costs incurred in the modification of dams and related facilities caused by new hydrologic or seismic data or changes deemed necessary for safety purposes. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to perform detailed engineering studies to determine the structural integrity of any dam found to contain hazardous conditions during an inspection. Requires the dam owner to reimburse the Secretary for expenses. \n\nAuthorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance to the repair of the spillway and other measures to restore the safety of the dam used in the Schuyler County Public Water Supply District Number 1, Missouri. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance for necessary repairs to the Milton Dam, Mahoning County, Ohio. \n\nDesignates the following reservoirs, harbors, and locks and dams: (1) Jennings Randolph Lake, Maryland and West Virginia; (2) James W. Trimble Lock and Dam, Arkansas; (3) Arthur V. Ormond Lock and Dam, Arkansas; (4) Greilickville Harbor, Michigan; (5) Wilbur D. Mills Dam, Arkansas; (6) S. W. Taylor Memorial Park, Alabam; (7) H. K. Thatcher Lock and Dam, Arkansas; (8) DeWayne Hayes Recreation Area, Mississippi; (9) Winthrop Rockefeller Lake, Arkansas; (10) Wehrspann Lake, Nebraska; and (11) Jack D. Maltester Channel, California. \n\nHarbor Maintenance Revenue Act of 1986 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax on the value of commercial cargo loaded onto or unloaded from commercial vessels at U.S. ports. Provides an exemption from such tax: (1) for cargo loaded in or destined for Alaska, Hawaii, or any possession of the United States; (2) where the transportation of such cargo has been subject to the excise tax for fuels used in commercial transportation on inland waterways; (3) for the Government of the United States; and (4) bonded commercial cargo entering the United States for transportation and direct exportation to a foreign country. \n\nEstablishes within the Treasury of the United States the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Provides that amounts from such fund shall be available for: (1) the operation and maintenance of those portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation; (2) the operation and maintenance costs of commercial waterways within the United States; and (3) the payment of certain rebates. Provides for the transfer of certain charges and tolls from the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. \n\nIncreases the tax on fuel used in commercial transportation on inland waterways beginning in 1987. Amends the Inland Waterways Revenue Act of 1978 to include the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway from the Tennessee River to the Warrior River at Demopolis, Alabama, as an inland and intracoastal waterway. \n\nEstablishes in the Treasury of the United States the Inland Waterways Trust Fund. Provides that amounts from such trust fund shall be available for construction and rehabilitation expenditures for navigation on inland and coastal waterways. \n\nDirects the Secretary of State to initiate discussions with the Government of Canada regarding the elimination or reduction of all tolls on the international Great Lakes and the Saint Lawrence Seaway. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to report to the Congress on the progress of such discussions and its economics effect on waterborne commerce. \n\nDirects the Secretary of the Treasury to study, and report to the Congress on, the impact of the port use charge on potential diversions of cargo from U.S. ports to ports of countries contiguous to the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "25819624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25819624", "title": "Whale conservation", "text": "Whale conservation\n\nWhale conservation is the international environmental and ethical debate over whale hunting. The conservation and anti-whaling debate has focused on issues of sustainability as well as ownership and national sovereignty. Also raised in conservation efforts is the question of cetacean intelligence, the level of suffering which the animals undergo when caught and killed, and the importance that the mammals play in the ecosystem and a healthy marine environment.\n\nThe International Whaling Commission (IWC) 1986 moratorium on commercial whaling, the value of lethal sampling of whales for scientific research in order to establish catch quotas has also been debated. The value of whaling to fisheries as a method of controlling whales' perceived negative impact on fish stocks is another point of debate.\n\nPrior to the setting up of the IWC in 1946, unregulated whaling had depleted a number of whale populations to a significant extent, and several whales species were severely endangered. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) notes that the Atlantic population of gray whales was made extinct around the turn of the eighteenth century. Examination of remains found in England and Sweden found evidence of a separate Atlantic population of gray whales existing up until 1675. Radiocarbon dating of subfossil remains has confirmed this, with whaling the possible cause.\nWhaling and other threats have led to at least five of the 13 great whales being listed as endangered. A past ban which was implemented around the 1960s has helped some of these species of whale to recover. According to IUCN's Cetacean Specialist Group (CSG), \"Several populations of southern right whales, humpbacks in many areas, grey whales in the eastern North Pacific, and blue whales in both the eastern North Pacific and central North Atlantic have begun to show signs of recovery.\" Populations of many other whales species are also increasing.\n\nOther whale species, however (in particular the minke whale) have never been considered endangered.\n\nDespite this, opponents of whaling argue that a return to full-scale commercial whaling will lead to economic concerns overriding those of conservation, and there is a continuing debate as to how to describe the current state of each species. For instance, conservationists are pleased that the sei whale continues to be listed as endangered, but Japan says that the species has swelled in number from 9,000 in 1978 to about 28,000 in 2002, so its catch of 50 sei whales per year is safe and the classification of endangered should be reconsidered for the North Pacific population.\n\nSome North Atlantic states have recently argued that fin whales should not be listed as endangered anymore and criticize the list for being inaccurate. IUCN has recorded studies showing that more than 40,000 individuals are present in the North Atlantic Ocean around Greenland, Iceland, and Norway. There is no information about fin whales in areas outside of the Northern Atlantic, where they still hold the status of being endangered.\n\nA complete list of whale conservation statuses as listed by the IUCN is given below. Note that, in the case of the blue and gray whales, the IUCN distinguishes the statuses of various populations. These populations, while not regarded as separate species, are considered sufficiently important in terms of conservation.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Atlantic population of gray whale became extinct in late 17th Century. It is not listed as a part of IUCN's red list.\n\nWhaling is a method of hunting whales for their meat, oil and blubber. The hunting of whales on an industrial scale began in the 17th century and into the 20th century, and as a result of the quantities caught the whale is an endangered species. The International Whaling Commission (IWC) banned commercial whaling in 1986 to increase the remaining whale population in the seas.\n\nAn alternative method of whaling would be by farming whales in captivity has never been attempted and would almost certainly be logistically impossible . Instead, whales are killed at sea often using explosive harpoons, which puncture the skin of a whale and then explode inside its body. Anti-whaling groups say this method of hunting is cruel, particularly if carried out by inexperienced gunners, because a whale can take several minutes or even hours to die. In March 2003, Whalewatch, an umbrella group of 140 conservation and animal welfare groups from 55 countries, led by the World Society for the Protection of Animals (Now known as World Animal Protection), published a report, \"Troubled Waters\", whose main conclusion was that whales cannot be guaranteed to be harvested humanely and that all whaling should be stopped. The report quoted official figures that said 20% of Norwegian and 60% of Japanese-captured whales failed to die as soon as they had been harpooned. WSPA further released a report in 2008 entitled \"Whaling: Defying international commitments to animal welfare?\" in which the culling of whales is compared–unfavorably–with slaughter guidelines for farm animals from the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE).\n\nJohn Opdahl of the Norwegian embassy in London responded by saying that Norwegian authorities worked with the IWC to develop the most humane methods. He said that the average time taken for a whale to spunk up after being shot in the blowhole, was the same as or less than that of animals killed by big game hunters on safari. Pro-whalers also say that the free-roaming lifestyle of whales followed by a quick death is less cruel than the long-term suffering of factory-farmed animals.\n\nIn response to the UK's opposition to the resumption of commercial whaling on the grounds that no humane method of catching whales exists, or \"is on the horizon\", the pro-whaling High North Alliance points to apparent inconsistencies in the policies of some anti-whaling nations by drawing comparisons between commercial whaling and recreational hunting. For instance, the United Kingdom allows the commercial shooting of deer without these shoots adhering to the standards of British slaughterhouses, but says that whalers must meet such standards as a pre-condition before they would support whaling. Moreover, fox hunting, in which foxes are mauled by dogs, is legal in many anti-whaling countries including Ireland, the United States, Portugal, Italy and France (although not in the United Kingdom) according to UK Government's Burns Inquiry (2000). Pro-whaling nations argue that they should not be expected to adhere to animal-welfare standards which anti-whaling countries do not themselves follow consistently, and draw the conclusion that the cruelty argument is a mere expression of cultural bigotry, similar to the Western attitude towards the eating of dog meat in several East Asian countries.\n\nThe whaling industry was initially supported by governments of whaling nations, then gradually regulated from 1946 with the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, and in 1949 with the creation of the International Whaling Commission, to conserve whale stocks.\n\nThe concerns of over-exploitation, a threat of extinction and popular culture widely viewing whales as interesting and intelligent, led to a campaign called \"Save the Whales\" which began to highlight the plight of whales on a larger scale. The organized and dedicated protection and conservation of whales was started in 1971 by the American Cetacean Society, Ocean Alliance (formerly the Whale Conservation Institute), the Whale Center, and the Connecticut Cetacean Society, since then the World Wildlife Fund, National Wildlife Federation, Humane Society of the United States, Sierra Club and National Audubon Society all joined the campaign.\n\nThere are many other organizations and governments that have long been actively supporting conservation efforts. In 1975 Greenpeace started its anti-whaling campaign and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society was created in 1977 by Paul Watson, a previous Greenpeace campaigner, to try a different approach using direct action tactics and unconventional methods on the open sea. Neptune's Navy, the name Sea Shepherd refers to their ships, aim to intervene and prevent whaling activities and other forms of poaching to protect marine life.\n\nWith the pressure from member nations the IWC in 1982 adopted a moratorium on commercial whaling, and by 1994 the IWC had created the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary in Antarctica to protect whales and their breeding grounds.\n\nThe documentary-reality television series \"Whale Wars\" in 2008 featuring Sea Shepherd, brought the environmental hardships of the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary and their confrontation with the Japanese whaling fleets to a broader audience. The direct anti-whaling activism of Sea Shepherd has saved the lives of thousands of whales, from the controversial whaling quotas. Greenpeace and Sea Shepherd have both brought significant attention to the controversy and scrutiny of commercial whaling.\n\nThe whale watching industry and anti-whaling advocates argue that whaling catches \"friendly\" whales that are curious about boats, as these whales are the easiest to catch. This analysis claims that once the economic benefits of hotels, restaurants and other tourist amenities are considered, hunting whales is a net economic loss. This argument is particularly contentious in Iceland, as it has among the most-developed whale-watching operations in the world and the hunting of minke whales resumed in August 2003. Brazil, Argentina and South Africa argue that whale watching is a growing billion-dollar industry that provides more revenue and more equitable distribution of profits than commercial whaling by pelagic fleets from far-away developed countries would provide. Peru, Uruguay, Australia, and New Zealand also support proposals to permanently forbid whaling South of the Equator, as Indonesia is the only country in the Southern Hemisphere with a whaling industry. Anti-whaling groups claim that developing countries which support a pro-whaling stance are damaging their economies by driving away anti-whaling tourists.\n\nPro-whaling advocates argue that the economic analysis assumes unsustainable whaling by arguing that whaling deprives the whale-watching industry of whales, and counter that if whales are hunted on a sustainable basis, there is no competition between the two industries. Furthermore, they point out that most whaling takes place outside of coastal areas where whale watching takes place, and communication between any whaling fleet and whale-watching boats would ensure that whaling and whale watching occurred in different areas. Pro-whaling advocates also argue that whaling continues to provide employment in the fishery, logistic and restaurant industries and that whale blubber can be converted into valuable oleochemicals while whale carcasses can be rendered into meat and bone meal. Poorer whaling nations argue that the need for resumption of whaling is pressing. Horace Walters, from the Eastern Caribbean Cetacean Commission stated, \"We have islands which may want to start whaling again - it's expensive to import food from the developed world, and we believe there's a deliberate attempt to keep us away from our resources so we continue to develop those countries' economies by importing from them.\"\n\nA variety of whale species possess large physical brains and are known to have high levels of intelligence compared to other animals. Fin whales, Humpback whales and Sperm whales for example have been found to have spindle neurons, a type of brain cell known to exist only in certain other species of high intelligence: humans, other great apes, bottlenose dolphins and elephants.\n\nThere is an argument that whales should not be killed because of their high intelligence. Pro-whalers claim that pigs also possess high intelligence, and are routinely butchered and eaten, and that intelligence should not be the determining factor of whether an animal is acceptable to eat or not.\n\nWhale meat products from certain species have been shown to contain pollutants such as PCBs, mercury, and dioxins. Levels of pollutants in toothed-whale products are significantly higher than those of baleen whales, reflecting the fact that toothed whales feed at a higher trophic level than baleen whales in the food chain (other high-up animals such as sharks, swordfish and large tuna show similarly high levels of mercury contamination). Organochloride pesticides HCH and HCB are also at higher levels in toothed species, while minke whales show higher levels than most other baleens.\n\nThe red meat and blubber of (toothed) long-finned pilot whales in the Faroe Islands show high toxin levels, which has a detrimental effect on those who eat it. However, in Norway, only the red meat of minke whales is eaten and the levels of toxins conform to national limits, while Japanese health-ministry scientists have found that minke whale meat harvested from the Antarctic, which constitutes the vast majority of whale meat eaten in Japan is similarly within national standards for mercury and PCB levels.\n\nWhale meat is very high in protein and very low in saturated fat.\n\nWhalers say that whaling is an essential condition for the successful operation of commercial fisheries, and thus the plentiful availability of food from the sea that consumers have become accustomed to. This argument is made particularly forcefully in Atlantic fisheries, for example, the cod-capelin system in the Barents Sea. A minke whale's annual diet consists of 10 kilograms of fish per kilogram of body mass, which puts a heavy predatory pressure on commercial species of fish, thus whalers say that an annual cull of whales is needed in order for adequate amounts of fish to be available for humans. Anti-whaling campaigners say that the pro-whaling argument is inconsistent: if the catch of whales is small enough not to negatively affect whale stocks, it is also too small to positively affect fish stocks. To make more fish available, they say, more whales will have to be killed, putting populations at risk. Additionally, whale feeding grounds and commercial fisheries do not always overlap.\n\nProfessor Daniel Pauly, Director of the Fisheries Center at the University of British Columbia weighed into the debate in July 2004 when he presented a paper to the 2004 meeting of the IWC in Sorrento. Pauly's primary research is the decline of fish stocks in the Atlantic, under the auspices of the Sea Around Us Project. This report was commissioned by Humane Society International, an active anti-whaling lobby, and stated that although cetaceans and pinnipeds are estimated to eat 600 million tonnes of food per year, compared with just 150 million tonnes eaten by humans (although researchers at the Japanese Institute for Cetacean Research give figures of 90 million tonnes for humans and 249-436 million tonnes for cetaceans), much of the food eaten by cetaceans (in particular, deep sea squid and krill) is not consumed by humans. However, Japanese do eat krill, and krill is also used in large quantities by fish farms as feed. Pauly's report also claims that the locations where whales and humans catch fish only overlap to a small degree, and he also considers more indirect effects of whales' diet on the availability of fish for fisheries. He concludes that whales are not a significant reason for diminished fish stocks.\n\nMore recent studies have also concluded that there are several factors contributing to the decline in fish stocks, such as pollution and habitat loss.\n\nHowever, the dietary behaviour of whales differs among species as well as season, location and availability of prey. For example, sperm whales' prey primarily consists of mesopelagic squid. However, in Iceland, they are reported to consume mainly fish. In addition to krill, minke whales are known to eat a wide range of fish species including capelin, herring, sand lance, mackerel, gadoids, cod, saithe and haddock. Minke whales are estimated to consume 633,000 tons of Atlantic herring per year in part of Northeast Atlantic. In the Barents Sea, it is estimated that a [potential] net economic loss of five tons of cod and herring per fishery results from every additional minke whale in the population due the fish consumption of the single whale.\n\nSince the 1986 IWC ban on whaling, Japan has conducted its whaling by issuing scientific research permits. The value of \"lethal sampling\" of whales is a highly contentious issue. The stated aim of the Japanese JARPA research program is to establish sustainable whaling in the Antarctic Ocean. The selling of whale meat from the lethal sampling to fish markets is purported to help fund the research, a claim disputed by opponents as being a cover for illegal whaling. The IWC requires information on population structure, abundance and prior whaling history, which anti-whalers argue can be obtained through non-lethal means.\n\nLethal sampling is required to obtain age information and precise dietary composition. The age of a whale can be reliably gathered by examining the ear plug in the head of the dead animal, which accumulates as annual growth rings. Japan initially argued that simple population distribution of whale species is enough to determine the level of sustainability of the hunt and argued that certain species of whale, particularly minke whales, are in sufficient number to be hunted. The anti-whaling side countered by arguing that more accurate composition of population distribution in term of age and sex distribution is needed to determine the sustainability, which ironically provided the justification for the Japanese hunt under the scientific research exemption. According to lethal-sampling opponent Nick Gales, age data is not needed to establish a catch limit for whaling within the framework of the Revised Management Procedure (RMP) computer modeling, which is the stated goal of the Japanese research. However, deputy whaling commissioner of Japan, Joji Morishita, told BBC News that the reason for the moratorium on commercial whaling was scientific uncertainty about the number of whales, and they were asked to collect more data.\n\nDietary information is obtained with lethal sampling by cutting open the stomach of the animal. Opponents of lethal sampling state that dietary habits can be ascertained by biopsies as well as collecting feces from living whales. Proponents counter by stating that biopsies only reveal the type of food consumed (such as fish or krill) and not the exact type of fish, and that feces analysis does not provide as good of a quantitative estimation of dietary consumption.\n\nAlthough lethal sampling is a heavily debated issue, the IWC Scientific Committee acknowledges the usefulness of the data from JARPA. In a November 2008 review of Japan's first 18 years of its scientific whaling program, the IWC stated that the panel was \"very pleased\" with the data that Japan collected, though there was some advice on how these data could be further or better analyzed.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd raised the idea of a proposal to take the Japanese whaling issue to the International Court of Justice (ICJ), with an aim of stopping Japan from conducting scientific research. On May 31, 2010, the Australian Government lodged formal proceedings against Japan in the ICJ in The Hague, Netherlands. In a joint ministerial statement, the government stated that it \"has not taken this decision lightly.\" The New Zealand government then lodged a \"Declaration of Intervention\" with the ICJ on February 6, 2013, in which it deemed Japan as ineligible for a Special Permit that would allow whaling on the basis of scientific research.\n\nThe ICJ heard the case over a period of three weeks in June and July 2013, with neither party in possession of the right to appeal the final decision. On March 31, 2014 the ICJ made the determination that Japanese whaling in the Antarctic is not for scientific purposes.\n\nThe fundamental principle of the animal rights movement is that animals have basic interests that deserve recognition, consideration, and protection. In the view of animal rights advocates, these basic interests give the animals that have them both moral and legal rights. Thus, humans have a moral obligation to minimize or avoid causing animal suffering, just as they have an obligation to minimize or avoid causing the suffering of other humans, and should not use animals as food, clothing, research subjects, or entertainment. Proponents of whaling in Japan have made the argument that forcing cultural norms on Japan is the same as Hindus hypothetically attempting to have an international ban on killing cows.\n\n"}
{"id": "43046387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43046387", "title": "Zephyr Teachout", "text": "Zephyr Teachout\n\nZephyr Rain Teachout (, born October 24, 1971) is an American attorney, author, and Associate Professor of Law at Fordham University. She was a candidate for Attorney General of New York in the 2018 election and her candidacy was endorsed by \"The New York Times\".\n\nIn 2014, Teachout ran for the Democratic Party nomination for governor of New York and lost to incumbent Governor Andrew Cuomo, receiving 34% of the primary vote.\n\nIn August 2015, Teachout became CEO and board chair for the campaign finance reform-oriented organization Mayday PAC, replacing Lawrence Lessig. She stepped down from this position in December 2015 to run for the United States House of Representatives in New York's 19th congressional district. Teachout won the Democratic primary before losing to Republican John Faso in the November 8, 2016 general election.\n\nTeachout was born in Seattle, Washington, the second of five children, to Peter Teachout, a constitutional law professor at Vermont Law School, and Mary Miles Teachout, a state court judge. Her father served in the United States Army as a lieutenant during the Vietnam War and has a law degree from Harvard Law School. At the time of her birth, the family was living in Seattle, where her father was a professor at the University of Washington.\n\nShe was raised on a farm outside Norwich, Vermont. She attended Hanover High School in Hanover, New Hampshire, where she was a champion cross-country runner.\n\nTeachout attended Yale University, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1993. She went on to receive two simultaneous degrees from Duke University in 1999: a JD, \"summa cum laude\", and a Master of Arts in political science. After earning her Juris Doctor degree, Teachout clerked for Chief Judge Edward Roy Becker of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.\n\nTeachout is a professor at Fordham Law School. She was formerly a Visiting Professor of Law at Duke University and a lecturer at the University of Vermont. She served as the Director of Internet Organizing for the 2004 Howard Dean presidential campaign. In 2009, she helped found the Antitrust League. She was the first national director of the Sunlight Foundation, which promotes transparency and accountability in government.\n\nTeachout volunteered at Occupy Wall Street, where she encouraged the movement to focus on the importance of decentralized power, citing the ideas of James Madison, and worked to educate activists in corporate law and policy.\n\nIn January 2017, Teachout joined the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington's lawsuit against President Donald Trump, alleging violations of the Constitution's emoluments clause.\n\nAs of May 2018, Teachout served on the board of advisors of Let America Vote, an organization founded by former Missouri Secretary of State Jason Kander that aims to end voter suppression.\n\nTeachout faced off against incumbent Andrew Cuomo and comedian Randy Credico in the Democratic primary election on September 9, 2014. Teachout first ran for the Working Families Party nomination, but lost to Cuomo. His margin of victory was much smaller than expected, especially since the Working Families Party traditionally cross-endorses the Democratic Party candidate.\n\nTeachout then announced that she would run for the Democratic nomination. Her running mate was Tim Wu, a Columbia University Law School professor who coined the phrase \"net neutrality\". Their platform called for a rollback of Cuomo's tax cuts for the wealthy, investment in transportation and broadband infrastructure, a statewide fracking ban, an end to high-stakes testing and fair funding for schools in both under-resourced and affluent school districts, restoring voting rights to convicted felons, and support for the NY DREAM Act and anti-corruption measures, including public financing of elections to reduce the power of corporate donors and affluent political insiders.\n\nTheir campaign raised $800,000, a small amount for New York state politics. Four days before the primary, polls showed their likely voter share at 26%, in line with the predictions of political professionals.\n\nTeachout and Wu lost to Cuomo and his running mate, former U.S. Representative Kathy Hochul, in the primary on September 9, 2014, but did capture over 34% and 40% of the vote, respectively, with an especially strong showing in upstate New York.\n\nIn March 2015, Teachout moved from Brooklyn to Dutchess County, New York. Ten months later, she announced her candidacy in New York's 19th congressional district's June 2016 Democratic congressional primary. Teachout ran to replace Republican Chris Gibson, who was retiring. In the June 28 primary, Teachout won the Democratic nomination. She was endorsed by Bernie Sanders, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, the National Education Association, New York State United Teachers, National Nurses United, the Communication Workers of America, EMILY's List, and the Sierra Club. She lost to Republican John Faso in the November 8 general election by nine percentage points.\n\nTeachout served as treasurer for Cynthia Nixon's campaign for governor of New York until May 2018, when she announced she was running for Attorney General of New York in the 2018 election. At the time, Teachout was pregnant, expecting a child in October, one month after the primary, and one month before the general election. On August 19, 2018, Teachout received the endorsement of \"The New York Times\" for the position of state Attorney General. \"The Times\"′ editorial board members argued that she would be the ideal candidate to hold both President Trump as well as the state government in Albany to account. \n\nOn September 13, Teachout lost the Democratic primary for Attorney General to Letitia James, receiving 31% of the vote to James's 40.6%.\n\nTeachout was among the minority of Democratic congressional candidates who endorsed Bernie Sanders during the 2016 Democratic presidential primary. She was also among the first candidates Sanders endorsed. Sanders subsequently endorsed her for Attorney General of New York in 2018.\n\nTeachout's platform for her House campaign included a higher minimum wage, increased spending on public infrastructure, a ban on fracking, an increase in manufacturing jobs, property tax cuts, increased investment in rural infrastructure, an end to Common Core and high-stakes testing, and campaign finance reform (specifically working to overturn \"Citizens United v. FEC\").\n\nWhile running for Attorney General of New York, Teachout pledged that she would use the power of the office to sue Trump for violating anti-corruption laws and to force him to divest from his businesses.\n\nTeachout is married to Nicholas S. Juliusburger, a software company executive. They live in Clinton, New York.\n\nTeachout and Juliusburger are expecting their first child in October 2018, and Teachout used footage of her receiving an ultrasound in a campaign advertisement.\n\n\n\n"}
