{"id": "1254755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1254755", "title": "Abdolkarim Soroush", "text": "Abdolkarim Soroush\n\nAbdolkarim Soroush ( ; born Hossein Haj Faraj Dabbagh (born 1945; ), is an Iranian Islamic thinker, reformer, Rumi scholar, public intellectual, and a former professor of philosophy at the University of Tehran and Imam Khomeini International University He is arguably the most influential figure in the religious intellectual movement of Iran. Soroush is currently a visiting scholar at the University of Maryland in College Park, MD. He was also affiliated with other prestigious institutions, including Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Columbia, the Leiden-based International Institute as a visiting professor for the Study of Islam in the Modern World (ISIM) and the Wissenschaftskolleg in Berlin. He was named by \"TIME\" as one of the world’s 100 most influential people in 2005, and by Prospect magazine as one of the most influential intellectuals in the world in 2008. Soroush's ideas, founded on Relativism, prompted both supporters and critics to compare his role in reforming Islam to that of Martin Luther in reforming Christianity.\n\nAbdolkarim Soroush was born in Tehran in 1945. Upon finishing high school, Soroush began studying pharmacy after passing the national entrance exams of Iran. After completing his degree, he soon left Iran for London in order to continue his studies and to become familiar with the modern world.\n\nIt was after receiving a master's degree in analytical chemistry from University of London that he went to Chelsea College, (a constituent college of the University of London which was merged with two other constituent colleges: Queen Elizabeth College and Kings College in 1985) for studying history and philosophy of science. During these years, confrontation between the people and the Shah's regime was gradually becoming more serious, and political gatherings of Iranians in America and Europe, and Britain in particular, were on the increase. Soroush, too, was thus drawn into the field.\n\nAfter the revolution, Soroush returned to Iran and there he published his book \"Knowledge and Value\" (\"Danesh va Arzesh\"), the writing of which he had completed in England. He then went to Tehran's Teacher Training College where he was appointed the director of the newly established Islamic Culture Group. While in Tehran, Soroush established studies in both history and the philosophy of science.\n\nA year later, all universities were shut down, and a new body was formed by the name of the Cultural Revolution Committee comprising seven members, including Abdulkarim Soroush, all of whom were appointed directly by Ayatollah Khomeini. Soroush's joining of the Cultural Revolution committee has been criticized on two sides. He has been accused by orthodox critics of preventing the Islamization of human sciences and by the opposition of the Islamic Republic regime of Iran to involvement in the dismissal of teachers.\nSoroush rejected the opposition accusation. There is not an independent historical research on Soroush's role in events which led to the Cultural Revolution and also his membership and his role in the Cultural Revolution committee. He has welcomed of such study in his interview with Professor Forough Jahanbakhsh - inquiring into modern Iranian intellectual history.\n\nIn 1983, owing to certain differences which emerged between him and the management of the Teacher Training College, he secured a transfer to the Institute for Cultural Research and Studies where he has been serving as a research member of staff until today. He submitted his resignation from membership in the Cultural Revolution Council to Imam Khomeini and has since held no official position within the ruling system of Iran, except occasionally as an advisor to certain government bodies. His principal position has been that of a researcher in the Institute for Cultural Research and Studies.\n\nDuring the 90s, Soroush gradually became more critical of the political role played by the Iranian clergy. The monthly magazine that he cofounded, \"Kiyan\", soon became the most visible forum in post-revolution Iran for religious intellectualism. In this magazine he published his most controversial articles on religious pluralism, hermeneutics, tolerance, clericalism, etc. The magazine was clamped down in 1998 among with many other magazines and newspapers by the direct order of the supreme leader of the Islamic Republic. About a thousand audio tapes of speeches by Soroush on various social, political, religious and literary subjects delivered all over the world are widely in circulation in Iran and elsewhere. Soon, he not only became subject to harassment and state censorship, but also lost his job and security. His public lectures at universities in Iran are often disrupted by hardline Ansar-e-Hizbullah vigilante groups who see his intellectual endeavours as being mainly motivated by anti-regime politics rather than theology per se.\n\nFrom the year 2000 Abdulkarim Soroush has been a visiting scholar at Harvard University teaching Rumi poetry and philosophy, Islam and Democracy, Quranic Studies and Philosophy of Islamic Law. Also a scholar in residence in Yale University, he taught Islamic Political Philosophy at Princeton University in the 2002-3 academic year. From 2003-4 he served as a visiting scholar at the Wissenschaftkolleg in Berlin. He spent the fall semester of 2007 at Columbia University and the spring semester of 2008 at Georgetown University's Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs as a visiting scholar. In the winter of 2012, he was a visiting professor at the University of Chicago teaching Intellectual and Religious History of Modern Iran.\n\nSoroush is primarily interested in the philosophy of science, philosophy of religion, the philosophical system of Molana Jalaleddin Balkhi (Rumi) and comparative philosophy. He is a world expert on Rumi and Persian Sufi poetry.\n\nThe philosophy of Abdolkarim Soroush can be summarized as follows:\n\nSoroush's main contribution to Islamic philosophy is that he maintains that one should distinguish between religious as divinely revealed and the interpretation of religion or religious knowledge which is based on socio-historical factors. In Oxford, professors such as Komeil Sadeghi, Iranian philosopher influenced him so much that Soroush dedicated one of his best books named \"Expansion of Prophetic Experience \" to his honourable master.\n\nSoroush's main thesis, entitled \"The Theoretical Contraction and Expansion of Shari'a\" separates religion per se from religious knowledge. The former, the essence of religion, is perceived as beyond human reach, eternal and divine. The latter, religious knowledge, is a sincere and authentic but finite, limited, and fallible form of human knowledge.\n\nFaith cannot be compulsory. As he told one interviewer, \"True believers must embrace their faith of their own free will - not because it was imposed, or inherited, or part of the dominant local culture. To become a believer under pressure or coercion isn't true belief.`\" This also means that the believer \"must ... remain free to leave his faith.\"\n\nSoroush's political theory is in line with the modern tradition from Locke to the framers of the American constitution. It portrays human beings as weak and susceptible to temptation, even predation. As such, they need a vigilant and transparent form of government. He believes that the assumption of innate goodness of mankind, shared by radical Utopians from anarchists to Islamic fundamentalists underestimates the staying power of social evil and discounts the necessity of a government of checks and balances to compensate for the weaknesses of human nature.\n\nSoroush's political philosophy, as well, remains close to the heart of the liberal tradition, ever championing the basic values of reason, liberty, freedom, and democracy. They are perceived as \"primary values,\" as independent virtues, not handmaidens of political maxims and religious dogma. Soroush entwines these basic values and beliefs in a rich tapestry of Islamic primary sources, literature, and poetry.\n\nSoroush introduced his own definition of the term \"Religious democracy\" which is now a topic in contemporary Iranian philosophy and means that the values of religion play a role in the public arena in a society populated by religious people. Religious democracy falls within the framework of modern rationality and has identifiable elements. It is in this way that we have a plurality of democracies in the international community. \"Religious democracy\" is a subject of intense research in Iranian intellectual circles.\n\nDemocracy where coincides with certain things, it can be secular or religious. Hence, what alters the hue and color of democracy is a society’s specific characteristics and elements. Religious democracy is an example of how democratic values can exist in a different cultural elaboration than what is usually known before. But, in a secular society, some other characteristic is deemed important and focused on, and that becomes the basis for democracy.\n\nIn fact relativistic liberalism and democracy are not identical since democracy is not violated when a faith is embraced, it is violated when a particular belief is imposed or disbelief is punished.\n\nWe do not have one democracy but many democracies in history. We have a plurality of democracies in the international community. What emerged was that a democracy prevailed in different eras depending on the conditions of the time.\n\nIn 2008, in an online open poll, Soroush was voted the 7th topmost intellectual person in the world on the list of Top 100 Public Intellectuals by \"Prospect Magazine\" (UK) and \"Foreign Policy\" (United States).\n\nSoroush's ideas have met with strong opposition from conservative elements in the Islamic Republic. Both he and his audiences were assaulted by Ansar-e Hezbollah vigilantees in the mid-1990s. A law imposing penalties on anyone associating with enemies of the Islamic republic is thought by his allies to have been at least in part provoked by some of Soroush's lectures and foreign affiliations.\n\nAccording to the journalist Robin Wright:\nOver the next year, he lost his three senior academic appointments, including a deanship. Other public appearances, including his Thursday lectures, were banned. He was forbidden to publish new articles. He was summoned for several long `interviews` by Iranian intelligence officials. His travel was restricted, then his passport confiscated.\n\nAt the celebration of the sixteenth anniversary of the American embassy seizure in 1995, Wright found that Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei \"devoted more time berating Soroush...than condemning the United States or Israel.\" \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30966668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30966668", "title": "Alexander Ivanovich Galich", "text": "Alexander Ivanovich Galich\n\nAlexander Ivanovich Galich (; 1783 – 1848) was a Russian teacher, philosopher, and writer.\n\nGalich was a teacher of Latin and Russian literature at the German Saint Peter's School (Petrischule) in St. Petersburg, a professor at St. Petersburg University, a teacher of Alexander Pushkin, and a writer and philosopher who was one of the first followers of the German philosopher Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling in Russia.\n\nGalich was born as Alexander Ivanovich Govorov in 1783 into the family of a deacon in Trubchevsk in Bryansk Oblast. From 1793–1803 he studied at Sevsk Theological Seminary. He then entered the St. Petersburg Teacher's Seminary, which in 1804 was renamed to Main Pedagogical Institute. Here he changed his surname to \"Galich\" (before that he had once changed it to \"Nikiforov\").\n\nIn 1808, he went to study at the University of Helmstedt and the University of Göttingen in Germany. In 1813, he defended his thesis at the Department of Philosophy of the St. Petersburg State Pedagogical Institute.\n\nFrom 1814–1818 Galich taught at the Petrischule, the Tsarskoe Selo Lyceum, and the Main Teacher's College. In 1819, the Main Teacher's College was reorganized as St. Petersburg University, and Galich was the first member of the Faculty of Philosophy.\n\nFrom 1818–1819, Galich published \"A History of Philosophical Systems\" in two volumes, compiled on the basis of German works by Sacher, Ast, Tenneman, and other German philosophers, and ending with an essay on the philosophical exposition of Schelling.\n\nShortly thereafter, charges were instituted against Galich and three other professors of impiety and revolutionary designs. In 1837, Galich, accused of freethinking, was laid off from St. Petersburg University. However, in the same year, he obtained a position in the Department of Archives.\n\nIn spite of his career problems, Galich continued to write and publish. His \"Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" (1845) was one of Russia's first philosophical reference works.\n\nMost significant and broad in scope were two of his later works: \"Universal Rights\" and the \"Philosophy of Human History\". However, ill fortune did not abandon Galich: as soon as he had completed these works, they were destroyed in an accidental fire. Unable to survive this loss, Galich became ill and died in 1848.\n"}
{"id": "29770591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29770591", "title": "Ambidextrous organization", "text": "Ambidextrous organization\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity refers to an organization's ability to be efficient in its management of today's business and also adaptable for coping with tomorrow's changing demand. Just as being ambidextrous means being able to use both the left and right hand equally, organizational ambidexterity requires the organizations to use both exploration and exploitation techniques to be successful.\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity was defined as an organization's ability to be aligned and efficient in its management of today's business demands as well as being adaptive to changes in the environment at the same time. This term of organizational ambidexterity was first used by Duncan, however, it was March that had been credited for developing and generating greater interest in this concept, especially in the late 20th and early 21st century. Ambidexterity in an organization is achieved by balancing exploration and exploitation, which allows the organization to be creative and adaptable, while also continuing to rely on more traditional, proven methods of business. Exploration includes things such as search, variation, risk taking, experimentation, flexibility, discovery or innovation, whereas exploitation includes such things as refinement, choice, production, efficiency, selection, implementation, and execution. Companies that focus only on exploration face the risk of wasting resources on ideas that may not prove useful or never be developed. On the other hand, companies that focus only on exploitation may accept status quo performance and products and fail to reach optimal levels of success.\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity is defined broadly, and several other terms are also highly related or similar to the construct of ambidextrous organization, including organizational learning, technological innovation, organizational adaptation, strategic management, and organizational design. Things such as reconciling exploitation and exploration, the simultaneity of induced and autonomous strategy processes, synchronizing incremental and discontinuous innovation, and balancing search and stability also tend to refer to the same underlying construct as ambidextrous organization.\n\nThere are studies on how structural and behavioral mechanisms affect organizational ambidexterity and studies on how ambidextrous organizational designs affect organizational ambidexterity. Whereas earlier studies on structural and behavioral mechanisms regarded the trade-offs between exploration and exploitation to be insurmountable, more recent research has paid attention to a range of organizational solutions to engender the existence of ambidexterity. One recent hot research topic in this area focused on the leadership characteristics that enable organizations to manage the contradictions that they face and achieve ambidexterity, which is the origin of the concept ‘ambidextrous leadership’. Several antecedents, outcomes of organizational ambidexterity as well as related moderators have also been identified in the studies on structural and behavioral mechanisms.\n\nThe studies on \"ambidextrous organizations\" take the organization as the unit of analysis and ambidextrous organizing is conceptualized as the simultaneous pursuit and combination of incremental and discontinuous innovation. \"Ambidextrous organizations\" are needed if the failure to balance exploitation and exploration is to be overcome: \"the ability to pursue simultaneously both incremental and discontinuous innovation results from hosting multiple contradictory structures, processes, and cultures\" (Tushman and O'Reilly, 1996: page 24). It has been empirically found that competence exploitation is negatively related to radical innovation performance whereas the effect for competence exploration is positive; competence exploration will be more valuable to the firm when it is matched with lower levels of competence exploitation, and vice versa. It has been theorized that the \"ambidextrous organization\" does not solve the tension between alignment and adaptability but allows for coping with the tension between different types of alignment in order to produce incremental and discontinuous innovation. \"Ambidextrous organizations\" do not alternate between exploration and exploitation, but they do both simultaneously. There's work that empirically investigates the processes of ambidextrous organizing by analyzing the implementation of the \"ambidextrous organizations\" concept in order to study whether there is evidence on how companies applying the concepts (suggested by \"ambidextrous organizations\" proponents) actually manage the processes of exploitation and exploration.\n\nOrganizational ambidexterity can be considered primarily from two angles. One is architectural or structural ambidexterity, which uses dual organizational structures and strategies to differentiate efforts towards exploitation and exploration. Structural ambidexterity includes dual parts, with one part focusing on exploitation and the other focusing on exploration. It's also known as the spatial separation of the dual strategies concepts outlined above. The other approach is contextual ambidexterity, which uses behavioral and social means to integrate exploitation and exploration at the organizational unit level. Contextual ambidexterity is a balanced type that takes a mid-level position between exploitation and exploration, also known as parallel structures or hybrid strategies.\n\nAlthough both angles are related to the theme of organizational ambidexterity, they strongly differ in the way how they are configured. There has always been a debate of which of the two different approaches is right. The dual type allows both discrete orientations and fit across dimensions at the unit level but creates a misfit between organizational units. Some researchers argued that inconsistent structures may lead to low performance. There are also some researchers trying to investigate the external and internal contingencies under which different configurations can be found. One factor would be the speed and type of technological change that organizations confront. On the other hand, the balanced type (i.e. contextual ambidexterity) is consistent with the systems approach of fit across multiple dimensions, but contradicts the opinion that organizational choice is discrete. In an environment where changes are slow, there will be sufficient time to react to the radical changes by constructing dual structures and strategies. However, in a high-competitive environment, balanced structures may be better prepared to deal with the constant need for alignment. In future studies, the different organizational ambidexterity configurations can be compared to find a better solution for dealing with the exploitation and exploration paradox.\n\nAmbidexterity is often considered a capacity or skill and can therefore be facilitated by either the organization as a whole or managers / CEOs. From the structural ambidexterity's view, organizations can solve the paradox by temporarily cycling through periods of exploitation and periods of exploration. From the other point of view (contextual ambidexterity), firms ought to address exploitation and exploration simultaneously and internally to achieve the goal ambidexterity. Contextual ambidexterity is more difficult to achieve than structural ambidexterity because managing two inconsistent alignments within an organization simultaneously is far more complex than managing one consistent strategy after another. Thus most studies on how to build ambidextrous organizations in literature focused on contextual ambidexterity rather than structural ambidexterity.\n\nThe role of leaders (or managers) is always highlighted towards building an ambidextrous organization. Several recommendations have been made to organizations on how to achieve contextual ambidexterity, including using of meta-routines and job-enrichment schemes, building trust with supervisees, being supportive, using complex behavioral repertoires, and the creation of a shared vision.\n\nIn addition, several characteristics of organizational culture are also emphasized on building an ambidextrous organization. Successful organizations should be able to balance the hard elements (discipline and stretch) and the soft elements (support and trust) in their organizational contexts. It was also suggested that establishing shared goals, developing a collective identity, creating a culture of support, and giving personal meaning to individuals’ contributions to the overall purpose of an organization all contributes to ambidexterity. A decentralized structure and a culture of excellence, recruitment and training are also important aspects of establishing an ambidextrous organization.\n\nAmbidexterity is beneficial to organizations in many aspects. As it is the ability to keep a balance between explorative and exploitative processes, the most core outcome of ambidexterity is innovation because innovation needs both explorative and exploitative aspects. Innovation is defined as \"the sequence of activities by which a new element is introduced into a social unit, with the intention of benefiting the unit, some part of it, or the wider society\" (West & Farr, 1990). The new element need not be entirely novel or unfamiliar to members of the unit, but it must involve some discernible change or challenge to the status quo (West & Farr, 1990). Most theoretical models of innovation differentiate at least two processes: idea generation and idea implementation (e.g., Amabile, 1988; West, 2002). The generation phase is closely linked to explorative activities while the implementation phase is highly linked to exploitative activities. An ambidextrous organization is able to pursue innovation (creating new products/services) while also maintaining itself through the continued use of proven techniques/products.\n\nIn addition, ambidexterity can promote some other positive organizational outcomes besides innovation. It has been proved in literature that the interaction between explorative and exploitative innovation strategies (in other words, ambidexterity) is positively related to sales growth rate, and imbalance between explorative and exploitative innovation strategies is negatively related to sales growth rate (He & Wong, 2004). Various organizations have been able to overcome organizational challenges and become more innovative because of ambidexterity. A study looking at 41 businesses found that ambidexterity was highly correlated with performance. Similarly, another study of 34 high-tech organizations showed that their ability to simultaneously execute exploration and exploitation was associated with higher performance (Chandrasekaran et al. 2012).\n\nCompanies such as Apple, General Radio, Nordstrom and British Airways have all had continued success throughout the years because of their capacity for ambidexterity. From 1981 to 1986, British Airways experienced increased profits and customer satisfaction. The top executives of British Airways credited the formation of a more ambidextrous culture and leadership with the company's improved performance.\n\nModerators exist in the relationship between organizational ambidexterity and organizational outcomes. Environmental dynamism and competitiveness moderate the relationship between exploitation/ exploration and performance (Levinthal & March, 1993; Lewin, Long & Carroll, 1999). Empirical studies also showed that pursuing exploratory innovation is more effective in dynamic environments, whereas pursuing exploitative innovation is more beneficial to a unit's financial performance in more competitive environments (Jansen, van den Bosch, & Volberda, 2006). Although they were not directly testing an ambidextrous orientation, results indicated a positive performance effect of simultaneously pursuing exploitative and exploratory innovation under high dynamic and competitive environments. The effects of exploitative, explorative and balanced corporate alignment activities on performance were compared under varying environmental conditions (Raisch & Hotz, 2008). The construct of \"environmental munificence\" was developed to reflect an organization's opportunities and dynamism (Zahra, 1993). They found that, although exploration was positively related to performance under high environmental munificence, a balanced orientation failed to significantly affect performance in times of low environmental munificence (Raisch & Hotz, 2008).\n\nMarket orientation was also proved to moderate the relationship between exploitation/ exploration and performance. Market orientation was defined as \"the capability to generate, disseminate, and respond to intelligence pertaining to current and future customers\" (Kohli & Jaworski, 1990). A longitudinal study by Kyriakopoulos and Moorman (2004) showed that market orientation positively moderates the impact of pursuing high levels of exploitative and exploratory marketing strategies on new product performance; however, firms that pursue an ambidextrous orientation without strong market orientation display a significant reduction in new product financial performance.\n\nAnother factor that may moderate ambidexterity's effect on performance is firm resources (Kyriakopoulos & Moorman, 2004). Firms with rich resources have the ability to exploit and explore simultaneously, whereas firms with less resources may not be able to afford such a complex strategy. Similarly, Lubatkin et al. stated that small firms \"lack the amount of slack resources and the kind of hierarchical administration systems that can help or impede larger firms in managing their contradictory knowledge processes and, thus, affect the attainment of ambidexterity\" (p. 647). This idea was supported by empirical evidence that small firms may benefit more from a one-sided orientation than from mixed strategies (Ebben & Johnson, 2005).\n\nBoundary conditions were also addressed on choosing between structural and contextual ambidexterity. For example, spatial separation was suggested as an appropriate solution for environments characterized by long periods of stability, disrupted by rare events of discontinuous change. Research also found that firms operating in dynamic competitive environments rely on contextual ambidexterity rather than developing spatially separated units (Jansen, van den Bosch, & Volberda, 2005).\n\nThe functional definition of ambidexterity was originally used to describe organizations, but recently this concept was extended to multiple organizational levels, including individuals, teams, and leaders. On the most general level, the concept of ambidexterity implies successfully managing the dichotomy of explorative variability creation and exploitative variability reduction.\n\nWhenever there are needs to be both explorative and exploitive, conflict occurs (Bledow, Frese, Anderson, Erez, & Farr, 2009). That's when ambidexterity is necessary. Actually, regulating the conflicting demands of innovation is not only a challenge for the upper echelon of an organization but also a phenomenon that spans all levels of an organization. Employees as individuals, collectives of employees such as work teams, and the organization as a whole all have to find strategies to deal with conflicting demands in order to succeed in innovation and adaption to changing markets. Some examples of strategies and tactics that could be implemented at all three levels of analysis were also listed out (Bledow et al., 2009). These examples are presented in Table 1, including a separation strategy (in the Separation column) or an integration strategy (in the last two columns).\n\nRecently the focus on organizational ambidexterity has become more concentrated on how leaders act ambidextrously to achieve organizational ambidexterity. Senior managers may be the key for facilitating the context and social base for ambidexterity. Noting that ambidextrous organizations require significant amounts of mobilization, coordination, and integration activities to maintain both exploitation and exploration, informal and social integration of the senior team as well as the cross-functional interfaces of the formal organization contribute to the success of organizational ambidexterity significantly (Jansen, Tempelaar, van den Bosch, & Volberda, 2009). A recent model of ambidexterity and leadership suggests that CEOs and top management teams (TMT) play an integral role in establishing ambidexterity in small-to-medium-sized organizations (Cao, Simsek, & Zhang, 2010). The model suggests TMTs are where processes such as information sharing and knowledge processing, which influence ambidexterity, are likely to occur. Furthermore, it is the CEO who has the ability to access the most valuable and diverse information needed to avoid separation of explorative and exploitative behaviors. The greater the interface between TMTs and CEOs in small-to-medium-sized organizations, the greater the amount of ambidexterity.\n\nThe concept of ambidexterity was first formally introduced into the leadership area by the Rosing, Frese and Bausch (2011) paper, holding the idea that leaders should be able to lead their team to match the complexity and the pace of innovation (Ancona, Goodman, Lawrence, & Tushman, 2001). Ambidextrous leadership was defined as the leaders’ ability to foster both explorative and exploitative behaviors in followers by increasing or reducing variance in their behavior and flexibly switching between those behaviors (Rosing et al., 2011).\n\nThe construct of ambidextrous leadership has also been linked to the combination of leadership styles (Jansen et al., 2009). Leaders who are transformational encourage \"out of the box thinking\", information sharing and question assumptions.Transformational leaders promote exploration and innovative thinking. Transactional leaders focus on making incremental improvements and making the best use of existing process. The transactional leadership style promotes exploitative behaviors. An ambidextrous leader is able to switch back and forth between transformation/exploration and transaction/exploitation as needed, in other words, being able to switch between different leadership styles at the appropriate time, in order to foster innovation and then implement plans. Ambidextrous leadership consists of three elements (1) opening leader behaviors to foster exploration, (2) closing leader behaviors to foster exploitation, (3) and the temporal flexibility to switch between both as the situation requires (Rosing et al., 2011). Opening leadership behaviors include: allowing for multiple ways to accomplish a task, experimentation and errors, whereas closing behaviors include; monitoring routines, sticking to plans and minimizing errors. The Rosing et al. (2011)'s model of leadership and innovation was shown in Figure 1.\n\nSome scholars as well as practitioners have argued that established companies simply lack the flexibility to explore new territories. One contributing reason could be the so-called success trap (i.e. the focus on their, historically successful, current business activities) (Walrave, Van Oorschot, & Romme, 2011). A possible solution for big companies is to adopt a venture capital model – funding exploratory expeditions but otherwise not interfering too much with their operations. Another suggestion is for the use of cross-functional teams to achieve breakthrough innovations. Still others have suggested that a company may be able to alternate between different organizational models, focusing on exploitation and exploration at different time periods. For example, in a study of biotechnology firms it is shown how an organization's management control system can be adjusted periodically to achieve this changing focus on exploitation and exploration. Researchers also debate if ambidexterity can be attained because exploration and exploitation tend to emerge from contradictory information and knowledge inputs and because success due to exploration/exploitation tends to be self-reinforcing leading to the use of the same methods in the future. An empirical study of ambidexterity in organizations (He & Wong, 2004) further cautions that very low levels of both exploration and exploitation are not sufficient to contribute to superior firm performance. High firm performance may however need to be sustained through continuous exploitation both on the market side, through business model innovation and technology innovation.\n\nAmbidexterity can also be hampered by employee desire to receive organizational rewards. If organizations base their evaluation and reward systems on the completion of routine tasks, employees will be more likely to conform to standardized procedures. To avoid hindering ambidexterity, organizations should be sure to reward innovative thinking as well as completion of routine tasks.\n\nDespite the controversy surrounding the possibility of organizational ambidexterity, it is likely to continue to be a highly researched concept in the future. Future research is likely to focus on the role of ambidextrous leaders, ambidextrous teams and the social context of organizational ambidexterity. (Rosing et al., 2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36255078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36255078", "title": "Ann C. Scales", "text": "Ann C. Scales\n\nAnn C. Scales (May 29, 1952 – June 24, 2012) was an American Lawyer, activist, and law professor at the University of Denver Sturm College of Law from 2003-2012 where she taught in Constitutional Law, Sexual Orientation and the Law, Civil Procedure and torts.\n\nShe was a founder of the legal field of feminist jurisprudence, and coined the term feminist jurisprudence in 1977.\n\nAnn Catherine Scales was born in Shawnee, Oklahoma. Her father James R. Scales was the President of Oklahoma Baptist University from 1961 to 1965. He went on to be President of Wake Forest University from 1968 to 1983. Her mother, Elizabeth Ann Randel Scales, had also been a professor and was very active in the Red Cross and in arranging events at these universities.\n\nScales received her B.A. from Wellesley College in History and Philosophy in 1974 and her J.D. in 1978 from Harvard Law School, where she served on Harvard Legal Aid and the Harvard Women's Law Association. She was a member of the committee that put together \"Celebration 25\", a party and conference held in 1978 to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the first women graduating from Harvard Law School. This project eventually turned into the Harvard Women's Law Journal, currently the Harvard Journal of Law & Gender.\n\nAnn Scales taught at the University of New Mexico Law School for 18 years. She was a visiting professor at the University of Iowa College of Law, Boston College Law School, the University of British Columbia Faulty of Law, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. At the time of her death, she was a professor at the University of Denver's Sturm College of Law. Ann Scales was among the founders of the field of feminist jurisprudence, and invented the term feminist jurisprudence in 1977 while planning a panel for Celebration 25.\n\nThroughout her career, Ann Scales practiced pro bono law in the fields of reproductive rights and GLBTI rights. She argued the case in which the New Mexico Supreme Court became the first high court of any state to hold that abortion funding is required by women's interest in equality. She also worked on the University of Colorado football gang rape case; the effort to bring a women's marathon to the Olympics; and R. v. Butler, a pornography case in which Canada's Supreme Court redefined obscenity based on the standard of harm it inflicts, particularly to women.\n\nAnn Scales was a former rodeo rider and was in part descended from Cherokee Native Americans. Some of her ancestors walked the Trail of Tears from North Carolina to Oklahoma.\n\nShe died on June 24, 2012 in a hospice in Denver, CO as a result of massive brain trauma after a fall down the stairs in her home earlier in the month.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "915972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915972", "title": "Aramaic New Testament", "text": "Aramaic New Testament\n\nThe Aramaic New Testament of the Bible exists in two versions: \n\nThe official Assyrian Church of the East (known by some as the Nestorian Church) does not recognise the new \"Assyrian Modern\" edition, and traditionally considers the New Testament of the Peshitta to be the original New Testament, and Aramaic to be its original language. This view was popularised in the West by the Assyrian Church of the East scholar George Lamsa, but is not supported by the majority of scholars, either of the Peshitta or the Greek New Testament.\n\nThe traditional New Testament of the Peshitta has 22 books, lacking the Second Epistle of John, the Third Epistle of John, the Second Epistle of Peter, the Epistle of Jude and the Book of Revelation, which are books of the Antilegomena. The text of Gospels also lacks the verses known as Jesus and the woman taken in adultery (John 7:53–8:11) and Luke 22:17–18. These missing books were reconstructed by the Syriacist John Gwynn in 1893 and 1897 from alternative manuscripts, and included them in the United Bible Societies edition of 1905. The 1997 modern Aramaic New Testament has all 27 books.\n\nMainstream and modern scholars have generally had a strong agreement that the New Testament was written in Greek and that an Aramaic source text was used for portions of the New Testament, especially the gospels. They acknowledge that many individual sayings of Jesus as found in the Greek Gospels may be translations from an Aramaic source referred to as \"Q\", but hold that the Gospels' text in its current form was composed in Greek, and so were the other New Testament writings. Scholars of all stripes have acknowledged the presence of scattered Aramaic expressions, written phonetically and then translated, in the Greek New Testament. Although it was frequently suggested that Q was a written source, it could have been a collection of oral sayings, usually referred to as the \"logia\". (See Luke 1:2,3).\n\nAn example of how mainstream scholars have dealt with Aramaic influences within an overall view of the Gospels' original Greek-language development may be found in Martin Hengel's recent synthesis of studies of the linguistic situation in Palestine during the time of Jesus and the Gospels:\nSince non-literary, simple Greek knowledge or competency in multiple languages was relatively widespread in Jewish Palestine including Galilee, and a Greek-speaking community had already developed in Jerusalem shortly after Easter, one can assume that this linguistic transformation [from \"the Aramaic native language of Jesus\" to \"the Greek Gospels\"] began very early. ... [M]issionaries, above all 'Hellenists' driven out of Jerusalem, soon preached their message in the Greek language. We find them in Damascus as early as 32 or 33. A certain percentage of Jesus' earliest followers were presumably bilingual and could therefore report, at least in simple Greek, what had been heard and seen. This probably applies to Cephas/Peter, Andrew, Philip or John. Mark, too, who was better educated in Jerusalem than the Galilean fishermen, belonged to this milieu. The great number of phonetically correct Aramaisms and his knowledge of the conditions in Jewish Palestine compel us to assume a Palestinian Jewish-Christian author. Also, the author's Aramaic native language is still discernible in the Marcan style.\n\nThe hypothesis of an Aramaic original for the New Testament holds that the original text of the New Testament was not written in Greek, as held by the majority of scholars, but in the Aramaic language, which was the language of Jesus and the Apostles.\n\nThe position of the Assyrian Church of the East is that the Syriac Peshitta (a Bible version which is written in a vernacular form of Aramaic), used in that church, is the original of the New Testament. For instance, the patriarch Shimun XXI Eshai declared in 1957:\nThe late Patriarch of the Church of the East, Dinkha IV (1976–2015), did not publicly pronounce that the Peshitta is the original New Testament. Variants of this view are held by some individuals who may argue for a lost Aramaic text preceding the Peshitta as the basis for the New Testament.\n\nThis view is to be distinguished from the view held by most historical critics, that the Greek New Testament (particularly the Gospel of Matthew and Gospel of Mark) may have had Aramaic source texts which are no longer extant.\n\nThe most noteworthy advocate of the \"Peshitta-original\" hypothesis in the West was George Lamsa of the Aramaic Bible Center. A tiny minority of more recent scholars are backers of the Peshitta-original theory today, whereas the overwhelming majority of scholars consider the Peshitta New Testament to be a translation from a Greek original. For instance the noted Assyriologist Sebastian Brock wrote:\n\nSome advocates of the \"Peshitta-original\" theory also use the term \"Aramaic primacy\", though this is not used in academic sources, and appears to be a recent neologism, as is the phrase \"Greek primacy\", used to characterize the consensus view. The expression \"Aramaic primacy\" was used by L. I. Levine, but only as a general expression used to denote the primacy of Aramaic over Hebrew and Greek in Jerusalem during the Second Temple period (i.e. roughly 200 BC - 70 AD). The earliest appearance of the phrase in print appears to be in David Bauscher.\n\nCharles Cutler Torrey, while teaching at Yale, wrote a series of books that presented detailed manuscripturial evidence supporting the Aramaic New Testament, starting with \"The Translations Made from the Original Aramaic Gospels\", and including the widely known \"Our Translated Gospels\".\n\nAdditional evidence for the Aramaic origin is presented by Edwin Abbott in his Diatessarica series.\n\nGeorge Lamsa's translation of the Peshitta New Testament from Syriac into English brought the claims for primacy of the Aramaic New Testament to the West. However, his translation is poorly regarded by most scholars in the field. The Old Syriac Texts, the Sinai palimpsest and the Curetonian Gospels, have also influenced scholars concerning original Aramaic passages. Diatessaronic texts such as the Liege Dutch Harmony, the Pepysian Gospel Harmony, Codex Fuldensis, The Persian Harmony, The Arabic Diatessaron, and the Commentary on the Diatessaron by Ephrem the Syrian have provided recent insights into Aramaic origins. The Coptic Gospel of Thomas and the various versions of the medieval Hebrew Gospel of Matthew also have provided clues to Aramaic foundations in the New Testament especially the gospels. Many 19th Century scholars (H. Holtzmann, Wendt, Jülicher, Wernle, von Soden, Wellhausen, Harnack, B. Weiss, Nicolardot, W. Allen, Montefiore, Plummer, and Stanton) theorized that portions of the gospels, especially Matthew, were derived from an Aramaic source normally referred to as Q.\n\nThe best evidence for at least one of the Greek books of the New Testament to have been translated out of the Aramaic, comes from a textual analysis of those attributed to the Apostle John. Their variation in writing style is so considerable, that it would preclude them having been written in Greek by the same author. St Dionysius of Alexandria lent support to this argument, when pointing out how John's style of writing differs so markedly between his Gospel and Revelation. He concluded that the sophisticated writer of the former could not have written the clumsy Greek of the latter. Thus, the only way for John to have been the author of Revelation is for it to have been penned by a translator. However, Dionysius himself left open the possibility that it was written in Greek \"by a holy and inspired writer\" other than John.\n\nPapias provides a very early source for the idea that the canonical Gospels were either based on some non-Greek written sources, or (in the case of Matthew) possibly \"composed\" in a non-Greek language. The relevant fragments of Papias' lost work \"An Exposition of the Sayings of the Lord\" (\"Logiōn kuriakōn exēgēsis\", \"c.\" 110–140) are preserved in quotations by Eusebius. In one fragment, Papias cites an older source who says, \"When Mark was the interpreter [\"hermēneutēs\", possibly \"translator\"] of Peter, he wrote down accurately everything that he recalled of the Lord's words and deeds.\" Papias' surviving comment about Matthew is more tantalizing, but equally cryptic: \"And so Matthew composed [or collected] the sayings [or record] in the Hebrew tongue, and each one interpreted [\"hēprormēneusen\", possibly \"translated\"] them to the best of his ability.\" A similar claim comes out more clearly in a text by Irenaeus, but this testimony is later than (and may be based on) Papias.\n\nEven if they do imply non-Greek originals, these accounts have been doubted, in part with an argument that the literary quality of the Greek of these books indicates that the Greek would be the original. This argument extends to the other books where the Church Fathers accepted Greek as the original without debate. The Greek New Testament's general agreement with the Septuagint is also counted as evidence by majority view scholars. Aramaic primacists point to quotations from the Hebrew (Masoretic) Old Testament in the Alexandrian text type that indicate at one point a non-Greek speaking audience was addressed (See , , 11:10; Mark 1:2; Luke 7:27; John 19:37; Acts 13:18; Romans 9:33, 11:35; 1 Corinthians 3:19; 1Peter 2:8). Aramaic primacists question why the New Testament would quote from the Hebrew Old Testament and not from the Septuagint if it was written in Greek originally. Quotes from the Hebrew Old Testament are present in Alexandrian texts that are thought to predate Jerome's use of the Hebrew Old Testament for the Vulgate.\n\nThere are also alternative explanations for the cases where Aramaic Primacists claim that the Aramaic seems to read better. One example (as stated above) is in the case of the \"camel through the eye of a needle.\" In Jewish and Christian literature we see the following:\n\nAramaic Primacists, most notably Lamsa, generally respond that these sources are late compared to the account in Q, as the Mishnah, the base document of the Babylonian Talmud was compiled in 200, where the Acts of Peter and Andrew is a 3rd-century work and therefore the original mistranslation of גמלא (\"gamlâ\") predates and is potentially the source of these subsequent paraphrases. The Aramaic word for camel can also mean \"rope\" thus saying \"it easier for a rope to go through the eye of a needle\".\n\nTranslations from Syriac to English include:\n\n\nThis list does not include adaptations of such as the \"Hebraic Roots Version\" by James Trimm (2001) which are adaptations from the JPS New Testament (translated directly from Greek into Hebrew), not the Peshitta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23028158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23028158", "title": "Ayn Rand: The Russian Radical", "text": "Ayn Rand: The Russian Radical\n\nAyn Rand: The Russian Radical is a 1995 book by Chris Matthew Sciabarra tracing the intellectual roots of 20th-century Russian-American novelist and philosopher Ayn Rand and the philosophy she developed, Objectivism.\n\nThe book is the second volume in a trilogy of books on dialectics and libertarianism. \"The Russian Radical\" explores Rand's college influences and intellectual roots—particularly the role of Rand's philosophy teacher, philosopher Nicholas Onufrievich Lossky—and argued that Rand's philosophical method was dialectical in nature.\n\nSciabarra was first introduced to Rand's ideas while in high school, but began serious study of her in relation to dialectical thinking while working on his doctoral degree at New York University. In 1984 he began a \"systematic study of the dialectical aspects of Rand's philosophy,\" research that eventually led to the book.\n\nSciabarra had difficulty securing a publisher. As he described it ten years later, many academic presses were uninterested in publishing a book about Rand, while commercial presses were put off by the scholarly nature of the content. The book was eventually published by the Pennsylvania State University Press in August 1995. It is the second volume in a three-book series by Sciabarra called \"Dialectics and Liberty\", which he conceived while working on his dissertation. On account of publishing delays, its predecessor, \"Marx, Hayek, and Utopia,\" came out that same month.\n\nIn his introduction, Sciabarra briefly describes the difficulties facing the Rand scholar, then provides a quick overview of dialectics. Part One, \"The Process of Becoming,\" examines Rand's intellectual development out of her Russian background. Chapter 1 describes the various currents in Russian philosophy during Rand's childhood and youth, including the views of the Slavophiles, of Vladimir Solovyov, of various literary figures of the Silver Age, and of Russian Marxists. Chapter 2 focuses on Lossky's teachings, which \"exhibited a Russian proclivity to synthesize opposites and resolve antagonisms. He rejected the dualistic obsession with dichotomies of rationalism or empiricism, idealism or materialism, knowledge or existence. These alternatives were, for him, partial and incomplete. Like other thinkers in Russian philosophy, however, Lossky achieved the ultimate integration through a mystical Absolute.\" According to Sciabarra, Rand would join Lossky in rejecting all of these dichotomies, but did not accept his appeal to religious faith. In Chapter 3 discusses Rand's education at the Stoiunin Gymnasium, at a high school in the Crimea, and at Leningrad State University, where she majored in history. Chapter 4 surveys Rand's maturation as a thinker after she emigrated to the United States in 1926, taking on such controversies as whether she was in a \"Nietzschean phase\" when she wrote her first novel, \"We the Living\".\n\nIn Part Two, \"The Revolt against Dualism,\" Sciabarra presents Rand's mature philosophical system, emphasizing its dialectical aspects. Chapter 5 offers a treatment of the Objectivist metaphysics, including Rand's emphatic opposition to the ideas of Immanuel Kant. Sciabarra says that Lossky was \"the chief Russian translator of Kant's works. He too had criticized Kant's contention that true being (things-in-themselves) transcends consciousness and remains forever unknowable.\" Chapter 6 surveys Objectivist epistemology, including Rand's views on perception, concepts, and free will; Sciabarra ties Rand's emphasis on the role of contextuality in concept formation to the importance of internal relations in dialectical thinking. In Chapter 7 Sciabarra takes on Rand's conception of the relations between reason and emotion, drawing attention to the psychological theories that she developed in collaboration with Nathaniel Branden. Chapter 8 brings together Rand's theories about the nature and function of art, and her critiques, subsequently elaborated by Leonard Peikoff, of rationalism and empiricism. Chapter 9 offers a lengthy examination of Rand's ethical theory, focusing on her reworking of egoism, her critique of altruism, and the relationship between her conception of morality and Aristotle's eudaimonism. Chapter 10 completes the survey with Rand's political philosophy, which Sciabarra identifies as a form of libertarianism. Sciabarra discusses the reciprocal relations between reason and freedom, and between faith and force; Rand's defense of individual rights; her distinctive \"nondualistic conception of government, one that is neither anarchistic nor statist in its orientation\"; and her defense of capitalism, which he contrasts with Marx's critique.\n\nPart Three of Sciabarra's book discusses the application of Rand's ideas to political, social and historical issues. In Chapter 11, he diagrams Rand's analysis of power relations, in which Level 3 (economic and political functioning), Level 2 (linguistic and ideological functioning) and Level 1 (individual psycho-epistemological and ethical functioning) are all interrelated. He connects Rand's insight that \"a leash is only a rope with a noose at both ends\" (\"The Fountainhead\") and her conception of \"the sanction of the victim\" (\"Atlas Shrugged\") with Hegel's analysis of the codependency between master and slave. Chapter 12, \"The Predatory State,\" traces Rand's account of the dynamics of the mixed economy, her analyses of racism and tribalism, and her rejection of both political conservatism and political liberalism. Chapter 13 is concerned with Rand's philosophy of history, which rejects Marxist materialism in favor of the view that \"a society's history is a logical unfolding of the philosophical premises it has internalized,\" He concludes with her vision of the rise of the New Intellectuals, who \"conquer dualism and reunite the prodigal sons of capitalism: the intellectual and the businessman\" and the ultimate emergence of an Objectivist society.\n\nIn 2013, Pennsylvania State University Press published an expanded second edition of the book, which included a new preface and three new appendices. The first appendix is a reprint of a 1999 essay, \"The Rand Transcript,\" first published in \"The Journal of Ayn Rand Studies\", which includes an examination of the actual transcript of Rand's coursework at Petrograd University. The second appendix is a reprint of a 2005 \"Journal of Ayn Rand Studies\" essay, \"The Rand Transcript, Revisited.\" The third appendix answers a critique of Sciabarra's historical work by Shoshana Milgram. The second edition also includes an expanded discussion of Rand's radical critique of U.S. foreign policy, \"The Welfare-Warfare State,\" now included in Chapter 12 of the book. The book also includes a much expanded index and bibliography.\n\nIn a review for \"The Freeman\", David Brown wrote, \"Much to my surprise the author of \"Ayn Rand: The Russian Radical\", a comprehensive new study of Rand's thought and its genesis in Russian culture, has persuaded me that something called 'dialectics' is integral to Ayn Rand's philosophic approach and crucial to its success. \"Russian Radical\" is a different kind of look at Ayn Rand, a full-fledged 'hermeneutic' on the contours, development, and interpretation of her thought.\" According to a review by Lester H. Hunt in \"Liberty\", \"It is indicative of the interest of this book that I have so far engaged in an argument with it instead of saying how good I think it is on the whole. Among other things, it is an excellent synthesis of the Objectivist literature, both the works of Rand and those of her immediate successors. Sciabarra's mastery of enormous amounts of material is almost literally incredible. He also manages to break entirely new ground on several different issues.\"\n\nIn her biography \"Goddess of the Market\", Jennifer Burns wrote, \"The first author to integrate Rand's life and thought was Chris Sciabarra […]. Though written without access to Rand's personal papers, Sciabarra's book employed original research and brought to light hitherto unknown information about Rand's educational background.\"\n\nA mixed review by James G. Lennox said, \"Its author has an encyclopedic familiarity with the writings of Ayn Rand and with virtually everyone who has advocated, commented on, or written critically about Objectivism. ... He is the first of her commentators to explore the intellectual milieu of Rand's early, formative years, providing a deeper appreciation for her occasional scathing remarks about Russian culture as she had experienced it. All of this material is discussed, and exhaustively referenced, in the interests of providing a comprehensive analysis of Objectivism, not merely as a philosophical system, but as a philosophical and cultural movement.\" However, Lennox questioned whether Ayn Rand had ever taken a philosophy course from Lossky, let alone been influenced by his own philosophical method, and he recommended against construing Rand's method of challenging dichotomies or \"false alternatives\" as dialectical. \n\n\"The Russian Radical\" received a negative review from John Ridpath, a director of the Ayn Rand Institute. Ridpath claimed that \"The Russian Radical\" was postmodern and deconstructionist in its overall orientation, that it was one of the \"worthless products\" of contemporary academia, and that on the whole it was \"preposterous in its thesis, destructive in its purpose, and tortuously numbing in its content.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27370532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27370532", "title": "Caribbean Philosophical Association", "text": "Caribbean Philosophical Association\n\nThe Caribbean Philosophical Association (CPA) is a philosophical organization founded in 2002 at the Center for Caribbean Thought at the University of the West Indies, in Mona, Jamaica. The founding members were George Belle, B. Anthony Bogues, Patrick Goodin, Lewis Gordon, Clevis Headley, Paget Henry, Nelson Maldonado-Torres, Charles Mills, and Supriya Nair. The association promotes the view that philosophy is the \"rigorous theoretical reflection about fundamental problems faced by humanity\", and that Caribbean philosophy in particular should be seen as \"a transdisciplinary form of interrogation informed by scholarly knowledges as well as by practices and artistic expressions that elucidate fundamental questions that emerge in contexts of 'discovery,' conquest, racial, gender, and sexual domination, genocide, dependency, and exploitation as well as freedom, emancipation, and decolonization.\"\n\nThe organization sponsors an annual meeting and offers prizes for work that furthers the decolonization and liberation of mankind. The CPA has awarded the \"Frantz Fanon Prize\" to Enrique Dussel, Walter Mignolo, Nigel Gibson and Berghahn Books. The Nicolas Guillen Lifetime Achievement Award has been given to Ngugi wa Thiong’o, Samuel R. Delany, George Lamming, Jamaica Kincaid, Hortense Spillers, and Conceição Evaristo.\n\n\"The CLR James Journal\", established in 1990, is the official publication of the Caribbean Philosophical Association, and is \"a peer-reviewed forum for the discussion of the work and legacy of Cyril Lionel Robert James, and the wider field of Caribbean ideas to which James was a major contributor.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12414832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12414832", "title": "Completely Fair Scheduler", "text": "Completely Fair Scheduler\n\nThe Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) is a process scheduler which was merged into the 2.6.23 (October 2007) release of the Linux kernel and is the default scheduler. It handles CPU resource allocation for executing processes, and aims to maximize overall CPU utilization while also maximizing interactive performance.\n\nCon Kolivas's work with scheduling, most significantly his implementation of \"fair scheduling\" named Rotating Staircase Deadline, inspired Ingo Molnár to develop his CFS, as a replacement for the earlier O(1) scheduler, crediting Kolivas in his announcement.\n\nIn contrast to the previous O(1) scheduler used in older Linux 2.6 kernels, the CFS scheduler implementation is not based on run queues. Instead, a red–black tree implements a \"timeline\" of future task execution. Additionally, the scheduler uses nanosecond granularity accounting, the atomic units by which an individual process' share of the CPU was allocated (thus making redundant the previous notion of timeslices). This precise knowledge also means that no specific heuristics are required to determine the interactivity of a process, for example.\n\nLike the old O(1) scheduler, CFS uses a concept called \"sleeper fairness\", which considers sleeping or waiting tasks equivalent to those on the runqueue. This means that interactive tasks which spend most of their time waiting for user input or other events get a comparable share of CPU time when they need it.\n\nThe data structure used for the scheduling algorithm is a red-black tree in which the nodes are scheduler-specific codice_1 structures. These are derived from the general codice_2 process descriptor, with added scheduler elements.\n\nThe nodes are indexed by processor \"\"execution time\" in nanoseconds.\n\nA \"maximum execution time\"\" is also calculated for each process. This time is based upon the idea that an \"ideal processor\" would equally share processing power amongst all processes. Thus, the \"maximum execution time\" is the time the process has been waiting to run, divided by the total number of processes, or in other words, the \"maximum execution time\" is the time the process would have expected to run on an \"ideal processor\".\n\nWhen the scheduler is invoked to run a new process, the operation of the scheduler is as follows:\n\nIf the process spends a lot of its time sleeping, then its spent time value is low and it automatically gets the priority boost when it finally needs it. Hence such tasks do not get less processor time than the tasks that are constantly running.\n\nCFS is an implementation of a well-studied, classic scheduling algorithm called weighted fair queuing.\n\nOriginally invented for packet networks, fair queuing had been previously applied to CPU scheduling under the name stride scheduling. However, CFS uses terminology different from that normally applied to fair queuing. \"Service error\" (the amount by which a process's obtained CPU share differs from its expected CPU share) is called \"wait_runtime\" in Linux's implementation, and \"queue virtual time\" (QVT) is called \"fair_clock\".\n\nThe fair queuing CFS scheduler has a scheduling complexity of O(log N), where N is the number of tasks in the runqueue. Choosing a task can be done in constant time, but reinserting a task after it has run requires O(log N) operations, because the runqueue is implemented as a red-black tree.\n\nCFS is the first implementation of a fair queuing process scheduler widely used in a general-purpose operating system.\n\nTechnically, the name \"Completely Fair Scheduler\" is not entirely correct, since the algorithm only guarantees the \"unfair\" level to be less than \"O\"(\"n\"), where \"n\" is the number of processes. There are more complicated algorithms which can give better bounds over the \"unfair\" levels (e.g. \"O\"(log \"n\")). \n\nThe Linux kernel received a patch for CFS in November 2010 for the 2.6.38 kernel that has made the scheduler \"fairer\" for use on desktops and workstations. Developed by Mike Galbraith using ideas suggested by Linus Torvalds, the patch implements a feature called autogrouping that \"significantly\" boosts interactive desktop performance. \nThe explanation of the basic algorithm implementation was included by Mike Galbraith in a post about the patch:\n\nThe primary issues solved by this are for multi-core as well as multi-cpu (SMP) systems experiencing increased interactive response times while performing other tasks that use many CPU-intensive threads in those tasks. A simple explanation is that, with this patch applied, one will be able to still watch a video, read email and perform other typical desktop activities without glitches or choppiness while, say, compiling the Linux kernel or encoding video.\n\nInitial patches for the autogroup feature tied grouping to a tty (terminal), but the eventually merged patch settled on an implementation that tied groups to sessions created via the codice_3 system call. The autogroup feature implements task group creation only for fair class tasks (that is, processes scheduled according to the default SCHED_OTHER policy, but not, for example, processes scheduled under realtime policies) and, as such, leaves the way open for enhancement. Even at this basic implementation this patch can make Linux on the desktop a reality for all those who have found desktop performance to be less than desired.\nAs Linus Torvalds put it:\n\n"}
{"id": "27334700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27334700", "title": "Conflation of Readings", "text": "Conflation of Readings\n\nConflation of Readings, intentional changes in the text made by the scribe, who used two or more manuscripts with two or more textual variants and created another textual form. The term is used in New Testament textual criticism.\n\nFenton Hort gave eight examples from Mark (6:33; 8:26; 9:38, 39) and Luke (9:10; 11:54; 12:18; 24:53) in which the Byzantine text-type had combined Alexandrian and Western readings. It was one of the three Hort's arguments that the Byzantine text is the youngest.\n\nOther textual critics gave more examples of conflation (Matthew 27:41, John 18:40, , and Romans 6:12).\n\nLuke 24:53\n\nMetzger gave as an example \n\n\n"}
{"id": "663902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663902", "title": "Consensus theory of truth", "text": "Consensus theory of truth\n\nA consensus theory of truth is the process of taking statements to be true simply because people generally agree upon them.\n\nAn ancient criterion of truth, the \"consensus gentium\" (Latin for \"agreement of the people\"), states \"that which is universal among men carries the weight of truth\" (Ferm, 64). A number of consensus theories of truth are based on variations of this principle. In some criteria the notion of universal consent is taken strictly, while others qualify the terms of consensus in various ways. There are versions of consensus theory in which the specific population weighing in on a given question, the proportion of the population required for consent, and the period of time needed to declare consensus vary from the classical norm.\n\nA \"descriptive theory\" is one that tells how things are, while a \"normative theory\" tells how things ought to be. Expressed in practical terms, a normative theory, more properly called a \"policy\", tells agents how they ought to act. A policy can be an absolute imperative, telling agents how they ought to act in any case, or it can be a contingent directive, telling agents how they ought to act \"if\" they want to achieve a particular goal. A policy is frequently stated in the form of a piece of advice called a \"heuristic\", a \"maxim\", a \"norm\", a \"rule\", a \"slogan\", and so on. Other names for a policy are a \"recommendation\" and a \"regulative principle\".\n\nA regulative ideal can be expressed in the form of a description, but what it describes is an ideal state of affairs, a condition of being that constitutes its aim, end, goal, intention, or objective. It is not the usual case for the actual case to be the ideal case, or else there would hardly be much call for a policy aimed at achieving an ideal.\n\nCorresponding to the distinction between actual conditions and ideal conditions there is a distinction between actual consensus and ideal consensus. A theory of truth founded on a notion of actual consensus is a very different thing from a theory of truth founded on a notion of ideal consensus. Moreover, an ideal consensus may be ideal in several different ways. The state of consensus may be ideal in its own nature, conceived in the matrix of actual experience by way of intellectual operations like abstraction, extrapolation, and limit formation. Or the conditions under which the consensus is conceived to be possible may be formulated as idealizations of actual conditions. A very common type of ideal consensus theory refers to a community that is an idealization of actual communities in one or more respects.\n\nIt is very difficult to find any philosopher of note who asserts a \"bare\", \"naive\", or \"pure\" consensus theory of truth, in other words, a treatment of truth that is based on actual consensus in an actual community without further qualification. One obvious critique is that not everyone agrees to consensus theory, implying that it may not be true by its own criteria. Another problem is defining how we know that consensus is achieved without falling prey to an infinite regress. Even if everyone agrees to a particular proposition, we may not know that it is true until everyone agrees that everyone agrees to it. Bare consensus theories are frequent topics of discussion, however, evidently because they serve the function of reference points for the discussion of alternative theories.\n\nIf consensus equals truth, then truth can be made by forcing or organizing a consensus, rather than being discovered through experiment or observation, or existing separately from consensus. The principles of mathematics also do not hold under consensus truth because mathematical propositions build on each other. If the consensus declared 2+2=5 it would render the practice of mathematics where 2+2=4 impossible.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "568895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568895", "title": "Culpability", "text": "Culpability\n\nCulpability, or being culpable, is a measure of the degree to which an agent, such as a person, can be held morally or legally responsible for action and inaction. Culpability marks the dividing line between moral evil, like murder, for which someone may be held legally responsible and a randomly occurring event, like earthquakes, for which no human can be held responsible. One formulation of the concept is as follows:\n\nCulpability descends from the Latin concept of fault (\"culpa\"). The concept of culpability is intimately tied up with notions of agency, freedom, and free will. All are commonly held to be necessary, but not sufficient, conditions for culpability.\n\nFrom a legal perspective, culpability describes the degree of one's \"blameworthiness\" in the commission of a crime or offense. Except for strict liability crimes, the type and severity of punishment often follow the degree of culpability. \"Culpability means, first and foremost, direct involvement in the wrongdoing, such as through participation or instruction\", as compared with responsibility merely arising from \"failure to supervise or to maintain adequate controls or ethical culture\".\n\nModern criminal codes in the United States usually make distinct four degrees of culpability.\n\nLegal definitions of culpability are:\n\nIn short:\n\nThe first two types of culpability are each a subset of the following. Thus if someone acts purposely, they also act knowingly. If someone acts knowingly, they also act recklessly.\n\nThe definitions of specific crimes refer to these degrees to establish the mens rea (mental state) necessary for a person to be guilty of a crime. The stricter the culpability requirements, the harder it is for the prosecution to prove its case.\n\nFor instance, the definition of first degree murder (again in PA) is \"A criminal homicide constitutes murder of the first degree when it is committed by an intentional killing.\" Thus to be guilty of murder in the first degree, one must have an explicit goal in one's mind to cause the death of another. On the other hand, reckless endangerment has a much broader requirement: \"A person commits a misdemeanor of the second degree if he recklessly engages in conduct which places or may place another person in danger of death or serious bodily injury.\" Thus to be guilty of this one only needs to be aware of a substantial risk he is putting others in danger of; it does not have to be one's explicit goal to put people in risk. (But, if one's goal \"is\" to put others in substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury, this is, of course, sufficient.)\n\nThere is one more type of culpability, and that is \"strict liability\". In strict liability crimes, the actor is responsible no matter what his mental state; if the result occurs, the actor is liable. An example is the felony murder rule: if the prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt that one commits a qualifying felony (see the article) during which death results, one is held strictly liable for murder and the prosecution does not have to prove any of the normal culpability requirements for murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "297724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297724", "title": "Experience", "text": "Experience\n\nExperience is the knowledge or mastery of an event or subject gained through involvement in or exposure to it. Terms in philosophy such as \"empirical knowledge\" or \"\"a posteriori\" knowledge\" are used to refer to knowledge based on experience. A person with considerable experience in a specific field can gain a reputation as an expert. The concept of experience generally refers to know-how or procedural knowledge, rather than propositional knowledge: on-the-job training rather than book-learning.\n\nThe interrogation of experience has a long term tradition in continental philosophy. Experience plays an important role in the philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard. The German term \"Erfahrung\", often translated into English as \"experience\", has a slightly different implication, connoting the coherency of life's experiences.\n\nCertain religious traditions (such as Buddhism, Surat Shabd Yoga, mysticism and Pentecostalism) and educational paradigms with, for example, the conditioning of military recruit-training (also known as \"boot camps\"), stress the experiential nature of human epistemology. This stands in contrast to alternatives: traditions of dogma, logic or reasoning. Participants in activities such as tourism, extreme sports and recreational drug-use also tend to stress the importance of experience.\n\nThe history of the word \"experience\" aligns it closely with the concept of experiment.\n\nThe word \"experience\" may refer, somewhat ambiguously, both to mentally unprocessed immediately perceived events as well as to the purported wisdom gained in subsequent reflection on those events or interpretation of them.\n\nSome wisdom-experience accumulates over a period of time,\nthough one can also experience (and gain general wisdom-experience from) a single specific momentary event.\n\nOne may also differentiate between (for example) physical, mental, emotional, spiritual, vicarious and virtual experience(s).\n\nPhysical experience occurs whenever an object or environment changes. In other words, physical experiences relate to observables. They need not involve modal properties nor mental experiences.\n\nMental experience involves the aspect of intellect and consciousness experienced as combinations of thought, perception, memory, emotion, will and imagination, including all unconscious cognitive processes. The term can refer, by implication, to a thought process. Mental experience and its relation to the physical brain form an area of philosophical debate: some identity theorists originally argued that the identity of brain and mental states held only for a few sensations. Most theorists, however, generalized the view to cover all mental experience.\n\nMathematicians can exemplify cumulative mental experience in the approaches and skills with which they work. Mathematical realism, like realism in general, holds that mathematical entities exist independently of the human mind. Thus humans do not invent mathematics, but rather discover and experience it, and any other intelligent beings in the universe would presumably do the same. This point of view regards only one sort of mathematics as discoverable; it sees triangles, right angles, and curves, for example, as real entities, not just the creations of the human mind. Some working mathematicians have espoused mathematical realism as they see themselves experiencing naturally occurring objects. Examples include Paul Erdős and Kurt Gödel. Gödel believed in an objective mathematical reality that could be perceived in a manner analogous to sense perception. Certain principles (for example: for any two objects, there is a collection of objects consisting of precisely those two objects) could be directly seen to be true, but some conjectures, like the continuum hypothesis, might prove undecidable just on the basis of such principles. Gödel suggested that quasi-empirical methodology such as experience could provide sufficient evidence to be able to reasonably assume such a conjecture. With experience, there are distinctions depending on what sort of existence one takes mathematical entities to have, and how we know about them.\n\nHumans can rationalize falling in (and out) of love as \"emotional experience\". Societies which lack institutional arranged marriages can call on emotional experience in individuals to influence mate-selection.\nThe concept of emotional experience also appears in the notion of empathy.\n\nNewberg and Newberg provide a view on spiritual experience.\n\nMystics can describe their visions as \"spiritual experiences\". However, psychology and neuropsychology may explain the same experiences in terms of altered states of consciousness, which may come about accidentally through (for example) very high fever, infections such as meningitis, sleep deprivation, fasting, oxygen deprivation, nitrogen narcosis (deep diving), psychosis, temporal-lobe epilepsy, or a traumatic accident. People can likewise achieve such experiences more deliberately through recognized mystical practices such as sensory deprivation or mind-control techniques, hypnosis, meditation, prayer, or mystical disciplines such as mantra meditation, yoga, Sufism, dream yoga, or surat shabda yoga. Some practices encourage spiritual experiences through the ingestion of psychoactive drugs such as alcohol and opiates, but more commonly with entheogenic plants and substances such as cannabis, \"salvia divinorum\", psilocybin mushrooms, peyote, DXM, ayahuasca, or \"datura\". Another way to induce spiritual experience through an altered state of consciousness involves psychoacoustics, binaural beats, or light-and-sound stimulation.\n\nGrowing up and living within a society can foster the development and observation of social experience.\n\nSocial experience provides individuals with the skills and habits necessary for participating within their own societies, as a society itself is formed through a plurality of shared experiences forming norms, customs, values, traditions, social roles, symbols and languages.\nExperience plays an important role in experiential groups.\n\nUsing computer simulations can enable a person or groups of persons to have virtual experiences in virtual reality.\nRole-playing games treat \"experience\" (and its acquisition) as an important, measurable, and valuable commodity. Many role-playing video games, for instance, feature units of measurement used to quantify or assist a player-character's progression through the game - called experience points or XP.\n\nSubjective experience can involve a state of individual subjectivity, perception on which one builds one's own state of reality; a reality based on one’s interaction with one's environment. The \"subjective\" \"experience\" depends on one’s individual ability to process data, to store and internalize it. For example: our senses collect data, which we then process according to biological programming (genetics), neurological network-relationships and other variables such as relativity etc., all of which affect our individual experience of any given situation in such a way as to render it subjective.\n\nSomeone able to recount an event they witnessed or took part in has \"first hand experience\". First hand experience of the \"you had to be there\" variety can seem especially valuable and privileged, but it often remains potentially subject to errors in sense-perception and in personal interpretation.\n\nSecond-hand experience can offer richer resources: recorded and/or summarised from first-hand observers or experiencers or from instruments, and potentially expressing multiple points of view.\n\nThird-hand experience, based on indirect and possibly unreliable rumour or hearsay, can (even given reliable accounts) potentially stray perilously close to blind honouring of authority.\n\nSome post-modernists suggest that the nature of human experiencing (quite apart from the details of the experienced surrounds) has undergone qualitative change during transition from the pre-modern through the modern to the post-modern.\n\nImmanuel Kant contrasted experience with reason:\n\nThese views of Kant are mirrored in the research of ideasthesia, which demonstrates that one can experience the world only if one has the appropriate concepts (i.e., the \"ideas\") about the objects that are being experienced.\n\nAmerican author Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote an essay entitled \"Experience\" (published in 1844), in which he asks readers to disregard emotions that could alienate them from the divine; it provides a somewhat pessimistic representation of the transcendentalism associated with Emerson.\n\n"}
{"id": "34803718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34803718", "title": "Francesco Maria Zanotti", "text": "Francesco Maria Zanotti\n\nFrancesco Maria Zanotti Cavazzoni (Bologna, 6 January 1692 – Bologna, 25 December 1777) was an Italian philosopher and writer. Besides being a writer, he was also a commentator on works of art. He was considered an authoritative source on many topics.\n\nHe was the son of Giampietro Zanotti, and a pupil of Eustachio Manfredi. In 1718 he became professor of philosophy at the University of Bologna, and in 1723 he was appointed as secretary of Luigi Ferdinando Marsigli. Initially a Cartesian, he became a follower of Newton. In 1728 Francesco Algarotti experimented with light in his lab, replicating the prism and spectrum experiments of Isaac Newton. In 1741 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nZanotti's 1741 essay on the 'attractive force of ideas' defended a view of the association of ideas influenced by Newtonian physics. In 1754 Zanotti criticised Pierre-Louis Maupertuis for his views on Stoicism and Christianity, and was drawn into controversy about Stoicism with the Dominican professor Casto Innocente Ansaldi.\n\nIn 1766 he became president of Institute of Science in Bologna. In 1775 Benjamin Wilson (painter) began a correspondence with Zanotti on phosphor.\n\nHis brother, Giampietro Cavazzoni Zanotti was a Writer, painter, and art historian; Eustachio Zanotti was a famous astronomer and hydraulic engineer.\n"}
{"id": "33561655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33561655", "title": "Francis Saviour Farrugia", "text": "Francis Saviour Farrugia\n\nFrancis Saviour Farrugia (18th century) was a minor Maltese philosopher, doctor of law, and legislator. He specialised in jurisprudence (the philosophy of law).\n\nUnfortunately it is yet not known in what year Farrugia was born or died. Nor from which town or city in Malta he hailed.\n\nAs an academic and intellectual, Farrugia was held in very high regard by his peers. This was particularly so with the Grand Master of the Knights Hospitallers, Emmanuel de Rohan-Polduc, who had full confidence in his erudition and expertise.\n\nAt some time or other, Farrugia was a judge in the courts of appeal, a magistrate at the (\"Clistania\") prisons, a magistrate of arms, a Councillor of the Supreme Tribunal for Justice, and assessor of the Maritime Consulate. These offices attest to the esteem he enjoyed and the favour with which he was bestowed by the government of the Knights Hospitallers.\n\nUndoubtedly, Farrugia was a staunch traditionalist. This may be clearly seen in his only extant philosophical work, \"Discorsi Accademici\" (1775), in which, amongst other matters, he justifies and defends the use of torture, in the investigative and compilatory phase of a judicial case as much as a penalty. Though he seems to have taken note of the advances made in jurisprudence – especially that by Cesare Beccaria in his 1764 work \"On Crimes and Punishment\" – Farrugia evidently did not agree with them. Not so Grand Master Emmanuel de Rohan-Polduc, who, in 1784, was one of the first European princes to abolish the penalty of torture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248457", "title": "Free Beer", "text": "Free Beer\n\nFree Beer, originally known as Vores øl - An open source beer (Danish for: \"Our Beer\"), is the first brand of beer with an \"open\"/\"free\" brand and recipe. The recipe and trademark elements are published under the Creative Commons CC BY-SA license.\n\nThe beer was created in 2004 by students at the IT University in Copenhagen together with artist collective Superflex, to illustrate how concepts of the FOSS movement might be applied outside the digital world. The \"Free Beer\" concept illustrates also the connection between the long tradition of freely sharing cooking recipes with the FOSS movement, which tries to establish this sharing tradition also for the \"recipes\" of software, the source code. The \"Free beer\" concept received an overall positive reception from international press and media for the political message, was presented on many exhibitions and conferences, and inspired many breweries in adopting the concept.\n\nIn December 2004 a group of IT University of Copenhagen students together with Superflex brewed a 100-liter batch of a dark heavy beer in their school's cafeteria. The group labeled the beer \"Vores øl\" (Danish for: \"Our Beer\"), after a 1994 Carlsberg beer advertisement slogan. A website was created to promote the project and the beer's recipe and label designs were published under an open source Creative Commons license, specifically the CC-BY-SA 2.5 license. Unlike software, cooking recipes aren't copyrightable, so the share-alike/copyleft licensing approach is legally questionable and untested in court.\nAfter the publication the project received an overall positive reception from international press and media for the political message.\n\nThe developers of the beer stated that the beer was primarily a medium for the message of \"dogmatic notions of copyright and intellectual property that are dominating our culture\", and admitted that the group had only limited experience in beer production and was not made up of beer gurus.\nThe addition of the non-traditional beer ingredient Guaraná was also partly inspired politically by a previously in 2003 initiated Superflex project, \"Guaraná Power\", which focussed on the support of Brazilian guaraná farmers with Fair trade.\n\nAfter the first \"Vores Øl\" brewing of the open-source beer concept, Superflex continued to develop the concept under the name \"Free Beer\". A new colorful, unusual \"Free Beer\" artwork should create associations with the \"60's [artistic] liberation\" and underline the freedom aspect of the concept. The later name \"Free Beer\" is a play on Richard Stallman's common remark that free software is \"free as in speech, not free as in beer\", who suggested also the creation of \"Free software beer\" instead of an \"open source beer\".\n\nWhile the first \"Vores øl\" recipe draw some technical criticism, the recipe was continuously updated and identified shortcomings got fixed. Originally, the homebrewing community complaint the quality of the process and ingredient description. Remarks were that it was not stated how much water to use in the mash, what type of yeast was to be used, the style of beer being produced (other than being dark and heavy), whether or not any hops were being added for aroma, fermentation temperature, or how the beer was supposed to taste. Making reference to the technical problems of when software instructions (\"source code\") cannot be made into a functioning program, it was mentioned that if this recipe were source code, it would not compile. Because of the underlying theme of the group's message, the correction and development of this recipe is actively encouraged (in software terminology \"bug fixing and patches\").\n\nDue to the availability of the recipe and the many Free Beer brewings of breweries and individuals worldwide over the course of years, the recipe was updated several times. Later major Free Beer recipe iterations (v3.0 and 4.0) were also developed in collaboration with a local Danish and experienced brewery, Skands in Brøndby. As previous recipe shortcomings were corrected, for instance the amount of sugar was decreased by 90%, the quality of the beer improved significantly. The recipe's version, which has now reached 6.0 in 2017, illustrates the community's continuous collaborative improvement progress, made possible by the \"open source\" nature of Free Beer.\n\nUnder its free license, this free beer encourages others to tweak the recipe and redistribute it. Commercial or amateur brewers are able to reuse the recipe. Known derivatives include:\n\nOthers took the political idea of an \"open/free beer\" (not the \"Free Beer\" recipe and label), opened their own beer recipes and/or artwork, often under free licenses:\n\n\nSince its first presentation, the \"Free Beer\" concept was often reported by international printed and online media, and also discussed in specialist books regarding copyright.\n\nThe \"Free Beer\" project was also well received by the FOSS and open content movement, for instance by Richard Stallman, Cory Doctorow, and Lawrence Lessig. It was presented and sold on several technology conferences and meetings, for instance the \"Isummit 2008\" and the RMLL 2011, 2012, and 2014. The FSCONS 2008 resulted also in a CC-BY-SA licensed Ebook with the \"Free Beer\" artwork and title.\nFree Beer was shown also in the context of several art exhibitions and museums, for instance the Art Basel Miami Beach 2006, the Van Abbemuseum, Netherlands 2007 or the Taipei Biennial 2010 (sponsored by TTL). \"Free Beer\" was also used in the context of anti-copyright activities and movements, illustrating the advantage of open knowledge for the society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10504258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10504258", "title": "Free union", "text": "Free union\n\nA free union is a romantic union between two or more persons without legal or religious recognition or regulation.\n\nThe term has been used since the late 19th century to describe a relationship into which all parties enter, remain, and depart freely. The free union is an alternative to, or rejection or criticism of marriage, viewing it as a form of slavery and human ownership, particularly for women. According to this concept, the free union of adults is a legitimate relationship that should be respected. A free union is made between two individuals, but each individual may have several unions of their own.\n\nMuch of the contemporary tradition of free union under natural law or common law comes from anarchist rejection of marriage, seeking non-interference of either church or state in human relations.\n\nLeaving behind what was seen as law imposed by man in favor of natural law began during the late Enlightenment, when many sought to rethink the laws of property, family, and the status of women. Utopian socialist Robert Owen (1771–1858), who decried marriage as principally linked to the principle of ownership, offers a foretaste of the free union by use of the term \"marriage contract in front of nature.\" Philosopher and feminist Mary Wollstonecraft (1759–1797) stated, \"Marriage is an affirmation of the supremacy of man over woman [...] if I love a man, I want to love him while keeping my freedom.\" In the 1882, Élisée Reclus initiated the Anti-Marriage Movement, in accordance with which he and his partner allowed their two daughters to marry without any civil or religious ceremony, despite public and legal condemnation. Reclus had four partners throughout his lifetime, each with a different social contract.\nIn more modern times, free unions were common among members of the Spanish anarchist CNT political party during the popular revolution that ran alongside the Spanish Civil War. The couple desiring contractual validation of their relationship would simple go to the Party Headquarters and request the forms, which would be destroyed if the relationship were to not work out. The couple however, were strongly encouraged to make it work, as separation created administrative work for the party.\n\nAdditionally, many leading 20th Century intellectuals, including James Joyce, Pablo Picasso and their partners, and Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir never chose to marry, or delayed it until the end of life for legal reasons. De Beauvoir said of the institution, \"When we abolish the slavery of half of humanity, together with the whole system of hypocrisy that it implies, then the 'division' of humanity will reveal its genuine significance and the human couple will find its true form.\"\n\nIn French law, the \"union libre\" is an agreement between adults which grants rights between parents and potential children, but holds no obligation of sexual fidelity, nor does it grant reciprocal duties and rights between partners.\n\nA free union can be between individuals of any gender, and an individual may have several concurrently, therefore making free union an option for LGBTQ or polyamorous relationships, as well as heterosexual and/or monogamous ones that do not wish to enter the contract of marriage for historical, social, or financial reasons.\n\nUnited States law has no exact legal equivalent of a free union, although comparisons are often made to common law marriage. In the United States, partners wishing to have legal rights without entering into a marriage contract may choose to complete documents such as a healthcare proxy, domestic partnership agreement, will, and power of attorney. Members of a free union may refer to each other as partners, spouses, or any other title, but may find themselves subject to the laws of common law marriage if they consistently refer to themselves as husband and wife according to their local jurisdiction.\n\nAccording to Catholicism, the expression \"free union\" includes situations such as concubinage, rejection of marriage as such, or inability to make long-term commitments. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, being in a \"free union\" is a grave offense against the dignity of marriage, which it sees as a Sacrament. However, proponents maintain that the free union acts as a public recognition of a relationship without the obligations of church or state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31171702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31171702", "title": "Friedrich Feuerbach", "text": "Friedrich Feuerbach\n\nFriedrich Heinrich Feuerbach (29 September 1806 – 24 January 1880) was a German philologist and philosopher. In the 1840s he played an important role disseminating materialist and atheist philosophy.\n\nFriedrich Feuerbach was born on 29 September 1806 in Munich. He was the youngest son of the distinguished jurist Paul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach (1775–1833) and uncle of painter Anselm Feuerbach (1829–1880). His older brothers were all distinguished scholars. In 1826 he began his studies at the university of Erlangen. At first he studied theology, then history and finally philology and philosophy, specializing in Sanskrit literature. His supervisor was Friedrich Rückert. At Erlangen he was a member of a liberal nationalist student fraternity. In 1831, shortly after graduating, he went to Paris to work with the noted philologists and linguists Chézy, Bournouf and Remusat. France had recently experienced the July Revolution, and Friedrich met with some of the French utopian socialists of the time (e.g., Pierre Leroux). He also seems to have travelled to Switzerland, where he met the radical followers of Wilhelm Weitling; some of them subsequently studied his writings on religion. There is no evidence, however, that Friedrich Feuerbach himself ever participated in any revolutionary association (nor would this have been in character with his diffident nature).\n\nOn his return to Germany Feuerbach did not seek a profession but instead took rented rooms in Nuremberg and lived on a small state pension. He lived that way for most of his life. Friedrich Feuerbach published several translations from Sanskrit, Spanish, Italian and French. In the 1830s he was associated with the Young German movement in literature; in the early 1840s he contributed to a number of Young Hegelian magazines. Friedrich Freuerbach is described as extremely shy and withdrawn. His brother Ludwig described him as utterly undemanding. The suicide attempt of his older brother Karl, the mathematician, who had been arrested for belonging to a liberal student fraternity in 1824, seems to have greatly affected Friedrich. He was with Karl during his battle with mental illness and when he died prematurely in 1834. The physician Dr. Theodor Spoerri, a family friend, thought he suffered from \"heaviness of the blood\" (depression). He also thought that the \"genius\" of the talented Feuerbach family was most concentrated in Friedrich, the least-known brother. The philosopher Georg Friedrich Daumer was one of his few occasional visitors. The liberal theologian Johann Heinrich Wichern also acknowledged his influence.\n\nFriedrich Feuerbach was a qualified Orientalist with several publications. However, under the influence of his brother Ludwig, he turned to philosophy. He expounded a critique of religion that was heavily indebted to his brother's. He professed \"to preach what he taught.\" Friedrich often actively assisted Ludwig in editing his manuscripts. In spite of his atheism, Friedrich seems to have sympathized with a local liberal Protestant 'free faith' group. He died in Nuremberg on 24 January 1880.\n\nFriedrich Feuerbach shared his brother Ludwig's materialistic humanism. However, he focused less on his brother's theories of the origin of religious alienation and more on the practical implications of religion. Religion requires of the believer \"a perpetual sacrifice of his autonomous thinking.\" The desire for happiness is the most powerful human drive, but it can be fulfilled only if (a) human beings know their essential nature (\"Wesen\") and (b) they love it. Christianity interferes with the first by replacing science with superstition; it hinders the second by portraying human beings as hopelessly weak and dependent on the will of an almighty God. It is the task of the State, through education and enlightened laws, to provide the material conditions of happiness. To do this, the State must emancipate itself from the influence of the Church. Although Church and State seem symbiotic, the priesthood merely a spiritual police force to complement the secular, in essence Church and State are in conflict: The essence and instrument of the State is the law, but the Church demands of believers obedience to the absolute will of God. As law is in conflict with arbitrary will, so the role of citizen is in conflict with that of believer. So the State must become secular, although Feuerbach acknowledges it will be difficult to remove religion from the minds of the people. The means to social reform is through education. Friedrich Feuebach's political ideal may be described as a kind of utopian socialism: a benevolent secular State that provides people with a scientific education, organises conditions of life rationally and encourages mutual love and assistance.\n\nAlthough Friedrich Feurbach humbly thought of himself as a mere disseminator of his brother Ludwig's ideas, there were differences between them. Ludwig's distinctive analysis of the concept of God as alienated 'species being' played little role in Friedrich's writings; Friedrich focused on the nefarious implications of God as absolute arbitrary willpower. The note of social radicalism of the professed 'communist' Ludwig was largely absent from Friedrich, who never clarified whether the secular state he envisioned presiding over a society based on mutual aid, could be established by the existing government by enlightened reform from above, or required a more radical change of system. Another difference concerns the role Friedrich Feuerbach assigns to the secular State in establishing conditions of universal happiness and enlightenment about religion; Ludwig Feuerbach places much less emphasis on the state and seems rather more hostile to it.\n\n\"No salvation outside of humanity! These words contain the whole of the religion of the future.\"\n\n\"Not irreligion, not unbelief in the dogmas of the religious communities into which people happen to be born, no! \"lack of love\" and \"ignorance\" are the two main sources of all earthly calamities.\"\n\n\"Love of humanity … belongs undeniably to the consitions of human welfare; but if it consists in mutual assistance in the striving for happiness and wellbeing, and if this happiness and wellbeing consist above all – as is likewise undeniable – in the satisfaction of our inborn natural drives and the development of our natural powers … [then] the most fertile soil for love of humanity will evidently not be the belief that human nature is thoroughly degenerate and worthless, but rather in the view according to which we regard it [viz., human nature] as the essentially and generally acceptable foundation and condition of all our being, feeling, thinking and striving…\"\n\n\n\"Meyers Konversations-Lexikon.\" 4th edition, vol. 6, Bibliographisches Institut, Leipzig, 1885–1892, p. 203. Online at: http://www.retrobibliothek.de/retrobib/seite.html?id=105645.\n\nSchuffenhauer, W. (ed), 'Ludwig Feuerbach stellt des Bruders Schrift \"Gedanken und Thatsachen\", 1862, vor.' ('Ludwig Feuerbach introduces his brother's work \"Thoughts and Facts\", 1862.' In: Braun, H.J., H.M. Sass, W. Schuffenhauer and F. Tomasoni (ed's), \"Ludwig Feuerbach und die Philosophie der Zukunft.\" Berlin, 1990, pp. 763–785. \nOnline at: http://www.ludwig-feuerbach.de/lf_frf.htm.\n\nRadbruch, G., 'Die Feuerbachs. Eine geistige Dynastie.' In: \"Gestalten und Gedanken. Acht Studien.\" Leipzig 19442, p. 175 f.\n\nSpoerri, Th., \"Genie und Krankheit. Eine psychopathologische Untersuchung der Familie Feuerbach.\" Basel/NewYork, 1952, pp. 73–76.\n\nKantzenbach, F.W., 'Im Schatten des Größeren. Friedrich Feuerbach, Bruder und Gesinnungsgefährte Ludwig Feuerbachs.' In: \"Mitteilungen des Vereins für Geschichte der Stadt Nürnberg,\" vol. 57. Nuremberg, 1970, pp. 281–306.\n"}
{"id": "179109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179109", "title": "Friedrich Schleiermacher", "text": "Friedrich Schleiermacher\n\nFriedrich Daniel Ernst Schleiermacher (; November 21, 1768 – February 12, 1834) was a German theologian, philosopher, and biblical scholar known for his attempt to reconcile the criticisms of the Enlightenment with traditional Protestant Christianity. He also became influential in the evolution of higher criticism, and his work forms part of the foundation of the modern field of hermeneutics. Because of his profound effect on subsequent Christian thought, he is often called the \"Father of Modern Liberal Theology\" and is considered an early leader in liberal Christianity. The neo-orthodoxy movement of the twentieth century, typically (though not without challenge) seen to be spearheaded by Karl Barth, was in many ways an attempt to challenge his influence.\n\nBorn in Breslau in the Prussian Silesia as the grandson of Daniel Schleiermacher, a pastor at one time associated with the Zionites, and the son of Gottlieb Schleiermacher, a Reformed Church chaplain in the Prussian army, Schleiermacher started his formal education in a Moravian school at Niesky in Upper Lusatia, and at Barby near Magdeburg. However, pietistic Moravian theology failed to satisfy his increasing doubts, and his father reluctantly gave him permission to enter the University of Halle, which had already abandoned pietism and adopted the rationalist spirit of Christian Wolff and Johann Salomo Semler. As a theology student Schleiermacher pursued an independent course of reading and neglected the study of the Old Testament and of Oriental languages. However, he did attend the lectures of Semler, where he became acquainted with the techniques of historical criticism of the New Testament, and of Johann Augustus Eberhard, from whom he acquired a love of the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle. At the same time he studied the writings of Immanuel Kant and Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi, and began to apply ideas from the Greek philosophers to a reconstruction of Kant's system.\n\nSchleiermacher developed a deep-rooted skepticism as a student, and soon he rejected orthodox Christianity.\n\nBrian Gerrish, a scholar of the works of Schleiermacher, writes:\nIn a letter to his father, Schleiermacher drops the mild hint that his teachers fail to deal with those widespread doubts that trouble so many young people of the present day. His father misses the hint. He has himself read some of the skeptical literature, he says, and can assure Schleiermacher that it is not worth wasting time on. For six whole months there is no further word from his son. Then comes the bombshell. In a moving letter of 21 January 1787, Schleiermacher admits that the doubts alluded to are his own. His father has said that faith is the \"regalia of the Godhead,\" that is, God's royal due.\nSchleiermacher confessed: \"Faith is the regalia of the Godhead, you say. Alas! dearest father, if you believe that without this faith no one can attain to salvation in the next world, nor to tranquility in this — and such, I know, is your belief — oh! then pray to God to grant it to me, for to me it is now lost. I cannot believe that he who called himself the Son of Man was the true, eternal God; I cannot believe that his death was a vicarious atonement.\"\n\nAt the completion of his course at Halle, Schleiermacher became the private tutor to the family of Friedrich Alexander Burggraf und Graf zu Dohna-Schlobitten (1741–1810), developing in a cultivated and aristocratic household his deep love of family and social life. Two years later, in 1796, he became chaplain to the Charité Hospital in Berlin. Lacking scope for the development of his preaching skills, he sought mental and spiritual satisfaction in the city's cultivated society and in intensive philosophical studies, beginning to construct the framework of his philosophical and religious system. Here Schleiermacher became acquainted with art, literature, science and general culture. He was strongly influenced by German Romanticism, as represented by his friend Karl Wilhelm Friedrich von Schlegel. This interest is borne out by his \"Confidential Letters on Schlegel's Lucinde\", as well as by his seven-year relationship (1798–1805) with Eleonore Christiane Grunow (née Krüger) (1769/1770–1837), wife of Berlin clergyman August Christian Wilhelm Grunow (1764–1831).\n\nThough his ultimate principles remained unchanged, he placed more emphasis on human emotion and the imagination. Meanwhile, he studied Spinoza and Plato, both of whom were important influences. He became more indebted to Kant, though they differed on fundamental points. He sympathised with some of Jacobi's positions, and took some ideas from Fichte and Schelling. The literary product of this period of rapid development was his influential book, \"Reden über die Religion\" (\"On Religion: Speeches to Its Cultured Despisers\") and his \"new year's gift\" to the new century, the \"Monologen\" (\"Soliloquies\").\n\nIn the first book Schleiermacher gave religion an unchanging place among the divine mysteries of human nature, distinguished it from what he regarded as current caricatures of religion, and described the perennial forms of its manifestation. This established the programme of his subsequent theological system. In the \"Monologen\" he revealed his ethical manifesto, in which he proclaimed his ideas on the freedom and independence of the spirit, and on the relationship of the mind to the sensual world, and sketched his ideal of the future of the individual and of society.\n\nFrom 1802 to 1804, Schleiermacher served as a pastor in the Pomeranian town of Stolp. He relieved Friedrich Schlegel entirely of his nominal responsibility for the translation of Plato, which they had together undertaken (vols. 1–5, 1804–1810; vol. 6, Repub. 1828). Another work, \"Grundlinien einer Kritik der bisherigen Sittenlehre\" [Outlines of a Critique of the Doctrines of Morality to date] (1803), the first of his strictly critical and philosophical productions, occupied him; it is a criticism of all previous moral systems, including those of Kant and Fichte — Plato's and Spinoza's find most favour. It contends that the tests of the soundness of a moral system are the completeness of its view of the laws and ends of human life as a whole and the harmonious arrangement of its subject-matter under one fundamental principle. Although it is almost exclusively critical and negative, the book announces Schleiermacher's later view of moral science, attaching prime importance to a \"Güterlehre\", or doctrine of the ends to be obtained by moral action. The obscurity of the book's style and its negative tone prevented immediate success.\n\nIn 1804, Schleiermacher moved as university preacher and professor of theology to the University of Halle, where he remained until 1807, quickly obtaining a reputation as professor and preacher; he exercised a powerful influence in spite of contradictory charges which accused him of atheism, Spinozism and pietism. In this period, he began his lectures on hermeneutics (1805–1833) and he also wrote his dialogue the \"Weihnachtsfeier\" (\"Christmas Eve: Dialogue on the Incarnation\", 1806), which represents a midway point between his \"Speeches\" and his great dogmatic work, \"Der christliche Glaube\" (\"The Christian Faith\"); the speeches represent phases of his growing appreciation of Christianity as well as the conflicting elements of the theology of the period. After the Battle of Jena he returned to Berlin (1807), was soon appointed pastor of the Trinity Church, and on May 18, 1809 he married Henriette von Willich (née von Mühlenfels) (1788–1840), the widow of his friend Johann Ehrenfried Theodor von Willich (1777–1807).\n\nAt the foundation of the University of Berlin (1810), in which he took a prominent part, Schleiermacher obtained a theological chair, and soon became secretary to the Prussian Academy of Sciences. He took a prominent part in the reorganization of the Prussian church, and became the most powerful advocate of the union of the Lutheran and Reformed divisions of German Protestantism, paving the way for the Prussian Union of Churches (1817). The twenty-four years of his professional career in Berlin began with his short outline of theological study (\"Kurze Darstellung des theologischen Studiums\", 1811), in which he sought to do for theology what he had done for religion in his \"Speeches\".\n\nWhile he preached every Sunday, Schleiermacher also gradually took up in his lectures in the university almost every branch of theology and philosophy—New Testament exegesis, introduction to and interpretation of the New Testament, ethics (both philosophic and Christian), dogmatic and practical theology, church history, history of philosophy, psychology, dialectics (logic and metaphysics), politics, pedagogy, translation and aesthetics.\n\nIn politics Schleiermacher supported liberty and progress, and in the period of reaction which followed the overthrow of Napoleon he was charged by the Prussian government with \"demagogic agitation\" in conjunction with the patriot Ernst Moritz Arndt.\n\nAt the same time Schleiermacher prepared his chief theological work \"Der christliche Glaube nach den Grundsätzen der evangelischen Kirche\" (1821–1822; 2nd ed., greatly altered, 1830–1831; 6th ed., 1884). The fundamental principle is that religious feeling, the sense of absolute dependence on God as communicated by Jesus through the church, and not the creeds or the letter of Scripture or the rationalistic understanding, is the source and basis of dogmatic theology. The work is therefore simply a description of the facts of religious feeling, or of the inner life of the soul in its relations to God, and these inward facts are looked at in the various stages of their development and presented in their systematic connection. The aim of the work was to reform Protestant theology, to put an end to the unreason and superficiality of both supernaturalism and rationalism, and to deliver religion and theology from dependence on perpetually changing systems of philosophy.\n\nThough the work added to the reputation of its author, it aroused the increased opposition of the theological schools it was intended to overthrow, and at the same time Schleiermacher's defence of the right of the church to frame its own liturgy in opposition to the arbitrary dictation of the monarch or his ministers brought him fresh troubles. He felt isolated, although his church and his lecture-room continued to be crowded.\n\nSchleiermacher continued with his translation of Plato and prepared a new and greatly altered edition of his \"Christlicher Glaube\", anticipating the latter in two letters to his friend Gottfried Lücke (in the \"Studien und Kritiken\", 1829), in which he defended his theological position generally and his book in particular against opponents on the right and the left.\n\nThe same year Schleiermacher lost his only son—Nathaniel (1820–1829)—a blow which, he said, \"drove the nails into his own coffin.\" But he continued to defend his theological position against Hengstenberg's party on the one hand and the rationalists Daniel Georg Konrad von Cölln (1788–1833) and David Schulz (1779–1854) on the other, protesting against both subscription to the ancient creeds and the imposition of a new rationalistic formulary.\n\nSchleiermacher died at age 65 of pneumonia on February 12, 1834.\n\nSchleiermacher's psychology takes as its basis the phenomenal dualism of the ego and the non-ego, and regards the life of man as the interaction of these elements with their interpenetration as its infinite destination. The dualism is therefore not absolute, and, though present in man's own constitution as composed of body and soul, is relative only even there. The ego is itself both body and soul — the conjunction of both constitutes it. Our \"organization\" or sense nature has its intellectual element, and our \"intellect\" its organic element, and there is no such thing as \"pure mind\" or \"pure body.\" The one general function of the ego, thought, becomes in relation to the non-ego either receptive or spontaneous action, and in both forms of action its organic, or sense, and its intellectual energies co-operate; and in relation to man, nature and the universe the ego gradually finds its true individuality by becoming a part of them, \"every extension of consciousness being higher life.\"\n\nThe specific functions of the ego, as determined by the relative predominance of sense or intellect, are either functions of the senses (or organism) or functions of the intellect. The former fall into the two classes of feelings (subjective) and perceptions (objective); the latter, according as the receptive or the spontaneous element predominates, into cognition and volition. In cognition, thought is ontologically oriented to the object; and in volition it is the teleological purpose of thought. In the first case we receive (in our fashion) the object of thought into ourselves. In the latter we plant it out into the world. Both cognition and volition are functions of thought as well as forms of moral action.\n\nIt is in those two functions that the real life of the ego is manifested, but behind them is self-consciousness permanently present, which is always both subjective and objective — consciousness of ourselves and of the non-ego. This self-consciousness is the third special form or function of thought — which is also called feeling and immediate knowledge. In it we cognize our own inner life as affected by the non-ego. As the non-ego helps or hinders, enlarges or limits, our inner life, we feel pleasure or pain. Aesthetic, moral and religious feelings are respectively produced by the reception into consciousness of large ideas — nature, mankind and the world; those feelings are the sense of being one with these vast objects. Religious feeling therefore is the highest form of thought and of life; in it we are conscious of our unity with the world and God; it is thus the sense of absolute dependence.\n\nSchleiermacher's doctrine of knowledge accepts the fundamental principle of Kant that knowledge is bounded by experience, but it seeks to remove Kant's scepticism as to knowledge of the \"ding an sich\" (the \"noumenon\") or \"Sein\", as Schleiermacher's term is. The idea of knowledge or scientific thought as distinguished from the passive form of thought — of aesthetics and religion — is thought which is produced by all thinkers in the same form and which corresponds to being. All knowledge takes the form of the concept (\"Begriff\") or the judgment (\"Urteil\"), the former conceiving the variety of being as a definite unity and plurality, and the latter simply connecting the concept with certain individual objects.\n\nIn the concept therefore the intellectual and in the judgment the organic or sense element predominates. The universal uniformity of the production of judgments presupposes the uniformity of our relations to the outward world, and the uniformity of concepts rests similarly on the likeness of our inward nature. This uniformity is not based on the sameness of either the intellectual or the organic functions alone, but on the correspondence of the forms of thought and sensation with the forms of being. The essential nature of the concept is that it combines the general and the special, and the same combination recurs in being; in being the system of substantial or permanent forms answers to the system of concepts and the relation of cause and effect to the system of judgments, the higher concept answering to \"force\" and the lower to the phenomena of force, and the judgment to the contingent interaction of things.\n\nThe sum of being consists of the two systems of substantial forms and interactional relations, and it reappears in the form of concept and judgment, the concept representing being and the judgment being in action. Knowledge has under both forms the same object, the relative difference of the two being that when the conceptual form predominates we have speculative science and when the form of judgment prevails we have empirical or historical science. Throughout the domain of knowledge the two forms are found in constant mutual relations, another proof of the fundamental unity of thought and being or of the objectivity of knowledge. Plato, Spinoza and Kant had contributed characteristic elements of their thought to this system, and directly or indirectly it was largely indebted to Schelling for fundamental conceptions.\n\nSchleiermacher's work has had a profound impact upon the philosophical field of hermeneutics. In fact, Schleiermacher is often referred to as \"the father of modern hermeneutics as a general study.\" While Schleiermacher did not publish extensively on hermeneutics during his lifetime, he lectured widely on the field. His published and unpublished writings on hermeneutics were collected together after his death, albeit with some disagreement over ordering and placement of individual texts and lecture notes.\n\nSchleiermacher’s desire to approach hermeneutics in a more general sense was an attempt to shift away from more specific methods of interpretation, such as ways of interpreting biblical or classical texts, to a focus on the way in which people understand texts in general. Though he was certainly interested in interpreting Scripture, he thought one could only do so properly once one had established a system of interpretation that was applicable to all texts. This process was not a systematic or strictly philological approach, but what he called \"the art of understanding.\" Schleiermacher understood that reading a text was a discourse between the interpreter and the text itself; however, he considered the text as the means by which the author is communicating thoughts previous to the creation of the text. These thoughts are what ultimately cause the author to produce the text, thus the place where these \"inner thoughts\" become \"outer expression\" in language is at the moment of text creation. This is where the meaning of a text ultimately resides for Schleiermacher.\n\nIn order to interpret a text, then, the interpreter must consider both the inner thoughts of the author and the language that s/he used in writing the text. This artistic approach to interpreting texts contained within it an ebb-and-flow between what Schleiermacher called the \"grammatical interpretation\" and the \"psychological (or technical) interpretation.\" The former deals with the language of the text, the latter with the thoughts and aims of the author.\n\nThe ultimate goal of hermeneutics for Schleiermacher is \"understanding in the highest sense.\" In this way, the object to be understood stems from a thought of an author, and then is expressed through language. The relationship of the author to language is cyclical, since the author is limited by his/her language and historical context, but s/he also contributes to language as a whole through new ideas and the appropriation of language. The interpreter must understand how its original audience understood this language.\n\nSince the language used by an author \"is what mediates sensuously and externally between utterer and listener\" the art of understanding becomes just as much the art of avoiding misunderstanding. Schleiermacher divides misunderstanding into two forms: qualitative and quantitative. Qualitative misunderstanding is not understanding the content, or \"the confusion of the meaning of a word for another.\" Quantitative is misunderstanding the nuance in the author’s own \"sphere.\" As a result of these possible misunderstandings, the need for the grammatical side of interpretation is glaring.\n\nThe grammatical interpretation leads to the technical interpretation as the reader attempts to understand why the author selected the language s/he did to convey his/her inner thoughts. Part of the task of hermeneutics is to fully understand these thoughts through the author’s discourse, even better than the author him/herself. This can be done by discovering unity within the author, first in knowing why a particular work was produced, secondly in other works produced in a similar genre by others, and finally by other works by the same author in any genre. The interpreter can then evaluate what the effect of the work was on the author’s context. If a reader can understand the psyche of the author, s/he can understand the work, but only in balance with the grammatical side of interpretation, which attempts to understand the work to understand the inner thoughts of the author. \"Understanding\" for Schleiermacher is the art of experiencing the same process of thought that the author experienced. Understanding is made possible by the fact that author and reader, since both are human, share the reasoning ability. Therefore, the process of understanding is not only a historical process, learning about the context in which the author wrote, but also a psychological process, drawing upon the connection between interpreter and the author. Thus, hermeneutics is a cyclical task, but for Schleiermacher it is not viciously circular because of the role of intuition. As humans, therefore, interpreters approach a text with some shared understanding with the author that creates the possibility of understanding.\n\nDespite Schleiermacher’s claim to the potential understanding of the author’s thoughts better than the author, he grants that \"good interpretation can only be approximated\" and that hermeneutics is not a \"perfect art.\" The art puts the interpreter in the best position by \"putting oneself in possession of all the conditions of understanding.\" However, the extent of an interpreter’s understanding of a text is mostly limited by his or her own potential to misunderstand a text.\n\nThe impact of Schleiermacher's work on hermeneutics is significant. The claim of Schleiermacher as the father of hermeneutics seems to be justified by the fact that his work marks the beginning of hermeneutics as a general field of inquiry, separate from the specific disciplines (e.g. law or theology). His focus on hermeneutics as a theory of interpretation for any textual expression would be expanded even further to the theory of interpretation of lived experiences in the twentieth century by those like Heidegger, Gadamer, and Ricoeur.\n\nNext to religion and theology, Schleiermacher devoted himself to the moral world, of which the phenomena of religion and theology were, in his systems, only constituent elements. In his earlier essays he endeavoured to point out the defects of ancient and modern ethical thinkers, particularly of Kant and Fichte, with only Plato and Spinoza finding favour in his eyes. He failed to discover in previous moral systems any necessary basis in thought, any completeness as regards the phenomena of moral action, any systematic arrangement of its parts and any clear and distinct treatment of specific moral acts and relations.\n\nSchleiermacher's own moral system is an attempt to supply these deficiencies. It connects the moral world by a deductive process with the fundamental idea of knowledge and being; it offers a view of the entire world of human action which at all events aims at being exhaustive; it presents an arrangement of the matter of the science which tabulates its constituents after the model of the physical sciences; and it supplies a sharply defined treatment of specific moral phenomena in their relation to the fundamental idea of human life as a whole. Schleiermacher defines ethics as the theory of the nature of the reason, or as the scientific treatment of the effects produced by human reason in the world of nature and man.\n\nAs a theoretical or speculative science it is purely descriptive and not practical, being correlated on the one hand to physical science and on the other to history. Its method is the same as that of physical science, being distinguished from the latter only by its matter. The ontological basis of ethics is the unity of the real and the ideal, and the psychological and actual basis of the ethical process is the tendency of reason and nature to unite in the form of the complete organization of the latter by the former. The end of the ethical process is that nature (i.e. all that is not mind, the human body as well as external nature) may become the perfect symbol and organ of mind.\n\nConscience, as the subjective expression of the presupposed identity of reason and nature in their bases, guarantees the practicability of our moral vocation. Nature is preordained or constituted to become the symbol and organ of mind, just as mind is endowed with the impulse to realize this end. But the moral law must not be conceived under the form of an \"imperative\" or a \"Sollen\"; it differs from a law of nature only as being descriptive of the fact that it ranks the mind as conscious will, or \"Zweckdenken\", above nature. Strictly speaking, the antitheses of good and bad and of free and necessary have no place in an ethical system, but simply in history, which is obliged to compare the actual with the ideal, but as far as the terms \"good\" and \"bad\" are used in morals they express the rule or the contrary of reason, or the harmony or the contrary of the particular and the general. The idea of free as opposed to necessary expresses simply the fact that the mind can propose to itself ends, though a man cannot alter his own nature.\n\nIn contrast to Kant and Fichte and modern moral philosophers, Schleiermacher reintroduced and assigned pre-eminent importance to the doctrine of the \"summum bonum\", or highest good. It represents in his system the ideal and aim of the entire life of man, supplying the ethical view of the conduct of individuals in relation to society and the universe, and therewith constituting a philosophy of history at the same time. Starting with the idea of the highest good and of its constituent elements (\"Güter\"), or the chief forms of the union of mind and nature, Schleiermacher's system divides itself into the doctrine of moral ends, the doctrine of virtue and the doctrine of duties; in other words, as a development of the idea of the subjection of nature to reason it becomes a description of the actual forms of the triumphs of reason, of the moral power manifested therein and of the specific methods employed. Every moral good or product has a fourfold character: it is individual and' universal; it is an organ and symbol of the reason, that is, it is the product of the individual with relation to the community, and represents or manifests as well as classifies and rules nature.\n\nThe first two characteristics provide for the functions and rights of the individual as well as those of the community or race. Though a moral action may have these four characteristics at various degrees of strength, it ceases to be moral if one of them is quite absent. All moral products may be classified according to the predominance of one or the other of these characteristics. Universal organizing action produces the forms of intercourse, and universal symbolizing action produces the various forms of science; individual organizing action yields the forms of property and individual symbolizing action the various representations of feeling, all these constituting the relations, the productive spheres, or the social conditions of moral action. Moral functions cannot be performed by the individual in isolation but only in his relation to the family, the state, the school, the church, and society — all forms of human life which ethical science finds to its hand and leaves to the science of natural history to account for. The moral process is accomplished by the various sections of humanity in their individual spheres, and the doctrine of virtue deals with the reason as the moral power in each individual by which the totality of moral products is obtained.\n\nSchleiermacher classifies the virtues under the two forms of \"Gesinnung\" (\"disposition, attitude\") and \"Fertigkeit\" (\"dexterity, proficiency\"), the first consisting of the pure ideal element in action and the second the form it assumes in relation to circumstances, each of the two classes falling respectively into the two divisions of wisdom and love and of intelligence and application. In his system the doctrine of duty is the description of the method of the attainment of ethical ends, the conception of duty as an imperative, or obligation, being excluded, as we have seen. No action fulfills the conditions of duty except as it combines the three following antitheses: reference to the moral idea in its whole extent and likewise to a definite moral sphere; connection with existing conditions and at the same time absolute personal production; the fulfillment of the entire moral vocation every moment though it can only be done in a definite sphere. Duties are divided with reference to the principle that every man make his own the entire moral problem and act at the same time in an existing moral society. This condition gives four general classes of duty: duties of general association or duties with reference to the community (\"Rechtspflicht\"), and duties of vocation (\"Berufspflicht\") — both with a universal reference, duties of the conscience (in which the individual is sole judge), and duties of love or of personal association.\n\nIt was only the first of the three sections of the science of ethics — the doctrine of moral ends — that Schleiermacher handled with approximate completeness; the other two sections were treated very summarily. In his Christian Ethics he dealt with the subject from the basis of the Christian consciousness instead of from that of reason generally; the ethical phenomena dealt with are the same in both systems, and they throw light on each other, while the Christian system treats more at length and less aphoristically the principal ethical realities — church, state, family, art, science and society. Rothe, amongst other moral philosophers, bases his system substantially, with important departures, on Schleiermacher's. In Beneke's moral system his fundamental idea was worked out in its psychological relations.\n\nSchleiermacher held that an eternal hell was not compatible with the love of God. Divine punishment was rehabilitative, not penal, and designed to reform the person. He was one of the first major theologians of modern times to teach Christian Universalism.\n\n\"On Religion: Speeches to its Cultured Despisers\" is a book written by Schleiermacher dealing with the gap he saw as emerging between the cultural elite and general society. Schleiermacher was writing when the Enlightenment was in full swing and when the first major transition into modernity was simultaneously occurring. With the fall of the late Middle Ages and a vigorous discourse taking hold of Western European intellectuals, the fields of art and natural philosophy were flourishing. However, the discourse of theologians, arguably the primary and only discourse of intellectuals for centuries, had taken to its own now minor corner in the universities. \"On Religion\" is divided into five major sections: the Defense (\"Apologie\"), the Nature of Religion (\"Über das Wesen der Religion\"), the Cultivation of Religion (\"Über die Bildung zur Religion\"), Association in Religion (\"Über das Gesellige in der Religion, oder über Kirche und Priesterthum\"), and the Religions (\"Über die Religionen\"). Schleiermacher initiates his speeches on religion in its opening chapter by asserting that the contemporary critique of religion is often over-simplified by the assumption that there are two supposed \"hinges\" upon which all critiques of religion(s) are based. These two over-simplifications are given by Schleiermacher as first, that their conscience shall be put into judgement, and second, the \"general idea turns on the fear of an eternal being, or, broadly, respect for his influence on the occurrences of this life called by you providence, or expectation of a future life after this one, called by you immortality.\"\n\nFrom Leibniz, Lessing, Fichte, Jacobi and the Romantic school, Schleiermacher had imbibed a profound and mystical view of the inner depths of the human personality. His religious thought found its expression most notably in \"The Christian Faith\", one of the most influential works of Christian theology of its time.\n\nSchleiermacher saw the ego, the person, as an individualization of universal reason; and the primary act of self-consciousness as the first conjunction of universal and individual life, the immediate union or marriage of the universe with incarnated reason. Thus every person becomes a specific and original representation of the universe and a compendium of humanity, a microcosmos in which the world is immediately reflected. While therefore we cannot, as we have seen, attain the idea of the supreme unity of thought and being by either cognition or volition, we can find it in our own personality, in immediate self-consciousness or (which is the same in Schleiermacher's terminology) feeling. Feeling in this higher sense (as distinguished from \"organic\" sensibility, \"Empfindung\"), which is the minimum of distinct antithetic consciousness, the cessation of the antithesis of subject and object, constitutes likewise the unity of our being, in which the opposite functions of cognition and volition have their fundamental and permanent background of personality and their transitional link. Having its seat in this central point of our being, or indeed consisting in the essential fact of self-consciousness, religion lies at the basis of all thought, feeling and action.\n\nAt various periods of his life Schleiermacher used different terms to represent the character and relation of religious feeling. In his earlier days he called it a feeling or intuition of the universe, consciousness of the unity of reason and nature, of the infinite and the eternal within the finite and the temporal. In later life he described it as the feeling of absolute dependence, or, as meaning the same thing, the consciousness of being in relation to God. In his \"Addresses on Religion\" (1799), he wrote:\nSchleiermacher's concept of church has been contrasted with J.S. Semler's.\n\nThe Dutch Reformed theologian Herman Bavinck, deeply concerned with the problem of objectivism and subjectivism in the doctrine of revelation, employs Schleiermacher’s doctrine of revelation in his own way and regards the Bible as the objective standard for his theological work. Bavinck also stresses the importance of the church, which forms the Christian consciousness and experience. In so doing, he attempts to overcome the latent weakness of Schleiermacher’s doctrine of revelation through his emphasis on the ecclesiological doctrine of revelation.\n\nAsteroid 12694 Schleiermacher is named for this German theologian—the name was chosen by German astronomer Freimut Börngen.\n\nUnder the title \"Gesamtausgabe der Werke Schleiermachers in drei Abteilungen\", Schleiermacher's works were first published in three sections:\nSee also \"Sämmtliche Werke\" (Berlin, 1834ff.), and \"Werke: mit einem Bildnis Schleiermachers\" (Leipzig, 1910) in four volumes.\n\nOther works include:\n\nModern editions:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37507046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37507046", "title": "Gangoku Kankei", "text": "Gangoku Kankei\n\nGangoku Kankei () was a Sōtō Zen priest of the Edo period. He was the founding abbot of Shinpo-ji temple (新豊寺) in Nagoya Prefecture. The prominent modern Zen teachers Dainin Katagiri and Sawaki Kōdō both trace their lineages back to Gangoku.\n"}
{"id": "7780275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7780275", "title": "Giovanni Piana", "text": "Giovanni Piana\n\nPiana Giovanni (born April 5, 1940) is an Italian philosopher. He taught theoretical philosophy at the University of Milan from 1970 to 1999. Later, he went to live at Pietrabianca di Sangineto (Calabria), from which he continues to write and publish.\n\nHe was a disciple of Enzo Paci and wrote his dissertation on Husserl's unpublished works.\n\nHis philosophical position is characterised by the concept of phenomenology (\"phenomenological structuralism\") influenced by Husserl, Wittgenstein, and Bachelard. Some indications about phenomenological structuralism are contained in the online article: \"Die Idee eines phänomenologischen Strukturalismus\".\n\nHis thought is oriented towards the philosophy of knowledge, the philosophy of music, and the fields of perception and imagination.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "103193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103193", "title": "Henry Aldrich", "text": "Henry Aldrich\n\nHenry Aldrich (1647 – 14 December 1710) was an English theologian, philosopher, and composer.\n\nAldrich was educated at Westminster School under Dr Richard Busby. In 1662, he entered Christ Church, Oxford, and in 1689 was made Dean in succession to the Roman Catholic John Massey, who had fled to the Continent. In 1692, he became Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford until 1695. In 1702, he was appointed Rector of Wem in Shropshire, but continued to reside at Oxford, where he died on 14 December 1710. He was buried in Christ Church Cathedral without any memorial, at his own request.\n\nHenry Aldrich was a man of unusually varied gifts. A classical scholar of fair merits, he is best known as the author of a little book on logic (\"Artis Logicæ Compendium\"). Although not innovative in the field of Logic itself (it closely follows Peter of Spain's \"Summulae Logicales\"), its insistent use by generations of Oxford students has shown it to be of great synthetic and didactic value: the Compendium continued to be read at Oxford (in Mansel's revised edition) till long past the middle of the 19th century.\n\nAldrich also composed a number of anthems and church services of high merit, and adapted much of the music of Palestrina and Carissimi to English words with great skill and judgment. To him we owe the well-known catch, \"Hark, the bonny Christ Church bells.\"\n\nEvidence of his skill as an architect may be seen in the church and campanile of All Saints Church, Oxford, and in three sides of the so-called Peckwater Quadrangle of Christ Church, which were erected after his designs. He bore a great reputation for conviviality', and wrote a humorous Latin version of the popular ballad \"A soldier and a sailor, A tinker and a tailor\", etc.\n\nAnother specimen of his wit is furnished by the following epigram of the five reasons for drinking:\n\nThe translation runs:\n\n"}
{"id": "50762277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50762277", "title": "Hub-and-spoke conspiracy", "text": "Hub-and-spoke conspiracy\n\nA hub-and-spoke conspiracy (or hub-and-spokes conspiracy) is a legal construct or doctrine of United States antitrust and criminal law. In such a conspiracy, several parties (\"spokes\") enter into an unlawful agreement with a leading party (\"hub\"). The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit explained the concept in these terms:\n\nIn a \"hub-and-spoke conspiracy,\" a central mastermind, or \"hub,\" controls numerous \"spokes,\" or secondary co-conspirators. These co-conspirators participate in independent transactions with the individual or group of individuals at the \"hub\" that collectively further a single, illegal enterprise.\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit explained the concept in these terms:\n\nSuch a conspiracy involves a hub, generally the dominant purchaser or supplier in the relevant market, and the spokes, made up of the distributors involved in the conspiracy. The rim of the wheel is the connecting agreements among the horizontal competitors (distributors) that form the spokes.\n\nThe antitrust cases often emphasize the importance of interdependence among the spokes and their recognition of one another. The general criminal cases, such as narcotics conspiracy prosecutions, tend to require only a more general knowledge among the spokes that there is a larger overall unlawful scheme involving other actors who are cooperating with the hub in carrying out the scheme. It is controversial, particularly in the antitrust cases, how much knowledge spoke actors must have of the conduct of other spoke actors—which is to say how much of a \"rim\" must be put around the \"wheel\" of the hub-and-spoke conspiracy for it to be a single conspiracy rather than many separate \"vertical\" conspiracies. There is a controversy and some uncertainty over the legal status of the \"rimless\" conspiracy—one with very limited interaction among the spokes.\n\nThe leading two Supreme Court cases were \"Interstate Circuit\" and \"Kotteakos\".\n\nIn \"Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States\", the Government sued two groups of defendants for engaging in a price-fixing conspiracy. One group of eight defendants were distributors (such as Paramount Pictures) of motion picture films, that distributed about 75 percent of all first-class feature films exhibited in the United States.. A second group of defendants were two dominant theater owners in Texas and New Mexico—Interstate Circuit and a related company—which had a monopoly of first-run theaters in various cities.\nThe manager of the defendant theater owners sent a same or similar letter to each of the distributor defendants, naming on its face as addressees all of the defendant distributors. The letter demanded as a condition of continued dealing that the distributor (1) require that second-run theaters never exhibit the films at a smaller admission price than 25¢, and (2) never exhibit them in conjunction with another feature picture (so-called double features). Conferences discussing the matter were held between representatives of Interstate and individual distributors. The distributors each agreed and complied with the demands.\n\nThe Supreme Court held it permissible to draw \"the inference of agreement from the nature of the proposals made . . .[and] from the substantial unanimity of action taken upon them by the distributors.\" The Court emphasized that each distributor knew that the distributors all knew that the others were getting the same letter and knew that \"without substantially unanimous action with respect to the restrictions for any given territory, there was risk of a substantial loss of the business and goodwill of the subsequent-run and independent exhibitors, but that, with it, there was the prospect of increased profits.\" The Court said that provided \"strong motive for concerted action.\" The Court added:\n\nIt was enough that, knowing that concerted action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave their adherence to the scheme and participated in it. Each distributor was advised that the others were asked to participate; each knew that cooperation was essential to successful operation of the plan. . . . Acceptance by competitors, without previous agreement, of an invitation to participate in a plan the necessary consequence of which, if carried out, is restraint of interstate commerce is sufficient to establish an unlawful conspiracy under the Sherman Act.\n\nIn \"Kotteakos v. United States\", Simon Brown, owner of a construction company, conspired with Kotteakos and 31 other persons to defraud the Government by filing false statements in applications for loans for modernization and renovation under the National Housing Act. No connections was shown between the individual loan applicants. In each case, however, Brown induced the applicants to file the loan application and assisted them in applying, in return for a 5% commission.\n\nThe Court characterized the facts as showing: \"As the Government puts it, the pattern was 'that of separate spokes meeting at a common center,' though we may add without the rim of the wheel to enclose the spokes.\" The Court therefore held that while the indictment alleged one conspiracy the Government proved several (at least eight) conspiracies. That is, the Government failed to demonstrate the rim of the wheel, that connected the spokes to one another. \"Without the rim, an alleged hub-and-spoke cartel is merely a set of vertical relationships (or restraints) that result in parallel conduct and does not establish\" a hub-and-spoke conspiracy.\n\nSince \"Interstate Circuit\", the Supreme Court decided four hub-and-spoke conspiracy cases and one case rejecting a parallel-action conspiracy claim.\n\n\"United States v. Masonite Corp.\", was a patent–antitrust price-fixing case, in which the patent holder negotiated licenses with price-fixing clauses while resolving infringement disputes with some of the licensees. The Supreme Court said that each licensee “acted independently of the others, negotiated only with [the patent holder], desired the agreement regardless of the action that might be taken by any of the others, did not require as a condition of its acceptance . . . an agreement with any of the others, and had no discussions with any of the others.\" Nevertheless, the Court applied \"Interstate Circuit\" because:\n\nIt is not clear at what precise point of time each [defendant licensee] became aware of the fact that its contract was not an isolated transaction but part of a larger arrangement. But it [was] clear that as the arrangement continued each became familiar with its purpose and scope.”\n\nAccordingly, even if the evidentiary requirements of \"Interstate Circuit\" were not met at the outset of the cartel arrangement, they were met after it remained in place. \"It was enough that, knowing that concerted action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave their adherence to the scheme and participated in it.\"\n\nIn \"Blumenthal v. United States\", the Supreme Court looked at the other side of the coin of \"Kotteakos\". The Court distinguished the \"Kotteakos\" case involving several conspiracies from the case before it involving one conspiracy:\n\n[In \"Kotteakos\"] no two of those agreements were tied together as stages in the formation of a larger all-inclusive combination, all directed to achieving a single unlawful end or result. On the contrary each separate agreement had its own distinct, illegal end. Each loan was an end in itself, separate from all others, although all were alike in having similar illegal objects. Except for Brown, the common figure, no conspirator was interested in whether any loan except his own went through. And none aided in any way, by agreement or otherwise, in procuring another's loan. The conspiracies therefore were distinct and disconnected, not parts of a larger general scheme, both in the phase of agreement with Brown and also in the absence of any aid given to others as well as in specific object and result. There was no drawing of all together in a single, over-all, comprehensive plan. Here the contrary is true. All knew of and joined in the overriding scheme.\n\nIn \"Theatre Enterprises, Inc. v. Paramount Film Distributing Corp.\", the Supreme Court rejected a claim by a suburban theater owner (TEI) that a group of motion picture producers and distributors had violated the antitrust laws by conspiring to restrict first-run films to downtown Baltimore theaters, thus confining petitioner's suburban theater to subsequent runs and unreasonable \"clearances.\" Each of the defendant motion picture producers and distributors refused to make first-run films available to TEI and adhered to an established policy of restricting first-runs in Baltimore to the eight downtown theaters. There was no direct evidence of illegal agreement among the defendants. The \"crucial question\" was whether the defendants' conduct against TEI \"stemmed from independent decision or from an agreement, tacit or express.\" The lower court, in effect, refused to direct the jury to find a conspiracy based on the facts as to parallel refusals to deal with TEI. The Supreme Court said that was correct, because:\n\n[T]his Court has never held that proof of parallel business behavior conclusively establishes agreement or, phrased differently, that such behavior itself constitutes a Sherman Act offense. Circumstantial evidence of consciously parallel behavior may have made heavy inroads into the traditional judicial attitude toward conspiracy, but \"conscious parallelism\" has not yet read conspiracy out of the Sherman Act entirely.\n\nIn \"Klor’s, Inc. v. Broadway-Hale Stores, Inc.\", a major California department store, Broadway-Hale, induced Admiral, Emerson Radio, General Electric, Philco, RCA, Whirlpool, Zenith, and other major appliance manufacturers to stop selling to Klor's, a price cutter in San Francisco. Klor's brought an antitrust treble damages suit, alleging a conspiracy among Broadway-Hale and the manufacturers. By pre-trial order the case one was limited to a single conspiracy charging a Sherman Act violation. The defendants moved for summary judgment, and the lower courts agreed, on the grounds that Klor's was only one of many stores selling such goods, so that its elimination as a competitive factor did not substantially lessen competition in the general market—there was no public injury. Whether a conspiracy existed was by-passed, even though the allegations appear to have described a rimless wheel conspiracy, without the spokes (appliance manufacturers) being connected to one another, knowing what one another were doing, or being interdependent. The Supreme Court reversed, on the grounds that Klor's sufficiently pleaded a boycott conspiracy. The Court said, \"Alleged in this complaint is a wide combination consisting of manufacturers, distributors, and a retailer.\"\n\nIn \"United States v. Parke, Davis & Co.\" the Supreme Court held it proper to infer a combination among a drug manufacturer, wholesalers, and retailers when the manufacturer engaged in a substantial course of concerted activities in order to stop discounters from selling its products below recommended resale prices. The manufacturer \ninformed its wholesalers that it would terminate any wholesaler that sold its products to discounters, and enforced this policy. It discussed the policy with its wholesalers and retailers to secure adherence to it, and it put together an agreement among retailers not to advertise products at prices below those recommended. Parke Davis offered the retailers its products \"packaged in a competition-free wrapping . . . by virtue of concerted action induced by the manufacturer.\" Parke Davis was \"thus the organizer of a price maintenance combination or conspiracy in violation of the Sherman Act.\"\n\nIn \"United States v. General Motors Corp.\", a group of Chevrolet car dealers in the Los Angeles area persuaded GM to eliminate price cutters. In response to dealers' complaints organized by their trade associations, GM Los Angeles area officials treated the \"principal offenders\" to \"unprecedented individual confrontations\" and obtained promises to abandon the practices deemed objectionable. Most agreed promptly but one put off decision for a week \"to make sure that the other dealers, or most of them, had stopped their business dealings with discount houses.\" A \"joint effort between General Motors, the three [local dealer] associations, and a number of individual dealers\" was organized to police compliance. GM local officials confronted reoffenders and required them to repurchase cars sold in violation of policy. \"[T]he campaign to eliminate the discounters from commerce in new Chevrolet cars was a success.\"\n\nThe district court refused to find a Sherman Act violation. But the Supreme Court reversed. It explained:\n\nThe dealers collaborated, through the associations and otherwise, among themselves and with General Motors, both to enlist the aid of General Motors and to enforce dealers' promises to forsake the discounters. The associations explicitly entered into a joint venture to assist General Motors in policing the dealers' promises, and their joint proffer of aid was accepted and utilized by General Motors.\n\nNot only did the dealers conspire among themselves but they enlisted GM to act as the \"hub\" of the conspiracy:\n\nAs Parke Davis had done, General Motors sought to elicit from all the dealers agreements, substantially interrelated and interdependent, that none of them would do business with the discounters. These agreements were hammered out in meetings between nonconforming dealers and officials of General Motors' Chevrolet Division, and in telephone conversations with other dealers. It was acknowledged from the beginning that substantial unanimity would be essential if the agreements were to be forthcoming. And once the agreements were secured, General Motors both solicited and employed the assistance of its alleged co-conspirators in helping to police them. What resulted was a fabric interwoven by many strands of joint action to eliminate the discounters from participation in the market, to inhibit the free choice of franchised dealers to select their own methods of trade, and to provide multilateral surveillance and enforcement. This process for achieving and enforcing the desired objective can by no stretch of the imagination be described as \"unilateral\" or merely \"parallel.\"\n\nThis conduct was illegal \"per se\". \"Exclusion of traders from the market by means of combination or conspiracy is so inconsistent with the free market principles embodied in the Sherman Act that it is not to be saved by reference to the need for preserving the collaborators' profit margins or their system for distributing automobiles, any more than by reference to the allegedly tortious conduct against which a combination or conspiracy may be directed. . . . In addition, it was price fxing.\n\nThe various courts of appeals have interpreted and modified the Supreme Court's rulings on hub-and-spoke conspiracies.\n\nOne of the cases that the Supreme Court relied on in \"Blumenthal\" was \"Poliafico\". In \"Poliafico v. United States\", the Sixth Circuit found a conspiracy to sell heroin among several suppliers in bulk and their retail supplier agents (street dealers) who retailed it to addicts in diluted form and in smaller quantities. The Sixth Circuit explained the structure of the hub-and-spoke conspiracy as follows:\n\nAll of the appellants were either selling heroin to Poliafico and his associates, or reselling it for them, or carrying on negotiations for such sales, or making payments therefor, or delivering heroin for resale, or reselling it. The purchase of heroin and the resale of heroin, in this case, was concerned with one enterprise, which could be called the Poliafico deal, in the parlance of the underworld. The over-all conspiracy was the plan, conceived by Poliafico and his associates, to buy and sell heroin at a profit. The [retail] suppliers knew that the purchases were for resale and they also knew that several conspirators were involved in the purchases.\n\nThe court said, \"The fact that one such [retail] supplier did not have dealings with another [retail] supplier does not matter,\" because if \"each performs the same role at successive stages for the same ends, and both know and participate in the plan of the others to buy and sell heroin at a profit, each is guilty as a conspirator.\" The court explained its concept of a hub-and-spoke conspiracy:\n\nWhen two or more persons are shown to have been engaged in the same unlawful conspiracy, having for its object the same common and unlawful purpose, it is not necessary to prove the knowledge by one of the dealings, or even of the existence, of the others, in order to render evidence of the actions of those others admissible against that person. There was one conspiracy in this case — the continuing scheme of buying and reselling heroin.\nThe proofs of the government show that all appellants were associated in this scheme, some by virtue of selling or delivering the heroin to the Poliafico group, others because of being associated with the group in carrying out the scheme, collecting money through resales of the drug, making payments to suppliers, or carrying on negotiations for the purchase or resale. All appellants knew of the conspiracy. The suppliers knew that the Poliafico group must resell the heroin at a profit; and all associated with Poliafico in the resale of the heroin knew that Poliafico must buy it from suppliers and that the resales must be at a profit.\n\nIt is not necessary for each conspirator to know the whole scope or all the details of the conspiracy. \"He must know the [unlawful] purpose of the conspiracy, however, otherwise he is not guilty.\"\n\nOther narcotics conspiracy cases are similar. For example, in \"United States v. Tramaglino\", a distinguished panel of the Second Circuit (Swan, A. Hand, and Frank) found a single conspiracy to buy and resell marijuana based on \"evidence of several sales, at different periods, by Rosario and Tramaglino, of marihuana to the same group of buyers with knowledge on the part of the two suppliers that several conspirators were involved in the purchases and that the purchases were for resale.\" The court explained:\n\nThis was enough, we think, to show that each appellant, as supplier, participated in, and acted to further the ends of, the conspiracy. It did not matter that neither had dealings with one another; each performed the same role at successive stages for the same ends. The overall conspiracy was the plan conceived by the intermediary group — Alvarez, Zayas, and their fellows — to buy and resell marihuana at a profit. Both Rosario and Tramaglino knew and participated in this plan by furnishing the essential ingredient — the marihuana.\n\nA closely related concept to the hub-and-spoke conspiracy, or a variation on it, is the chain conspiracy, which is linear rather than wheel-shaped. A representative example is \"United States v. Bruno\". In \"Bruno\" 88 people were alleged to be members of a single conspiracy to import, sell and possess narcotics. The evidence was that over a substantial period of time a conspiracy existed embracing a great number of persons. The object of the conspiracy was to smuggle narcotics into New York and distribute them to addicts both in New York and in Texas and Louisiana. \"This required the cooperation of four groups of persons: the smugglers who imported the drugs; the middlemen who paid the smugglers and distributed to retailers; and two groups of retailers — one in New York and one in Texas and Louisiana — who supplied the addicts.\"\n\nThe defendants argued that there were at least three separate conspiracies: one between the smugglers and the middlemen, one in New York between the New York middlemen and group of retailers. and one in Texas and Louisiana between those middlemen and retailers. Since the evidence did not disclose any cooperation or communication between the smugglers and either group of retailers, or between the two groups of retailers themselves. However, insisted the court:\n\nThe smugglers knew that the middlemen must sell to retailers, and the retailers knew that the middlemen must buy of importers of one sort or another. Thus the conspirators at one end of the chain knew that the unlawful business would not, and could not, stop with their buyers; and those at the other end knew that it had not begun with their sellers. That being true, a jury might have found that all the accused were embarked upon a [single] venture, in all parts of which each was a participant, and an abettor in the sense that the success of that part with which he was immediately concerned, was dependent upon the success of the whole.\n\nThere could also be two conspiracies—one in New York including the smugglers, the New York middlemen and the New York group of retailers; and the other including the smugglers, the Gulf Coast middlemen and the Gulf Coast group of retailers. There was apparently no contact between the two groups of retailers, possibly negating their being in a conspiracy together. \"That too would be fallacious,\" the court said, because there was only one conspiracy as far as the defendant smugglers were concerned:\n\nFor it was of no moment to them whether the middlemen sold to one or more groups of retailers, provided they had a market somewhere. So too of any retailer; he knew that he was a necessary link in a scheme of distribution, and the others, whom he knew to be convenient to its execution, were as much parts of a single undertaking or enterprise as two salesmen in the same shop. We think therefore that there was only one conspiracy.\n\nTo sustain a chain conspiracy charge, the evidence must establish \"that each conspirator had the specific intent to further the common unlawful objective.\" It is immaterial that the individual co-conspirators do not know each other or meet. \"Courts have long recognized that participants in a continuous drug distribution enterprise can be parties to a single conspiracy even if they do not all know one another, so long as each knows that his own role in the distribution of drugs and the benefits he derives from his participation depend on the activities of the others.\"\n\nIn \"Elder-Beerman Stores Corp. v. Federated Dept. Stores, Inc.\", the plaintiff retailer E–B claimed that the defendant Federated department store chain conspired with 66 (later 12) suppliers in violation of the antitrust laws. E–B argued that Federated (and/or its predecessor Rike's) and the suppliers conspired to destroy E–B's ability to compete on fair terms, and for the purpose of attempting to obtain a department store monopoly in the Dayton, Ohio area.\n\nThe Sixth Circuit characterized E–B's legal theory as the \"rimless wheel\" theory. E–B contended that it had established a conspiracy by showing the following: Rike's used \"coercion\" to persuade some suppliers to grant Rike's the exclusive right to sell the merchandise involved; other suppliers granted exclusives to Rike's although E–B lacked evidence that Rike's had in fact used coercion to persuade them to do so; there was evidence of an exclusive relationship between Rike's and many of the suppliers; there was evidence of an exclusive arrangement resulting from \"coercion\" as to some of the suppliers; for the other suppliers, the basic evidence was they refused to sell to E–B; there was also evidence that Rike's refused to buy from certain suppliers who sold to E–B.\n\nThe trial court relied on \"Poliafico\" to find a single conspiracy. The Sixth Circuit said that in that case \"by the very nature of the business everyone involved in the alleged conspiracy had to know that other persons would be performing illegal acts in furtherance of the conspiracy.\" It therefore appears that to establish a conspiracy under the rimless wheel theory, it must be shown:\nSince there was no evidence for each supplier that the supplier in fact had knowledge of the existence of such conspiracy, such a supplier could not be considered a spoke. \"We, therefore, hold that on this record Elder-Beerman failed to offer sufficient probative evidence to establish the alleged single conspiracy upon which it bases its claim for damages.\" \n\nOne judge dissented as to the conspiracy issue. He stated:\n\nAccording to Elder-Beerman's theory, Rike's was the hub of the conspiratorial wheel and its exclusive suppliers were the spokes. One of the important questions in this case is whether the suppliers (or any of them) agreed with each other, as well as with Rike's, to participate in the conspiracy. My colleagues believe, and I believe, that there was no such evidence in this record. In short, there was no rim to this wheel, or to put it in more conventional antitrust language, there was no proof of a horizontal conspiracy.\n\nHowever, he considered it proper to find a single conspiracy as in \"Poliafico\". He found \"Kotteakos\" inapplicable because that was a ruling to protect the spokes from being tarred with one another's conduct after the hub had pleaded guilty. Here, in contrast, the supplier spokes are not in court, \"and the case proceeds against the central party charged with the conspiracy, the hub of this particular wheel.\" Any error is harmless, he said, and the case is more like \"Klor's\" than like \"Kotteakos\".\n\nThe \"Toys \"R\" Us\" chain of retail toy stores, the largest such U.S. chain (selling approximately 20% of all the toys sold in the United States), found itself encountering severe competition from price-cutting warehouse clubs. It became concerned that warehouse clubs—with substantially lower prices—presented a threat to its low-price image and its profits. The FTC determined that to eliminate this threat, Toys \"R\" Us used its dominant position as a toy distributor to extract parallel agreements from among ten principal toy manufacturers (such as Mattel, Hasbro, Fisher Price, Tyco, and Sega) to stop selling to warehouse clubs exactly the same toys that they sold to other toy distributors such as the clubs. The FTC explained that Toys \"R\" Us wanted \"to prevent consumers from comparing the price and quality of products in the clubs to the price and quality of the same toys displayed and sold at Toys \"R\" Us, and thereby to reduce the effectiveness of the clubs as competitors.\"\n\nThe FTC found that Toys \"R\" Us also used the acquiescence of one manufacturer to obtain that of others, orchestrating a horizontal agreement among at least seven manufacturers to adhere to Toys \"R\" Us’s restrictions. The company also used the manufacturers to police one another. When one manufacturer complained that a competitor was selling to warehouse clubs, Toys \"R\" Us threatened to stop buying that competitor’s products and got its renewed acquiescence to the sales restrictions. The FTC found that the effect of the agreements was to eliminate competition that would have driven Toys \"R\" Us to lower its prices had Toys \"R\" Us not taken action to stifle the competitive threat posed by the clubs. The FTC concluded that \"Toys \"R\" Us and its reluctant collaborators set out to eliminate from the marketplace a form of price competition and a style of service that increasing numbers of consumers preferred,\" and that Toys \"R\" Us’ had orchestrated a boycott that harmed the clubs, competition, and consumers without any \"business justification for a boycott that had [such] a pronounced anticompetitive effect.\"\n\nIn so ruling, the FTC emphasized that \"key toy manufacturers were unwilling to refuse to sell to or discriminate against the clubs unless they were assured that their competitors would do the same,” and that Toy \"R\" Us \"acted as the central player in the middle of what might be called a hub-and-spoke conspiracy, shuttling commitments back and forth between toy manufacturers and helping to hammer out points of shared understanding.”\n\nThe Seventh Circuit affirmed, comparing the case to \"Interstate Circuit\". The court emphasized FTC findings supporting a hub-and-spoke theory. For example, a Toys \"R\" Us official testified, \"We made a point to tell each of the vendors that we spoke to that we would be talking to our other key suppliers.\" Mattel and Hasbro executives testified that they went along with \"the special warehouse club policy (or, in the Commission's more pejorative language, boycott)\" only \"because our competitors had agreed\" to it.\n\nThe Seventh Circuit acknowledged that \"there must be some evidence that tends to exclude the possibility' that the alleged conspirators acted independently,\" but rejected the idea that \"the Commission had to exclude all possibility that the manufacturers acted independently.\" But the FTC relied on evidence even more compelling than that in \"Interstate Circuit\" because it included direct communications and interdependence—the manufacturers testified that \"the only condition on which each toy manufacturer would agree to [the boycott] demands was if it could be sure its competitors were doing the same thing.\" And \"as is classically true in such cartels,\" the court said, \"they were willing to do so only if TRU could protect them against cheaters.\"\n\nIn \"Dickson v. Microsoft Corp.\", the plaintiffs unsuccessfully argued that Microsoft had engaged in a hub-and-spoke conspiracy with three original equipment manufacturers (OEMs)—Compaq, Dell, and PB Electronics—to restrain trade, in violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act, in the sale of operating systems, word processing, and spreadsheet software, and also a conspiracy to maintain Microsoft's alleged monopolies in the same markets, in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act. The alleged conspiracy was a set of similar licensing agreements in which the licensees agreed: (1) not to remove icons, folders, or Start menu entries from the Windows desktop; (2) not to modify the initial Windows boot sequence; (3) to integrate Microsoft's Internet browser software Internet Explorer (IE) and other application software with Microsoft's operating system software; and (4) to long-term distribution contracts, exclusive dealing distribution arrangements, and per-processor license fees. In exchange, the OEM defendants received various benefits, including discounts on software and \"greater cooperation from Microsoft in product development.\" The OEMs also gained various competitive advantages in selling computer hardware. The district court held that the complaint failed to state a claim upon which relief could be granted, and dismissed the case. An appeal to the Fourth Circuit followed.\n\nThe Fourth Circuit said that the allegations described a \"rimless wheel\" conspiracy or a hub-and-spoke conspiracy. Citing \"Kotteakos\", the court stated, \"A rimless wheel conspiracy is one in which various defendants enter into separate agreements with a common defendant, but where the defendants have no connection with one another, other than the common defendant's involvement in each transaction.\" That is a hub-and-spoke conspiracy \"without the rim of the wheel to enclose the spokes.\" The court added, \"In \"Kotteakos\", the Supreme Court made clear that a rimless wheel conspiracy is not a single, general conspiracy but instead amounts to multiple conspiracies between the common defendant and each of the other defendants.\" Thus, the hub-and-spoke conspiracy claim failed. The claim of separate vertical conspiracies, however, potentially survived a motion to dismiss. The Fourth Circuit dismissed the complaint, however, on other grounds, including insufficient likelihood of substantial anticompetitive effects.\n\nA dissenting judge distinguished \"Kotteakos\" from this case and would have found a sufficient allegation of a conspiracy. The missing element in \"Kotteakos\" was interdependence; each of the other defendants used Brown's services independently of every other defendant's use. The rimless conspiracy pleaded here had as its elements: (1) an overall unlawful plan; (2) knowledge that others must be involved is inferable to each member, because of his knowledge of the unlawful nature of the subject of the conspiracy, but knowledge on the part of each member of the exact scope of the operation or the number of people involved is not required; and (3) each alleged co-conspirator participated in some way. The dissent argued that the allegations were that \"each OEM joined a conspiracy which it knew was, by its nature, broader than just itself and Microsoft.\" The dissent said this satisfied the Supreme Court's language on hub-and-spoke conspiracy in \"Interstate Circuit\" (\"[I]t is elementary that an unlawful conspiracy may be and often is formed without simultaneous action or agreement on the part of the conspirators\") and \"Masonite\" (\"Here, as in \"Interstate Circuit\", . . . [i]t was enough that, knowing that concerted action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave their adherence to the scheme and participated in it.\").\n\nIn \"PepsiCo, Inc. v. Coca-Cola Co.\", the Second Circuit rejected PepsiCo's claim that it had shown a hub-and-spoke conspiracy that Coca-Cola put together with independent food service distributors (\"IFDs\"), prohibiting the IFDs from delivering PepsiCo products to any of their customers. Coca-Cola had a \"loyalty program\" that provided that IFDs who supply customers with Coca-Cola may not \"handle [ ] the soft drink products\" of PepsiCo, under penalty of termination. PepsiCo had sued Coca-Cola, charging that the enforcement of the program violated Sherman Act § 1's per se rule against boycotts, but the court granted summary judgment because it found that PepsiCo failed to prove a horizontal agreement among IFDs to boycott PepsiCo. PepsiCo offered no evidence of direct communications among the IFDs; it offered only to prove that Coca-Cola assured the IFDs that the loyalty policy would be uniformly enforced and encouraged them to report violations. The Second Circuit said, \"We agree with the district court that this was insufficient evidence of a horizontal agreement to withstand summary judgment.\"\n\nPepsiCo argued that it had shown a per se illegal hub-and-spoke conspiracy. But the Second Circuit said the cases on which PepsiCo relied were price-fixing hub-and-spoke cases, such as \"Interstate Circuit\" and \"Parke, Davis\", which were based on \"per se\" illegal conduct. But vertical exclusive dealing agreements are not \"per se\" illegal, so that hub-and-spoke conspiracies to establish exclusive dealing are mot \"per se\" illegal. To be \"per se\" illegal as a boycott, the IFDs must agree together not to deal with PepsiCo. \"A horizontal agreement is a prerequisite in a group boycott case.\" Although it did not say so, the court apparently thought PepsiCo had shown merely a rimless wheel.\n\nIn \"United States v. Apple, Inc.\" (the \"eBook\" case), Apple decided to enter the electronic book business, which was dominated by Amazon, which sold about 90% of the ebooks of the six major U.S. publishers. Apple persuaded five of these Big 6 publishers to enter into agency distribution agreements with it as principal and them as agent. The agreements set prices, and the publishers raised their prices. Apple had established a cartel for the publishers. The district court found a hub-and-spoke price-fixing conspiracy and the Second Circuit affirmed. Apple unsuccessfully argued that the \"per se\" rule should not apply to a hub-and-spoke price-fixing conspiracy because it was \"vertical.\"\n\nIn the \"Guitar Center\" case, the Ninth Circuit considered an alleged hub-and-spoke conspiracy case similar to \"Klor's\" and \"Interstate Circuit\", but the court (2-1) found it implausible that the spokes conspired rather than merely acting independently in a parallel fashion. Guitar Center, the largest retail seller of musical instruments in the United States, accounted for about a third of all U.S. retail sales of guitars and guitar amplifiers. It was alleged that Guitar Center, a trade association of music retailers, and the five major manufacturers of guitars and guitar amplifiers conspired to set minimum prices at which any retailer could advertise the manufacturers' guitars and guitar amplifiers, in violation of the antitrust laws. The district court dismissed the federal antitrust claim on the pleadings.\n\nOn appeal to the Ninth Circuit, the court conceded that \"the line between horizontal and vertical restraints can blur,\" and a \"conspiracy can involve both direct competitors and actors up and down the supply chain, and hence consist of both horizontal and vertical agreements,\" as in a hub-and-spoke conspiracy. The court saw the key question before it as \"whether plaintiffs have pleaded sufficient facts to provide a plausible basis from which we can infer the alleged [manufacturers' horizontal] agreements' existence. \n\nThe court noted \"one key difference between a rimless hub-and-spoke conspiracy (i.e., a collection of purely vertical agreements) and a rimmed hub-and-spoke conspiracy (i.e., a collection of vertical agreements joined by horizontal agreements).\" The key difference was that \"courts analyze vertical agreements under the rule of reason, whereas horizontal agreements are violations per se.\" The court then commented on the plaintiffs' motives:\nThis distinction provides strong incentives for plaintiffs to plead a horizontal conspiracy (either alone or as part of a rimmed hub-and-spoke conspiracy). The prospect of establishing a violation per se is much more appealing to plaintiffs than the potential difficulty and costliness of proving a § 1 claim under the rule of reason.\n\nThe plaintiffs relied on proof of the manufacturers' parallel conduct (they adopted the minimum price policy at about the same time) together with some so-called plus factors. The claim that the manufacturers' conduct was interdependent—that is, it would succeed only if they all did the same thing as appropriate united front—was not enough, the court said, because \"companies base their actions in part on the anticipated reactions of their competitors. And because of this mutual awareness, two firms may arrive at identical decisions independently, as they are cognizant of—and reacting to—similar market pressures.\" The presence of plus factors is therefore critical. The court listed the plaintiffs' alleged plus factors—\"economic actions and outcomes that are largely inconsistent with unilateral conduct but largely consistent with explicitly coordinated action\"—that could make the manufacturers' parallel action appear to be the result of agreement, but dismissed each as insufficiently persuasive:\nIn the Ninth Circuit's view, all this showed was that \"Guitar Center used its substantial market power to pressure each manufacturer to adopt similar policies, and each manufacturer adopted those policies as in its own interest.\" \n\nOne judge dissented. He pointed out that \"although the majority opinion purports to address the six plus factors as a whole, it actually focuses on each factor individually.\" In his view, \"When truly analyzed together, the six plus factors strongly suggest that the manufacturer defendants reached an illegal horizontal agreement, which 'nudge' plaintiffs' allegations 'from conceivable to plausible.' \"\n\n● Professor Orbach asserts that in the \"Guitar Center\" case \"the Ninth Circuit made the error of trying to break the alleged conspiracy 'into its constituent parts, the respective vertical and horizontal agreements.' \" Since this was a dismissal on the pleadings, the court's analysis \"demand[s] that plaintiffs offer at the pleading stage evidence of direct horizontal coordination,\" which is a heavy burden. The result is that the court provides \"a free pass to hub-and-spoke conspiracies where vertical communications may have dispensed with the need for such horizontal coordination.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14291", "title": "Hussites", "text": "Hussites\n\nThe Hussites ( or \"Kališníci\"; \"Chalice People\") were a pre-Protestant Christian movement that followed the teachings of Czech reformer Jan Hus, who became the best known representative of the Bohemian Reformation. \n\nThe Hussite movement began in the Kingdom of Bohemia and quickly spread throughout the remaining Lands of the Bohemian Crown, including Moravia and Silesia. It also made inroads into the northern parts of the Kingdom of Hungary (now Slovakia), but was rejected and gained infamy for the plundering behavior of the Hussite soldiers. There were also very small temporary communities in Poland-Lithuania and Transylvania which moved to Bohemia after being confronted with religious intolerance. It was a regional movement that failed to expand anywhere farther. Hussites emerged as a majority Utraquist movement with a significant Taborite faction, and smaller regional ones that included Adamites, Orebites and Orphans. Major Hussite theologians included Petr Chelcicky, Jerome of Prague, and others. A number of Czech national heroes were Hussite, including Jan Zizka, who led a fierce resistance to five consecutive crusades proclaimed on Hussite Bohemia by the Papacy. Hussites were one of the most important forerunners of the Protestant Reformation. This predominantly religious movement was propelled by social issues and strengthened Czech national awareness.\n\nAfter the Council of Constance lured Jan Hus in with a letter of indemnity, then tried him for heresy and put him to death at the stake on 6 July 1415, the Hussites fought the Hussite Wars (1420–1434) for their religious and political cause. After the Hussite Wars ended, the Catholic-supported Utraquist side came out victorious from conflict with the Taborites and became the most common representation of the Hussite faith in Bohemia. Catholics and Utraquists were emancipated in Bohemia after the religious peace of Kutná Hora in 1485.\n\nBohemia and Moravia, or what is now the territory of the Czech Republic, remained majority Hussite for two centuries until Roman Catholicism was reimposed by the Holy Roman Emperor after the 1620 Battle of White Mountain during the Thirty Years' War. Due to this event and centuries of Habsburg persecution, Hussite traditions are merely represented in the Moravian Church, Unity of the Brethren, and the refounded Czechoslovak Hussite churches among present-day Christians.\n\nThe arrest of Hus in 1414 caused considerable resentment in Czech lands. The authorities of both countries appealed urgently and repeatedly to King Sigismund to release Jan Hus.\n\nWhen news of his death at the Council of Constance in 1415 arrived, disturbances broke out, directed primarily against the clergy and especially against the monks. Even the Archbishop narrowly escaped from the effects of this popular anger. The treatment of Hus was felt to be a disgrace inflicted upon the whole country and his death was seen as a criminal act. King Wenceslaus, prompted by his grudge against Sigismund, at first gave free vent to his indignation at the course of events in Constance. His wife openly favoured the friends of Hus. Avowed Hussites stood at the head of the government.\n\nA league was formed by certain lords, who pledged themselves to protect the free preaching of the Gospel upon all their possessions and estates and to obey the power of the Bishops only where their orders accorded with the injunctions of the Bible. The university would arbitrate any disputed points. The entire Hussite nobility joined the league. Other than verbal protest of the council's treatment of Hus, there was little evidence of any actions taken by the nobility until 1417. At that point several of the lesser nobility and some barons, signatories of the 1415 protest letter, removed Romanist priests from their parishes, replacing them with priests willing to give communion in both wine and bread. The chalice of wine became the central identifying symbol of the Hussite movement. If the king had joined, its resolutions would have received the sanction of the law; but he refused, and approached the newly formed Roman Catholic League of lords, whose members pledged themselves to support the king, the Catholic Church, and the Council. The prospect of a civil war began to emerge.\n\nPope Martin V as Cardinal Otto of Colonna had attacked Hus with relentless severity. He energetically resumed the battle against Hus's teaching after the enactments of the Council of Constance. He wished to eradicate completely the doctrine of Hus, for which purpose the co-operation of King Wenceslaus had to be obtained. In 1418, Sigismund succeeded in winning his brother over to the standpoint of the council by pointing out the inevitability of a religious war if the heretics in Bohemia found further protection. Hussite statesmen and army leaders had to leave the country and Roman Catholic priests were reinstated. These measures caused a general commotion which hastened the death of King Wenceslaus by a paralytic stroke in 1419. His heir was Sigismund.\n\nHussitism organised itself during the years 1415–1419. From the beginning, there formed two parties, with a smaller number of people withdrawing from both parties around the pacifist Petr Chelčický, whose teachings would form the foundation of the Unitas Fratrum.\n\nThe moderate party, who followed Hus more closely, sought to conduct reform while leaving the whole hierarchical and liturgical order of the Church untouched.\n\nThe more radical party identified itself more boldly with the doctrines of John Wycliffe, sharing his passionate hatred of the monastic clergy, and his desire to return the Church to its supposed condition during the time of the apostles. This required the removal of the existing hierarchy and the secularisation of ecclesiastical possessions. The radicals preached the \"sufficientia legis Christi\"—the divine law (i.e. the Bible) is the sole rule and canon for human society, not only in the church, but also in political and civil matters. They rejected therefore, as early as 1416, everything that they believed had no basis in the Bible, such as the veneration of saints and images, fasts, superfluous holidays, the oath, intercession for the dead, auricular Confession, indulgences, the sacraments of Confirmation and the Anointing of the Sick; they admitted laymen and women to the preacher's office, and chose their own priests. But above all they clung to Wycliffe's doctrine of the Lord's Supper, denying transubstantiation, and this is the principal point by which they are distinguished from the moderate party.\n\nThe programme of the more conservative Hussites (the moderate party) is contained in the Four Articles of Prague, which were written by Jakoubek ze Stříbra and agreed upon in July 1420, promulgated in the Latin, Czech, and German languages. The full text is about two pages long, but they are often summarized as:\n\n\nThe views of the moderate Hussites were widely represented at the University and among the citizens of Prague; they were therefore called the Prague Party, but also Calixtines (Latin \"calix\" chalice) or Utraquists (Latin \"utraque\" both), because they emphasized the second article of Prague, and the chalice became their emblem.\n\nThe radicals (the radical party) had their gathering-places all around the country. Their first armed assault fell on the small town of Ústí, on the river Lužnice, south of Prague (today's Sezimovo Ústí). However, as the place did not prove to be defensible, they settled in the remains of an older town upon a hill not far away and founded a new town, which they named Tábor (after the traditional name of the mountain on which Jesus was expected to return; see Mark 13); hence they were called Táborité (Taborites). They comprised the essential force of the radical Hussites. Their aim was to destroy the enemies of the law of God, and to defend his kingdom (which had been expected to come in a short time) by the sword. Their end-of-world visions did not come true. In order to preserve their settlement and spread their ideology, they waged bloody wars; in the beginning they observed a strict regime, inflicting the severest punishment equally for murder, as for less severe faults as adultery, perjury and usury, and also tried to apply rigid Biblical standards to the social order of the time. The Taborites usually had the support of the Orebites (later called Orphans), an eastern Bohemian sect of Hussitism based in Hradec Králové.\n\nHussites were not a unitary movement, but a diverse one with multiple factions that held different views and opposed each other in the Hussite Wars.\n\nHussites can be divided into:\n\n\nThe news of the death of King Wenceslaus in 1419 produced a great commotion among the people of Prague. A revolution swept over the country: churches and monasteries were destroyed, and church property was seized by the Hussite nobility. It was then, and remained till much later, in question whether Bohemia was a hereditary or an elective monarchy, especially as the line through which Sigismund claimed the throne had accepted that the Kingdom of Bohemia was an elective monarchy elected by the nobles, and thus the regent of the kingdom (Čeněk of Wartenberg) also explicitly stated that Sigismund had not been elected as reason for Sigismund's claim to not be accepted. Sigismund could get possession of \"his\" kingdom only by force of arms. Pope Martin V called upon Catholics of the West to take up arms against the Hussites, declaring a crusade, and there followed twelve years of warfare.\n\nThe Hussites initially campaigned defensively, but after 1427 they assumed the offensive. Apart from their religious aims, they fought for the national interests of the Czechs. The moderate and radical parties were united, and they not only repelled the attacks of the army of crusaders but crossed the borders into neighboring countries. On March 23, 1430, Joan of Arc dictated a letter that threatened to lead a crusading army against the Hussites unless they returned to the Catholic faith, but her capture by English and Burgundian troops two months later would keep her from carrying out this threat.\n\nEventually, the opponents of the Hussites found themselves forced to consider an amicable settlement. They invited a Bohemian embassy to appear at the Council of Basel. The discussions began on 10 January 1432, centering chiefly on the four articles of Prague. No agreement emerged. After repeated negotiations between the Basel Council and Bohemia, a Bohemian–Moravian state assembly in Prague accepted the \"Compacta\" of Prague on 30 November 1433. The agreement granted communion in both kinds to all who desired it, but with the understanding that Christ was entirely present in each kind. Free preaching was granted conditionally: the Church hierarchy had to approve and place priests, and the power of the bishop must be considered. The article which prohibited the secular power of the clergy was almost reversed.\n\nThe Taborites refused to conform. The Calixtines united with the Roman Catholics and destroyed the Taborites at the Battle of Lipany on (30 May 1434). From that time, the Taborites lost their importance, though the Hussite movement would continue in Poland for another five years, until the Royalist forces of Poland defeated the Polish Hussites at the Battle of Grotniki. The state assembly of Jihlava in 1436 confirmed the \"Compacta\" and gave them the sanction of law. This accomplished the reconciliation of Bohemia with Rome and the Western Church, and at last Sigismund obtained possession of the Bohemian crown. His reactionary measures caused a ferment in the whole country, but he died in 1437. The state assembly in Prague rejected Wyclif's doctrine of the Lord's Supper, which was obnoxious to the Utraquists, as heresy in 1444. Most of the Taborites now went over to the party of the Utraquists; the rest joined the \"Brothers of the Law of Christ\" () (see Unity of the Brethren; also Bohemian Brethren and Moravian Church).\n\nIn 1462, Pope Pius II declared the \"Compacta\" null and void, prohibited communion in both kinds, and acknowledged King George of Podebrady as king on condition that he would promise an unconditional harmony with the Roman Church. This he refused, but his successor, King Vladislaus II, favored the Roman Catholics and proceeded against some zealous clergymen of the Calixtines. The troubles of the Utraquists increased from year to year. In 1485, at the Diet of Kutná Hora, an agreement was made between the Roman Catholics and Utraquists that lasted for thirty-one years. It was only later, at the Diet of 1512, that the equal rights of both religions were permanently established. The appearance of Martin Luther was hailed by the Utraquist clergy, and Luther himself was astonished to find so many points of agreement between the doctrines of Hus and his own. But not all Utraquists approved of the German Reformation; a schism arose among them, and many returned to the Roman doctrine, while other elements had organised the \"Unitas Fratrum\" already in 1457.\n\nUnder Emperor Maximilian II, the Bohemian state assembly established the \"Confessio Bohemica\", upon which Lutherans, Reformed, and Bohemian Brethren agreed. From that time forward Hussitism began to die out. After the Battle of White Mountain on 8 November 1620 the Roman Catholic Faith was re-established with vigour, which fundamentally changed the religious conditions of the Czech lands.\n\nLeaders and members of Unitas Fratrum were forced to choose to either leave the many and varied southeastern principalities of what was the Holy Roman Empire (mainly Austria, Hungary, Bohemia, Moravia and parts of Germany and its many states), or to practice their beliefs secretly. As a result, members were forced underground and dispersed across northwestern Europe. The largest remaining communities of the Brethren were located in Lissa (Leszno) in Poland, which had historically strong ties with the Czechs, and in small, isolated groups in Moravia. Some, among them Jan Amos Comenius, fled to western Europe, mainly the Low Countries. A settlement of Hussites in Herrnhut, Saxony, now Germany, in 1722 caused the emergence of the Moravian Church.\n\nIn 1918, as a result of World War I, the Czech lands regained independence from Austria-Hungary controlled by the Habsburg monarchy as Czechoslovakia.\n\nToday, the Czechoslovak Hussite Church claims to be the modern successor of the Hussite tradition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8238850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8238850", "title": "Ion Dezideriu Sîrbu", "text": "Ion Dezideriu Sîrbu\n\nIon Dezideriu Sîrbu (also known as Ion Desideriu Sârbu or I. D. Sîrbu; June 28, 1919 – September 17, 1989) was a Romanian philosopher, novelist, essayist and dramatist.\n\nSîrbu was born in Petrila, Hunedoara. A university associate professor and theater critic, he was a victim of the communist regime, spending about 6 years (1957-1963) as a political prisoner. He died at Craiova, aged 70. His main novel, \"Adio, Europa!\" (\"Goodbye, Europe!\"), was published posthumously.\n"}
{"id": "38646911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38646911", "title": "John Lewis (philosopher)", "text": "John Lewis (philosopher)\n\nJohn Lewis (1 February 1889 – 12 February 1976) was a British Unitarian minister and Marxist philosopher and author of many works on philosophy, anthropology, and religion.\n\nLewis's father, a successful builder and architect, came from a Welsh farming family, and was a very devout Methodist. Young Lewis's social and political views clashed with those of his father. Their quarrels eventually led to his father disinheriting him.\n\nLewis attended Dulwich College and University College London, where he earned his B.Sc. Having been raised a Methodist, he soon left that church to become a Congregationalist. He studied for the ministry at Cambridge, and in 1916 was appointed to a Presbyterian church in Gravesend, Kent; in 1924, he moved to a church in Birmingham. He earned his Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Birmingham, specialising in the philosophy of Karl Marx, and becoming a Marxist himself.\n\nBy 1929, his left wing views were too strong for the church he was in and he moved to Ipswich as a Unitarian minister. Here, his leftist political sermons attracted a large youth following, but upset a group of older, more conservative members. Their complaints led Lewis to offer his resignation, to be put to a vote of the membership. In a packed and charged meeting, he received the support of the majority of church members.\n\nLewis participated in anti-war political activity starting in 1916. On one occasion, he had to be rescued from an angry crowd. He also became involved in work to support the unemployed, and served on the local Trades Union Council. On one occasion, at Christmas, he led a group of unemployed men who marched to the Town Hall, where the Mayor was holding his formal Christmas dinner. They walked in and sat down, demanding to join the feast.\n\nHe also was involved with the Boy Scout movement, running a Scout troop, and authoring training booklets. He acted as a guide for outdoor holidays organised by the Holiday Fellowship. He often went to Switzerland, and took parties up the Matterhorn.\n\nIn the 1935 General Election he stood unsuccessfully as Labour candidate for Great Yarmouth.\n\nThe Bolshevik Revolution had a great effect on Lewis, and he studied Russian. He became a Christian Socialist, and later a Marxist.\n\nIn 1936 the Left Book Club, started by the publisher Victor Gollancz, was very popular. Lewis quit his ministry in Ipswich to take on the task of building a national network of discussion groups. The groups brought together in a progressive movement intelligent, literate people who had not found rewarding political action in leftwing parties. Soon there were groups in every town. In effect, the Left Book Club and its groups had become a quasi-political party.\n\nHe also became the editor of the British Marxist journal, \"Modern Quarterly\", from 1946-1953. He was very interested in polemical writing, and authored many books and articles in a polemical vein on topics of philosophy, social issues, and Marxism. In one exchange of polemics, he took on the French Marxist philosopher Louis Althusser. Althusser's part of the exchange is the article \"Reply to John Lewis\".\n\n\"Reply to John Lewis\" first appeared, translated by Grahame Lock, in two numbers of the theoretical and political journal of the Communist Party of Great Britain, \"Marxism Today\", in October and November 1972. As Althusser himself noted: \" \"Reply\": because, a few months earlier (in its January and February numbers of 1972), the same journal had published a long critical article by John Lewis (a British Communist philosopher known for his interventions in political-ideological questions) under the title: \"The Althusser Case\".\"\n\nDuring World War II Lewis was a lecturer for the British Army, working with the Army Education Corps and the Army Bureau of Current Affairs and lecturing on, among other things, Britain's wartime ally, the Soviet Union.\n\nHe also taught at several different schools, including a stint teaching biology at Morley College, an adult education college in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33258890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33258890", "title": "Joseph A. Bracken", "text": "Joseph A. Bracken\n\nJoseph A. Bracken, S.J. is an American philosopher and Catholic theologian. Bracken is a proponent of process philosophy and process theology of Alfred North Whitehead and Charles Hartshorne. Much of his work is devoted to a synthesis of revealed religion and Christian trinitarian doctrines with a revised process theology. Bracken introduced a field theoretic approach to process metaphysics.\n\nBracken was born on 22 March 1930 in Chicago, Illinois, United States.\n\nBracken is Emeritus Professor of Theology at Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. He received his PhD from the University of Freiburg in Germany in 1968, and taught at University of Saint Mary of the Lake Mundelein Seminary in Illinois (1968–1974), and at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin (1974–1982), before becoming Chairman of the Theology Department at Xavier in 1982.\n\nBracken is the author and/or editor of 11 books and wrote about 150 articles in academic journals.\n\nHe brief summarized his approach in a book review in 2007: \"This is why in my own rethinking of Whitehead's metaphysics I presumed from the start that his metaphysical categories needed revision in order to accommodate Christian belief in God as Trinity. With this in mind, I soon realized that Whitehead's key category of \"society\" needed further development. A \"society,\" after all, must be more than an aggregate of actual occasions with a \"common element of form\" (PR 1968, 34) if philosophical atomism is to be avoided. My own solution was to reinterpret a Whiteheadian society as an enduring structured field of activity for successive generations of constituent actual occasions. Thus understood, a Whiteheadian \"society\" serves both to legitimate a trinitarian process-oriented understanding of God and to make Whitehead's philosophy an even stronger social ontology than he himself envisioned. That is, \"the final real things of which the world is made up\" are not simply actual occasions but the societies into which they spontaneously aggregate.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34283453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34283453", "title": "Joseph P. Iddings", "text": "Joseph P. Iddings\n\nJoseph Paxson Iddings (January 21, 1857 – September 8, 1920) was an American geologist and a petrologist.\nThe National Academies Press called Iddings \"an outstanding leader of petrology\".\nThe New York Times called him \"a distinguished petrologist\".\nIddings was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, a member of the Geological Society of London, the American Philosophical Society, a fellow of the Geological Society of America, a member of the Scientific Society of Christiania, an honorary member of the Société française de Mineralogie, an honorary curator of petrology in the U.S. National Museum.\nYale University established Iddings Scholarship for Graduate Studies.\n\nThe mineral iddingsite was named after him.\n"}
{"id": "4800126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4800126", "title": "Lock of hair", "text": "Lock of hair\n\nA lock of hair is a piece or pieces of hair that has been cut from, or remains singly on, a human head, most commonly bunched or tied together in some way. A standard dictionary definition defines a lock as a tress, curl, or ringlet of hair.\n\nLocks of hair carry symbolic value and have been utilized throughout history in various religious, superstitious, and sentimental roles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4050856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4050856", "title": "Lotusblüten", "text": "Lotusblüten\n\nLotusblüthen (1893-1900) and New Lotusblüten (1908-1913 (1914/15)) was a theosophical magazine published by Franz Hartmann. It was the second theosophical magazine in Germany and Austria after Wilhelm Hübbe-Schleidens \"Die Sphinx\".\n\n\"Lotusblüthen\" was a monthly journal containing articles and selected translations. The first edition appeared in March 1893 in Leipzig, the last in September 1900, thus there were altogether 96 editions. In each case six editions were bound to one booklet, i.e. editions January to June were combined into a large booklet, which appeared in each case in March, likewise editions July until Decembers with publication date in September. The format corresponded to today's DIN A 5. Franz Hartmann not only functioned as a publisher, but wrote also most of the published articles. The total number of pages of all editions during 1893 to 1900 was approx. 7300 pages, of this 6300 pages were written by Hartmann.\n\nThe new \"Lotusblüten\", (this time already written without \"h\"), was published after 1908. \nIt was now a bimonthly journal, containing original articles and selected translations. The first edition appeared June/July 1908 in Leipzig and Berlin, the last probably in June/July 1913, thus altogether there were 36 (possibly also 42 or 48) editions. It is unsure if the magazine was published in 1914 and 1915. During the secured six years of existence of the magazine until 1913, the total number of pages was approximately 2400 pages. The edition of 1913, was published, because of Hartmann's death on 7 August 1912, by Paul Harald Grävell von Jostenoode (1856-1932).\n\nThe new \"Lotusblüten\" did not reach the same level of quality as the first \"Lotusblüthen\".\n\nNumerous essays from the two magazines were published later in book form. So e.g.:\n\n\"Franz Hartmann as author\"\n\n\n\"Franz Hartmann as translator\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13723614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13723614", "title": "Luiz Eduardo Soares", "text": "Luiz Eduardo Soares\n\nLuiz Eduardo Soares (born March 12, 1954 in Nova Friburgo, Rio de Janeiro), is a Brazilian anthropologist, philosopher and political scientist.\n\nBetween 1999 and 2000, Soares coordinated the department of public safety in Rio de Janeiro. Between January and October, 2003, he was the National Secretary of Public Security. Currently, he occupies the post of Secretary of Municipal Valuation of Life and Prevention of Violence at Nova Iguacu (RJ). He is a professor at ESPM (School of Advertising and Marketing) in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nHe was also a professor at UERJ, Iuperj, Ucam and Unicamp, researcher at the ISER and at the Vera Institute of Justice, New York City and a visiting professor at Columbia University, University of Virginia and University of Pittsburgh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19519391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19519391", "title": "Manuel Sacristán", "text": "Manuel Sacristán\n\nManuel Sacristán Luzón (born Madrid, 1925, died Barcelona, 1985) was a Spanish philosopher and writer.\n\nSacristán, the son of a Francoist collaborator, moved to Barcelona in 1940, thereafter living most of his life in said city. He soon became a member of the Falange Española youth section and studied Law and Philosophy in the University of Barcelona, where he became a member of the cultural section of the \"Sindicato Español Universitario\" (the Falangist student union). After a thwarted contact with a clandestine Anarchist group, he and two fellow Falangists were shunned and persecuted by the mainstream SEU officials, resulting in the suicide of one of them and an ultimately ineffectual death warrant on Sacristán.\n\nHe subsequently moved to Münster, in Westphalia (German Federal Republic) in order to study Mathematical Logic and the Philosophy of Science (1954–1956). He became not only an excellent logician, but also a convinced reflective Marxist thinker and communist leader. Again in Barcelona, he taught in the Faculties of Philosophy and Economics of the University of Barcelona.\n\nHis academic career was fraught with difficulties. His political activity led him to the direction of the underground Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia (PSUC) and he had a leading role in the Catalan university movement. Due to his Marxist ideas, by which he was very influenced after his stay in Germany and which he introduced to Spain, he was expelled from the University in 1965. In 1966 he participated in the formation of the Barcelona Democratic Students’ Union. It was not until after Franco’s death with the restoration of democracy that he was again admitted. After having had to bear a bitter and humiliating period he was appointed professor of Methodology of Social Sciences at the University of Barcelona. During the academic year 1982-1983 he taught at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. It was in Mexico that he met Mª Ángeles Lizón, from whom he never parted until his death.\n\nFrom 1947 he was the creator and driving force behind different periodical publications of a political-cultural nature. Along with Juan Carlos García-Borrón, he ran the magazine \"Qvadrante\", he was editor of the \"Laye\" magazine and \"Quaderns de Cultura\" (an underground PSUC journal ). He directed and collaborated in Nous Horitzons, and in 1977 was a founder member of the magazine \"Materiales\". In 1979, in collaboration with Giulia Adinolfi, he set up a new magazine, \"Mientras Tanto\". This aimed to reconsider communist-emancipationist ideology through ecologist and feminist criticism and within the original Marxist matrix.\n\nThroughout his life he was extremely active as editor and translator for different publishing houses. He translated more than 80 works by several authors: most notably Mario Bunge, Karl Marx, Friedrich Engels, Antonio Gramsci (who may be regarded as one of his main intellectual references), Theodor W. Adorno, Karl Korsch, Lukács, Galvano Della Volpe, Galbraith, E. Fisher, Labriola, Marcuse, Ágnes Heller, G. Markus, and E. P. Thompson. Of special interest among his work as an author are \"Introducción a la lógica y al análisis formal\" (Barcelona, Ariel, 1969) and numerous articles and short texts posthumously collected in several volumes of \"Panfletos y materiales\" (Barcelona, Icaria, 1983–1985).\n\nIn 1975 he began the project of publishing a critical edition in Spanish of the complete works of Marx and Engels in 68 volumes, under the imprint of Editorial Grijalbo. Only twelve of the volumes of this venture appeared, among them Sacristán’s translations of \"Das Kapital\", books 1 and 2, and the \"Anti-Dühring\". Sacristán also edited and translated Antonio Gramsci’s anthology of texts in the publishing house Siglo XXI. His editorial work was always underpinned by a long and sustained commitment to research and teaching in the philosophical, methodological and critical-cultural fields, and a commitment to intervention in the ideological debate of his time.\n\nHis first contacts with the Communist Party of Spain (PCE) took place during his first stay in Germany. He was a clandestine member of the governing bodies of the PSUC and PCE, developing over many years an intense political activity, both at the university and on the cultural front. Since the May 1968 crisis (the events of May in Paris and the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia), his differences with the official line of the PCC and PSUC led him to resign from nearly all his posts, though he stayed with the party until the end of the 1970s. It was not until 1979 that he declared publicly that he did not belong to any political party.\n\nIn 1978 he joined the Antinuclear Committee of Catalonia and was part of the eco-pacifist and anti-NATO movement. He was also a major influence in the formation of the Federación de Enseñanza, an educational branch of the Comisiones Obreras trade union.\n\nUntil his death, on 27 August 1985, at the age of 59, Manuel Sacristán carried out an intense intellectual and political struggle, becoming one of the most prominent Spanish political philosophers of the twentieth century.\n\n\"The Marxism of Manuel Sacristán: From Communism to the New Social Movements\", Manuel Sacristán. Translated and edited by Renzo Llorente, 2014\n"}
{"id": "41493116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41493116", "title": "Mark Dooley", "text": "Mark Dooley\n\nMark Dooley (born 12 January 1970) is an Irish philosopher, writer and newspaper columnist. A specialist in continental philosophy, theology and the philosophy of religion, he is the author of several books, including \"The Politics of Exodus: Kierkegaard's Ethics of Responsibility\" (2001), \"Roger Scruton: The Philosopher of Dover Beach\" (2009), and \"Why Be a Catholic?\" (2011).\n\nDooley is a regular guest on Irish radio and has contributed to \"The Irish Times\", \"The Irish Independent\", \"The Sunday Independent\", and the \"Daily Mail\", among others. He writes a column for the \"Irish Daily Mail\" entitled \"Moral Matters\".\n\nDooley grew up in Dublin, where he attended the Synge Street CBS. He studied history and philosophy at University College Dublin (UCD), graduating with a BA in 1991 and obtaining his MA in philosophy in 1993. He earned his doctorate in philosophy in 1997, also from UCD, with a thesis on Kierkegaard; the thesis was published by Fordham University Press as \"The Politics of Exodus: Kierkegaard’s Ethics of Responsibility\" (2001). In the course of his research on Kierkegaard, he was awarded a Hong Kierkegaard Fellowship at St Olaf College, Minnesota.\n\nDooley taught philosophy and theology at University College Dublin (UCD) from 1993, where he was a John Henry Newman Scholar in theology. He was a visiting lecturer in philosophy at Maynooth University in 1998 and 1999, and returned as lecturer between 2006 and 2011.\n\nDooley is a regular broadcaster on Ireland's national radio (RTÉ, Newstalk, Today FM). Since 2002, Dooley has contributed to \"The Irish Times\", \"The Irish Independent\", \"The Sunday Independent\", \"The Irish Examiner\", \"Prospect Magazine\" and \"The Dublin Magazine.\"\n\nBetween 2003 and 2006, he wrote a column on foreign affairs for the \"Sunday Independent\". This column covered notably the conflict in the Middle East, the war in Iraq, and the use of Ireland as a European base for radical Islamist activities. Dooley reported on the headquartering in Ireland of several radical Islamic organisations (the Muslim Brotherhood, the European Council for Fatwa and Research and the International Union of Muslim Scholars). He became the spokesman and champion of the moderate and progressive Muslims in Ireland suffering from intimidation and seeking integration and peaceful coexistence.\n\nSince 2006 Dooley has worked as a cultural and political columnist for the \"Irish Daily Mail\". He is the author of the paper's 'Moral Matters' Wednesday column<ref name=\"http://drmarkdooley.com/columns\">http://drmarkdooley.com/columns/</ref> and also writes occasional 'Saturday Essays'.\n\nDooley lives in Co. Dublin with his wife and their three children.\n\nIn \"The Politics of Exodus: Kierkegaard's Ethics of Responsibility\" (2001), Dooley offers a new interpretation of Kierkegaard as a precursor of the ethical and political insights of Jacques Derrida. He argues that the connections between the two run much deeper than previously suggested. He shows Kierkegaard as being a proponent not of asocial individualism, but rather of the notion of an open quasi-community which has influenced Derrida's work.\n\n\"Questioning Ethics: Contemporary Debates in Philosophy\" (1999), co-edited with Richard Kearney, is a major overview of debates about contemporary European ethical thought bringing together the world's foremost philosophers. Including original essays by Paul Ricoeur, Alasdair MacIntyre, Jürgen Habermas, Jacques Derrida and Karl-Otto Apel, it considers the challenges posed by ethics and the transformation of philosophy by critical thinking. It discusses contemporary ethical issues related to historiography, memory, revisionism, responsibility and justice, democracy, multiculturalism and the future of politics.\n\n\"Questioning God\" (2001) comprises fifteen essays based on a conference organised by the editors (Mark Dooley, Michael J. Scanlon and John D. Caputo) at Villanova University in 1999. It explores contemporary thinking about God with special attention to the phenomenon of forgiveness. Contributors include John Milbank, Richard Kearney, Jean Greisch, Francis Schüssler Fiorenza, Kevin Hart and Jacques Derrida.\n\n\"A Passion for the Impossible: John D. Caputo in Focus\" (2002) is the first detailed study of the works of John D. Caputo. It features contributions from Jacques Derrida, W. Norris Clarke, William J. Richardson, Merold Westphal, Thomas R. Flynn, Richard Kearney & Edith Wyschogrod. In particular, it includes an interview of Derrida by Mark Dooley which contains Derrida's definitive statement on religion: ‘The Becoming Possible of the Impossible.'\n\nIn 2007, Dooley co-authored \"The Philosophy of Derrida\" which presents the core philosophical ideas of Jacques Derrida and an appraisal of their impact. \nIn this book, Derrida appears less as an iconoclast for whom deconstruction implies destruction than as a sensitive writer animated by a respect for institutions and a certain form of conservatism.\n\nHis correspondence with Derrida was included in the extensive archive of Derrida papers kept at the near Caen, Lower Normandy, France.\n\n\"Roger Scruton. The Philosopher of Dover Beach\" (2009) offers the first synoptic analysis of Roger Scruton’s philosophical thought. In the book, Dooley brings out the core ideas contained in 40 books written by Scruton over four decades, and provides the philosophical background to understand their genesis and their articulation. The composition of the book is pedagogic in that each chapter builds on the concepts laid in the previous one. The different chapters of this book then explore the genealogy of Scruton’s thought and the various themes running through his works: personhood, sex and the sacred; aesthetics; Scruton’s conservatism and its economic, legal and environmental implications; and the defence of the nation state in the face of liberal internationalism.\n\n\"The Roger Scruton Reader\", its companion volume, is a collection of texts by Scruton which Dooley selected, edited and introduced. They are grouped into the following categories: conservatism, the nation, sex and the sacred, culture, and one Dooley calls 'homecomings' and which contains texts on conserving nature, the philosophy of wine, and hunting. The volume also includes a previously unpublished article by Scruton about architecture entitled \"Classicism Now.\"\n\nIn \"Conversations with Roger Scruton\", published by Bloomsbury in 2016, Dooley sheds new light on hitherto overlooked areas of Scruton's life and thought.\n\nAfter exposing - at the request of seminarians and of the \"Irish Daily Mail\" - the sources of the moral crisis in Ireland's national seminary, Dooley received overwhelming support from the public and from the Church, and was asked by priests from various countries to write a book in which he would articulate the way forward for the Irish Catholic Church : \"Why be a Catholic?\" (2011).\n\nOn 22 November 2013, he was invited as guest of honour at the University of Caen Lower Normandy, France, where he was asked to give the keynote lecture about the current situation of the Irish Catholic Church. His lecture was entitled \"Reclaiming the Irish Church.\"\n\n\"Moral Matters. A Philosophy of Homecoming\" (2015) is loosely based on his weekly column in the \"Irish Daily Mail.\" It is a philosophical work about home and rootedness, memory and identity, loss and love. Analyzing the alienation experienced by the self when disengaging from the social sphere surrounding it, Dooley shows how the self can become re-rooted to time and place and restored to full humanity whilst moving in the virtual, hyperconnected world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18887", "title": "Metaphilosophy", "text": "Metaphilosophy\n\nMetaphilosophy (sometimes called philosophy of philosophy) is \"the investigation of the nature of philosophy\". Its subject matter includes the aims of philosophy, the boundaries of philosophy, and its methods. Thus, while philosophy characteristically inquires into the nature of being, the reality of objects, the possibility of knowledge, the nature of truth, and so on, metaphilosophy is the self-reflective inquiry into the nature, aims, and methods of the activity that makes these kinds of inquiries, by asking what \"is\" philosophy itself, what sorts of questions it should ask, how it might pose and answer them, and what it can achieve in doing so. It is considered by some to be a subject prior and preparatory to philosophy, while others see it as inherently a part of philosophy, or automatically a part of philosophy while others adopt some combination of these views. The interest in metaphilosophy led to the establishment of the journal \"Metaphilosophy\" in January 1970.\n\nAlthough the \"term\" metaphilosophy and explicit attention to metaphilosophy as a specific domain within philosophy arose in the 20th century, the topic is likely as old as philosophy itself, and can be traced back at least as far as the works of Plato and Aristotle.\n\nSome philosophers consider metaphilosophy to be a subject apart from philosophy, above or beyond it, while others object to that idea. Timothy Williamson argues that the philosophy of philosophy is \"automatically part of philosophy\", as is the philosophy of anything else. Nicholas Bunnin and Jiyuan Yu write that the separation of first- from second-order study has lost popularity as philosophers find it hard to observe the distinction. As evidenced by these contrasting opinions, debate persists as to whether the evaluation of the nature of philosophy is 'second order philosophy' or simply 'plain philosophy'.\n\nMany philosophers have expressed doubts over the value of metaphilosophy. Among them is Gilbert Ryle: \"preoccupation with questions about methods tends to distract us from prosecuting the methods themselves. We run as a rule, worse, not better, if we think a lot about our feet. So let us ... not speak of it all but just do it.\"\n\nThe designations \"metaphilosophy\" and \"philosophy of philosophy\" have a variety of meanings, sometimes taken to be synonyms, and sometimes seen as distinct.\n\nMorris Lazerowitz claims to have coined the term 'metaphilosophy' around 1940 and used it in print in 1942. Lazerowitz proposed that metaphilosophy is 'the investigation of the nature of philosophy'. Earlier uses have been found in translations from the French. The term is derived from Greek word \"meta\" μετά (\"after\", \"beyond\", \"with\") and \"philosophía\" φιλοσοφία (\"love of wisdom\").\n\nThe term 'metaphilosophy' is used by Paul Moser in the sense of a 'second-order' or more fundamental undertaking than philosophy itself, in the manner suggested by Charles Griswold:\n\nThis usage was considered nonsense by Ludwig Wittgenstein, who rejected the analogy between metalanguage and a metaphilosophy. As expressed by Martin Heidegger:\nSome other philosophers treat the prefix \"meta\" as simply meaning '\"about...\"', rather than as referring to a metatheoretical 'second-order' form of philosophy, among them Rescher and Double. Others, such as Williamson, prefer the term \"'philosophy of philosophy\"' instead of 'metaphilosophy' as it avoids the connotation of a 'second-order' discipline that looks down on philosophy, and instead denotes something that is a part of it. Joll suggests that to take metaphilosophy as 'the application of the methods of philosophy to philosophy itself' is too vague, while the view that sees metaphilosophy as a 'second-order' or more abstract discipline, outside philosophy, \"is narrow and tendentious\".\n\nIn the analytical tradition, the term \"metaphilosophy\" is mostly used to tag commenting and research on previous works as opposed to original contributions towards solving philosophical problems.\n\nLudwig Wittgenstein wrote about the nature of philosophical puzzles and philosophical understanding. He suggested philosophical errors arose from confusions about the nature of philosophical inquiry. In the \"Philosophical Investigations\", Wittgenstein wrote that there is not a metaphilosophy in the sense of a metatheory of philosophy.\n\nC. D. Broad distinguished Critical from Speculative philosophy in his \"The Subject-matter of Philosophy, and its Relations to the special Sciences,\" in \"Introduction to Scientific Thought\", 1923. Curt Ducasse, in \"Philosophy as a Science\", examines several views of the nature of philosophy, and concludes that philosophy has a distinct subject matter: appraisals. Ducasse's view has been among the first to be described as 'metaphilosophy'.\n\nHenri Lefebvre in \"Métaphilosophie\" (1965) argued, from a Marxian standpoint, in favor of an \"ontological break\", as a necessary methodological approach for critical social theory (whilst criticizing Louis Althusser's \"epistemological break\" with subjective Marxism, which represented a fundamental theoretical tool for the school of Marxist structuralism).\n\nPaul Moser writes that typical metaphilosophical discussion includes determining the conditions under which a claim can be said to be a philosophical one. He regards meta-ethics, the study of ethics, to be a form of metaphilosophy, as well as meta-epistemology, the study of epistemology.\n\nMany sub-disciplines of philosophy have their own branch of 'metaphilosophy', examples being meta-aesthetics, meta-epistemology, meta-ethics, meta-ontology, and so forth. However, some topics within 'metaphilosophy' cut across the various subdivisions of philosophy to consider fundamentals important to all its sub-disciplines. Some of these are mentioned below.\n\nSome philosophers (e.g. existentialists, pragmatists) think philosophy is ultimately a practical discipline that should help us lead meaningful lives by showing us who we are, how we relate to the world around us and what we should do. Others (e.g. analytic philosophers) see philosophy as a technical, formal, and entirely theoretical discipline, with goals such as \"the disinterested pursuit of knowledge for its own sake\". Other proposed goals of philosophy include \"discover[ing] the absolutely fundamental reason of everything it investigates\", \"making explicit the nature and significance of ordinary and scientific beliefs\", and unifying and transcending the insights given by science and religion. Others proposed that philosophy is a complex discipline because it has 4 or 6 different dimensions.\n\nDefining philosophy and its boundaries is itself problematic; Nigel Warburton has called it \"notoriously difficult\". There is no straightforward definition, and most interesting definitions are controversial. As Bertrand Russell wrote:\n\nWhile there is some agreement that philosophy involves general or fundamental topics, there is no clear agreement about a series of demarcation issues, including:\n\n\n\nPhilosophical method (or philosophical methodology) is the study of how to do philosophy. A common view among philosophers is that philosophy is distinguished by the ways that philosophers follow in addressing philosophical questions. There is not just one method that philosophers use to answer philosophical questions.\n\nRecently, some philosophers have cast doubt about intuition as a basic tool in philosophical inquiry, from Socrates up to contemporary philosophy of language. In \"Rethinking Intuition\" various thinkers discard intuition as a valid source of knowledge and thereby call into question 'a priori' philosophy. Experimental philosophy is a form of philosophical inquiry that makes at least partial use of empirical research—especially \"opinion polling\"—in order to address persistent philosophical questions. This is in contrast with the methods found in analytic philosophy, whereby some say a philosopher will sometimes begin by appealing to his or her intuitions on an issue and then form an argument with those intuitions as premises. However, disagreement about what experimental philosophy can accomplish is widespread and several philosophers have offered criticisms. One claim is that the empirical data gathered by experimental philosophers can have an indirect effect on philosophical questions by allowing for a better understanding of the underlying psychological processes which lead to philosophical intuitions.\n\nA prominent question in metaphilosophy is that of whether or not philosophical progress occurs and more so, whether such progress in philosophy is even possible. It has even been disputed, most notably by Ludwig Wittgenstein, whether genuine philosophical problems actually exist. The opposite has also been claimed, for example by Karl Popper, who held that such problems do exist, that they are solvable, and that he had actually found definite solutions to some of them.\n\nDavid Chalmers divides inquiry into philosophical progress in metaphilosophy into three questions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24361950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24361950", "title": "Nicholas Kalliakis", "text": "Nicholas Kalliakis\n\nNicholas Kalliakis (, \"Nikolaos Kalliakis\"; ; ; c. 1645 - May 8, 1707) was a Cretan scholar and philosopher who flourished in Italy in the 17th century. He was appointed doctor of philosophy and theology in Rome, university professor of Greek and Latin and Aristotelian philosophy at Venice in 1666 and professor of belles-lettres and rhetoric at Padua in 1667.\n\nNicholas Kalliakis was born of Greek ancestry in Candia, Crete which was under control of Venice (present-day Greece) in 1645. He migrated to Rome where he stayed for ten years, becoming one of the outstanding teachers of Greek and Latin, he was ultimately made doctor of philosophy and theology. He moved to Venice in 1666 where he was appointed professor of Aristotelian philosophy and of the Greek and Latin languages. He was appointed Director of the Greek college (the Collegio Flangini) in Venice from 1665 to 1676. In 1677 Nicholas Kalliakis was invited to Padua and took the chair of professor of the belles-lettres and of philosophy and rhetoric. He wrote treatises on the antiquities of Greece and Rome and studied the dance in classical antiquity, his principal work is the De ludis scenicis mimorum et pantomimorum syntagma. He remained in Padua until 1707 where he died.\n\n"}
{"id": "29131880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29131880", "title": "Ninth Bridgewater Treatise", "text": "Ninth Bridgewater Treatise\n\nThe Ninth Bridgewater Treatise was published by Charles Babbage in 1837 as a response to the eight Bridgewater Treatises that the Earl of Bridgewater, Francis Henry Egerton, 8th Earl, had funded and in particular with reference to a comment in one of them by William Whewell\n\nThe book is a work of natural theology, and incorporates extracts from related correspondence of Herschel with Charles Lyell. Babbage put forward the thesis that God had the omnipotence and foresight to create as a divine legislator. In this book, Babbage dealt with relating interpretations between science and religion; on the one hand, he insisted that \"there exists no fatal collision between the words of Scripture and the facts of nature;\" on the one hand, he wrote the Book of Genesis was not meant to be read literally in relation to geological terms. Against those who said these were in conflict, he wrote \"that the contradiction they have imagined can have no real existence, and that whilst the testimony of Moses remains unimpeached, we may also can be permitted to confide in the testimony of our senses.\"\n\nBabbage also defends the belief in miracles, in his Chapter VIII, where he states:\nReligious views of Charles Babbage\n"}
{"id": "9198205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9198205", "title": "Oshō", "text": "Oshō\n\nOshō is the Japanese reading of the Chinese \"hé shang\" (和尚), meaning a high-ranking Buddhist monk or highly virtuous Buddhist monk. It is also a respectful designation for Buddhist monks in general and may be used with the suffix \"-san\".\n\nAccording to the Kōjien Japanese dictionary and the Kanjigen dictionary of Chinese character source meanings, it is originally derived from the Sanskrit \"upadhyaya\", meaning \"master\" in the sense of \"teacher\".\n\nThe literal meaning is \"self-taught Buddhist monk/teacher\" The Chinese term \"he-shang\" is derived from the Sanskrit word upadhyaya or acharya:\nThe standard English translation of \"oshō\" has become \"priest\", it has a somewhat different connotation in Zen:\nAccording to the Kōjien, the two characters making up the word are actually pronounced \"oshō\" only in the Zen and Pure Land sects. For example, they are read \"kashō\" in the Tendai sect and \"wajō\" in the Shingon sect.\n\nOshō became an honorific title for Zen-masters\", meaning \"harmonious respect\":\nAn example of its use is in Rinzai's teachings:\nIn Sōtō Zen, to become an \"oshō\", teacher, two more steps are to be taken after dharma transmission, namely \"ten-e\" and \"zuise\".\n\n\"Ten-e\" means \"to turn the robe\":\nAfter \"zuise\" one becomes an \"oshō\", whereafter one may become the resident priest in one's own temple. Hereby one can gain the highest rank:\nTo supervise the training of monks, further qualifications are necessary:\nThe term became well known in the west when Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh started to call himself \"Osho\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3626197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3626197", "title": "Phenomenal conservatism", "text": "Phenomenal conservatism\n\nIn epistemology, phenomenal conservatism (PC) holds that it is reasonable to assume that things are as they appear, except when there are positive grounds for doubting this. (The term derives from the Greek word \"phainomenon\", meaning \"appearance\".)\n\nThe principle was initially defended by Michael Huemer in Huemer 2001, where it was formulated as follows:\n\n\nA later formulation (Huemer 2007), designed to allow the principle to encompass inferential as well as foundational justification, reads as follows:\n\n\nPhenomenal conservatism has been defended on three grounds.\n\n\nCritics of phenomenal conservatism have argued:\n\nIn addition, as a form of foundationalism, PC is open to some of the common objections to that doctrine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9460402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9460402", "title": "Pragmatic validity", "text": "Pragmatic validity\n\nPragmatic validity in research looks to a different paradigms from more traditional, (post)positivistic research approaches. It tries to ameliorate problems associated with the rigour-relevance debate, and is applicable in all kinds of research streams. Simply put, pragmatic validity looks at research from a prescriptive-driven perspective. Solutions to problems that actually occur in the complex and highly multivariate field of practice are developed in a way that, while valid for a specific situation, need to be adjusted according to the context in which they are to be applied.\n\nThe term \"validity\" is often seen as a sort catch-all for the question whether the knowledge claims resulting from research are warranted. The confusion might arise from the mingling of the terms ‘internal validity’ and ‘external validity’, where the former refers to proof of a causal link between a treatment and effect, and the latter is concerned with generalizability. (In this discussion I maintain the term ‘generalizability’ rather than external validity mainly to avoid any possible confusion between the two terms.) During this discussion I consider that validity is reflected in the question, “did we measure the right thing?”, or, in other words, can the researcher prove that the effect he observed was actually a result of the cause? Positivistic research approaches this question in a different way than pragmatic research, which is based in a different paradigm. Design Science Research is one example of research firmly situated in a pragmatic perspective.\n\nPostpositivist research typically strives to numerically report upon empirical observations made within a controlled environment in order to arrive at a universal truth about a causal effect between a limited number of variables. This statement relates what much of the epistemology of Positivistic science is based on: isolating singular variables in order to come to a conclusion that is free of context. Laboratory experiments and quantitative models are the preferred methods for observing and reporting. These are considered to rule out any rival plausible explanations and thus help to guarantee validity.\n\nValidity in prescription-driven research is approached in different ways than descriptive research. The first difference deals with what some researchers call ‘messy situations’ (Brown 1992; Collins, Joseph, and Bielaczuc 2004). A messy situation is a real-life, a highly multivariate one is where independent variables cannot be minimized nor completely accounted for. In explanatory science, experiments are in controlled laboratories, where variables can be minimalized. The complex nature of a real-life intervention means that the success or failure (effect) of the intervention may be difficult to conclusively link to the intervention itself (cause). This aspect of knowledge claims from science is seen as extremely problematic for positivist scientists looking for explanations. However, scientists using a pragmatic paradigm respond to this concept in two ways; first by questioning the value of research carried out in a controlled situation (Brown 1992; Hodkinson 2004; Kelly and Lesh 2000; Perrin 2000; Susman and Evered 1978; Walker and Evers 1999; Zaritsky et al. 2003) and secondly, by looking at causal effects through a different perspective.\n\nThe use of the phrase of Pragmatic Validity was first discussed in Worren, Moore & Elliott (2002), who contrasted it with Scientific Validity. This ideas has been taken up in the management literature to a considerable degree.\n\nMany social science researchers assert that testing interventions in controlled laboratory settings is hardly feasible and not a reflection of the real world. For them, real-life settings are needed in order to produce worthwhile research artifacts. These artifacts are validated by the adoption rate of the practitioners within the community of practice associated with the field. Nowotny (2000) calls knowledge that has been validated by the multidisciplinary community of practice ‘socially robust’, meaning that it has been developed in (and for) contexts outside the laboratory and can be used by practitioners.\n\nIn the following statement, Cook (1983) refers to the well-known educational researcher Cronbach about multivariate causal interdependency and validity, and the need for understanding the complexity of the situation being researched.\n\nLawful statements of causation require full knowledge of this system of variables so that total prediction of the outcome can be achieved. From his belief in the systemic organization of causal connections and the utility of causal explanations of this type, Cronbach questions whether the experimentalists’ isolation and manipulation of a small set of specific causal agents is sensitive to the real nature of causal agency, which depends on complex patterns of influence between multiple events and also involves characteristics of respondents, settings and times (p.78). \n\nThus, Cook (1983) actually questions the validity of causal explanations generated in a context-free setting (the goal of positivistic, explanatory research). Causal relationships in pragmatic research are looked at somewhat differently, which is apparent in the wording alone.\n\nA statement about a causal relationship in positivistic research is something like the following; if you perform action x to subject y, then z happens. This assumes that the confounding variables have been ruled out, and the statement is always true, regardless of the situation (internally and externally valid). What I want to do now is use the concept of ‘technological rules’ in order to illustrate how causality is shown in prescriptive.\n\nIn pragmatic science, the goal is to develop knowledge that can be used to improve a situation. This we can call prescriptive knowledge. Prescriptive knowledge, according to van Aken (2004, 2004b, 2005) can take the form of a technological rule. A technological rule is “...a chunk of general knowledge linking an intervention or artifact with an expected outcome or performance in a certain field of application” (van Aken, 2005: p23). This rule can be formulated much the same way as my earlier example of a causal statement; ‘if you perform action X to subject Y, then Z happens’ (Note the cause and effect formulation). This type of algorithmic formulation is called a design solution (vanAken and Romme 2005). A design solution is usually a statistically proven quantitative model that can be taken as specific instruction (van Aken & Romme, 2005). On the other hand, there are more abstract technological rules that are used for designing solutions. These are heuristics that guide, but do not determine, the design process and are called design solutions (van Aken 2005; van Aken and Romme 2005). Design solutions are formulated in the following way; “ If you want to achieve Y in situation Z, then you perform something like X” (van Aken & Romme, 2005; p. 6). In short, the resulting artifacts of pragmatic research can also be causal relationships, just typically not as specific or reductionist as those resulting from positivist research. The words ‘something like’ in the statement implicitly refer to the complexity in which the causal relationship is enacted. The causal agent (X, in the statement above) can also be seen as complex and multivariate (Cook, 1983). Testing these causal agents is done in context, much the same way as evaluation research tests social or economic programs (van Aken 2003) .\n\n"}
{"id": "99598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99598", "title": "Qin Shi Huang", "text": "Qin Shi Huang\n\nQin Shi Huang (, ; 18 February 25910 September 210) was the founder of the Qin dynasty and was the first emperor of a unified China. He was born Ying Zheng () or Zhao Zheng (), a prince of the state of Qin. He became Zheng, the King of Qin () when he was thirteen, then China's first emperor when he was 38 after the Qin had conquered all of the other Warring States and unified all of China in 221 BC. Rather than maintain the title of \"king\" ( \"wáng\") borne by the previous Shang and Zhou rulers, he ruled as the First Emperor () of the Qin dynasty from 220 to 210 BC. His self-invented title \"emperor\" ( \"\"), as indicated by his use of the word \"First\", would continue to be borne by Chinese rulers for the next two millennia.\n\nDuring his reign, his generals greatly expanded the size of the Chinese state: campaigns south of Chu permanently added the Yue lands of Hunan and Guangdong to the Chinese cultural orbit; campaigns in Central Asia conquered the Ordos Loop from the nomad Xiongnu, although eventually it would also lead to their confederation under Modu Chanyu. Qin Shi Huang also worked with his minister Li Si to enact major economic and political reforms aimed at the standardization of the diverse practices of the earlier Chinese states. He is traditionally said to have banned and burned many books and executed scholars, though a closer examination renders the account doubtful. His public works projects included the unification of diverse state walls into a single Great Wall of China and a massive new national road system, as well as the city-sized mausoleum guarded by the life-sized Terracotta Army. He ruled until his death in 210 BC during his fourth tour of Eastern China. His achievements made him one of the most respected and influential individuals in world history, and a legacy among the Chinese.\n\nModern Chinese sources often give the personal name of Qin Shi Huang as Ying Zheng, with Ying () taken as the surname and Zheng () the given name. In ancient China however the naming convention differed, and Zhao () may be used as the surname. Unlike modern Chinese names, the nobles of ancient China had two distinct surnames: the ancestral name () comprised a larger group descended from a prominent ancestor, usually said to have lived during the time of the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors of Chinese legend, and the clan name () comprised a smaller group that showed a branch's current fief or recent title. (This is remarkably similar to the practice of contemporary Romans for naming men, such as M. Tullius Cicero and C. Julius Caesar.) The ancient practice was to list men's names separatelySima Qian's \"Basic Annals of the First Emperor of Qin\" introduces him as \"given the name Zheng and the surname Zhao\"or to combine the clan surname with the personal name: Sima's account of Chu describes the sixteenth year of the reign of King Kaolie as \"the time when Zhao Zheng was enthroned as King of Qin\". However, since modern Chinese surnames (despite usually descending from clan names) use the same character as the old \"ancestral\" names, it is much more common in modern Chinese sources to see the emperor's personal name written as Ying Zheng, using the ancestral name of the Ying family.\n\nThe rulers of Qin had styled themselves kings from the time of King Huiwen in 325 BC. Upon his ascension, Zheng became known as the King of Qin or King Zheng of Qin. This title made him the nominal equal of the rulers of Shang and of Zhou, the last of whose kings had been deposed by King Zhaoxiang of Qin in 256 BC.\n\nFollowing the surrender of Qi in 221 BC, King Zheng had reunited all of the lands of the former Kingdom of Zhou. Rather than maintain his rank as king, however, he created a new title of \"huángdì\" (emperor) for himself. This new title combined two titles\"huáng\" of the mythical Three Sovereigns (, \"Sān Huáng\") and the \"dì\" of the legendary Five Emperors (, \"Wŭ Dì\") of Chinese prehistory. The title was intended to appropriate some of the prestige of the Yellow Emperor, whose cult was popular in the later Warring States period and who was considered to be a founder of the Chinese people. King Zheng chose the new regnal name of First Emperor (\"Shǐ Huángdì\", formerly transcribed as Shih Huang-ti) on the understanding that his successors would be successively titled the \"Second Emperor\", \"Third Emperor\", and so on through the generations. (In fact, the scheme lasted only as long as his immediate heir, the Second Emperor.) The new title carried religious overtones. For that reason, Sinologistsstarting with Peter Boodberg or Edward Schafersometimes translate it as \"thearch\" and the First Emperor as the First Thearch.\n\nThe First Emperor intended that his realm would remain intact through the ages but, following its overthrow and replacement by Han after his death, it became customary to prefix his title with Qin. Thus:\n\n\nAs early as Sima Qian, it was common to shorten the resulting four-character Qin Shi Huangdi to , variously transcribed as Qin Shihuang or Qin Shi Huang.\n\nFollowing his elevation as emperor, both Zheng's personal name and possibly its homophone became taboo. The First Emperor also arrogated the first-person Chinese pronoun ( *\"lrəm’\",  \"zhèn\") for his exclusive use and in 212 BC began calling himself The Immortal  *\"Tin-niŋ\",  \"Zhēnrén\",  \"True Man\"). Others were to address him as \"Your Majesty\"  \"Bìxià\",  \"Beneath the Palace Steps\") in person and \"Your Highness\" () in writing.\n\nAccording to the \"Records of the Grand Historian\", written by Sima Qian during the Han dynasty, the first emperor was the eldest son of the Qin prince Yiren, who later became King Zhuangxiang of Qin. Prince Yiren at that time was residing at the court of Zhao, serving as a hostage to guarantee the armistice between the Qin and Zhao states. Prince Yiren had fallen in love at first sight with a concubine of Lü Buwei, a rich merchant from the State of Wey. Lü consented for her to be Yiren's wife, who then became known as Lady Zhao (Zhao Ji) after the state of Zhao. Lady Zhao gave birth to the child on 18 February; and he was given the name Zhao Zheng – the name Zheng () came from his month of birth \"Zhengyue\", the first month of the Chinese lunar calendar; the clan name of Zhao came from his father's lineage and was unrelated to either his mother's name or the location of his birth. Lü Buwei's machinations later helped Yiren become King Zhuangxiang of Qin in 250 BC.\n\nHowever, the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" also claimed that the first emperor was not the actual son of Prince Yiren but that of Lü Buwei. According to this account, when Lü Buwei introduced the dancing girl to the prince, she was Lü Buwei's concubine and had already become pregnant by him, and the baby was born after an unusually long period of pregnancy. According to translations of the Annals of Lü Buwei, Zhao Ji gave birth to the future emperor in the city of Handan in 259 BC, the first month of the 48th year of King Zhaoxiang of Qin.\n\nThe idea that the emperor was an illegitimate child, widely believed throughout Chinese history, contributed to the generally negative view of the First Emperor. However, a number of modern scholars have doubted this account of his birth. Sinologist Derk Bodde wrote: \"There is good reason for believing that the sentence describing this unusual pregnancy is an interpolation added to the \"Shih-chi\" by an unknown person in order to slander the First Emperor and indicate his political as well as natal illegitimacy\". John Knoblock and Jeffrey Riegel, in their translation of Lü Buwei's \"Spring and Autumn Annals\", call the story \"patently false, meant both to libel Lü and to cast aspersions on the First Emperor\". Claiming Lü Buwei – a merchant – as the First Emperor's biological father was meant to be especially disparaging, since later Confucian society regarded merchants as the lowest of all social classes.\n\nIn 246 BC, when King Zhuangxiang died after a short reign of just three years, he was succeeded on the throne by his 13-year-old son. At the time, Zhao Zheng was still young, so Lü Buwei acted as the regent prime minister of the State of Qin, which was still waging war against the other six states. Nine years later, in 235 BC, Zhao Zheng assumed full power after Lü Buwei was banished for his involvement in a scandal with Queen Dowager Zhao.\n\nZhao Chengjiao, the Lord Chang'an (长安君), was Zhao Zheng's legitimate half-brother, by the same father but from a different mother. After Zhao Zheng inherited the throne, Chengjiao rebelled at Tunliu and surrendered to the state of Zhao. Chengjiao's remaining retainers and families were executed by Zhao Zheng.\n\nAs King Zheng grew older, Lü Buwei became fearful that the boy king would discover his liaison with his mother Lady Zhao. He decided to distance himself and look for a replacement for the queen dowager. He found a man named Lao Ai. According to \"The Record of Grand Historian\", Lao Ai was disguised as a eunuch by plucking his beard. Later Lao Ai and queen Zhao Ji got along so well they secretly had two sons together. Lao Ai then became ennobled as Marquis Lào Ǎi, and was showered with riches. Lao Ai's plot was supposed to replace King Zheng with one of the hidden sons. But during a dinner party drunken Lào Ǎi was heard bragging about being the young king's step father. In 238 BC the king was travelling to the ancient capital of Yōng (雍). Lao Ai seized the queen mother's seal and mobilized an army in an attempt to start a coup and rebel. When King Zheng found out this fact, he ordered Lü Buwei to let Lord Changping and Lord Changwen attack Lao Ai and their army killed hundreds of the rebels at the capital, although Lao Ai succeeded in fleeing from this battle.\n\nA price of 1 million copper coins was placed on Lao Ai's head if he was taken alive or half a million if dead. Lao Ai's supporters were captured and beheaded; then Lao Ai was tied up and torn to five pieces by horse carriages, while his entire family was executed to the third degree. The two hidden sons were also killed, while mother Zhao Ji was placed under house arrest until her death many years later. Lü Buwei drank a cup of poison wine and committed suicide in 235 BC. Ying Zheng then assumed full power as the King of the Qin state. Replacing Lü Buwei, Li Si became the new chancellor.\n\nKing Zheng and his troops continued to take over different states. The state of Yan was small, weak and frequently harassed by soldiers. It was no match for the Qin state. So Crown Prince Dan of Yan plotted an assassination attempt to get rid of King Zheng, begging Jing Ke to go on the mission in 227 BC. Jing Ke was accompanied by Qin Wuyang in the plot. Each was supposed to present a gift to King Zheng: a map of Dukang and the severed head of Fan Wuji.\n\nQin Wuyang first tried to present the map case gift, but trembled in fear and moved no further towards the king. Jing Ke continued to advance toward the king, while explaining that his partner \"has never set eyes on the Son of Heaven\", which is why he is trembling. Jing Ke had to present both gifts by himself. While unrolling the map, a dagger was revealed. The king drew back, stood on his feet, but struggled to draw the sword to defend himself. At the time, other palace officials were not allowed to carry weapons. Jing Ke pursued the king, attempting to stab him, but missed. King Zheng drew out his sword and cut Jing Ke's thigh. Jing Ke then threw the dagger, but missed again. Suffering eight wounds from the king's sword, Jing Ke realized his attempt had failed and knew that both of them would be killed afterwards. The Yan state was conquered by the Qin state five years later.\n\nGao Jianli was a close friend of Jing Ke, who wanted to avenge his death. As a famous lute player, one day he was summoned by King Zheng to play the instrument. Someone in the palace who had known him in the past exclaimed, \"This is Gao Jianli\". Unable to bring himself to kill such a skilled musician, the emperor ordered his eyes put out. But the king allowed Gao Jianli to play in his presence. He praised the playing and even allowed Gao Jianli to get closer. As part of the plot, the lute was fastened with a heavy piece of lead. He raised the lute and struck at the king. He missed, and his assassination attempt failed. Gao Jianli was later executed.\n\nIn 230 BC, King Zheng unleashed the final campaigns of the Warring States period, setting out to conquer the remaining independent kingdoms, one by one.\n\nThe first state to fall was Hán (韓; sometimes called Hann to distinguish it from the Hàn 漢 of Han dynasty), in 230 BC. Then Qin took advantage of natural disasters in 229 BC to invade and conquer Zhào, where Qin Shi Huang had been born. He now avenged his poor treatment as a child hostage there, seeking out and killing his enemies.\n\nQin armies conquered the state of Zhao in 228 BC, the northern country of Yan in 226 BC, the small state of Wei in 225 BC, and the largest state and greatest challenge, Chu, in 223 BC.\n\nIn 222 BC, the last remnants of Yan and the royal family were captured in Liaodong in the northeast. The only independent country left was now state of Qi, in the far east, what is now the Shandong peninsula. Terrified, the young king of Qi sent 200,000 people to defend his western borders. In 221 BC, the Qin armies invaded from the north, captured the king, and annexed Qi. Some of the strategies Qin used to unify China were to standardize the trade and communication, currency and language.\n\nFor the first time, all Chinese lands were unified under one powerful ruler. In that same year, King Zheng proclaimed himself the \"First Emperor\" (始皇帝, \"Shǐ Huángdì\"), no longer a king in the old sense and now far surpassing the achievements of the old Zhou Dynasty rulers. The emperor made the He Shi Bi into the Imperial Seal, known as the \"Heirloom Seal of the Realm\". The words, \"Having received the Mandate from Heaven, may (the emperor) lead a long and prosperous life.\" (受命於天，既壽永昌) were written by Prime Minister Li Si, and carved onto the seal by Sun Shou. The Seal was later passed from emperor to emperor for generations to come.\n\nIn the South, military expansion in the form of campaigns against the Yue tribes continued during his reign, with various regions being annexed to what is now Guangdong province and part of today's Vietnam.\n\nIn an attempt to avoid a recurrence of the political chaos of the Warring States period, Qin Shi Huang and his prime minister Li Si completely abolished feudalism. The empire was then divided into 36 commanderies (郡, \"Jùn\"), later more than 40 commanderies. The whole of China was thus divided into administrative units: first commanderies, then counties (縣, \"Xiàn\"), townships (鄉, \"Xiāng\") and hundred-family units (里, \"Li\", which roughly corresponds to the modern-day subdistricts and communities). This system was different from the previous dynasties, which had loose alliances and federations. People could no longer be identified by their native region or former feudal state, as when a person from Chu was called \"Chu person\" (楚人, \"Chu rén\"). Appointments were subsequently based on merit instead of hereditary rights.\n\nQin Shi Huang and Li Si unified China economically by standardizing the Chinese units of measurements such as weights and measures, the currency, and the length of the axles of carts to facilitate transport on the road system. The emperor also developed an extensive network of roads and canals connecting the provinces to improve trade between them. The currencies of the different states were also standardized to the Ban liang coin (半兩, \"Bàn Liǎng\"). Perhaps most importantly, the Chinese script was unified. Under Li Si, the seal script of the state of Qin was standardized through removal of variant forms within the Qin script itself. This newly standardized script was then made official throughout all the conquered regions, thus doing away with all the regional scripts to form one language, one communication system for all of China.\n\nQin Shi Huang also followed the school of the five elements, earth, wood, metal, fire and water. () Zhao Zheng's birth element is water, which is connected with the colour black. It was also believed that the royal house of the previous dynasty Zhou had ruled by the power of fire, which was the colour red. The new Qin dynasty must be ruled by the next element on the list, which is water, represented by the colour black. Black became the colour for garments, flags, pennants. Other associations include north as the cardinal direction, winter season and the number six. Tallies and official hats were long, carriages wide, one pace () was .\n\nWhile the previous Warring States era was one of constant warfare, it was also considered the golden age of free thought. Qin Shi Huang eliminated the Hundred Schools of Thought which incorporated Confucianism and other philosophies. After the unification of China, with all other schools of thought banned, legalism became the endorsed ideology of the Qin dynasty, which was basically a system that required the people to follow the laws or be punished accordingly.\n\nBeginning in 213 BC, at the instigation of Li Si and to avoid scholars' comparisons of his reign with the past, Qin Shi Huang ordered most existing books to be burned with the exception of those on astrology, agriculture, medicine, divination, and the history of the State of Qin. This would also serve the purpose of furthering the ongoing reformation of the writing system by removing examples of obsolete scripts. Owning the \"Book of Songs\" or the \"Classic of History\" was to be punished especially severely. According to the later \"Records of the Grand Historian\", the following year Qin Shi Huang had some 460 scholars buried alive for owning the forbidden books. The emperor's oldest son Fusu criticised him for this act.\n\nRecent research suggests that the \"burying of the Confucian scholars alive\" is a Confucian martyrs' legend; rather, the emperor ordered the killing (坑 \"kēng\") of a group of alchemists after having found that they had fooled him. In Han times, the Confucian scholars, who had served the Qin loyally, used that incident to distance themselves from the failed dynasty. Kong Anguo (孔安國 c. 165 – c. 74 BC), a descendant of Confucius, turned the alchemists (方士 \"fāngshì\") into Confucianists (儒 \"rú\") and entwined the martyrs' legend with the strange story of the rediscovery of the lost Confucian books behind a demolished wall in the house of his ancestors. The emperor's own library still had copies of the forbidden books but most of these were destroyed later when Xiang Yu burned the palaces of Xianyang in 206 BC.\n\nIn 230 BC, the state of Qin had defeated the state of Han. A Han aristocrat named Zhang Liang swore revenge on the Qin emperor. He sold all his valuables and in 218 BC, he hired a strongman assassin and built him a heavy metal cone weighing 120 jin (roughly 160 lb or 97 kg). The two men hid among the bushes along the emperor's route over a mountain. At a signal, the muscular assassin hurled the cone at the first carriage and shattered it. However, the emperor was actually in the second carriage, as he was travelling with two identical carriages for this very reason. Thus the attempt failed. Both men were able to escape in spite of a huge manhunt.\n\nThe Qin fought nomadic tribes to the north and north-west. The Xiongnu tribes were not defeated and subdued, thus the campaign was tiring and unsuccessful, and to prevent the Xiongnu from encroaching on the northern frontier any longer, the emperor ordered the construction of an immense defensive wall. This wall, for whose construction hundreds of thousands of men were mobilized, and an unknown number died, is a precursor to the current Great Wall of China. It connected numerous state walls which had been built during the previous four centuries, a network of small walls linking river defences to impassable cliffs.\n\nA famous South China quotation was \"In the North there is the Great wall, in the South there is the Lingqu canal\" (北有長城、南有靈渠, \"Běiyǒu chángchéng, nányǒu língqú\"). In 214 BC the Emperor began the project of a major canal to transport supplies to the army. The canal allows water transport between north and south China. The canal, 34 kilometres in length, links the Xiang River which flows into the Yangtze and the Li Jiang, which flows into the Pearl River. The canal connected two of China's major waterways and aided Qin's expansion into the south-west. The construction is considered one of the three great feats of Ancient Chinese engineering, the others being the Great Wall and the Sichuan Dujiangyan Irrigation System.\n\nLater in his life, Qin Shi Huang feared death and desperately sought the fabled elixir of life, which would supposedly allow him to live forever. He was obsessed with acquiring immortality and fell prey to many who offered him supposed elixirs. He visited Zhifu Island three times in order to achieve immortality.\n\nIn one case he sent Xu Fu, a Zhifu islander, with ships carrying hundreds of young men and women in search of the mystical Penglai mountain. They were sent to find Anqi Sheng, a 1,000-year-old magician whom Qin Shi Huang had supposedly met in his travels and who had invited him to seek him there. These people never returned, perhaps because they knew that if they returned without the promised elixir, they would surely be executed. Legends claim that they reached Japan and colonized it. It is also possible that the book burning, a purge on what could be seen as wasteful and useless literature, was, in part, an attempt to focus the minds of the Emperor's best scholars on the alchemical quest. Some of the executed scholars were those who had been unable to offer any evidence of their supernatural schemes. This may have been the ultimate means of testing their abilities: if any of them had magic powers, then they would surely come back to life when they were let out again. Since the great emperor was afraid of death and \"evil spirits\", he had workers build a series of tunnels and passageways to each of his palaces (he owned over 200), because traveling unseen would supposedly keep him safe from the evil spirits.\n\nIn 211 BC a large meteor is said to have fallen in Dōngjùn (東郡) in the lower reaches of the Yellow River. On it, an unknown person inscribed the words \"The First Emperor will die and his land will be divided\" (始皇死而地分). When the emperor heard of this, he sent an imperial secretary to investigate this prophecy. No one would confess to the deed, so all the people living nearby were put to death. The stone was then burned and pulverized.\n\nDuring his fourth tour of Eastern China, the Emperor became seriously ill after he arrived in Pingyuanjin (Pingyuan County, Shandong), and died on 10 September 210 BC (Julian Calendar) at the palace in Shaqiu prefecture (沙丘平台, \"Shāqiū Píngtái\"), about two months away by road from the capital Xianyang.\n\nThe cause of Qin Shi Huang's death is still largely unknown, reportedly, he died from Chinese alchemical elixir poisoning due to ingesting mercury pills, made by his alchemists and court physicians, believing it to be an elixir of immortality.\n\nAfter the Emperor's death, Prime Minister Li Si, who accompanied him, became extremely worried that the news of his death could trigger a general uprising in the Empire. It would take two months for the entourage to reach the capital, and it would not be possible to stop the uprising. Li Si decided to hide the death of the Emperor, and return to Xianyang. Most of the Imperial entourage accompanying the Emperor were left ignorant of the Emperor's death; only a younger son, Ying Huhai, who was travelling with his father, the eunuch Zhao Gao, Li Si, and five or six favourite eunuchs knew of the death. Li Si also ordered that two carts containing rotten fish be carried immediately before and after the wagon of the Emperor. The idea behind this was to prevent people from noticing the foul smell emanating from the wagon of the Emperor, where his body was starting to decompose severely as it was summertime. They also pulled down the shade so no one could see his face, changed his clothes daily, brought food and when he had to have important conversations, they would act as if he wanted to send them a message.\n\nEventually, after about two months, Li Si and the imperial court reached Xianyang, where the news of the death of the emperor was announced. Qin Shi Huang did not like to talk about his own death and he had never written a will. After his death, the eldest son Fusu would normally become the next emperor.\n\nLi Si and the chief eunuch Zhao Gao conspired to kill Fusu because Fusu's favorite general was Meng Tian, whom they disliked and feared; Meng Tian's brother, a senior minister, had once punished Zhao Gao. They believed that if Fusu was enthroned, they would lose their power. Li Si and Zhao Gao forged a letter from Qin Shi Huang saying that both Fusu and General Meng must commit suicide. The plan worked, and the younger son Hu Hai became the Second Emperor, later known as Qin Er Shi or \"Second Generation Qin\".\n\nQin Er Shi, however, was not as capable as his father. Revolts quickly erupted. His reign was a time of extreme civil unrest, and everything built by the First Emperor crumbled away within a short period. One of the immediate revolt attempts was the 209 BC Daze Village Uprising led by Chen Sheng and Wu Guang.\n\nThe following are some family members of Qin Shi Huang:\n\n\nQin Shi Huang had about 50 children (about 30 sons and 15 daughters), but most of their names are unknown. He had numerous concubines but appeared to have never named an empress.\n\nThe Chinese historian Sima Qian, writing a century after the First Emperor's death, wrote that it took 700,000 men to construct the emperor's mausoleum. British historian John Man points out that this figure is larger than the population of any city in the world at that time and he calculates that the foundations could have been built by 16,000 men in two years. While Sima Qian never mentioned the terracotta army, the statues were discovered by a group of farmers digging wells on March 29, 1974. The soldiers were created with a series of mix-and-match clay molds and then further individualized by the artists' hand. Han Purple was also used on some of the warriors. \nThere are around 6,000 Terracotta Warriors and their purpose was to protect the Emperor in the afterlife from evil spirits. Also among the army are chariots and 40,000 real bronze weapons.\n\nOne of the first projects which the young king accomplished while he was alive was the construction of his own tomb. In 215 BC Qin Shi Huang ordered General Meng Tian to begin its construction with the assistance of 300,000 men. Other sources suggest that he ordered 720,000 unpaid laborers to build his tomb according to his specifications. Again, given John Man's observation regarding populations at the time (see paragraph above), these historical estimates are debatable. The main tomb (located at ) containing the emperor has yet to be opened and there is evidence suggesting that it remains relatively intact. Sima Qian's description of the tomb includes replicas of palaces and scenic towers, \"rare utensils and wonderful objects\", 100 rivers made with mercury, representations of \"the heavenly bodies\", and crossbows rigged to shoot anyone who tried to break in. The tomb was built at the foot of Mount Li, 30 kilometers away from Xi'an. Modern archaeologists have located the tomb, and have inserted probes deep into it. The probes revealed abnormally high quantities of mercury, some 100 times the naturally occurring rate, suggesting that some parts of the legend are credible. Secrets were maintained, as most of the workmen who built the tomb were killed.\n\nTraditional Chinese historiography almost always portrayed the First Emperor of the Chinese unified states as a brutal tyrant who had an obsessive fear of assassination. Ideological antipathy towards the Legalist State of Qin was established as early as 266 BC, when Confucian philosopher Xunzi disparaged it. Later Confucian historians condemned the emperor who had burned the classics and had buried Confucian scholars alive. They eventually compiled a list of the \"Ten Crimes of Qin\" to highlight his tyrannical actions.\n\nThe famous Han poet and statesman Jia Yi concluded his essay \"The Faults of Qin\" (過秦論, \"Guò Qín Lùn\") with what was to become the standard Confucian judgment of the reasons for Qin's collapse. Jia Yi's essay, admired as a masterpiece of rhetoric and reasoning, was copied into two great Han histories and has had a far-reaching influence on Chinese political thought as a classic illustration of Confucian theory. He attributed Qin's disintegration to its internal failures. Jia Yi wrote that:\n\nIn more modern times, historical assessment of the First Emperor different from traditional Chinese historiography began to emerge. The reassessment was spurred on by the weakness of China in the latter half of the 19th century and early 20th century. At that time some began to regard Confucian traditions as an impediment to China's entry into the modern world, opening the way for changing perspectives.\n\nAt a time when foreign nations encroached upon Chinese territory, leading Kuomintang historian Xiao Yishan emphasized the role of Qin Shi Huang in repulsing the northern barbarians, particularly in the construction of the Great Wall.\n\nAnother historian, Ma Feibai (馬非百), published in 1941 a full-length revisionist biography of the First Emperor entitled \"Qín Shǐ Huángdì Zhuàn\" (秦始皇帝傳), calling him \"one of the great heroes of Chinese history\". Ma compared him with the contemporary leader Chiang Kai-shek and saw many parallels in the careers and policies of the two men, both of whom he admired. Chiang's Northern Expedition of the late 1920s, which directly preceded the new Nationalist government at Nanjing was compared to the unification brought about by Qin Shi Huang.\n\nWith the coming of the Communist Revolution and the establishment of a new, revolutionary regime in 1949, another re-evaluation of the First Emperor emerged as a Marxist critique. This new interpretation of Qin Shi Huang was generally a combination of traditional and modern views, but essentially critical. This is exemplified in the \"Complete History of China\", which was compiled in September 1955 as an official survey of Chinese history. The work described the First Emperor's major steps toward unification and standardisation as corresponding to the interests of the ruling group and the merchant class, not of the nation or the people, and the subsequent fall of his dynasty as a manifestation of the class struggle. The perennial debate about the fall of the Qin Dynasty was also explained in Marxist terms, the peasant rebellions being a revolt against oppression – a revolt which undermined the dynasty, but which was bound to fail because of a compromise with \"landlord class elements\".\n\nSince 1972, however, a radically different official view of Qin Shi Huang in accordance with Maoist thought has been given prominence throughout China. Hong Shidi's biography \"Qin Shi Huang\" initiated the re-evaluation. The work was published by the state press as a mass popular history, and it sold 1.85 million copies within two years. In the new era, Qin Shi Huang was seen as a far-sighted ruler who destroyed the forces of division and established the first unified, centralized state in Chinese history by rejecting the past. Personal attributes, such as his quest for immortality, so emphasized in traditional historiography, were scarcely mentioned. The new evaluations described approvingly how, in his time (an era of great political and social change), he had no compunctions against using violent methods to crush counter-revolutionaries, such as the \"industrial and commercial slave owner\" chancellor Lü Buwei. However, he was criticized for not being as thorough as he should have been, and as a result, after his death, hidden subversives under the leadership of the chief eunuch Zhao Gao were able to seize power and use it to restore the old feudal order.\n\nTo round out this re-evaluation, Luo Siding put forward a new interpretation of the precipitous collapse of the Qin Dynasty in an article entitled \"On the Class Struggle During the Period Between Qin and Han\" in a 1974 issue of \"Red Flag\", to replace the old explanation. The new theory claimed that the cause of the fall of Qin lay in the lack of thoroughness of Qin Shi Huang's \"dictatorship over the reactionaries, even to the extent of permitting them to worm their way into organs of political authority and usurp important posts.\"\n\nMao Zedong, chairman of the People's Republic of China, was reviled for his persecution of intellectuals. On being compared to the First Emperor, Mao responded: \"He buried 460 scholars alive; we have buried forty-six thousand scholars alive... You [intellectuals] revile us for being Qin Shi Huangs. You are wrong. We have surpassed Qin Shi Huang a hundredfold. When you berate us for imitating his despotism, we are happy to agree! Your mistake was that you did not say so enough.\"\nTom Ambrose characterises Qin Shi Huang as the founder of \"the first police state in history\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20322901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20322901", "title": "Reichsbund der Kinderreichen", "text": "Reichsbund der Kinderreichen\n\nReichsbund der Kinderreichen (RDK) or (RdK), \"Reich's Union of Large Families\" or, literally: \"Reich's League of those wealthy in children\", was one of the most important pronatalist groups founded in Germany after World War I.\nTo qualify as a member of this league a family should have at least four children. Widows were also admitted.\n\nThe German Large Family League was forcefully nazified after the Nazi takeover of power in 1933. As such its goal became the preservation and promotion of the German hereditarily healthy Aryan family (\"Erhaltung und Förderung der deutschen, erbgesunden, arischen Familie\").\n\nThe RDK was renamed \"Reichsbund Deutsche Familie, Kampfbund für erbtüchtigen Kinderreichtum\" (German Family Reich's League, Struggle League for a Hereditarily Strong Offspring), in April 1940, in the first years of World War II. Its new acronym became RDF and Dr. Robert Kaiser became its new leader.\n\nAs a Nazi organization the German Large Family League was disbanded after Nazi Germany's defeat in World War II. The American Military Government issued a special law outlawing the Nazi party and all of its branches. This Denazification decree was also known as \"Law number five\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1854919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854919", "title": "Religious naturalism", "text": "Religious naturalism\n\nReligious naturalism (RN) combines a naturalist worldview with perceptions and values commonly associated with religions. In this, \"religious\" is understood in general terms, separate from established traditions, in designating feelings and concerns (e.g. gratitude, wonder, humility, compassion) that are often described as spiritual or religious. Naturalism refers to a view that the natural world is all we have substantiated reason to believe exists, and there is no substantiated reason to believe that anything else, including deities, exists or may act in ways that are independent of the natural order.\n\nAreas of inquiry include attempts to understand the natural world and the spiritual and moral implications of naturalist views. Understanding is based in knowledge obtained through scientific inquiry and insights from the humanities and the arts. Religious naturalists use these perspectives in responding to personal and social challenges (e.g. finding purpose, seeking justice, coming to terms with mortality) and in relating to the natural world.\n\nNaturalism is the \"idea or belief that only natural (as opposed to supernatural or spiritual) laws and forces operate in the world\".\n\nAll forms of religious naturalism, being naturalistic in their basic beliefs, assert that the natural world is the center of our most significant experiences and understandings. Consequently, nature is considered as the ultimate value in assessing one's being. Religious naturalists, despite having followed differing cultural and individual paths, affirm the human need for meaning and value in their lives. They draw on two fundamental convictions in those quests: the sense of Nature's richness, spectacular complexity, and fertility, and the recognition that Nature is the only realm in which people live out their lives. Humans are considered interconnected parts of Nature.\n\nScience is a fundamental, indispensable component of the paradigm of religious naturalism. It relies on mainstream science to reinforce religious and spiritual perspectives. Science is the primary interpretive tool for religious naturalism, because, scientific methods are thought to provide the most reliable understanding of Nature and the world, including human nature.\n\nReligious naturalists use the term \"religious\" to refer to an attitude – of being appreciative of and interested in concerns that have long been parts of religions.\nThese include:\nAs the source of all that is and the reason why all things are as they are, the natural world may be seen as being of ultimate importance.\n\nAs in other religious orientations, religious naturalism includes a central story – a modern creation myth – to describe ourselves and our place in the world. This begins with the Big Bang and the emergence of galaxies, stars, planets, and life, and evolution that led to the presence of human beings. As this gives insight into who we are and how we came to be, religious naturalists look to the natural world (the source of our intelligence and inclinations) for information and insights that may help us to understand and respond to important questions: \nand to try to find ways to minimize problems (in ourselves and in our world), become our better selves, and relate to others and the world we are part of.\n\nWhen discussing distinctions between \"religious\" naturalists and \"plain old\" (secular) naturalists, Loyal Rue said:\n\"I regard a religious or spiritual person to be one who takes ultimate concerns to heart.\"\n\nHe noted that, while \"plain old\" naturalists are concerned with morals and may have emotional responses to the mysteries and wonders of the world, those who describe themselves as religious naturalists take it more \"to heart\" and show active interest in this area.\n\nCore themes in religious naturalism have been present, in varied cultures, for centuries. But active discussion, with use of this name, is relatively recent.\n\nZeno (c. 334 – c. 262 BCE, a founder of Stoicism) said:\n\nViews consistent with religious naturalism can be seen in ancient Daoist texts (e.g., Dao De Jing) and some Hindu views (such as God as Nirguṇa Brahman, God without attributes). They may also be seen in Western images that do not focus on active, personal aspects of God, such as Thomas Aquinas' view of God as Pure Act, Augustine's God as Being Itself, and Paul Tillich's view of God as Ground of Being. As Wesley Wildman has described, views consistent with RN have long existed as part of the underside of major religious traditions, often quietly and sometimes in mystical strands or intellectual sub-traditions, by practitioners who are not drawn to supernatural claims.\n\nThe earliest uses of the term, religious naturalism, seem to have occurred in the 1800s. In 1846, the \"American Whig Review\" described \"a seeming 'religious naturalism'\", In 1869, American Unitarian Association literature adjudged:\"Religious naturalism differs from this mainly in the fact that it extends the domain of nature farther outward into space and time. ...It never transcends nature\". Ludwig Feuerbach wrote that religious naturalism was \"the acknowledgment of the Divine in Nature\" and also \"an element of the Christian religion\", but by no means that religion's definitive \"characteristic\" or \"tendency\".\n\nMordecai Kaplan (1881–1983), one of the great rabbis of the 20th century and the founder of the Jewish reconstructionism movement, early advocated religious naturalism. He believed that a naturalistic approach to religion and ethics was possible in a desacralizing world. He saw God as the sum of all natural processes.\n\nOther verified usages of the term came in 1940 from George Perrigo Conger and from Edgar S. Brightman. Shortly thereafter, H. H. Dubs wrote an article entitled \"Religious Naturalism – an Evaluation\" (The Journal of Religion, XXIII: 4, October, 1943), which begins \"Religious naturalism is today one of the outstanding American philosophies of religion…\" and discusses ideas developed by Henry Nelson Wieman in books that predate Dubs's article by 20 years.\n\nIn 1991 Jerome A. Stone wrote \"The Minimalist Vision of Transcendence\" explicitly \"to sketch a philosophy of religious naturalism\". Use of the term was expanded in the 1990s by Loyal Rue, who was familiar with the term from Brightman's book. Rue used the term in conversations with several people before 1994, and subsequent conversations between Rue and Ursula Goodenough [both of whom were active in IRAS (The Institute on Religion in an Age of Science) led to Goodenough's use in her book \"The Sacred Depths of Nature\" and by Rue in \"Religion is not about God\" and other writings. Since 1994 numerous authors have used the phrase or expressed similar thinking. Examples are Chet Raymo, Stuart Kauffman and Karl E. Peters.\nMike Ignatowski states that \"there were many religious naturalists in the first half of the 20th century and some even before that\" but that \"religious naturalism as a movement didn't really come into its own until about 1990 [and] took a major leap forward in 1998 when Ursula Goodenough published The Sacred Depths of Nature, which is considered one of the founding texts of this movement.\"\n\nBiologist Ursula Goodenough states:\nDonald Crosby's \"Living with Ambiguity\" published in 2008, has, as its first chapter, \"Religion of Nature as a Form of Religious Naturalism\".\n\nLoyal Rue's \"Nature is Enough\" published in 2011, discusses \"Religion Naturalized, Nature Sanctified\" and \"The Promise of Religious Naturalism\".\n\"Religious Naturalism Today: The Rebirth of a Forgotten Alternative\" is a history by Dr. Jerome A. Stone (Dec. 2008 release) that presents this paradigm as a once-forgotten option in religious thinking that is making a rapid revival. It seeks to explore and encourage religious ways of responding to the world on a completely naturalistic basis without a supreme being or ground of being. This book traces this history and analyzes some of the issues dividing religious naturalists. It covers the birth of religious naturalism, from George Santayana to Henry Nelson Wieman and briefly explores religious naturalism in literature and art. Contested issues are discussed including whether nature's power or goodness is the focus of attention and also on the appropriateness of using the term \"God\". The contributions of more than twenty living Religious Naturalists are presented. The last chapter ends the study by exploring what it is like on the inside to live as a religious naturalist.\n\nChet Raymo writes that he had come to the same conclusion as Teilhard de Chardin: \"Grace is everywhere\", and that naturalistic emergence is in everything and far more magical than religion-based miracles. A future humankind religion should be ecumenical, ecological, and embrace the story provided by science as the \"most reliable cosmology\".\n\nAs P. Roger Gillette summarizes:\nDue to the high importance placed on nature, some religious naturalists have a strong sense of stewardship for the Earth. Luther College professor Loyal Rue has written:\nReligious naturalists will be known for their reverence and awe before Nature, their love for Nature and natural forms, their sympathy for all living things, their guilt for enlarging the ecological footprints, their pride in reducing them, their sense of gratitude directed towards the matrix of life, their contempt for those who abstract themselves from natural values, and their solidarity with those who link their self-esteem to sustainable living.\n\nThe literature related to religious naturalism includes many variations in conceptual framing. This reflects individual takes on various issues, to some extent various schools of thought, such as basic naturalism, religious humanism, pantheism, panentheism, and spiritual naturalism that have had time on the conceptual stage, and to some extent differing ways of characterizing Nature.\n\nCurrent discussion often relates to the issue of whether belief in a God or God-language and associated concepts have any place in a framework that treats the physical universe as its essential frame of reference and the methods of science as providing the preeminent means for determining what Nature is. There are at least three varieties of religious naturalism, and three similar but somewhat different ways to categorize them. They are:\n\nThe first category has as many sub-groups as there are distinct definitions for god. Believers in a supernatural entity (transcendent) are by definition not religious naturalists however the matter of a naturalistic concept of God (Immanence) is currently debated. Strong atheists are not considered Religious Naturalists in this differentiation. Some individuals call themselves religious naturalists but refuse to be categorized. The unique theories of religious naturalists Loyal Rue, Donald A. Crosby, Jerome A. Stone, and Ursula Goodenough are discussed by Michael Hogue in his 2010 book\" The Promise of Religious Naturalism\".\n\nGod concepts\n\nStone emphasizes that some Religious Naturalists do not reject the concept of God, but if they use the concept, it involves a radical alteration of the idea such as Gordon Kaufman who defines God as creativity.\n\nIgnatowski divides RN into only two types – theistic and non-theistic.\n\nThere are several principles shared by all the aforementioned varieties of religious naturalism:\n\nThe concept of emergence has grown in popularity with many Religious Naturalists. It helps explain how a complex Universe and life by self-organization have risen out of a multiplicity of relatively simple elements and their interactions. The entire story of emergence is related in the Epic of Evolution – the mythic scientific narrative used to tell the verifiable chronicle of the evolutionary process that is the Universe. Most religious naturalist consider the Epic of Evolution a true story about the historic achievement of Nature. \"The Epic of Evolution is the 14 billion year narrative of cosmic, planetary, life, and cultural evolution—told in sacred ways. Not only does it bridge mainstream science and a diversity of religious traditions; if skillfully told, it makes the science story memorable and deeply meaningful, while enriching one's religious faith or secular outlook.\"\n\nA number of naturalistic writers have used this theme as a topic for their books using such synonyms as: Cosmic Evolution, Everybody's Story, Evolutionary Epic, Evolutionary Universe, Great Story, New Story, Universal Story. \"Epic of evolution' is a term that, within the past three years(1998), has become the theme and title of a number of gatherings. It seems to have been first used by Harvard biologist Edward O. Wilson in 1978. 'The evolutionary epic,' Wilson wrote in his book On Human Nature, 'is probably the best myth we will ever have.' Myth as falsehood was not the usage intended by Wilson in this statement. Rather, myth as a grand narrative that provides a people with a placement in time—a meaningful placement that celebrates extraordinary moments of a shared heritage. The epic of evolution is science translated into meaningful story.\"\"\n\nEvolutionary evangelist minister Michael Dowd uses the term to help present his position that science and religious faith are not mutually exclusive (a premise of religious naturalism). He preaches that the epic of cosmic, biological, and human evolution, revealed by science, is a basis for an inspiring and meaningful view of our place in the universe. Evolution is viewed as a spiritual process that it is not meaningless blind chance. He is joined by a number of other theologians in this position.\n\nSupport for religious naturalism can be seen from two perspectives. One is individuals, in recent times, who have discussed and supported religious naturalism, per se. Another is individuals from earlier times who may not have used or been familiar with the term, \"religious naturalism\", but who had views that are compatible and whose thoughts have contributed to development of religious naturalism.\n\nPeople who have been supportive of and who discussed religious naturalism by name include:\n\n\nPeople from earlier times, who did not use the term, religious naturalism, but who had compatible views, include:\n\nReligious naturalism has been criticized from two perspectives. One is that of traditional Western religion, which disagrees with naturalist disbelief in a personal God. Another is that of naturalists who do not agree that a religious sense can or should be associated with naturalist views. Critics in the first group include supporters of traditional Jewish, Christian, and Islamic religion. Critics in the second group include:\n\nReligious naturalists sometimes use the social practices of traditional religions, including communal gatherings and rituals, to foster a sense of community, and to serve as reinforcement of its participants' efforts to expand the scope of their understandings. Some other groups mainly communicate online. Some known examples of religious naturalists groupings and congregation leaders are:\n\nReligious Naturalism is the focus of classes and conferences at some colleges and theology schools. Articles about religious naturalism have appeared frequently in journals, including Zygon, American Journal of Theology and Philosophy, and the International Journal for Philosophy and Religion.\n\n\n\nReading lists – Evolution Reading Resources, Books of the Epic of Evolution,\nCosmic Evolution\n\n"}
{"id": "408329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408329", "title": "Roderick Chisholm", "text": "Roderick Chisholm\n\nRoderick Milton Chisholm (; November 27, 1916 – January 19, 1999) was an American philosopher known for his work on epistemology, metaphysics, free will, value theory, and the philosophy of perception. He was often called \"the philosopher's philosopher.\"\n\nChisholm graduated from Brown University in 1938 and received his Ph.D. at Harvard University in 1942 under Clarence Irving Lewis and Donald C. Williams. He was drafted into the United States Army in July 1942 and did basic training at Fort McClellan in Alabama. Chisholm administered psychological tests in Boston and New Haven. In 1943 he married Eleanor Parker, whom he had met as an undergraduate at Brown. He spent his academic career at Brown University and served as president of the Metaphysical Society of America in 1973.\n\nChisholm trained many distinguished philosophers, including Selmer Bringsjord, Fred Feldman, Keith Lehrer, James Francis Ross, Richard Taylor, and Dean Zimmerman. He also had a significant influence on many colleagues, including Jaegwon Kim and Ernest Sosa.\n\nChisholm's first major work was \"Perceiving\" (1957). His epistemological views were summed up in a popular text, \"Theory of Knowledge\", which appeared in three very different editions (1966, 1977, and 1989). His masterwork was \"Person and Object\", its title deliberately contrasting with W. V. O. Quine's \"Word and Object\". Chisholm was a metaphysical Platonist in the tradition of Bertrand Russell, and a rationalist in the tradition of Russell, G. E. Moore, and Franz Brentano; he objected to Quine's anti-realism, behaviorism, and relativism.\n\nChisholm defended the possibility of empirical knowledge by appeal to \"a priori\" epistemic principles whose consequences include that it is more reasonable to trust your senses and memory in most situations than to doubt them. His theory of knowledge was also famously \"foundationalist\" in character: all justified beliefs are either \"directly evident\" or supported by chains of justified beliefs that ultimately lead to beliefs that are directly evident. He also defended a controversial theory of volition called \"agent causation\" much like that of Thomas Reid. He argued that free will is incompatible with determinism, and believed that we do act freely; this combination of views is known as libertarianism. He developed a highly original theory of first person thought according to which the things we believe are properties, and believing them is a matter of self-attributing them. (A similar view was developed independently by David Kellogg Lewis, and enjoys considerable popularity, although it is now known mainly through Lewis's work.) Chisholm was also famous for defending the possibility of robust self-knowledge (against the skeptical arguments of David Hume), and an objective ethics of requirements similar to that of W. D. Ross. Chisholm's other books include \"The Problem of the Criterion\", \"Perceiving\", \"The First Person\" and \"A Realist Theory of the Categories\", though his numerous journal articles are probably better known than any of these.\n\nChisholm read widely in the history of philosophy, and frequently referred to the work of Ancient, Medieval, Modern, and even Continental philosophers (although the use he made of this material has sometimes been challenged). Nonetheless, he greatly respected the history of philosophy, in the face of a prevailing indifference among analytic philosophers. Chisholm translated some work by Brentano and by Husserl, and contributed to the post-1970 renaissance of mereology.\n\nChisholm argued for the primacy of the mental over linguistic intentionality, as suggested in the title of \"Person and Object\" (1976) that was deliberately contrasted with Quine's \"Word and Object\" (1960). In this regard, he defended the direct attribution theory of reference in \"The First Person\" (1981). He argues that we refer to things other than ourselves by indirectly attributing properties to them, and that we indirectly or relatively attribute properties to them by directly attributing properties to ourselves. Suppose the following bed scene:\n\nIf I were M and \"U\" were W, then I could directly attribute to myself the property (1) or M-B-W, while indirectly to \"U\" the property (2) or W-B-M, \"thereby referring to \"U\"\". That is, to say (1) is \"relatively\" to say (2), or to explicate M-B-W is to implicate W-B-M.\n\nHis idea of indirect attribution (1981) is relevant to John Searle's \"indirect speech act\" (1975) and Paul Grice's \"implicature\" (1975), in addition to entailment.\n\nStylistically, Chisholm was known for formulating definitions and subsequently revising them in the light of counterexamples. This led to a joke definition of a new verb: \n\nWhile intended as a joke, the term has found some use in serious philosophical papers (for example,).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24050838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24050838", "title": "Romanas Plečkaitis", "text": "Romanas Plečkaitis\n\nRomanas Plečkaitis (August 11, 1933 – August 17, 2009, Vilnius, Lithuania) - Lithuanian philosopher, logic, philosophy, history researcher, Doctor habil, Professor. Romanas Plečkaitis translated the main Immanuel Kant works into Lithuanian language, wrote the history of Lithuanian philosophy and logic issues, published over 300 publications in various academic, has developed 27 PhDs.\n"}
{"id": "13205523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13205523", "title": "Ross Bolleter", "text": "Ross Bolleter\n\nRoss Bolleter (born 1946, Subiaco, Western Australia) is a composer and musician whose work is focused on ruined pianos. His recordings are available on Emanem (London), Pogus (New York), New Albion (San Francisco) and Tall Poppies (Sydney), as well as on his WARPS (World Association for Ruined Piano Studies) label.\n\nBolleter studied the music theory as well as its history and composition at the University of Western Australia between 1964 and 1967. This fired his interest in the music of composers such as Webern, Boulez and Cage. After playing the piano for six years at the Parmelia Hilton, he explored non-conventional timbral and rhythmic possibilities of the prepared piano and released a cassette, \"The Temple of Joyous Bones\", which featured the piano. Bolleter found inspiration in the eighties playing and recording improvised music with flautist Tos Mahoney and double bassist, Ryszard Ratajczak.\n\nOver the past thirty years Bolleter has explored the timbral possibilities of ruined pianos, as quoted: old pianos that have been exposed to the elements of time and weather thus acquiring novel and unexpected musical possibilities. A piano is ruined (rather than neglected or devastated) when it has been abandoned to all weathers and has become a decaying box of unpredictable dongs, tonks and dedoomps. The notes that don’t work are at least as interesting as those that do.\n\nRoss Bolleter has five ruined pianos in his kitchen including the original ruined piano from Nallan Sheep Station, near Cue, 800 km north east of Perth, Western Australia. At Kim Hack’s and Penny Mossops’s olive farm, Wambyn, near York, Western Australia, Kim Hack and Bolleter developed the Ruined Piano Sanctuary, where some forty pianos are ruining in their own ways, and at their own pace, variously under trees, in dams, and on roofs. Bolleter's recent CD \"Frontier Piano,\" which represents the best of his work from 2007–2014, is almost entirely devoted to recordings of these dying pianos. Each piano in decay is a long-running composition. Death comes to every piano, and dying, each sings a different kind of song.\n\nIn 1989 Bolleter set up the Synchronicity Project where he devised a series of intuitive pieces where musicians improvised simultaneously but in different centres in Australia and across the world. In several instances these pieces were set up to cast a net for synchronistic events, especially musical synchronicities. The Synchronicity Project produced a series of radiophonic works. The first of these works was Simulplay 1 (September 1989) had Jim Denley playing flute to a live audience at the B rucknerhaus in the Ars Electronica in Linz, Austria – with Bolleter playing piano and accordion, together with Carol Henning playing plastic trombone, in the ABC radio studios, Perth. The second work, That Time/Simulplay 2 – an intuitive piece for two musicians on opposite sides of a continent, playing at precisely the same time but unable to hear each other, while a radio audience hears both of them – involved Ryszard Ratajczak playing double bass in Studio 210 of ABC FM Sydney with Bolleter playing both pianos in separate recordings in ABC’s Studio 621, Perth. That Time/Simulplay 2 was released on the Pogus label, New York, as part of the album Crow Country in 2000. <Ross Bolleter and Rowan Hammond:“Improvising with synchronistic experiences” in NMA 9, Melbourne, 1991>\n\nAnother radiophonic piece Pocket Sky: a worldwide link up between Jim Denley (Radio ORF Vienna), Stevie Wishart (BBC London), David Moss (SFR Berlin), Jon Rose (ABC Sydney), Simone de Haan (ABC Melbourne), and Bolleter (ABC Perth), took place on 21 October 1991. It was released as the CD Pocket Sky (2004) (WARPS W08).\n\nBolleter’s 1996 piece Left Hand of the Universe CD (WARPS W02)) linked up Michal Murin and other Slovak and Czech musicians in Bratislava, and Stephen Scott and various musicians at Colorado College, without recourse to radio. All the musicians were playing ruined instruments, or were in the process of ruining them. Left Hand of the Universe was released on CD in 1997 as WARPS W02.\n\nBolleter's output also includes two CDs of café music: \"Paradise Café\" and \"Café Sophia\" which feature him playing the accordion, his film music, and his songs. Bolleter's songs, sung by Anthony Cormican, are also featured on their CD \"Songs from the Third Watch\". This CD includes Bolleter's setting of Kenneth Slessor's 1937 poem \"Five Bells\" and Cormican's setting of Billy Strayhorn's \"Lush Life\".\n\nBolleter has released more than twenty CDs, primarily of ruined piano compositions and improvisations. His CD \"Crow Country\", released on the Pogus label as Pogus 7 6034-21021-2 (New York, 2000.), was nominated as one of the 10 best albums of 1999 by \"Cadence Magazine \"(New York) and constitutes the best of his work from 1988 to 1999. \"Secret Sandhills and Satellites\", released on the Emanem label, London, UK (2006), was voted best CD of September 2006 by \"Blow Up\" magazine (Italy), and number two CD of the year by \"dMute\" Magazine (Jazz and Improvised Music), France. \"Secret Sandhills and Satellites \"presents the best of Bolleter's work from 2001 to 2006.\n\nBolleter has performed with a variety of artists including Kavisha Mazzella, Tos Mahoney, Ryszard Ratajczak, Mark Cain, K.K.Null, Jim Denley, Jon Rose, David Moss, Simone de Haan, Michal Murin, Zdenek Plachy, Milan Adanciak, Stephen Scott, David Kotlowy, and Richard Lynn – as well as with bands such as the Black Eyed Susans. From 2000 to 2016, he has worked with producer/composer Anthony Cormican in a collaboration uniting Anthony's work with the music editing program Protools with his own ultra-low tech ruined pianos. Since 2010, Bolleter has collaborated with the visual artist and composer Antoinette Carrier in work which includes her woven pianos as well as her creation of the first urban Piano Sanctuary in Bedford, Western Australia. Carrier's CD \"Nothing as a Thing\" was released on the WARPS label.\n\nBolleter performed as an accordionist/story teller at the Adelaide Festival of 1998, and on ruined piano(s) at the Australian National Academy of Music (ANAM) in \"Piano!\" (2009), in the Ten Days on the Island Festival, where he created the project \"Ruined\" (2008) and in various of Tura New Music’s Totally Huge New Music Festivals under the artistic direction of Tos Mahoney, beginning with the Ruined Piano Convergence of 2005. Bolleter’s work is regularly featured on ABC’s Radio National and ABC FM.\n\nFilm maker Robert Castiglione has made a film of Bolleter’s work with ruined pianos entitled \"Invitation to Ruin.\" It was shown in Tura's Totally Huge New Music Festival of 2015. Andrew Ford, in his book \"In Defence of Classical Music\"<ABC Books><Sydney, 2005> has a chapter on Bolleter's work entitled Things fall apart in the music of Ross Bolleter.\n\nRoss Bolleter is an Australian Zen Buddhist teacher in the Diamond Sangha lineage. He trained with Robert Aitken and John Tarrant from 1982 to 1992. In 1992 he was authorized to teach by John Tarrant, and received transmission from Robert Aitken and John Tarrant in 1997. He teaches primarily in the Zen Group of Western Australia, but has also taught extensively elsewhere in Australia, and in New Zealand. His successors are: Mary Jaksch, Susan Murphy, Bob Joyner, Ian Sweetman, Glenn Wallis, Arthur Wells and Mari Rhydwen. \n\nBolleter's book \"The Five Ranks of Dongshan: Keys to Enlightenment\" was published by Wisdom Publications in 2014. He is currently writing his second Zen book: \"Crows fly backwards: a collection of Western koans, with commentaries.\" These koans have as their themes love, relationships, childbirth, work, and creativity, among others. For a selection of Bolleter’s talks and reviews of his Five Ranks book see http://bolleterzen.com See also http://www.zgwa.org.au for information on the Zen Group of Western Australia, and other Bolleter podcasts. \n\nReferences:\n<Ross Bolleter: The Five Ranks of Dongshan: Keys to Enlightenment (Wisdom Books, Massachusetts, 2014)>\n\nFremantle Press published a volume of Bolleter’s poems, Piano Hill in 2010. His earlier book of poems All the Iron Night was published by Smokebush Press in 2004. His book Average Human Heart, which includes sixty-odd \"left hand\" stories as well as prose poems, was finished in June 2016, as was his most recent volume of poems, Track me Down.\n\nCountry of Here Below, Tall Poppies TP045, Sydney, 1993\n\nW08Ross Bolleter & Rob Muir: The Night Moves on Little Feet (1997) WARPS W03\n\nLeft Hand of the Universe (1997) WARPS W02\n\nCrow Country, Pogus, New York, P21021-2,2000\n\nSatellites (2002) WARPS W06\n\nSecret Sandhills (2002) WARPS W05\n\nRoss Bolleter: Paradise Café (2004) Sunset Ostrich S01\n\nPocket Sky (2004, 1991) WARPS \n\nSecret Sandhills and satellites, Emanem 4128 (London), 2006\n\nRoss Bolleter: Café Sophia (2008) Sunset Ostrich S02\n\nFive by Five (2009) WARPS W11 DVD of 5 pieces in 5.1 Surround.\n\nIntimate Ruins (2009) WARPS W10\n\nNight Kitchen, Emanem 5008, London, 2010\n\nGust (2011) WARPS W15 \n\nPiano Dreaming (2nd edition) (2011) WARPS W12\n\nRoss Bolleter & Anthony Cormican Spring in Iraq (2nd edition) (2011) WARPS W13\n\nSolitary Light (2011) WARPS W14\n\nMusic of Chance WARPS W16 (2011, 2013)\n\nRoss Bolleter and Anthony Cormican Concertino Latino (2012) Sunset Ostrich SO3 \n\nIncluding Concertino Latino by Anthony Cormican & Ross Bolleter, performed by Anthony and Ross & Alone Together by Ross Bolleter, performed by Tos Mahoney & Ross Bolleter\n\nRoss Bolleter and David Kotlowy Vault (2012) (a WARPS MyoOn co-production)\n\nHigh Rise Piano (2013) WARPS W19\n\nRoss Bolleter and Anthony Cormican Songs from the Third Watch (2013) WARPS W18.\n\nFrontier Piano (2014) WARPS W20\n\nMusic of Chance (2nd edition) (2014) WARPS W 21\n\nWhile my coffee cools (2015) – WARPS W22\n\nRoss Bolleter's \"Hymn to Ruin\" on Margaret Leng Tan's She Herself Alone, Mode 221, New York.\n\nRoss Bolleter’s “Nallan Void” on Austral Voices New Albion NA028CD, San Francisco, (1990).\n\n- \"Du piano-épave / The Well Weathered Piano\" (Lenka lente, 2017).\n\n- The Five Ranks of Dongshan: Keys to Enlightenment (Wisdom Books, Massachusetts, 2014).\n\n- The Well Weathered Piano, edition 4, WARPS publications, 2014.\n\n- The Well Weathered Piano (BOOK and CD) WARPS W09\n\n- Piano Hill (Fremantle Press, 2008) Poems inspired by pianos, ruined and otherwise.\n\n- All the Iron Night (Smokebush Press, 2004) Poems of love and death.\n\n- Fostering Creative Improvisation at the Keyboard: A Handbook for Piano Teachers (1979)\n\n</Andrew Ford, In Defence of Classical Music, ABC Books, Sydney, 2005>\n\n"}
{"id": "1621152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1621152", "title": "Spiritual materialism", "text": "Spiritual materialism\n\nSpiritual materialism is a term coined by Chögyam Trungpa in his book \"Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism\". The book is a compendium of his talks explaining Buddhism given while opening the Karma Dzong meditation center in Boulder, Colorado. He expands on the concept in later seminars that became books such as \"Work, Sex, Money\". He uses the term to describe mistakes spiritual seekers commit which turn the pursuit of spirituality into an ego building and confusion creating endeavor, based on the idea that ego development is counter to spiritual progress. \n\nConventionally, it is used to describe capitalist and spiritual narcissism, commercial efforts such as \"new age\" bookstores and wealthy lecturers on spirituality; it might also mean the attempt to build up a list of credentials or accumulate teachings in order to present oneself as a more realized or holy person. Author Jorge Ferrer equates the terms \"Spiritual materialism\" and \"Spiritual Narcissism\", though others draw a distinction, that spiritual narcissism is believing that one deserves love and respect or is better than another because one has accumulated spiritual training instead of the belief that accumulating training will bring an end to suffering.\n\nIn Trungpa's presentation, spiritual materialism can fall into three categories — what he calls the three \"Lords of Materialism\" (Tibetan: \"lalo\" literally \"barbarian\") — in which a form of materialism is misunderstood as bringing long term happiness but instead brings only short term entertainment followed by long term suffering:\n\n\nThe underlying source of these three approaches to finding happiness is based, according to Trungpa, on the mistaken notion that one's ego is inherently existent and a valid point of view. He claims that is incorrect, and therefore the materialistic approaches have an invalid basis to begin with. The message in summary is, \"Don't try to reinforce your ego through material things, belief systems like religion, or certain emotional states of mind.\" In his view, the point of religion is to show you that your ego doesn't really exist inherently. Ego is something you build up to make you think you exist, but it is not necessary and in the long run causes more suffering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29131320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29131320", "title": "The Moral Landscape", "text": "The Moral Landscape\n\nThe Moral Landscape: How Science Can Determine Human Values is a book by Sam Harris published in 2010. In it, he promotes a science of morality and argues that many thinkers have long confused the relationship between morality, facts, and science. He aims to carve a third path between secularists who say morality is subjective (e.g. moral relativists), and religionists who say that morality is given by God and scripture. Harris contends that the only moral framework worth talking about is one where \"morally good\" things pertain to increases in the \"well-being of conscious creatures\". He then argues that, problems with philosophy of science and reason in general notwithstanding, 'moral questions' will have objectively right and wrong answers which are grounded in empirical facts about what causes people to flourish.\n\nChallenging the traditional philosophical notion that humans can never get an 'ought' from an 'is' (the so called Hume's law), Harris argues that moral questions are best pursued using not just philosophy, but the methods of science. Thus, \"science can determine human values\" translates to \"science can tell us which values lead to human flourishing\". It is in this sense that Harris advocates that scientists begin conversations about a normative science of \"morality\".\n\nSam Harris's case starts with two premises: \"(1) some people have better lives than others, and (2) these differences are related, in some lawful and not entirely arbitrary way, to states of the human brain and to states of the world\". The idea is that a person is simply describing material facts (many about their brain) when they describe possible \"better\" and \"worse\" lives for themselves. Granting this, Harris says we must conclude that there are facts about which courses of action will allow one to pursue a better life.\n\nHarris attests to the importance of admitting that such facts exist, because he says this logic applies to groups of individuals as well. He suggests that there are better and worse ways for whole societies to pursue better lives. Just like at the scale of the individual, there may be multiple different paths and \"peaks\" to flourishing for societies - and many more ways to fail.\n\nHarris then makes a case that science could usefully define \"morality\" according to such facts (about people's wellbeing). Often his arguments point out that problems with this scientific definition of morality seem to be problems shared by all science, or reason and words in general. Harris also spends some time describing how science might engage nuances and challenges of identifying the best ways for individuals, and groups of individuals, to improve their lives. Many of these issues are covered below.\n\nAlthough Harris's book discusses the challenges that a science of morality must face, he also mentions that his scientific argument is indeed philosophical. Furthermore, he says that this is the case for almost all scientific investigation. He mentions that modern science amounts to careful practice of accepted first philosophical principles like empiricism and physicalism. He also suggests that science has already very much settled on \"values\" in answering the question \"what should I believe, and why should I believe it?\". Harris says it should not be surprising that normative ethical sciences are, or would be, similarly founded on bedrock assumptions (Basic norms). Harris says:\n\nThe way he thinks science might engage moral issues draws on various philosophical positions like ethical realism (there are facts worth calling 'moral facts'), and ethical naturalism (these facts relate to the physical world). Harris says a science of morality may resemble Utilitarianism, but that the science is, importantly, more open-ended because it involves an evolving definition of well-being. Rather than committing to Reductive materialism, then, Harris recognizes the arguments of revisionists that psychological definitions themselves are contingent on research and discoveries. Harris adds that any science of morality must consider everything from emotions and thoughts to the actual actions and their consequences.\n\nTo Harris, moral propositions, and explicit values in general, are concerned with the flourishing of conscious creatures in a society. He argues that \"Social morality exists to sustain cooperative social relationships, and morality can be objectively evaluated by that standard.\" Harris sees some philosophers' talk of strictly \"private\" morality as akin to unproductive discussion of some private, personal physics. \"If philosophers want to only talk about some bizarrely unnatural private morality, they are just changing the subject...\"\n\nHarris also discusses how interchangeability of perspective might emerge as an important part of moral reasoning. He alludes to an 'unpleasant surprise principle', where someone realizes they have been supporting an ineffective moral norm (e.g. reported cases of Jew-hunting Nazis discovering that they themselves were of Jewish descent).\n\nHarris identifies three projects for science as it relates to morality: (1) explaining why humans do what they do in the name of \"morality\" (e.g. traditional evolutionary psychology), (2) determining which patterns of thought and behaviour humans actually \"should\" follow (i.e. the science of morality), and (3) generally persuading humans to change their ways. Harris says that the first project is focused only on describing what is, whereas projects (2) and (3) are focused on what should and could be, respectively. Harris's point is that this second, prescriptive project should be the focus of a science of morality. He mentions, however, that we should not fear an \"Orwellian future\" with scientists at every door - vital progress in the science of morality could be shared in much the same way as advances in medicine.\n\nHarris says it is important to delineate project (1) from project (2), or else we risk committing a moralistic fallacy. He also highlights the importance of distinguishing between project (2) (asking what is right) from project (3) (trying to change behaviour). He says we must realize that the nuances of human motivation is a challenge in itself; humans often fail to do what they \"ought\" to do even to be successfully selfish - there is every reason to believe that discovering what is best for society would not change every member's habits overnight.\n\nHarris does not imagine that people, even scientists, have always made the right moral decisions—indeed it is precisely his argument that many of them are wrong about moral facts. This is due to the many real challenges of good science in general, including human cognitive limitations and biases (e.g. loss aversion can sway human decisions on important issues like medicine). He mentions the research of Paul Slovic and others to describe just a few of these established mental heuristics that might keep us from reasoning properly. Although he mentions that training might temper the influence of these biases, Harris worries about research showing that incompetence and ignorance in a domain leads to confidence (the Dunning–Kruger effect).\n\nHarris explains that debates and disagreement are a part of the scientific method, and that one side can certainly be wrong. He also explains that all the debates still available to science illustrate how much work could still be done, and how much conversation must continue.\n\nThe book is full of issues that Harris thinks are far from being empirically, morally grey areas. That is, besides saying that 'reasonable' thinking about moral issues amounts to scientific thinking. For instance, he references one poll that found that 36 percent of British Muslims think apostates should be put to death for their unbelief, and he says that these individuals are \"morally confused\". He also suggests it is obvious that loneliness, helplessness, and poverty are \"bad\", but that these are by no means as far as positive psychology has taken, and will take us.\n\nIn one section, called \"The illusion of free will\", Harris argues that there is a wealth of evidence in psychology (e.g. the illusion of introspection) or specifically related to the neuroscience of free will that suggests that metaphysically free will does not exist. This, he thinks, is intuitive; \"trains of thought...convey the apparent reality of choices, freely made. But from a deeper perspective...thoughts simply arise (what else could they do?)\". He adds \"The illusion of free will is itself an illusion\". The implications of free will's non-existence may be a working determinism, and Harris warns us not to confuse this with fatalism.\n\nOne implication of a determined will, Harris says, is that it becomes unreasonable to punish people out of retribution—only behaviour modification and the deterrence of others still seem to be potentially valid reasons to punish. This, especially because behaviour modification is a sort of cure for the evil behaviours; Harris provides a thought experiment: \n\nHarris acknowledges a hierarchy of moral consideration (e.g. humans are more important than bacteria or mice). He says it follows that there could, in principle, be a species compared to which we are relatively unimportant (although he doubts such a species exists).\n\nHarris supports the development of lie-detection technology and believes it would be, on the whole, beneficial for humanity. He also supports the formation of an explicit global civilization because of the potential for stability under a world government.\n\nConsistent with Harris's definition of morality, he says we must ask whether religion increases human flourishing today (regardless of whether it increased it in the distant past). He argues that religions may largely be practiced because they fit well with human cognitive tendencies (e.g. animism).\nIn Harris's view, religion and religious dogma is an impediment to reason, and he discusses the views of Francis Collins as one example.\n\nHarris criticizes the tactics of secularists like Chris Mooney, who argue that science is not fundamentally (and certainly not superficially) in conflict with religion. Harris sees this as a very serious disagreement, that patronizingly attempts to pacify more devout theists. Harris claims that societies can move away from deep dependence on religion just as it has from witchcraft, which he says was once just as deeply ingrained.\n\nIn advance of publication, four personal and professional acquaintances of the author, biologist and science popularizer Richard Dawkins, novelist Ian McEwan, psycholinguist Steven Pinker, and theoretical physicist Lawrence Krauss, offered their praise for the book. They each serve on the Advisory Board of Harris's Project Reason, and their praise appears as blurbs (released by the book's publisher on Harris's website and reproduced on the book's dust jacket).\nDawkins said,\nMcEwan wrote that \"Harris breathes intellectual fire into an ancient debate. Reading this thrilling, audacious book, you feel the ground shifting beneath your feet. Reason has never had a more passionate advocate.\" Pinker said that Harris offers \"a tremendously appealing vision, and one that no thinking person can afford to ignore.\" Krauss opined that Harris \"has the rare ability to frame arguments that are not only stimulating, they are downright nourishing, even if you don't always agree with him!\" Krauss predicted that \"readers are bound to come away with previously firm convictions about the world challenged, and a vital new awareness about the nature and value of science and reason in our lives.\"\n\n\"The Moral Landscape\" reached 9th in the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list for Hardcover Non-Fiction in October 2010.\n\nECSU Associate Professor of Philosophy James W. Diller and Andrew E. Nuzzolilli wrote a generally favorable review in a journal of the Association for Behavior Analysis International:\n\nIn his review for Barnes & Noble, Cal State Associate Professor of Philosophy Troy Jollimore wrote that the book \"has some good, reasonable, and at times persuasive things to say\" to people who are unfamiliar with moral skepticism, but \"has little to say to those people who actually do know what the arguments are, and it will not help others become much better informed.\" Jollimore also worried that Harris wrongly presents complex issues as having simple solutions.\n\nKwame Anthony Appiah wrote in \"The New York Times\" \"when [Harris] stays closest to neuroscience, he says much that is interesting and important...\". He later criticized Harris for failing to articulate \"his central claim\" and to identify how science has \"revealed\" that human well-being has an objective component. Appiah argued that Harris \"ends up endorsing ... something very like utilitarianism, a philosophical position that is now more than two centuries old, ... that faces a battery of familiar problems,\" which Harris merely \"push[es] ... aside.\" Harris responded to Appiah in the afterword of the paperback version, writing that all of Appiah's criticisms had already been addressed in the chapter \"Good and Evil\".\n\nCognitive scientist and anthropologist Scott Atran criticized Harris for failing to engage with the philosophical literature on ethics and the problems in attempting to scientifically quantify human well being, noting that\nCritiquing the book, Kenan Malik wrote:\n\nAmerican novelist Marilynne Robinson, writing in \"The Wall Street Journal\", asserted that Harris fails to \"articulate a positive morality of his own\" but, had he done so, would have found himself in the company of the \"Unitarians, busily cooperating on schemes to enhance the world's well being, as they have been doing for generations.\"\n\nDavid Sexton of the London Evening Standard described Harris's claim to provide a science of morality as“the most extraordinarily overweening claim and evidently flawed. Science does not generate its own moral values; it can be used for good or ill and has been. Harris cannot stand outside culture, and the 'better future' he prophesies is itself a cultural projection. \"\n\nJohn Horgan, journalist for the \"Scientific American\" blog and author of \"The End of Science\", wrote \"Harris further shows his arrogance when he claims that neuroscience, his own field, is best positioned to help us achieve a universal morality. ... Neuroscience can't even tell me how I can know the big, black, hairy thing on my couch is my dog Merlin. And we're going to trust neuroscience to tell us how we should resolve debates over the morality of abortion, euthanasia and armed intervention in other nations' affairs?\"\n\nRussell Blackford said \"The Moral Landscape is an ambitious work that will gladden the hearts, and strengthen the spines, of many secular thinkers\" but that he had \"serious reservations about a good book\".\n\nThe philosopher Simon Blackburn, reviewing the book, described Harris as \"a knockabout atheist\" who \"joins the prodigious ranks of those whose claim to have transcended philosophy is just an instance of their doing it very badly\", pointing out that \"if Bentham's hedonist is in one brain state and Aristotle's active subject is in another, as no doubt they would be, it is a moral, not an empirical, problem to say which is to be preferred.\" And H. Allen Orr in the \"New York Review of Books\" finds that \"Despite Harris's bravado about 'how science can determine human values,' The Moral Landscape delivers nothing of the kind.\"\n\nSteve Isaacson wrote \"Mining The Moral Landscape: Why Science Does Not (and cannot) Determine Human Values\". Isaacson concludes, \"The largest objection to Harris' argument is still Moore's open-question argument. Harris dismisses the argument as a word game easily avoided, but he never explains the game nor how to avoid it. He just ignores it.\"\n\nAt the Moving Naturalism Forward workshop, Nobel Prize winning physicist Steven Weinberg described how in his youth he had been a utilitarian but had been dissuaded of the notion that \"the fundamental principle that guides our actions should be the greatest happiness for the greatest number\" by reading Aldous Hŭley's \"Brave New World\". Weinberg went on to say: \"Now, Sam Harris is aware of this kind of counter argument [to utilitarianism], and says it's not happiness, it's human welfare. Well, as you make things vaguer and vaguer, of course, it becomes harder and harder to say it doesn't fit your own moral feelings, but it also becomes less and less useful as a means of making moral judgements. You could take that to the extreme and make up some nonsense word and say that's the important thing and no-one could refute it but it wouldn't be very helpful. I regard human welfare and the way Sam Harris refers to it as sort of halfway in that direction to absolute nonsense.\"\n\nA few months after the book's release, Sam Harris wrote a follow-up at \"The Huffington Post\" responding to his critics.\n\nOn August 31, 2013, in response to the negative reviews of his book, Harris issued a public challenge for anyone to write an essay of less than 1,000 words rebutting the \"central argument\" of the book. The submissions were vetted by Russell Blackford, with the author of the essay judged best to receive $2,000, or $20,000 if they succeeded in changing Harris's mind. 424 essays were received by the deadline. On March 11, 2014, Blackford announced the winning essay was written by philosophy instructor Ryan Born.\n"}
{"id": "824889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=824889", "title": "The Road to Serfdom", "text": "The Road to Serfdom\n\nThe Road to Serfdom (German: \"Der Weg zur Knechtschaft\") is a book written between 1940 and 1943 by Austrian British economist and philosopher Friedrich Hayek, in which the author \"[warns] of the danger of tyranny that inevitably results from government control of economic decision-making through central planning.\" He further argues that the abandonment of individualism and classical liberalism inevitably leads to a loss of freedom, the creation of an oppressive society, the tyranny of a dictator, and the serfdom of the individual. Hayek challenged the general view among British academics that fascism (including National Socialism) was a capitalist reaction against socialism. He argued that fascism, National Socialism and socialism had common roots in central economic planning and empowering the state over the individual.\n\nSince its publication in 1944, \"The Road to Serfdom\" has been an influential and popular exposition of market libertarianism. It has sold over two million copies.\n\n\"The Road to Serfdom\" was to be the popular edition of the second volume of Hayek's treatise entitled \"The Abuse and Decline of Reason\", and the title was inspired by the writings of the 19th century French classical liberal thinker Alexis de Tocqueville on the \"road to servitude\". The book was first published in Britain by Routledge in March 1944, during World War II, and was quite popular, leading Hayek to call it \"that unobtainable book\", also due in part to wartime paper rationing. It was published in the United States by the University of Chicago Press in September 1944 and achieved great popularity. At the arrangement of editor Max Eastman, the American magazine \"Reader's Digest\" published an abridged version in April 1945, enabling \"The Road to Serfdom\" to reach a wider popular audience beyond academics.\n\n\"The Road to Serfdom\" has had a significant impact on twentieth-century conservative and libertarian economic and political discourse, and is often cited today by commentators.\n\nHayek initially wrote a memo to the director of the London School of Economics, William Beveridge in early 1930s to dispute then-popular claim that fascism represented the dying gasp of a failed capitalist system. Then, the memo grew into a magazine article. During World War II, despite his intention to incorporate parts of that article into a much larger book, Hayek decided to bring it out separately after which he sent the manuscript to three American publishing houses, all of which rejected it.\n\nThe book was originally published for a British audience by Routledge Press in March 1944 in the United Kingdom and then by the University of Chicago Press in September 1944. The U.S. publisher’s expectation was that the book would sell between 900 and 3,000 copies. The initial printing run of 2,000 copies was quickly sold out, and 30,000 copies were sold within six months. , the University of Chicago Press estimated that more than 350,000 copies had been sold.\n\nA 20-page version of the book was then published in the April 1945 issue of \"Reader's Digest\", with a press run of several million copies. A 95-page abridged version was also published in 1945 and 1946. In February 1945, a picture-book version was published in \"Look\" magazine, later made into a pamphlet and distributed by General Motors. The book has been translated into approximately 20 languages and is dedicated \"To the socialists of all parties\". The introduction to the 50th anniversary edition is written by Milton Friedman (another recipient of the Nobel Prize in Economics 1976).\n\nIn 2007, the University of Chicago Press issued a \"Definitive Edition\", Volume 2 in the \"Collected Works of F. A. Hayek\" series. In June 2010, the book achieved new popularity by rising to the top of the Amazon.com bestseller list following extended coverage of the book on \"The Glenn Beck Program\". Since that date, it has sold another 250,000 copies in its print and digital editions.\n\nHayek argues that Western democracies, including the United Kingdom and the United States, have \"progressively abandoned that freedom in economic affairs without which personal and political freedom has never existed in the past\". Society has mistakenly tried to ensure continuing prosperity by centralized planning, which inevitably leads to totalitarianism. \"We have in effect undertaken to dispense with the forces which produced unforeseen results and to replace the impersonal and anonymous mechanism of the market by collective and ‘conscious’ direction of all social forces to deliberately chosen goals.\" Socialism, while presented as a means of assuring equality, does so through \"restraint and servitude\", while \"democracy seeks equality in liberty\". Planning, because it is coercive, is an inferior method of regulation, while the competition of a free market is superior \"because it is the only method by which our activities can be adjusted to each other without coercive or arbitrary intervention of authority\".\n\nCentralized planning is inherently undemocratic in Hayek's view, because it requires \"that the will of a small minority be imposed upon the people\". The power of these minorities to act by taking money or property in pursuit of centralized goals, destroys the Rule of Law and individual freedoms. Where there is centralized planning, \"the individual would more than ever become a mere means, to be used by the authority in the service of such abstractions as the 'social welfare' or the 'good of the community'\". Even the very poor have more personal freedom in an open society than a centrally planned one. \"[W]hile the last resort of a competitive economy is the bailiff, the ultimate sanction of a planned economy is the hangman.\" Socialism is a hypocritical system, because its professed humanitarian goals can only be put into practice by brutal methods \"of which most socialists disapprove\". Such centralized systems also require effective propaganda, so that the people come to believe that the state's goals are theirs.\n\nHayek argues that the roots of National Socialism lie in socialism, and then draws parallels to the thought of British leaders:\nThe increasing veneration for the state, the admiration of power, and of bigness for bigness' sake, the enthusiasm for \"organization\" of everything (we now call it \"planning\") and that \"inability to leave anything to the simple power of organic growth\" ... are all scarcely less marked in England now than they were in Germany.\n\nHayek believed that after World War II, \"wisdom in the management of our economic affairs will be even more important than before and that the fate of our civilization will ultimately depend on how we solve the economic problems we shall then face\". The only chance to build a decent world is \"to improve the general level of wealth\" via the activities of free markets. He saw international organization as involving a further threat to individual freedom. He concluded: \"The guiding principle that a policy of freedom for the individual is the only truly progressive policy remains as true today as it was in the nineteenth century.\"\n\nAlthough Hayek believed that government intervention in markets would lead to a loss of freedom, he recognized a limited role for government to perform tasks of which free markets were not capable:\nThe successful use of competition as the principle of social organization precludes certain types of coercive interference with economic life, but it admits of others which sometimes may very considerably assist its work and even requires certain kinds of government action.\nWhile Hayek is opposed to regulations that restrict the freedom to enter a trade, or to buy and sell at any price, or to control quantities, he acknowledges the utility of regulations that restrict legal methods of production, so long as these are applied equally to everyone and not used as an indirect way of controlling prices or quantities, and without forgetting the cost of such restrictions:\nTo prohibit the use of certain poisonous substances, or to require special precautions in their use, to limit working hours or to require certain sanitary arrangements, is fully compatible with the preservation of competition. The only question here is whether in the particular instance the advantages gained are greater than the social costs they impose.\nHe notes that there are certain areas, such as the environment, where activities that cause damage to third parties (known to economists as \"negative externalities\") cannot effectively be regulated solely by the marketplace:\nNor can certain harmful effects of deforestation, of some methods of farming, or of the smoke and noise of factories, be confined to the owner of the property in question, or to those willing to submit to the damage for an agreed compensation.\nThe government also has a role in preventing fraud:\nEven the most essential prerequisite of its [the market's] proper functioning, the prevention of fraud and deception (including exploitation of ignorance), provides a great and by no means fully accomplished object of legislative activity.\n\nThe government also has a role in creating a safety net:\nThere is no reason why, in a society which has reached the general level of wealth ours has, the first kind of security should not be guaranteed to all without endangering general freedom; that is: some minimum of food, shelter and clothing, sufficient to preserve health. Nor is there any reason why the state should not help to organize a comprehensive system of social insurance in providing for those common hazards of life against which few can make adequate provision.\n\nHe concludes: \"In no system that could be rationally defended would the state just do nothing.\"\n\nWhile Hayek is clear when read in the full, several of his word choices have not aged or traveled well, leading to possible confusion in 21st century America. Hayek offered later clarifications:\n\nSome of Hayek's arguments are timeless (thus continued publication), but his sources and examples are from early to mid 20th century Europe. A thorough knowledge of those times is necessary to fully appreciate the book. Hayek's world included the Great Depression, the rise of autocracies in Russia, Italy and Germany and World War II (during which Hayek was writing). The 2007 edition includes numerous notes connecting the text to history.\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes said of it: \"In my opinion it is a grand book ... Morally and philosophically I find myself in agreement with virtually the whole of it: and not only in agreement with it, but in deeply moved agreement.\" However, Keynes did not think Hayek's philosophy was of \"practical\" use; this was explained later in the same letter, commenting: \"What we need therefore, in my opinion, is not a change in our economic programmes, which would only lead in practice to disillusion with the results of your philosophy; but perhaps even the contrary, namely, an enlargement of them. Your greatest danger ahead is the probable practical failure of the application of your philosophy in the United States.\"\n\nGeorge Orwell responded with both praise and criticism, stating, \"in the negative part of Professor Hayek's thesis there is a great deal of truth. It cannot be said too often – at any rate, it is not being said nearly often enough – that collectivism is not inherently democratic, but, on the contrary, gives to a tyrannical minority such powers as the Spanish Inquisitors never dreamt of.\" Yet he also warned, \"[A] return to 'free' competition means for the great mass of people a tyranny probably worse, because more irresponsible, than that of the state.\"\n\nHayek's work was influential enough to warrant mention during the 1945 British general election, when according to Harold Macmillan, Winston Churchill was \"fortified in his apprehensions [of a Labour government] by reading Professor Hayek's \"The Road to Serfdom\"\" when he warned in an election broadcast in 1945 that a socialist system would \"have to fall back on some form of Gestapo\". The Labour leader Clement Attlee responded in his election broadcast by claiming that what Churchill had said was the \"second-hand version of the academic views of an Austrian professor, Friedrich August von Hayek\". The Conservative Central Office sacrificed 1.5 tons of their precious paper ration allocated for the 1945 election so that more copies of \"The Road to Serfdom\" could be printed, although to no avail, as Labour won a landslide victory.\n\n\"The Road to Serfdom\" was placed fourth on the list of the 100 best non-fiction books of the twentieth century compiled by \"National Review\" magazine. It also made \"#16\" in reader selections of the hundred best non-fiction book of the twentieth century administered by Modern Library.\n\n\"The Road to Serfdom\" appears on Martin Seymour-Smith's list of the \"100 Most Influential Books Ever Written\", whilst it made \"#1\" on Human Events: Top Ten Books Every Republican Congressman Should Read in 2006.\n\nMilton Friedman's assessment:\nI think the Adam Smith role was played in this cycle [i.e. the late twentieth century collapse of socialism in which the idea of free-markets succeeded first, and then special events catalyzed a complete change of socio-political policy in countries around the world] by Friedrich Hayek’s \"The Road to Serfdom\".\n\nMilton Friedman also described \"The Road to Serfdom\" as \"one of the great books of our time.\"\n\nAlan Brinkley's assessment:\nThe publication of two books ... helped to galvanize the concerns that were beginning to emerge among intellectuals (and many others) about the implications of totalitarianism. One was James Burnham’s The Managerial Revolution ... [A second] Friedrich A. Hayek’s \"The Road to Serfdom\" ... was far more controversial – and influential. Even more than Burnham, Hayek forced into public discourse the question of the compatibility of democracy and statism ... In responding to Burnham and Hayek ... liberals [in the statist sense of this term as used by some in the United States] were in fact responding to a powerful strain of Jeffersonian anti-statism in American political culture ... The result was a subtle but important shift in liberal [i.e. American statist] thinking.\nEconomic sociologist Karl Polanyi made a case diametrically opposed to Hayek, arguing that unfettered markets had undermined the social order and that economic breakdown had paved the way for the emergence of dictatorship.\n\nHerman Finer, a Fabian socialist, published a rebuttal in his \"The Road to Reaction\" in 1946. Hayek called Finer's book \"a specimen of abuse and invective which is probably unique in contemporary academic discussion\".\n\nBarbara Wootton wrote \"Freedom under Planning\" after reading an early copy of \"The Road to Serfdom\", provided to her by Hayek. In the introduction to her book, Wootton mentioned \"The Road to Serfdom\" and claimed that \"Much of what I have written is devoted to criticism of the views put forward by Professor Hayek in this and other books.\" The central argument made in \"Freedom under Planning\" is that \"there is nothing in the conscious planning of economic priorities which is inherently incompatible with the freedoms which mean most to the contemporary Englishman or American. Civil liberties are quite unaffected. We can, if we wish, deliberately plan so as to give the fullest possible scope for the pursuit by individuals and social groups of cultural ends which are in no way state-determined.\" Wootton criticizes Hayek for claiming that planning \"must\" lead to oppression, when, in her view, that is merely one \"possibility\" among many. She argues that \"there seems hardly better case for taking for granted that planning will bring the worst to the top than for the opposite assumption that the seats of office will be filled with angels\". Thus, Wootton acknowledges the possibility that planning may exist alongside tyranny, but claims that it is equally possible to combine planning with freedom. She concludes that \"A happy and fruitful marriage between freedom and planning can, in short, be arranged.\"\n\nHowever, Frank Knight, founder of the Chicago school of economics, disputes the claim that \"Freedom under Planning\" contradicts \"The Road to Serfdom\". He wrote in a scholarly review of the Wootton book: \"Let me repeat that the Wootton book is in no logical sense an answer to \"The Road to Serfdom\", whatever may be thought of the cogency of Hayek's argument, or the soundness of his position.\"\n\nIn his review (collected in \"The Present as History\", 1953) Marxist Paul Sweezy joked that Hayek would have you believe that if there was an over-production of baby carriages, the central planners would then order the population to have more babies instead of simply warehousing the temporary excess of carriages and decreasing production for next year. The cybernetic arguments of Stafford Beer in his 1973 CBC Massey Lectures, \"Designing Freedom\" – that intelligent adaptive planning can increase freedom – are of interest in this regard, as is the technical work of Herbert A. Simon and Albert Ando on the dynamics of hierarchical nearly decomposable systems in economics – namely, that everything in such a system is not tightly coupled to everything else.\n\nJeffrey Sachs wrote that the social-welfare states, with high rates of taxation and social outlays, outperform the relatively free-market economies, according to the empirical evidence. William Easterly wrote a rebuttal and Sachs wrote a counter-rebuttal.\n\nEric Zencey wrote that the free market economy Hayek advocated is designed for an infinite planet, and when it runs into physical limits (as any growing system must), the result is a need for centralized planning to mediate the problematic interface of economy and nature. \"Planning is planning, whether it's done to minimize poverty and injustice, as socialists were advocating then, or to preserve the minimum flow of ecosystem services that civilization requires, as we are finding increasingly necessary today.\"\n\nThe work appears on a recommended reading list for the 'libertarian right' hosted on the Political Compass test website.\n\nMises Institute libertarian/anarcho-capitalist economist Walter Block has observed critically that while \"The Road to Serfdom\" makes a strong case against centrally planned economies, it appears only lukewarm in its support of a free market system and \"laissez-faire\" capitalism, with Hayek even going so far as to say that \"probably nothing has done so much harm to the liberal cause as the wooden insistence of some liberals on certain rules of thumb, above all the principle of laissez-faire capitalism\". In the book, Hayek writes that the government has a role to play in the economy through the monetary system (a view that he later withdrew), work-hours regulation, social welfare, and institutions for the flow of proper information. Through analysis of this and many other of Hayek's works, Block asserts that: \"in making the case against socialism, Hayek was led into making all sort of compromises with what otherwise appeared to be his own philosophical perspective – so much so, that if a system was erected on the basis of them, it would not differ too sharply from what this author explicitly opposed\".\n\nGordon Tullock has argued Hayek's analysis predicted totalitarian governments in much of Europe in the late 20th century. He uses Sweden, in which the government at that time controlled 63 percent of GNP, as an example to support his argument that the basic problem with \"The Road to Serfdom\" is \"that it offered predictions which turned out to be false. The steady advance of government in places such as Sweden has not led to any loss of non-economic freedoms.\" While criticizing Hayek, Tullock still praises the classical liberal notion of economic freedom, saying, \"Arguments for political freedom are strong, as are the arguments for economic freedom. We needn’t make one set of arguments depend on the other.\" However, according to Robert Skidelsky, Hayek \"safeguarded himself from such retrospective refutation\". Skidelsky argues that Hayek's argument was contingent, and that, \"By the 1970s there was some evidence of the slippery slope ... and then there was Thatcher. Hayek's warning played a critical part in her determination to 'roll back the state.'\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85762", "title": "Theodor Mommsen", "text": "Theodor Mommsen\n\nChristian Matthias Theodor Mommsen (30 November 1817 – 1 November 1903) was a German classical scholar, historian, jurist, journalist, politician and archaeologist. He was one of the greatest classicists of the 19th century. His work regarding Roman history is still of fundamental importance for contemporary research. He received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1902 for being \"the greatest living master of the art of historical writing, with special reference to his monumental work, \"A History of Rome\"\", after having been nominated by 18 members of the Prussian Academy of Sciences. He was also a prominent German politician, as a member of the Prussian and German parliaments. His works on Roman law and on the law of obligations had a significant impact on the German civil code.\n\nMommsen was born to German parents in Garding in the Duchy of Schleswig in 1817, then ruled by the king of Denmark, and grew up in Bad Oldesloe in Holstein, where his father was a Lutheran minister. He studied mostly at home, though he attended the gymnasium Christianeum in Altona for four years. He studied Greek and Latin and received his diploma in 1837. As he could not afford to study at Göttingen, he enrolled at the University of Kiel.\n\nMommsen studied jurisprudence at Kiel from 1838 to 1843, finishing his studies with the degree of Doctor of Roman Law. During this time he was the roommate of Theodor Storm, who was later to become a renowned poet. Together with Mommsen's brother Tycho, the three friends even published a collection of poems (\"Liederbuch dreier Freunde\"). Thanks to a royal Danish grant, Mommsen was able to visit France and Italy to study preserved classical Roman inscriptions. During the revolution of 1848 he worked as a war correspondent in then-Danish Rendsburg, supporting the German annexation of Schleswig-Holstein and a constitutional reform. Having been forced to leave the country by the Danes, he became a professor of law in the same year at the University of Leipzig. When Mommsen protested against the new constitution of Saxony in 1851, he had to resign. However, the next year he obtained a professorship in Roman law at the University of Zurich and then spent a couple of years in exile. In 1854 he became a professor of law at the University of Breslau where he met Jakob Bernays. Mommsen became a research professor at the Berlin Academy of Sciences in 1857. He later helped to create and manage the German Archaeological Institute in Rome.\n\nIn 1858 Mommsen was appointed a member of the Academy of Sciences in Berlin, and he also became professor of Roman History at the University of Berlin in 1861, where he held lectures up to 1887. Mommsen received high recognition for his academic achievements: foreign membership of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1859, the medal Pour le Mérite in 1868, honorary citizenship of Rome, elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1870, and the Nobel prize for literature in 1902 for his main work \"Römische Geschichte\" (\"Roman History\"). (He is one of the very few non-fiction writers to receive the Nobel prize in literature.)\n\nAt 2 a.m. on 7 July 1880 a fire occurred in the upper floor workroom-library of Mommsen's house at Marchstraße 6 in Berlin. After being burned while attempting to remove valuable papers, he was restrained from returning to the blazing house. Several old manuscripts were burnt to ashes, including \"Manuscript 0.4.36\", which was on loan from the library of Trinity College, Cambridge. There is information that the important Manuscript of Jordanes from Heidelberg University library was burnt. Two other important manuscripts, from Brussels and Halle, were also destroyed.\n\nMommsen was an indefatigable worker who rose at five to do research in his library. People often saw him reading whilst walking in the streets.\n\nMommsen had sixteen children with his wife Marie (daughter of the publisher and editor Karl Reimer of Leipzig). Their oldest daughter Maria married Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff, the great Classics scholar. Their grandson Theodor Ernst Mommsen (1905-1958) became a professor of medieval history in the United States. Two of the great-grandsons, Hans Mommsen and Wolfgang Mommsen, were prominent German historians.\n\nMommsen published over 1,500 works, and effectively established a new framework for the systematic study of Roman history. He pioneered epigraphy, the study of inscriptions in material artifacts. Although the unfinished \"History of Rome\", written early in his career, has long been widely considered as his main work, the work most relevant today is perhaps the \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum\", a collection of Roman inscriptions he contributed to the Berlin Academy.\n\n\n\nA bibliography of over 1,000 of his works is given by Zangemeister in \"Mommsen als Schriftsteller\" (1887; continued by Jacobs, 1905).\n\nWhile he was secretary of the Historical-Philological Class at the Berlin Academy (1874–1895), Mommsen organised countless scientific projects, mostly editions of original sources.\n\nAt the beginning of his career, when he published the inscriptions of the Neapolitan Kingdom (1852), Mommsen already had in mind a collection of all known ancient Latin inscriptions. He received additional impetus and training from Bartolomeo Borghesi of San Marino. The complete \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum\" would consist of sixteen volumes. Fifteen of them appeared in Mommsen's lifetime and he wrote five of them himself. The basic principle of the edition (contrary to previous collections) was the method of autopsy, according to which all copies (i.e., modern transcriptions) of inscriptions were to be checked and compared to the original.\n\nMommsen published the fundamental collections in Roman law: the \"Corpus Iuris Civilis\" and the \"Codex Theodosianus\". Furthermore, he played an important role in the publication of the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\", the edition of the texts of the Church Fathers, the Limes Romanus (Roman frontiers) research and countless other projects.\n\nMommsen was a delegate to the Prussian House of Representatives from 1863–66 and again from 1873–79, and delegate to the Reichstag from 1881–1884, at first for the liberal German Progress Party (\"Deutsche Fortschrittspartei\"), later for the National Liberal Party, and finally for the Secessionists. He was very concerned with questions about academic and educational policies and held national positions. Although he had supported German Unification, he was disappointed with the politics of the German Empire and he was quite pessimistic about its future. Mommsen strongly disagreed with Otto von Bismarck about social policies in 1881, advising collaboration between Liberals and Social Democrats and using such strong language that he narrowly avoided prosecution.\n\nAs a Liberal nationalist, Mommsen favored assimilation of ethnic minorities into German society, not exclusion. In 1879, his colleague Heinrich von Treitschke began a political campaign against Jews (the so-called \"Berliner Antisemitismusstreit\"). Mommsen strongly opposed antisemitism and wrote a harsh pamphlet in which he denounced von Treitschke's views. Mommsen viewed a solution to antisemitism in voluntary cultural assimilation, suggesting that the Jews could follow the example of the people of Schleswig-Holstein, Hanover and other German states, which gave up some of their special customs when integrating in Prussia.\nMommsen was a vehement spokesman for German nationalism, maintaining a militant attitude towards the Slavic nations, to the point of advocating the use of violence against them. In an 1897 letter to the \"Neue Freie Presse\" of Vienna, Mommsen called Czechs \"apostles of barbarism\" and wrote that \"the Czech skull is impervious to reason, but it is susceptible to blows\".\n\nFellow Nobel Laureate (1925) Bernard Shaw cited Mommsen's interpretation of the last First Consul of the Republic, Julius Caesar, as one of the inspirations for his 1898 (1905 on Broadway) play, \"Caesar and Cleopatra\".\n\nNoted naval historian and theorist Alfred Thayer Mahan formulated the thesis for his magnum opus, \"The Influence of Sea Power Upon History\", while reading Mommsen's \"History of Rome\".\n\nThe playwright Heiner Müller wrote a 'performance text' entitled \"Mommsens Block\" (1993), inspired by the publication of Mommsen's fragmentary notes on the later Roman empire and by the East German government's decision to replace a statue of Karl Marx outside the Humboldt University of Berlin with one of Mommsen.\n\nThere is a Gymnasium (academic high school) named for Mommsen in his hometown of Bad Oldesloe, Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. His birthplace Garding in the west of Schleswig styles itself \"Mommsen-Stadt Garding\".\n\n\"One of the highpoints of Mark Twain's European tour of 1892 was a large formal banquet at the University of Berlin... . Mark Twain was an honored guest, seated at the head table with some twenty 'particularly eminent professors'; and it was from this vantage point that he witnessed the following incident... .\" In Twain's own words: \nWhen apparently the last eminent guest had long ago taken his place, again those three bugle-blasts rang out, and once more the swords leaped from their scabbards. Who might this late comer be? Nobody was interested to inquire. Still, indolent eyes were turned toward the distant entrance, and we saw the silken gleam and the lifted sword of a guard of honor plowing through the remote crowds. Then we saw that end of the house rising to its feet; saw it rise abreast the advancing guard all along like a wave. This supreme honor had been offered to no one before. There was an excited whisper at our table—'MOMMSEN!'—and the whole house rose. Rose and shouted and stamped and clapped and banged the beer mugs. Just simply a storm!\n\nThen the little man with his long hair and Emersonian face edged his way past us and took his seat. I could have touched him with my hand—Mommsen!—think of it! ... I would have walked a great many miles to get a sight of him, and here he was, without trouble or tramp or cost of any kind. Here he was clothed in a titanic deceptive modesty which made him look like other men.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58431532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58431532", "title": "Theosophy and Western philosophy", "text": "Theosophy and Western philosophy\n\nModern Theosophy is classified by prominent representatives of Western philosophy as a \"pantheistic philosophical-religious system.\" A Russian philosopher Vladimir Trefilov claimed that Blavatsky's doctrine was formed from the beginning as a synthesis of philosophical views and religious forms of the various ages and peoples with modern scientific ideas. An author of The Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy Michael Wakoff stated that Blavatskian Theosophy was based on Buddhist and Hindu philosophy, and fragments of the Western esotericism with using an \"absolutist metaphysics.\" In \"\" it is said Blavatsky's Theosophy is an attempt to merge into a universal doctrine all religions by revealing their \"common deep essence\" and detection of \"identity meanings of symbols,\" all philosophies (including esoteric), and all sciences (including occult).\n\nA French philosopher René Guénon wrote that \"the theories of the Theosophical Society are so strangely similar to those of Bergson that one may wonder whether they do not both derive from a common source.\" He stated that the central place of the Theosophical doctrine is occupied the \"idea of evolution.\" He then wrote that, according to the Theosophical teaching, there are\n\"seven 'mother-races' succeed one another in the course of a 'world period', that is to say while the 'wave of life' sojourns on a given planet. Each 'race' includes seven 'sub-races', each of which is divided into seven 'branches'. On the other hand, the 'wave of life' successively runs through seven globes in a 'round', and this 'round' is repeated seven times in a same 'planetary chain', after which the 'wave of life' passes to another 'chain', composed likewise of seven planets which will be traversed seven times in their turn. Thus there are seven 'chains' in a 'planetary system', also called an 'enterprise of evolution'; and finally, our solar system is formed of ten 'planetary systems'... We are presently in the fifth 'race' of our 'world period', and in the fourth 'round' of the 'chain' of which the earth forms part and in which it occupies the fourth rank. This 'chain' is also the fourth of our 'planetary system'.\"\nConcerning of the \"so-called highly secret Tibetan texts\" used by Blavatsky in writing her books \"The Secret Doctrine\" and \"The Voice of the Silence,\" Guénon stated that she has had a \"translation of extracts from the Kandjur and Tandjur,\" published in 1836 by Alexander Csoma de Koros.\n\nAn Ukrainian philosopher Julia Shabanova wrote that, in modern interpretations of the Theosophical doctrine, one can come across the concept of \"philosophy of Theosophy.\" In accordance with this logic, Theosophy should contain, in addition to philosophy, other aspects and manifestations. The specificity of Theosophy is \"integrality of the theoretical & practical [approach], metaphysical & existential [points of view], transcendence & immanence, universal & particular, epistemology & ontology.\" The Theosophical object of knowledge, as well as philosophical one, is \"universal, essential, ultimate\" one. But, according to Shabanova, [Western] philosophy, striving for the essential, although it allows in its space irrationality, mysticism, or intuitionism, rationally explains the features of the world picture.\n\nIn Shabanova's opinion, the term \"Theosophy\" is often applied to the Theosophical teachings, which can be considered the \"body of Theosophy.\" It is necessary, she wrote, to distinguish, first, the transcendental basis of Theosophy as its \"universal core,\" secondly, Theosophy as a \"state of consciousness,\" and thirdly, Theosophy as a systematically formulated teaching. If \"Divine wisdom\" is the absolute Truth, then \"the Theosophical doctrine\" reflects the facets of this Truth, represented through \"enlightened consciousness\" and framed in certain knowledge and representations. Thus, the Theosophical teaching is not Truth, but only a \"description\" of it. To be proficient in the Theosophical knowledge does not yet mean reaching the \"Theosophical state of consciousness,\" because the accumulation of knowledge is not sufficient for the attainment of \"Wisdom.\" She claimed that the Theosophical teaching gets meaning through the self-realization of man, which is a \"way of awakening the Divine wisdom.\" Shabanova noted a \"synthetic character\" of the Theosophical teachings, which conditioned by the syncretic nature of the \"transcendental nucleus\" of Theosophy. For this reason, Theosophy can not be expressed in the form of an \"ultimate doctrine,\" and its various interpretations lead to contradictions both within the Theosophical Society and in external assessments.\n\nBlavatsky's definition of Theosophy is quoted in a book by Shabanova:\n\"Theosophy is... the archaic \"Wisdom-Religion,\" the esoteric doctrine once known in every ancient country having claims to civilization. This 'Wisdom' all the old writings show us as an emanation of the divine Principle; and the clear comprehension of it is typified in such names as the Indian Budha, the Babylonian Nebo, the Thoth of Memphis, the Hermes of Greece; in the appellations, also, of some goddesses—Metis, Neitha, Athena, the Gnostic \"Sophia,\" and finally the Vedas, from the word 'to know.' Under this designation, all the ancient philosophers of the East and West, the Hierophants of old Egypt, the Rishis of Aryavarta, the Theodidaktoi of Greece, included all knowledge of things occult and essentially divine.\"\nShabanova wrote that, according to Blavatsky, \"Theosophy in its fruition is spiritual knowledge itself—the very essence of philosophical and theistic enquiry.\" And the genuine Theosophists should have faith in the intangible, omnipotent, omnipresent, and invisible Cause, which \"is All, and Nothing; ubiquitous yet one; the Essence filling, binding, bounding, containing everything; contained in all.\"\n\nIn 1879, the originator of modern Theosophy first presented the statement on \"a single Supreme Essence, Unknown and \"Unknowable\"\" which was the \"central idea of the Eclectic Theosophy.\" This statement was later developed by Blavatsky in the proem to \"The Secret Doctrine\" where it is said that there is \"an Omnipresent, Eternal, Boundless, and Immutable Principle on which all speculation is impossible, since it transcends the power of human conception and could only be dwarfed by any human expression or similitude.\"\n\nA religious studies scholar Arnold Kalnitsky wrote that in Blavatsky's article \"Philosophers and Philosophicules\" it is about \"the issues of philosophy from the Theosophical perspective.\" The article author believes that Theosophy deserves respect as a serious intellectual activity, basing on publicly voiced philosophical principles. According to Kalnitsky, to avoid confusion, she says Theosophy cannot be reduced to a single form of knowledge or intellectual activity, \"Theosophy is certainly not a philosophy, simply because it includes every philosophy as every science and religion.\"\n\nKalnitsky wrote that the article author fully convinced that Theosophy should be \"life blood\" of philosophy, which is defined as \"the science of things divine and human, and the causes in which they are contained.\" Also she believes that only Theosophy has the \"keys\" to these causes. Blavatsky claims that philosophy was \"crystallization point\" of various forms of knowledge, and he quoted in this way:\n\"When applied to god or gods, it became in every country theology; when to material nature, it was called physics and natural history; concerned with man, it appeared as anthropology and psychology; and when raised to the higher regions it becomes known as metaphysics. Such is philosophy—'the science of effects by their causes'—the very spirit of the doctrine of Karma, the most important teaching under various names of every religious philosophy, and a theosophical tenet that belongs to no one religion but explains them all. Philosophy is also called 'the science of things possible, inasmuch as they are possible'.\"\n\nIn Kalnitsky's opinion, in hers article Blavatsky trying apparently to get a \"legitimation\" her Theosophical ideas, arguing that they are not at variance with the views of Hegel on the essence of philosophy:\n\"Hegel regards it as 'the contemplation of the self-development of the Absolute', or in other words as 'the representation of the Idea' (). The whole of the Secret Doctrine—of which the work bearing that name is but an atom—is such a contemplation and record, as far as finite language and limited thought can record the processes of the Infinite.\"\nThus, according to Blavatsky, the Theosophical Secret Doctrine is the most complete and \"mature\" expression \"of philosophical activity\", which is carried out as \"such a contemplation and record\" of the Absolute. Kalnitsky wrote that, turning to the Hegelian theory and trying to find herein \"substantial doctrinal parallels,\" she aims to consolidate her philosophical authority. Hegel's system, like most other idealist trends in philosophy, gave many useful concepts Theosophists, but in most cases, the Theosophical views differed with them due to a number of distinctions in basic positions. In terms of Theosophists, philosophical activity was considered barren without occult and mystical assumptions, and intelligent searches have been justified only if they have provided evidence of their beliefs.\n\nKalnitsky wrote that, defining \"Theosophical speculation\" as an act of true philosophy, Blavatsky states that the commonality of purposes eliminates traditional religious restrictions, \"Thus it becomes evident that Theosophy cannot be a 'religion', still less 'a sect', but it is indeed the quintessence of the highest philosophy in all and every one of its aspects.\" In his opinion, Blavatsky's statement that Theosophy is the \"synthesis\" and something \"big\" compared to any discipline or type of knowledge is inevitably present certain amount of linguistic confusion and contradictions. She claims that her Theosophy should be regarded as \"the quintessence of the highest philosophy in all and every one of its aspects\" and that it \"cannot be a religion.\" Trying to preserve the religious, philosophical and scientific tradition, she insists on prevailing over all synthetic and inclusive status of Theosophy, using a rhetorical technique, when a seems minor compared to the. Thus, Theosophy is not simply a religion, philosophy or science, but the more authoritative and reliable source that covers and synthesizes them. In this case, Theosophy seems \"the quintessence of the highest philosophy.\" He wrote that it should be noted \"continual irritation\" of the article author against any attempt to interpret Theosophy as a privileged religion or sect, which is for her a challenge, requiring immediate transition to protection by the proclamation that Theosophy avoids dogmatism and aims to be inclusive.\n\nAccording to Kalnitsky, Blavatsky was sure that she was able to prove Theosophy can match with any definition of philosophy, and there is a general philosophical principles which the Theosophy does not contradict. She quotes William Hamilton, who said that philosophy is \"a search for principles, sensible and abstract truths,\" as well as the use of reason \"to its legitimate objects.\" She believes that Theosophy is completely legitimate and reliable means of achieving these goals, especially relating to the nature of \"the Ego, or mental Self\" and the relationship between \"the ideal and the real.\" That is why in theory she perceive Theosophy, albeit with some limitations, as the equivalent of philosophy. Blavatsky believes that \"he who studies Theosophy, studies the highest transcendental philosophy.\" In Kalnitsky's opinion, linking the Theosophical system with the tradition of philosophical reasoning, and assuming similar purposes, she trying to achieve for herself greater respectability and authority.\n\nAt the end of hers article Blavatsky resorts to accusatory rhetoric, trying once again to show that Theosophy often is beyond the horizon of the people who might recognize it. Kalnitsky noted, \"She compares her situation to that of Socrates,\" claiming that if his teachings was would rejected because of the charges against him, then knowledge, which was transmitted through Plato and philosophers-neoplatonists would never came up to us. Blavatsky, again turning her attention to modern philosophical mood, contemptuously speaks of those, who engage in unspiritual philosophizing. Speaking about the \"true philosophers,\" she makes the following observation, and Kalnitsky quoted it:\n\"A sceptic can never aspire to that title. He who is capable of imagining the universe with its handmaiden Nature fortuitous, and hatched like the black hen of the fable, out of a self-created egg hanging in space, has neither the power of thinking nor the spiritual faculty of perceiving abstract truths; which power and faculty are the first requisites of a philosophical mind. We see the entire realm of modern Science honeycombed with such materialists, who yet claim to be regarded as philosophers. They either believe in naught as do the Secularists, or doubt according to the manner of the Agnostics.\"\nBlavatsky believed that a priori assumption about the spiritual basis of reality determines the truth of any philosophy. Kalnitsky wrote that in the final part of hers article she \"exalts\" deductive reasoning of Plato, comparing it with inductive reasoning of modern thinkers: \"None of our present Darwinians, and materialists and their admirers, our critics, could have studied philosophy otherwise than very 'superficially'. Hence while Theosophists have a legitimate right to the title of \"philosophers\"—true 'lovers of Wisdom'—their critics and slanderers are at best Philosophicules—the progeny of modern Philosophism.\"\n\nHe called Blavatskian Theosophy a \"theosophism\" () and described it in his book as a \"pseudo-religion.\" He wrote that presented by the Theosophical Society's leaders assertion about the alleged the \"Eastern origin\" of their doctrine was false, and its initial tendency was overtly anti-Christian. According to him, between the doctrine of the Theosophical Society, or, at least, that ones was proclaimed and Theosophy in the true sense of the word, there is absolutely no affinity:\n\"It is after all only a confused mixture of Neoplatonism, Gnosticism, Jewish Kabbalah, Hermeticism, and occultism, the whole of it being gathered as well as can be expressed around two or three ideas which, whether one likes it or not, are of completely modern and purely Western origin.\"\nIn his opinion, the Theosophical conceptions of evolution \"are basically only an absurd caricature of the Hindu theory of cosmic cycles.\" He wrote that Theosophy \"must be placed quite simply, along with spiritism and the different occultist schools to which it is obviously related, in the collection of bizarre productions of the contemporary mentality to which may be given the general name of 'neo-spiritualism.'\"\n\nA Russian philosopher Vladimir Solovyov wrote that the main theories and doctrines of the Theosophical Society \"seem to us very shaky and vague.\" Blavatsky created, he explained, a \"pseudo-Theosophical\" Society, because hers teaching \"is untenable and false.\" Thus, modern Theosophy is a doctrine not only \"anti-religious\" and \"anti-scientific,\" but also \"antiphilosophic.\"\n\nA religious philosopher Sergius Bulgakov stated that [Blavatskian] Theosophy, trying to replace religion with itself, turns into a \"vulgar pseudoscientific mythology.\" In Nikolai Berdyaev's opinion, \"contemporary 'theosophical' movements\" corrupted the beautiful word 'Theosophy' and \"have made us forget\" the existence of a genuine \"Christian theosophy\". He believed that modern Theosophy does not represent a synthesis of religion, philosophy and science, as its adherents say, but there is a \"mixture\" of them, in which there is no real religion, no real philosophy, no real science. Also besides he stated:\n\"It is difficult to find creative thinkers among the Theosophists. The median level of the Theosophical books is not very high. Theosophists fight independent thoughts and are little interested by the multiplicity of creative processes, that occur outside their circle. The seclusive closed-in circle is very characteristic for the Theosophical... setting.\"\nA Russian philosopher , firmly believing philosophical ignorance of Blavatsky, tartly noted:\n\"What kind of audience they [the Theosophists] will snared, you can see from the witty expose the charlatanical tricks of Mme Blavatsky, who began a discuss the philosophy of Plato and talked a lot of all kinds of nonsense. Exposing all this nonsense shows full justice to the characteristics of the logical methods unscrupulous author of \"Isis Unveiled\", who, appears, imagines itself that if she said anything a three-fold, the sentence has to be considered proven.\"\nAn employee of the Institute of philosophy Lydia Fesenkova also severely criticized the occult statements of Blavatsky, which described anthropogenesis, \"From the point of view of science, such beliefs are an explicit profanity and don't have the right to exist in the serious literature.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28114934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28114934", "title": "Xu Fuguan", "text": "Xu Fuguan\n\nHsu Fu-kuan or Xu Fuguan (); 1902/03 – 1982) was a Chinese intellectual and historian who made notable contributions to Confucian studies. He is a leading member of New Confucianism, a philosophical movement initiated by Xu's teacher and friend, Xiong Shili. Other important members of the New Confucian Movement include Xu's two friends and professorial colleagues who also studied with Xiong Shili: Mou Zongsan and Tang Junyi.\n\nXu was born in 1902 or 1903 in a family of farmer scholars in Hubei Province, China. Hsu's father taught at a private school established for village children who showed academic promise and could sit the imperial examinations to become scholar officials. In his teen-age years, Xu made his way to the provincial capital Wuhan which was then the cultural center where foreign influences and trends abounded. Wuhan was also an important staging area for the 1911 Republican Revolution that ended China's 2000-year-old imperial rule. Xu spent fifteen years with the Nationalist army attaining the rank of senior colonel. Trusted by Kuomintang leader Chiang Kai-shek, Xu was sent to Yan'an to discuss Nationalist and Communist cooperation against the invading Japanese. In Yan'an, Xu met senior Communist officials including Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai. After leaving the army, Xu then took various teaching positions, published a scholarly magazine, and then involved himself in politics, working as an advisor to Chiang Kai-shek until 1946. He then devoted himself to \"the study of books\" (editing,academic papers) on the island of Taiwan where the Nationalists had retreated in 1949. Between 1955 and 1969, he taught in the Chinese Department of Tunghai University. Because the university had no philosophy department, Xu welcomed students interested in philosophy into the Chinese Department. Many of these students, such as Tu Weiming, rose to academic prominence. Xu also taught at the \"New Asia Research Institute\" in Hong Kong.\n\nXu was a prolific writer and thinker and his collected works run to several volumes. While in both Taiwan and Hong Kong, Xu wrote frequently for newspapers. Xu was the driving force behind the 1958 manifesto on Chinese Culture that is viewed by many scholars as a crowning achievement of New Confucianism. Regarding this manifesto, Xinzhong Yao states:\n\"The first effort in reviving Confucianism in the 1950s was a document drawn up by Tang Junyi, Mou Zongsan, Zhang Junmai and Xu Fuguan and published on the first day of 1958, entitled 'A Declaration of Chinese Culture to the Scholars of the World' (wei zhongguo wenhua jinggao shijie renshi xuanyan 为中国文化敬告世界人士宣言). The declaration restates the authors' concerns about the direction of human development, the value of Chinese culture, and urges Western and Chinese scholars to understand Chinese culture, claiming that without a proper understanding of Chinese culture, the perception of China will be distorted and the Chinese will have no future.\"\n\nXu died in Hong Kong in 1982.<5>\n\n"}
