{"id": "20212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20212", "title": "Aoraki / Mount Cook", "text": "Aoraki / Mount Cook\n\nAoraki / Mount Cook is the highest mountain in New Zealand. Its height since 2014 is listed as , down from before December 1991, due to a rockslide and subsequent erosion. It lies in the Southern Alps, the mountain range which runs the length of the South Island. A popular tourist destination, it is also a favourite challenge for mountain climbers. Aoraki / Mount Cook consists of three summits, from South to North the Low Peak (), Middle Peak () and High Peak. The summits lie slightly south and east of the main divide of the Southern Alps, with the Tasman Glacier to the east and the Hooker Glacier to the southwest.\n\nThere was a large rock fall in 1991 that turned the summit into a knife-edge ridge and reduced the height of the mountain by an estimated 10 m or so at that time. Aoraki / Mount Cook was measured in 2013 to be 3724 m, which is 30 m down from its pre-1991 rock-fall measurement.\n\nThe mountain is in the Aoraki/Mount Cook National Park, in the Canterbury region. The park was established in 1953 and along with Westland National Park, Mount Aspiring National Park and Fiordland National Park forms one of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The park contains more than 140 peaks standing over and 72 named glaciers, which cover 40 percent of its .\n\nThe peak is located at the northern end of the Kirikirikatata / Mount Cook Range, where it meets with the main spine of the Main Divide, forming a massif between the Hooker Valley to the southwest and the Tasman Valley east of the mountain. These two valleys provide the closest easily accessible view points of Aoraki / Mount Cook. A lookout point at the end of the Hooker Valley Track located only 10 km from the peak has views of the entire mountainside.\n\nThe settlement of Mount Cook Village, also referred to as \"Aoraki / Mount Cook\", is a tourist centre and base camp for the mountain. It is 7 km from the end of the Tasman Glacier and 15 km south of Aoraki / Mount Cook's summit.\n\nOn clear days, Aoraki / Mount Cook is visible from the West Coast as far north as Greymouth, some 150 kilometres away, and from most of State Highway 80 along Lake Pukaki and State Highway 6 south of Lake Pukaki. The near horizontal ridge connecting the mountain's three summits forms a distinctive blocky shape when viewed from an eastern or western direction.\nAnother popular view point is from Lake Matheson on the West Coast, described as the \"view of views\", where on calm days, the peaks of Aoraki / Mount Cook and Mt Tasman are reflected in Lake Matheson.\n\nAoraki / Mount Cook receives substantial orographic precipitation throughout the year, as breezy, moisture-laden westerly winds dominate all year-round, bringing rainclouds from the Tasman Sea with them.\n\nAnnual precipitation around the mountain ranges varies greatly as the local climate is dominated by the eastward movement of depressions and anticyclones from across the Tasman Sea. The Aoraki / Mount Cook massif is a major obstacle to the prevailing westerly winds as they push depressions and associated cold fronts of moist air from the subtropics in the northwest against the mountain range. As the air rises towards the peaks, it expands and cools, and forms clouds. Rain and snowfall are often heaviest around the level and can last for several days if the front is slow-moving.\n\nAs a result of the local weather patterns, the western slopes of Aoraki / Mount Cook can receive well over of annual precipitation, whereas the nearby Mount Cook Village, only south of the mountain receives of rain or snowfall.\nWhile the weather on the eastern side of the mountain is generally better, rain or snow can quickly become widespread on that side as well if the wind turns to the south or southeast. This brings with it a rapid drop in temperature and poor visibility, adding to the difficult climbing conditions on Aoraki / Mount Cook.\n\nTemperatures at the mountain's base in the Hooker Valley around range from to , and generally fall just over 1 °C for every 200 metres of altitude.\n\nFrom about and higher, semi-permanent snow and ice fields exist during winter. Winter and spring are usually less settled than summer and autumn. Anticyclones often bring days of settled weather in summer, or clear cold conditions in winter with severe frost.\n\n' is the name of a person in the traditions of the Ngāi Tahu iwi; an early name for the South Island is ' (Aoraki's Canoe). In the past many believed it meant \"Cloud Piercer\", a romantic rendering of the name's components: ' (world, daytime, cloud, etc.) and ' or ' (day, sky, weather, etc.). Historically, the Māori name has been spelt ', using the standard Māori form.\n\nAoraki / Mount Cook became known to Māori after their arrival in New Zealand some time around the 14th Century CE. The first Europeans who may have seen Aoraki / Mount Cook were members of Abel Tasman's crew, who saw a \"large land uplifted high\" (probably some part of the Southern Alps) while off the west coast of the South Island, just north of present-day Greymouth on 13 December 1642 during Tasman's first Pacific voyage. The English name of \"Mount Cook\" was given to the mountain in 1851 by Captain John Lort Stokes to honour Captain James Cook who surveyed and circumnavigated the islands of New Zealand in 1770. Captain Cook did not sight the mountain during his exploration.\n\nFollowing the settlement between Ngāi Tahu and the Crown in 1998, the name of the mountain was officially changed from Mount Cook to Aoraki / Mount Cook to incorporate its historic Māori name, Aoraki. As part of the settlement, a number of South Island placenames were amended to incorporate their original Māori name. Signifying the importance of Aoraki / Mount Cook, it is the only one of these names where the Māori name precedes the English. Under the settlement the Crown agreed to return title to Aoraki / Mount Cook to Ngāi Tahu, who would then formally gift it back to the nation. Neither transfer has yet occurred; Ngāi Tahu can decide when this will happen.\n\nThe Southern Alps in the South Island were formed by tectonic uplifting and pressure as the Pacific and Indo-Australian Plates collided along the island's western coast. The uplifting continues, raising Aoraki / Mount Cook an average of each year. However, erosive forces are also powerful shapers of the mountains. The severe weather is due to the mountain's jutting into powerful westerly winds of the Roaring Forties which run around approximately 45°S latitude, south of both Africa and Australia. The Southern Alps are the first obstacle the winds encounter after South America, having moved east across the Southern Ocean.\n\nThe height of Aoraki / Mount Cook was established in 1881 by G. J. Roberts (from the west side) and in 1889 by T. N. Brodrick (from the Canterbury side). Their measurements agreed closely at . The height was reduced by when approximately 12–14 million cubic metres of rock and ice fell off the northern peak on 14 December 1991. Two decades of erosion of the ice cap exposed after this collapse reduced the height by another 30 m to 3724 m, as revealed by new GPS data from a University of Otago climbing expedition in November 2013.\n\nMt Cook lies in the centre of the distinctive alpine fault, a 650 km long active fault in the Southern Alps. It is responsible for the uplift of Mt Cook and is believed to move every 100 to 300 years. It last moved in 1717.\n\nThe average annual rainfall in the surrounding lowlands, in particular to the west, is around . This very high rainfall leads to temperate rainforests in these coastal lowlands and a reliable source of snow in the mountains to keep the glaciers flowing. These include the Tasman Glacier to the east of the mountain and the smaller Hooker Glacier immediately to its south.\n\nThe vegetation in the valleys to the east, in particular the Tasman Valley, is noticeably less lush than that on the western slopes of the mountain. Forest would normally grow to about 1,300 m in this area, but a lack of soil due to scree, rock falls and the effects of glaciation prevent this in most localities around the mountain. Snow tussock and other alpine plants cling to as high as 1,900 m.\nAbove the snowline, only lichen can be found amongst the rock, snowfields and ice that dominate the highest parts of Aoraki / Mt Cook.\n\nThe first recorded attempt on the summit was made by the Irishman Rev. William S. Green and the Swiss hotelier Emil Boss and the Swiss mountain guide Ulrich Kaufmann on 2 March 1882 via the Tasman and Linda Glaciers. Mt Cook Guidebook author Hugh Logan believe they came within 50 metres of the summit.\n\nThe first known ascent was on 25 December 1894, when New Zealanders Tom Fyfe, John Michael (Jack) Clarke and George Graham reached the summit via the Hooker Valley and the north ridge. Despite an earlier failed attempt on 20 December, the local climbers were spurred on by their desire for the first ascent to be made by New Zealand mountaineers amid reports that the American mountaineer Edward FitzGerald had his eye on the summit.<ref name=\"Aoraki/Mt Cook\"></ref> The party reached the summit at approximately 1:30pm after bounding up the last leg of the mountain full of excitement at reaching the top. The route they had successfully traversed was not repeated again until the 100th ascent over 60 years later in 1955. Swiss guide Matthias Zurbriggen of FitzGerald's party made the second ascent on 14 March 1895 from the Tasman Glacier side, via the ridge that now bears his name. This is credited as the first solo ascent, although Zurbriggen was accompanied part of the way up the ridge by J Adamson. After Zurbriggen's ascent it was another ten years before the mountain was climbed again. In February 1905 Jack Clarke with four others completed the third ascent following Zurbriggen's route. So Clarke therefore became the first person to do a repeat ascent.\n\nThe first woman to ascend the mountain was Freda Du Faur, an Australian, on 3 December 1910. Local guide George Bannister, a nephew of another guide, Pahikore Te Koeti Turanga of Ngāi Tahu, was the first Māori to successfully scale the peak in 1912.\nA traverse of the three peaks was first accomplished in 1913 by Freda Du Faur and guides Peter and Alex Graham. This 'grand traverse' was repeated in January 1916 by Conrad Kain, guiding the 57-year-old Mrs. Jane Thomson, considered at the time \"a marvellous feat unequalled for daring in the annals of the Southern Alps\".\n\nSir Edmund Hillary made his first ascent in January 1948. In February 1948 with Ruth Adams, Harry Ayres and Mick Sullivan, Hillary made the first ascent of the South Ridge to the Low Peak In order to celebrate the life of Hillary the South Ridge was renamed as Hillary Ridge in August 2011.\n\nAoraki / Mount Cook is a technically challenging mountain with a high level of glaciation. Its level of difficulty is often underestimated and can change dramatically depending on weather, snow and ice conditions. The climb crosses large crevasses, and involves risks of ice and rock falls, avalanches and rapidly changing weather conditions.\n\nSince the early 20th century, around 80 people have died attempting to climb the mountain, making it New Zealand's deadliest peak. The climbing season traditionally runs from November to February, and hardly a season goes by without at least one fatality.\n\nAccording to Māori legend, Aoraki was a young boy who, along with his three brothers, were the sons of Rakinui, the Sky Father. On their voyage around the Papatūānuku, the Earth Mother, their canoe became stranded on a reef and tilted. Aoraki and his brothers climbed onto the top side of their canoe. However, the south wind froze them and turned them to stone. Their canoe became the Te Waka o Aoraki, the South Island, and their prows, the Marlborough Sounds. Aoraki, the tallest, became the highest peak, and his brothers created the Kā Tiritiri o te Moana, the Southern Alps.\n\nNgāi Tahu, the main iwi (tribe) of New Zealand's southern region, consider Aoraki as the most sacred of the ancestors that they had descended from. Aoraki brings the iwi with its sense of community and purpose, and remains the physical form of Aoraki and the link between the worlds of the supernatural and nature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "202898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202898", "title": "Atmosphere of Earth", "text": "Atmosphere of Earth\n\nThe atmosphere of Earth is the layer of gases, commonly known as air, that surrounds the planet Earth and is retained by Earth's gravity. The atmosphere of Earth protects life on Earth by creating pressure allowing for liquid water to exist on the Earth's surface, absorbing ultraviolet solar radiation, warming the surface through heat retention (greenhouse effect), and reducing temperature extremes between day and night (the diurnal temperature variation).\n\nBy volume, dry air contains 78.09% nitrogen, 20.95% oxygen, 0.93% argon, 0.04% carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases. Air also contains a variable amount of water vapor, on average around 1% at sea level, and 0.4% over the entire atmosphere. Air content and atmospheric pressure vary at different layers, and air suitable for use in photosynthesis by terrestrial plants and breathing of terrestrial animals is found only in Earth's troposphere and in artificial atmospheres.\n\nThe atmosphere has a mass of about 5.15 kg, three quarters of which is within about of the surface. The atmosphere becomes thinner and thinner with increasing altitude, with no definite boundary between the atmosphere and outer space. The Kármán line, at , or 1.57% of Earth's radius, is often used as the border between the atmosphere and outer space. Atmospheric effects become noticeable during atmospheric reentry of spacecraft at an altitude of around . Several layers can be distinguished in the atmosphere, based on characteristics such as temperature and composition.\n\nThe study of Earth's atmosphere and its processes is called atmospheric science (aerology). Early pioneers in the field include Léon Teisserenc de Bort and Richard Assmann.\n\nThe three major constituents of Earth's atmosphere are nitrogen, oxygen, and argon. Water vapor accounts for roughly 0.25% of the atmosphere by mass. The concentration of water vapor (a greenhouse gas) varies significantly from around 10 ppm by volume in the coldest portions of the atmosphere to as much as 5% by volume in hot, humid air masses, and concentrations of other atmospheric gases are typically quoted in terms of dry air (without water vapor). The remaining gases are often referred to as trace gases, among which are the greenhouse gases, principally carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone. Filtered air includes trace amounts of many other chemical compounds. Many substances of natural origin may be present in locally and seasonally variable small amounts as aerosols in an unfiltered air sample, including dust of mineral and organic composition, pollen and spores, sea spray, and volcanic ash. Various industrial pollutants also may be present as gases or aerosols, such as chlorine (elemental or in compounds), fluorine compounds and elemental mercury vapor. Sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide and sulfur dioxide (SO) may be derived from natural sources or from industrial air pollution.\n\nThe relative concentration of gases remains constant until about .\n\nIn general, air pressure and density decrease with altitude in the atmosphere. However, temperature has a more complicated profile with altitude, and may remain relatively constant or even increase with altitude in some regions (see the temperature section, below). Because the general pattern of the temperature/altitude profile is constant and measurable by means of instrumented balloon soundings, the temperature behavior provides a useful metric to distinguish atmospheric layers. In this way, Earth's atmosphere can be divided (called atmospheric stratification) into five main layers. Excluding the exosphere, the atmosphere has four primary layers, which are the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. From highest to lowest, the five main layers are:\n\nThe exosphere is the outermost layer of Earth's atmosphere (i.e. the upper limit of the atmosphere). It extends from the exobase, which is located at the top of the thermosphere at an altitude of about 700 km above sea level, to about 10,000 km (6,200 mi; 33,000,000 ft) where it merges into the solar wind.\n\nThis layer is mainly composed of extremely low densities of hydrogen, helium and several heavier molecules including nitrogen, oxygen and carbon dioxide closer to the exobase. The atoms and molecules are so far apart that they can travel hundreds of kilometers without colliding with one another. Thus, the exosphere no longer behaves like a gas, and the particles constantly escape into space. These free-moving particles follow ballistic trajectories and may migrate in and out of the magnetosphere or the solar wind.\n\nThe exosphere is located too far above Earth for any meteorological phenomena to be possible. However, the aurora borealis and aurora australis sometimes occur in the lower part of the exosphere, where they overlap into the thermosphere. The exosphere contains most of the satellites orbiting Earth.\n\nThe thermosphere is the second-highest layer of Earth's atmosphere. It extends from the mesopause (which separates it from the mesosphere) at an altitude of about up to the thermopause at an altitude range of . The height of the thermopause varies considerably due to changes in solar activity. Because the thermopause lies at the lower boundary of the exosphere, it is also referred to as the exobase. The lower part of the thermosphere, from above Earth's surface, contains the ionosphere.\n\nThe temperature of the thermosphere gradually increases with height. Unlike the stratosphere beneath it, wherein a temperature inversion is due to the absorption of radiation by ozone, the inversion in the thermosphere occurs due to the extremely low density of its molecules. The temperature of this layer can rise as high as , though the gas molecules are so far apart that its temperature in the usual sense is not very meaningful. The air is so rarefied that an individual molecule (of oxygen, for example) travels an average of between collisions with other molecules. Although the thermosphere has a high proportion of molecules with high energy, it would not feel hot to a human in direct contact, because its density is too low to conduct a significant amount of energy to or from the skin.\n\nThis layer is completely cloudless and free of water vapor. However, non-hydrometeorological phenomena such as the aurora borealis and aurora australis are occasionally seen in the thermosphere. The International Space Station orbits in this layer, between .\n\nThe mesosphere is the third highest layer of Earth's atmosphere, occupying the region above the stratosphere and below the thermosphere. It extends from the stratopause at an altitude of about to the mesopause at above sea level.\n\nTemperatures drop with increasing altitude to the mesopause that marks the top of this middle layer of the atmosphere. It is the coldest place on Earth and has an average temperature around .\n\nJust below the mesopause, the air is so cold that even the very scarce water vapor at this altitude can be sublimated into polar-mesospheric noctilucent clouds. These are the highest clouds in the atmosphere and may be visible to the naked eye if sunlight reflects off them about an hour or two after sunset or a similar length of time before sunrise. They are most readily visible when the Sun is around 4 to 16 degrees below the horizon. Lightning-induced discharges known as transient luminous events (TLEs) occasionally form in the mesosphere above tropospheric thunderclouds. The mesosphere is also the layer where most meteors burn up upon atmospheric entrance. It is too high above Earth to be accessible to jet-powered aircraft and balloons, and too low to permit orbital spacecraft. The mesosphere is mainly accessed by sounding rockets and rocket-powered aircraft.\n\nThe stratosphere is the second-lowest layer of Earth's atmosphere. It lies above the troposphere and is separated from it by the tropopause. This layer extends from the top of the troposphere at roughly above Earth's surface to the stratopause at an altitude of about .\n\nThe atmospheric pressure at the top of the stratosphere is roughly 1/1000 the pressure at sea level. It contains the ozone layer, which is the part of Earth's atmosphere that contains relatively high concentrations of that gas. The stratosphere defines a layer in which temperatures rise with increasing altitude. This rise in temperature is caused by the absorption of ultraviolet radiation (UV) radiation from the Sun by the ozone layer, which restricts turbulence and mixing. Although the temperature may be at the tropopause, the top of the stratosphere is much warmer, and may be near 0 °C.\n\nThe stratospheric temperature profile creates very stable atmospheric conditions, so the stratosphere lacks the weather-producing air turbulence that is so prevalent in the troposphere. Consequently, the stratosphere is almost completely free of clouds and other forms of weather. However, polar stratospheric or nacreous clouds are occasionally seen in the lower part of this layer of the atmosphere where the air is coldest. The stratosphere is the highest layer that can be accessed by jet-powered aircraft.\n\nThe troposphere is the lowest layer of Earth's atmosphere. It extends from Earth's surface to an average height of about , although this altitude varies from about at the geographic poles to at the Equator, with some variation due to weather. The troposphere is bounded above by the tropopause, a boundary marked in most places by a temperature inversion (i.e. a layer of relatively warm air above a colder one), and in others by a zone which is isothermal with height.\n\nAlthough variations do occur, the temperature usually declines with increasing altitude in the troposphere because the troposphere is mostly heated through energy transfer from the surface. Thus, the lowest part of the troposphere (i.e. Earth's surface) is typically the warmest section of the troposphere. This promotes vertical mixing (hence, the origin of its name in the Greek word τρόπος, \"tropos\", meaning \"turn\"). The troposphere contains roughly 80% of the mass of Earth's atmosphere. The troposphere is denser than all its overlying atmospheric layers because a larger atmospheric weight sits on top of the troposphere and causes it to be most severely compressed. Fifty percent of the total mass of the atmosphere is located in the lower of the troposphere.\n\nNearly all atmospheric water vapor or moisture is found in the troposphere, so it is the layer where most of Earth's weather takes place. It has basically all the weather-associated cloud genus types generated by active wind circulation, although very tall cumulonimbus thunder clouds can penetrate the tropopause from below and rise into the lower part of the stratosphere. Most conventional aviation activity takes place in the troposphere, and it is the only layer that can be accessed by propeller-driven aircraft.\n\nWithin the five principal layers that are largely determined by temperature, several secondary layers may be distinguished by other properties:\n\nThe average temperature of the atmosphere at Earth's surface is or , depending on the reference.\n\nThe average atmospheric pressure at sea level is defined by the International Standard Atmosphere as . This is sometimes referred to as a unit of standard atmospheres (atm). Total atmospheric mass is 5.1480×10 kg (1.135×10 lb), about 2.5% less than would be inferred from the average sea level pressure and Earth's area of 51007.2 megahectares, this portion being displaced by Earth's mountainous terrain. Atmospheric pressure is the total weight of the air above unit area at the point where the pressure is measured. Thus air pressure varies with location and weather.\n\nIf the entire mass of the atmosphere had a uniform density from sea level, it would terminate abruptly at an altitude of . It actually decreases exponentially with altitude, dropping by half every or by a factor of 1/e every , the average scale height of the atmosphere below . However, the atmosphere is more accurately modeled with a customized equation for each layer that takes gradients of temperature, molecular composition, solar radiation and gravity into account.\n\nIn summary, the mass of Earth's atmosphere is distributed approximately as follows:\n\nBy comparison, the summit of Mt. Everest is at ;\ncommercial airliners typically cruise between where the thinner air improves fuel economy; weather balloons reach and above; and the highest X-15 flight in 1963 reached .\n\nEven above the Kármán line, significant atmospheric effects such as auroras still occur. Meteors begin to glow in this region, though the larger ones may not burn up until they penetrate more deeply. The various layers of Earth's ionosphere, important to HF radio propagation, begin below 100 km and extend beyond 500 km. By comparison, the International Space Station and Space Shuttle typically orbit at 350–400 km, within the F-layer of the ionosphere where they encounter enough atmospheric drag to require reboosts every few months. Depending on solar activity, satellites can experience noticeable atmospheric drag at altitudes as high as 700–800 km.\n\nThe division of the atmosphere into layers mostly by reference to temperature is discussed above. Temperature decreases with altitude starting at sea level, but variations in this trend begin above 11 km, where the temperature stabilizes through a large vertical distance through the rest of the troposphere. In the stratosphere, starting above about 20 km, the temperature increases with height, due to heating within the ozone layer caused by capture of significant ultraviolet radiation from the Sun by the dioxygen and ozone gas in this region. Still another region of increasing temperature with altitude occurs at very high altitudes, in the aptly-named thermosphere above 90 km.\n\nBecause in an ideal gas of constant composition the speed of sound depends only on temperature and not on the gas pressure or density, the speed of sound in the atmosphere with altitude takes on the form of the complicated temperature profile (see illustration to the right), and does not mirror altitudinal changes in density or pressure.\n\nThe density of air at sea level is about 1.2 kg/m (1.2 g/L, 0.0012 g/cm). Density is not measured directly but is calculated from measurements of temperature, pressure and humidity using the equation of state for air (a form of the ideal gas law). Atmospheric density decreases as the altitude increases. This variation can be approximately modeled using the barometric formula. More sophisticated models are used to predict orbital decay of satellites.\n\nThe average mass of the atmosphere is about 5 quadrillion (5) tonnes or 1/1,200,000 the mass of Earth. According to the American National Center for Atmospheric Research, \"The total mean mass of the atmosphere is 5.1480 kg with an annual range due to water vapor of 1.2 or 1.5 kg, depending on whether surface pressure or water vapor data are used; somewhat smaller than the previous estimate. The mean mass of water vapor is estimated as 1.27 kg and the dry air mass as 5.1352 ±0.0003 kg.\"\n\nSolar radiation (or sunlight) is the energy Earth receives from the Sun. Earth also emits radiation back into space, but at longer wavelengths that we cannot see. Part of the incoming and emitted radiation is absorbed or reflected by the atmosphere. In May 2017, glints of light, seen as twinkling from an orbiting satellite a million miles away, were found to be reflected light from ice crystals in the atmosphere.\n\nWhen light passes through Earth's atmosphere, photons interact with it through \"scattering\". If the light does not interact with the atmosphere, it is called \"direct radiation\" and is what you see if you were to look directly at the Sun. \"Indirect radiation\" is light that has been scattered in the atmosphere. For example, on an overcast day when you cannot see your shadow there is no direct radiation reaching you, it has all been scattered. As another example, due to a phenomenon called Rayleigh scattering, shorter (blue) wavelengths scatter more easily than longer (red) wavelengths. This is why the sky looks blue; you are seeing scattered blue light. This is also why sunsets are red. Because the Sun is close to the horizon, the Sun's rays pass through more atmosphere than normal to reach your eye. Much of the blue light has been scattered out, leaving the red light in a sunset.\n\nDifferent molecules absorb different wavelengths of radiation. For example, O and O absorb almost all wavelengths shorter than 300 nanometers. Water (HO) absorbs many wavelengths above 700 nm. When a molecule absorbs a photon, it increases the energy of the molecule. This heats the atmosphere, but the atmosphere also cools by emitting radiation, as discussed below.\n\nThe combined absorption spectra of the gases in the atmosphere leave \"windows\" of low opacity, allowing the transmission of only certain bands of light. The optical window runs from around 300 nm (ultraviolet-C) up into the range humans can see, the visible spectrum (commonly called light), at roughly 400–700 nm and continues to the infrared to around 1100 nm. There are also infrared and radio windows that transmit some infrared and radio waves at longer wavelengths. For example, the radio window runs from about one centimeter to about eleven-meter waves.\n\n\"Emission\" is the opposite of absorption, it is when an object emits radiation. Objects tend to emit amounts and wavelengths of radiation depending on their \"black body\" emission curves, therefore hotter objects tend to emit more radiation, with shorter wavelengths. Colder objects emit less radiation, with longer wavelengths. For example, the Sun is approximately , its radiation peaks near 500 nm, and is visible to the human eye. Earth is approximately , so its radiation peaks near 10,000 nm, and is much too long to be visible to humans.\n\nBecause of its temperature, the atmosphere emits infrared radiation. For example, on clear nights Earth's surface cools down faster than on cloudy nights. This is because clouds (HO) are strong absorbers and emitters of infrared radiation. This is also why it becomes colder at night at higher elevations.\n\nThe greenhouse effect is directly related to this absorption and emission effect. Some gases in the atmosphere absorb and emit infrared radiation, but do not interact with sunlight in the visible spectrum. Common examples of these are and HO.\n\nThe refractive index of air is close to, but just greater than 1. Systematic variations in refractive index can lead to the bending of light rays over long optical paths. One example is that, under some circumstances, observers onboard ships can see other vessels just over the horizon because light is refracted in the same direction as the curvature of Earth's surface.\n\nThe refractive index of air depends on temperature, giving rise to refraction effects when the temperature gradient is large. An example of such effects is the mirage.\n\n\"Atmospheric circulation\" is the large-scale movement of air through the troposphere, and the means (with ocean circulation) by which heat is distributed around Earth. The large-scale structure of the atmospheric circulation varies from year to year, but the basic structure remains fairly constant because it is determined by Earth's rotation rate and the difference in solar radiation between the equator and poles.\n\nThe first atmosphere consisted of gases in the solar nebula, primarily hydrogen. There were probably simple hydrides such as those now found in the gas giants (Jupiter and Saturn), notably water vapor, methane and ammonia.\n\nOutgassing from volcanism, supplemented by gases produced during the late heavy bombardment of Earth by huge asteroids, produced the next atmosphere, consisting largely of nitrogen plus carbon dioxide and inert gases. A major part of carbon-dioxide emissions dissolved in water and reacted with metals such as calcium and magnesium during weathering of crustal rocks to form carbonates that were deposited as sediments. Water-related sediments have been found that date from as early as 3.8 billion years ago.\n\nAbout 3.4 billion years ago, nitrogen formed the major part of the then stable \"second atmosphere\". The influence of life has to be taken into account rather soon in the history of the atmosphere, because hints of early life-forms appear as early as 3.5 billion years ago. How Earth at that time maintained a climate warm enough for liquid water and life, if the early Sun put out 30% lower solar radiance than today, is a puzzle known as the \"faint young Sun paradox\".\n\nThe geological record however shows a continuous relatively warm surface during the complete early temperature record of Earth – with the exception of one cold glacial phase about 2.4 billion years ago. In the late Archean Eon an oxygen-containing atmosphere began to develop, apparently produced by photosynthesizing cyanobacteria (see Great Oxygenation Event), which have been found as stromatolite fossils from 2.7 billion years ago. The early basic carbon isotopy (isotope ratio proportions) strongly suggests conditions similar to the current, and that the fundamental features of the carbon cycle became established as early as 4 billion years ago.\n\nAncient sediments in the Gabon dating from between about 2,150 and 2,080 million years ago provide a record of Earth's dynamic oxygenation evolution. These fluctuations in oxygenation were likely driven by the Lomagundi carbon isotope excursion.\n\nThe constant re-arrangement of continents by plate tectonics influences the long-term evolution of the atmosphere by transferring carbon dioxide to and from large continental carbonate stores. Free oxygen did not exist in the atmosphere until about 2.4 billion years ago during the Great Oxygenation Event and its appearance is indicated by the end of the banded iron formations.\n\nBefore this time, any oxygen produced by photosynthesis was consumed by oxidation of reduced materials, notably iron. Molecules of free oxygen did not start to accumulate in the atmosphere until the rate of production of oxygen began to exceed the availability of reducing materials that removed oxygen. This point signifies a shift from a reducing atmosphere to an oxidizing atmosphere. O showed major variations until reaching a steady state of more than 15% by the end of the Precambrian. The following time span from 541 million years ago to the present day is the Phanerozoic Eon, during the earliest period of which, the Cambrian, oxygen-requiring metazoan life forms began to appear.\n\nThe amount of oxygen in the atmosphere has fluctuated over the last 600 million years, reaching a peak of about 30% around 280 million years ago, significantly higher than today's 21%. Two main processes govern changes in the atmosphere: Plants use carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, releasing oxygen. Breakdown of pyrite and volcanic eruptions release sulfur into the atmosphere, which oxidizes and hence reduces the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere. However, volcanic eruptions also release carbon dioxide, which plants can convert to oxygen. The exact cause of the variation of the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere is not known. Periods with much oxygen in the atmosphere are associated with rapid development of animals. Today's atmosphere contains 21% oxygen, which is great enough for this rapid development of animals.\n\n\"Air pollution\" is the introduction into the atmosphere of chemicals, particulate matter or biological materials that cause harm or discomfort to organisms. Stratospheric ozone depletion is caused by air pollution, chiefly from chlorofluorocarbons and other ozone-depleting substances.\n\nThe scientific consensus is that the anthropogenic greenhouse gases currently accumulating in the atmosphere are the main cause of global warming.\n\nOn October 19, 2015 NASA started a website containing daily images of the full sunlit side of Earth on http://epic.gsfc.nasa.gov/. The images are taken from the Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR) and show Earth as it rotates during a day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42536883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42536883", "title": "Azbukovica", "text": "Azbukovica\n\nAzbukovica is a highland area in western Serbia, on the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. River Drina separates Azbukovica from municipalities of Srebrenica and Bratunac. Borders: to the northwest - municipality of Mali Zvornik, to the north - municipality of Krupanj, to the northeastern - municipality of Osečina, to the east - municipality of Valjevo, and to the south - municipality of Bajina Bašta. The highest peak is Tornička Bobija 1272 meters high on the mountain Bobija. Several torrential rivers, flowing into the Drina, intersect Azbukovica. The most famous rivers are Trešnjica and Ljuboviđa. In the late Ottoman period, the region was administratively part of the Sokol \"nahiya\" (Sokolska nahija).\n"}
{"id": "247364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=247364", "title": "Bible Belt", "text": "Bible Belt\n\nThe Bible Belt is an informal region in the Southern United States in which socially conservative evangelical Protestantism plays a strong role in society and politics, and Christian church attendance across the denominations is generally higher than the nation's average. During the colonial period (1607–1776), the South was a stronghold of the Anglican church. Its transition to a stronghold of non-Anglican Protestantism occurred gradually over the next century as a series of religious revival movements, many associated with the Baptist denomination, gained great popularity in the region.\n\nThe region is usually contrasted with the religiously diverse Midwest and Great Lakes, the Mormon Corridor in Utah and southern Idaho, and the relatively secular Western and New England regions of the United States. Whereas the state with the highest percentage of residents identifying as non-religious is the New England state of Vermont at 37%, in the Bible Belt state of Alabama it is just 12%. Tennessee has the highest proportion of Evangelical Protestants, at 52%. The earliest known usage of the term \"Bible Belt\" was by American journalist and social commentator H. L. Mencken, who in 1924 wrote in the \"Chicago Daily Tribune\": \"The old game, I suspect, is beginning to play out in the Bible Belt.\" In 1927, Mencken claimed the term as his invention.\n\nThe name \"Bible Belt\" has been applied historically to the South and parts of the Midwest, but is more commonly identified with the South. In a 1961 study, Wilbur Zelinsky delineated the region as the area in which Protestant denominations, especially Southern Baptist, Methodist, and evangelical, are the predominant religious affiliation. The region thus defined included most of the Southern United States, including most of Texas and Oklahoma, and in the states south of the Ohio River, and extending east to include central West Virginia and Virginia, from the Shenandoah Valley southward. In addition, the Bible Belt covers most of Missouri and Kentucky and southern parts of Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio. On the other hand, areas in the South which are \"not\" considered part of the Bible Belt include heavily Catholic Southern Louisiana, central and southern Florida, which have been settled mainly by immigrants and Americans from elsewhere in the country, and overwhelmingly Hispanic South Texas. A 1978 study by Charles Heatwole identified the Bible Belt as the region dominated by 24 fundamentalist Protestant denominations, corresponding to essentially the same area mapped by Zelinsky.\n\nAccording to Stephen W. Tweedie, an Associate Professor Emeritus in the Department of Geography at Oklahoma State University, the Bible Belt is now viewed in terms of numerical concentration of the audience for religious television. He finds two belts: one more eastern that stretches from Florida, (excluding Miami, Tampa and South Florida), through Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Georgia, North and South Carolina, and into Southern Virginia ; and another concentrated in Texas (excluding El Paso, and South Texas), Arkansas, Louisiana, (excluding New Orleans and Acadiana), Oklahoma, Missouri (excluding St. Louis), Kansas, and Mississippi. \"[H]is research also broke the Bible Belt into two core regions, a western region and an eastern region. Tweedie's western Bible Belt was focused on a core that extended from Little Rock, Arkansas to Tulsa, Oklahoma. His eastern Bible Belt was focused on a core that included the major population centers of Virginia and North Carolina.\nA study was commissioned by the American Bible Society to survey the importance of the Bible in the metropolitan areas of the United States. The report was based on 42,855 interviews conducted between 2005 and 2012. It determined the 10 most \"Bible-minded\" cities were Knoxville, Tennessee; Shreveport, Louisiana; Chattanooga, Tennessee; Birmingham, Alabama; Jackson, Mississippi; Springfield, Missouri; Charlotte, North Carolina;, Lynchburg, Virginia; Huntsville-Decatur, Alabama; and Charleston, West Virginia.\n\nIn addition to the South, there is a smaller Bible Belt in West Michigan, centered around the heavily Dutch-influenced cities of Holland and Grand Rapids. Christian colleges in that region include Calvin College, Hope College, Cornerstone University, Grace Bible College, and Kuyper College. West Michigan is generally fiscally and socially conservative.\n\nSeveral locations are occasionally referred to as \"the Buckle of the Bible Belt\":\n\nThere has been research that links evangelical Protestantism with social conservatism. In 1950, President Harry S. Truman told Catholic leaders he wanted to send an ambassador to the Vatican. Truman said the leading Democrats in Congress approved, but they warned him, \"it would defeat Democratic Senators and Congressmen in the Bible Belt.\"\n\nIn presidential elections, the Bible Belt states of Alabama, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Texas have voted for the Republican candidate in all elections since 1980; Oklahoma has supported the Republican presidential candidate in every election since 1968. Other Bible Belt states have voted for the Republican presidential candidate in the majority of elections since 1980, but have gone to the Democratic candidate either once or twice since then. However, with the exception of Mississippi, historical geographer Barry Vann shows that counties in the upland areas of the Appalachians and the Ozarks have a more conservative voting pattern than the counties located in the coastal plains.\n\nIn Australia, the term \"Bible Belt\" has been used to refer to areas within individual cities, which have a high concentration of Christians, usually centralised around a megachurch, for example:\n\nToowoomba city in Queensland has long been regarded as fertile ground for Christian fundamentalist right-wing movements that adhere to biblical literalism, particularly those within the Pentecostal and charismatic stream of Christianity. This was exemplified by the highly publicised rise and subsequent fall of Howard Carter and the Logos Foundation in the 1980s. The Logos Foundation and other similar movements that have followed it, operate in a controlling, authoritarian and almost cultish manner, contributing to their notoriety. Other similarly conservative Pentecostal churches within the city have, since that time, banded together into a loose federation known as the Toowoomba Christian Leaders' Network. (note - most traditional church denominations have their own, separate ecumenical group) This network views itself as having a divine mission to 'take the city for the Lord' and as such, endorses elements of religious right-wing political advocacy, such as the Australian Christian Lobby(ACL). ACL's current managing director who was raised in the Logos Foundation and is a former Toowoomba City councillor is Lyle Shelton. These church groups are strongly associated with North American trends such as the New Apostolic Reformation, Dominion theology, Five-fold ministry thinking, Kingdom Now theology and revivalism. They support the achievement of a type of theocratic society where conservative and literal interpretations of the bible are the dominant drivers of government, education, the Arts, the media and entertainment. Churches involved in this group currently include the successor organization to the Logos Foundation, the Toowoomba City Church, along with the Range Christian Fellowship, Spring Street Assembly of God, Christian Outreach Centre, Hume Ridge Church of Christ, Revival Ministries of Australia Shiloh Centre, the Edge Christian Centre and many others.\n\nThe province of Saskatchewan has been referred to as Canada's Bible Belt with a significant Anabaptist population and other Protestants.\n\nCensus results show religious belief in the country is more prevalent in the east running from north to south along the border with Russia, particularly in those areas with large populations of Russian Orthodox, Estonian Orthodox and Orthodox Old Believers.\n\nConservative Laestadianism, a Finnish Lutheran revival, is widespread in northern (Northern Ostrobothnia and Lapland (Finland)) and central parts (Northern Savonia) of Finland.\n\nRural portions of Bavaria, approximately stretching from Franconia into Württemberg, constitute Germany's Bible Belt with mostly Catholics, some Lutherans and Reformed Protestants.\nAn area in Erzgebirge in Saxony has been described also as the \"Saxon Bible Belt\" with a notable evangelical Protestant/Christian fundamentalist/free church community, as well as some conservative Lutheran parishes that are opposed to homosexual marriage. Nevertheless, the Evangelical-Lutheran Church of Saxony approved church resolutions regarding the issue regardless of opinions within those parishes.\n\nThe Bible Belt of Norway is located mainly in the western part of the country and contains numerous devout Lutherans.\n\nThe Bible Belt of the Netherlands stretches from Zeeland, through the West-Betuwe and Veluwe, to the northern parts of the province Overijssel. In this region, orthodox Calvinists prevail.\n\nIn New Zealand, Mount Roskill, Auckland, contains the highest number of churches per capita in the country, and is the home of several Christian political candidates. The electorate was one of the last in the country to go \"wet\", in 1999, having formerly been a dry area where the selling of alcohol was prohibited.\n\nAt the 2013 New Zealand census, the Mangere–Otahuhu local board area of Auckland had the highest concentration of Christians in New Zealand, with 67.7 percent of the local board's 71,000 residents identifying as such.\n\nSouth and East parts of Poland are much more religious than North and West. See Poland A and B.\n\nIn the eastern and northern parts of Slovakia, Christians comprise a majority, in some towns and villages almost 100%.\n\nBefore its independence, Soviet Ukraine was known as the Bible Belt of the Soviet Union with a significant proportion of Baptists.\n\nThe area normally called the Bible Belt of Sweden is centered on Jönköping in southern Sweden and contains numerous free churches. There are also numerous conservative Lutheran Laestadians in the Torne valley area in the far north of the country.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, the area in County Antrim stretching from roughly Ballymoney to Larne and centred in the area of Ballymena is often referred to as a Bible Belt. This is because the area is heavily Protestant with a large evangelical community. From 1970 to 2010, the MP for North Antrim was Ian Paisley, a Free Presbyterian minister well known for his theological fundamentalism. The town of Ballymena, the largest town in the constituency, is often referred to as the \"buckle\" of the Bible Belt. In the Republic of Ireland, County Wicklow and western parts of County Cork have the highest population of Protestants.\n\n"}
{"id": "29340953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29340953", "title": "Blue Hole Falls", "text": "Blue Hole Falls\n\nBlue Hole Falls located on High Shoals Creek in the High Shoals Scenic Area of the Chattahoochee National Forest in Towns County, Georgia, United States.\n\nThe falls can be accessed via the High Shoals Trail, a well-maintained 1.2 mile trail to the larger High Shoals Creek Falls downstream. The trailhead is accessed via Indian Grave Gap Road (Forest Service Road 283), a gravel road located about 11.5 miles north of Helen, GA on GA Highway 17/75. The road fords a shallow creek about 100 yards from the entrance at GA Highway 17/75, but the ford does not require a four-wheel drive vehicle to cross under normal conditions.\n\nTo reach Blue Hole Falls requires a one-mile hike downhill via the High Shoals Trail. There are several easily identifiable primitive campsites with fire rings located between the latter half of the trail and High Shoals Creek that offer camping to large and small groups. A small observation deck overlooks the falls as they cascade into Blue Hole. Blue Hole reaches depths of more than ten feet, and is a common destination for swimmers, hikers, and campers during the summer months, when the creek temperature remains in the 40s Fahrenheit.\n"}
{"id": "51273496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51273496", "title": "Boyana, Varna Province", "text": "Boyana, Varna Province\n\nBoyana () is a village in Valchi Dol Municipality, Varna Province, Bulgaria.\n"}
{"id": "145773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145773", "title": "Buoy", "text": "Buoy\n\nA buoy ( or ) is a floating device that can have many purposes. It can be anchored (stationary) or allowed to drift with ocean currents. The word, of Old French or Middle Dutch origin, is in British English most commonly pronounced (identical to boy, as in buoyant). In American English the pronunciation is closer to \"\"boo-ee\".\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41111331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41111331", "title": "David Stoddart (geographer)", "text": "David Stoddart (geographer)\n\nDavid Ross Stoddart, (15 November 1937 – 23 November 2014) was a British physical geographer known for the study of coral reefs and atolls. He was also known for key works on the history and philosophy of geography as an academic discipline. He was a lecturer at the University of Cambridge, and then professor and later emeritus professor at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nStoddart grew up in Stockton-on-Tees, north-east England. His parents both served in France during the First World War, his father with the Royal Flying Corps and his mother as a nurse. His father later became an engineer working in the construction of heavy industrial buildings for Ashmore, Benson, and Pease (later Davy International; now part of Siemens). He had two siblings.\n\nHe married fellow Cambridge geographer June in 1961 and had a daughter, Aldabra (named after the island) and a son, Michael. He collected a very large private library in Berkeley.\n\nStoddart suffered from diabetes and skin cancer in later life. He died in Berkeley, California on 23 November 2014.\n\nStoddart was possibly the first person from his local grammar school (now demolished) to enter the University of Cambridge, in 1956 (a schoolfriend secured a place at Oxford). He studied tropical geography at St.John's College with Alfred Steers from 1956, graduating with a first class degree in 1959. His introduction to coral reefs came on the Cambridge Expedition to British Honduras (Belize), 1959–60. He returned there for further research into corals and the plants of the cays, working for Louisiana State University before and after a major hurricane, tracking its effects on atolls and reefs. He gained a Cambridge PhD for this work in 1964 and was appointed lecturer in Geography at Cambridge, rising through the ranks. He was a fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge from 1966 to 1987. In the mid-1980s he was a Regents Fellow at the Smithsonian.\n\nHe was appointed Chair of Department and Professor of Geography at the University of California, Berkeley in 1988, holding the headship until 1994 when he was forced aside by the Dean. The Department had internal conflicts, and Stoddart had managed these effectively for the first few years, hiring several new staff. Ill health was cited when he retired from Berkeley in 2000.\n\nStoddart studied the geomorphology and ecology of tropical islands and reefs, beginning in Belize, then the Maldives, Seychelles, Solomon Islands, and various locations in the Pacific including the Great Barrier Reef, Aitutaki in the Cook Islands, and in the mid-1970s to the disputed Phoenix Islands. His particular focus was documenting the plant assemblages present on atolls, making links to evolutionary biology. He also studied the evolution of atolls since the Pleistocene.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, accompanying a military expedition, he discovered great biodiversity and documented the huge tortoise populations on the Seychelles island of Aldabra, and the scientific work on its habitat was instrumental in stopping the construction of a British military airfield. The island became a World Heritage Site in 1982. In 1967, a similar expedition went to Diego Garcia, one of the Chagos Islands, prior to its appropriation for a controversial American base.\n\nThe decline in interest and status of the discipline of climatic geomorphology was in part indebted to a 1969 publication of Stoddart. Stoddart criticized climatic geomorphology for applying supposedly \"trivial\" methodologies in establishing landform differences between morphoclimatic zones, being linked to Davisian geomorphology and by allegedly neglecting the fact that physical laws governing processes are the same across the globe.\n\nHe also held an interest in the history of geographic thought, publishing a major book \"On Geography and Its History\" in 1986 and several articles about the discipline, and on the contribution of Darwin's work to understanding the Earth. A parallel program on the morphology and hydrodynamics of salt marshes was largely conducted in the UK. He also studied mangroves and sedimentation.\n\nHe published work in the Smithsonian Institution's \"Atoll Research Bulletin\". He was also one of the founders of the journal \"Progress in Geography\", and the first co-ordinating editor of the journal \"Coral Reefs\". He was a co-founder and first president of the International Society for Reef Studies and helped to establish the quadrennial International Coral Reef Symposium. He was also involved in the establishment of the International Year of the Reef in 1997, and of the Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51779693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51779693", "title": "Deer hay wind", "text": "Deer hay wind\n\nA Deer hay wind, Deer fold or Elrick is an artificial, natural or modified natural feature used in the culling, capture or management of deer in relation to deer parks or natural woodland and open countryside. These structures have existed for many centuries and after falling out of use and their function having been forgotten the more substantial earth or stone examples have attracted names such as \"Roman Trenches\", \"Old Fortifications\", etc. The hinds were the main target of the hunt.\n\nDeer hay winds, folds and elricks were sites where by means of traps wild deer were killed or caught. Evidence that during Saxon times deer hunting was taking place in this fashion survives in a tract written by a 10th-century monk called Ælfric who wrote \"\"I weave myself nets and set them in a suitable place and urge on my dogs so that they chase the wild animals until they come into the nets unawares and are thus ensnared and I kill them in the nets.\"\n\nIn several Saxon documents 'Deer Parks' are recorded to as 'Derhage' or 'Deer-hay'. The Saxon word \"haga\" means a palisade or pale, an enclosure, hedge, or set of nets and is also regarded as the etymological root of the word hay. The term \"haga\" or hay effectively came to mean a deer park. The words \"haga\", \"hage\", \"hege\", \"haia\", etc. all relate to the managing of deer. The Doomsday Book records 31 parks with a few still held by Anglo-Saxons. The 'deer-hays' of Anglo-Saxon times would have been more or less temporary structures although some may have developed into places where deer were kept until such a times as they were needed at which point they would be killed.\n\nImparkment developed from the 12th to the 14th centuries, reaching its peak in the early 1300s at which time around 3,200 parks in England covered up to 2% of the total land area representing about a quarter of the country’s woodland.\n\nThe word 'elerc' or 'erelc' in Gaelic originally meant 'ambush' and later meant a 'deer trap' described as a funnel-like defile, artificial or natural into which deer were herded so that they could be contained and then killed. The personal or place name 'Elrick' is linked to such deer traps. The Gaelic name \"Tainchell\" was the term used for the group of beaters who took part. The Gaelic word 'eilid' means a hind and this association may explain why the word after linguistic evolution in Wigtownshire to 'eileirg' or ' eileirig' with the meaning of 'deer-trap' and the local place-names 'Eldrig', 'Elrig', 'Elrick', etc. derive from this source and some of the defiles used in the hunt can still be identified.\n\nThe capture and movement of deer from the wild or from established deer hays or parks was necessary for establishing new ones and for restocking existing ones to replace animals lost via excessive hunting or disease and at times to introduce new breeding stock to maintain vigour in isolated and inbred populations. Deer might also be managed in terms of castrating stags and selectively culling diseased or elderly animals. In feudal times the monarch would at times make gifts of live deer to those who were in the royal favour to replenish or establish herds, and a system of capturing deer therefore had to exist.\n\nTo create a deer park the person had to own the land, purchase a license from the monarch and have sufficient funds to empark the area, constructing pales and ditches, deer leaps or salters, etc. Some parks even had towers from which the deer could be shot with bows and arrows. \n\nThirty-seven parks or hays are listed in the Domesday Book, and of these nine belonged to the king, five by bishops or monastic houses and twenty three by Norman knights, etc. These hays or parks were isolated in the countryside by physical land divisions such as pales with ditches and served to protect the deer which were to be used for hunting and to help keep out predators whilst also preventing wild deer from eating crops in areas where farming was prevalent. \n\nThe term 'fence month' was applied to the time during fawning and to the annual rut time in the autumn during which the deer were not disturbed and this restricted the period when deer hay winds and elricks could be used. \n\nBoth wattle fencing and nets may have been employed in the 'wynding of the deer hay' and it was also important that the animals could be separated into small groups to reduce the chance of them goring each other by accident. A wide entrance that narrowed down on a gently rising slope would also slow their progress when pursued by hounds and places where people could hide, possibly with hounds until required would be advantageous. The beaters would also separate the stags from the hinds if required.\n\nElricks or deer hay winds were a places in Scotland and England where deer could be channelled and confined in a corral, a practice that ceased to be used in the 18th century although the practice had a brief resurgence in the days of Prince Albert, husband of Queen Victoria. Stone lined pits and boulders once heated in fires have been found in association with elricks which may have been used to cook or render the venison from the newly slaughtered animals. A deer hunt of this type was recorded in the medieval romance \"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight\".\n\nThe native Red Deer (Cervus elaphus) and later introduced Fallow Deer (Dama dama) are suited for enclosure in deer parks however European Roe Deer (Capreolus capreolus) are not as they are aggressive towards other deer. Fallow Deer were introduced by the Normans from Sicily, probably in the early twelfth century.\n\nNear Parkmill Farm on Parkmoor (NS 4425 2693), Tarbolton in South Ayrshire is a complex system of interlinking deep trenches running down to the Water of Fail that were given the name 'Roman Trenches'. The local historian John Smith circa 1895 examined them and also identified what he regarded as an \"Ancient British Stockade\" which had been taken following a siege by Roman troops during which the 'Roman Trenches' were built. Some of the trenches are still around 9 feet deep and are recorded to have once been much deeper. They lie within a few hundred metres from a medieval deer park's boundary.\nIn 1428 it is recorded that John Stewart of Darnley near Glasgow held a deer park with a ditch, bank and pale in the Tarbolton area. Place names such as Parkmoor, Parkmill and Parkhill reflect the existence of a deer park in this area and a park with a building and pale is recorded on the 1654 map of Kyle by the cartographer Blaeu taken from an earlier map by Timothy Pont. Herman Moll's map of 1732 shows at least four deer parks in the vicinity of Parkmoor at Fail Abbey, Park Mill, at Coilsholm Wood and at Barskimming.\n\nOnce known as 'Quillisfield' the estate was given to the monks of Melrose Abbey by Sir John de Graham of Dunduff, Lord of Tarbolton in the 13th century. After the reformation Coilsfield Castle and Estate was acquired by the Cunninghames of Caprington, it was then sold to the Montgomerie family in 1661. In around 1847 the Coilsfield estate was sold to William Orr who had agreed to become the heir of the architect of the house, John Paterson, on the understanding that he would change his name to Paterson but and also buy the Coilsfield estate, renaming it Montgomerie. \n\nThe RCAHMS describes these features on the old Coilsfield Estate as an \"irregular series of artificially-cut ditches run roughly parallel in a SE-NW direction down a gently W-facing and wooded slope at c70m OD. They are closely spaced, mostly V-shaped, and range from 0.5m to 2.0m in depth with little evidence of upcast banking. Some conjoin to form wider channels which fade at the steeper slopes above the water of Fail.\"\n\nTaylor has associated the local place names of Wyndford and Windy Gill at Parkmoor with an early 16th-century reference to the \"winding of the hay yard\" to catch deer at the Nuthill Estate in Fife and has suggested that this made reference to the construction of wattle fencing and nets along the line of the trench banks in preparation for catching deer and that the system of trenches may have been known as a 'wynd'. In Scots language the word 'Wynd' has been used since at least the 13th century to describe frequently winding, narrow streets or alleys which aptly describes the appearance of known deer hay winds and elricks and wynding would be the creation of narrow alleys or entrances. At Parkmoor the deer would naturally enter the Windy Gill to drink and could then be driven by men and hounds towards the deer hay wind. The area that was supposed by John Smith to be an \"Ancient British Stockade\" and the area later used as a bowling green may have been involved in the processing of the deer by comparison with the use of elricks. \n\nOn the Nuthill Estate in Fife (NO234079) are a system of trenches surveyed by Thomas Winter in 1757 and recorded as 'The Trenches are Old Fortifications' or 'Roman Trenches'. This complex system of trenches and banks are located near the old royal hunting park of Falkland. This feature is considered to have been used to capture deer from the Lomond Hills by corralling them and then taking suitable hinds and stags to the nearby royal hunting park. The Falkland Treasurers Accounts of 1505 refer to a payment of 14 shillings to \"John Balfour for ranging through the countryside with bloodhounds to drive the deer to the park\" and for the \"winding of the hay yard to catch them\". Fields or enclosures called ‘Deerends’ are recorded just to the west of the site.\n\nAt Nuthill at least seven trenches can still be discerned with a present-day depth of up to 2 metres and a length of 150 to 200 metres. Some are cut through the bedrock and they curve towards each other towards the west at the bottom of a slope that joins a water course. The glen or gill then acts as a natural channel that runs towards the old Falkland Deer Park and the Lomond Hills lie above. A number of place names suggest the past use of the site such as 'Deerends', 'Greyhound Den' and 'Burn of Deer'. \n\nIndications of similar systems of trenches exist at Chillingham Park in Northumberland and Erringden Park in Yorkshire, additionally \"Montrose's Camp\" near Fyvie Castle has features in common with deer hay winds famously militarily utilised by Montrose. Kington in Worcestershire is recorded to have had a deer hay. \n\nThe as yet unidentified system of trenches and banks at the High Parks in the Cadzow Wood area (NS 7343 5347) of Chatelherault Country Park have a number of characteristics in common with deer hay winds and are located in an area closely associated with the hunting of deer by royalty and others.\n\nSome deer hay winds may have consisted of banks and ditches several kilometres long that were used to direct deer for the purpose of capture such as with the so-called \"Deil's Dyke\" near New Cumnock.\n\nElricks have been identified at Dalkeith and others may have existed at the Glen of the Bar in Galloway, on the Isle of Rum and on the Isle of Jura where in one case stone walls may have channelled the deer into a corral. An unusual 'deer trap' may have been the function of a structure with foot high walls at Wet Sleddle Slack near Shap in Cumbria.\n\nA relevant quote here is that \"Deer hunting has left physical traces on the landscape in the form of banks and dykes used either as park boundaries or for trapping the deer\"\".\n\nThe fourteenth century treatise \"The Book of Hunting\" illustrates a scene \"The Gathering before the Stag Hunt\" which clearly portrays wattle fencing of the kind used in a deer hay wind. \n\nThe town of Hayes in West Middlesex derives its name from the presence of a deer hay in the area.\n\nThe village of Elrick near Aberdeen is named after an elrick and the surname 'Elrick' is common in the area.\n\nIn 1559 seven acres of land near Tarbolton named Longhuntflat was leased by John Stewart and his wife Helen Cunninghame of Halrig.\n\nDeer park (England)\n\n"}
{"id": "2497025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497025", "title": "Flags and coats of arms of the Austrian states", "text": "Flags and coats of arms of the Austrian states\n\nThe flags of the Austrian states show two (or three) stripes in the main colours of the respective arms. These flags are the state flags and are shown with the coats of arms, although it is common for them to be shown without it. Without the coats of arms, some flags are very similar, such as those of Tyrol and Upper Austria (also nearly identical to the flag of Poland). Frequently, the flags are used in vertical variants with or without coat of arms. As well, the coats of arms of the Austrian States are shown.\n\n"}
{"id": "13951777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13951777", "title": "GPS navigation software", "text": "GPS navigation software\n\nGPS navigation software usually falls into one of the following two categories:\n\nA track is a trace of somewhere that you have actually been (often called a \"breadcrumb trail\"). The GPS unit (external or internal) periodically sends details of the location which are recorded by the software, either by taking a reading based on a set time interval, based on a set distance, based on a change in direction by more than a certain angle, or a combination of these. Each point is stored together with its date and time. The resulting track can be displayed as a series of the recorded points or a line connecting them.\n\nRetracing your steps is a simple matter of following the track back to the source.\n\nA route is a preset series of points that make up a set route to follow for your destination. Most software allows the route and the track to be displayed at the same time.\n\nWaypoints are used to mark particular locations, typically used as markers along the \"way\" to somewhere. They are either key entered by users or downloaded from other sources, depending upon the sophistication of the device. Although not linked to tracks or routes, they can be used to simplify the construction of routes, by being able to be re-used. Frequently, waypoints serve a \"safety\" purpose, enabling a route to be taken around obstacles such as shallow water (marine navigation) or streams/cliffs/other hazards which may prevent a safe passage directly from point \"A\" to point \"B\".\n\nSoftware can be used on a laptop computer with an attached GPS receiver. Most commercial software runs on Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux.\nSome software like Waze and Google Maps can also be used on mobile phone operating systems.\n\nThere are several navigation software products available. The primary distinction is whether it is designed for use on land or water.\n\n\n\n\nNavigation software for use on the water has many features in common with land-based GPS navigation software. It can use electronic navigation chart or raster charts, usually provides user ability to plan routes and set waypoints, and may have live GPS tracking capabilities. In addition, marine navigation software often has option to control external autopilot for automated boat navigation. It may incorporate GRIB weather overlay on the chart, Tide predictions and other related information services of additional use to mariners.\n\nThis kind of software usually creates a modern glass cockpit and uses more than just a single GPS sensor to assist the navigation. Such sensors are Attitude and Heading Reference Systems (AHRS) and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) sensors.\n\n"}
{"id": "58930093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58930093", "title": "Geology of Dominica", "text": "Geology of Dominica\n\nThe geology of Dominica is part of the broader Lesser Antilles volcanic island arc, considered a modern example of island arcs that often accreted to continues as exotic terranes. Dominica is located in the center of the chain, with Guadeloupe to the north and Martinique to the south. Pleistocene sediments overlie almost the entire island except for an area of Pliocene exposures in the east. The oldest basement rocks are volcanic basalt deposits from the Eocene. \n"}
{"id": "39099630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39099630", "title": "Geology of Togo", "text": "Geology of Togo\n\nThe geology of Togo is largely of gneisses and granitic rocks of Proterozoic age in the central and southern part of the country. These are overlain in the coastal zone by Cretaceous and Cenozoic sediments. The northern part of the country has a basement of Neoproterozoic metamorphic rocks and Paleoproterozoic granite. The south of the country is covered in sedimentary basins, covering 3,300 km. of land. The West African Craton is made up of crystalline structures, ranging in age from the Neoarchean to the Paleoproterozoic age. The North-Dapaong zone, which is located in the West African Craton, migmatites, gneisses, amphibolites, granodiorites and granites are commonly found. The Neoproterozoic Volta Basin contains sedimentary formations on the Birrimian bedrocks. These sedimentary formations are divided into two groups: an intra-tillite group and a supra-tillite group.\n\nTogo mines gold, diamonds, and phosphate rock, with the largest of these being phosphate rock. The phosphate rock is found Eocene deposits at the coastal basin. In addition to those easy to exploit locations, there are also hardened Neoproterozoic which have not been exploited. The country is Africa's sixth highest producer of phosphate rock. Diamonds and gold are extracted on the artisanal level, and is Africa's sixth largest gold producer. The diamonds are found in alluvial formations in rivers. Exploration activities unveiled the possibility of mining in the future: bauxite, gypsum, iron ore, manganese, marble, rutile, zinc, uranium, and lithic metals. Togo does not have a petroleum sector.\n"}
{"id": "181407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181407", "title": "Groundcover", "text": "Groundcover\n\nGroundcover or ground cover is any plant that grows over an area of ground. Groundcover provides protection of the topsoil from erosion and drought.\n\nIn an ecosystem, the ground cover forms the layer of vegetation below the shrub layer known as the herbaceous layer. The most widespread ground covers are grasses of various types.\n\nIn ecology, groundcover is a difficult subject to address because it is known by several different names and is classified in several different ways. The term groundcover could also be referring to “the herbaceous layer,” “regenerative layer\", “ground flora” or even \"step over.\"\n\nIn agriculture, ground cover refers to anything that lies on top of the soil and protects it from erosion and inhibits weeds. It can be anything from a low layer of grasses to a plastic material. The term \"ground cover\" can also specifically refer to landscaping fabric which is like a breathable tarp that allows water and gas exchange.\n\nIn gardening jargon, however, the term \"groundcover\" refers to plants that are used in place of weeds and improves appearance by concealing bare earth.\n\nThe herbaceous layer is often overlooked in most ecological analyses because it is so common and contributes the smallest amount of the environment’s overall biomass. However, groundcover is crucial to the survival of many environments. The groundcover layer of a forest can contribute up to 90% of the ecosystem’s plant diversity. Additionally, the herbaceous layer ratio of biomass to contribution to plant productivity is disproportionate in many ecosystems. The herbaceous layer can constitute up to 4% of the overall net primary productivity (NPP) of an ecosystem, four times its average biomass.\n\nGroundcover typically reproduces one of five ways:\nLike most foliage, groundcover reacts to both natural and anthropogenic disturbances. These responses can be classified as legacy or active responses. Legacy responses occur during long-term changes to an environment, such as the conversion of a forest to agricultural land and back into forest. Active responses occur with sudden disturbances to the environment, such as tornadoes and forest fires.\n\nGroundcover has also been known to influence the placement and growth of tree seedlings. All tree seedlings must first fall from their origin trees and then permeate the layer created by groundcover in order to reach the soil and germinate. The groundcover filters out a large amount seeds, but lets a smaller portion of seeds pass through and grow. This filtration provides ample amount of space between the seeds for future growth. In some areas, the groundcover can become so dense that no seeds can permeate the surface, and the forest is instead converted to shrubbery. Groundcover also inhibits the amount of light which reaches the floor of an ecosystem. An experiment conducted with the \"rhododendron maximum\" canopy in the southern Appalachian region concluded that 4 to 8% of total sunlight makes it to the herbaceous layer, whereas only about 1 to 2% reaches the ground.\n\nTwo common variations of groundcover are residency and transient species. Residency species typically reach a maximum of 1.5 meters in height, and are therefore permanently classified as herbaceous. Transient species are capable of growing past 1.5 meters, and are therefore only temporarily considered herbaceous. These height differences make ideal environments for a variety of animals, such as the reed warbler, the harvest mouse and the wren.\n\nGroundcover can also be classified in terms of its foliage. Groundcover that keeps its foliage for the entire year is known as evergreen, whereas groundcover that loses its foliage in the winter months is known as deciduous.\n\nFive general types of plants are commonly used as groundcovers in gardening:\n\nOf these types, some of the most common groundcovers include:\n\n\nGroundcover is a popular solution for difficult gardening issues because it is low maintenance, aesthetically pleasing and fast growing, minimizing the spread of weeds. For this reason, ground cover is also a common choice for roof gardens. Roofs take on the brunt of incoming weather, meaning any plants on a roof must be resistant to long-term exposure to sun, overwatering from rain and harsh winds. Groundcover plants are able to sustain themselves in such conditions while also providing lush vegetation to what would otherwise be unused space.\n\n"}
{"id": "4950852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4950852", "title": "Index of modern Egypt-related articles", "text": "Index of modern Egypt-related articles\n\nArticles related to Modern Egypt include:\n\nFirst dynasty of Egypt - \"1st -through- 31st\" - Thirty-first dynasty of Egypt (From former page)\n\nAbaza Family - Abbas I of Egypt - Abbas II of Egypt - Abbasid - Pope Abraham of Alexandria - Abouna Matta El Meskeen - Abu Gorab - Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades - Abukir - Abu Qir - Abu Qir Bay - Abu Simbel - Abusir - Abydos, Egypt - Abyssinian (cat) - Adze - Aegyptus - Africa - African Union - Akhenaten - \"Akhnaten (opera)\" - Al-Ahram - Al 'Arish - Al-Azhar University - Alexander the Great - Alexander Helios - Alexandria - Alexandrian text-type - Mohamed Al-Fayed - Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya - Alhazen - Al-Hibah - Al-Qurn - Amarna - Amarna art - Amarna letters - Ambrose of Alexandria - Amr Diab - Amr Moussa - Anat - Ancient Egypt - Ancient Egyptian medicine - Ancient Near East - Ankh - \"Antony and Cleopatra\" - Anubis - Anwar Sadat - Arab League - Arabic language - Arsinoe, Egypt - Aswan - Aswan Dam - Asyut - Atenism - Athanasius of Alexandria - Avaris\n\nBa - Badarian - Baggush Box - Sidi Barrani - Bas-relief - Battle of Actium - Battle of Alexandria - Battle of Kadesh - Battle of Megiddo (1918) - Battle of Navarino - Battle of the Nile - Bedouin - Beni Hasan - Bent Pyramid - \"Bennu\"->Phoenix (mythology) - Bibliotheca Alexandrina - Bintanath - James Henry Breasted - Brook of Egypt - Bubastis - Budasheer - List of burials in the Valley of the Kings\n\nCaesarion - Cairo - Gates of Cairo - Cairo Geniza - Cairo Metro - Cairo Tower - Camp David Accords (1978) - Canopic jar - Canopus, Egypt - Howard Carter - Cartouche - Cataracts of the Nile - Cave of Artemis - Youssef Chahine - Jean-François Champollion - Chariot - \"Children of Gebelawi\" - Cinema of Egypt - Cleitarchus - Clement of Alexandria - Cleopatra - \"Cleopatra (1934 film)\" - \"Cleopatra (1963 film)\" - \"Cleopatra (1999 film)\" - Codex Sinaiticus - Coffin Texts - Colossi of Memnon - Communications in Egypt - Constantin-François de Chassebœuf, Comte de Volney - Conventional Egyptian chronology - Coptic alphabet,\"script\" - Coptic Christianity - Coptic language - Corniche - Corvée - Culture of Egypt - Cusae - Cyrenaica - Cyril of Alexandria\n\nDB320 - Dahshur - François-Paul Brueys D'Aigalliers - Dakhla Oasis - Dalida - Damnatio memoriae - Darius the Great's Suez Inscriptions - Dedun - Deir el-Medina - Deir el-Bahri - Demographics of Egypt - Demotic - Demotist - Divine Adoratrice of Amun - Dodi Al-Fayed - Bernardino Drovetti\n\nEarly Dynastic Period of Egypt - Eastern Berber languages - Georg Ebers - Ebers papyrus - Economy of Egypt - Edfu - Edwin Smith papyrus - Egypt - Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty - \"The Egyptian\" - Egyptian calendar - Egyptian Campaign - Egyptian chronology - Egyptian Civil Code - Egyptian hieroglyph - Egyptian Islamic Jihad - Egyptian language - Egyptian languages - Egyptian mathematics - Egyptian Museum - Egyptian mythology - Egyptian pyramids - Egyptians - Egyptian Sand Sea - Egyptian soul - Egyptologist - Egyptology - Egypt under Muhammad Ali and his successors - Eileithyiaspolis - El Alamein - Mohamed ElBaradei - El-Lahun - El-Lisht - El-Mahalla El-Kubra - Elephantine - Elephantine papyri - Embalming - Ennead - Eratosthenes - Esna - Euclid - Exodus - Exodus Decoded\n\nFaience - Farouk of Egypt - Fatimid - Al Fayyum - Fayum - Fedayeen - Bonner Fellers - First Battle of El Alamein - First dynasty of Egypt - First Intermediate Period of Egypt - Fivefold Titulary - Foreign relations of Egypt - Fostat - Four sons of Horus - Fuad I of Egypt - Fuad II of Egypt\n\nGama'at Islamiya - Gamal Abdel Nasser - Gates of Cairo - Geography of Egypt - George Syncellus - Gerzeh - Giza - Giza pyramid complex - God's Wife of Amun - Governorates of Egypt - \"Great Hymn to the Aten\" - Great Pyramid of Giza - Great Sphinx of Giza\n\nMamdouh Habib - (Queen) Hatshepsut of Egypt - Zahi Hawass - Heb Sed - Heliopolis (ancient and modern) - Herakleopolis Magna - \"Heron\"->Bennu->Phoenix (mythology) - Hierakonpolis - Hieratic,\"script\" - Egyptian hieroglyph - History of Egypt - \"1\" History of ancient Egypt - \"2\" Ptolemaic Egypt - \"3\" Aegyptus (Roman province) - \"4\" History of Egypt Under Achaemenid Persian Domination - \"5\" History of Arab Egypt - \"6\" History of Ottoman Egypt - \"8\" History of Modern Egypt - Suad Husni - Hyksos - Haytham Abbas\n\nSalima Ikram - Imhotep - Ipuwer papyrus - Irsu - Islamic Cairo\n\nJebel Barkal or Gebel Barkal - Junit\n\nKarnak - Khafre's Pyramid - Kharga Oasis - Kohl - Kom Ombo - Temple of Kom Ombo - Umm Kulthum - Kush - KV (Egypt) - KV1 - KV3 - KV4 - KV5 - KV6 - KV9 - KV14 - KV17 - KV20 - KV34 - KV35 - KV39 - KV42 - KV43 - KV46 - KV55 - KV60 - KV62\n\nLake Mareotis - Lake Nasser - Miles Lampson - Land of Goshen - Land of Punt - Late Period of Ancient Egypt - Leonardo da Vinci Art Institute - Karl Richard Lepsius - Levant - Library of Alexandria - Libyan Desert - List of Ancient Egyptian sites - List of cities in Egypt - List of Coptic Popes - List of Egyptians - List of Egyptian dynasties - List of Greek Orthodox Patriarchs of Alexandria - List of pharaohs - List of solar deities - Long Range Desert Group - \" Lord Carnarvon \" - \"Blue\" Lotus - \"White\" Lotus=Tiger Lotus - Luxor - Luxor Museum - Luxor Temple\n\nNaguib Mahfouz - Étienne-Louis Malus - Mameluks - Manetho -Auguste Mariette - Mark Antony - Mark the Evangelist - Marsa Matruh - Gaston Maspero - Mastaba - Matheos I of Alexandria - Medinet Habu (location) - Medinet Habu (temple) - Mediterranean Sea - Meidum - Memphis, Egypt - Mendes - Menkaure's Pyramid - Merneptah Stele - Mersa Matruh - Meshwesh - Milan Papyrus - Military history of Egypt during World War II - Military of Egypt - Mizraim - Mnewer\"Mnevis\" - Muhammad Abdul Moneim - Mortuary Temple of Amenhotep III - Moses - Mount Sinai - Gamal Mubarak - Hosni Mubarak - Muhammad Ahmad - Mummy - Mummification Museum - Egyptian Museum - Museum of Islamic Ceramics - Luxor Museum - Muslim Brotherhood\n\nNabta Playa - Nag Hammadi - Nag Hammadi library - Muhammad Naguib - Mustafa an-Nahhas Pasha - Napata - Naqada - Gamal Abdel Nasser - Necropolis - Nile - Nile crocodile - Nile Delta - Nile Perch - Nile Quay Texts - Nilo-Saharan languages - Nilometer - Nomarch - Nome (Egypt) - Nubia - Nubian languages - Nymphaea =\"Lotus\" - \"Egyptian Blue 'Lotus'\"=Nymphaea caerulea - \"Egyptian White\" = Tiger Lotus= Nymphaea lotus\n\nObelisk - Richard O'Connor - Operation Compass - Origen - Ostracon - Oxyrhynchus - Oxyrhynchus Gospels - \"Ozymandias\"\n\nPachomius - Palestine (region) - Papyrus - Papyrus Harris I - Papyrus of Ani - Papyrus P52 - Passage of Red Sea - Pelusium - Patriarch Peter of Alexandria (disambiguation) - Pope Peter of Alexandria (disambiguation) - William Matthew Flinders Petrie - Pharaoh - Philae - Politics of Egypt - Polybus of Thebes - Port Said - Precinct of Amon-Re - Precinct of Mut - Princess Fawzia Fuad of Egypt - Ptolemaic Egypt - Decree of Canopus - Decree of Memphis (Ptolemy IV) - Rosetta Stone - Land of Punt - Pylon (architecture) - Pyramid - Bent Pyramid - Egyptian pyramids - Khafre's Pyramid - Menkaure's Pyramid - Red Pyramid - Step pyramid - Pyramid of Djoser - Pyramid of Unas - Pyramid Texts - Pyramidion - Pyramidology\n\nQattara Depression - Qetesh - Qubbet el-Hawa - Queen Ahmose - Queen consort - Valley of the Queens - QV44 - QV66\n\nRa - Rahab - Ramesseum - Red Pyramid - Red Sea - Reformed Egyptian - Rhind Mathematical Papyrus - Rhinocolura - David Rohl - Erwin Rommel - Rosetta - Rosetta Stone - Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum - Royal Wadi and tombs - Rylands Library Papyrus P52\n\nAnwar Sadat - Sahara Desert - Saint Catherine's Monastery - Sais, Egypt - Salec - Abdel-Razzak Al-Sanhuri - Sarcophagus - Satis - \"Scarabaeus sacer\" - Scaraboid seal - Scribe - Second Battle of El Alamein - Sehel Island - Senet - Serabit el-Khadim - Serapeum - Shabti - Ushabti - Shai - Shardana - Omar Sharif - Sharm el-Sheikh - Shasu - Shenouda III of Alexandria - Sinai Peninsula - Sistrum - Siwa Oasis - Siwi language - Six-Day War - Sobek - Southern Tomb 25 - Cave of Artemis/\"Speos Artemidos\" - Sphinx - \"Stargate\" - Stela - Stella (beer) - Step pyramid - \"The Story of Sinuhe\" - \"Story of Wenamun\" - Suez - Suez Canal - Suez Crisis - Syenite - Syriac\n\nTT71 - Taba (Egypt) - Talatat - Tanis, Egypt - Temple of Kom Ombo - Tewfik Pasha - Mohammed Ali Tewfik - \"The Egyptian\" - \"The Ten Commandments (1956 movie)\" - Theban Necropolis - Thebes, Egypt - Tiger Lotus (see Nymphaea's) - \" Tombs of the Nobles \" - Tombs of the Nobles (Amarna) - Transliteration of ancient Egyptian - Transportation in Egypt - TT71 - \"Tutankhamun and the Daughter of Ra\"\n\nUmm Kulthum - Umm el-Qa'ab - Uneg - United Arab Republic - Upper and Lower Egypt - Shabti - Ushabti - Uto/Buto\n\nValley of the Kings - Valley of the Queens - Via della Vittoria\n\nWady el-'Arish - Wagh el Birket - Kent R. Weeks - West Nile virus - Western Desert Force - Winter Palace Hotel, Luxor - Workmen's Village, Amarna - WV22 - WV23 - WV25\n\nXerxes I of Persia - Xerxes II of Persia\n\nYom Kippur War - Thomas Young (scientist)\n\nAhmed H. Zewail - Zahi Hawass\n\n"}
{"id": "402691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=402691", "title": "Johann Georg Gmelin", "text": "Johann Georg Gmelin\n\nJohann Georg Gmelin (8 August 1709 – 20 May 1755) was a German naturalist, botanist and geographer.\n\nGmelin was born in Tübingen, the son of a professor at the University of Tübingen. He was a gifted child and began attending university lectures at the age of 14. In 1727, he graduated with a medical degree at the age of 18. He then travelled to St Petersburg and obtained a fellowship at the Academy of Sciences in 1728. He lectured at the university from 1730, and in the following year was appointed professor of chemistry and natural history.\n\nAt his suggestion, Johann Amman left Hans Sloane in London to take up a post in St Petersburg. The final two volumes of Johann Christian Buxbaum's (1693–1730) \"Centuria\" were published posthumously by Gmelin.\n\nGmelin was elected one out of three professors to join Vitus Bering’s Second Kamchatka Expedition (1733–43). During the early part of the expedition - leaving St Petersburg in August 1733 - he was accompanied by the young student Stepan Krasheninnikov. They travelled together through the Urals and western Siberia to Yeniseysk. He described the position of the Yenisey river as a boundary between Europe and Asia and participated in measuring the lowest temperature ever recorded at Yeniseysk. He was also the first person to measure the fact that the level of the Caspian Sea was below that of the Mediterranean Sea. He eventually reached Bering’s headquarters at Yakutsk in September 1736. Unfortunately, Gmelin's residence burned on November 8, destroying all his natural history collections and notes plus part of his library. The subsequent summer, he made as many re-collections of specimens as possible to replace the loss. His \"Flora Sibirica\" (1747–1769) was based on his observations and collections. It contains descriptions of 1178 species, 294 of which he illustrated. His nephew Samuel Gottlieb Gmelin assisted him in editing the final two volumes. A fifth volume of \"Flora Sibirica\", mainly on cryptogams, was written by Stepan Krasheninnikov, but was never printed. Gmelin also described the journey in his \"Reise durch Sibirien von dem Jahr 1733 bis 1743\" (1751–1752).\n\nGmelin returned to the University of Tübingen in 1747 and became professor of medicine and, in 1751, director of the university's botanic garden. His travel description was published there. It was translated to French and Dutch, but not to Russian, \"because it contained uncomplimentary observations and comments on Russians\".\n\nGmelin was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1749.\n\nThe plant genus Gmelina (Lamiaceae) and several dozen plant and animal species are named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "3719005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719005", "title": "Karakorum", "text": "Karakorum\n\nKarakorum (Khalkha Mongolian: Хархорум \"Kharkhorum\") was the capital of the Mongol Empire between 1235 and 1260, and of the Northern Yuan in the 14–15th centuries. Its ruins lie in the northwestern corner of the Övörkhangai Province of Mongolia, near today's town of Kharkhorin, and adjacent to the Erdene Zuu monastery. They are part of the upper part of the World Heritage site Orkhon Valley.\n\nThe Orkhon valley was a centre of the Xiongnu, Göktürk and Uyghur empires. To the Göktürks, the nearby Khangai Mountains had been the location of the Ötüken, and the Uighur capital Karabalgasun was located close to where later Karakorum would be erected (downstream the Orkhon River 27 km north–west from Karakorum). This area is probably also one of the oldest farming areas in Mongolia.\n\nIn 1218–19, Genghis Khan rallied his troops for the campaign against the Khwarezm Empire in a place called Karakorum, but the actual foundation of a city is usually said to have occurred only in 1220. Until 1235, Karakorum seems to have been little more than a yurt town; only then, after the defeat of the Jin empire, did Genghis' successor Ögedei erect walls around the place and build a fixed palace.\n\nÖgedei Khan gave the decree to build the \"Tumen Amgalan Ord\" (Palace of Myriad Peace, Wan'an'gong in Chinese) in 1235 the year after he defeated the Jin Dynasty. It was finished in one year. In the Yuanshi (元史) it is written in the section for Taizong (太宗) Ögedei Khan: \"In the seventh year (1236), in the year of the blue sheep the Wanangong (萬安宫) was established in Helin (和林, Karakorum).\" One of Genghis Khan's nine ministers the Khitan Yelü Chucai (1190–1244) said the following poem during the ridge raising ceremony of the Tumen Amgalan Ord: \"Installed ridge well fit and stone foundation, The parallel placed majestic palace has been raised, When the bells and drums of the Lord and officials sound pleasantly, The setting sun calls the horses of war to itself from the mountain peaks.\" The Mongolian version of the poem is as follows: \"\"Tsogtslon tavih nuruu chuluun tulguur, Zeregtsen zogsoh surleg asriig bosgovoi, Ezen tushmediin honh hengereg ayataihan hanginan duursahad, Echih naran uuliin tolgoigoos dainii agtadiig ugtnam\".\n\nThe name Karakorum or \"Kharkhorin\" literally translates to 'black-twenty'. But scientists argue that the 'khorin' might have been a diversion of the word 'khurem', which means \"castle\" in Mongolian. Other translations vary.\n\nUnder Ögedei and his successors, Karakorum became a major site for world politics. Möngke Khan had the palace enlarged, and the great stupa temple completed. They had the Parisian goldsmith, Guillaume Bouchier, design the Silver Tree of Karakorum for the city centre. A large tree sculpted of silver and other precious metals rose up from the middle of the courtyard and loomed over the palace, with the branches of the tree extended into the building. Silver fruit hung from the limbs and it had four golden serpents braided around the trunk, while within the top of the tree was placed a trumpet angel, all as automata performing for the emperor's pleasure. When the khan wanted to summon the drinks for his guests, the mechanical angel raised the trumpet to his lips and sounded the horn, whereupon the mouths of the serpents began to gush out a fountain of alcoholic beverages into the large silver basin arranged at the base of the tree.\n\nWilliam of Rubruck, a Flemish Franciscan missionary and papal envoy to the Mongols reached Karakorum in 1254. He has left one of the most detailed, though not always flattering, accounts of the city. He compared it rather unfavourably to the village of Saint-Denis near Paris, and was of the opinion that the royal abbey there was ten times as important as the Khan's palace. On the other hand, he also described the town as a very cosmopolitan and religiously tolerant place, and the silver tree he described as part of Möngke Khan's palace as having become the symbol of Karakorum. He described the walled city as having four gates facing the four directions, two quarters of fixed houses, one for the \"Saracenes\" and one for the \"Cathai\", twelve pagan temples, two mosques, as well as a Nestorian church.\n\nWhen Kublai Khan claimed the throne of the Mongol Empire in 1260—as did his younger brother, Ariq Böke—he relocated his capital to Shangdu, and later to Khanbaliq (Dadu, today's Beijing). Karakorum was reduced to the administrative centre of a provincial backwater of the Yuan dynasty founded in China in 1271. Further to that, the ensuing Toluid Civil War with Ariq Böke and a later war with Kaidu hit the town hard. In 1260, Kublai disrupted the town's grain supply, while in 1277 Kaidu took Karakorum, only to be ousted by Yuan troops and Bayan of the Baarin in the following year. In 1298–99 prince Ulus Buqa looted the markets and the grain storehouses. However, the first half of the 14th century proved to be a second time of prosperity: in 1299, the town had been expanded eastwards, then in 1311, and again from 1342 to 1346, the stupa temples were renewed.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Yuan dynasty in 1368, Karakorum became the residence of Biligtü Khan in 1370. In 1388, Ming troops occupied and later razed the capital. According to Saghang Sechen's \"Erdeni-yin Tobči\", in 1415 a khuriltai decided to rebuild it, but no archaeological evidence for such a venture has been found yet. However, Karakorum was inhabited at the beginning of the 16th century, when Batu-Möngke Dayan Khan made it a capital once again. In the following years, the town changed hands between Oirads and Chinggisids several times, and \n\n \nErdene Zuu monastery stands near Karakorum. Various construction materials were taken from the ruin to build this monastery.\nThe actual location of Karakorum was long unclear. First hints that Karakorum was located at Erdene Zuu were already known in the 18th century, but until the 20th century there was a dispute whether or not the ruins of Karabalgasun, or \"Ordu-Baliq\", were in fact those of Karakorum. In 1889, the site was conclusively identified as the former Mongol capital by Nikolai Yadrintsev, who discovered examples of the Orkhon script during the same expedition. Yadrintsev's conclusions were confirmed by Wilhelm Radloff.\n\nThe first excavations took place in 1933–34 under D. Bukinich. After his Soviet-Mongolian excavations of 1948–49, Sergei Kiselyov concluded that he had found the remains of Ögödei's palace. However, this conclusion has been put into doubt by the findings of the 2000–2004 German-Mongolian excavations, which seem to identify them as belonging to the great stupa temple rather than to Ögödei's palace.\n\nExcavation findings include paved roads, some brick and many adobe buildings, floor heating systems, bed-stoves, evidence for the processing of copper, gold, silver, iron (including iron wheel naves), glass, jewels, bones, and birch bark, as well as ceramics and coins from China and Central Asia. Four kilns have also been unearthed.\n\nIn 2004, Prime Minister Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj appointed a working group of professionals to develop a project to build a new city at the site of the ancient capital Karakorum. According to him, the new Karakorum was to be designed to be an exemplary city, with a vision of its becoming the capital of Mongolia. After his resignation and the appointment of Miyeegombyn Enkhbold as prime minister, the project was abandoned.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41933568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41933568", "title": "Khirbet ar-Ras al-Ahmar", "text": "Khirbet ar-Ras al-Ahmar\n\nKhirbet ar-Ras al-Ahmar is a small Palestinian village in the Tubas Governorate of the West Bank. The village is located in Area C of the West Bank, and Israel has designated it a closed military zone for weapons training. As of mid-2010, the village had 195 residents.\n\n"}
{"id": "9606164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9606164", "title": "Kumbakkarai Falls", "text": "Kumbakkarai Falls\n\nKumbakkarai Falls are lesser known falls in the foothills of the Kodaikanal Hills. They are located at in Theni district, from Periyakulam. Kumbakkarai Falls are located along the Kodai-Vellagavi-Periyakulam footpath.\n\nThese falls have two stages. At the first stage, water collects in huge rock recesses which are each named after wild animals such as tiger, elephant, snake etc. The Pambar river then flows to the second stage before falling as the main waterfall.\n\nThe water originates in Kodaikanal Hills and flows along the rocks and finally reaches the foot hills. This place is called Kumbakarai. The travellers come here and take bath in the falls. The water flows throughout the year; but in rainy seasons the flow will be very heavy. Bathing is possible. There is a bus from Periyakulam with fare of Rs. 5 (6AM,7AM,1PM,3.30PM,4.30PM). There is no guest house.\n\nThe present day Kumbakarai which is tourist spot was once nothing but a forest with water falls . Thiru K.Chellam Iyer an affluent business man of Periyakulam those days and Properiter of Bavani Krishna Vilas hotel wanted kumbakarai water falls to be one another tourist spot similar to courtallam. He obtained permission of the British government in 1942 and constructed dressing rooms, staircases and bathing spots in that area at his own expense and Kumbakarai water falls soon turned out to be a tourist spot. The present day Kumbakarai still speak of his name. The stone inscription at Kumbakarai waterfalls speaks about his contribution to the falls. The Murugan statue that can be seen in the Photo was Sponsored by Thiru K Chellam Iyer of Periyakulam.\n"}
{"id": "4455587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4455587", "title": "List of Friulian place names", "text": "List of Friulian place names\n\nThis is a list in both Italian and Friulian language of place names in the historical area of Friuli, Italy, with the official spelling standard published by ARLeF - Regional Agency for the Friulian Language in 2009. Grave accents ( ` ) on the Friulian forms are to show syllable stress but are rarely written except when placed on the ultimate syllable. Italics are used for the names of municipalities that are not included within the area subject to protection of the Friulian language minority. These names are divided according to the modern Italian province in which they lie. From the historical point of view, both the Italian and Friulian forms are found in medieval documents. In some cases, though, Italian names were created by the fascist regime to Italianise the region.\n\nOne \"comune\" (municipality) in the Province of Belluno, Sappada, was historically part of Friuli. In 2010, the \"comune\" formally asked to become part of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia accepted the municipality's demand. Other \"comuni\" in the Province of Belluno are listed in the Friulian place names outside of Friuli section below.\nSeveral \"comuni\" (municipalities) in the eastern part of the Metropolitan City of Venice (formerly the Province of Venice) between the rivers Livenza and Tagliamento in the region known as the were historically part of Friuli. The Friulian names of these \"comuni\" are listed here. Other \"comuni\" in the Province of Venice are listed in the Friulian place names outside of Friuli section below. It is estimated that 29% of the population in these areas speaks fluent Friuli. The language is officially recognized and has been protected as a minority language since 2006.\nFollowing is a list of all \"comuni\" (municipalities) in the Province of Trieste. Although part of the region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, the province is not part of Friuli proper.\nFollowing is a list of select \"comuni\" (municipalities) bearing Friulian-language names in the Italian region of Veneto which borders Friuli. Note that \"comuni\" in the historically Friulian area of the Mandamento of Portogruaro are listed above in the Municipalities in the Metropolitan City of Venice section.\nFollowing is a list of cities, municipalities, and other settlements bearing Friulian-language names in the Austrian federal state of Carinthia which borders Friuli.\n"}
{"id": "30795591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30795591", "title": "List of minerals by optical properties", "text": "List of minerals by optical properties\n"}
{"id": "1724411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1724411", "title": "List of national parks in Africa", "text": "List of national parks in Africa\n\nThis is a list of national parks in Africa. The nature of the parks varies considerably not only between countries but also within some nations – the degree of protection, accessibility and type of environment for which it is intended to deliver protection. Some parks have been cleared of their original human population, others have always been essentially uninhabited, while yet others contain significant population centres.\n\nNational parks can be found in a large majority of African countries, being most numerous in Gabon, Kenya and Tanzania. Some nations also have considerable areas designated as private parks, game reserves, forest reserves, marine reserves, national reserves and natural parks. These are not included in the list below, even though some of these may resemble some national parks. For more information on such zones, see the individual articles on each country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25276714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25276714", "title": "List of people from Damascus", "text": "List of people from Damascus\n\nThe following is a list of notable people from Damascus, Syria.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23944468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23944468", "title": "List of regional airlines", "text": "List of regional airlines\n\nThe following is a list of regional airlines organized by home country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "874899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874899", "title": "List of rulers of the Mossi state of Gurunsi", "text": "List of rulers of the Mossi state of Gurunsi\n\nTerritory located in present-day Burkina Faso.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1799502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799502", "title": "Lower Myanmar", "text": "Lower Myanmar\n\nLower Burma (, also called Outer Myanmar) is a geographic region of Burma (Myanmar) and includes the low-lying Irrawaddy delta (Ayeyarwady, Bago and Yangon Regions), as well as coastal regions of the country (Rakhine and Mon States and Tanintharyi Region).\n\nIn the Burmese language, people originating from Upper Burma are typically called \"a-htet-tha\" for men and \"a-hiet-lhu\" for women, whereas those from Lower Burma are called \"auk tha\" () for men and \"auk thu\" for women. While \"a-nya tha\" () refers to interior inhabitants of the country.\n\nHistorically, Lower Burma referred to the part of Burma annexed by the British Empire after the end of the Second Anglo-Burmese War in 1852, plus the former kingdom of Arakan and the territory of Tenasserim which the British had taken control of in 1826 through the Treaty of Yandabo. Lower Burma was centred at Rangoon, and composed of all of the coast of modern Burma, and also the lower basin of the Irrawaddy River, including Prome. Until the early 19th century, Lower Burma was predominantly populated by the Mon and Karen tribes and was a historical stronghold of the Mon people.\n\n"}
{"id": "57877305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57877305", "title": "Matthew H. Edney", "text": "Matthew H. Edney\n\nMap historian and geographer Matthew H. Edney was born in 1962 in London SW19. He completed the B.Sc. (hons.) in Geography at University College London (1983) and then the M.S. in Cartography (1985) and Ph.D. in Geography (1990) at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\nAfter teaching at SUNY–Binghamton (aka Binghamton University) in 1990–95, Edney moved to the University of Southern Maine as faculty scholar in the Osher Map Library and Smith Center for Cartographic Education. In 2007 he also became Osher Professor in the History of Cartography.\n\nAlready working with Mary Pedley as editors of \"Cartography in the European Enlightenment\", volume 4 of \"The History of Cartography\", Edney took over in 2005 as director of the History of Cartography Project, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, after the death of his graduate advisor, David Woodward. In this capacity, Edney implemented Woodward's strategy of pursuing the last three volumes of the series concurrently and as interpretive encyclopedias. He persuaded the University of Chicago Press both to publish the three volumes (4, 5, and 6) in full color and to place the published volumes online for free public access.\n\nEdney's own research interests have addressed a variety of topics and concerns. His dissertation was published as \"Mapping an Empire: The Geographical Construction of British India, 1765–1843\" (Chicago, 1997). Since moving to Maine, Edney has particularly studied the mapping of colonial New England and North America, including essays on William Hubbard's map of New England (1677), the first map printed in British America, John Smith's map of New England (1616|7), and John Mitchell's 1755 map of North America that is often called \"the most important map in American history.\" He has an abiding interest in developing conceptual frameworks for mapping and map history, which has matured into a large project; the first part of this is in press and will appear in early 2019 as \"Cartography: The Ideal and Its History\" (Chicago). A full accounting of Edney's scholarship is available at Mapping as Process.\n"}
{"id": "20352180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20352180", "title": "Molnár János Cave", "text": "Molnár János Cave\n\nThe Molnár János Cave is a thermokarstic water-filled cave system. It is located in the Rózsadomb district of Budapest in Hungary.\n\nThe deepest sections reach , while the total length of explored sections is currently . Cave mouth is just from Danube\n\nIn 2008, a cave lake was found there, with largest chamber roughly long, wide and high.\n"}
{"id": "2225178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2225178", "title": "Mount Tabwemasana", "text": "Mount Tabwemasana\n\nLocated on the isolated west coast of Espiritu Santo, Mount Tabwemasana is not only the highest peak in Vanuatu, but also one of the highest mountains in the Pacific. At , Tabwemasana towers above the surrounding mountains and provides fantastic views toward the Coral Sea in East. Tabwemasana actually consists of two peaks and local folklore believes that these two peaks (male and female) come together in embrace at night.\n\nUntil the 1970s the village of Kerepua was located on the flanks of Tabwemasana, a full day's walk to the coast through thick rainforest. However, in the late 1970s like many other mountain villages, Kerepua was relocated to the coast and now provides the launching pad for any summit attempt.\n\nVery few tourists climb Tabwemasana each year, with the number reaching the summit generally less than six persons per year. This is primarily due to the isolated location of the mountain and the physical difficulty of ascending the peak. Those wishing to climb Tabwemasana must first take a boat from the village of Tasiriki to Kerepua. From Kerepua you trek up a river before leaving the valley for a steep ascent up the mountain. Guides are required as the track is very difficult to follow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3902727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3902727", "title": "Mount Tahat", "text": "Mount Tahat\n\nMount Tahat () is the highest mountain peak in Algeria. It sits at an elevation of . Tahat is also the highest peak in the Hoggar Mountains. Its nearest city is Tamanrasset which is located 56 km to the south. \n\nMount Tahat is of volcanic origin. It is located in an arid, rocky high plateau area of the central Sahara Desert. The Tuareg inhabit this region. To the north lie the Tassili n'Ajjer mountains, which contain cave paintings dating from a period between 8000 and 2000 BC. The rock art is pastoral, showing cattle breeding and hunting of animals that are today exclusively found in the southern Sahara's climate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "746126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=746126", "title": "Nashik", "text": "Nashik\n\nNashik ( ) is an ancient holy city in the northwest region of Maharashtra in India. Situated on the banks of Godavari River (Ganges of the South), Nashik is best known for being one of Hindu pilgrimage sites, that of Kumbh Mela which is held every 12 years. \n\nThe city located about 190 km north of state capital Mumbai, is called the \"Wine Capital of India\" as half of India’s vineyards and wineries are located in Nashik. \n\nAs per \"Ramayana\", Nashik is the location on the banks of Godavari river where Laxman, by the wish of Lord Rama, cut the nose of Shurpanakha and thus this city was named as \"Nashik\".\n\nNashik lies in the northern part of Maharashtra state at from the mean sea level which gives it ideal temperature variation, particularly in winters.\nThe river Godavari originates from the Brahmagiri Mountain, Trimbakeshwar about from Nashik and flows through the old residential settlement, now in the central part of the city. Due to high pollution created by factories in proximity of the city the river was dying at an alarming rate. It has since been successfully cleaned. Other than Godavari, important rivers like Vaitarana, Bhima, Girana flow across Nashik.\n\nNashik lies on the western edge of the Deccan Plateau which is a volcanic formation.\n\nTrimbakeshwar is about from the city, it is where from river Godavari originates. The land area of the city is about .\nAnjaneri near Nashik is the birthplace of lord Hanuman.\n\nThe city's tropical location and high altitude combine to give it a relatively mild version of a tropical wet and dry climate. Temperatures rise slightly in October, but this is followed by the cool season from November to February. The cool season sees warm temperatures of around 28 °C during the day, but cool nights, with lows averaging 10 °C, and extremely dry air.\n\nNashik city is governed by the Nashik Municipal Corporation.\n\nThe Nashik Court Building is built in black stone in British Regime and the new building was inaugurated on 18 September 2005. There are 73 courts including taluka court.\n\nIn the Nashik Municipal Corporation area about 225 MT of solid waste is generated per day. Unlike other Indian cities, this garbage is collected by vehicles titled 'Ghantagadi' (meaning the vehicle with a bell): a system which has resulted in a Smaller versions of the ghantagadi ply in the congested old city areas. A plant has been set by the Nashik Municipal Corporation near Pandav Leni (Pandavleni Caves) to process the garbage and convert into compost.\nNashik is the fifth largest city in Maharashtra in terms of population after Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Thane. According to the Census of India, 2011, Nashik had a population of 1,486,053. Males constitute 782,517 of the population and females 703,536. Metropolitan Nashik population was 1,561,809 in which 821,921 were males and 739,888 were females. Nashik city had an average literacy rate of 89.85%: male literacy was 93.40%, and female literacy was 85.92%.\n\nThe sex ratio is 894 per 1000 males for Nashik city. Child sex ratio is 865 girls per 1000 boys. In Nashik, 11.42% of the population is under 6 years of age. In census year 2001 the Nashik Urban Agglomeration had a population of 11,52,326. Thus it was the fourth largest urban area of Maharashtra State after Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur.\nThe projected population of Nashik urban agglomeration (which includes abutting urban areas like Deolali) as on 11 November 2012 is 15,62,769.\n\nIn February 2016, The Statue of Ahimsa, a 108 ft idol of first Jain tirthankara Rishabhdev carved in monolithic stone was consecrated at Mangi Tungi. It is recorded in the Guinness Book of World Records as the tallest Jain idol in the world. \n\nThe Pandavleni Caves, or Nasik caves, are a group of 24 caves carved between the 1st century BCE and the 2nd century CE, representing the Hinayana Buddhist caves and. Most of the caves are Viharas except for the 18th cave which is a Chaitya. The location of the caves is a holy Buddhist site and is located about 8 km south of Nashik.\n\n\nThe Kumbh Mela is celebrated every six years at Haridwar and Allahabad and Maha Kumbh takes place every twelve years at four places in Allahabad, Haridwar, Ujjain, and Nashik. According to the Puranas, it is believed that Kumbh derives its name from an immortal pot of nectar, which the devtas (Gods) and demons fought over. The four places where the nectar fell are at the banks of river Godavari in Nashik, river Kshipra in Ujjain, river Ganges in Haridwar and at Triveni Sangam of Ganga, Yamuna and invisible Saraswati River in Allahabad.\n\nIn early 1925, the table grape revolution was started in Ojhar, a small town near Nashik, by Raosaheb Jairam Krishna Gaikwad. Today, table grapes are exported to Europe, the Middle East, and Asia.\n\nThe average Kharip crop area is 663,200 hectares while the average Rabbi crop area is 136500 hectares. The sown area is 658,763 hectares (99%) and the forest land is 340,000 hectares (21.75%). The uncultivable area is 23,000 hectares (1.48%).\n\nThe Nashik Municipal Corporation has made it mandatory for new constructions in the city to install a rainwater harvesting system without which a completion certificate is not granted. This measure is expected to help recharge the aquifers and augment the groundwater level.\n\nThe Igatpuri-Nashik-Sinnar investment region is an important node in the US$90 billion Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project.\nNashik is a defense and aerospace manufacturing hub with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited aircraft manufacturing plant located at Ozar. The Currency Note Press and India Security Press are on Nashik Road, where Indian currency and government stamp papers are printed respectively.\nExisting industrial areas in Nashik district are Satpur, Ambad, Sinnar, Igatpuri, Dindori and Vinchur. The proposed additional areas are Sinnar, Malegaon and Rajur Bahula.\n\nLarge-scale industries present in Nashik district are Atlas Copco, Robert Bosch GmbH, CEAT Limited, Crompton Greaves, Graphite India, Schneider Electric, ThyssenKrupp, Epcos, Everest Industries, Gabriel India, GlaxoSmithKline, Hindustan Coca-Cola, Hindustan Unilever Limited, Jindal Polyster, Jyoti Structures, Kirlosker Oil Engines, KSB Pumps, Larsen & Toubro, Mahindra and Mahindra, Mahindra Sona, United Spirits Limited, Perfect Circle Industries, Mahindra Ugine Steel, Samsonite, Shalimar Paints, Siemens, VIP Industries, Indian Oil Corporation, XLO India Limited and Jindal Saw.\n\nApart from manufacturing, Nashik is an emerging investment destination for Information Technology companies. Tata Consultancy Services has invested in Nashik under the Government of India BPO promotion scheme (IBPS). Also WNS, ACRESS, Accenture, ICOMET technoloies TCS has set up Digital Impact Square, or DISQ, which is a social innovation center.\n\nNashik has a textile industry. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development has selected Yeola Block for development of Paithani Cluster. To facilitate exports, a container freight station was started at MIDC Ambad by the Central Government.\n\nNashik has been described as \"The Wine Capital of India\" the Nashik region reportedly produced 10,000 tonnes of grapes per year.\n\nThere are 45 wineries in Nashik, out of 78 wineries throughout India total. The largest vineyard in Nashik is the Sula Vineyards.\n\nNashik is home to several wine festivals, such as India Grape Harvest (IGH), SulaFest etc. In the harvest season.\n\nThe city has two state-run universities, the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University and the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53098485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53098485", "title": "Norman Pounds", "text": "Norman Pounds\n\nNorman John Greville Pounds (23 February 1912 – 24 March 2006) was an English geographer and historian. He wrote over 30 books, primarily on the history and geography of Europe from several different time periods.\n\nPounds grew up in Bath, England, where he was born on 23 February 1912. He went to three schools in the area. The first two were Church of England schools which began his opposition to organised religion. He attended King Edward's School on a scholarship between 1923 and 1931. He then studied at Fitzwilliam House at University of Cambridge where hereceived a diploma in education.\n\nHe became a geography and history teacher at Falmouth Grammar School in Cornwall between 1935 and 1944. When the Second World War broke out in 1939, he was declared medically unfit for active service and instead worked as a firewatcher. He also spent this time writing his PhD on the historical geography of Cornwall and received a first-class geography and history BA degree from the University of London. Pounds began teaching geography at The University of Cambridge in 1945 before moving onto Indiana University in the 1950s where he was a geography professor until 1968. He continued to teach at various institutions for several decades, finally stopping in 2004 at the age of 92.\n\nPounds' father, John Greville Pounds (1883-1935), was a compositor and his mother, Camilla Martha Minnie née Fisher (1884-1963) was a teacher. He married Dorothy Josephine Mitchell (1910-1989) in 1938. He died on 24 March 2006 of Leukaemia which he was diagnosed with at age 87.\n"}
{"id": "16278902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278902", "title": "Outline of Kiribati", "text": "Outline of Kiribati\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Kiribati:\n\nKiribati – sovereign island nation located in the central equatorial Pacific Ocean.\n\n\nGeography of Kiribati\n\n\n\nRegions of Kiribati\n\nList of ecoregions in Kiribati\nNone\n\n\nDemographics of Kiribati\n\nPolitics of Kiribati\n\nGovernment of Kiribati\n\n\n\nCourt system of Kiribati\n\nForeign relations of Kiribati\n\nThe Republic of Kiribati is a member of:\n\nLaw of Kiribati\n\nMilitary of Kiribati\nThere is no military in Kiribati.\n\nLocal government in Kiribati\n\nHistory of Kiribati\n\nCulture of Kiribati\n\n\nSports in Kiribati\n\nEconomy of Kiribati\n\nEducation in Kiribati\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16279085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279085", "title": "Outline of Moldova", "text": "Outline of Moldova\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Moldova:\n\nMoldova (officially the Republic of Moldova) – landlocked country in Eastern Europe, located between Romania to the west and Ukraine to the north, east and south. The capital city is Chișinău. Moldova declared itself an independent state in 1991 as part of the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Moldova is a parliamentary republic with a president as head of state and a prime minister as head of government. A new constitution was adopted in 1994. A strip of Moldovan territory on the east bank of the river Dniester has been under the de facto control of the breakaway government of Transnistria since 1990. As a result of a decrease in industrial and agricultural output since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the relative size of the service sector in Moldova's economy has grown to dominate its GDP and currently stands at over 60%. Moldova remains, however, the poorest country in Europe.\n\n\nGeography of Moldova\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Moldova\n\nDistricts of Moldova\n\n\nDemographics of Moldova\n\nPolitics of Moldova\n\nGovernment of Moldova\n\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Moldova\n\nThe Republic of Moldova is a member of:\n\nLaw of Moldova\n\nMilitary of Moldova\n\nLocal government in Moldova\n\nHistory of Moldova\n\nCulture of Moldova\n\n\nReligion in Moldova\n\nSports in Moldova\n\nEconomy of Moldova\n\n\nEducation in Moldova\n\nMoldova\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31404112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31404112", "title": "Polemius Silvius", "text": "Polemius Silvius\n\nPolemius Silvius (\"fl.\" 5th century) was the author of an annotated Julian calendar that attempted to integrate the traditional Roman festival cycle with the new Christian holy days. His calendar, also referred to as a laterculus or \"fasti\", dates to around 448–449. He was active in southeastern Gaul.\n\nPolemius was among the Christian cultural elite working within the imperial bureaucracy in Gaul under Valentinian III. He was a friend of Hilarius of Arles. The \"Gallic Chronicle of 452\", year 438, calls him \"mentally disturbed.\"\n\nPolemius was assigned to Eucherius, bishop of Lyon (ancient Lugdunum), and produced the calendar for him. Because fixed Christian feasts were still few in number, Polemius faced the challenge of fulfilling the conventions of a traditional Roman calendar with named holidays while \"disinfecting\" it of the Imperial Roman and other festivals now regarded as \"pagan.\" Although the Calendar of Filocalus in 354 had recorded the traditional religious holidays freely, by the time of Polemius the Christian state had begun to legislate against other religions and to divorce Rome's religious heritage from the culture and civic life of the Empire. Polemius, who had probably consulted the Calendar of Filocalus, filled gaps with meteorological and seasonal markers, and the \"Egyptian Days,\" days considered unpropitious for new undertakings and for certain medical practices. Bede was among those who drew information from it.\n\nIn Polemius's calendar, the word \"ludi\", \"games\" in classical Latin, means more specifically theatrical performances, while \"circenses\" is used for chariot races. His work provides significant examples of Gallo-Romance vocabulary, regional variations of the Latin language, and local survivals of Gaulish words.\n\nThe format used by Polemius for the most part followed the conventions of Roman calendars, with days arranged in parallel columns under the name of the month, and each day noted on a separate line. Column 1 numbers the days of the month. Column 2 identifies any special days, not only traditional Roman and Christian holidays, but also the birthdays of emperors, and days when consuls and praetors took office. Column 3 gives weather conditions; Columella's 1st-century treatise on agriculture may have influenced the inclusion of references to weather. Polemius also provided information from his own research, such as the birthdays of Cicero, Vergil, and a Faustina who was the divinized wife \"(diva)\" of an Antonine emperor.\n\nBecause the Roman calendar had traditionally served a didactic purpose, the \"laterculus\" of Polemius provided several other lists and tables under the month-by-month chronographic presentation:\n\nLost portions are known only from the introductory synopsis. For each month, the calendar also presents the equivalent Hebrew, Egyptian, Athenian, and Greek names.\n\nPolemius Silvius also wrote a list of Late Roman provinces, which Seeck appended to his edition of the Notitia Dignitatum.\n"}
{"id": "16704442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16704442", "title": "Processional walkway", "text": "Processional walkway\n\nA processional walkway is a ceremonial walkway in use since ancient times. Common functions of a processional walkway are for religious, governmental or celebratory purposes.\n\nEarly examples of this type of pedestrian travel way can be found in Egypt, Babylon and Crete. Ancient processional walkways were often associated with the design of palaces such as Phaistos on Minoan Crete.\n\nThe processional walkway is also an element of contemporary outdoor garden design.\n\n"}
{"id": "29385054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29385054", "title": "Quiver Tree Forest", "text": "Quiver Tree Forest\n\nThe Quiver Tree Forest (Kokerboom Woud in Afrikaans) is a forest and tourist attraction of southern Namibia. It is located about 14 km north-east of Keetmanshoop, on the road to Koës, on the Gariganus farm. It comprises about 250 specimens of \"Aloidendron dichotomum\", a species that is also locally known as \"quiver tree\" (Afrikaans: \"kokerboom\") because bushmen traditionally used its branches to make quivers. The forest is spontaneous; the tallest quiver trees are two to three centuries old. The forest was declared a national monument of Namibia on June 1, 1995.\n\nThe Quiver tree is also known for looking like its upside down because the \"leaves\" look somewhat similar to roots. This tree has a long history of beliefs that it will bring good luck to anybody that worships a tree and nurtures it. Since diamonds are very rich in Namibia, people say that if you dig up one of these trees you will get diamonds in your lifetime, but since these trees are blessed nobody wants to dig them up.\n\nNear the forest, there is another site of natural interest (itself a tourist attraction) for its geology, the Giant's Playground, a vast pile of large dolerite rocks.\n\nThe Quiver Tree Forest holds tremendous ecological value within its native landscape. Bright yellow flowers are born from June to July, when a huge variety of insects, birds and mammals are drawn to the abundant nectar.\n\nThe forest is home to the rock hyraxes living among rocks.\n\nAlthough \"Aloe dichotoma\" is common in southern Africa, there are only a small number of quiver tree forests proper. Most have been created by men; one of them is found in the Karoo National Botanical Garden of Worcester, South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "182242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182242", "title": "Sea of Japan naming dispute", "text": "Sea of Japan naming dispute\n\nA dispute exists over the international name for the body of water which is bordered by Japan, Korea (North and South) and Russia. In 1992, objections to the name Sea of Japan were first raised by North Korea and South Korea at the Sixth United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names. The Japanese government supports the exclusive use of the name \"Sea of Japan\" (日本海), while South Korea supports the alternative name \"East Sea\" (), and North Korea supports the name \"Korean East Sea\" (). Currently, most international maps and documents use either the name Sea of Japan (or equivalent translation) exclusively, and far fewer maps include both the name Sea of Japan and East Sea, often with East Sea listed in parentheses or otherwise marked as a secondary name. The International Hydrographic Organization, the international governing body for the naming of bodies of water around the world, in 2012 decided not to change the current single name \"Sea of Japan\" rejecting South Korea's request to use \"East Sea\" together with \"Sea of Japan\".\n\nThe involved countries (especially Japan and South Korea) have advanced a variety of arguments to support their preferred name(s). Many of the arguments revolve around determining when the name Sea of Japan became the common name. South Korea argues that historically the more common name was East Sea, Sea of Korea, or another similar variant. South Korea further argues that the name Sea of Japan did not become common until Korea was under Japanese rule, at which time it had no ability to influence international affairs. Japan argues that the name Sea of Japan has been the most common international name since at least the beginning of the 19th century, long before its annexation of Korea. Both sides have conducted studies of antiquarian maps, but the two countries have produced divergent research results. Additional arguments have been raised regarding the underlying geography of the sea as well as potential problems regarding the ambiguity of one name or the other.\n\nBoth sides in the dispute have put forward a number of arguments to support their claims.\n\nNorth Korea favors the exclusive use of the more nationalistic \"Korean East Sea\" or \"East Sea of Korea\" (조선동해/朝鮮東海) There are currently no known published maps on behalf of the North Korean government to assert their claims on the nomenclature \"Korean East Sea\" or \"East Sea of Korea\".\n\nAccording to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for South Korea, the name Donghae (동해, literally East Sea) has been used in Korea for over 2,000 years, including in \"History of the Three Kingdoms\" (三國史記, 1145), the monument of King Gwanggaeto, and \"Map of Eight Provinces of Korea\" (八道總圖, 1530). The first documented map to name the area the Sea of Japan was the world map drawn by the Italian missionary Matteo Ricci in China (1602) named \"Kunyu Wanguo Quantu\" (坤輿萬國全圖). No Japanese record published up to the late-18th century indicated any name for the body of water. Furthermore, South Korea has pointed out that a few 19th-century Japanese maps referred to the sea as Chōsenkai (朝鮮海, literally Sea of Joseon), including the \"Simplified Map of Japan's Periphery\" (日本邊界略圖, 1809) and \"New World Map\" (新製輿地全圖, 1844). South Korea argues there was no standard name prior to Japan's military expansion in the region in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Additionally, it specifically states that the name Sea of Japan was not widely used, even in Japan, as late as the mid 19th century. Thus, South Korea argues that the current name reflects active promotion by Japan during a time when Korea could not represent its interests internationally.\n\nThe Japanese government claims that the name Sea of Japan was internationally used since the 17th century and established by the early 19th century, during a period in which Japan was under an isolationist policy (Sakoku) of the Tokugawa shogunate, which restricted cultural exchange and commerce with foreign countries except China and the Netherlands until 1854. Accordingly, they state, Japan could not have, at that time, had an influence on the international community regarding the naming of the sea.\n\nThe invention of the marine chronometer in the late 18th century enabled Western explorers, such as Jean-François de Galaup from France, William Robert Broughton from Britain, and Adam Johann von Krusenstern (Ivan Fyodorovich Kruzenshtern) from Russia, to measure time and longitudes on the sea precisely and map the detailed shape of the Sea of Japan. Krusenstern was an admiral and explorer, who led the first Russian circumnavigation of the globe. According to Japanese records, it was Krusenstern who popularized the name \"Mer du Japon\" (Sea of Japan) in the West. In his work \"Reise um die Welt in den Jahren\" (1812), he wrote, \"People also call this sea area the Sea of Korea, but because only a small part of this sea touches the Korean coast, it is better to name it the Sea of Japan.\" The original book was published in St. Petersburg in German and Russian, translated into Dutch, French, Swedish, Italian and English, and distributed widely among Europe. As a result, the international name of the sea changed from no name to the Sea of Japan, on the maps drawn by countries other than Japan or Korea during the 17th to 20th centuries. Thus, the Japanese side argues that the South Koreans misunderstand the history of the name.\n\nTo provide evidence for the date when Sea of Japan came to be used internationally, both South Korea and Japan have undertaken surveys of various historical maps.\n\nIn 2004, South Korea surveyed ancient maps archived in the British Library, the Cambridge University Library, the University of Southern California (USC) East Asian Map Collection, the U.S. Library of Congress, the National Library of Russia, and the French National Library examined 762 maps. They found that 440 maps had used Sea of Korea (Corea), Oriental Sea/East Sea, 122 had used Sea of Japan, and 200 had used other terms. In the French language, the word \"orientale\" includes both the meaning of \"eastern\" related to compass direction and the meaning of \"oriental\", the Asiatic region. The same ambiguity is present in the Russian language, with both \"eastern\" and \"oriental\" indicated by one word.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2008, Japan conducted a number of surveys of different collections. In 2010, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA) published their conclusions; they found that among 1,332 maps from the Berlin Library, 279 used Sea of Korea, Oriental Sea, or East Sea (or some combination thereof), 579 used Sea of Japan exclusively, 47 used China Sea (with or without other names), 33 used another term, and 384 used no term. MOFA said the Struck collection (a collection of antiquarian maps owned by a European map collector) showed that out of 79 maps, 35 used Sea of Japan, 9 used the Sea of Korea, 2 used Oriental Sea, and 33 were unmarked. MOFA reported that among four Russian libraries and document archives holding 51 maps, 29 used Sea of Japan, 8 used Sea of Korea, 1 used Korea Strait, 1 used East Sea, 1 used Sea of China, and 11 used no name. MOFA said that 1,213 maps from the U.S. Library of Congress, ones that gave a name for this body of water, showed that 87 percent used Sea of Japan, 8 percent used Sea of Korea, 5 percent used other terms, and none used Oriental Sea or East Sea. Similarly, MOFA said that 58 maps from the British Library and the University of Cambridge showed 86 percent used Sea of Japan, 14 percent used Sea of Korea, and none used Oriental Sea, East Sea, or other terms. MOFA said that they looked at 1,485 maps in the French National Library. They reported that 95 percent of 215 French maps used Sea of Japan.\n\nIn November 2007, the National Geographic Information Institute of South Korea published a report on a survey of 400 ancient maps. According to the report, nine maps used East Sea for the water currently called Sea of Japan, while 31 maps used East Sea for the water currently called East China Sea. The number of maps used Sea of Japan is not disclosed. Furthermore, the report says \"In the late 18th century (1790–1830) the name Sea of Japan emerged. From the 19th century (1830 onward), there was a rapid increase in the use of the name Sea of Japan.\" Japan stated, \"This clearly shows the fallacy of the ROK's assertion that the name Sea of Japan was the result of the Japanese policy of expansionism and colonial rule, and can be interpreted as affirming that the name Sea of Japan was in widespread use well before Japan's colonial rule over the Korean Peninsula\".\n\nJapan argues that, the name Sea of Japan has been and should be used because the marginal sea is separated from the Pacific Ocean by the Japanese Archipelago. Korea argues that the adjective \"East\" describes its geographical position east of the Asian continent, although it is west of Japan and south of Russia. It states that this is analogous to the North Sea, which lies north of the European continent, but west of Scandinavian countries and east of Great Britain.\nHowever Koreans call the sea on their east side the East Sea (동해, Donghae), on their south side the South Sea (남해, Namhae), and on their west side the West Sea (서해, Seohae).\n\nThe Japanese Hydrographic and Oceanographic Department of the Japanese Coast Guard has claimed that the name East Sea is confusing and unsuitable as an international geographic name, because the local name for a variety of seas can be translated into English as East Sea. Examples include Dōng Hǎi (东海), the Chinese name for the East China Sea; Biển Đông, the Vietnamese name for the South China Sea; and the Baltic Sea, which means East Sea in several European languages such as German (\"Ostsee\"), Swedish (\"Östersjön\") and Finnish (\"Itämeri\"). East Sea is officially used as an English name for the water by the Government of Vietnam. Thus the Government of Vietnam uses East Sea for South China Sea in its English publications.\nAlso the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China uses East Sea for East China Sea in its English publications.\nIn addition, is not the Sea of Japan but the Pacific Ocean in the Japanese context. The regions on the east coast of Japan were named accordingly as the Tōkaidō region and the Tōkai region.\nThe Japanese government is concerned that the name change could set a bad precedent and cause more naming disputes worldwide.\n\nThe main two international organizations which have been involved in the naming dispute are the International Hydrographic Organization and the United Nations.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization is an organization that coordinates with member countries over hydrographic issues. One of the organization's functions is to help set international standards on the naming and delineation of nautical regions. In 1929, the organization (then called the International Hydrographic Bureau) published \"IHO Special Publication 23\" (IHO SP 23), which established the name of the sea as Sea of Japan; however, at that time, Korea could not participate in the IHO because it was under Japanese rule. South Korea officially joined the IHO in 1957.\n\nIn 1974, IHO released Technical Resolution A.4.2.6. This resolution stated that:\nIt is recommended that where two or more countries share a given geographical feature (such as a bay, a strait, channel or archipelago) under different names, they should endeavor to reach agreement on a single name for the feature concerned. If they have different official languages and cannot agree on a common name form, it is recommended that the name forms of each of the languages in question should be accepted for charts and publications unless technical reasons prevent this practice on small scale charts.\nSouth Korea has argued that this resolution is relevant to the debate about the Sea of Japan and implies that both names should be used; Japan, however, argues that the resolution does not apply to the Sea of Japan, because it does not specify this body of water and only applies to geographical features for which sovereignty is shared between two or more countries.\n\nThe IHO agreed to conduct a survey of available evidence in 2011. Previously, South Korea had been pushing the IHO to recommend only using the term East Sea, but announced on 2 May 2011, that it now preferred the gradual approach of using both names now, and eventually dropping the Sea of Japan name.\n\nOn 26 April 2012, the IHO announced that it had decided to use only \"Sea of Japan\" in its governing publication \"Limits of Oceans and Seas\" and rejected the alternative use of \"East Sea\" as proposed by South Korea. According to the South Korean government, the organization will again discuss the issue of the name when it reconvenes in 2017.\n\nWhile the United Nations has never directly addressed the issue of establishing an official, standardized name for the sea, several resolutions and statements by the UN have had relevance to the topic. Japan joined the United Nations in 1956, while South and North Korea both joined in 1991.\n\nIn 1977, the third U.N. Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names (UNCSGN) adopted Resolution III/20, entitled \"Names of Features beyond a Single Sovereignty\". The resolution recommended that \"when countries sharing a given geographical feature do not agree on a common name, it should be a general rule of cartography that the name used by each of the countries concerned will be accepted. A policy of accepting only one or some of such names while excluding the rest would be inconsistent as well as inexpedient in practice.\" As with IHO Technical Resolution A.4.2.6, South Korea and Japan disagree about whether or not this policy applies to the Sea of Japan.\n\nIn 1992, during the 1992 Sixth UNCSGN, the South Korean government, in their first time participating in UNCSGN, requested that the name of the sea be determined through consultation, which the North Korean representative concurred with. The Japanese representative stated that the name of the Sea of Japan had already been accepted worldwide and that any change would introduce confusion. The conference recommended that the parties work together on the issue outside of the conference.\n\nIn 1998, South Korea raised the issue again at the Seventh UNCSGN. Japan, however, opposed the method by which the South Korean government proposed the issue, arguing that they had not followed the proper procedure for doing so. Following some debate, South Korea withdrew the issue, and instead recommended that the United Nations Group of Experts on Geographical Names work so that a resolution could be submitted to the Eighth UNSCGN conference. The president of the conference urged that Japan, South Korea, and North Korea work towards a mutually acceptable agreement.\n\nAt the Eighth UNCSGN in 2002, South Korea and Japan presented a number of papers to the conference regarding their positions on the naming issue. South Korea asked for a resolution to adjudicate the name, while Japan asked that the name be decided through resolution outside of the conference. No resolution was passed, and the Committee again urged the countries to develop a mutually agreeable solution. The chairman further noted that standardization could only occur after consensus had been reached. The same situation occurred at the Ninth conference in 2007. South Korea and North Korea both proposed a resolution by the UNCSGN, while Japan expressed a desire to settle the matter outside of the conference, and the Committee urged the members to seek a mutual agreement.\nOn 23 April 2004, the United Nations affirmed in a written document to the Japanese government that it will continue using the name Sea of Japan in its official documents. However, it agreed to leave the topic open for further discussion. In a letter to South Korea, it was explained that the UN was not determining the validity of either name, but wished to use the term most widely used until the parties resolved the disagreement. The letter further stated, \"The use of an appellation by the Secretariat based on the practice is without prejudice to any negotiations or agreements between the interested parties and should not be interpreted as advocating or endorsing any party's position, and can in no way be invoked by any party in support of a particular position in the matter.\"\n\nOn 6 August 2012, representatives from North and South Korea addressed an assembly at the United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names, asking that the names \"East Sea\" and \"Sea of Japan\" be used concurrently for the sea. , chairman of the conference, responded that the organization had no authority to decide the issue and requested that the involved countries resolve the differences over the name amongst themselves.\n\nRussia calls this sea \"Япо́нское мо́ре\" (Yapónskoye móre, Japanese Sea). Japan believes that Russia played a major role in establishing this name internationally, as mentioned above. Chinese government websites exclusively use the name (rìběnhǎi, Japan Sea).\nIn 2003, the French Defense Ministry issued nautical maps that included both terms Sea of Japan and East Sea. It reverted to Sea of Japan as a single name in the map issued in 2004. The United Kingdom and Germany officially use the Sea of Japan.\n\nThe United States Board on Geographic Names (BGN) continues to advocate the use of Sea of Japan without qualification in U.S. government publications. The World Factbook published by the Central Intelligence Agency follows the BGN's guidance. On 8 August 2011, a spokesman for the United States Department of State stated that the United States Board on Geographic Names considered the official name of the sea to be \"Sea of Japan\". According to Yonhap, the U.S. has officially recommended to the IHO that \"Sea of Japan\" remain as the official name for the sea. In response to this failure of the South Korean campaign, South Korean foreign minister Kim Sung-hwan suggested advocating other historical names, such as \"Sea of Korea\".\n\nIn 2011, Virginia state lawmaker David W. Marsden, acting on behalf of Korean-American voters, introduced a bill to the education panel of the Senate of Virginia that would have required public school textbooks to include both \"Sea of Japan\" and \"East Sea\" as names. The panel rejected the bill by an 8–7 vote on 26 January 2012. The issue was revisited two years later on 3 February 2014, with the Education Committee of the Virginia House of Delegates passing legislation to use both \"Sea of Japan\" and \"East Sea\" in school textbooks.\n\nOn 29 June 2012, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Kurt M. Campbell affirmed the BGN's position in his response, published on the White House website, to a We the People petition concerning the usage of \"Sea of Japan\", in which he stated, \"It is longstanding United States policy to refer to each sea or ocean by a single name. This policy applies to all seas, including those bordered by multiple countries that may each have their own names for such bodies of water. Concerning the body of water between the Japanese archipelago and the Korean peninsula, longstanding U.S. policy is to refer to it as the \"Sea of Japan\". He also stated, \"We are aware the Republic of Korea refers to the body of water as the 'East Sea,' and the United States is not asking the Republic of Korea to change its nomenclature. U.S. usage of the 'Sea of Japan' in no way implies an opinion regarding any issue related to sovereignty.\"\n\nOn 18 November 2006, during the APEC summit in Hanoi, South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun informally proposed to the Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe that the sea be called instead the \"Sea of Peace\" or \"Sea of Friendship\", which Abe rejected. In January 2007 Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki opposed the idea, saying that there was no need to change the name of the Sea of Japan.\n\nA number of maps, encyclopedias, and other publications have switched to using both names. For example, the Manual of Style of the National Geographic Society states that disputed place-names in international waters or jointly controlled by two or more countries should use the conventional name first with other names following in parentheses. As such, their policy on this sea states that \"The internationally accepted name is Sea of Japan, although Korea prefers East Sea. When scale permits, Geographic maps show the alternative name East Sea in parentheses after Sea of Japan.\"\n\nIn 2006, Google put both names on Google Earth, using East Sea near the Korean coast and Sea of Japan near the Japanese coast. In the 2007 edition of \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the primary article is called \"Sea of Japan\". A secondary article called \"East Sea\" notes \"see Japan, Sea of\". On the encyclopedia's map of Japan and other Asia maps, Sea of Japan appears as the primary label and East Sea appears as a secondary label in parentheses. However, on the map of Korea the name East Sea appears as the primary label and Sea of Japan appears as a secondary label in parentheses. Other examples of publishers who use similar systems include Microsoft Encarta, the Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, and About.com.\n\nIn 2012, French encyclopedia publisher Larousse replaced \"Mer du Japon\" (\"Sea of Japan\") with \"Mer de L'est (Mer du Japon)\" (\"East Sea (Sea of Japan)\") in maps of South Korea and North Korea in two of its books.　However other maps such as those of Asia, China, Japan, and Russia continue to use \"Mer du Japon\". Furthermore, the article \"Mer du Japon\" does not mention \"East Sea\" at all.\n\nIn 2013, Bandai Namco Games, a Japanese game developer, initially presented both names as \"Sea of Japan (East Sea)\" in \"Ace Combat Infinity\". There was intense backlash from the Japanese community for including the Korean name at all. In response, the company removed all international borders and labels from the game's maps and heavily blurred them to maintain neutrality.\n"}
{"id": "9930858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9930858", "title": "Sealed road", "text": "Sealed road\n\nA sealed road is a road of which the surface has been permanently sealed by the use of one of several pavement treatments, often of composite construction. In some countries, such as Australia and New Zealand, this surface is generically referred to as \"seal\".\n\nSurface treatments used on sealed roads include:\n\n"}
{"id": "29639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29639", "title": "Siberia", "text": "Siberia\n\nSiberia (; ) is an extensive geographical region spanning much of Eurasia and North Asia. Siberia has historically been a part of modern Russia since the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nThe territory of Siberia extends eastwards from the Ural Mountains to the watershed between the Pacific and Arctic drainage basins. The Yenisei River conditionally divides Siberia into two parts, Western and Eastern. Siberia stretches southwards from the Arctic Ocean to the hills of north-central Kazakhstan and to the national borders of Mongolia and China. With an area of , Siberia accounts for 77% of Russia's land area, but it is home to approximately 36 million people—27% of the country's population. This is equivalent to an average population density of about (approximately equal to that of Australia), making Siberia one of the most sparsely populated regions on Earth. If it were a country by itself, it would still be the largest country in area, but in population it would be the world's 35th-largest and Asia's 14th-largest.\n\nWorldwide, Siberia is well known primarily for its long, harsh winters, with a January average of −25 °C (−13 °F), as well as its extensive history of use by Russian and Soviet administrations as a place for prisons, labor camps, and exile.\n\nThe origin of the name is unknown. Some sources say that \"Siberia\" originates from the Siberian Tatar word for \"sleeping land\" (Sib Ir). Another account sees the name as the ancient tribal ethnonym of the (also \"Syopyr\" (sʲɵpᵻr)), an ethnic group which spoke a Paleosiberian language. The Sirtya people were later assimilated into the Siberian Tatars.\n\nThe modern usage of the name was recorded in the Russian language after the Empire's conquest of the Siberian Khanate. A further variant claims that the region was named after the Xibe people. The Polish historian Chycliczkowski has proposed that the name derives from the proto-Slavic word for \"north\" (север, \"sever\"), but Anatole Baikaloff has dismissed this explanation. He said that the neighbouring Chinese, Turks, and Mongolians, who have similar names for the region, would not have known Russian. He suggests that the name might be a combination of two words with Turkic origin, \"su\" (water) and \"bir\" (wild land).\n\nThe region has paleontological significance, as it contains bodies of prehistoric animals from the Pleistocene Epoch, preserved in ice or in permafrost. Specimens of Goldfuss cave lion cubs, Yuka (mammoth) and another woolly mammoth from Oymyakon, a woolly rhinoceros from the Kolyma River, and bison and horses from Yukagir have been found.\n\nThe Siberian Traps were formed by one of the largest-known volcanic events of the last 500 million years of Earth's geological history. Their activity continued for a million years and some scientists consider it a possible cause of the \"Great Dying\" about 250 million years ago, – estimated to have killed 90% of species existing at the time.\n\nAt least three species of human lived in Southern Siberia around 40,000 years ago: \"H. sapiens\", \"H. neanderthalensis\", and the Denisovans.\nIn 2010 DNA evidence identified the last as a separate species.\n\nSiberia was inhabited by different groups of nomads such as the Enets, the Nenets, the Huns, the Scythians and the Uyghurs. The Khan of Sibir in the vicinity of modern Tobolsk was known as a prominent figure who endorsed Kubrat as \"Khagan\" of Old Great Bulgaria in 630. The Mongols conquered a large part of this area early in the 13th century. \n\nWith the breakup of the Golden Horde, the autonomous Khanate of Sibir was established in the late 15th century. Turkic-speaking Yakut migrated north from the Lake Baikal region under pressure from the Mongol tribes during the 13th to 15th century. Siberia remained a sparsely populated area. Historian John F. Richards wrote: \"... it is doubtful that the total early modern Siberian population exceeded 300,000 persons.\"\n\nThe growing power of Russia in the West began to undermine the Siberian Khanate in the 16th century. First, groups of traders and Cossacks began to enter the area. The Russian Army was directed to establish forts farther and farther east to protect new settlers from European Russia. Towns such as Mangazeya, Tara, Yeniseysk and Tobolsk were developed, the last being declared the capital of Siberia. At this time, \"Sibir\" was the name of a fortress at Qashlik, near Tobolsk. Gerardus Mercator, in a map published in 1595, marks \"Sibier\" both as the name of a settlement and of the surrounding territory along a left tributary of the Ob. Other sources contend that the Xibe, an indigenous Tungusic people, offered fierce resistance to Russian expansion beyond the Urals. Some suggest that the term \"Siberia\" is a Russification of their ethnonym.\n\nBy the mid-17th century, Russia had established areas of control that extended to the Pacific. Some 230,000 Russians had settled in Siberia by 1709. Siberia was a destination for sending exiles.\n\nThe first great modern change in Siberia was the Trans-Siberian Railway, constructed during 1891–1916. It linked Siberia more closely to the rapidly industrialising Russia of Nicholas II. Around seven million people moved to Siberia from European Russia between 1801 and 1914. From 1859 to 1917, more than half a million people migrated to the Russian Far East. Siberia has extensive natural resources. During the 20th century, large-scale exploitation of these was developed, and industrial towns cropped up throughout the region.\nAt 7:15 a.m. on 30 June 1908, millions of trees were felled near the Podkamennaya Tunguska (Stony Tunguska) River in central Siberia in the Tunguska Event. Most scientists believe this resulted from the air burst of a meteor or a comet. Even though no crater has ever been found, the landscape in the (sparsely inhabited) area still bears the scars of this event.\n\nIn the early decades of the Soviet Union (especially the 1930s and 1940s), the government established the Gulag state agency to administer a system of penal labour camps, replacing the previous katorga system. According to semi-official Soviet estimates, which were not made public until after the fall of the Soviet government, from 1929 to 1953 more than 14 million people passed through these camps and prisons, many of which were in Siberia. Another seven to eight million people were internally deported to remote areas of the Soviet Union (including entire nationalities or ethnicities in several cases).\n\nHalf a million (516,841) prisoners died in camps from 1941 to 1943 due to food shortages caused by World War II. At other periods, mortality was comparatively lower. The size, scope, and scale of the Gulag slave labour camps remains a subject of much research and debate. Many Gulag camps were positioned in extremely remote areas of northeastern Siberia. The best known clusters are \"Sevvostlag\" (\"The North-East Camps\") along the Kolyma River and \"Norillag\" near Norilsk, where 69,000 prisoners were kept in 1952. Major industrial cities of Northern Siberia, such as Norilsk and Magadan, developed from camps built by prisoners and run by former prisoners.\n\nWith an area of , Siberia makes up roughly 77% of Russia's total territory and almost 10% of Earth's land surface (). While Siberia falls entirely within Asia, many authorities such as the UN geoscheme will not subdivide countries and will place all of Russia as part of Europe and/or Eastern Europe. Major geographical zones include the West Siberian Plain and the Central Siberian Plateau.\n\nEastern and central Sakha comprises numerous north-south mountain ranges of various ages. These mountains extend up to almost , but above a few hundred metres they are almost completely devoid of vegetation. The Verkhoyansk Range was extensively glaciated in the Pleistocene, but the climate was too dry for glaciation to extend to low elevations. At these low elevations are numerous valleys, many of them deep and covered with larch forest, except in the extreme north where the tundra dominates. Soils are mainly turbels (a type of gelisol). The active layer tends to be less than one metre deep, except near rivers.\n\nThe highest point in Siberia is the active volcano Klyuchevskaya Sopka, on the Kamchatka Peninsula. Its peak is at .\n\n\n\n\nThe West Siberian Plain consists mostly of Cenozoic alluvial deposits and is somewhat flat. Many deposits on this plain result from ice dams which produced a large glacial lake. This mid- to late-Pleistocene lake blocked the northward flow of the Ob and Yenisei rivers, resulting in a redirection southwest into the Caspian and Aral seas via the Turgai Valley. The area is very swampy, and soils are mostly peaty histosols and, in the treeless northern part, histels. In the south of the plain, where permafrost is largely absent, rich grasslands that are an extension of the Kazakh Steppe formed the original vegetation, most of which is no longer visible.\n\nThe Central Siberian Plateau is an ancient craton (sometimes named \"Angaraland\") that formed an independent continent before the Permian (see the Siberian continent). It is exceptionally rich in minerals, containing large deposits of gold, diamonds, and ores of manganese, lead, zinc, nickel, cobalt and molybdenum. Much of the area includes the Siberian Traps—a large igneous province. This massive eruptive period was approximately coincident with the Permian–Triassic extinction event. The volcanic event is said to be the largest known volcanic eruption in Earth's history. Only the extreme northwest was glaciated during the Quaternary, but almost all is under exceptionally deep permafrost, and the only tree that can thrive, despite the warm summers, is the deciduous Siberian Larch (\"Larix sibirica\") with its very shallow roots. Outside the extreme northwest, the taiga is dominant, covering a significant fraction of the entirety of Siberia. Soils here are mainly turbels, giving way to spodosols where the active layer becomes thicker and the ice content lower.\n\nThe \"Lena-Tunguska petroleum province\" includes the Central Siberian platform (some authors refer to it as the Eastern Siberian platform), bounded on the northeast and east by the Late Carboniferous through Jurassic Verkhoyansk foldbelt, on the northwest by the Paleozoic Taymr foldbelt, and on the southeast, south and southwest by the Middle Silurian to Middle Devonian Baykalian foldbelt. A regional geologic reconnaissance study begun in 1932, followed by surface and subsurface mapping, revealed the Markova-Angara Arch (anticline). This led to the discovery of the Markovo Oil Field in 1962 with the Markovo 1 well, which produced from the Early Cambrian Osa Horizon bar-sandstone at a depth of . The \"Sredne-Botuobin Gas Field\" was discovered in 1970, producing from the Osa and the Proterozoic Parfenovo Horizon. The Yaraktin Oil Field was discovered in 1971, producing from the Vendian Yaraktin Horizon at depths of up to , which lies below Permian to Lower Jurassic basalt traps.\n\nThe climate of Siberia varies dramatically, but it typically has short summers and long, brutally cold winters. On the north coast, north of the Arctic Circle, there is a very short (about one-month-long) summer.\n\nAlmost all the population lives in the south, along the Trans-Siberian Railway. The climate in this southernmost part is Humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dfb\") with cold winters but fairly warm summers lasting at least four months. The annual average is about . January averages about and July about while daytime temperatures in summer typically are above . With a reliable growing season, an abundance of sunshine and exceedingly fertile chernozem soils, southern Siberia is good enough for profitable agriculture, as was proven in the early 20th century.\n\nBy far the most commonly occurring climate in Siberia is continental subarctic (Koppen \"Dfc\" or \"Dwc\"), with the annual average temperature about and an average for January of and an average for July of , although this varies considerably, with a July average about in the taiga–tundra ecotone. The Business oriented website and blog \"Business Insider\" lists Verkhoyansk and Oymyakon, in Siberia's Sakha Republic, as being in competition for the title of the Northern Hemisphere's \"Pole of Cold\". Oymyakon is a village which recorded a temperature of on 6 February 1933. Verkhoyansk, a town further north and further inland, recorded a temperature of for 3 consecutive nights: 5, 6 and 7 February 1933. Each town is alternately considered the Northern Hemisphere's Pole of Cold, meaning the coldest inhabited point in the Northern hemisphere. Each town also frequently reaches in the summer, giving them, and much of the rest of Russian Siberia, the world's greatest temperature variation between summer's highs and winter's lows, often being well over between the seasons. The rural locality of Delyankir, also in the Sakha Republic, is another candidate for the \"Northern Pole of Cold\", as its average temperature throughout all winter months is lower than that of either Oymyakon or Verkhoyansk, and it also has a lower yearly average temperature. Its record low of −65 °C (−85 °F) is slightly higher than the record lows set at Oymyakon and Verkhoyansk, however.\n\nSouthwesterly winds bring warm air from Central Asia and the Middle East. The climate in West Siberia (Omsk, Novosibirsk) is several degrees warmer than in the East (Irkutsk, Chita) where in the north an extreme winter subarctic climate (Köppen \"Dfd\" or \"Dwd\") prevails. But summer temperatures in other regions can reach . In general, Sakha is the coldest Siberian region, and the basin of the Yana River has the lowest temperatures of all, with permafrost reaching . Nevertheless, as far as Imperial Russian plans of settlement were concerned, cold was never viewed as an impediment. In the winter, southern Siberia sits near the center of the semi-permanent Siberian High, so winds are usually light in the winter.\n\nPrecipitation in Siberia is generally low, exceeding only in Kamchatka where moist winds flow from the Sea of Okhotsk onto high mountains – producing the region's only major glaciers, though volcanic eruptions and low summer temperatures allow limited forests to grow. Precipitation is high also in most of Primorye in the extreme south where monsoonal influences can produce quite heavy summer rainfall.\nResearchers, including Sergei Kirpotin at Tomsk State University and Judith Marquand at Oxford University, warn that Western Siberia has begun to thaw as a result of global warming. The frozen peat bogs in this region may hold billions of tons of methane gas, which may be released into the atmosphere. Methane is a greenhouse gas 22 times more powerful than carbon dioxide. In 2008, a research expedition for the American Geophysical Union detected levels of methane up to 100 times above normal in the atmosphere above the Siberian Arctic, likely the result of methane clathrates being released through holes in a frozen 'lid' of seabed permafrost, around the outfall of the Lena River and the area between the Laptev Sea and East Siberian Sea.\n\n\n\n\n\n]\nThe term \"Siberia\" has a long history. Its meaning has gradually changed during ages. Historically, Siberia was defined as the whole part of Russia to the east of Ural Mountains, including the Russian Far East. According to this definition, Siberia extended eastward from the Ural Mountains to the Pacific coast, and southward from the Arctic Ocean to the border of Russian Central Asia and the national borders of both Mongolia and China.\n\nSoviet-era sources (\"Great Soviet Encyclopedia\" and others) and modern Russian ones usually define Siberia as a region extending eastward from the Ural Mountains to the watershed between Pacific and Arctic drainage basins, and southward from the Arctic Ocean to the hills of north-central Kazakhstan and the national borders of both Mongolia and China. By this definition, Siberia includes the federal subjects of the Siberian Federal District, and some of the Ural Federal District, as well as Sakha (Yakutia) Republic, which is a part of the Far Eastern Federal District. Geographically, this definition includes subdivisions of several other subjects of Urals and Far Eastern federal districts, but they are not included administratively. This definition excludes Sverdlovsk Oblast and Chelyabinsk Oblast, both of which are included in some wider definitions of Siberia.\n\nOther sources may use either a somewhat wider definition that states the Pacific coast, not the watershed, is the eastern boundary (thus including the whole Russian Far East) or a somewhat narrower one that limits Siberia to the Siberian Federal District (thus excluding all subjects of other districts). In Russian, the word for Siberia is used as a substitute for the name of the federal district by those who live in the district itself and less commonly used to denote the federal district by people residing outside of it.\n\nThe most populous city of Siberia, as well as the third most populous city of Russia, is the city of Novosibirsk. Other major cities include:\n\n\nWider definitions of Siberia also include:\n\n\nSiberia is extraordinarily rich in minerals, containing ores of almost all economically valuable metals. It has some of the world's largest deposits of nickel, gold, lead, coal, molybdenum, gypsum, diamonds, diopside, silver and zinc, as well as extensive unexploited resources of oil and natural gas. Around 70% of Russia's developed oil fields are in the Khanty-Mansiysk region. Russia contains about 40% of the world's known resources of nickel at the Norilsk deposit in Siberia. Norilsk Nickel is the world's biggest nickel and palladium producer.\n\nSiberian agriculture is severely restricted by the short growing season of most of the region. However, in the southwest where soils are exceedingly fertile black earths and the climate is a little more moderate, there is extensive cropping of wheat, barley, rye and potatoes, along with the grazing of large numbers of sheep and cattle. Elsewhere food production, owing to the poor fertility of the podzolic soils and the extremely short growing seasons, is restricted to the herding of reindeer in the tundra—which has been practiced by natives for over 10,000 years. Siberia has the world's largest forests. Timber remains an important source of revenue, even though many forests in the east have been logged much more rapidly than they are able to recover. The Sea of Okhotsk is one of the two or three richest fisheries in the world owing to its cold currents and very large tidal ranges, and thus Siberia produces over 10% of the world's annual fish catch, although fishing has declined somewhat since the collapse of the USSR.\n\nWhile the development of renewable energy in Russia is held back by the lack of a conducive government policy framework, Siberia still offers special opportunities for off-grid renewable energy developments. Remote parts of Siberia are too costly to connect to central electricity and gas grids, and have therefore historically been supplied with costly diesel, sometimes flown in by helicopter. In such cases renewable energy is often cheaper.\n\nProfessional football teams include FC Tom Tomsk, FC Sibir Novosibirsk and FK Yenisey Krasnoyarsk.\n\nThe Yenisey Krasnoyarsk basketball team has played in the VTB United League since 2011–12.\n\nRussia's third most popular sport, bandy, is important in Siberia. In the 2015–16 Russian Bandy Super League season Yenisey from Krasnoyarsk became champions for the third year in a row by beating Baykal-Energiya from Irkutsk in the final. Two or three more teams (depending on the definition of Siberia) play in the Super League, the 2016-17 champions SKA-Neftyanik from Khabarovsk as well as Kuzbass from Kemerovo and Sibselmash from Novosibirsk. In 2007 Kemerovo got Russia's first indoor arena specifically built for bandy. Now Khabarovsk has the world's biggest indoor arena specifically built for bandy, Arena Yerofey. It was venue for Division A of the 2018 World Championship.\n\nThe 2019 Winter Universiade will be hosted by Krasnoyarsk.\n\nAccording to the Russian Census of 2010, the Siberian and Far Eastern Federal Districts, located entirely east of the Ural Mountains, together have a population of about 25.6 million. Tyumen and Kurgan Oblasts, which are geographically in Siberia but administratively part of the Urals Federal District, together have a population of about 4.3 million. Thus, the whole region of Asian Russia (or Siberia in the broadest usage of the term) is home to approximately 30 million people. It has a population density of about three people per square kilometre.\n\nAll Siberians are Russian citizens, and of these Russian citizens of Siberia, most are Slavic-origin Russians and russified Ukrainians. The remaining Russian citizens of Siberia consists of other groups of non-indigenous ethnic origins and those of indigenous Siberian origin.\n\nAmong the largest non-Slavic group of Russian citizens of Siberia are the approximately 400,000 ethnic Volga Germans. The original indigenous groups of Siberia, including Mongol and Turkic groups such as Buryats, Tuvinians, Yakuts, and Siberian Tatars still mostly reside in Siberia, though they are minorities outnumbered by all other non-indigenous Siberians. Indeed, Slavic-origin Russians by themselves outnumber all of the indigenous peoples combined, both in Siberia as a whole and its cities, except in the Republic of Tuva.\n\nSlavic-origin Russians make up the majority in the Buryat, Sakha, and Altai Republics, outnumbering the indigenous Buryats, Sakha, and Altai. The Buryat make up only 25% of their own republic, and the Sakha and Altai each are only one-third, and the Chukchi, Evenk, Khanti, Mansi, and Nenets are outnumbered by non-indigenous peoples by 90% of the population.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census there are 500,000 Tatars in Siberia, but of these, 300,000 are Volga Tatars who also settled in Siberia during periods of colonization and are thus also non-indigenous Siberians, in contrast to the 200,000 Siberian Tatars which are indigenous to Siberia.\n\nOf the indigenous Siberians, the Buryats, numbering approximately 500,000, are the most numerous group in Siberia, and they are mainly concentrated in their homeland, the Buryat Republic. According to the 2002 census there were 443,852 indigenous Yakuts. Other ethnic groups indigenous to Siberia include Kets, Evenks, Chukchis, Koryaks, Yupiks, and Yukaghirs.\n\nAbout seventy percent of Siberia's people live in cities, mainly in apartments. Many people also live in rural areas, in simple, spacious, log houses. Novosibirsk is the largest city in Siberia, with a population of about 1.5 million. Tobolsk, Tomsk, Tyumen, Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk, and Omsk are the older, historical centers.\n\nThere are a variety of beliefs throughout Siberia, including Orthodox Christianity, other denominations of Christianity, Tibetan Buddhism and Islam. The Siberian Federal District alone has an estimation of 250,000 Muslims.\nAn estimated 70,000 Jews live in Siberia, some in the Jewish Autonomous Region. The predominant religious group is the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nTradition regards Siberia the archetypal home of shamanism, and polytheism is popular. These native sacred practices are considered by the tribes to be very ancient. There are records of Siberian tribal healing practices dating back to the 13th century. The vast territory of Siberia has many different local traditions of gods. These include: Ak Ana, Anapel, Bugady Musun, Kara Khan, Khaltesh-Anki, Kini'je, Ku'urkil, Nga, Nu'tenut, Numi-Torem, Numi-Turum, Pon, Pugu, Todote, Toko'yoto, Tomam, Xaya Iccita, Zonget. Places with sacred areas include Olkhon, an island in Lake Baikal.\n\nMany cities in northern Siberia, such as Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, cannot be reached by road, as there are virtually none connecting from other major cities in Russia or Asia. The best way to tour Siberia is through the Trans-Siberian Railway. The Trans-Siberian Railway operates from Moscow in the west to Vladivostok in the east. Cities that are located far from the railway are best reached by air or by the separate Baikal-Amur-Railway (BAM).\n\nStroganina is a raw fish dish of the indigenous people of northern Arctic Siberia made from raw, thin, long-sliced frozen fish. It is a popular dish with native Siberians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "257916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=257916", "title": "Slump (geology)", "text": "Slump (geology)\n\nA slump is a form of mass wasting that occurs when a coherent mass of loosely consolidated materials or rock layers moves a short distance down a slope. Movement is characterized by sliding along a concave-upward or planar surface. Causes of slumping include earthquake shocks, thorough wetting, freezing and thawing, undercutting, and loading of a slope.\n\nTranslational slumps occur when a detached landmass moves along a planar surface. Common planar surfaces of failure include joints or bedding planes, especially where a permeable layer overrides an impermeable surface. Block slumps are a type of translational slump in which one or more related block units move downslope as a relatively coherent mass.\n\nRotational slumps occur when a slump block, composed of sediment or rock, slides along a concave-upward slip surface with rotation about an axis parallel to the slope. Rotational movement causes the original surface of the block to become less steep, and the top of the slump is rotated backward. This results in internal deformation of the moving mass consisting chiefly of overturned folds called sheath folds.\n\nSlumps have several characteristic features. The cut which forms as the landmass breaks away from the slope is called the scarp and is often cliff-like and concave. In rotational slumps, the main slump block often breaks into a series of secondary slumps and associated scarps to form stairstep pattern of displaced blocks. The upper surface of the blocks are rotated backwards, forming depressions which may accumulate water to create ponds or swampy areas. The surface of the detached mass often remains relatively undisturbed, especially at the top. However, hummocky ridges may form near the toe of the slump. Addition of water and loss of sediment cohesion at the toe may transform slumping material into an earthflow. Transverse cracks at the head scarp drain water, possibly killing vegetation. Transverse ridges, transverse cracks and radial cracks form in displaced material on the foot of the slump.\n\nSlumps frequently form due to removal of a slope base, either from natural or manmade processes. Stream or wave erosion, as well as road construction are common instigators for slumping. It is the removal of the slope's physical support which provokes this mass wasting event. Thorough wetting is a common cause, which explains why slumping is often associated with heavy rainfall, storm events and earthflows. Rain provides lubrication for the material to slide, and increases the self-mass of the material. Both factors increase the rate of slumping. Earthquakes also trigger massive slumps, such as the fatal slumps of Turnagain Heights Subdivision in Anchorage, Alaska. This particular slump was initiated by a magnitude 8.4 earthquake that resulted in liquefaction of the soil. Around 75 houses were destroyed by the Turnagain Slump. Power lines, fences, roads, houses, and other manmade structures may be damaged if in the path of a slump.\n\nThe speed of slump varies widely, ranging from meters per second, to meters per year. Sudden slumps usually occur after earthquakes or heavy continuing rains, and can stabilize within a few hours. Most slumps develop over comparatively longer periods, taking months or years to reach stability. An example of a slow-moving slump is the Swift Creek Landslide, a deep-seated rotational slump located on Sumas Mountain, Washington.\n\nSlumps may also occur underwater along the margins of continents and islands, resulting from tidal action or a large seismic event. These submarine slumps can generate disastrous tsunamis. The underwater terrain which encompasses the Hawaiian Islands gains its unusual hummocky topography from the many slumps that have taken place for millions of years.\n\nOne of the largest known slumps occurred on the south-eastern edge of the Agulhas Bank south of Africa in the Pliocene or more recently. This so-called Agulhas Slump is long, wide, and has a volume of . It is a composite slump with proximal and distal allochthonous sediment masses separated by a large glide plane scar.\n\n"}
{"id": "48988447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48988447", "title": "Southern Ural", "text": "Southern Ural\n\nSouthern Ural - the south, the widest part of the Ural Mountains, stretches from the river Ufa (near the village of Lower Ufaley) to the Ural River. From the west and east of the Southern Ural is limited to the East European, West Siberian Plain and the steppes near Aral Sea and Caspian sea.\nThe highest peak - Mount Yamantau - 1640 m. Due to the wide abutting the foothills of the Southern Ural extends up to 250 km with an average width of the Ural Mountains from 40 to 150 km.\n\nThe length of the Southern Ural - 550 km.\n\nThe relief of the Southern Ural is more complex, with numerous valleys and parallel ridges directed south-west and meridionally. The range includes the Ilmensky Mountains separated from the main ridges by the Miass River. The maximum height is (Mount Yamantau) and the width reaches . Other notable peaks lie along the Iremel mountain ridge (Bolshoy Iremel and Maly Iremel). The Southern Urals extend some up to the sharp westward bend of the Ural River and terminate in the wide Mughalzhar Hills.\n"}
{"id": "2008414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008414", "title": "Spiral Island", "text": "Spiral Island\n\nSpiral Island is the name of a floating artificial island built in Mexico by British artist Richart \"Reishee\" Sowa. It was destroyed by Hurricane Emily in 2005; a replacement, Joyxee Island, has been open for tours since 2008.\n\nSpiral Island has been featured in a number of newspapers and TV documentaries around the world, including in Japan and South Korea, and has been featured in an episode of the \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" TV series, and on the MTV program Extreme Cribs in 2011.\n\nThe first Spiral island was located in a lagoon near Puerto Aventuras, on the Caribbean coast of Mexico south of Cancún; Richart Sowa began constructing it in 1998. He filled nets with empty discarded plastic bottles to support a structure of plywood and bamboo, on which he poured sand and planted numerous plants, including mangroves. The island sported a two-story house, a solar oven, a self-composting toilet, and three beaches. He used some 250,000 bottles for the structure. \n\nSowa was ordered to take the island out of the man-made canal in 2004 because many private homes and condos were being built and he lived for one year tied to the end of a loose rock pier. Richart was offered a new location in the bay of Soliman about 200 km south, Finally, he was permitted by Port authorities to tow Spiral Island but the island was destroyed by Hurricane Emily in 2005. \n\nIn late 2007 and 2008, Sowa built a replacement for Spiral Island in the waters of Isla Mujeres, the \"Island of Women\", also near Cancun. It opened for tours in August 2008. \n\nThe new island was initially in diameter and contained about 100,000 bottles. It has since expanded to 25 metres (82 ft) due to various plants and mangroves growing from the island. The new island has three beaches, a house, two ponds, a wave-powered washing machine, solar panels, a solar-powered waterfall and river. The island is a constant work in progress with volunteers and Sowa himself continually making improvements.\n\nIn May 2011, Reishee embarked on a project to berth his island out in Isla Mujeres Bay, as it was now too big for its current site off a pier in Laguna Majax. The Mexican Government also recognized Joyxee Island as an \"Eco Boat\" and therefore needed to comply with all current boating regulations, which involved the purchase of fire extinguishers, life ring buoys and emergency kits. The project was launched on kickstarter.com with a goal of $18,000 that it failed to reach. Reishee later successfully relaunched the project with a more conservative $9,000 goal.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "3435582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3435582", "title": "Subdivisions of Switzerland", "text": "Subdivisions of Switzerland\n\nThe Swiss Confederation comprises the 26 cantons of Switzerland.\n\nEach canton has its individual structure for further subdivisions.\n\nFor statistical purposes, Switzerland is subdivided into seven regions at the NUTS-2 level:\nThe 26 cantons of Switzerland are the member states of the federal state of Switzerland. Each canton was a fully sovereign state with its own borders, army and currency from the Treaty of Westphalia (1648) until the establishment of the Swiss federal state in 1848.\n\nEach canton has its own constitution, legislature, government and courts. Most of the cantons' legislatures are unicameral parliaments, their size varying between fifty-eight and two hundred seats. A few legislatures are general assemblies known as \"Landsgemeinden\". The cantonal governments consist of either five or seven members, depending on the canton. For the names of the institutions, see List of legislative and executive councils of the Cantons of Switzerland.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Constitution declares the cantons to be sovereign to the extent their sovereignty is not limited by federal law. The cantons also retain all powers and competencies not delegated to the Confederation by the Constitution. Most significantly, the cantons are responsible for healthcare, welfare, law enforcement and public education; they also retain the power of taxation. The cantonal constitutions determine the degree of autonomy accorded to the municipalities, which varies but almost always includes the power to levy taxes and pass municipal laws. The sizes of the cantons vary from 37 km² to 7,105 km²; the populations vary from 15,471 to 1,244,400.\n\nIn contrast to centrally organised states, in the federally constituted Switzerland each Canton is\ncompletely free to decide its own internal organisation. Therefore, there exists a variety of structures and terminology for the subnational entities between Canton and Municipality, loosely termed districts (i.e. Urban Administration Districts).\n\nMost Cantons are divided into \"Bezirke\" (German for districts). They are also termed \"Ämter\" (Lucerne), \"Amtsbezirke\" (Bern), \"district\" (in French) or \"distretto\" (Ticino and part of Graubünden). The Bezirke generally provide only administration and court organization. However, for historical reasons districts in cantons Graubünden and Schwyz are their own legal entities with jurisdiction over tax and often have their own Landsgemeinde.\n\nEight of the 26 Cantons – Uri, Obwalden, Nidwalden, Glarus, Zug, Appenzell Innerrhoden, Basel-City and Geneva – have always existed without the district level of government.\nA number of further cantons have dispensed with the district level recently, Appenzell Ausserrhoden in 1995, Schaffhausen in 1999, St Gallen in 2003 and Lucerne in 2007.\n\nA number of further cantons are considering (or have already decided) an abolition of the district level in the future: Schwyz in 2006 voted on its abolition, but voted in favour of keeping the division. Bern in 2006 decided a reduction of its 26 districts to five administrative regions.\nVaud decided a reduction from 19 to 10 districts. Valais is planning a similar reduction and in Thurgau, a reduction of eight to four districts is under discussion.\n\nCommunes ( / / / ), also known as municipalities, are the smallest government division in Switzerland, numbering 2,636 as of 2009. While many have a population of a few hundred citizens, the largest cities such as Zürich or Geneva also have the legal status of municipalities. The area of the municipalities varies between 0.32 km² (Kaiserstuhl, Aargau and Rivaz, Vaud) and 439 km² (Scuol, Graubünden).\n\nEach canton defines their responsibilities. These may include providing local government services such as education, medical and social services, public transportation, and tax collection. The degree of centralization varies from one canton to another.\n\nCommunes are generally governed by a council (sometimes called Municipality) headed by a mayor as executive and the town meeting as legislature. Most cantons leave the option to larger municipalities to opt for a city parliament. In some cantons, foreign persons that have dwelled for a certain time in Switzerland are also allowed to participate in the municipal politics.\n\nSwiss citizenship is based on the citizenship of a municipality. Every Swiss is citizen of one or several municipalities (i.e. the place of origin, \"lieu d'origine\", \"Heimatort\").\n\nCommunes are financed through direct taxes (e.g. income tax), with rates varying more or less within a framework set by the canton.\n\nMany municipalities are having difficulties maintaining the civil services they need to perform the duties they are required to do. In an effort to reduce expenses, many municipalities are combining together (through mergers or the creation of special-purpose districts). This restructuring is generally encouraged by the cantonal governments and the rate of these unions is increasing.\n\n\"Cities\" (\"villes\" or \"Städte\") are the municipalities with more than 10'000 inhabitants or smaller places which had medieval town rights. There is no specific designation for smaller communities such as \"village\" or \"town\".\n\nSome subdivisions that exist are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1490376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1490376", "title": "Sundarbans", "text": "Sundarbans\n\nThe Sundarbans is a mangrove area in the delta formed by the confluence of Ganges, Brahmaputra and Meghna Rivers in the Bay of Bengal. It spans from the Hooghly River in India's state of West Bengal to the Baleswar River in Bangladesh. It comprises closed and open mangrove forests, agriculturally used land, mudflats and barren land, and is intersected by multiple tidal streams and channels. Four protected areas in the Sundarbans are enlisted as UNESCO World Heritage Sites, viz Sundarbans National Park, Sundarbans West, Sundarbans South and Sundarbans East Wildlife Sanctuaries.\nThe Sundarbans mangrove forest covers an area of about . In West Bengal, they extend over across the South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts. Forests in Bangladesh’s Khulna Division extend over . The most abundant tree species are Sundri (\"Heritiera fomes\") and Gewa (\"Excoecaria agallocha\"). The forests provide habitat to 453 faunal wildlife, including 290 bird, 120 fish, 42 mammal, 35 reptile and eight amphibian species.\n\nThe name 'Sundarbans' means 'beautiful forest'.\n\nDespite a total ban on all killing or capture of wildlife other than fish and some invertebrates, it appears that there is a consistent pattern of depleted biodiversity or loss of species in the 20th century, and that the ecological quality of the forest is declining.\nThe Directorate of Forest is responsible for the administration and management of Sundarban National Park in West Bengal. In Bangladesh, a new Forest Circle was created in 1993 to preserve the forest, and Chief Conservators of Forests have been posted since. Despite preservation commitments from both Governments, the Sunderbans are under threat from both natural and human-made causes. In 2007, the landfall of Cyclone Sidr damaged around 40% of the Sundarbans. The forest is also suffering from increased salinity due to rising sea levels and reduced freshwater supply. The proposed coal-fired Rampal power station situated north of the Sundarbans at Rampal Upazila of Bagerhat District in Khulna, Bangladesh is anticipated to further damage this unique mangrove forest according to a 2016 report by UNESCO..\n\nThe Bengali name 'Sundarban' means 'beautiful forest'. It may have been derived from the word 'Sundari', the local name of the mangrove species \"Heritiera fomes\". Alternatively, it has been proposed that the name is a corruption of \"Samudraban\", \"Shomudrobôn\" (\"Sea Forest\"), or \"Chandra-bandhe\" (name of a primitive tribe). However, the generally accepted view is the one associated with \"Sundari\" or \"Sundri\" trees.\n\nThe history of the area can be traced back to 200–300 AD. A ruin of a city built by Chand Sadagar has been found in the Baghmara Forest Block. During the Mughal period, the Mughal Kings leased the forests of the Sundarbans to nearby residents. Many criminals took refuge in the Sundarbans from the advancing armies of Emperor Akbar. Many have been known to be attacked by tigers. Many of the buildings which were built by them later fell to hands of Portuguese pirates, salt smugglers and dacoits in the 17th century. Evidence of the fact can be traced from the ruins at Netidhopani and other places scattered all over Sundarbans. The legal status of the forests underwent a series of changes, including the distinction of being the first mangrove forest in the world to be brought under scientific management. The area was mapped first in Persian, by the Surveyor General as early as 1764 following soon after proprietary rights were obtained from the Mughal Emperor Alamgir II by the British East India Company in 1757. Systematic management of this forest tract started in the 1860s after the establishment of a Forest Department in the Province of Bengal, in British India. The management was entirely designed to extract whatever treasures were available, but labour and lower management mostly were staffed by locals, as the British had no expertise or adaptation experience in mangrove forests.\n\nThe first Forest Management Division to have jurisdiction over the Sundarbans was established in 1869. In 1875 a large portion of the mangrove forests was declared as reserved forests under the Forest Act, 1865 (Act VIII of 1865). The remaining portions of the forests were declared a reserve forest the following year and the forest, which was so far administered by the civil administration district, was placed under the control of the Forest Department. A Forest Division, which is the basic forest management and administration unit, was created in 1879 with the headquarters in Khulna, Bangladesh. The first management plan was written for the period 1893–98.\n\nIn 1911, it was described as a tract of waste country which had never been surveyed nor had the census been extended to it. It then stretched for about from the mouth of the Hooghly River to the mouth of the Meghna river and was bordered inland by the three settled districts of the 24 Parganas, Khulna and Bakerganj. The total area (including water) was estimated at . It was a water-logged jungle, in which tigers and other wild beasts abounded. Attempts at reclamation had not been very successful. The Sundarbans were intersected by river channels and creeks, some of which afforded water communication throughout the Bengal region both for steamboats and ships.\n\nThe Sundarban forest lies in the vast delta on the Bay of Bengal formed by the super confluence of the Ganges, Hooghly, Padma, Brahmaputra and Meghna rivers across southern Bangladesh. The seasonally flooded Sundarbans freshwater swamp forests lie inland from the mangrove forests on the coastal fringe. The forest covers of which about are in Bangladesh. It became inscribed as a UNESCO world heritage site in 1997. The Indian part of Sundarbans is estimated to be about , of which about is occupied by waterbodies in the forms of river, canals and creeks of width varying from a few metres to several kilometres.\n\nThe Sundarbans is intersected by a complex network of tidal waterways, mudflats and small islands of salt-tolerant mangrove forests. The interconnected network of waterways makes almost every corner of the forest accessible by boat. The area is known for the Bengal tiger (\"Panthera tigris tigris\"), as well as numerous fauna including species of birds, spotted deer, crocodiles and snakes. The fertile soils of the delta have been subject to intensive human use for centuries, and the ecoregion has been mostly converted to intensive agriculture, with few enclaves of forest remaining. The remaining forests, taken together with the Sundarbans mangroves, are important habitat for the endangered tiger. Additionally, the Sundarbans serves a crucial function as a protective barrier for the millions of inhabitants in and around Khulna and Mongla against the floods that result from the cyclones. The Sundarbans has also been enlisted among the finalists in the New7Wonders of Nature.\n\nThe mangrove-dominated Ganges Delta – the Sundarbans – is a complex ecosystem comprising one of the three largest single tracts of mangrove forests of the world. Larger part is situated in Bangladesh, a smaller portion of it lies in India. The Indian part of the forest is estimated to be about 40 percent, while the Bangladeshi part is 60 percent. To the south the forest meets the Bay of Bengal; to the east it is bordered by the Baleswar River and to the north there is a sharp interface with intensively cultivated land. The natural drainage in the upstream areas, other than the main river channels, is everywhere impeded by extensive embankments and polders. The Sundarbans was originally measured (about 200 years ago) to be of about . Now it has dwindled into about 1/3 of the original size. The total land area today is , including exposed sandbars with a total area of ; the remaining water area of encompasses rivers, small streams and canals. Rivers in the Sundarbans are meeting places of salt water and freshwater. Thus, it is a region of transition between the freshwater of the rivers originating from the Ganges and the saline water of the Bay of Bengal.\n\nThe Sundarbans along the Bay of Bengal has evolved over the millennia through natural deposition of upstream sediments accompanied by intertidal segregation. The physiography is dominated by deltaic formations that include innumerable drainage lines associated with surface and subaqueous levees, splays and tidal flats. There are also marginal marshes above mean tide level, tidal sandbars and islands with their networks of tidal channels, subaqueous distal bars and proto-delta clays and silt sediments. The Sundarbans' floor varies from above sea level.\n\nBiotic factors here play a significant role in physical coastal evolution, and for wildlife a variety of habitats have developed which include beaches, estuaries, permanent and semi-permanent swamps, tidal flats, tidal creeks, coastal dunes, back dunes and levees. The mangrove vegetation itself assists in the formation of new landmass and the intertidal vegetation plays a significant role in swamp morphology. The activities of mangrove fauna in the intertidal mudflats develop micromorphological features that trap and hold sediments to create a substratum for mangrove seeds. The morphology and evolution of the eolian dunes is controlled by an abundance of xerophytic and halophytic plants. Creepers, grasses and sedges stabilise sand dunes and uncompacted sediments. The Sunderbans mudflats (Banerjee, 1998) are found at the estuary and on the deltaic islands where low velocity of river and tidal current occurs. The flats are exposed in low tides and submerged in high tides, thus being changed morphologically even in one tidal cycle. The tides are so large that approximately one third of the land disappears and reappears every day. The interior parts of the mudflats serve as a perfect home for mangroves.\n\nSundarbans features two ecoregions — \"Sundarbans freshwater swamp forests\" (IM0162) and \"Sundarbans mangroves\" (IM1406).\n\nThe Sundarbans freshwater swamp forests are a tropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion of Bangladesh. It represents the brackish swamp forests that lie behind the \"Sundarbans Mangroves\", where the salinity is more pronounced. The freshwater ecoregion is an area where the water is only slightly brackish and becomes quite fresh during the rainy season, when the freshwater plumes from the Ganges and the Brahmaputra rivers push the intruding salt water out and bring a deposit of silt.\nIt covers of the vast Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta, extending from the northern part of Khulna District and finishing at the mouth of the Bay of Bengal with scattered portions extending into India's West Bengal state. The Sundarbans freshwater swamp forests lie between the upland Lower Gangetic plains moist deciduous forests and the brackish-water Sundarbans mangroves bordering the Bay of Bengal.\n\nA victim of large-scale clearing and settlement to support one of the densest human populations in Asia, this ecoregion is under a great threat of extinction. Hundreds of years of habitation and exploitation have exacted a heavy toll on this ecoregion's habitat and biodiversity. There are two protected areas – Narendrapur (110 km) and Ata Danga Baor (20 km) that cover a mere 130 km of the ecoregion. Habitat loss in this ecoregion is so extensive, and the remaining habitat is so fragmented, that it is difficult to ascertain the composition of the original vegetation of this ecoregion. According to Champion and Seth (1968), the freshwater swamp forests are characterised by \"Heritiera minor\", \"Xylocarpus molluccensis\", \"Bruguiera conjugata\", \"Sonneratia apetala\", \"Avicennia officinalis\", and \"Sonneratia caseolaris\", with \"Pandanus tectorius\", \"Hibiscus tiliaceus\", and \"Nipa fruticans\" along the fringing banks.\n\nThe Sundarbans Mangroves ecoregion on the coast forms the seaward fringe of the delta and is the world's largest mangrove ecosystem, with of an area covered. The dominant mangrove species \"Heritiera fomes\" is locally known as \"sundri\" or \"sundari\". Mangrove forests are not home to a great variety of plants. They have a thick canopy, and the undergrowth is mostly seedlings of the mangrove trees. Besides the \"sundari\", other tree species in the forest include \"Avicennia\", \"Xylocarpus mekongensis\", \"Xylocarpus granatum\", \"Sonneratia apetala\", \"Bruguiera gymnorhiza\", \"Ceriops decandra\", \"Aegiceras corniculatum\", \"Rhizophora mucronata\", and \"Nypa fruticans\" palms.\nTwenty-six of the fifty broad mangrove species found in the world grow well in the Sundarbans. The commonly identifiable vegetation types in the dense Sundarbans mangrove forests are salt water mixed forest, mangrove scrub, brackish water mixed forest, littoral forest, wet forest and wet alluvial grass forests. The Bangladesh mangrove vegetation of the Sundarbans differs greatly from other non-deltaic coastal mangrove forests and upland forests associations. Unlike the former, the Rhizophoraceae are of minor importance.\n\nEcological succession is generally defined as the successive occupation of a site by different plant communities. In an accreting mudflats the outer community along the sequence represents the pioneer community which is gradually replaced by the next community representing the seral stages and finally by a climax community typical of the climatic zone. Robert Scott Troup suggested that succession began in the newly accreted land created by fresh deposits of eroded soil. The pioneer vegetation on these newly accreted sites is \"Sonneratia\", followed by \"Avicennia\" and \"Nypa\". As the ground is elevated as a result of soil deposition, other trees make their appearance. The most prevalent, though one of the late species to appear, is \"Excoecaria\". As the level of land rises through accretion and the land is only occasionally flooded by tides, \"Heritiera fomes\" begins to appear.\n\nA total 245 genera and 334 plant species were recorded by David Prain in 1903. While most of the mangroves in other parts of the world are characterised by members of the Rhizophoraceae, Avicenneaceae or Combretaceae, the mangroves of Bangladesh are dominated by the Malvaceae and Euphorbiaceae.\n\nThe Sundarbans flora is characterised by the abundance of sundari (\"Heritiera fomes\"), gewa (\"Excoecaria agallocha\"), goran (\"Ceriops decandra\") and keora (\"Sonneratia apetala\") all of which occur prominently throughout the area. The characteristic tree of the forest is the \"sundari\" (\"Heritiera littoralis\"), from which the name of the forest had probably been derived. It yields a hard wood, used for building houses and making boats, furniture and other things. New forest accretions is often conspicuously dominated by keora (\"Sonneratia apetala\") and tidal forests. It is an indicator species for newly accreted mudbanks and is an important species for wildlife, especially spotted deer (\"Axis axis\"). There is abundance of dhundul or passur (\"Xylocarpus granatum\") and kankra (\"Bruguiera gymnorhiza\") though distribution is discontinuous. Among palms, \"Poresia coaractata\", \"Myriostachya wightiana\" and golpata (\"Nypa fruticans\"), and among grasses spear grass (\"Imperata cylindrica\") and khagra (\"Phragmites karka\") are well distributed.\n\nThe varieties of the forests that exist in Sundarbans include mangrove scrub, littoral forest, saltwater mixed forest, brackish water mixed forest and swamp forest. Besides the forest, there are extensive areas of brackish water and freshwater marshes, intertidal mudflats, sandflats, sand dunes with typical dune vegetation, open grassland on sandy soils and raised areas supporting a variety of terrestrial shrubs and trees. Since Prain's report there have been considerable changes in the status of various mangrove species and taxonomic revision of the man-grove flora. However, very little exploration of the botanical nature of the Sundarbans has been made to keep up with these changes. Differences in vegetation have been explained in terms of freshwater and low salinity influences in the Northeast and variations in drainage and siltation. The Sundarbans has been classified as a moist tropical forest demonstrating a whole mosaic of seres, comprising primary colonisation on new accretions to more mature beach forests. Historically vegetation types have been recognised in broad correlation with varying degrees of water salinity, freshwater flushing and physiography.\n\nThe Sundarbans provides a unique ecosystem and a rich wildlife habitat. According to the 2015 tiger census in Bangladesh, and the 2011 tiger census in India, the Sundarbans have about 180 tigers (106 in Bangladesh and 74 in India). Earlier estimates, based on counting unique pugmarks, were much higher. The more recent counts have used camera traps, an improved methodology that yields more accurate results. Tiger attacks are frequent in the Sundarbans. Between 0 and 50 people are killed each year.\n\nThere is much more wildlife here than just the endangered Bengal tiger (\"Panthera tigris tigris\"). Most importantly, mangroves are a transition from the marine to freshwater and terrestrial systems, and provide critical habitat for numerous species of small fish, crabs, shrimps and other crustaceans that adapt to feed and shelter, and reproduce among the tangled mass of roots, known as pneumatophores, which grow upward from the anaerobic mud to get the supply of oxygen. Fishing cats, macaques, wild boars, common grey mongooses, foxes, jungle cats, flying foxes, pangolins, and spotted deer are also found in abundance in the Sundarbans.\n\nA 1991 study has revealed that the Indian part of the Sundarbans supports diverse biological resources including at least 150 species of commercially important fish, 270 species of birds, 42 species of mammals, 35 reptiles and 8 amphibian species, although new ones are being discovered. This represents a significant proportion of the species present in Bangladesh (i.e. about 30% of the reptiles, 37% the birds and 34% of the mammals) and includes many species which are now extinct elsewhere in the country. Two amphibians, 14 reptiles, 25 aves and five mammals are endangered. The Sundarbans is an important wintering area for migrant water birds and is an area suitable for watching and studying avifauna.\n\nThe management of wildlife is restricted to, firstly, the protection of fauna from poaching, and, secondly, designation of some areas as wildlife sanctuaries where no extraction of forest produce is allowed and where the wildlife face few disturbances. Although the fauna of Bangladesh have diminished in recent times and the Sundarbans has not been spared from this decline, the mangrove forest retains several good wildlife habitats and their associated fauna. Of these, the tiger and dolphin are target species for planning wildlife management and tourism development. There are high profile and vulnerable mammals living in two contrasting environments, and their statuses and management are strong indicators of the general condition and management of wildlife. Some species are protected by legislation, notably by the Bangladesh Wildlife (Preservation) Order, 1973 (P.O. 23 of 1973).\n\nThe fertile soils of the delta have been subject to intensive human use for centuries, and the ecoregion has been mostly converted to intensive agriculture, with few enclaves of forest remaining. The remaining forests, together with the Sundarbans mangroves, are important habitats for the Bengal tiger (\"Panthera tigris tigris\"). The forest also provides habitat for small wild cats such as the jungle cat (\"Felis chaus\"), fishing cat (\"Prionailurus viverrinus\"), and leopard cat (\"P. bengalensis\").\n\nSeveral predators dwell in the labyrinth of channels, branches and roots that poke up into the air. This is the only mangrove ecoregion that harbours the Indo-Pacific region's largest terrestrial predator, the Bengal tiger. Unlike in other habitats, tigers live here and swim among the mangrove islands, where they hunt scarce prey such as the chital deer (\"Axis axis\"), Indian muntjacs (\"Muntiacus muntjak\"), wild boar (\"Sus scrofa\"), and rhesus macaque (\"Macaca mulatta\"). It is estimated that there are now 180 Bengal tigers and about 30,000 spotted deer in the area. The tigers regularly attack and kill humans who venture into the forest, human deaths ranging from 30–100 per year.\n\nThe forest is also rich in bird life, with 286 species including the endemic brown-winged kingfishers (\"Pelargopsis amauroptera\") and the globally threatened lesser adjutants (\"Leptoptilos javanicus\") and masked finfoots (\"Heliopais personata\") and birds of prey such as the ospreys (\"Pandion haliaetus\"), white-bellied sea eagles (\"Haliaeetus leucogaster\") and grey-headed fish eagles (\"Ichthyophaga ichthyaetus\"). The Sundarbans was designated a Ramsar site on 21 May 1992. Some more popular birds found in this region are open billed storks, black-headed ibis, water hens, coots, pheasant-tailed jacanas, pariah kites, brahminy kites, marsh harriers, swamp partridges, red junglefowls, spotted doves, common mynahs, jungle crows, jungle babblers, cotton teals, herring gulls, Caspian terns, gray herons, brahminy ducks, spot-billed pelicans, great egrets, night herons, common snipes, wood sandpipers, green pigeons, rose-ringed parakeets, paradise flycatchers, cormorants, white-bellied sea eagles, seagulls, common kingfishers, peregrine falcons, woodpeckers, whimbrels, black-tailed godwits, little stints, eastern knots, curlews, golden plovers, pintails, white-eyed pochards and lesser whistling ducks.\n\nThe Sundarbans National Park is home to olive ridley turtle, hawksbill turtle, green turtle, sea snake, dog-faced water snake, estuarine crocodile, chameleon, king cobra, Russell's viper, house gecko, monitor lizard, pythons, common krait, green vine snake, checkered keelback and rat snake. The river terrapin, Indian flap-shelled turtle (\"Lissemys punctata\"), peacock soft-shelled turtle (\"Trionyx hurum\"), \"yellow monitor\", Asian water monitor, and Indian python.\nFish and amphibians found in the Sundarbans include sawfish, butter fish, electric ray, common carp, silver carp, barb, river eels, starfish, king crab, fiddler crab, hermit crab, prawn, shrimps, Gangetic dolphins, skipping frogs, common toads and tree frogs. One particularly interesting fish is the mudskipper, a gobioid that climbs out of the water into mudflats and even climbs trees.\n\nForest inventories reveal a decline in standing volume of the two main commercial mangrove species – sundari (\"Heritiera\" spp.) and gewa (\"Excoecaria agallocha\") — by 40% and 45% respectively between 1959 and 1983. Despite a total ban on all killing or capture of wildlife other than fish and some invertebrates, it appears that there is a consistent pattern of depleted biodiversity or loss of species (notably at least six mammals and one important reptile) in the 20th century, and that the \"ecological quality of the original mangrove forest is declining\".\n\nThe endangered species that live within the Sundarbans and extinct species that used to be include the royal Bengal tigers, estuarine crocodile, northern river terrapins (\"Batagur baska\"), olive ridley sea turtles, Gangetic dolphin, ground turtles, hawksbill sea turtles and king crabs (horse shoe). Some species such as hog deer (\"Axis porcinus\"), water buffalos (\"Bubalus bubalis\"), barasingha or swamp deer (\"Cervus duvauceli\"), Javan rhinoceros (\"Rhinoceros sondaicus\"), single horned rhinoceros (\"Rhinoceros unicornis\") and the mugger crocodiles or marsh crocodiles (\"Crocodylus palustris\") started to become extinct in the Sundarbans towards the middle of the 20th century, because of extensive poaching and man hunting by the British. There are other threatened mammal species, such as the capped langurs (\"Semnopithecus pileatus\"), smooth-coated otters (\"Lutrogale perspicillata\"), Oriental small-clawed otters (\"Aonyx cinerea\"), and great Bengal civets (\"Viverra zibetha\").\n\nThe physical development processes along the coast are influenced by a multitude of factors, comprising wave motions, micro and macro-tidal cycles and long shore currents typical to the coastal tract. The shore currents vary greatly along with the monsoon. These are also affected by cyclonic action. Erosion and accretion through these forces maintains varying levels, as yet not properly measured, of physiographic change whilst the mangrove vegetation itself provides a remarkable stability to the entire system. During each monsoon season almost all the Bengal Delta is submerged, much of it for half a year. The sediment of the lower delta plain is primarily advected inland by monsoonal coastal setup and cyclonic events. One of the greatest challenges people living on the Ganges Delta may face in coming years is the threat of rising sea levels caused mostly by subsidence in the region and partly by climate change.\n\nIn many of the Bangladesh's mangrove wetlands, freshwater reaching the mangroves was considerably reduced from the 1970s because of diversion of freshwater in the upstream area by neighbouring India through the use of the Farakka Barrage bordering Rajshahi, Bangladesh. Also, the Bengal Basin is slowly tilting towards the east because of neo-tectonic movement, forcing greater freshwater input to the Bangladesh Sundarbans. As a result, the salinity of the Bangladesh Sundarbans is much lower than that of the Indian side. A 1990 study noted that there \"is no evidence that environmental degradation in the Himalayas or a 'greenhouse' induced rise in sea level have aggravated floods in Bangladesh\"; however, a 2007 report by UNESCO, \"Case Studies on Climate Change and World Heritage\" has stated that an anthropogenic rise in sea level (likely by the end of the 21st century, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), combined with other forms of anthropogenic stress on the Sundarbans, could lead to the destruction of 75 percent of the Sundarbans mangroves. Already, Lohachara Island and New Moore Island/South Talpatti Island have disappeared under the sea, and Ghoramara Island is half submerged.\n\nIn a study conducted in 2012, the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) found out that the Sunderban coast was retreating up to in a year. Agricultural activities had destroyed around of mangroves within three decades (1975–2010). Shrimp cultivation had destroyed another .\n\nResearches from the School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University, estimated the annual rise in sea level to be in 2010. It had doubled from recorded in 2000. The rising sea levels had also submerged around of forest areas. This, coupled with an around rise in surface water temperatures and increased levels of salinity have posed a problem for the survival of the indigenous flora and fauna. The Sundari trees are exceptionally sensitive to salinity and are being threatened with extinction.\n\nLoss of the mangrove forest will result in the loss of the protective biological shield against cyclones and tsunamis. This may put the surrounding coastal communities at high risk. Moreover, the submergence of land mass have rendered up to 6,000 families homeless and around 70,000 people are immediately threatened with the same. This is causing the flight of human capital to the mainland, about 13% in the decade of 2000–2010.\n\nA 2015 ethnographic study, conducted by a team of researchers from Heiderberg university in Germany, found a crisis brewing in the Sunderbans. The study contended that poor planning on the part of the India and Bangladesh governments coupled with natural ecological changes were forcing the flight of human capital from the region \n\nAccording to a report created by UNESCO, the landfall of Cyclone Sidr damaged around 40% of Sundarbans in 2007.\n\nIn August 2010, a \"Memorandum of Understanding\" was signed between Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) and India's state-owned National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) where they designated to implement the coal-fired Rampal power station by 2016. The proposed project, on an area of over 1,834 acres of land, is situated 14 kilometres north of the Sundarbans. This project violates the environmental impact assessment guidelines for coal-based thermal power plants. Environmental activists contend that the proposed location of the Rampal Station would violate provisions of the Ramsar Convention. The government of Bangladesh rejected the allegations that the coal-based power plant would adversely affect the world's largest mangrove forest.\n\nOn 9 December 2014 an oil-tanker named \"Southern Star VII\", carrying of furnace oil, was sunk in the Sela river of Sundarbans after it had been hit by a cargo vessel. The oil spread over area after the clash, as of 17 December. The slick spread to a second river and a network of canals in the Sundarbans and blackened the shoreline. The event was very threatening to trees, plankton, vast populations of small fishes and dolphins. The event occurred at a protected Sundarbans mangrove area, home to rare Irrawaddy and Ganges dolphins. Until 15 December 2014 only of oil from the area were cleaned up by local residents, Bangladesh Navy and the government of Bangladesh. Some reports indicated that the event killed some wildlife. On 13 December 2014, a dead Irrawaddy dolphin was seen floating on the Harintana-Tembulbunia channel of the Sela River.\n\nThe Sundarbans plays an important role in the economy of the southwestern region of Bangladesh as well as in the national economy. It is the single largest source of forest produce in the country. The forest provides raw materials for wood-based industries. In addition to traditional forest produce like timber, fuelwood, pulpwood etc., large-scale harvest of non-wood forest products such as thatching materials, honey, beeswax, fish, crustacean and mollusc resources of the forest takes place regularly. The vegetated tidal lands of the Sundarbans function as an essential habitat, produces nutrients and purifies water. The forest also traps nutrient and sediment, acts as a storm barrier, shore stabiliser and energy storage unit. Last but not the least, the Sunderbans provides an aesthetic attraction for local and foreign tourists.\n\nThe forest has immense protective and productive functions. Constituting 51% of the total reserved forest estate of Bangladesh, it contributes about 41% of total forest revenue and accounts for about 45% of all timber and fuel wood output of the country. A number of industries (e.g., newsprint mill, match factory, hardboard, boat building, furniture making) are based on raw materials obtained from the Sundarbans ecosystem. Non-timber forest products and plantations help generate considerable employment and income opportunities for at least half a million poor coastal people. It provides natural protection to life and properties of the coastal population in cyclone-prone Bangladesh.\n\nPart of the Sunderbans is shielded from tidal inflow by levees and there one finds villages and agriculture. During the monsoon season, the low lying agricultural lands are waterlogged and the summer crop (\"kharif\" crop) is therefore mainly deepwater rice or floating rice. In the dry winter season the land is normally uncropped and used for cattle grazing. However, the lands near the villages are irrigated from ponds that were filled up during monsoon, and vegetable crops (\"rabi\" crops) can be grown here.\n\nThe Sundarbans has a population of over 4 million but much of it is mostly free of permanent human habitation. Despite human habitations and a century of economic exploitation of the forest well into the late 1940s, the Sundarbans retained a forest closure of about 70% according to the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom in 1979.\n\nThe Sundarbans area is one of the most densely populated in the world, and the population is increasing. As a result, half of this ecoregion's mangrove forests have been cut down to supply fuelwood and other natural resources. Despite the intense and large-scale exploitation, this still is one of the largest contiguous areas of mangroves in the world. Another threat comes from deforestation and water diversion from the rivers inland, which causes far more silt to be brought to the estuary, clogging up the waterways.\n\nThe Directorate of Forest is responsible for the administration and management of Sundarban National Park in West Bengal. The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF), Wildlife & Bio-Diversity & ex-officio Chief Wildlife Warden, West Bengal is the senior most executive officer looking over the administration of the park. The Chief Conservator of Forests (South) & Director, Sundarban Biosphere Reserve is the administrative head of the park at the local level and is assisted by a Deputy Field Director and an Assistant Field Director. The park area is divided into two ranges, overseen by range forest officers. Each range is further sub-divided into beats. The park also has floating watch stations and camps to protect the property from poachers.\n\nThe park receives financial aid from the State Government as well as the Ministry of Environment and Forests under various Plan and Non-Plan Budgets. Additional funding is received under the Project Tiger from the Central Government. In 2001, a grant of US$20,000 was received as a preparatory assistance for promotion between India and Bangladesh from the World Heritage Fund.\n\nA new Khulna Forest Circle was created in Bangladesh back in 1993 to preserve the forest, and Chief Conservators of Forests have been posted since. The direct administrative head of the Division is the Divisional Forest Officer, based at Khulna, who has a number of professional, subprofessional and support staff and logistic supports for the implementation of necessary management and administrative activities. The basic unit of management is the compartment. There are 55 compartments in four Forest Ranges and these are clearly demarcated mainly by natural features such as rivers, canals and creeks.\n\nThe Bangladesh part of the forest lies under two forest divisions, and four administrative ranges viz Chandpai (Khulna District), Sarankhola (Khulna), and Burigoalini (Satkhira District) and has sixteen forest stations. It is further divided into fifty-five compartments and nine blocks. There are three wildlife sanctuaries established in 1977 under the Bangladesh Wildlife (Preservation) Order, 1973 (P.O. 23 of 1973). The West Bengal part of the forest lies under the district of South & North 24 Parganas.\n\nProtected areas cover 15% of the Sundarbans mangroves including Sundarbans National Park and Sajnakhali Wildlife Sanctuary, in West Bengal, Sundarbans East, Sundarbans South and Sundarbans West Wildlife Sanctuaries in Bangladesh.\n\nThe Sundarban National Park is a National Park, Tiger Reserve, and a Biosphere Reserve in West Bengal, India. It is part of the Sundarbans on the Ganges Delta, and adjacent to the Sundarbans Reserve Forest in Bangladesh. The delta is densely covered by mangrove forests, and is one of the largest reserves for the Bengal tiger. It is also home to a variety of bird, reptile and invertebrate species, including the salt-water crocodile. The present Sundarbans National Park was declared as the core area of Sundarbans Tiger Reserve in 1973 and a wildlife sanctuary in 1977. On 4 May 1984 it was declared a National Park.\n\nSundarbans West Wildlife Sanctuary is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The region supports mangroves, including: sparse stands of Gewa (\"Excoecaria agallocha\") and dense stands of Goran (\"Ceriops tagal\"), with discontinuous patches of Hantal palm (\"Phoenix paludosa\") on drier ground, river banks and levees. The fauna of the sanctuary is very diverse with some 40 species of mammals, 260 species of birds and 35 species of reptiles. The greatest of these being the Bengal tiger of which an estimated 350 remain in the Bangladesh Sundarbans. Other large mammals are wild boar, chital horin (spotted deer), Indian otter and macaque monkey. Five species of marine turtles frequent the coastal zone and two endangered reptiles are present – the estuarine crocodile and the Indian python.\n\nSundarbans East Wildlife Sanctuary extends over an area of . Sundari trees (\"Heritiera fomes\") dominate the flora, interspersed with Gewa (\"Excoecaria agallocha\") and Passur (\"Xylocarpus mekongensis\") with Kankra (\"Bruguiera gymnorhiza\") occurring in areas subject to more frequent flooding. There is an understory of Shingra (\"Cynometra ramiflora\") where, soils are drier and Amur (\"Aglaia cucullata\") in wetter areas and Goran (\"Ceriops decandra\") in more saline places. Nypa palm (\"Nypa fruticans\") is widespread along drainage lines.\n\nSundarbans South Wildlife Sanctuary extends over an area of . There is evidently the greatest seasonal variation in salinity levels and possibly represents an area of relatively longer duration of moderate salinity where Gewa (\"Excoecaria agallocha\") is the dominant woody species. It is often mixed with Sundri, which is able to displace in circumstances such as artificially opened canopies where Sundri does not regenerate as effectively. It is also frequently associated with a dense understory of Goran (\"Ceriops tagal\") and sometimes Passur.\n\nSajnakhali Wildlife Sanctuary is a area in the northern part of the Sundarbans delta in South 24 Parganas district, West Bengal, India. The area is mainly mangrove scrub, forest and swamp. It was set up as a sanctuary in 1976. It is home to a rich population of different species of wildlife, such as water fowl, heron, pelican, spotted deer, rhesus macaques, wild boar, tigers, water monitor lizards, fishing cats, otters, olive ridley turtles, crocodiles, batagur terrapins, and migratory birds.\n\nThe Sundarbans is celebrated through numerous Bengali folk songs and dances, often centred around the folk heroes, gods and goddesses specific to the Sunderbans (like Bonbibi and Dakshin Rai) and to the Lower Gangetic Delta (like Manasa and Chand Sadagar). The Bengali folk epic Manasamangal mentions \"Netidhopani\" and has some passages set in the Sundarbans during the heroine Behula's quest to bring her husband \"Lakhindar\" back to life.\n\nThe area provides the setting for several novels by Emilio Salgari, (e.g. \"The Mystery of the Black Jungle\"). \"Sundarbaney Arjan Sardar\", a novel by Shibshankar Mitra, and \"Padma Nadir Majhi\", a novel by Manik Bandopadhyay, are based on the rigors of lives of villagers and fishermen living in the Sunderbans region, and are woven into the Bengali psyche to a great extent. Part of the plot of Salman Rushdie's Booker Prize winning novel, \"Midnight's Children\" is set in the Sundarbans. This forest is adopted as the setting of Kunal Basu's short story \"The Japanese Wife\" and the subsequent film adaptation. Most of the plot of an internationally acclaimed novelist, Amitav Ghosh's 2004 novel, \"The Hungry Tide\", is set in the Sundarbans. The plot centres on a headstrong American cetologist who arrives to study a rare species of river dolphin, enlisting a local fisherman and translator to aid her. The book also mentions two accounts of the Bonbibi story of \"Dukhey's Redemption\". Manik Bandopadhyay's \"Padma Nadir Majhi\" was made into a movie by Goutam Ghose.\n\nThe Sunderbans has been the subject of a detailed and well-researched scholarly work on Bonbibi (a 'forest goddess' venerated by Hindus), on the relation between the islanders and tigers and on conservation and how it is perceived by the inhabitants of the Sundarbans, as well as numerous non-fiction books, including \"The Man-Eating Tigers of Sundarbans\" by Sy Montegomery for a young audience, which was shortlisted for the Dorothy Canfield Fisher Children's Book Award. In \"Up The Country\", Emily Eden discusses her travels through the Sunderbans. Numerous documentary movies have been made about the Sunderbans, including the 2003 IMAX production \"Shining Bright\" about the Bengal tiger. The acclaimed BBC TV series \"Ganges\" documents the lives of villagers, especially honey collectors, in the Sundarbans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23234494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23234494", "title": "São Gabriel (ship)", "text": "São Gabriel (ship)\n\nThe São Gabriel was the flagship of Vasco da Gama's armada on his first voyage to India in 1497-1499.\n\nVelho indicated that the sources agreed that the armada contained four ships, but there was disagreement about the names. These were the other three ships according to him:\n\nThe provisions of the convoy were based on the expectation that the voyage would last 3 years; also merchandise intended for the Indian market was brought along. This merchandise included wash basins, clothes, sugar, honey, corals, glass beads and trinkets, and turned out to be neither adequate in quality nor in quantity for its purpose. Daily rations were calculated to be 1.5 pounds biscuit, 1 lb beef or 0.5 lb of pork, 2.5 pints water, 1.25 pints wine (customary, also against scurvy), plus 0.3 gill of vinegar, and 0.6 gill of oil. On fasting days meat was substituted by rice, fish, or cheese. Other provisions included flour, lentils, sardines, plums, almonds, garlic, mustard, salt, honey, sugar. Also, fresh fish was caught en route, and supplies were replenished in harbors including oranges (against scurvy).\n\nThe ships also carried a number of padrões, pillars of stone headed by the cross and bearing the seal of Portugal and used as markers to claim land.\n\nThe armada left Restelo, Lisbon on July 8, 1497. After rounding the Cape of Good Hope, the armada anchored at the Aguada de São Brás (Mossel Bay) where the supply ship was broken up and its contents distributed on the others. The three ships sailed further North along the African coast to Malindi, East Africa. After crossing the Indian Ocean they reached the harbor of Calicut at the Malabar coast in India on May 20, 1498.\n\nThe return crossing of the Indian Ocean took over three months and many of the crew members got sick from scurvy and died. With a diminished crew the \"São Rafael\" became superfluous; the vessel was burned at East Africa after the transfer of its crew and provisions. The remaining two vessels got caught in a storm near the Cape Verde islands and separated. At that time both ships were leaking and in poor shape.\n\nThe \"Bérrio\" under Nicolau Coelho's command arrived at Cascais near Lisbon on July 10, 1499, and the \"São Gabriel\" without Gama and directed by João de Sá came in one month later. Gama had left the \"São Gabriel\" on its final leg and commissioned another vessel to bring him with his dying brother Paulo to the Azores before he returned to Portugal in early September, 1499.\n\n\"São Gabriel\" is depicted in the 2011 Indian film, \"Vasco da Gama\".\n"}
{"id": "26518362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26518362", "title": "The Floridas", "text": "The Floridas\n\nThe Floridas was a region of the southeastern United States comprising the historical colonies of East Florida and West Florida. The borders of East and West Florida varied. In 1783, when Spain acquired West Florida and re-acquired East Florida from Great Britain through the Peace of Paris (1783), the eastern British boundary of West Florida was the Apalachicola River, but Spain in 1785 moved it eastward to the Suwannee River. The purpose was to transfer San Marcos and the district of Apalachee from East Florida to West Florida. From 1810 to 1813, the United States extended piecemeal control over the part of West Florida that comprised the modern-day Gulf coasts of Alabama and Mississippi and the Florida Parishes of Louisiana. After the ratification of the Adams-Onis Treaty in 1821 the United States combined East Florida and what had been the remaining Spanish-controlled rump of West Florida into the territory that comprised modern-day Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "2974156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2974156", "title": "Tuat", "text": "Tuat\n\nTuat, or Touat (Berber: ⵜⵓⵡⴰⵜ, \"Tuwat\"), is a natural region of desert in central Algeria that contains a string of small oases. In the past, the oases were important for caravans crossing the Sahara.\n\nTuat lies to the south of the Grand Erg Occidental, to the east of the Erg Chech and to the south east of the Tademaït Plateau. It contains a string of small oases strung out along the eastern edge of the Wadi Messaoud, a continuation of the Wadi Saoura. The oases extend over a distance of 160 km from the district of Bouda in the north to Reggane in the south. The largest town in the region is Adrar, 20 km south east of Bouda. Adrar was established by the French after their conquest in 1900 and had a population of 43,903 in 2002. Associated with each oasis are small walled villages called \"ksour\" (singular \"ksar\" or \"gsar\"). There are also some forts (\"kasbahs\"), most of which have been abandoned.\n\nThere is almost no rainfall in the region and the agriculture depends on groundwater from the Continental Intercalary (\"Continental Intercalaire\" in French), an enormous aquifer that extends for over 600,000 km, an area that includes parts of Algeria, Libya and Tunisia. The Continental Intercalary is a layer of porous sandstone deposited between the Moscovian and the Cenomanian periods. It forms the deeper of the two aquifers of the North Western Sahara Aquifer System (NWSAS). Tuat is situated at the south western boundary of the Continental Intercalary where the aquifer lies only 2–6 m below the surface.\n\nThe oases contain 700,000-800,000 date palms (\"Phoenix dactylifera\") in an area of 4,500 hectare. The palm groves are irrigated by a system of \"foggara\"s. These are traditional gravity catchment systems which consist of a tunnel constructed with a gentle uphill gradient from the low ground near the wadi into the aquifer lying under the nearby higher ground. Vertical access holes every 10–20 m along the tunnel provide ventilation and facilitate the construction and maintenance. Many of the \"foggaras\" are over a kilometre in length. They typically provide flow rates of between 2 L/s and 3 L/s. In 1963 the region of Tuat contained 531 \"foggaras\" of which only 358 were functioning. The total combined flow rate was approximately 2000 L/s. Foggaras are expensive to construct and to maintain. As they collapse they are often not repaired. Instead, water is obtained using vertical wells and electric pumps allowing grain to be grown using a center pivot irrigation system. A single well can provide 30 L/s to 50 L/s of water.\n\nIn addition to water, the rock beneath Tuat contains pockets of natural gas. Sonatrach, the Algeria state-owned oil company, is collaborating with foreign companies in joint ventures to exploit these gas reserves. Sonatrach and the China National Oil & Gas Exploration & Development Corporation (CNODC) have constructed a refinery near the village of Sbaa, 40 km north of Adrar. This began operating in 2006. Separate projects led by Gaz de France (GDF Suez) and Total are both scheduled to start supplying gas in 2013. A pipeline is being built to connect to Hassi R'Mel.\n\nTo the north of Tuat is Gourara, a similar region also containing oases with date palms irrigated by \"foggaras\". The largest town, Timimoun, is 162 km north east of Adrar.\n\nThe Tuat oases were important in the trans-Saharan trade because of their location at the northern end of the Tanezrouft route. Reggane is around 1150 km north of the town of Gao and a similar distance from Timbuktu. Caravans from the Sudan would continue northwards to towns such as Sijilmasa or Tlemcen.\n\nThe oases are not mentioned by any of the early Arabic geographers, but it appears that Jews lived in the oases at an early date as a tombstone discovered in a village of the Bouda region has an inscription in Hebrew with a date of 1329.\n\nThe earliest written reference to Tuat is by Ibn Battuta. He visited Bouda in 1353 after crossing the Sahara from Takedda in present-day Niger, a distance of 1390 km. He travelled with a large caravan that included 600 slave girls. He wrote: \"Then we arrived at Būda, which is one of the biggest villages of the Tuwāt. Its land consists of sand and salt pans. It has many dates which are not good, but its people prefer them to the dates of Sijilmāsa. There is no cultivation there nor butter nor oil. Oil is only imported to it from the land of the Maghrib. The food of its people is dates and locusts. These are abundant with them; they store them as dates are stored and use them for food. They go out to hunt them before sunrise, for at that time they do not fly on account of the cold.\" Ibn Battuta stayed in Bouda for a few days and then continued on to Sijilmasa with a caravan.\n\nBouda, as well as Sijilmasa, Timbuktu and Gao, are marked on the 1375 Catalan Atlas of Abraham Cresques. At some point Bouda was abandoned and replaced by Tamentit as the main \"ksour\" of the region. Tamentit was more centrally situated and perhaps easier to defend. The Arabic geographer and historian Ibn Khaldun (born Tunis 1332, died Egypt 1406) provides a description of Tuat, a place he had not visited himself, in his \"Kitab al-'Ibar\":\nOne of their homelands lies three stages to the south of Sijilmāsa and is called Tuwāt. It consists of 200 \"qușūr\" strung out from west to east, of which the most easterly is called Tamanțīt, nowadays a flourishing place and a point of departure for merchants who pass to and fro between the Maghrib and the land of Māli of the Sūdān. ... The town of Būdā, the most westerly of these \"qușūr\", used to be the point of departure for Wālātan, the outpost of the Mālī territory, but it was abandoned when the bedouin Arabs from the desert of the Sūs took to acts of brigandry on the highway and molesting the caravans. They left that place and followed the route to the land of the Sudān by way of Tamanțīt.\n\nNote that in reality Adrar is 540 km southwest of Sijilmasa, considerably more than the three stages mentioned by Ibn Khaldun. Also, the oases are strung out from north-northwest to south-southeast rather than from west to east.\n\nWe learn more about Tuat from a letter written in Latin in 1447 by the Italian Antonio Malfante from 'Tueto' to a merchant in Genoa. Malfante describes a village which is believed to be Tamentit: \"This locality is a mart of the country of the Moors, to which merchants come to sell their goods: gold is carried hither, and bought by those who come up from the coast. This place is De Amament [Tamentit], and there are many rich men here. The generality, however, are very poor, for they do not sow, nor do they harvest anything, save the dates upon which they subsist. They eat no meat but that of castrated camels, which are scarce and very dear.\" He also comments on the Jewish population: \"There are many Jews, who lead a good life here, for they are under the protection of the several rulers, each of whom defends his own clients. Thus they enjoy very secure social standing. Trade is in their hands, and many of them are to be trusted with the greatest confidence.\"\n\nAround 1490, encouraged by Muhammad al-Maghili, a Maliki scholar from Tlemcen, the Moslem population of Tamentit destroyed the Jewish synagogue and forced the Jews to move elsewhere.\nSometime between 1583 and 1588 the forces of the Moroccan sultan Ahmad al-Mansur took control of the Tuat and the Gourara oases. The area remained politically dependent upon Morocco but the sovereignty of the Alaouite\nsultans became almost nominal.\n\nIn the 1890s, the French administration and military called for the annexation of the Touat, the Gourara and the Tidikelt, a complex that had been part of the Moroccan Empire for many centuries prior to the arrival of the French in Algeria.\n\nAn armed conflict opposed French 19th Corps Oran and Algiers divisions to the Aït Khabbash, a fraction of the Aït Ounbgui \"khams\" of the Aït Atta confederation. The conflict ended by the annexation of the Touat-Gourara-Tidikelt complex to Algeria by France in 1901.\n\nUnder French rule, the area was known as the \"Territoire des oasis sahariennes\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5074301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074301", "title": "United Nations in popular culture", "text": "United Nations in popular culture\n\nPopular culture references to the United Nations have been made in all media, including film, books and video games. In many instances, the United Nations (or a fictional agency thereof) figures in a storyline. \n"}
