{"id": "38341945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38341945", "title": "Abdullah al-Ghumari", "text": "Abdullah al-Ghumari\n\nAbu al-Fadl Abdullah bin Muhammad bin al-Siddiq al-Ghumari (1910–1993) was a Moroccan preacher, jurist and theologian.\n\nThe Ghumari family descends from Ahl al-Bayt, the family of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Ghumari's bloodline is traced through his father Muhammad, son of Muhammad, son of Ahmad, son of Muhammad, son of Qasim, son of Muhammad, son of Muhammad, son of Abd al-Mu`min, son of Muhammad, son of Abd al-Mu`min, son of Ali, son of al-Hasan, son of Muhammad, son of Abdullah, son of Ahmad, son of Abdullah, son of Isa, son of Mas'ud, son of al-Fudayl, son of Ali ibn Umar, son of Umar, son of al-Arabi Alal, son of Musa, son of Ahmad, son of Dawud, son of Idris II of Fes, son of Idris I of Morocco, son of Abdullah, son of al-Hasan al-Muthana, son of Hasan ibn Ali, son of Ali and Fatimah.\n\nGhumari was born in the Moroccan city of Tangier in 1910, and died in the same city in 1993. As a child, he was primarily educated by his father Muhammad bin al-Siddiq al-Ghumari, also an Islamic scholar. The younger Ghumari memorized the entirety of the Qur'an at an early age, in addition to the Hadith book Bulugh al-Maram along with Alfiya and Ajārūmīya in Arabic grammar.\n\nGhumari later travelled to Fas for his higher education, but then enrolled in the University of al-Karaouine. While there, he also studied Mosque of Uqba, a UNESCO World Heritage Site and important seat of Muslim religious learning. During his study, Ghumari's teachers covered a number of books considered canonical in Sunni Islam, Al-Qastallani's explanation of Sahih al-Bukhari and the works of Khalil ibn Ishaq al-Jundi being two examples. Eventually, Ghumari switched from Karaouine to Al-Azhar University in 1930 and graduating the next year. During his education, Ghumari was a student of Al-Kawthari, of whom Ghumari would later hold extremely negative views.\n\nDue to fears in the wider Arab world regarding the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood in the mid-twentieth century, Ghumari was accused of having ties to a foreign group. In 1961, he was sentenced to ten years in prison, likely due to his time spent in Egypt where the Brotherhood had formed. His older brother, Ahmad al-Ghumari, fell ill upon hearing of his younger brother's long sentence and died eight months later.\n\nLike most of the Ghumari family, Abdullah al-Ghumari was a prolific writer. \n\nGhumari was famous not only for the number of teachers which he had, but also the number of students. Salâh Ud Dîn At Tijânî and Muhammad bin Yahya al-Ninowy is counted as one of Ghumari's more prominent students, as is Hassan al-Kattani.\n\n"}
{"id": "731814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731814", "title": "Aberdeen scandal", "text": "Aberdeen scandal\n\nThe Aberdeen Scandal was a military sexual assault scandal in 1996 at Aberdeen Proving Ground, a United States Army base in Maryland.\n\nUltimately, twelve drill instructors were charged with sex crimes; four were sentenced to prison, while eight others were discharged or received non-judicial punishment. Additionally, \"letters of reprimand were issued to Aberdeen's commanding general and three other senior officers.\"\n\nCaptain Derrick Robertson and Sergeants Delmar Simpson and Nathanael Beech were accused of participating in the army's biggest sex abuse scandal on record. Robertson and Simpson faced rape charges and Beech was charged with adultery.<ref name=\"http://www.cnn.com/US/9612/06/aberdeen.arraign/index.html\">Three soldiers arraigned in U.S. Army sex scandal</ref>\n\nArmy Secretary Togo West accused those charged of abusing their power, and ordered all soldiers to undergo sexual harassment training so they could learn the army's \"zero tolerance\" policy towards sexual harassment.\n\nThe men accused felt that statements made by West and other officials within the army were prejudging the case and would result in an unfair trial. Robertson's attorney, Jerome Murphy, asked the judge, Military Judge Linda Webster, to enact a gag order on West and others, but she deferred judgment. However, she did order prospective jurors not to follow media coverage of the case to avoid interference with their judgment.\n\n\nA separate and unrelated scandal took place in 1996 at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri; charges in that case were announced five days before the Aberdeen scandal became public, and the two cases were reported by the media in tandem. According to Army officials, 22 female soldiers \"were involved in incidents\" in which three men—Staff Sgt. Loren B. Taylor, Staff Sgt. Anthony S. Fore, and Sgt. George W. Blackley Jr.—were charged.\n\nTaylor pleaded guilty to failing to obey a general regulation \"by having consensual sex with three female recruits and trying to have sex with another\" and admitted to \"improper contact with a fifth woman recruit.\" Taylor was \"discharged, demoted and sentenced to confinement.\"\n\nFore pleaded guilty to failing to obey a general regulation, indecent assault, and assault and battery, and a military judge, after hearing testimony, convicting Fore \"of two additional counts of failing to obey a general regulation and indecent assault.\" The Army dropped several other charges. Fore sentenced to eighteen months in prison and was dishonorably discharged.\n\nBlackley was acquitted on charges of failing to obey a general regulation, indecent assault, maltreatment and showing disrespect to a fellow non-commissioned officer.\n\nSince the charges were filed, the U.S. Army set up a hotline to take reports of sexual harassment in the military. It has also made available many resources for soldiers who feel they have been harassed or assaulted.\n\nSupervisors were also barred from having romantic relationships with the soldiers they trained. The Army cited the fact that they cannot be sure if all relationships are consensual due to the nature of a supervisor's power over their trainees.\n\n"}
{"id": "4878340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4878340", "title": "Algorithmic art", "text": "Algorithmic art\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as \"algorithm art\", is art, mostly visual art, of which the design is generated by an algorithm. Algorithmic artists are sometimes called algorists.\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as computer-generated art, is a subset of generative art (generated by an autonomous system) and is related to systems art (influenced by systems theory). Fractal art is an example of algorithmic art.\n\nFor an image of reasonable size, even the simplest algorithms require too much calculation for manual execution to be practical, and they are thus executed on either a single computer or on a cluster of computers. The final output is typically displayed on a computer monitor, printed with a raster-type printer, or drawn using a plotter. Variability can be introduced by using pseudo-random numbers. There is no consensus as to whether the product of an algorithm that operates on an existing image (or on any input other than pseudo-random numbers) can still be considered computer-generated art, as opposed to computer-assisted art.\n\nRoman Verostko argues that Islamic geometric patterns are constructed using algorithms, as are Italian Renaissance paintings which make use of mathematical techniques, in particular linear perspective and proportion.\n\nSome of the earliest known examples of computer-generated algorithmic art were created by Georg Nees, Frieder Nake, A. Michael Noll, Manfred Mohr and in the early 1960s. These artworks were executed by a plotter controlled by a computer, and were therefore computer-generated art but not digital art. The act of creation lay in writing the program, which specified the sequence of actions to be performed by the plotter. Sonia Landy Sheridan established Generative Systems as a program at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1970 in response to social change brought about in part by the computer-robot communications revolution. Her early work with copier and telematic art focused on the differences between the human hand and the algorithm. \n\nAside from the ongoing work of Roman Verostko and his fellow algorists, the next known examples are fractal artworks created in the mid to late 1980s. These are important here because they use a different means of execution. Whereas the earliest algorithmic art was \"drawn\" by a plotter, fractal art simply creates an image in computer memory; it is therefore digital art. The native form of a fractal artwork is an image stored on a computer –this is also true of very nearly all equation art and of most recent algorithmic art in general. However, in a stricter sense \"fractal art\" is not considered algorithmic art, because the algorithm is not devised by the artist.\n\nIn light of such ongoing developments, pioneer algorithmic artist Ernest Edmonds has documented the continuing prophetic role of art in human affairs by tracing the early 1960s association between art and the computer up to a present time in which the algorithm is now widely recognized as a key concept for society as a whole. \n\nFrom one point of view, for a work of art to be considered algorithmic art, its creation must include a process based on an algorithm devised by the artist. Here, an algorithm is simply a detailed recipe for the design and possibly execution of an artwork, which may include computer code, functions, expressions, or other input which ultimately determines the form the art will take. This input may be mathematical, computational, or generative in nature. Inasmuch as algorithms tend to be deterministic, meaning that their repeated execution would always result in the production of identical artworks, some external factor is usually introduced. This can either be a random number generator of some sort, or an external body of data (which can range from recorded heartbeats to frames of a movie.) Some artists also work with organically based gestural input which is then modified by an algorithm. By this definition, fractals made by a fractal program are not art, as humans are not involved. However, defined differently, algorithmic art can be seen to include fractal art, as well as other varieties such as those using genetic algorithms. The artist Kerry Mitchell stated in his 1999 \"Fractal Art Manifesto\":\n\n\"Algorist\" is a term used for digital artists who create algorithmic art.\n\nAlgorists formally began correspondence and establishing their identity as artists following a panel titled \"Art and Algorithms\" at SIGGRAPH in 1995. The co-founders were Jean-Pierre Hébert and Roman Verostko. Hébert is credited with coining the term and its definition, which is in the form of his own algorithm:\n\nCellular automata can be used to generate artistic patterns with an appearance of randomness, or to modify images such as photographs by applying a transformation such as the stepping stone rule (to give an impressionist style) repeatedly until the desired artistic effect is achieved. Their use has also been explored in music.\n\nFractal art consists of varieties of computer-generated fractals with colouring chosen to give an attractive effect. Especially in the western world, it is not drawn or painted by hand. It is usually created indirectly with the assistance of fractal-generating software, iterating through three phases: setting parameters of appropriate fractal software; executing the possibly lengthy calculation; and evaluating the product. In some cases, other graphics programs are used to further modify the images produced. This is called post-processing. Non-fractal imagery may also be integrated into the artwork.\n\nGenetic or evolutionary art makes use of genetic algorithms to develop images iteratively, selecting at each \"generation\" according to a rule defined by the artist.\n\nAlgorithmic art is not only produced by computers. Wendy Chun explains:\n\nThe American artist, Jack Ox, has used algorithms to produce paintings that are visualizations of music without using a computer. Two examples are \"visual performances\" of extant scores, such as Anton Bruckner's Eighth Symphony and Kurt Schwitters' \"Ursonate\". Later, she and her collaborator, Dave Britton, created the 21st Century Virtual Color Organ that does use computer coding and algorithms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3525925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3525925", "title": "An Honest Thief", "text": "An Honest Thief\n\nAn Honest Thief (, \"Chestny vor\") is an 1848 short story by Fyodor Dostoyevsky. The story recounts the tale of the tragic drunkard, Emelyan Ilyitch.\n\nThe story opens with the narrator taking on a lodger in his apartment, an old soldier named Astafy Ivanovich. One day, a thief steals the narrator's coat, and Astafy tries to pursue him unsuccessfully. Astafy is dismayed by the theft and goes over the scenario over and over again. The narrator and Astafy share a distinct contempt for thieves, and one night Astafy tells the narrator a story of an honest thief that he had once run across.\n\nOne night in a pub, Astafy Ivanovich happened upon Emelyan Ilyitch. The two knew each other on beforehand, but now Emelyan was obviously poor from the look of his tattered coat. He was aching for a drink but had not the money. Astafy was moved by Emelyan's acutely pathetic position, and he bought him a drink. From then on, Emelyan followed Astafy everywhere, eventually moving into his apartment. Astafy did not have much money himself, but he allowed Emelyan's imposition because he was very aware that his drinking was a terrible problem. Emelyan would not stop his drinking, however, and even though he was quiet and not disruptive when he was drunk, Astafy could see that Emelyan would never be able to support himself with such a habit. Astafy urged him to quit drinking, but to no avail. Eventually, Astafy effectively gave up on him and moved, never expecting to see Emelyan again.\n\nVery soon after Astafy had moved Emelyan appears at his new apartment, and the two continue to go on as they had before. Astafy would support Emelyan with food and lodging, and Emelyan would always go out and come back drunk. Sometimes he would disappear for days only to return drunk and almost frozen.\n\nAstafy, now working as a tailor, was short on money. One of his projects, a pair of riding breeches for a wealthy customer, were never claimed. He thought he could sell the breeches to get money for more useful clothes and some food, but when he decided to sell the breeches, they were nowhere to be found. Emelyan was drunk as usual, and denied the theft. Astafy was terribly vexed by the theft, and kept looking for the breeches while still suspicious of Emelyan. Emelyan always denied the theft.\n\nOne day, Astafy and Emelyan had a terrible fight over the breeches and Emelyan's drinking, and Emelyan left the apartment and did not return for days. Astafy even went to look for him one day with no luck. Eventually, after a couple of days, Emelyan returned, almost starved and frozen. Astafy took him back in, but it was clear that Emelyan's days were numbered. Days later, after Emelyan's health had deteriorated terribly, Emelyan wanted to tell Astafy something about the breeches. With his last words, Emelyan admitted to stealing the breeches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24309080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24309080", "title": "Arabic Sciences and Philosophy", "text": "Arabic Sciences and Philosophy\n\nArabic Sciences and Philosophy, subtitled \"A Historical Journal\", is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Cambridge University Press. The journal deals with the history of Arabic science, mathematics and philosophy between the 8th and the 18th centuries in a cross-cultural context. It publishes original papers on the history of these disciplines as well as studies of the relations between Arabic sciences and philosophy, with Greek, Indian, Chinese, Latin, Byzantine, Syriac, and Hebrew sciences and philosophy. The journal was established in 1991 and is published twice a year.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed by International Bibliography of Periodical Literature, International Bibliography of Book Reviews of Scholarly Literature, and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "11674594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11674594", "title": "Arkana Publishing", "text": "Arkana Publishing\n\nArkana Publishing (or Penguin Arkana or just Arkana) is a publishing imprint of Penguin Group of mainly esoteric literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "28921857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28921857", "title": "Artwork (graphic arts)", "text": "Artwork (graphic arts)\n\nArtwork (also known as art layoutdrawing) is a type of drawing that serves a graphical representation of an image for its reproduction onto a substrate via various processes, such as silkscreen, label making and other printing methods. Transfer of the image often involves a photographic process.\n\nHistorically, some types of artworks were prepared on clear polyester drafting film or similar media for strength, durability and dimensional stability. Modern artwork may be stored electronically, such as those created in Adobe Illustrator file format (.ai).\n\n"}
{"id": "26044860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26044860", "title": "Automatic acquisition of sense-tagged corpora", "text": "Automatic acquisition of sense-tagged corpora\n\nThe knowledge acquisition bottleneck is perhaps the major impediment to solving the word sense disambiguation (WSD) problem. Unsupervised learning methods rely on knowledge about word senses, which is barely formulated in dictionaries and lexical databases. Supervised learning methods depend heavily on the existence of manually annotated examples for every word sense, a requisite that can be met only for a handful of words for testing purposes, as it is done in the Senseval exercises.\n\nTherefore, one of the most promising trends in WSD research is using the largest corpus ever accessible, the World Wide Web, to acquire lexical information automatically. WSD has been traditionally understood as an intermediate language engineering technology which could improve applications such as information retrieval (IR). In this case, however, the reverse is also true: Web search engines implement simple and robust IR techniques that can be successfully used when mining the Web for information to be employed in WSD.\n\nThe most direct way of using the Web (and other corpora) to enhance WSD performance is the automatic acquisition of sense-tagged corpora, the fundamental resource to feed supervised WSD algorithms. Although this is far from being commonplace in the WSD literature, a number of different and effective strategies to achieve this goal have already been proposed. Some of these strategies are:\n\nThe automatic extraction of examples to train supervised learning algorithms reviewed has been, by far, the best explored approach \nto mine the web for word sense disambiguation. Some results are certainly encouraging: \n\nThere are, however, several open research issues related to the use of Web examples in WSD: \n\nBesides automatic acquisition of examples from the Web, there are some other WSD experiments that have profited from the Web: \n\nIt is clear, however, that most research opportunities remain largely unexplored. For instance, little is known about how to use lexical information extracted from the Web in knowledge-based WSD systems; and it is also hard to find systems that use Web-mined parallel corpora for WSD, even though there are already efficient algorithms that use parallel corpora in WSD.\n"}
{"id": "19826429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19826429", "title": "Bash Back!", "text": "Bash Back!\n\nBash Back! was a network of radical, anarchist queer projects within the United States. Formed in Chicago in 2007 to facilitate a convergence of radical trans and gay activists from around the country, Bash Back! sought to critique the ideology of the mainstream LGBT movement, which the group saw as assimilation into the dominant institutions of a heteronormative society. Bash Back! was noticeably influenced by the anarchist movement and radical queer groups, such as ACT UP and Gay Shame, and took inspiration from the Stonewall and San Francisco's White Night riots.\n\nSince 2007, other chapters had formed and had carried out various direct actions across the US. In July 2011, after a ruling involving the 2008 incident at Mount Hope Church in Lansing, Michigan, Andy Field, former Bash Back president for the Lansing chapter stated, \"There is no Bash Back! anymore,\" due to \"internal politics.\"\n\nAccording to their website, anyone could form a Bash Back! chapter as long as they adhered to the basic points of unity:\n\nThe first Bash Back! Convergence was held in April 2008. The goal of the convergence was to form ideas for the then-upcoming protests at the DNC and the RNC, and discuss the formation of new Bash Back! chapters in other regions of the country. As a result, groups in Milwaukee, Memphis, Denver, Lansing, and upstate New York sprung up as new chapters.\n\nTogether, members of the newly formed Bash Back! groups took to the streets of Chicago's Boystown neighborhood in protest of assimilationist politics, trans-exclusion in the gay community, and recent police assaults on trans and queer people. The unpermitted march was eventually dispersed when a crowd surrounded the Chicago Police's Addison/Halsted headquarters, reading aloud statistics of trans and queer people killed by police brutality.\n\nIn June 2008, the neo-Nazi organization the National Socialist Movement, released a statement that announced its intention to demonstrate at Milwaukee's annual Pridefest as a statement that the Nazis do not support \"the promotion of homosexuality in [their] community\". In response, Bash Back! Milwaukee planned a confrontation of the hate group. A group of more than twenty confronted members of the NSM, carrying a banner proclaiming \"These Faggots Kill Fascists.\" The action prompted Pridefest organizers to criticize Bash Back!. Members of Bash Back! Milwaukee in turn denounced the organizers as betraying the queer community, stating \"They would rather see well protected neo-nazis than a well-defended queer and trans community. Nobody will protect us if not ourselves.\"\n\nBash Back! Chicago carried out a number of actions during their city's Pride Weekend in 2008. The first was participation in the annual Chicago Dyke March in Chicago's Pilsen neighborhood. Bash Back!'s contingent in the march focused on resistance to gentrification in the Pilsen community, with a large lead banner stating \"Bash Back Against Gentrification!\"\n\nIn addition, members of Bash Back! also took part in Chicago's larger Chicago Pride Parade. Bash Back! Chicago wheeled a cage through the parade containing a member dressed as Chicago's Mayor Richard M. Daley, whom the group believes is responsible for cutting AIDS funding, turning a blind eye to police torture and brutality, and supporting gentrification. Simultaneously, members of Bash Back! also distributed barf bags with slogans written on them such as \"Corporate Pride Makes Me Sick,\" a statement about the commercial and assimilative intentions of mainstream gay culture.\n\nIn 2008, Mid-South Pride, organizers of the Memphis Pride Festival, announced that the 2008 festival would be co-anchored by Nike and called the move an \"expansion opportunity for the GLBT citizens of the city\". Outraged, Bash Back! Memphis wheatpasted fliers along Cooper Street the night before the march condemning Nike's sweatshop practices and mainstream gay culture. The following day, as the Memphis Pride march proceeded under the Cooper-Young railroad trestle, several BB! members dropped a banner reading \"Queer Liberation, not Queer Consumerism\".\n\nAt the 2008 Democratic National Convention, Bash Back! Denver organized a protest of a fundraiser for the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights lobby group. Bash Back! Denver criticized the HRC for its policies of trans exclusion in the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, as well as the HRC's support for corporate interests and the Iraq War. The action ended in the detention of four activists at the scene and the arrest of one.\n\nBash Back! also organized a \"trans and queer bloc\" as part of the larger black bloc of the Anti-Capitalista Day of Action. The event ended in the detention of most participants, and several bystanders.\n\nThe following day, Bash Back! continued to counter-protest, especially against conservatives holding signs reading things like \"homo-sex is a sin\" by having a queer kiss-in.\n\nAt the 2008 Republican National Convention, members of various Bash Back! groups from around the country participated in a road blockade as a part of Unconventional Action's direct action strategy to disrupt the convention. BB seized an intersection in downtown St. Paul and blocked cars and delegate buses from passing by having a festive dance party. The blockade was eventually met with force by mounted police and the activists were forced to disperse. Soon afterwards, members of Bash Back! also confronted the Westboro Baptist Church when they appeared at the intersection where Bash Back! conducted its action.\n\nOn October 4, 2008, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) held its annual dinner in Washington DC. Bash Back! DC confronted the organization once again for publicly not supporting a trans-inclusive Employment Non-Discrimination Act in the House of Representatives in 2007. About 20 protestors gathered for a dance party at the front doors of the fundraiser with signs such as “HRC Is Not For Me” and “Stonewall Was a Riot”. Dandee Lyon, a member of Bash Back! DC, stated that the reason for the protest was that \"assimilation will not save us, it will only end in the decimation of our community. Society must change to accommodate us, queers and transfolk must refuse assimilation and cultural erasure at the hands of the homonormative gay elite and build a world where we can liberate ourselves.\"\n\nOn November 9, 2008, a contingent from Bash Back!'s Lansing chapter picketed outside Mount Hope Church, because the church promoted traditional biblical strictures concerning homosexuality. Meanwhile, several Bash Back! members entered the building disguised in plain-clothes and disrupted a worship service. During the late morning service the group dropped a rainbow banner bearing the slogan \"It's Okay to Be Gay! Bash Back!\" from the sanctuary balcony and showered a thousand fliers exhorting teenagers in the congregation to \"embrace and explore\" their feelings, and assuring them there are many organizations supportive of gays that \"enable you to be who you truly are.\" The group set off a fire alarm when exiting the building.\n\nAccording to \"Bash Back! News\", Mount Hope Church was targeted for its fundamentalist belief that homosexuality is a sin, for its production of \"hell houses\" that demonize gays, and for its hosting of conferences of \"ex-gays.\"\n\nIn May 2009, Alliance Defense Fund filed a federal lawsuit against Bash Back! on behalf of the church, under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. Those sued refused to name others who participated in the protest, so Mount Hope Church issued a subpoena to Riseup Networks in an attempt to obtain the names of email account holders who the church believed either participated in the action or knew who did. As part of a settlement, the activists agreed to a permanent injunction preventing them from disrupting any religious services in the US. They also agreed to pay the church $2,750 in damages. The district court entered a default judgment against Bash Back! and Bash Back! Lansing, and closed the case.\n\nIn November 2008, to coincide with transgender day of remembrance, Bash Back! groups began staging actions in memory of Duanna Johnson, a trans woman who was brutally beaten by Memphis police officers and murdered while in the process of suing the police department. Many within the Memphis queer community are convinced that the police had a hand in her murder. Bash Back! Philly shut down downtown Philadelphia in a reclaim-the-streets style action, Bash Back! Milwaukee dropped a banner on the UW-M campus reading \"R.I.P. Duanna\", and Bash Back! Memphis had a hearse and casket delivered to the house of Bridges McRae, one of Duanna's assailants.\n\nAn affiliate group of Bash Back! claimed credit for pouring glue into the locks of an LDS church building and spray painting on its walls. An internet posting signed by Bash Back!’s Olympia, Washington chapter said: “The Mormon church ... needs to be confronted, attacked, subverted and destroyed.” According to the \"Chicago Tribune\", the acts of vandalism against the LDS Church appear to be in retaliation for support of Proposition 8. The Anti-Defamation League released a statement condemning the \"defacement and destruction of property.\"\n\nOn October 11, 2009 the Human Rights Campaign headquarters in Washington, DC was vandalized by radical queer activists who threw pink and black paint and glitter at the building and left graffiti reading \"Quit Leaving Queers Behind\". The vandalism came on the eve of the National Equality March, the biggest national queer political mobilization since 2000 and hours after President Barack Obama gave a speech at an HRC fundraiser. A group called Queers Against Assimilation posted a statement about the action on the website of radical queer network Bash Back!. The statement called the attack an act of \"glamdalism.\"\n\nOn September 27 at 2:30PM, a workshop called \"Time to Bash Back\" was held by Rocio Velasquez of \"OPIRG Toronto\", a group at the University of Toronto. It concluded 2.5 hours prior to a 7pm lecture given later that night by Dr. Miles Groth entitled \"Caring About University Men - Why We Need Campus Men’s Centres in a Time of Crisis\".\n\nThe following day (September 28) a group of about 25 people bringing \"Bash Back\" banners attended an 11am \"Men and Boys in Crisis\" rally in Queen's Park, Toronto held to celebrate Groth's lecture. The Bash Back protesters accused the MRAs of being anti-gay, racist and sexist. Roughly twenty police officers attended Queen's Park to keep them separate from the 150 rallying people, as reported by Erin Pizzey, who commented \"this is the first time I can remember men’s rights activists gathering together and protesting\".\n\nThere were documented Bash Back! chapters in each of the following cities and areas:\n"}
{"id": "18458257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18458257", "title": "Bikin River", "text": "Bikin River\n\nBikin () is a river in Primorsky and Khabarovsk Krais in Russia. It is a right tributary of the Ussuri River, and is long, with a drainage basin of .\n\nIts main tributaries are the Alchan, Bachelaza and Zeva rivers.\n\nThe town Bikin is situated on the Bikin River.\n\nIn 2015, a significant portion of the Bikin River basin was incorporated into the creation of Bikin National Park, one of the major protected areas of the Russian Federation.\n"}
{"id": "16937972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16937972", "title": "Booksfree", "text": "Booksfree\n\nBooksfree is an online book rental company, the first to offer flat rate rental-by-mail to customers in the United States. Established in 2000 and headquartered in Vienna, Virginia, it boasts an inventory of over 100,000 titles and more than 13,000 subscribers. On June 8, 2007 the company announced that it had delivered its millionth book.\n\nThe company was founded in 2000 by Douglas Ross, who had previously run a computer systems company, and Andrew Bilinski, who had worked for the US Air Force, EDS & BDM International. Ross originally come up with the idea for Booksfree in 1999, and after selling his company was looking at what to do next. US$1 million of start-up funding was provided by friends & associates. In 2008, Booksfree was recognized by Inc. Magazine as one of America’s top 5,000 fastest growing privately held companies. In February 2009 they shipped their 2 millionth book. In May 2010, the company launched a complementary online book and audiobook swap service BooksfreeSwap. The free book swap service was developed in response to customer demand for books and audiobooks that were not available through their rental service. An audiobook download and streaming service AudiobooksNow was started by Booksfree in January 2012 to meet the growing demand for digital content. On November 2, 2016 Booksfree rebranded itself as BookLender. The company felt the name BookLender better represents what the company does.\n\nThe company has been described as \"the books version of Netflix\", and therefore has a similar business model to online DVD rental companies. Titles are offered in paperback, CD & MP3 CD audiobook formats. Separate monthly membership plans are offered for each medium starting at $9.99 for books, $12.99 for MP3-CD audiobooks & $22.49 for CD & MP3 CD audiobooks. A combination membership encompassing all media is also available. Each plan limits the number of items that can be checked out at any one time. Subscribers can pay a higher monthly fee in order to increase that limit. It is also possible to rent individual titles without having a membership.\n\nSubscriptions to the site have grown from 4,000 in 2002 and 5,000 in 2003 to over 13,000 in 2007. The vast majority of Bookfree's subscribers are women, and the company has received coverage in many magazines aimed primarily at a female readership such as Woman's Day, First for Woman, and O, The Oprah Magazine.\n\nThe company's founders were quoted in 2002 as considering their main competition to be libraries and online book retailers, noting that each has drawbacks compared with Booksfree. Comparisons between the services generally focus upon the availability of audiobooks from Booksfree and their decision to not carry hardcover books.\n"}
{"id": "23792161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23792161", "title": "Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear", "text": "Br'er Fox and Br'er Bear\n\nBr'er Fox and Br'er Bear (also spelled Brer Fox and Brer Bear, ) are fictional characters from the Uncle Remus folktales adapted and compiled by Joel Chandler Harris.\n\nIn the animated sequences of the 1946 Walt Disney-produced film \"Song of the South\" like in the tales, Brer Fox is the stories' antagonist, while Brer Bear is his dim-witted henchman. Brer Fox was voiced by actor James Baskett, who also portrayed the live-action character Uncle Remus, and Brer Bear was voiced by Nick Stewart. In later appearances of the characters, the two were voiced by J.D. Hall and James Avery. In contrast to the earlier illustrations of Frederick S. Church, A. B. Frost, and E. W. Kemble, the Disney animators depict the characters in a more slapstick, cartoony style.\n\nThe cult film \"Coonskin\", directed by Ralph Bakshi, focuses on a trio of characters inspired by the original folktales. Br'er Rabbit, Br'er Bear and Br'er Fox (renamed \"Preacher Fox\" in the film) all appear, and the elements of the stories are moved to a then-contemporary urban setting.\n\nThe Disney versions of the characters have made appearances in other works:\n\n"}
{"id": "48908106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48908106", "title": "Canarian Americans", "text": "Canarian Americans\n\nCanarian Americans are Americans whose ancestors came from the Canary Islands, Spain. They can trace their ancestry to settlers and immigrants who have emigrated since the 16th century to the present-day United States. Most of them are descendants of settlers who emigrated to Spanish colonies in the South of the modern US during the 18th century. The Canarians were among the first settlers of the modern United States; the first Canarians migrated to modern Florida in 1569, and were followed by others coming to \"La Florida\", Texas and Louisiana.\n\nCanarian Americans today consist of several communities, formed by thousands of people. Those in San Antonio and in Louisiana are mostly of Canarian settler descent. Their ancestors arrived in what is now the United States in the 18th century, while the Canarian community in Miami is made up of recent emigrants and their children. These communities are culturally distinct within the American population, having preserved much of the culture of their ancestors to present times.\n\nMost Canarian Americans now speak only English, although some Canarian communities that speak different dialects of the Spanish language are still extant in Louisiana. These include the \"Isleños\" of Saint Bernard Parish who have managed to preserve their culture as well as their dialect of Canarian Spanish, although none of the younger generation speak more than a few words; the \"Brulis\", who live in scattered households in southern Louisiana and speak a dialect with French loan words; and the \"Adaeseños\" in the Natchatoches and Sabine parishes who speak a very similar dialect with loan words from the Nahuatl language of Mexico. The success of Canarian Americans of settler origin in preserving their culture has led some historians and anthropologists, such as Jose Manuel Balbuena Castellano, to consider the Isleño American community a national heritage of both the United States and the Canary Islands.\n\nCanarian emigration to North America started in the 16th century, when Spain had several colonies stretching around the Gulf of Mexico. The first Canarians arrived in the region as early as 1539, when the Spanish explorer Hernando de Soto recruited Canary Islanders to join his expeditions to explore the wilderness of La Florida. The Canarian scholar Javier González Antón says some Canary Islanders went to Florida with Pedro Menéndez, who founded St. Augustine, the first permanent European settlement in what is now the United States, in 1565.\n\nThe other Spanish colonies in the large area (from present-day Virginia to Texas) then called La Florida remained lightly populated due to the scant attention paid them by the Spanish government after it realized that these colonies lacked gold and silver mines and other sources of wealth. During the late 17th and much of the 18th century (1684–1764), the so-called \"Tributo de Sangre\" (Blood Tribute) was in effect; this was a Spanish law stipulating that for every thousand tons of cargo shipped from Spanish America to Spain, 50 Canarian families would be sent to America to populate regions having low populations of \"Peninsulares\", or Spanish-born Spaniards. The Spanish crown sent several groups of Canarian settlers to its North American colonies, but the number of Canarian families emigrating to America usually exceeded the number of families called for by the regulations.\n\nBetween 1731 and 1783, many Canarian families emigrated to the southern colonies, establishing their own communities there. In 1731, 16 Canarian families were sent to San Antonio, Texas, most of them coming directly from the Canary Islands (some came from Havana). After arriving at Veracruz, they were forced to cross overland on foot to Texas, led by the Canarian Juan Leal Goraz, who eventually would become the first mayor of San Antonio. This community had confrontations with the resident Catholic monks of the area over property rights and the diversion of water from the rivers.\n\nBetween 1718 and 1734, Florida was governed by Lt. General Antonio de Benavides, a native of Tenerife in the Canary Islands, while Carlos Benites Franquis de Lugo and Simón de Herrera, both natives of Tenerife, governed Texas in 1736–1737 and in 1811 respectively.\nIn 1740, \"La Real Compañía de Comercio de La Habana\" (The Royal Society of Commerce of Havana), a monopolistic corporation formed to encourage commercial traffic between Cuba and Florida, was required by Spanish statutes to provide two vessels bringing 50 Canarian families annually to Florida. Between 1757 and 1759, 121 Canarian families were sent to Florida, (although most of the settlers emigrated to Cuba when the province was ceded to Great Britain after the Seven Years' War), followed by another 863 Canarian families in the years after the loss of the province, according to authors Carlos Canales Torres and Fernando Martinez Láinez. Florida was returned to Spain in 1783. When Florida was ceded to the United States in 1819, however, most of the new settlers also emigrated to Cuba, as happened in 1763, when Florida was ceded to Great Britain.\n\nAfter the elimination of the \"Tributo de Sangre\" law, between 1778 and 1783 over 4,000 Canarians were sent to Louisiana, although half of them remained in Venezuela and Cuba where their ships had stopped over during the passage; some 2,100 Canarians settled in those places. In Louisiana, the settlers eventually consolidated into three communities: St. Bernard Parish, Valenzuela (where the Canarians intermarried with Cajuns and their descendants speak French), and Barataria (abandoned shortly after a hurricane struck, its settlers relocated elsewhere in Louisiana and Florida). In 1779, other Canarians were established in Galveston, Texas along with Mexican soldiers in the garrison, but after prolonged droughts interrupted by sudden floods, were resettled near Baton Rouge in 1800, where they founded Galveztown.\n\nOther places in the southern United States had Canarian settlers during the Spanish period. A few communities were founded by Canary Island colonists in Southern California and there are records of Canary Islanders colonists and their descendants living in New Mexico in the 19th century.\n\nSince they arrived in America in the 16th century, Isleños have played their part in some historic events: they participated in the American Revolutionary War (in 1782 – 83), fought in the War of 1812 (in 1814), defended the Alamo (in 1836), and after the incorporation of Louisiana and Texas into the United States, they fought in the American Civil War (1861–1865), both World Wars and the Vietnam War. Remarkably, in the 1950s, local government forced all students of the Saint Bernard Parish school system in Louisiana to speak only English, while Hispanics in the parish were not even allowed to speak Spanish in public; eventually there were no Spanish language-speakers left in the local Isleño community.\n\nBeginning early in the 20th century, a different sort of Canarian emigration to America has taken place, primarily to Florida, of migrants not officially sanctioned or subsidized, but coming by their own means. Many Canarians live in the United States temporarily as migrant workers.\n\nSeveral Canarian American communities remain in the southern United States: there are \"Isleño\" communities in Saint Bernard Parish, \"Brulis\" in scattered households in southern Louisiana, and the \"Adaeseños\" in the Natchatoches and Sabine parishes, as well as a Canarian community in San Antonio, Texas. The city of Miami, Florida has a Canarian community of recent immigrants. There are also Canarians living in Boston, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Washington D.C., and California. Currently, according to data of the Padrón de Españoles Residentes en el Extranjero (PERE; Register of Spaniards Resident Abroad), released on March 20, 2014 by the National Statistics Institute (INE), in 2013, there were 5,127 Canarians living in the United States.\n\nCanarian culture in San Antonio and Louisiana has been preserved up to the present day, although not in Florida.\n\nThe majority of them descended from Canarian settlers who arrived in Louisiana between 1778 and 1783. According to Samuel G. Armistead, there are four small areas of the state where the Spanish language has been spoken since the 18th century, now in three different dialects. The main Isleño community in Louisiana is in St. Bernard Parish. Although most of its members, especially the younger people, speak only English, some of the older Isleños still speak a rustic and antiquated Canarian Spanish and maintain traditions like roasting pig and hunting small birds. The other communities of Canarian descent include the \"Brulis\", who live in scattered households in southern Louisiana; they speak a Spanish dialect with French infusions, while the \"Adaeseños\" in Natchitoches and Sabine parishes speak a very similar dialect, with loan words from the Nahuatl language of Mexico. Recorded interviews have been conducted in these communities with the elderly residents, who still speak their dialect of the Spanish language on video and DVD. They are kept in the \"Museo Canario\" (Canarian Museum) in Saint Bernard to prevent the language and culture from being lost.\n\nOn February 14, 1719, the governor of Texas, José de Azlor, made a proposal to King Philip V of Spain that 400 families be transported from the Canary Islands, Galicia, and Havana to populate the province of Texas. His plan was approved, and notice was given the Canary Islanders (\"Isleños\") to provide 200 families for the venture; the Council of the Indies suggested that 400 families should be sent from the Canaries to Texas by way of Havana and Veracruz.\n\nBefore the arrival of the Canarian settlers in 1730, the San Pedro channel was built for the exclusive use of the Canary Island colonists. It was called the \"acequia madre\", the \"mother ditch\" that crossed the city. Its waters irrigated agricultural fields around San Antonio from that time until 1906. The last channel to supply water to the citizens was dug in 1777 for the new settlers of Los Adaes, and its remains can still be seen. American historical research indicates that Canarian irrigation practices in the San Antonio colonial period can only be understood in the context of traditional irrigation practices developed over thousands of years by the settlers' ancestors in the Canary Islands.\n\nBy June 1730, twenty-five families had reached Cuba and ten families had been sent on to Veracruz before orders from Spain arrived to stop the movement. Most of these Canarians were from Lanzarote, Tenerife and Gran Canaria. Under the leadership of Juan Leal Goraz, the group marched overland to the Presidio San Antonio de Bexar.\n\nThe party had increased by marriages on the way to fifteen families, a total of fifty-six persons. They joined a military community that had been in existence since 1718. At eleven o'clock in the morning on March 9, 1731, sixteen Spanish families (56 people), often referred to as the \"Canary Islanders,\" or \"Isleños\", arrived at the Presidio of San Antonio de Bexar in the Province of Texas. These settlers formed the nucleus of the village of San Fernando de Béxar, and established the first regularly organized civil government in Texas.\nJuan de Acuña, Viceroy of New Spain, bestowed titles of nobility on each Canary Island family. After arriving in San Antonio, the Isleños had problems with the Texas government and the local bourgeoisie. The Franciscan friars were opposed to their founding a town so near their area of influence. The Canarians competed with them in raising crops and livestock, and their success threatened the order's own production, which had increased dramatically with the labor of Native American converts to Catholicism. The missionaries demanded that the settlers be distributed evenly among all the missions in the territory. Juan Leal, mayor of the city, refused the friars' request and decided in favor of the Canarians.\n\nThe Isleños had no access to water from the San Antonio River for irrigating the land they farmed, as it was reserved for use by the missions. The stream of San Pedro had been used by the Canarians of San Antonio since their arrival, but in 1732 the Cabildo wrote to the Viceroy stating that the volume of water was not enough to irrigate their fields and their crops were dying. In response, the Viceroy suggested in his order that the waters of San Antonio be divided proportionately between the missions and the settlers. An official inspection found that the water flow was plentiful enough to supply the missions and the villa. The tension between the missions and the settlers continued for some time, and later focused on land grant issues as well as irrigation.\n\nFourteen years after the founding of San Antonio, the non-Isleño settlers complained that the stranglehold the Canarians had on local politics was tightening to the point of depriving them of water for their homes. In 1736, the first canal was dug to distribute the waters of the San Antonio River for irrigation. Antonio Rodríguez Medero and Governor Carlos Benites Franquis de Lugo had a part in passing legislation enabling development of an irrigation system for the settlers. The Isleños irrigated their farms using the age-old techniques of their homeland.\n\nTheir irrigation problems were resolved for a while with the construction of the Acequia de San Pedro, completed in 1741, but as their water supplies decreased, Alvarez Travieso, in his position as Alguacil Mayor, was compelled to initiate several lawsuits from 1756 to 1771, until the Isleños were allowed full access to land ownership and water rights. The Canarians had to compete not only with the missions, but also new Spanish and Mexican settlers arriving in San Antonio in the second half of the 18th century, who felt marginalized because appointments to positions in the Cabildo, which had been created by the Canarians, were monopolized by them.\nSan Antonio grew to become the largest Spanish settlement in Texas, and for most of its history it was the capital of the Spanish and later the Mexican province of Tejas. From San Antonio, the \"Camino Real\" (today Nacogdoches Road) in San Antonio ran to the Mexico–United States border near the small frontier town of Nacogdoches. In the Battle of the Alamo fought from February 23 to March 6, 1836, the outnumbered Texan forces were ultimately defeated, and all of the Alamo's defenders were killed. There were Canary Islanders and Canarian descendants among these men, who were seen as martyrs for the cause of Texas freedom. \"Remember the Alamo\" became a rallying cry for the Texans' struggles to defeat Santa Anna's army.\n\nThere were a few descendants of Canary Islanders in San Antonio who joined the Mexican army to oppose Texas' independence from Mexico, such as the soldier and landowner Juan Moya. Other Isleños supported the annexation of Texas to the United States, and the territory decided to join the union in 1845. The last persons in the San Antonio Isleño community to speak Spanish as their daily language died in the 1950s, though the culture is being kept alive (San Antonio Isleños who speak Spanish are now all descendants of intermarriages between Isleños and Mexican settlers who arrived during the Mexican Revolution).\n\nSome 5,000 Isleños (the majority of them descendants of the original Canarian settlers) live in San Antonio, Texas. Several of the old families of San Antonio trace their descent from the Canary Island colonists. María Rosa Padrón was the first Canary Islander baby born in San Antonio. Currently, there are several Isleño associations in San Antonio, including the Canary Islands Descendants Association and the \"Fundación Norteamericana Amigos de las Islas Canarias\" (American Foundation of Friends of the Canary Islands), presided over by the Canarian cardiovascular medical specialist Alfonso Chiscano, whose aim is to strengthen the historical ties between Canarians and San Antonio.\n\nThe \"Oficina Comercial Canaria\" (Canarian Commercial Office) of San Antonio is maintained by PROEXCA, a public company attached to the Canarian Ministry of Economy, Industry, Trade and Knowledge, that works to promote commercial cooperation between Canarian Spanish businessmen and the state of Texas. The \"Oficina de Canarias\" in San Antonio is an initiative of Canarian universities, university foundations and the previously mentioned Friends of the Canary Islands.\n\nIn 1539, Hernando de Soto, funded in part by the Count of La Gomera, recruited sailors in the Canary Islands to man expeditions for the exploration of Spanish Florida. In 1565, the newly appointed Adelantado of Florida, Pedro Menendez de Aviles, organized two separate \"armadas\", totaling more than twenty ships, which sailed from Asturias and Cádiz to the Canary Islands before continuing on to attack the French at Fort Caroline. According to Venezuelan writer Manuel María Marrero, in 1569 a group of 70 Canarian farmer families embarked from the port of Santa Cruz de Tenerife in the boats \"Nuestra Señora de la Soledad\" and \"Santiago\" with this destination. Nevertheless, colonial Florida remained sparsely populated, with most of the population living at the port of Saint Augustine, which was protected by a military fortress.\n\nLieutenant General Antonio de Benavides, a native of Tenerife, was appointed governor of La Florida in 1718 and governed there until 1734. On several occasions he repelled the English who were trying to conquer Florida by land and sea, and suppressed pirate raids. He also managed to secure a peace treaty with the neighboring Native American tribal groups who had been inimical to the Spanish colony, and maintained friendly relations with them as long as he was governing the colony. Benavides defended the rights of the indigenous peoples, allowing no distinction between classes or persons, and consequently was respected by Native Americans and Spaniards in the \"presidio\" alike. Benavides was one of three Canarian governors of a province now in the United States (the others were Carlos Benites Franquis de Lugo and Simón de Herrera, both in Texas).\n\nIn 1740, due to the depopulation of much of Florida, \"La Real Compañía de Comercio de La Habana\" (The Royal Society of Commerce of Havana), a monopolistic corporation that tried to encourage commercial traffic between Cuba and Florida, was required by Spanish statutes to annually provide two vessels bringing 50 Canarian families to Florida to counter aggressive moves southward by English colonists to the north. For a decade Canarian families were sent to Florida at a rate of about fifty families per year. These were peasant families to which were provided seeds for one or two crops, animals, land and franchises for the export of agricultural products to ports north and south in Spanish America. Thus emigration was encouraged to the reportedly fertile lands.\n\nBetween 1757 and 1759, 121 families were sent to Florida (42 in 1757, 43 families several months after, and another 36 the following year). In 1763, after its defeat by Great Britain in the Seven Years' War, Spain was forced to cede Florida, causing most of its Spanish inhabitants to emigrate to Cuba, although a small Canarian community would be permanently established in the region, where they were considered innovators in agriculture.\n\nAccording to the Spanish journalists Fernando Martínez Laínez and Carlos Canales Torrres (who examined the Spanish history of the United States in his book \"Banderas lejanas: La exploración, conquista y defensa por España del territorio de los actuales Estados Unidos\"), after the cession of Florida to Great Britain, many more Canarian families emigrated to Florida. In the 47 years of Canarian emigration to Florida, of the 2,350 who wanted the Spanish Crown retained there, only 984 families migrated, most of them heading to Venezuela and the Spanish Antilles. In 1783, Spain recovered Florida and some of the Canarian settlers from Saint Bernard also emigrated to West Florida.\n\nDuring those years, Vicente Sebastián Pintado, the Canarian cartographer, engineer, soldier and Surveyor General of West Florida, who drew the \"Pintado plan\", a street map of Pensacola drawn in 1812, which included the position and size of the \"solares\" on which to build the church and other public buildings. He left a huge corpus of work consisting of maps and plans of streets, letters and documents vital to the complicated sale of land in Florida and Louisiana. In 1974 the Library of Congress in Washington, DC obtained the donation of the Pintado Collection work, a collection of about 1,500 documents stored in the Division of Manuscripts.\n\nFlorida was ceded to the United States in 1819, again causing the emigration of almost the entire Spanish population to Cuba, although once again, a few Spaniards remained in Florida. There is a recent immigrant community of Canarian people and their descendants living in Miami, within the greater Hispanic community. Many of these Canarians live there only temporarily for employment. The vice president of the council of Tenerife, José Manuel Bermúdez, estimated that more than 200,000 people from the Canary Islands live in Florida. Currently, Florida has a Canarian association, the \"Hogar canario de Florida\" (Canarian Home of Florida), located in Coral Way, Miami.\n\nSome communities in Southern California were also founded by Canary Islanders. Numbers of Canary Island colonists and their descendants were recorded in New Mexico during the Spanish era of that state.\n\nThe Isleño communities in Louisiana have kept alive their Spanish musical folklore and Canarian \"romance\" ballads, décima, and lyric songs of their ancestors. They also preserve in their oral traditions a wide variety of songs, nursery rhymes, riddles, proverbs, and folk tales, and still use common Isleño names for numerous animals, including birds, fish, and reptiles, as well as insects and trees. Some Isleños still practice traditional Canarian folk medicine, prayer healing, and witchcraft rituals.\n\nThe Canarian dialect is gradually disappearing in Texas and Louisiana. By 1984, researchers of Isleño communities in the southern United States had recorded 82 hours of native speakers sharing information about them: (57 hours by Isleños, 10 hours by Brulis, 10 hours by speakers in Texas and 5 hours by Adaeseños from Los Adaes). In the case of the Brulis, Adaeseños and speakers in Texas, the material is mostly linguistic. On the other hand, interviews with the Isleños bear witness to a rich diversity of language samples, folk and popular literature. These communities have a wide variety of songs, nursery rhymes, riddles, proverbs, folk tales, folk medicine, prayer healing, witchcraft traditions and many Isleño names for birds, fish, reptiles, insects and trees. San Antonio Isleños now speak a Mexican dialect of Spanish as they are mostly the descendants of intermarriages between Isleños and Mexican settlers who arrived during the Mexican Revolution.\n\n\"The Spanish Tradition in Louisiana\", a scholarly book written by Samuel G. Armistead, with musical transcriptions and information gathered from this recorded material, was published to ensure their preservation over time. This Isleño material relates not only to the Canary Islands, but also to several other regions of Spain, as immigrants from these places have been coming to Louisiana since the 19th century and mixing with the Isleño communities.\n\nIsleños travel to the Canary Islands every year to remember their roots and keep in touch with the land of their ancestors. In 1980, the Saint Bernard Isleño community built the Isleños Museum to preserve the local Canarian culture. It was badly damaged by Hurricane Katrina and demolished, but has since been completely restored and reopened .\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTV Interview with CISLANDERUS creators: June 13, 2016, Canarian Television (from min 6.45) Buenos días Canarias, la mañana\n"}
{"id": "1449511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449511", "title": "Concurrent majority", "text": "Concurrent majority\n\nA concurrent majority, in US history, was a constitutional rule proposed to enable minorities to block the actions of majorities. In the United States, its most vocal proponents have tended to be minority groups, such as farmers in an urban-majority society or slaveowning Southerners protesting national policies that encroached on their privileges and interests. The concurrent majority was intended to prevent the tyranny of the majority that proponents feared might arise in an unlimited democracy.\n\nPrior to the American Revolution, most governments were controlled by small minorities of ruling élites. Most of the population was completely disfranchised, even in countries like Switzerland whose governments (local, regional, and federal) were democratic by contemporary standards. The conception of government that materialized during the separation of the United States from Great Britain marked a movement away from such control towards wider suffrage. The problem of tyranny then became a problem of limiting the majority's power.\n\nEven so, the widening of the franchise caused concern. The framers of the US Constitution, even while they reiterated that the people held national sovereignty, worked to ensure that a simple majority of voters could not infringe upon the liberty of the rest of the people. One protection was separation of powers, such as bicameralism in the US Congress and the three branches of the national government: legislative, executive, and judicial.\n\nHaving two houses was intended to serve as a brake on popular movements that might threaten particular groups, with the US House of Representatives representing the common people and the US Senate defending the interests of the state governments. The House was to be elected by popular vote, and the Senate was to be chosen by state legislatures. The executive veto and the implied power of judicial review, which was later made explicit by the US Supreme Court, created further obstacles to absolute majority rule.\n\nFurthermore, the Three-Fifths Compromise, more familiarly known at the time as the \"federal ratio,\" allowed slaves to count as three fifths of free men for the purposes of representation and taxation. The compromise secured Southern votes for ratification of the Constitution and ensured disproportionate influence to Southerners for the first 50 years of the Constitution's history.\n\nDuring the first half of the 19th century, John C. Calhoun of South Carolina revived and expounded upon the concurrent majority doctrine. An ardent advocate of states' rights, he served as vice president and senator.\n\nHe noted that the North, with its industrial economy, had become far more populous than the South. As the South's dependence on slavery sharply differentiated its agricultural economy from the North's, the difference in power afforded by population threatened interests that Calhoun considered essential to the South.\n\nHowever, national policy became more and more driven on expansion and developing internal markets and infrastructure. With such changes, the South perceived more and more risks to its position and Calhoun became the most strident spokesman for sectionalism of his region.\n\nHis theory of the \"concurrent majority,\" elaborated in his posthumous work of political theory \"A Disquisition on Government\" (1851), argued a method for protecting voting minorities from the tyranny of the majority, but his position on nullification argued the importance of protecting his region from high tariffs, essential for its export-focused economy. In life, Calhoun had been a leading proponent of the concept of nullification, as he most forcefully articulated in the 1828 \"South Carolina Exposition and Protest\", which was published anonymously while he was vice president, in response to the protectionist Tariff of 1828, also called the \"Tariff of Abominations.\"\n\nNullification, an outgrowth of Jeffersonian compact theory, held that any state, as part of its rights as sovereign parties to the Constitution, had the power to declare specific federal laws void within its borders if it considered the law to be unconstitutional. Therefore, under Calhoun's schema, a law required two forms of majorities: a majority of the federal legislature and a concurrent majority of the legislatures of each state. It was on that authority in 1832 that South Carolina passed the Ordinance of Nullification on the Tariff of 1828 and its successor, the Tariff of 1832, thus beginning the Nullification Crisis. Andrew Jackson responded with the Force Bill, but armed conflict was avoided after the Tariff of 1833 was passed, the compromise being largely the work of Calhoun.\n\n"}
{"id": "13921342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13921342", "title": "Confronted animals", "text": "Confronted animals\n\nConfronted animals, or confronted-animal as an adjective, where two animals face each other in a symmetrical pose, is an ancient bilateral motif in art and artifacts studied in archaeology and art history. The \"anti-confronted animals\" is the opposing motif, with the animals back to back.\n\nBilateral symmetry is a dominant aspect of our world and strong representation of it with matching figures often creates a balance that is appealing in artwork.\n\nIn ancient art, confronted-animal motifs often involve the Master of Animals, a central human figure between two confronted animals, often grasping them, and are probably part of a unified socio-cultural motif. A related motif in ancient art is known as the Mistress of Animals.\n\nIt is thought that the iconography sometimes has ritual and religious associations; for example, the Lion Gate of Mycenae has a column between the protective, surmounted and confronted lionesses standing with two feet on the ground and two on the same base on which the column rests. The column is thought to represent a goddess, abstracted to avoid tabooed direct representation. Alternatively, the column has also been interpreted as symbolizing the entrance to the palace. The lions are thus guarding the entrance to the palace and the walled fortification simultaneously. The motif called the Tree of Life, where two confronted animals graze on a shrub or tree, is also very ancient.\n\nThe reverse side of the Gebel el-Arak Knife handle, displayed at the top of the article, shows two powerful confronted lions, separated by a figure who is grasping them. Of note, the knob on the reverse shows the top end of the hole for a cord or rope, on the suspension lug; this knife may have been worn around the neck ceremonially.\n\nExamples of confronted animals exist on Cylinder seals from Mesopotamia. Deities, or heroes grasping lionesses, cattle, griffins, or other, imaginary creatures are sometimes found.\n\nMany cylinder seals involving confronted goats surrounding a central Tree of life on a 'cone' or 'mountain' platform share one common theme. Others may be thought of as deities holding the animals under their control.\n\nBecause cylinder seals are numerous and also come from pre-historical periods, back to the fourth or 5th millennium BC, themes are varied. Another Tree of life type of confronted animals cylinder seal has a \"hero grasping water buffalo\" and a \"bull-man grasping lions\", each between the animals; again, the central figure is the \"Tree-of-Life\" that often is interpreted as representing a goddess.\n\nConfronted snakes are frequent images in many cultures from ancient times to historical periods. Often associated with religious ceremonies and deities, perhaps the most familiar figure known popularly from ancient times is the deity or priestess of Crete depicted holding up two confronted snakes on either side of her.\n\nA chlorite vessel from the area of contemporary Baghdad, Iraq is displayed at this link. It depicts three pairs of confronted animals. Two confronted snakes are being held in the hands of the central figure; below the snake-pair are a pair of \"anti-confronted-lionesses\" (although they turn their heads to face each other their hind quarters are closely confronted), recumbent. The third similar pair of animals on this item are two anti-confronted bovines with a human or deity between also. Two tumbling lions and other animals are depicted to the right.\n\nThe Narmer Palette, used to mix cosmetics in the receptacle on one side, has two confronted felines, sometimes called serpopards (because of their exaggerated long necks which look snakelike to some researchers) forming the receptacle. Close examination of the animals with the exaggerated, long necks supports identification as lionesses. The entire theme of the Narmer Palette, is about the pharaoh of the newly unified Ancient Egypt represented in two scenes, (palette \"obverse\", palette \"reverse\"). On one side the pharaoh wears the crown of Upper Egypt and on the other, the pharaoh wears the crown of Lower Egypt. Thus, it is thought that the lionesses with their intertwining necks are representing two kingdoms, once separate, but now unified under one pharaoh. The lioness Bast had been the protective deity of one kingdom and the lioness Sekhmet of the other kingdom, equally important deities in each of the early Egyptian pantheons. Respectively, they were the special protectors of the pharaoh in each kingdom, who persisted as deities throughout the long history of unified Ancient Egypt. Eventually their roles diverged, however, with one becoming less of the protector and warrior deity and assigned other roles. Typically, many similar deities in the two kingdoms soon were merged, so the retention of both is thought to be the result of the long and strong tradition of each.\n\nExamples of other confronted animals exist on many cosmetic palettes of Ancient Egypt that have been discovered. One palette has confronted-hippopotamuses; others include giraffes, geese, and other animals familiar to the Egyptians. Bilaterally depicted palm trees also are known as well on palettes.\n\nThe gate to the citadel of Mycenae is shown to the right. It crowned the major entrance gateway to the ancient citadel that was the centre of the culture, Mycenaean Greece, that predated that of Greece, and is a well-known example of two confronted lionesses. Debate exists in research of this image, questioning whether these are leopards or lionesses confronted with a column between them that represents the deity, but the characteristic tufts at the end of the tails confirm the species. Many images of lioness related deities are depicted with heavier manes than typical for lionesses, but that may have been the result of attempts to interpretation of the species or, unfamiliarity with the atypical dimorphic differences within this feline species. Alternatively, George Mylonas believed lions were depicted, not lionesses.\n\nIn ancient Greece, heralds functioning as private messengers or public criers were referred to as \"kerykes\". The \"keryx\" has functions in political, military, judicional and religious matters. He was identified by his attribute, the herald's staff or \"kerykeion\", in Latin \"caduceus\". The attribute also offered him protection. Hermes, the messenger of the gods, also carries a \"kerykeion\". Kerykeia were often donated to temples by private persons and on state occasions. They are also found in herald's graves, and identify the profession of the buried person.\n\nConfronted leopards appear in a tomb found in Tarchuna (Tarquinia), or Tarchna Tarchnal, the chief of the twelve cities of Etruria, a district in what is described as the Etruscan civilization that existed in Italy from 1200 BC through the 100 BC. It appears in the earliest history of Rome, which was dominated by it until early in the 330s BC. This mural features confronted leopards providing protection for a banquet in the afterlife. Frequently felines, lionesses and leopards such as these are confronted with a tree, shrub, or column between them in murals from this culture. The Etruscans are thought to have migrated from the area of Troy, through Greece where they absorbed many cultural elements, to Italy where they founded their culture in prehistoric times.\nIn Europe, confronted animals are an important motif in animal style, or zoomorphic decoration, Insular art, and the Romanesque. In these contexts there may be little or nothing between the two animals, and the emphasis is on the pair themselves. Human figures are often treated in the same way, often mixed in with animals in decorative schemes - archers were especially popular in the Romanesque period.\n\nThe early Anglo-Saxon ship burial found in contemporary Great Britain at Sutton Hoo, from the seventh century AD, contains famous examples of Migration Period art. The Sutton Hoo purse-lid has three stylized confronted-animal pairs; the two side pairs, left and right, are identical, and have the animals in the person's clutched grasp. The central confronted animals are even more complex in theme.\n\nOpposed animals are used in Insular art, the style of which is derived from a mixture of Celtic and northern European design traditions. Confronted animals, or animals intertwined in very intricate patterns, often depicted grabbing at each other to form the \"gripping beast\" pattern, are a main feature of some periods of Viking art. So intertwined are the animals, they are dissolved into pure ornament, and the individuals are barely discernable from each other. Confronted animals are also frequently seen in European Romanesque art, for example as decorative patterns in Romanesque architecture.\n\nSupporters in heraldry, not always a matched pair, continue the theme.\n\nConfronted-animal motifs are found extensively in Asian art and in textiles, including rugs, across Eurasia.\n\nFew examples still exist of a special type of Oriental carpet, termed \"animal carpets\" because their main feature are confronted animals. Dated to the 13th–16th century, they represent carpets woven during the transition period between the late Seljuq and the early Ottoman empire. Parallels were shown between the \"opposed animal\" and \"latch-hook\" motifs from woven pile rugs and the Lorestān bronzes. These are Early Iron Age bronze artifacts of various individual forms which have been recovered from Lorestān and Kermanshah areas in west-central Iran.\n\nCarpet fragments discovered in Konya and Beyşehir in Turkey, and Fostat in Egypt were dated to the 13th century, which corresponds to the Anatolian Seljuq Period (1243–1302). Rows of horned quadrupeds placed opposite to each other, or birds beside a tree can be recognized on some of these fragments.\n\nA traditional Chinese motif, the fight between phoenix and dragon, is seen in an Anatolian carpet now displayed at the Pergamon Museum, Berlin, and radiocarbon dated to the mid 15th century. The Chinese motif was probably introduced into Islamic art by the Mongols during the thirteenth century. Another animal carpet showing two medallions with two birds besides a tree was found in the Swedish church of Marby.\n\nSince 1988, seven more carpets of the animal type have been found. They survived in Tibetan monasteries and were removed by monks fleeing to Nepal during the Chinese cultural revolution. One of these carpets was acquired by the Metropolitan Museum of Art which parallels a painting by the Sienese artist Gregorio di Cecco: \"The Marriage of the Virgin\", 1423. It shows large confronted animals, each with a smaller animal inside. An almost complete animal carpet is now at the Museum of Islamic Art, Doha.\n\n\"Animal carpets\" were also depicted in Italian paintings of the 14th and 15th century, and thus represent the earliest Oriental carpets shown in Renaissance paintings.\n\n\"Powhatan's Mantle\" is a cloak of deerskin, which originally belonged to a Native American of high social status. Its decoration consists of shell beadwork, depicting a central standing human figure flanked by two upright, opposed quadrupeds and surrounded by 34 discs. The two animals resemble one another in terms of their overall outline, but their tails and paws differ. The left-hand animal has a long tail and round paws with five articulated digits. The right-hand animal has a shorter tail, and its legs end in cloven hoofs. Historically, this artwork was believed to have belonged Powhatan, who was the paramount chief of Tsenacommacah, an alliance of Algonquian-speaking Virginia Indians in the Tidewater region of Virginia at the time English settlers landed at Jamestown in 1607. \"Powhatan's Mantle\" is one of the earliest North American artifacts to be collected by Europeans that still survives today.\n\n\nCylinder seal: confronted-animals\n\nConfronted snakes\n"}
{"id": "2015787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015787", "title": "Crossroads, Kansas City", "text": "Crossroads, Kansas City\n\nThe Crossroads (officially the Crossroads Arts District) is a historic neighborhood near Downtown Kansas City, Missouri. It is centered at approximately 19th Street and Baltimore Avenue, directly south of the Downtown Loop and north of Crown Center. It is the city's main art gallery district and center for the visual arts. Dozens of galleries are located in its renovated warehouses and industrial buildings. It is also home to numerous restaurants, housewares shops, architects, designers, an advertising agency, and other visual artists. The district also has several live music venues.\n\nNumerous buildings in the neighborhood are listed on the National Register of Historic Places, including the TWA Corporate Headquarters Building, Western Auto Building, and Firestone Building. There are two historic groups of buildings also on the Register—Working Class Hotels at 19th & Main Streets (Midwest Hotel, Monroe Hotel, and Rieger Hotel) and Crossroads Historic Freight District (industrial buildings clustered along the tracks north of Union Station).\n\nThe Crossroads district is also home to one of the county's largest remaining examples of a Film Row district. The Film Row district consists of 17 buildings. Following the demolition of a Film Row building, the Film Row district was placed on Missouri Preservation's 2013 list of \"watched properties.\"\n\n\"The Kansas City Star\" and \"The Pitch\" maintain offices in the neighborhood, along with HOK and Barkley. The Belger Arts Center is also located in the district.\n\nArt galleries generally open new shows on the first Friday of each month from 6 to 9 pm. This has become one of the region's most popular regular events as thousands of people flock to the Crossroads for gallery \"open houses\" amidst the Crossroads's unique atmosphere.\n\nThere are more than 60 galleries in the Crossroads district, making it one of the five largest arts districts in the US.\n\nFirst held in late August 2005, the Crossroads Music Festival is an annual event organized by Spice of Life Productions, which features local music artists. The 2005 event was held at Grinder's Sculpture Park (CrossroadsKC) at 18th Street and Locust Street. In addition to concert performances, offerings include short films by local independent filmmakers and booths offering apparel by local designers, local independent print media, and carnival games.\n\nIn 2007, one of Kansas City's development agencies began a program to allow property tax abatements for art-related business who would otherwise be priced out of the neighborhood by fast-rising property values. Neighborhood leaders lobbied for the program to prevent the \"Soho Effect\" of gentrification. Tax abatements had been granted to developers to attract new residents to the neighborhood with high-end condominiums and lofts next to the galleries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "173966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173966", "title": "David Hartley (philosopher)", "text": "David Hartley (philosopher)\n\nDavid Hartley (; 8 August 170528 August 1757) was an English philosopher and founder of the Associationist school of psychology.\n\nDavid Hartley was born in 1705 in the vicinity of Halifax, Yorkshire. His mother died three months after his birth. His father, an Anglican clergyman, died when David was only fifteen. He was educated at Bradford Grammar School and Jesus College, Cambridge, of which society he became a fellow in 1727. Originally intended for the Church, he was deterred from taking orders by certain scruples as to signing the Thirty-nine Articles, and took up the study of medicine. Nevertheless, he remained a member of the Church of England, and was on intimate terms with the most distinguished churchmen of his day. He considered it his duty to obey ecclesiastical as well as civil authorities. The doctrine to which he most strongly objected was that of eternal punishment.\n\nHartley was married twice. The first time in 1730 to Alice Rowley, who died the next year giving birth to their son David (1731–1813). His second marriage was in 1735 to Elizabeth (1713–78), the daughter of Robert Packer of Shellingford and Bucklebury, both in Berkshire. This marriage was undertaken in spite of the opposition of Elizabeth's influential and very wealthy family. This union produced two additional children, Mary (1736–1803) and Winchcombe Henry (1740–94). Hartley practised as a physician at Newark, Bury St Edmunds, London, and lastly at Bath, where he died in 1757.\n\nHe was a vegetarian. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1736.\n\nHis principal work \"Observations on Man, his Frame, his Duty, and his Expectations\" was published in 1749, three years after Condillac's \"Essai sur l'origine des connaissances humaines\", in which similar theories were expounded. It is in two parts—the first dealing with the frame of the human body and mind, and their mutual connections and influences, the second with the duty and expectations of mankind. His two main theories are the doctrine of vibrations and the doctrine of associations. His physical theory, he tells us, was drawn from certain speculations as to nervous action which Isaac Newton had published in his \"Principia\". His psychological theory was suggested by the \"Dissertation concerning the Fundamental Principles of Virtue or Morality\", which was written by a clergyman named John Gay (1699—1745), and prefixed by Bishop Law to his translation of Archbishop King's Latin work on the \"Origin of Evil\", its chief object being to show that sympathy and conscience are developments by means of association from the selfish feelings.\n\nThis work also contained thoughts on Christian apologetics and theology that were published under the title \"Of the Truth of the Christian Religion\"., which included proofs on the existence of God, a defense of the divine authority of the Bible, remarks on the eternity of God's existence, on the infinity and immateriality of God, on free-will, miracles, and the terms of religious salvation.\n\nThe outlines of Hartley's theory are as follows. Like John Locke, he asserted that, prior to sensation, the human mind is a blank slate. By a growth from simple sensations, those states of consciousness which appear most remote from sensation come into being. And the one law of growth of which Hartley took account was the law of contiguity, synchronous and successive. By this law he sought to explain, not only the phenomena of memory, which others had similarly explained before him, but also the phenomena of emotion, of reasoning, and of voluntary and involuntary action (see Association of Ideas). A friend, associate, and one of his chief advocates, was Joseph Priestley (1733–1804), the discoverer of oxygen. Priestley was one of the foremost scientists of his age.\n\nHartley's physical theory gave birth to the modern study of the intimate connection of physiological and psychical facts. He believed that sensation is the result of a vibration of the minute particles of the medullary substance of the nerves, to account for which he postulated, with Newton, a subtle elastic ether, rare in the interstices of solid bodies and in their close neighbourhood, and denser as it recedes from them. Pleasure is the result of moderate vibrations, pain of vibrations so violent as to break the continuity of the nerves. These vibrations leave behind them in the brain a tendency to fainter vibrations or \"vibratiuncles\" of a similar kind, which correspond to \"ideas of sensation.\" This accounts for memory.\n\nThe course of reminiscence and of the thoughts generally, when not immediately dependent upon external sensation, is accounted for by the idea that there are always vibrations in the brain on account of its heat and the pulsation of its arteries. The nature of these vibrations is determined by each man's past experience, and by the circumstances of the moment, which causes one or another tendency to prevail over the rest. Sensations which are often associated together become each associated with the ideas corresponding to the others; and the ideas corresponding to the associated sensations become associated together, sometimes so intimately that they form what appears to be a new simple idea, not without careful analysis resolvable into its component parts.\n\nStarting from a detailed account of the phenomena of the senses, Hartley tried to show how, by the above laws, all the emotions, which he analyses with considerable skill, may be explained. Locke's phrase \"association of ideas\" is employed throughout, \"idea\" being taken as including every mental state but sensation. He emphatically asserts the existence of pure disinterested sentiment, while declaring it to be a growth from the self-regarding feelings. Voluntary action is explained as the result of a firm connexion between a motion and a sensation or \"idea,\" and, on the physical side, between an \"ideal\" and a motory vibration. Therefore, in the Freewill controversy Hartley took his place as a determinist. It was only with reluctance, and when his speculations were nearly complete, that he came to a conclusion on this subject in accordance with his theory.\n\n\nDavid Hartley also published numerous medical works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2423200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2423200", "title": "Dorchester Pot", "text": "Dorchester Pot\n\nThe Dorchester Pot was a metal vase-like object that was recovered in two pieces after an explosion used to break up rock at Meeting House Hill, in Dorchester, Massachusetts in 1852. According to text reprinted from the \"Boston Transcript\", a local paper, in the June 5, 1852 \"Scientific American\", the two pieces were found, loose among debris thrown out by the explosion. Apparently, it was inferred from the locations of the two pieces of this pot among the explosion debris that this pot had been blasted from solid puddingstone (conglomerate), which is part of the Roxbury Conglomerate, from about 10 feet below the surface of Meeting House Hill. The story has been used by creationists and fringe theorists as evidence that conventional models of geology or the length of the human presence on earth are wrong. Mainstream commentators identify it as a Victorian era candlestick or pipe holder.\n\nThe Roxbury Conglomerate, from which this pot is alleged to have come, has been dated as having accumulated between 570 and 593 million years ago and during the Ediacaran Period. It accumulated at the bottom of a deep rift basin, which was filled with marine water, within submarine fan and slope environments. Metamorphism has significantly altered the Roxbury Conglomerate to sub-greenschist facies and created within it a well-developed and closely spaced slaty cleavage that is oriented approximately perpendicular to bedding. Tectonism has also flattened, stretched, indented, and fractured the pebbles and associated matrix of the Roxbury Conglomerate to the point that it often has the appearance of flow structure.\n\nThe bell-shaped vessel was described as being about 4.5 inches (11.5 cm) high, 6.5 inches (16.5 cm) in diameter at the base and 2.5 inches (6.4 cm) in diameter at the top. The body of this object was said to resemble zinc alloyed with silver in color. Its description said that \"On the sides there are six figures of a flower, or bouquet, beautifully inlaid with pure silver, and around the lower part of the vessel a vine, or wreath, inlaid also with silver. The primary source of information about this object, provides neither any picture of nor age estimate for the Dorchester Pot.\n\nThe Dorchester Pot is often discussed as an out-of-place artifact by various popular books and articles about unsolved mysteries, alternative science, and different types of creationism. As part of a short description, an image purporting to be of the Dorchester Pot appears on page 46 of the 1985 Reader's Digest Association book \"Mysteries of the Unexplained\". They do not provide any estimate of the age of the Dorchester Pot. The source that they credit for their photograph of the Dorchester Pot is Brad Steiger's \"Worlds Before Our Own\".\n\nThe photograph is also used in the Falun Gong website \"PureInsight\", which provides without any explanation an age of 100,000 years for this artifact. Michael Cremo, a well-known Hindu creationist, claims that the Dorchester Pot is evidence for the \"presence of artistic metal workers in North America over 600 million years ago.\" Some Young Earth creationists regard the Dorchester Pot as having been manufactured by an ancient civilization that predated the Noachian Flood.\n\nMainstream archaeologists argue that the Dorchester Pot is neither Ediacaran in age nor even from an ancient, lost civilization. They identify it as being a recognizable historic artifact.\n\nArchaeologists Keith Fitzpatrick-Matthews and James Doeser, whose website \"Bad Archaeology\" examines fringe archaeology, state that \"it is difficult to understand why anyone might take this report seriously\" and also identifies the object as \"clearly a candlestick of obviously Victorian style... why would anyone in 1852 believe that it was more than a few years old?\"\n\nWriting in 1964, the Italian debunker Biagio Catalano argued that the \"vase\" was actually almost identical, as in both shape and decorations, to an Indian pipe-holder stored at the Prince of Wales Museum (now known as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya) in Bombay.\n\n"}
{"id": "50355196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50355196", "title": "Dust Storm (Manter, Kansas)", "text": "Dust Storm (Manter, Kansas)\n\nDust Storm (Manter, Kansas) is a 3D digital simulation work of art, by John Gerrard.\n\nIn 2008, the Dust Storm was shown at Artropolis, Chicago.\nIn 2011, it was shown at PICA, Perth, Australia, Ivorypress, Madrid, Spain, and Irish Museum of Modern Art.\n\nThe 3D \"hyperreal\" portraits depict beautiful landscapes.\n\n"}
{"id": "29477819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29477819", "title": "El Conde", "text": "El Conde\n\nEl Conde is an archeological site located at Ozumba Street, El Conde, three block north the Mayo 1 Ave., in the municipality of Naucalpan, \nMexico State.\n\nThe site was formally declared a prehispanic historical monument on December 28, 2001\n\nThe Valley of Mexico, of which Naucalpan is part of, was inhabited by humans for over 20,000 years.\n\nNaucalpan's history begins with a group from the Tlatilco culture It settled the banks of the “Río Hondo” between 1700 and 600 BCE, in the area of the current Naucalpan municipality.\n\nTlatilco archaeological evidence reveal the social development of that culture, prior to the Teotihuacan, Toltec, Chichimeca, and certainly the Aztec.\nIn the Mesoamerican Preclassical period (1300 to 1400 BCE), an Olmec group arrived and had a significant influence on the Tlatilca domain. Later, the Tlatilca were also heavily influenced by the Teotihuacan civilization. Between 1000 and 1200 CE, the Chichimeca conquered the Tlatilca and deposed their monarchy. The pyramid of El Conde was built during this time, located in what is now the El Conde neighborhood.\n\nSubsequently, the area was ruled by Tlacopan and ethnically came to be dominated by the Otomies. As of 1428 CE, the area was under Tepanec from Azcapotzalco domain, which was later conquered by the Triple Alliance, who named them Naucalpan.\n\nNaucalpan is a Nahuatl name; some authors interpret its meaning as \"the place of the four quarters\" or \"in the four quarters\", but according to the etymological roots means \"in four houses\". Phonetic components are: Nau, grammatical contraction of nahui, means \"four\"; \"cal derived calli, which means \"House\" and not \"quarter\" and pan, it should be interpreted, in this case, as \"on\" or \"place\": \"in four houses\" or “place of four houses\".\n\nThe Tlatilca civilization –as called by later Nahuatl speaking groups- was a high population center in the early Preclassical period. The Tlatilco population reached the lands of current Naucalpan between 1700 and 600 BCE. Around 1400 BCE, the área had a large influence and presence of Otomí groups, and was called Otocampulco (Place of the Otomi).\n\nIn Naucalpan, ancient “tlatilquenses” from the “Cerro Tepalcate” were attracted by the Teotihuacan development stream.\n\nIt arrived at the place between 1000 and 1200 CE, and settled near where the Aztecs would later build (Postclassical) the structure known today as El Conde.\n\nIn 1428 the territory was claimed by Azcapotzalco tepanecs, but after being defeated by the Triple Alliance (Mexico), the territory was ceded to the Tlacopan Altepetl, who later called the place Tacuba.\n\nThe original name is unknown, El Conde retains this name since the 19th century, when a person by the name Manuel Conde lived atop the hill, so the place is known since as \" Cerrito El Conde\".\n\nThe site was discovered in 1907 by archaeologist Manuel Gamio, and established that the site was constructed during the Postclassical Period.\n\nThe El Conde pyramid, is an over 2,00m sq.mt., structure.\n\nThe archaeological site comprises a rectangular platform, during prehispanic times a tecpan or nobility Palace was built. Apparently, the structure corresponds to Aztec phase III.\n\nThe structure is one of the last examples of civil architecture from the late Postclassical. The front is a stairway and some embedded rooms that apparently at that time were very common for this type of buildings. Its layout is similar to those drawn in codices as the Quinantzin map, showing the Netzahualcoyotl Palace.\n\nThe tecpan was one of the most important buildings on mesoamerican communities, because they served as government seats, where administrative activities and meetings of local councils took place, where political decisions were taken.\n\n"}
{"id": "2785019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2785019", "title": "Enemy alien", "text": "Enemy alien\n\nIn customary international law, an enemy alien is any native, citizen, denizen or subject of any foreign nation or government with which a domestic nation or government is in conflict and who are liable to be apprehended, restrained, secured and removed. Usually, but not always, the countries are in a state of declared war.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, in 1939, the United Kingdom had become a place of refuge for people who had fled Nazi persecution, including Jews and political refugees. At first, the authorities interned these refugees with other enemy residents, without distinction. Later on, when Italy also declared war, significant numbers of Italian residents were also interned.\n\nThe Isle of Man, relatively isolated from the British mainland and with a useful amount of holiday accommodation, was used to provide housing for the \"Alien Civilians\" (as it had in World War I). There were also efforts to move internees from Britain. In July, 1940, the \"Arandora Star\" was torpedoed and sunk while transporting Italian and German aliens to North America; 743 died, including prisoners, crew and guards. The 813 surviving prisoners were subsequently included in the 2,500 men transported by HMT \"Dunera\" for internment in Hay, New South Wales.\n\nThe Pioneer Corps was apparently the only British unit that enemy aliens could serve in early in the war. Many thousands of Germans and Austrians joined the Pioneer Corps to assist the Allied war efforts and liberation of their home countries. These were mainly Jews and political opponents of the Nazi Regime who had fled to Britain while it was still possible, and included the cinematographer Ken Adam, writer George Clare and publisher Robert Maxwell. These men - often dubbed \"The King's Most Loyal Enemy Aliens\" - later moved on to serve in fighting units. Some were recruited by Special Operations Executive (S.O.E.) as secret agents. They were instructed to choose an \"English\" name using their old initials.\n\nServing as German nationals in the British forces was particularly dangerous, since, in case of taken captive, with a high probability they would have been executed as traitors by the Germans. Also, the number of German-born Jews joining the British forces was exceptionally high; by the end of the war, one in seven Jewish refugees from Germany had joined the British forces. Their profound knowledge of the German language and customs proved useful. Many of them served in the administration of the British occupation army in Germany and Austria after the war.\n\nA well-known example of enemy aliens were the Japanese citizens residing in the United States during World War II. Many of these Japanese and Japanese Americans were imprisoned in internment camps by President Roosevelt during wartime, alongside many German- and Italian-Americans. However, many Japanese Americans and Italian-Americans were not actually \"aliens\", as they held American citizenship. The term \"enemy alien\" referred only to non-American citizens who were nationals of Axis countries. Included in this number were thousands of resident aliens who were prohibited from applying for citizenship by race-based naturalization laws; when war was declared against their native countries, their status changed from \"resident\" to \"enemy\" alien. Therefore, German American, Italian American and Japanese American permanent residents were classified as enemy aliens and interned as such. In total 10,905 Italian Americans and approximately 110,000 Japanese Americans were interned in many different camps and sites across the country. German Americans were held in more than 50 different locations. \nCitizens of an enemy country who lived in the USA during World War II were required to have an \"Enemy Alien\" card and register monthly with the authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21678432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21678432", "title": "F. LaMond Tullis", "text": "F. LaMond Tullis\n\nFloyd LaMond Tullis (born 1935) has been a professor of political science and Associate Academic Vice President at Brigham Young University (BYU). He is a specialist in Latin American Studies and has written multiple works on the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Latin America, especially Mexico.\n\nTullis received his master's degree in political science from Brigham Young University. Tullis has a doctorate in political science earned at Harvard University. He has been a visiting fellow at the London School of Economics and the Institute of Developmental Studies.\n\nAmong the books written by Tullis are \"Lord and Peasant in Peru\", \"Politics and Social Change in Third World Countries\", \"Mormons in Mexico\", \"The Church Moves Outside the United States: Some Observations from South America\", \"Modernization in Brazil\" and \"Handbook of research on the illicit drug trade\". Tullis was also the general editor of \"Mormonism: A Faith For All Cultures\". Tullis has also written multiple articles published in BYU Studies related to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Latin America.\n\nTullis is a believing Latter-day Saint.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1380859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1380859", "title": "Folklore in Hawaii", "text": "Folklore in Hawaii\n\nFolklore in Hawaii in modern times is a mixture of various aspects of Hawaiian mythology and various urban legends that have been passed on regarding various places in the Hawaiian islands. The following is a partial list of some of these legends.\n\nAccording to Hawaiian legend, night marchers (\"huaka‘i po\" in Hawaiian) are ghosts of ancient warriors. They supposedly roam large sections of the island chain, and can be seen by groups of torches. They can usually be found in areas that were once large battlefields (the Nuuanu Pali on the island of Oahu is a good example.) Legend has it that if you look a night marcher straight in the eye, you will be forced to walk among them for eternity, but if you have a relative taken by them, you will be spared. Hawaiians say that in the presence of night marchers, one should lie down on their stomach, face down to avoid eye contact, stay quiet, breathe shallowly, and don’t move. Some say that they may nudge you to provoke a reaction so they can take you. Moanalua Gardens is one of the many places the Night Marchers are said to roam.\n\nLocal folklore on the island of Oahu says that one should never carry pork over the Pali Highway connecting Honolulu and Windward Oahu. The stories vary, but the classic legend is that if one carries pork of any kind over the old Pali road (not the modern pali highway) by automobile, the automobile would stop at a certain point on the way and not restart until the pork is removed from the vehicle. \n\nThis legend has its roots in ancient Hawaiian mythology. According to legend, the Hawaiian volcano goddess Pele and the demigod Kamapua‘a (a half-man-half-pig) had a turbulent relationship, and the two agreed not to visit each other. If one takes pork over the Pali, the legend goes, one is symbolically taking a piece of Kamapua‘a from one side to the other, and it is said that Pele would stop that from happening.\n\nAlternately, the legend is attributed to a magic dog, which was killed and cooked and put in an 'umeke to be carried over the pali and given as a gift to the mother/wife of the perpetrator. Women did not eat pork in ancient Hawaii, but were allowed to eat dog. The dog's owner followed and called to the dog, which came alive, answered from within the 'umeke, causing the carrier to drop his pole and flee. The dog then returns to its master. A dog as food was offensive to the American missionaries, and under their influence, the dog meat in the story became pork. The Pele/Kamapua'a stories were adapted to make the story fit, the old lady in the white holoku is also Pele, but that too was corrupted from other tales.\n\nYou can apparently hear a spectre/banshee screaming while walking along the path. Paradise Park is the never discarded name of the bird show/exhibit that was located there in the past. It was abandoned for an unknown reason. If one goes to the side of the parking lot you will see the overgrown ruins of a nursery. Behind this is a covered walkway twisting its way through dilapitated cages and building, some still bearing signs telling what kind of bird was housed there. On one side of these buildings is a small hut with a statuette of the Virgin Mary, and a Portuguese stone oven. There is also a Japanese pagoda. There are no records of cultural exhibits at Paradise Park, so the purpose of these buildings remains a mystery.\n\nAt one time, the land that is now subdivisions in Waialae and Kahala Mall in eastern Honolulu were once the site of a graveyard. Since that time, two known events have occurred there.\n\nThe story of the green lady is that of a woman who would visit the gulch of Wahiawa, which also contains the Wahiawa Botanical Garden, with her children. One day while visiting one of her children became lost and was never found. The story goes that she still wanders the gulch looking for her child, or children, and will take any child that she comes across in the gulch. There have been several reports of seeing a green woman covered in moss or mold wandering the gulch. Others say that the green woman closely resembles that of a Japanese mythological creature called the kappa. This creature is said to resemble a turtle-like humanoid that steals children to feast upon. The last known sighting was said to have happened in the mid to late 1980s. In modern times, children and teenagers dare each other to run across the bridge that runs over the gulch at night. Most speculators say that this story was made up to keep children from wandering into the gulch by themselves.\n"}
{"id": "40272799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40272799", "title": "Foreign state of chargeability", "text": "Foreign state of chargeability\n\nThe foreign state of chargeability is a United States immigration concept – it is the country determined to be the applicant's origin. In general, the applicant's country of birth will determine their country of chargeability. For certain applicants born in oversubscribed countries such as India and China, approval to be chargeable to another country can significantly reduce the waiting time for their adjustment of status or consular processing of their green card application. This process is also known as \"alternate chargeability\".\n\nThe rules, codified in section 202(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, allow USCIS to determine the country of chargeability according to the following rules:\n\n\nUSCIS – Foreign State of Chargeability Uscis.gov (n.d.). USCIS – Foreign State of Chargeability. Retrieved 20 Aug 2013.\n"}
{"id": "28266485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28266485", "title": "Foundations of Science", "text": "Foundations of Science\n\nFoundations of Science is a peer-reviewed interdisciplinary academic journal focussing on methodological and philosophical topics concerning the structure and the growth of science. It is the official journal of the Association for Foundations of Science, Language and Cognition and is published quarterly by Springer Science+Business Media. The journal was established in 1995. The editor in chief is Diederik Aerts.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Arts and Humanities Citation Index, Cengage, EBSCO Databases, FRANCIS, Google Scholar, Mathematical Reviews, PASCAL, Science Citation Index Expanded, Scopus, and Zentralblatt MATH.\n\n"}
{"id": "510026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=510026", "title": "Heptaméron", "text": "Heptaméron\n\nThe Heptaméron is a collection of 72 short stories written in French by Marguerite of Navarre (1492–1549), published posthumously in 1558. It has the form of a frame narrative and was inspired by \"The Decameron\" of Giovanni Boccaccio. It was originally intended to contain one hundred stories covering ten days just as \"The Decameron\" does, but at Marguerite’s death it was only completed as far as the second story of the eighth day. Many of the stories deal with love, lust, infidelity, and other romantic and sexual matters. One was based on the life of Marguerite de La Rocque, a French noblewoman who was punished by being abandoned with her lover on an island off Quebec.\n\nThe collection first appeared in print in 1558 under the title \"Histoires des amans fortunez\" edited by Pierre Boaistuau, who took considerable liberties with the original version, using only 67 of the stories, many in abbreviated form, and omitting much of the significant material between the stories. He also transposed stories and ignored their grouping into days as envisaged by the author. A second edition by Claude Gruget appeared only a year later in which the editor claimed to have \"restored the order previously confused in the first impression\". Also the prologues and epilogues to each short story left out by Boaistuau were put back and the work was given, for the first time, the title \"Heptaméron\" (from the Greek ἑπτά – \"seven\" and ἡμέρα – \"day\") due to the seven-day time frame into which the first 70 short stories are grouped.\n\nIn the \"Prologue\" to \"The Heptameron\", Parlamente, having obtained her husband Hircan's permission to do so, makes bold to ask Lady Oisille to devise an appropriate means by which the company of stranded guests, who are waiting for the building of a bridge to be completed and who are beset by a series of natural calamities and criminal actions that keeps them virtual prisoners in an abbey, may amuse themselves. A devout Christian, the lady suggests that they read the Bible. However, Hircan says that they are young enough to need other diversions as well. Parlamente suggests that those who want to write stories after the manner of Boccaccio, do so, sharing them with the others in the afternoon, after Scriptures are read in the morning. (Marguerite herself was a protector of François Rabelais, who dedicated the third volume of his book, \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\", to her.) It will take 10 days to complete the bridge, and, each day, in a shady grove in a meadow, the writers will share 10 tales, telling a total of 100 stories. The stories will be published, if the audience likes them, and be presented to the listeners as presents.\n\nLady Oisille agrees to Parlamente's recommendation, provided that the stories are true.\n\nSaffrendent tells the third story, which is set in Naples, Italy, during the reign of King Alfonso.\n\nDuring a carnival, the king visits his subjects’ homes as they vie to provide him the best hospitality. As he visits a happily married young couple, he is smitten by the wife’s beauty, and he sends her husband to Rome for a couple weeks on trumped-up business. While the husband is away, the king succeeds in seducing the wife. After a while, the husband becomes suspicious of his wife’s fidelity. He bides his time in silence, hoping for the opportunity to avenge himself.\n\nHe convinces the queen that he loves her and that she deserves to be treated better by her husband, who dishonors her in cuckolding him. They agree to an adulterous affair between themselves, so that the nobleman cuckolds the king who has cuckolded him. Whenever the nobleman visits his country estates, the king visits his wife, but secretly lusts after men. Instead of going to his estates, the nobleman now goes to the castle to dally with the queen, while the king commits adultery with his wife. The affairs continue for years, well into the couples’ old age.\n\nLike many stories of this sort, Saffredent’s tale deals with the theme of cuckoldry and depends on both dramatic and situational irony for its plot and effects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37004378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37004378", "title": "Hire Benakal", "text": "Hire Benakal\n\nHire Benakal (or Hirebenakal) is a megalithic site in the state of Karnataka, India. It is among a few Indian megalithic sites dated 800 BCE to 200 BCE which are located west of Gangavati town in Koppal district and from Hospet city. It contains roughly 400 megalithic funerary monuments, dated to the transition period between Neolithic and the Iron Age periods. Known locally in the Kannada language as \"elu guddagalu,\" their specific name is \"Moryar Gudda\" (\"gudda\", meaning \"hill\"). Hire Benakal is reported to be the largest necropolis among the 2000 odd megalithic sites found in South India, mostly in Karnataka. Since 1955, it has been under the management of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) within the Dharwad circle. Hire Benakal has been proposed for recognition as an UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe funerary monuments are located on a rocky range of seven hillocks. The site is on the left bank of the Tungabhadra River. It is covered with thorny bushes and slippery scattered boulders. The climb to reach the site is difficult as there are no regular paths or roads, except for a goat track. In addition, a rivulet has to be crossed. A perennial source of water has been found in the form of a lake and an old quarry site discovered nearby was probably the source for building materials of the type found in Hire Benakal monuments. Hire Benakal village is approachable from the towns of Gangavathi, Hospet and Koppal by the state highway. The nearest railway station to the site is Hospet.\n\nThis site was built more than 2000 years ago; many of the megalithic structures are dated to between 800 BCE and 200 BCE. The Iron Age period spanned more than 1000 years from 1200 BCE to 200 CE in this part of India. The port-holed chamber in the western group of the Hire Benakal area has been compared to similar finds at Rajankolur.\n\nThe first published reports on Hire Benakal were those in the \"Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society\" in 1835, by Philip Meadows Taylor, who was under the service of the Nizam of Hyderabad. For over a century thereafter, no further systematic study of the site was conducted. Between 1944-48, Sir Mortimer Wheeler undertook archaeological excavations; these were supplemented by Adiga Sundara and were published in 1975. In his publication, \"The Early Chamber Tombs of South India: A Study of the Iron Age Megalithic Monuments of North Karnataka\", Sundara's cataloging describes details of 300 megalithic burial chambers at a site which was surrounded in thick forest. Andrew Bauer of the Department of Anthropology at the University of Illinois has carried out investigations in recent years and has identified about 1000 different types of antiquaries from an area of about . His finds describe anthropomorphic funerary structures, menhirs, and stone fences in circular shapes. Bauer has further stated that the dolmens supported by stone slabs have been erected perfectly without any joining mortar.\n\nThe setting for the approximately 400 megalithic monuments convey the feeling of a ghost town. Their structures are varied in shape and size. There are clusters of dolmens, three sided chambers with capstones forming the roof. The small dolmens are , while the larger ones measure up to height. The buried and semi-buried dolmens are categorized as cists and dolmenoid cists, and are arranged in circular layouts. Most of them have collapsed. The dolmens with round portholes give the appearance of dwellings with windows but they are funerary structures. These dolmens flank both sides of the main street. Pit circles and oblong chambers covered with gable stone roofs have also been found. The dolmenoid cists are in several shapes and sizes. Those in an oblong shape are discerned to have been built with packing of rubble stones at the ground level. A circular enclosure is noted. Around these structures there is a pit filled with layers of earth. In rock shelters, there are paintings of people dancing, hunting, and holding weapons. There are also geometric and mystic designs of deer, peacocks, antelopes, humped bulls, horses and cows. An unusual find is a stone kettledrum on a high boulder. The boulder is hemispherical in shape with a diameter of and standing in height. The boulder, when struck with a wooden hammer, produces sounds which are heard up to away. In this area, the caves were either residences or places of worship; they contained cave paintings in red ocher colour which corroborates the existences of the funerary structures nearby. \nPottery from the neolithic have been found. Pre-megalithic implements, iron slag, pottery of Neolithic, megalithic and early historic period have been identified. Iron implements, a common megalithic period find in South India, is also found at Hire Benakal site. These cultural finds are both neolithic and megalithic period implements. Along with megalithic period pottery, iron slag was also part of the finds.\n\nAlthough the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is entrusted with renovation and maintenance of this site, hardly any activity is evident. It is not a well known site among the people of India and only a few dozen foreign tourists visit the site annually. Improving signage is essential at the base of the hill and near the Raichur-Koppal State Highway. The dolmens have been subject to looting over the centuries by robbers in search of treasures. Shepherds continue to graze their livestock at the site, resulting in frequent collapse of the dolmens.\n\nDuring an annual festival, local people do not venture to this area for cattle grazing as they believe that on the festival day, God walks through the seven hills of Hire Benakal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12422033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12422033", "title": "Hollywood's Comedy Nights", "text": "Hollywood's Comedy Nights\n\nHollywood's Comedy Nights is an English-language stand-up comedy show in Cologne, Germany. The show was started by stand-up comedian, actor and MC Johnny \"Hollywood\" Rotnem, and has played in numerous venues since 2000. It has also been a part of the Cologne Comedy Festival since 2003, and claims to have been the first English-language stand-up comedy show in Germany.\n\n\"Hollywoods Comedy Nights\" was founded by John \"Hollywood\" Rotnem to give himself and other comedians regular stage-time in which to practice and improve their act. Initially, just one German-language show was performed, monthly, at the Melody Club. On moving to Flanagan's in the Altstadt in 2004, the show became two separate monthly shows, one featuring German-language performers, the other featuring comedy in English, due to demand from the large British/American Forces and English-speaking expatriate community in the North Rhine Westphalen area. The show began featuring both local native-English-speaking comedians, German who wished to try their hand at English language comedy, and imported native-English comedians from the UK, US and Canada.\n\nWith the move to the Cologne Hard Rock Cafe, the show concentrated solely on English-language stand-up comedy, as the audience for the German-language show had dropped off, and because many people confused the English and German shows. A sister show, at Fiddlers Pub in Bonn-Endenich, started in March 2007. By mid-2007, a change of ownership and new limitations on live shows at the Hard Rock Cafe forced a change of venue, to the Alter Wartesaal at Cologne Hauptbahnhof. The large size of the Alter Wartesaal and the positioning of the show in the week (Mondays) made it extremely difficult to fill, and so only three shows took place there. The show then moved back to Flanagan's Irish Pub in the Altermarkt, not far from the Alter Wartesaal.\n\nMany comedians have performed in the shows, such as Heinz Gröning(better known to German audiences as \"der Unglaubliche Heinz\", moderator of \"Um Antwort wird Gebieten\"(Comedy Central) and \"FunkHaus\" (WDR)), Chris McCausland, Steve Day and Pommy Johnson. The show features established English-speaking comedians, as well as giving German performers the chance to try their hand at performing in English.\n\nThe show is one of a growing number of venues in Germany that feature English-language performers, other notable venues being The English Comedy Club in Munich and The Kookaburra Comedy Club in Berlin. As well as featuring native-speaking English comedians, the show gives German comedians the chance to try their hand at comedy in the English language.\n\nIn an attempt to produce more local English-language comedians, Johnny Hollywood founded Comedians Anonymous, a comedy collective which aims to help fledgling comedians take their first steps as performers. Some members of the collective are occasionally featured in the \"Comedy Nights\" show. The most frequently-performing members of the collective (so far) are James Allan(UK), Casey James(USA), Cat LaRouge(Norway) and Steve Dix(UK).\n\nAn Open Mike Night is occasionally staged, as another way of finding new talent.\n\nThe following is a list of some of the comedians who have performed at the show, and the dates they performed. Dates before 2007 are difficult to ascertain due to lack of 3rd party details. To add to the confusion, some performers have only performed in the German shows, some in both, and some in the English shows. the list is by no means exhaustive, and only includes notable comedians and doesn't include show presenters.\n\nKey : C - Cologne, B - Bonn, F - Cologne Comedy Fest\n\nComedian Manuel Wolff performing at Flanagan's\n"}
{"id": "6220069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6220069", "title": "Humanities Advanced Technology and Information Institute", "text": "Humanities Advanced Technology and Information Institute\n\nThe Humanities Advanced Technology and Information Institute (HATII) was a research and teaching institute at the University of Glasgow in Scotland. It was established in 1997 to enhance Glasgow’s reputation as a centre of excellence in Humanities Computing and Information Studies with Professor Seamus Ross as its Founding Director (until 2009). HATII led innovative research in archival and library science and in information/knowledge management with emphasis on their impact on the growth of the creative industries. Recognised and pioneering research strengths were in the areas of humanities computing, digitisation, digital curation and preservation, and archives and records management. Members of HATII, most of whom had day-to-day experience mediating information in a variety of formats, led research under the broad headings of access and re-usability, content analysis and appraisal, evaluation and impact technologies, and preservation/curation.\n\nHATII was home to or partner in range of national and international research initiatives, including AHDS Performing Arts, 3D-COFORM (Tools and Expertise for 3D Collection Formation), SHAMAN (Sustaining Heritage Access through Multivalent ArchiviNg), DigiCULT, CASPAR (Cultural, Artistic and Scientific knowledge Preservation,for Access and Retrieval), DELOS Digital Library Network of Excellence Preservation Cluster, Planets (Preservation and Long-term Access to our Cultural and Scientific Heritage), Primarily History, Mapping the Practice and Profession of Sculpture in Britain and Ireland 1851-1951 and TheGlasgowStory. In addition to its contributions to these research projects, its groundbreaking initiative Electronic Research Preservation and Access NETwork (ERPANET) had a broad impact on developing the preservation research community ethos in Europe. It was followed by Digital Preservation Europe|DigitalPreservationEurope (DPE) which produced such research outputs as DRAMBORA and PLATTER, experimented with animation as a mechanism for dissemination of scholarship. HATII was a founding partner of the UK's Digital Curation Centre (DCC)in 2004.\n\nInformation about scholarship conducted at HATII is available in Research Assessment Exercise submissions for RAE2001 and RAE2008. Crucial in its development was its transition from an early research emphasis on tools and services as seen in its 2001 RAE submission to a focus on fundamental research and theory (evident in its RAE2008 submission) in such areas as investigations of the cultural production and the creation and communication of knowledge in the arts, humanities and cultural heritage, materiality of the digital, knowledge representation and dissemination, records and recordkeeping practices, data and digital curation, genre studies, digitiality in museums, and more recently games studies.\n\nBetween 1997 and when it launched its first degree programs in the early 2000s HATII pioneered teaching in such domains as Multimedia (from 1997), Digitisation (from 1998), and Cyberspace Studies (from 2000). HATII founded the UK's first postgraduate program in digital preservation/curation as an MSc Information Management and Preservation in 2001. In 2003 building on its record of undergraduate teaching it launched a joint honours MA in Arts and Media Informatics which eventually became a single honours MA in Digital Media and Information Studies. Both the undergraduate MA and the MSc are accredited CILIP (Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals) and the MSc is also accredited by the UK Archives and Records Association. In 2010 HATII established an MSc program in Museum Studies.\n\nAfter twenty years HATII became, in September 2017, Information Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "35621696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35621696", "title": "I Am a Pole (And So Can You!)", "text": "I Am a Pole (And So Can You!)\n\nI Am a Pole (And So Can You!) is a 2012 spoof of inspirational children's books. It was written by Stephen Colbert and illustrated by Paul Hildebrand. The book tells the story of a fictional pole finding his purpose in life. The title is a play on Colbert's first book, \"I Am America (And So Can You!)\". All proceeds from the audiobook go to the United States Veterans Initiative, a non-profit dedicated to returning troops.\n\nThe book is notable for a blurb of endorsement on the cover attributed to children's writer Maurice Sendak. During a January 2012 interview of Sendak by Colbert, Colbert shared a draft of the book with Sendak, to which Sendak stated \"The sad thing is, I like it!\"; the statement was used as the blurb for the cover. Soon afterward, Colbert reportedly secured a publishing deal for the book. Sendak coincidentally died the morning of the book's release, and, in tribute, \"The Colbert Report\" aired uncensored previously unreleased clips of the interview, with Colbert encouraging those unfamiliar with Sendak's work to \"read his books. And for those who don't read, they've got lots of pictures.\"\n\nReviewers of the book noted that this book, while seemingly targeted to children, contains imagery which may be considered adult in nature, such as a scene of a stripper performing striptease on the eponymous pole. Colbert, parodying the marketing of inspirational books, mentioned on his show that the book is \"the perfect gift to give a child, or grandchild, for their high school or college graduation. Also, Father's Day. Also, other times.\"\n\nOn July 18, 2012, the Rosenbach Museum added the book to its collections, and displayed its manuscript and several artifacts that Colbert claimed were on his desk when the book was written next to the manuscript of \"Ulysses\", along with artifacts from the original interview.\n\nOther Formats\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8665643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8665643", "title": "Iximche", "text": "Iximche\n\nIximche () (or Iximché using Spanish orthography) is a Pre-Columbian Mesoamerican archaeological site in the western highlands of Guatemala. Iximche was the capital of the Late Postclassic Kaqchikel Maya kingdom from 1470 until its abandonment in 1524. The architecture of the site included a number of pyramid-temples, palaces and two Mesoamerican ballcourts. Excavators uncovered the poorly preserved remains of painted murals on some of the buildings and ample evidence of human sacrifice. The ruins of Iximche were declared a Guatemalan National Monument in the 1960s. The site has a small museum displaying a number of pieces found there, including sculptures and ceramics. It is open daily.\n\nFor many years the Kaqchikel served as loyal allies of the K'iche' Maya. The growing power of the Kaqchikel within the alliance eventually caused such friction that the Kaqchikel were forced to flee the K'iche' capital and found the city of Iximche. The Kaqchikel established their new capital upon an easily defensible ridge almost surrounded by deep ravines. Iximche developed quickly as a city and within 50 years of its foundation it had reached its maximum extent. The rulers of Iximche were four principal lords drawn from the four main clans of the Kaqchikel, although it was the lords of the Sotz'il and Xahil clans who held the real power.\n\nAfter the initial establishment of Iximche, the K'iche' left the Kaqchikel in peace for a number of years. The peace did not last and the Kaqchikel soundly defeated their former overlords around 1491. This was followed by infighting among the Kaqchikel clans with the rebel clans finally being overcome in 1493. Wars against the K'iche' continued throughout the early 16th century. When the Spanish conquistadors arrived in Mexico, the Aztec emperor sent messengers to warn the Kaqchikel. After the surrender of the Aztecs to Hernán Cortés, Iximche sent its own messengers to offer a Kaqchikel alliance with the Spanish. Smallpox decimated the population of Iximche before the physical arrival of the Europeans. At the time of the Spanish Conquest Iximche was the second most important city in the Guatemalan Highlands, after the K'iche' capital at Q'umarkaj. Conquistador Pedro de Alvarado was initially well received in the city in 1524 and the Kaqchikel kings provided the Spanish with native allies to assist in the conquest of the other highland Maya kingdoms. Iximche was declared the first capital of the Kingdom of Guatemala in the same year. Due to excessive Spanish demands for tribute the Kaqchikel soon broke the alliance and deserted their capital, which was burned 2 years later by Spanish deserters. The Europeans founded a new town nearby but abandoned it in 1527 due to the continued hostility of the Kaqchikel, who finally surrendered in 1530.\n\nThe ruins of Iximche were first described by a Guatemalan historian in the late 17th century. They were visited various times by scholars during the 19th century, who published plans and descriptions. Serious investigations of the site started in the 1940s and continued sporadically until the early 1970s. In 1980, during the Guatemalan Civil War, a meeting took place at the ruins between guerillas and Maya leaders that resulted in the guerillas stating that they would defend indigenous rights. A ritual was carried out at the site in 1989 in order to reestablish the ruins as a sacred place for Maya ceremonies. United States President George W. Bush visited the site in 2007, and in the same year Iximche was the venue for the III Continental Summit of Indigenous Peoples and Nationalities of Abya Yala.\n\nThe site's name derives from the Mayan name of the ramon tree (\"Brosimum alicastrum\"), from the words \"ixim\" and \"che\", meaning literally \"maize tree\". Iximche was called \"Guatemala\" by the Spanish, from the Nahuatl \"Quauhtemallan\" meaning \"forested land\". Since the Spanish conquistadors founded their first capital at Iximche, they took the name of the city used by their Nahuatl-speaking Mexican allies and applied it to the new Spanish city and, by extension, to the kingdom. From this comes the modern name of the country. The site has also been referred to as Patinamit by 19th century investigators, a Kaqchikel word meaning \"the city\".\n\nIximche is located south of Tecpán, and west of Guatemala City, in the northwest of the Guatemalan department of Chimaltenango. The city was built at an altitude of in an easily defensible position on a ridge surrounded by deep ravines, in order to defend the city from its hostile K'iche' and Tz'utujil neighbours. The ridge is called Ratzamut and is a promontory of Tecpán hill, a mountain to the northwest of the ruins, which sit at the southeastern end of this promontory. The ridge is flanked by two rivers flowing in deep ravines, Río El Molino and Río Los Chocoyos, which both join to flow southwest into the Madre Vieja River, which empties into the Pacific Ocean. Iximche is located among pine forests common to highland Guatemala.\n\nThe Kaqchikel kingdom itself was divided among four clans that between them contained ten principal lineages or \"big houses\". The clans themselves were the Xahil, who were the main branch of the Kaqchikel, the Sotz'il, the Tukuche and the Akajal.\n\nThe rulers of Iximche were four principal lords with the titles of \"Ahpo Sotz'il\", \"Ahpo Xahil\", \"K'alel Achi\" and \"Ahuchan\", although in reality it was the first two of these that held the real power. The two main clans of the Kaqchikel people each provided a leader, one was the \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" (\"Lord of the Sotz'il\") and the other was the \"Ahpo Xahil\". These royal titles were originally bestowed upon the leaders of the Xahil and Sotz'il clans by the K'iche' in gratitude for their military services to the K'iche' Kingdom of Q'umarkaj. Both leaders were supposed to be equal in rank but in practice the Sotz'il king was the senior (or \"nab'ey al\", \"firstborn child\") while the king of the Xahil was subordinate (the \"chipil al\", \"lastborn child\"). The \"K'alel Achi\" and the \"Ahuchan\" were the other two lords, which translate from Kaqchikel as the \"principal person\" and the \"speaker\". The Kaqchikel document \"Testamento de los Xpantzay\" gives alternate titles for two of the four lords. This document lists the \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" and the \"Ahpo Xahil\" as the two most important, the other two lords were drawn from two additional clans and were the \"Ahpo Tukuche\" (\"Lord of the Tukuche\") and the \"Ahpo Raxonihay\" (\"Lord of the Raxonihay\").\n\nThe titles of \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" and \"Ahpo Xahil\" were passed from father to son. The Xahil heir bore the title \"Ahpop Achi Ygich\", and the Sotz'il heir bore the title \"Ahpop Achi Balam\". They were important positions in their own right and the heirs were military leaders who commanded on the battlefield.\n\nWhen Iximche was founded in the late 15th century AD Wuqu-Batz' was \"Ahpo Sotz'il\", Hun-Toh was \"Ahpo Xahil\", Chuluk was \"K'alel Achi\" and Xitamel-Keh was \"Ahuchan\". According to the early Colonial Kaqchikel document \"Memorial de Sololá\", the last two of these were not very important. Each of the four lords had his own section in the new city that included his palace, royal court and temples.\n\nArchaeologists only found traces of one pre-Kaqchikel occupational phase and this was an ancient level dating to the Late Preclassic. Occasional Early and Late Classic remains have been found but they are incidental and do not represent a Classic Period occupation of the site.\n\nThe Kaqchikel people were closely related to the K'iche', their former allies. The K'iche'an peoples (including the Kaqchikel, the K'iche' and others) had received strong influences from central Mexico since the time of the great Early Classic metropolis of Teotihuacan. The history of Iximche is largely drawn from the \"Annals of the Kaqchikels\", a document written in the Kaqchikel language but using Latin characters soon after the Spanish Conquest. This document details the origins, history and conquest of the Kaqchikels. The Kaqchikel served as close allies of the K'iche' for many years. The Kaqchikel rulers Hun-Toh and Wuqu-Batz' served the great K'iche' king K'iq'ab with such loyalty that he rewarded them with the royal titles \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" and \"Ahpo Xahil\" and the power to rule. The sons of K'iq'ab became jealous of the growing power of the Kaqchikel lords and led a revolt against their father that seriously damaged his authority. This revolt had serious consequences for the K'iche' as their conquered domains seized the opportunity to break free from their subjugation.\n\nA minor incident in the K'iche' capital Q'umarkaj escalated to have important consequences. A K'iche' soldier tried to seize bread from a Kaqchikel woman who was selling it in the market. The woman refused the soldier and drove him off with a stick. The Kaqchikel demanded the execution of the K'iche' soldier while the K'iche' nobility demanded the punishment of the Kaqchikel bread seller. When the Kaqchikel lords refused to hand her over, the K'iche' lords sentenced Hun-Toh and Wuqu-Batz' to death against the wishes of the K'iche' king K'iq'ab. King K'iq'ab warned his Kaqchikel friends and advised them to flee Q'umarkaj. On the day 13 Iq' of the Kaqchikel calendar the four lords of the Kaqchikel led their people out of the K'iche' capital to found their own capital at Iximche. The exact year of this event is not known with certainty but is believed to have been between AD 1470 and 1485, with some scholars, such as Guillemín, preferring 1470. The Kaqchikel abandoned their previous capital \"Chiavar\" (speculated to be modern Chichicastenango) because it was too close to Q'umarkaj.\n\nK'iq'ab prevented his nobles from making war on the Kaqchikel for the remainder of his life, giving his former allies the time to establish their own kingdom and prepare its defences. When Hun-Toh died he was succeeded by his son Lahuh-Ah. Lahuh-Ah died in 1488 and was replaced by Kablahuh-Tihax. Oxlahuh-Tz'i', the son of Wuqu-Batz', had a long and successful reign and lived through the reigns of two of his co-rulers.\n\nThe Kaqchikel kings Oxlahuh-Tz'i' and Kablahuh-Tihax gained a definitive victory over the K'iche' around 1491 when they captured the K'iche' kings Tepepul and Itzayul together with the idol of their most important deity Tohil. The captured K'iche' kings were sacrificed together with a number of nobles and high-ranking soldiers, including the son and grandson of the king. After this defeat of the K'iche', two Kaqchikel clans rebelled, the Akahal and the Tukuche. The kings Oxlahuh-Tz'i' and Kablahuh-Tihax crushed the rebellion on 20 May 1493.\n\nOxlahuh-Tz'i' died on 23 July 1508 and was succeeded by his son Hun-Iq'. Kablahuh-Tihax died on 4 February 1509 and was succeeded by his son Lahuh-Noh. The Kaqchikel continued their wars against the K'iche' kingdom over the following decade. The Aztec emperor Moctezuma II sent messengers to the Kaqchikel in 1510, warning of strangers in the Caribbean. In 1512 he sent another messenger (named as Witz'itz'il) warning of the arrival of the Spanish in Yucatán and Veracruz.\n\nIn 1513 the Kaqchikel suffered from a plague of locusts. The following year, in 1514, Iximche was severely damaged by a fire. A plague, described as terrible in the Annals of the Kaqchikel, struck the city in 1519 and lasted two years, resulting in a large number of deaths. This was likely to have been smallpox brought to the Americas with the Spanish. After the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan fell to the Spanish onslaught in 1521, the Kaqchikel sent messengers to Hernán Cortés offering an alliance with the Spanish.\n\nOn 11 August 1521, Belehe Qat and Cahi Imox were chosen as lords of the city after the deaths of Hun-Iq' and Lahuh-Noh, the previous kings. Cahi Imox was the \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" and Belehe Qat was the \"Ahpo Xahil\". On the eve of the Spanish Conquest, the Kaqchikel kingdom based at Iximche was still expanding into areas formerly controlled by the K'iche' and it was rapidly becoming the most powerful new kingdom in the Guatemalan Highlands. It was second in importance only to the K'iche' capital at Q'umarkaj.\n\nWhen Spanish conquistador Pedro de Alvarado arrived in what is now Guatemala in 1524, 3 years after the conquest of the Aztecs, he found the highland Maya kingdoms weakened by twenty years of warfare and swept by the first European plagues. In the period of February to March 1524 he fought and completely defeated the K'iche', razed Q'umarkaj and executed the K'iche' kings. The Spanish were invited into Iximche on 14 April 1524 and were well received by the lords Belehe Qat and Cahi Imox. The Kaqchikel kings provided native soldiers to assist the conquistadors against continuing K'iche' resistance and to help with the defeat of the neighbouring Tz'utuhil kingdom. The Spanish only stayed briefly in Iximche before continuing through Atitlán, Escuintla and Cuscatlán. The Spanish returned to the Kaqchikel capital on 23 July 1524 and on 27 July (\"1 Q'at\" in the Kaqchikel calendar) Pedro de Alvarado declared Iximche as the first capital of Guatemala, Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala (\"St. James of the Knights of Guatemala\").\n\nPedro de Alvarado rapidly began to demand gold in tribute from the Kaqchikels, souring the friendship between the two peoples. He demanded that the Kaqchikel kings deliver 1000 gold leaves each of 15 pesos. A Kaqchikel priest foretold that the Kaqchikel gods would destroy the Spanish and the Kaqchikel people abandoned their city and fled to the forests and hills on 28 August 1524 (\"7 Ahmak\" in the Kaqchikel calendar). Ten days later the Spanish declared war on the Kaqchikel. A couple of years later, on 9 February 1526, a group of sixteen Spanish deserters burnt the palace of the \"Ahpo Xahil\", sacked the temples and kidnapped a priest, acts that the Kaqchikel blamed on Pedro de Alvarado. Conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo recounted how in 1526 he returned to Iximche and spent the night in the \"old city of Guatemala\" together with Luis Marín and other members of Hernán Cortés's expedition to Honduras. He reported that the houses of the city were still in excellent condition, his account was the last description of the city while it was still inhabitable.\n\nThe Spanish founded a new town at Tecpán Guatemala, with \"Tecpán\" being Nahuatl for \"palace\", so the name of the new town translated as \"the palace among the trees\". The inhabitants of Iximche were dispersed, with some being moved to Tecpán, others to Sololá and to other towns around Lake Atitlán.\n\nThe Spaniards abandoned Tecpán in 1527, due to the continuous Kaqchikel attacks, and moved to the Almolonga Valley to the east, refounding their capital on the site of today's San Miguel Escobar district of Ciudad Vieja, near Antigua Guatemala.\n\nThe Kaqchikel kept up resistance against the Spanish for a number of years but on 9 May 1530 the two kings of the most important clans returned from the wilds. A day later they were joined by many nobles and their families and many more people came with them to surrender at the new Spanish capital at Ciudad Vieja.\n\nThe ruins were described by Guatemalan historian Francisco Antonio de Fuentes y Guzmán in 1695. Miguel Rivera Maestre published some plans and views of the ruins in 1834 in his \"Atlas del Estado de Guatemala\" (\"Atlas of the State of Guatemala\"). American diplomat and writer John Lloyd Stephens described the ruins, which he called \"Patinamit\", after he visited Iximche with English artist Frederick Catherwood and in 1840. Catherwood never published any drawings of the site and Stephens reported that the locals had plundered the stone at the site for many years in order to use it for building materials in Tecpán. French architect Cesar Daly mapped Iximche in 1857.\n\nIn Spanish Colonial times Iximche was the focus of a syncretic cult worshipping a relic from the ruins that had been transferred to the church in Tecpán. As late as the 19th century processions to the ruins from Tecpán took place every Good Friday. This cult had died out by the time of the Guatemalan Civil War in the late 20th century.\n\nAlfred P. Maudslay visited Iximche in 1887 and referred to it both as \"Patinamit\" and \"Iximche\". He carried out a site survey and published a plan of the ruins. Robert Wauchope carried out a ceramic study of Iximche in the 1940s on behalf of the Middle American Research Institute of Tulane University and published his work in 1948–1949. Historian Janos de Szecsy began excavations at the ruins in January 1956. The remains of the city were excavated by Swiss-Guatemalan archaeologist George (Jorge) Guillemín from 1959-1972. Guillemín published his work in 1959, 1967 and 1969. The excavation and restoration of the ruins was funded by the Guatemalan Committee for Reconstruction of National Monuments until July 1961, after 1963 the investigations were funded by the Swiss National Foundation for Scientific Research. Guillemín died before his investigations could be completed and his full report published. His field notes were finally published in 2003.\nIn 1960 the ruins of Iximche were declared a National Monument under governmental decree 1360 of the Congress of the Republic of Guatemala, published in May 1963. In 1980, during the Guatemalan Civil War, the ruins were chosen as a meeting place between Maya leaders and the guerillas, as a result of which the guerillas stated explicitly that they would defend indigenous rights in the so-called \"Declaration of Iximche\". In 1989 an important Maya ceremony was carried out at the site in order to reestablish the ruins as a sacred place for indigenous ceremonies.\n\nUnited States President Bush visited the site on March 12, 2007. Local Maya priests said that they would be conducting purifying rites after his visit to cleanse the area of \"bad spirits\" brought by the president, who they said persecuted their \"migrant brothers\" in the United States. \"We reject this portrayal of our people as a tourist attraction,\" a spokesman, Morales Toj, said.\n\nFrom 26–30 March 2007 Iximche was the site of the III Continental Summit of Indigenous Peoples and Nationalities of Abya Yala. The meeting's closing \"Declaration of Iximche\" committed delegates to a struggle for social justice and against \"neoliberalism and other forms of oppression.\"\nThe majority of visitors to Iximche are indigenous Maya, at the weekend the site attracts about 250 visitors per day. Comparatively few tourists visit the ruins and the majority that do are Guatemalan nationals. Modern \"aj q'ijab\"' (Maya priests often referred to as \"daykeepers\" in English) arrive as pilgrims at Iximche from throughout the Guatemalan Highlands.\n\nTourist facilities at the site include visitor parking, a small museum, a picnic area and a football field. The museum is open on a daily basis and displays a number of artefacts recovered from the ruins.\n\nThe site was largely preserved by the Spanish due to their alliance with the Kaqchikel against the K'iche'. The site’s central core is flanked by deep ravines and is separated from the main residential area by a defensive ditch. The city developed very quickly and within 50 years of its foundation it had reached its maximum extent. This explosive population growth at the city caused the residential area to spill over into the edges of the ravines themselves. The site center consists of four large and two small plazas, each of which contained at least two temples. Along with elite palaces, there are two ballcourts, the larger of which is long and had zoomorphic markers. The plazas are named A, B, C, D, E and F, running from northwest (A) to southeast (F). The ceremonial centre of the city was separated from the residential areas by a wall.\n\nToday the ruins are accessed via the modern town of Tecpán Guatemala, which replaced Iximche when it was destroyed. The modern entrance to the site is on the northern side of the ruins and includes visitor parking, a small museum, a picnic area and a football field, as well as the custodian's house. In an area of woodland to the south of the central portion of the ruins is a modern ceremonial area used by the modern Kaqchikel to carry out their rituals. This ceremonial area is linked to the ruins by a footpath and includes six concrete altars arranged around an unexcavated building. Flowers, food and drink are placed on these altars as sacrifices. The museum displays a number of pieces from the site, including sculptures and ceramics.\n\nPlazas A and B are thought to have comprised a single complex belonging to the Sotz'il clan and included the palace of the \"Ahpo Sotz'il\". Plaza A possesses a ballcourt, two temples and ten palace structures, five of which are interconnecting.\nPlaza C was separated from Plazas A and B by a wall and was the palace complex of the \"Ahpo Xahil\", the junior co-ruler. Plaza C also had two temples facing each other across the plaza. The Xahil ballcourt was on the southwest side of Plaza C and the palace proper of the \"Ahpo Xahil\" was on the southeast side of the plaza. The Xahil Palace was built with an east-west alignment with the entry courtyard on the western side of the palace and had a central altar. The main palace was entered from the eastern side of the entry courtyard. The rooms and courtyards of the Xahil Palace contained a great deal of domestic artefacts. The Xahil Palace was destroyed by a major fire that resulted in the collapse of the adobe walls and it may be that this was the complex where Pedro de Alvarado was lodged with his Spanish soldiers. It would also be the same building that Spanish deserters burned in 1526. The collapse of the building preserved the domestic contents of the palace for archaeologists, unlike the palace of the \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" where comparatively few artefacts were recovered.\n\nPlaza D has not been excavated although it was cleared and mapped by archaeologists. It is a large plaza surrounded by fairly high mounds although it does not appear to have had the large east and west pyramids present on the other main plazas. It had a palace on the south side with three interior courtyards, the westernmost of which had a cross-shaped altar. The palace was smaller than those of the \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" and the \"Ahpo Xahil\" and is believed to have been the palace of the \"Ahuchan\".\n\nPlazas E and F are to the east of Plaza D and also included palace buildings. These plazas were not mapped by Guillemín and remain covered by trees. The two plazas formed a single complex, believed to have been that of the \"K'alel Achi\".\n\nThe defensive ditch running across the promontory was originally deep. It was largely filled in soon after the Conquest in order to render the city less defensible. In the middle of the 19th century the defensive ditch was measured as deep, in the 1960s it was still visible on the ground although it is now almost totally filled in.\n\nCeramic finds at the site include frequent finds of incense-burners with handles and molded decoration. The most common domestic ceramics are of a micaceous ware and include ceramic comals (a type of griddle). Imported ceramics include Chinautla Polychrome and White-on-red, they are reasonably common at the site. Brown bowls are of a type also found in Zaculeu and Mixco Viejo, both of which also had a Late Postclassic occupation. Three-legged metates (a kind of mortar) were frequently recovered from the excavations and black obsidian blades were found in great quantities. Simple jade jewellery was also found.\n\nHuman sacrifice is evidenced at the site by the altar upon Structure 2, of a type used in heart sacrifice, and by a cylindrical cache of skulls taken from decapitated victims accompanied by obsidian knives. A pentatonic flute crafted from a child's femur was recovered from one of the temples and is also indicative of human sacrifice.\n\nBecause of the very brief nature of the Spanish occupation of the city, very few European artefacts were found. Those few pieces that were found consisted of forged iron crossbow bolts.\n\nOver 160 structures have been mapped at Iximche. The structures were faced with stone blocks that were coated in lime plaster, which in some cases was then painted with Mixtec-Puebla style murals, although few traces of the murals survive today. The Mixtec-Puebla style originated around AD 900 in central Mexico and spread from there throughout Mesoamerica. The superstructures of buildings at Iximche were built from adobe blocks and once supported beam and mortar roofs but none have survived. The platform cores were generally built of rough stones set in a clay matrix. A few of the structures have been restored and the site core is kept clear of overgrowth. Residential structures built on platforms around the ceremonial plazas usually had built-in benches and hearths.\n\nThe Great Palace I (or Gran Palacio I in Spanish) is a large residential complex on the northeast side of Plaza B. The surviving remains consist of a sunken patio and some low house platforms. Excavation revealed three construction phases, the earliest of which dates to the founding of the city by Wuqu-Batz' and Hun-Toh. This phase covered approximately and came to form the core of the palace. The first phase consisted of four long single-roomed residential range structures arranged around a courtyard, which possessed an altar in the middle. The residential units possessed inset benches against the walls and hearths in the middle of the floorspace. The walls were originally built of adobe covered with painted murals. Artefacts recovered from this phase included obsidian knives, comals, metates and domestic ceramics. Fragments of incense burners were recovered close to the altars in the palace. The Palace expanded in all directions around this early core with the addition of new buildings and courtyards. The early courtyard was later divided into several smaller patios. The last phase of construction at the Palace dates to the joint reign of Hun-Iq' and Lajuj Noj, by the end of which the palace covered an area of more than .\n\nOn the southwest of the palace courtyard there were some low platforms, possibly ritual dance platforms, and on the southeast side was a building with benches against three of the walls and hearths at each end. This may have been the room where the \"Ahpo Sotz'il\" held court and received visitors and tribute.\n\nThe Great Palace II (or Gran Palacio II in Spanish) is another large residential complex, it is located on the southeast side of Plaza C. The palace is formed by a large number of small rooms arranged around seven interior courtyards. A large quantity of ceramic remains were recovered from within this palace. The rooms around the northeast courtyard within the Great Palace II may have been the royal apartments of this complex, owing to their position near the central courtyard while at the same time being closed off from it. The ceramics from this area were of exotic origin and elite nature. The royal apartments may also have included the rooms around the north courtyard of the palace.\n\nTemple 2 (also known as Structure 2) is a tiered pyramidal platform on the west side of Plaza A. It has a stairway that climbs the east side of the structure, providing access from the plaza. Structure 2 faces the sunrise on the summer solstice. The structure is the best preserved of the excavated temples. Like many buildings at Iximche it had three construction phases dating, from oldest to newest, from the reigns of Wuqu-Batz', Oxlahuh Tz'i' and Hun-Iq'. The earliest of these phases was located by archaeologists tunnelling into the interior of the structure. It is poorly preserved because the facing stones were stripped in order to be reused. The middle phase is the best preserved of the three phases of construction and consisted of four stepped tiers supporting high talud-tablero style walls consisting of a sloping wall topped by a vertical panel. The temple had recessed corners and a steep stairway climbed to the topmost tier, at the top of the stair was a sacrificial altar measuring wide by deep. The altar was made from stone and stucco and the top was slightly concave, it is of a type used in human sacrifice.\n\nThe temple floor is elevated above the plaza and the temple superstructure, including both the temple walls and the roof, would have added another to the total height of the structure at the time of the Spanish Conquest. The temple shrine had benches built against three sides of the interior and a hearth in the middle. A small rear chamber also had benches, this chamber may have been where the gods of the Sotz'il were kept. A small section of the temple floor had been opened as if to receive a burial but the tomb was never used and was covered over again. The remains of a turtle were excavated from the plaza immediately in front of the temple and may have represented one of the \"bacabs\" (a class of mythical being) that supported the temple. Turtles also played an important part in the Classic Period Maya myth of the rebirth of the Maize God.\n\nThe temple shrine was built on a final platform on top of the fourth tier. The exposed remains of the shrine date to the reign of Oxlahuh-Tz'i'. It had a triple doorway divided by columns and was built from adobe covered with plaster, the columns and walls on eithers side of the doorways were painted with decorations, traces of red, yellow and blue were found by archaeologists, these colours were applied to designs marked out onto a thin cap of clay with a pointed instrument. The quality of the work was very fine and indicated execution by a specialised artist. There were ten painted figures on the front of the building with further murals on the back. The designs consist of two rows of discs on top of a row of vertical stripes with figures painted against the striped background with the discs above them. The painted figures are performing various actions, one of which is tongue piercing, and they probably represent a Kaqchikel ritual in progress. The painted murals are very poorly preserved due to deterioration caused by damp combined with damage caused by tree roots. The style of the paintings is very similar to that of Postclassic Mixtec art. Exposed parts of the middle phase of construction were damaged and the second phase was covered by the final construction phase, which was badly damaged by the stonework being stripped away for building the nearby town of Tecpán.\n\nAt the southwest corner of Temple 2 is a low platform that bore painted murals that had a skull with crossed longbones upon two bands of decoration. This platform may have been an \"itzompan\" or \"skull place\", a Kaqchikel version of the Aztec \"tzompantli\" skull racks. Two skulls bearing evidence of decapitation were found in a cache to the southeast of Temple 2 together with some obsidian blades.\n\nTemple 3 (also known as Structure 3) is a pyramid-temple located on the east side of Plaza A, opposite Temple 2, and is similar in form to that building. The stairway climbs the west (plaza) side of the temple platform. In front of the stairway, at the level of the plaza, is a small rectangular platform. A large amount of ceramic remains were found associated with this building, these were pieces of large cylindrical incense-burners, of which more than twelve were used in the temple. One represented an elderly god emerging from the jaws of a serpent, another two show the same deity in a standing position. They may represent one of the patrion deities of the Kaqchikel, B'elehe-Toh or Hun-Tihax. The incense burners were found exactly where the Kaqchikels had left them when they abandoned Iximche. Some of these incense-burners bore a suspended solar disc with modelled rays. Fragments of an Early Postclassic plumbate ware vessel were recovered scattered around three sides of the temple that were probably the remains of a relic from within the temple itself. There is no evidence of such early occupation at Iximche and may have been plundered from Zaculeu, a city with a long occupational history that was conquered by the K'iche'-Kaqchikel alliance. A sacrificial flint knife was also recovered from Structure 3. Two low platforms stand in front of the temple, they were likely to have been used either as altars or as dance platforms.\n\nStructure 1 (also known as Temple 1) is a pyramid temple facing onto Plaza B. It is the only temple at Iximche to have been completely restored.\n\nStructure 4 is another pyramid-temple base on the west side of Plaza C. It has a low platform at its southeastern corner, where 48 severed heads were excavated immediately to the west. Schele and Mathews have speculated that these may be the heads of the K'iche' kings Tepupul and Itzayul together with other members of the K'iche' court who were captured by the Kaqchikels and decapitated. Most of the skulls were found with associated obsidian blades. Most of the skulls had been individually buried in pits cut into the floor of the plaza, although a few were grouped into small lots.\n\nStructure 5 was a pyramid-temple. Excavation revealed at least two phases of construction and the pyramidal platform had a single stair that divided into two as it approached the summit shrine.\n\nStructure 6 is an unrestored temple-pyramid platform to the southwest of Plaza C.\n\nStructure 7, at the southwest side of Plaza C, is a ballcourt of similar dimensions to Structure 8. It was the ballcourt of the Xahil clan and may have been the older of the two ballcourts. Each end of the ballcourt had a projecting stairway and there was an additional stairway to the southeast. A tennoned head sculpture recovered from Plaza C may originally have been a ballcourt marker from this ballcourt.\nStructure 8 is located at the southwestern side of Plaza A. It is a I-shaped ball-court with a playing area. The end-zones are enclosed and accessed via stairways. The two lateral platforms enclosing the playing area were extended by building onto the outermost side. In Kaqchikel ballcourts were called \"hom\" and were seen as gateways to Xibalba, the underworld. Structure 8 has been excavated and restored. Excavations uncovered two levels of plaster flooring, indicating that the ballcourt had been built during the second of the three main phases of construction at Iximche, dating it to about AD 1500.\n\nStructure 9-sub had two pillars separating three doorways.\n\nStructure 10 had an internal patio with the building surrounding it on three sides.\n\nStructure 13, lying between Plazas A and B, had an internal patio with the structure enclosing it on three sides, much like Structure 10.\n\nStructure 14 is a circular altar in Plaza B measuring across. It is very similar to those used for so-called \"gladiatorial sacrifice\" by the Aztecs and it may have served this purpose. This hypothesis is supported by the presence of a noble burial interred with three companions.\n\nStructure 22 is a range structure on the north side of Plaza A. The bases of pillars survive that once separated five doorways. Structure 22 is one of the best preserved palace platforms at Iximche and had benches set against the inside of three of the walls and hearths set into the floor.\n\nStructure 24 - two crude tennoned zoomorphic heads, possibly jaguar heads, were found near this structure but were probably ballcourt markers from one of the two ballcourts. It is likely that they served as a core onto which stucco modelling was applied.\n\nStructure 27 is located behind Temple 2. Within it was found the noble tomb E-27-A.\n\nStructure 38 is a long platform that completely enclosed the north side of Plaza C. It supported three residential structures, each of which had its own stairway. Domestic ceramics were found associated with these buildings. An incense burner was also found with an effigy of Tlaloc, the central Mexican rain god.\n\nThe skeletal remains of more than 100 individuals have been excavated at Iximche, some of which were very well preserved. Unfortunately the bones became mixed when warehoused near the site after excavation and their original locations are no longer clear. Thirty-six skulls were analysed by archaeologists, of these 25 show evidence of decapitation, a sacrificial practice commonly represented in Maya art from the Classic Period. Thirteen of these sacrifices were male, seven were female and five were of indeterminate gender. Most of the sacrifices were of young adults, ten were aged between 15 and 21 years old and eleven were aged little more than 21 years old, based on skull development. It is likely that these sacrificed individuals were not Kaqchikels but were captives taken from enemy states. Less than 3% of the analysed skulls showed evidence of iron deficiency anemia, a very low percentage compared with remains recovered from Copán and Altar de Sacrificios (64% and 88% respectively). This low percentage indicates that these individuals were not exposed to particular dietary stress and were likely to belong to the elite class. 31% of the skulls had evidence of infection, about half of which were active infections at the time of death, although none were serious. Half of these infections left evidence in the maxillary sinus, this suggests a fairly high level of airborne pathogens in the environment. Tooth enamel analysis was carried out on 19 individuals and revealed hypoplasia in the teeth of 89% of these, indicating a high level of poor health in the first 7 years of childhood.\n\nAll excavated tombs were intrusive burials interred under residential platforms. They were all found in a squatting position without any particular orientation. Many of the remains were found accompanied by a broken obsidian blade. Some burials had other offerings, for example that of a woman accompanied by domestic utensils, some of which were blackened with soot. Two child burials each had a jade bead and the burial of an elderly male was accompanied by pieces of burnt pine and evergreen oak.\n\nBurial E-27-A was a noble tomb in Structure 27, in Plaza A. The remains of three sacrificed adults were piled together face down in a space. Under these sacrifices were the seated remains of another person. This individual wore a gold headband with a jade and turquoise mosaic and a necklace with ten representations of jaguar heads together with forty small gold beads. On each arm he wore a bracelet fashioned from the occipital bone of a human skull and engraved with fine designs that included birds and stars hanging from a Mexican-style celestial band. A finely crafted piece of jade was found near the lower jaw and had probably been originally placed within the mouth of the deceased. There was also a copper nose ornament in the shape of the moon and some jade beads, one of which represented a deity similar to that represented on the incense burners found at Temple 3. The remains dated from the earlier phase of occupation of Iximche and the deceased had died in battle from a blow to the head from a blunt instrument. The burial has been tentatively identified as that of one of two sons of Wuqu-Batz' of the Xahil clan, who died in the Kaqchikel wars of expansion, either Chopena-Tz'i'kin Uka or Chopena-Tohin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33578253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33578253", "title": "Jewish paper cutting", "text": "Jewish paper cutting\n\nJewish paper cutting is a traditional form of Jewish folk art made by cutting figures and sentences in paper or parchment. \nIt is connected with various customs and ceremonies, and associated with holidays and family life. Paper cuts often decorated ketubbot (marriage contracts), Mizrahs, and ornaments for festive occasions. Paper cutting was practiced by Jewish communities in both Eastern Europe and North Africa and the Middle East for centuries and has seen a revival in modern times in Israel and elsewhere.\n\nThe origin of Jewish paper cutting is unclear. Ashkenazi Jews in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries practiced this type of art. However, Jewish paper cuts can be traced to Jewish communities in Syria, Iraq, and North Africa, and the similarity in the cutting techniques (using a knife) between East European Jews and Chinese paper cutters, may indicate that the origin goes back even further. Some contend that Ashkenazi paper-cutting may date to the 14th century, though its popularity reached a zenith in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nThe first mention of Jewish paper cutting can be found in the treatise \"The fight of the pen and the scissors” by a 14th-century rabbi, Shem Tov ben Isaac ben Ardutiel (1290-1369), who describes how he decided to cut letters in paper when his ink became frozen during a harsh winter. To students of Christian Spanish literary history, Rabbi Shem Tov is known as Santob de Carrion de los Condes, the courtly Castilian troubadour who composed the Proverbios morales for Pedro the Cruel. Paper cutting as a folk craft gained popularity in the nineteenth century when paper became a cheap material.\n\nPaper cutting was widespread among the Jews of Poland and Russia in the nineteenth century and the early years of the twentieth century. Jewish paper cuts were also produced in Germany and probably in the Netherlands. Some Italian Jewish parchment ketubot (marriage contracts) from the late 17th century until the nineteenth century were decorated paper cuts as well as some elaborate scrolls of the Book of Esther. Similar paper cuttings from Jewish communities North Africa and the Middle East have some characteristic style differences.\n\nIt was popular among Jews both in eastern and western Europe as well as in Turkey, Morocco, Syria, Bangladesh, Israel, and North America.\n\nIn North Africa and the Middle East paper cuts were called a \"Menorah\", because one or more menorah, always appeared as the central motif. These paper cuts included many inscriptions, mostly on the arms of the candelabras. The paper was mounted on thin, colored metal sheets. Two distinct kinds were produced: a Mizrah and smaller paper cuts used as charms. The motifs are the same as in European Jewish paper cuts but they have a distinctive Eastern style. Also, the hamsa (\"the five-finger hand\"), unknown in Europe, very often appears on these paper cuts.\n\nJewish paper cutting began disappearing in the first half of the twentieth century, mainly because of the rapid assimilation trends and the waning of many traditional practices, and was practiced only by older people who remembered this art form from their youth. Many paper cuts collections that had been preserved were destroyed during World War II and the Holocaust and relatively few remain in public or private collections.\n\nSince the late twentieth century, Jewish paper cuts have again become a popular art form in both Israel and other countries. Paper cutting is again often used to decorate ketubot, wedding invitations, and works of art. To a limited extent, Jewish paper cuts have become more popular in Poland as a result of the Jewish Culture Festival in Kraków, a festival that has been held in Kraków since the 1990s.\n\nBeit Hatefutsot – The Museum of the Jewish People in Tel Aviv, Israel presented a 2009 exhibition called \"The Revival of Jewish Papercuts: Jewish paper cut art\" in October 2009. The exhibit was curated by Prof. Olga Goldberg, Gabriella Rabbi, Rina Biran, the Giza Frenkel Papercut Archive, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Additionally, a National Science Foundation-funded study called “Tradition and Continuity in Jewish Papercuts” was conducted by Prof. Olga Goldberg.\n\nArtist Oren Loloi writes that the art of Jewish papercutting's resurgence is due in large part to the efforts of Polish-Jewish anthropologist and ethnologist Giza Frankel (see below). Frankel's 1983 book, \"The Art of the Jewish Papercut\" (Migzerot neyar: omanut Yehudit amamit), was produced after 50 years of painstaking research. \n\nToday, Jewish papercut art has grown in popularity beyond ritual items to art and expressions of Jewish faith, not only in Israel but worldwide. Loloi contends that the resurgence in papercutting's popularity is in part due to its contemporary near-ubiquity as part of the ketubah (marriage contract), which is a contemporary site of \"hiddur mitzvah\", the Jewish principle of honouring the Divine by beautifying ritual objects. Contemporary papercutting art may also be seen in amulets like hamsas, blessings for the home, mizrahim, and other art pieces, usually as a wall plaque.\n\nIn Israel papercutting was reactivated by Giza Frankel, a Polish-born ethnographer. Frankel's most significant publications on paper cutting are \"Wycinanka żydowska w Polsce\" and \"Art of the Jewishpaper-cut.\" Giza Frankel brought knowledge of Polish Jewish paper cuts with her when she emigrated to Israel in 1950.\n\nAccording to Frankel, the most famous Polish papercutters are and .\n\nMarta Gołąb is both a graphic artist and papercutter. Her papercuts were exhibited in the Jewish Museum (Wien) Skirball Cultural Center, (Los Angeles), in Emanu-El Synagogue (San Francisco), in the Synagogue in Grobzig (Germany) and on the Jewish Culture Festival in Krakow.\n\nMonika Krajewska's interests was focus on symbols related both to Jewish papercut and sepulchral art, according to . She is a member of The Guild of American Papercuters.\n\nYehudit Shadur was a Jewish paper cutting artist.\n\nYehudit Shadur and her husband Joseph Shadur wrote a history of the last three centuries of Jewish paper cutting called \"Traditional Jewish Papercuts: An Inner World of Art and Symbol.\" They won a 1994 Jewish National Book Council prize for this book. In addition to this book, the Shadurs wrote an additional book on Jewish papercuts, the catalog on Yehudit Shadur's 1995 exhibit at the Haaretz Museum in Ramat Aviv, Israel, and several articles on the art of Jewish papercutting.\n\nTsirl Waletzky (née Tsirl Grobla) was considered to be a major contemporary paper cutting artist in American Yiddish culture. Waletzky’s papercuts differed from \"traditional forms in that they are free flowing and less bound to structure and symmetry.\"\n\nKim Phillips is a modern Jewish paper cut artist whose work pushes the limits of interpretation of Jewish texts and themes without reference to traditional symmetrical forms. Her work has been exhibited in Israel and in the United States.\n\nOren Loloi (Papercuts By Oren), is a modern Jewish paper cut artist working in Israel. His work belongs to a new aesthetic that bridges the gap between Jewish tradition and the modern resurgence of paper cutting worldwide. His work mainly focuses on ketubot. He has also been commissioned by synagogues in New York and Virginia for large scale works.\n\nDepending on their purpose, shape and connection with specific religious and non-religious events, paper cuts are of different types.\n\nA Mizrah (hebr. The East) is a plaque hung on the east wall of private houses to show the direction of Jerusalem. A shivis’i (hebr. always) is similar to a mizrah, but it hangs on the east side of a synagogue. Its name is connected with a sentence from the Bible: 'Shivis'i adonai l'negdi tamid' ('I have set the LORD always before me'). Shivis’i in the form of paper cuts rather than some more durable material were only used in poor synagogues.\n\nThere were also various paper cuts made for special, religious celebrations. Shevuoslekh (\"little Shavuots\") and \"royzelekh\" (rosettes) decorated windows for Shavuot. Royzelekh are circle-shaped paper cuts, while Shevuoslekh are rectangular. They were often made by pupils in elementary Jewish religious schools (Cheders). They were sometimes decorated with motifs unconnected to religion, such as soldiers or riders.\n\nFlags for Simchat-Torah were also made by \"cheder\" pupils. Created from colourful paper, each paper cut symbolized one of the twelve tribes of Israel. The other side of the paper showed an image of Torah with moving doors cut in paper. Paper cuts made for Sukkot were formed into lanterns, chains and birds, hung in Sukkahs.\n\nPaper cuts often decorated a plaque with a prayer called Ushpizin, made for Sukkot. Paper cuts were also created for Purim, often containing the Hebrew sentence: ”Mishenekhnas adar marbin b’simcha’ (‘We should rejoice because (the month of) Adar begins') and cut into an image of a bottle and glasses, a symbol of rejoicing.\n\nPapercutting also has connections with other forms of Jewish tradition. For example, Ketubahs (marriage agreements) were sometimes prepared in the form of paper cut, or decorated with paper cutting elements. Also cut into paper, memorial plaques were made to commemorate the names of ancestors’ names and dates of birth and death. Lanterns with papercut walls were placed in synagogues for anniversaries of great men’s death. Amulets like a Hamsa often showed an image of a palm with an eye on it.\n\nPaper cuts traditionally were created with the use of shoemaker’s knife. It is likely that most artists were men, though in later years, schoolgirls (and boys) made little rosettes (called \"royzelekh\" or \"reyzelekh\" in Yiddish) with scissors, to decorate their notebooks or for holiday decorations in the home. The artist first drew the pattern on a paper or parchment, and then cut it. Sometimes, they painted their work in watercolors. Paper cuts were usually glued to a contrasting background in a specific way, to bring the cut paper into relief. Hebrew sentences were important element of the composition. The words were either cut or drawn on paper. Elements of micrography, another traditional type of Jewish folk art, can be seen in these blocks of text created with the artist's knife. Due to Judaism's aniconism, it is rare to see a paper-cut from this period that depicts the human figure. Exceptions are Sephardic Ketubot depicting the bride and bridegroom.\n\nTraditionally, paper cuts made by Sephardic and Ashkenazi Jews differed from each other. Ashkenazi papercuts were rich, highly detailed, and colourful. In this style, artists tried to fill the free space with as many elements as is possible. By contrast, the Sephardic compositions were more minimalist, including motifs such as the menorah, columns, arabesques and lanterns. Modern Jewish paper cut art is done in many styles and is not limited to the aforementioned symbols and motifs. They may be single-layered or multi-layered.\n\nEvery element of Jewish paper cut has its own symbolism. Some are typical of general Jewish culture, others are peculiar to the art of paper cutting. The most important symbols are placed along the axis of symmetry.\n\nThe main symbols are usually a Torah or a Menorah:\n\nA range of animals are depicted in paper cuts:\n\nPapercut flora is usually connected with the biblical Tree of Life, with some of the plants having their specific symbolism. For example, vine was associated with the land of Israel and with fertility, pomegranates symbolized fertility, etc.\n\nOthers symbols were connected both with tradition and with everyday life:\n\nThe images are created by cutting a design into a folded piece of paper. When the paper is unfolded, the symmetrical design is revealed. The paper can be cut using either scissors or a craft knife.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42683064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42683064", "title": "Klaer Lightende Spiegel der Verfkonst", "text": "Klaer Lightende Spiegel der Verfkonst\n\nThe Klaer Lightende Spiegel der Verfkonst (literally: \"clearly lighting mirror of the painting art\") is a manuscript with over 700 pages of color swatches, produced in 1692 by a Dutch author from Delft known only as A. Boogert. The book is arranged according to the Aristotelian system rather than the spectrum, which had recently been described by Newton. Only one copy of the manual is known, and it is completely handwritten and hand-painted. It is kept in the Bibliothèque Méjanes in Aix-en-Provence. The book has been digitised and made available on E-Corpus.\n\n"}
{"id": "3985400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3985400", "title": "Kot Diji", "text": "Kot Diji\n\nThe ancient site at Kot Diji () was the forerunner of the Indus Civilization. The occupation of this site is attested already at 3300 BCE. The remains consist of two parts; the citadel area on high ground (about 12 m), and outer area. The Pakistan Department of Archaeology excavated at Kot Diji in 1955 and 1957.\n\nLocated about 24 kilometers south of Khairpur in the province of Sindh, Pakistan, it is on the east bank of the Indus opposite Mohenjo-daro.\n\nThe site is situated at the foot of the Rohri Hills where a fort (Kot Diji Fort) was built around 1790 by the Talpur dynasty ruler of Upper Sindh, Mir Suhrab, who reigned from 1783 to 1830 AD. This fort built on the ridge of a steep narrow hill is well-preserved.\n\nThe development of these farming communities in different parts of Baluchistan and Lower Sind ultimately led to urbanization. The earliest fortified town to date is found at Rehman Dheri, dated 4000 BCE in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa close to River Zhob Valley. Other fortified towns found to date are at Amri (3600–3300 BCE) and Kot Diji in Sindh and at Kalibangan (3000 BCE), India at the Hakra River.\n\nThe site covers 2.6 ha. The earliest occupation of this site is termed 'Kot Dijian', which is pre-Harappan, or early formative Harappan.\n\nAt the earliest layer, Kot Diji I (2605 BC), copper and bronze were not used. The houses and fortifications were made from unbaked mud-bricks. Lithic material, such as leaf-shaped chert arrowheads, shows parallels with Mundigak layers II-IV. The pottery seems to anticipate Harappan Ware. Later, bronze was used, but only for personal ornaments. Also, use of the potters wheel was already in evidence.\n\nThe Early Harappan phase construction consists of two clearly defined areas. There is a citadel on high ground for the elites separated by a defensive wall with bastions at regular intervals. This area measures about 500 ft x 350 ft. The Outer area, or the city proper, consisted of houses of mud bricks on stone foundations. \n\nPottery found from this site has designs with horizontal and wavy lines, or loops and simple triangular patterns. Other objects found are pots, pans, storage jars, toy carts, balls, bangles, beads, terracotta figurines of mother goddess and animals, bronze arrowheads, and well-fashioned stone implements. A particularly interesting find at Kot Diji is a toy cart, which shows that the potter’s wheel permitted the use of wheels for bullock carts.\n\nGlazed steatite beads were produced. There was a clear transition from the earlier Ravi pottery to what is commonly referred to as Kot Diji pottery. Red slip and black painted designs replaced polychrome decorations of the Ravi Phase. Then, there was a gradual transformation into what is commonly referred to as Harappa Phase pottery.\n\nEarly Indus script may have appeared at Kot Diji on pottery and on a sealing. The use of inscribed seals and the standardization of weights may have occurred during the Kot Diji period.\n\nLate Kot-Diji type pots were found as far as Burzahom in Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nThere are obvious signs of massive burning of over the entire site, including both the lower habitation area and the high mound (the fortified town), which were also observed at other Early Harappan sites: Period III at Gumla, Period II at Amri, Period ID at Naushero. Signs of cleavage were observed at Early Harappan phase Period I at Kalibangan. The cause of the disruptions and/or abandonment of these sites toward the end of the Early Harappan phase is still unexplained.\n\nAccording to legends, the wall existed during Umayyad rule and later under the Abbasid rule. The Soomro tribe inhabited the fort and later the Samma tribe positioned large infantry formations inside the fort.\n\nThe Mughal Emirs armed the walls of the fort with cannons and muskets. They were the first to renovate the entire structure. The Kalhora tribe later gained control of the fort, and finally the Talpurs saw the fort as a strategic asset especially during the reign of Mir Fatih Ali Khan Talpur, until they were defeated and overthrown by the British Empire, in 1843 AD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4578924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578924", "title": "Kuno Meyer", "text": "Kuno Meyer\n\nKuno Meyer (20 December 1858 – 11 October 1919) was a German scholar, distinguished in the field of Celtic philology and literature. His pro-German stance at the start of World War I in the United States was a source of controversy. His brother was the distinguished classical scholar, Eduard Meyer.\n\nMeyer was considered first and foremost a lexicographer among Celtic scholars but is known by the general public in Ireland rather as the man who introduced them to \"Selections from Ancient Irish Poetry\" (1911).\n\nHe founded and edited four journals devoted to Celtic Studies, published numerous texts and translations of Old and Middle Irish romances and sagas, and wrote prolifically, his topics ranging to name origins and ancient law.\n\nBorn in Hamburg, he studied there at the Gelehrtenschule of the Johanneum. He spent two years in Edinburgh, Scotland, as a teenager (1874–1876) learning English.\n\nFrom 1879, he attended the University of Leipzig, where he was taught Celtic scholarship by Ernst Windisch. He received his doctorate for his thesis \"Eine irische Version der Alexandersage\", an Irish version of the Alexander Romance, in 1884.\n\nHe then took up the post of lecturer in Teutonic languages at the new University College, Liverpool, the precursor of the University of Liverpool, which was established three years earlier.\n\nHe continued to publish on Old Irish and more general topics on the Celtic languages , as well as producing textbooks for German. In 1896, he founded and edited jointly with , the prestigious \"Zeitschrift für celtische Philologie\". He also cofounded \"Archiv für celtische Lexicographie\" in 1898 with Whitley Stokes, producing 3 volumes from 1900 to 1907.\n\nIn 1903, Meyer founded the School of Irish Learning in Dublin, and the next year created its journal \"Ériu\" of which he was the editor. Also in 1904, he became Todd Professor in the Celtic Languages at the Royal Irish Academy. In October 1911, he followed Heinrich Zimmer as Professor of Celtic Philology at Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin; the following year, a volume of \"Miscellany\" was presented to him by pupils and friends in honour of his election, and he was made a freeman of both Dublin and Cork.\n\nAt the outbreak of the First World War, Meyer left Europe for the United States of America, where he lectured at Columbia University, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and elsewhere. A pro-German speech he gave in December 1914 to Clan na Gael on Long Island caused outrage in Britain and some factions among the Irish, and as a result, he was removed from the roll of freemen in Dublin and Cork and from his Honorary Professorship of Celtic at Liverpool. He also resigned as Director of the School of Irish Learning and editor of \"Ériu\".\n\nHarvard University also had extended an invitation to Meyer to lecture on campus, but it subsequently \"disinvited\" him on in the fall of 1914 on account of Meyer's propagandist activity.\n\nMeyer nevertheless accepted candidacy for the post of exchange professor at Harvard, at the recommendation of German professors there. However, when the April 1915 issue of \"The Harvard Advocate\" awarded first prize to an anti-German satirical poem \"Gott mit Uns\" written by an undergraduate, Meyer sent the university (and the press) a letter of protest, rebuking the faculty members who served as judges for failure to exercise neutrality. Meyer also declined his candidacy from the exchange professorship in the letter. In a reply, President Abbott Lawrence Lowell said, in explaining Harvard's policy, that freedom of speech includes pro-German and pro-Allied voices alike.\n\nHe was injured in a railway collision in 1915 and met 27-year-old Florence Lewis while he was recovering in a California hospital. They married shortly afterwards. Florence went to Germany in 1916, Meyer in 1917. In 1919 Florence and her daughter went to Switzerland. He died in Leipzig.\n\nPosthumously, in 1920, Meyer's name was restored, both by Dublin and Cork, in their Rolls of Honorary Freemen. The restoration happened on 19 April 1920 in Dublin, where Sinn Féin had won control of the City Council three months before, rescinding the decision taken in 1915 by the Irish Parliamentary Party.\n\nIn 1965, the Gaelic League and the \"Irish Press\" petitioned the restoration as they were unaware that it had already occurred.\n\nMeyer was regranted the Freedom of the City of Cork, as follows: \"Re-elected 14th May, 1920, and order of Council of the 8th January, 1915, expunging his name from the roll rescinded.\"\n\nAlso in 1920, Meyer was described by his acquaintance Douglas Hyde, Celtic philologist and later president of the Republic of Ireland, as \"one of the most lovable men who ever existed, and himself undoubtedly in love with Ireland\". Hyde credited him with advancing the goals of the Gaelic League when the question arose whether to allow the teaching of the Irish language in the Intermediate Education of Ireland.\nW. T. Cosgrave, later president of the Irish Free State, as a Dublin councilman, had strenuously opposed removal of Meyer's name from Dublin's Freemen roll in the first place. Cosgrave wrote in a letter that Meyer was recognized as \"the greatest Celtic authority since the death of Whitley Stokes\" and that he has \"done more for Irish scholarship and Irish national glory than any other living man\".\n\nIn 2004, on the centenary of the publication of \"Ériu\", Proinsias Mac Cana described Kuno Meyer as \"great\" scholar, in \"brilliant\" partnership with John Strachan as the first editors of \"Ériu\", his predecessors in that position. Meyer is among those credited with playing a crucial role in fostering native Irish Celtists in the initial phases of \"Ériu\" and the School of Irish Learning, and when the editorship over \"Ériu\" later passed to the succeeding generation of Irish scholars, tantamount to the fulfillment of the \"primary intention of Meyer and his associates\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849362", "title": "Language game (philosophy)", "text": "Language game (philosophy)\n\nA language-game () is a philosophical concept developed by Ludwig Wittgenstein, referring to simple examples of language use and the actions into which the language is woven.\n\nIn his work, \"Philosophical Investigations\", Ludwig Wittgenstein regularly referred to the concept of language-games. Wittgenstein rejected the idea that language is somehow separate and corresponding to reality, and he argued that concepts do not need clarity for meaning. Wittgenstein used the term \"language-game\" to designate forms of language simpler than the entirety of a language itself, \"consisting of language and the actions into which it is woven\" (PI 7) and connected by family resemblance (\"Familienähnlichkeit\"). The concept was intended \"to bring into prominence the fact that the speaking of language is part of an activity, or a form of life,\" (PI 23) which gives language its meaning.\n\nThe term 'language-game' is used to refer to:\n\nThese meanings are not separated from each other by sharp boundaries, but blend into one another (as suggested by the idea of family resemblance). The concept is based on the following analogy: The rules of language are analogous to the rules of games; thus saying something in a language is analogous to making a move in a game. The analogy between a language and a game demonstrates that words have meaning depending on the uses made of them in the various and multiform activities of human life. (The concept is not meant to suggest that there is anything trivial about language, or that language is \"just a game\".)\n\nThe classic example of a language-game is the so-called \"builder's language\" introduced in §2 of the \"Philosophical Investigations\":\nLater \"this\" and \"there\" are added (with functions analogous to the function these words have in natural language), and \"a, b, c, d\" as numerals. An example of its use: builder A says \"d — slab — there\" and points, and builder B counts four slabs, \"a, b, c, d...\" and moves them to the place pointed to by A. The builder's language is an activity into which is woven something we would recognize as language, but in a simpler form. This language-game resembles the simple forms of language taught to children, and Wittgenstein asks that we conceive of it as \"a complete primitive language\" for a tribe of builders.\n\nJean-François Lyotard explicitly drew upon Wittgenstein's concept of language-games in developing his own notion of metanarratives in \"The Postmodern Condition\". However, Wittgenstein's concept is, from its inception, of a plurality of language games—their plurality is not a feature solely of contemporary discourse. Because Lyotard's discussion is primarily applied in the contexts of authority, power, and legitimation, where Wittgenstein's is broad, and concerned to mark distinctions between a wide range of activities in which language users engage. We can deduce that Lyotard uses the \"language-gaminess\", which Wittgenstein points out, to direct his own analysis and attention to the ways in which certain language-games, when in service to ideals, tend to form ideas about the world in their navigation in addition to the larger language-gameplay, whereby certain smaller language-games are more likely to play out in conglomerations that reinforce and comment upon the \"opinion\" side of relationships that are between propositions about the world while also at the risk of denying important, contrary, or non-similar \"judgments\" if they clash with typical gameplay. In this way, Lyotard implies that algorithms of viable strategies of gameplay, while certainly extant, are seldom used consistently—eventually leading to societal disruption and the realignment of basic language-games with common actions and thoughts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52648343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52648343", "title": "Latinos Beyond Reel", "text": "Latinos Beyond Reel\n\nLatinos Beyond Reel is a documentary which was released on February 23, 2013. Latinos Beyond Reel taps into the harsh reality of Latino representation in the media industry. Latinos Beyond Reel was directed by Miguel Picker and Chyng-Feng Sun. \"Latinos Beyond Reel\" is under The Media Education Foundation (MEF). The Media Education Foundation (MEF) produced and distributed the film. The film talks about the underrepresentation and marginalization of Latinos in the U.S media. The film also talks about the effects the false representation of Latinos in the media industry has on youth. Latinos Beyond Reel captures the most unfortunate portrayal of Latinos in the media ranging from off-screen roles to animated characters in film and television.\n\nDuring the film, the audience dives deep into the minds of children, who view every day, the poor representation of Latinos in the media. The children in the film claim that they have never seen a Hispanic superhero in the media and that all of the protagonists are white. One boy in the film refers to all of the protagonists portrayed in the media as \"American\". The boy calling all of the protagonists American shows the detachment that Latinos, and many other races or demographics, feel from the society and culture in America.\n\nThe film digs deep into a look at media in America’s society from the perspective of Latinos. The film talks about how the Latino actors and actress' have only marginalized roles in the media such as maids, over-sexualized women, and thieves. Latinos Beyond Reel discusses how Latino men are always cast as the antagonists in films and television shows, and women often play the role of a maid. One actress Lube Ontiveros, who was discussed in the film, has been quoted in previous articles saying she has played the role of a maid more than 150 times. Lube Ontivernos' experience as playing a maid more than 150 times puts the Latino underrepresentation into perspective.\n\nAt one point in the film, actor Yancey Arias talks about how what is written specifically in the script will stay in the film no matter how much an actor wants to stray away from the script. When Yancey Arias talks about how what is in the script will be on the screen, he is talking about himself going away from the stereotypes the writers and directors portray of him. Yancey Arias talks about how he tries to change his acting for a role so he, as a Latino, doesn't seem like as much of an antagonist as he is made out to be. Still, all of the things Yancey Arias would do to try and stay away from Latino stereotypes would not be added into the film because someone behind the scenes would want to keep the Latino portrayal as a negatively portrayed character.\n\nThe documentary also explores some of the recent positive shows and the impacts they are having on society. Some prime examples of sitcoms that portray Latinos in a positive light are Dora the Explorer, George Lopez, and Ugly Betty. It is also said that some actress still plays the overhyped Latino stereotypical role. Sofia Vergara of Modern Family is one of the most well-known Hispanic actors of all time and still, plays that Latino stereotype. Since so many people view Sofia Vergara as a staple of Latino culture when she plays the stereotypes, people believe they are true. The documentary gets at the fact that Latino roles are marginalized on and off camera.\n\nLatinos Beyond Reel uses key statistics to explain why Latinos should be more of a target market in consumerism. Latinos make up a large portion of the population yet, makes up a small portion of the advertising market. The explanation of how much Latinos consume and spend is also discussed in this documentary.\n\nInterviews in the documentary Latinos Beyond Reel include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56356402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56356402", "title": "List of Japanese Grammy Award winners and nominees", "text": "List of Japanese Grammy Award winners and nominees\n\nThe following is a list of Grammy Awards winners and nominees from Japan:\n"}
{"id": "603318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603318", "title": "Menominee language", "text": "Menominee language\n\nMenominee (also spelled Menomini) is an Algonquian language spoken by the historic Menominee people of what is now northern Wisconsin in the United States. The federally recognized tribe has been working to encourage revival of use of the language by intensive classes locally and partnerships with universities. Most of the fluent speakers are elderly. Many of the people use English as their first language.\n\nThe name of the tribe, and the language, \"Oma͞eqnomenew\", comes from the word for wild rice. The tribe has gathered and cultivated this native food as a staple for millennia. The Anishinaabe (Ojibwa), their neighbors to the north who also speak an Algonquian language, also use this term for them.\n\nThe main characteristics of Menominee, as compared to other Algonquian languages, are its extensive use of the low front vowel , its rich negation morphology, and its lexicon. Some scholars (notably Bloomfield and Sapir) have classified it as a Central Algonquian language based on its phonology.\n\nFor good sources of information on both the Menominee and their language, some valuable resources include Leonard Bloomfield's 1928 bilingual text collection, his 1962 grammar (a landmark in its own right), and Skinner's earlier anthropological work.\n\nMenominee is a highly endangered language, with only a handful of fluent speakers left. According to a 1997 report by the Menominee Historic Preservation Office, 39 people spoke Menominee as their first language, all of whom were elderly; 26 spoke it as their second language; and 65 others had learned some of it for the purpose of understanding the language and/or teaching it to others.\n\nThe Menominee Language & Culture Commission has been established by the Menominee Nation to promote the continued use of the language. In the 21st century, residents of the Menominee reservation at Keshena have held intensive classes for learners of all ages, and have worked with linguists from the University of Wisconsin-Madison to document the language and to develop curriculum and learning materials.\n\nIn 1977, Menominee High School, founded when \"the Indians of the Menominee Reservation separated from the Shawano-Gresham School District to open their own district,\" began to offer Menominee language, drumming, and tribal dance in addition to its academic program.\n\nClasses in the Menominee language are available locally at the pre-school, high-school, and adult levels, and at the College of Menominee Nation and University of Wisconsin Green Bay.\n\nIn 2012, the Catholic Diocese of Green Bay issued an apology to \"a seventh-grader who was punished after using her native Menominee language in the classroom\" in Shawano, Wisconsin.\n\nAs of 2013, there are \"six or seven people ... able to be conversational in the language,\" according to an article on the Menominee Place Names Map, a collaborative project at the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point.\n\nBelow are the basic orthography and phonemes (represented in IPA) of Menominee.\n\n\nVowels are slightly nasalized before or after or .\n\n\nConsonants, including nasals, are palatalized before front vowels and labialized before back vowels.\n\nMenominee does not make contrasts between voiced and voiceless stops and voicing from a following vowel may set in before the opening is complete.\n\nSyllable structure in Menominee is typically VC(C) or C(C)VC(C); syllables do not end in vowels. Any consonant can begin or end a syllable except \"h\" and \"q\". The only clusters which can occur at the end of a syllable are \"qc\" and \"qs\". The only cluster which can begin a syllable is \"kw\".\n\nPrimary stress occurs on every long vowel or diphthong that is in the next-to-last syllable of a word. Most compounds and inflected forms are treated as single words in assigning stress. Rhetorical stress comes on the last syllable.\n\nIn an interrogative sentence which uses a question word, there is a rising and then falling of pitch near the beginning and a drop at the end. In yes-no questions, there is a sharp rise in pitch at the end of the sentence. The modulations of pitch for expressing exclamations, quotations, etc. is generally much more pronounced in Menominee than in English.\n\nBloomfield states there are five overarching categories in Menominee: noun, pronoun, negator, verb, and particle. Nouns, pronouns, negators, and verbs all take inflection whereas particles do not carry any morphology. \n\nAgreement morphology in Menominee can be polysemous, i.e. animacy and number (nouns), are indicated within the same affix.\n\nAll nouns are split into two categories and are inflected for animacy and are classified as either animate or inanimate. Animacy in Menominee is a grammatical construct for noun classification and not a reflection of the noun's status as \"living\" or \"non-living.\" Therefore, some semantically inherently inanimate objects are grammatically animate. \n\nAll nouns are required to be inflected if they are plural. Nouns which are singular are unmarked. \n\nMenominee has four grammatical persons: first, second, third, and indefinite. \n\nNoun classes are split based on grammatical gender into two categories: animate and inanimate. Additionally, all nouns must be marked for plurality. Plurality agreement are suffixes that attach to noun stems. Singular forms are unmarked (represented by zero morpheme \"ø\") and plural has two forms, as shown in the table below. \n\nThese suffixes are attached directly to noun stems or to possessed themes. Examples below show singular and plural inflections of both animate and inanimate nouns: \nThere are four personal prefixes used to modify nouns and in personal pronouns:\n\n\nCertain nouns occur only in possessed forms, typically referring to body parts or relatives, such as \"okiːqsemaw\", \"son\"; \"kese:t\", \"your (s.) foot\"; \"mese:t\", \"someone's foot\". These affixes are used to indicate possession (e.g. \"neme:h\" \"my older sister\"; \"neta:qsɛnem\", \"my stone\"). They are also used in the inflection of verbs to indicate the actor.\n\nThe personal pronouns formed by these prefixes are as follows:\nNouns and nearly all pronouns are inflected for singular and plural. Some nouns occur only as singulars, typically denoting liquids or other uncountable substances (e.g. \"kahpeːh\", coffee). The singular is often used for a representative meaning, e.g. \"ɛːsespemaːteset omɛːqnomeneːw\", \"the way the Menomini lives\".\n\nNouns can also be inflected for locality:\n\n\"weːkewam\", \"house\"\n\n\"weːkewameh\", \"in a house\"\n\n\"yoːm\", \"this\"\n\n\"yoːs\", \"right here\"\n\nDiminutives can be formed from any noun by suffixing -æshs\n\nAgent nouns (i.e., nouns that mean one who does the action of the verb, such as \"worker\" from \"work\", \"talker\" from \"talk\", in English) are homonymous with the third person inflected verb. So,\n\n\"anohkiːw\", \"he works\" or \"worker\"\n\n\"moːhkotaːqsow\", \"he whittles\" or \"carpenter\"\n\nMenominee displays inflectional reference. Nouns, verbs, and objects are inflected to agree in gender, person, and number of their possessor, actor, or transitive verb, respectively.\n\nIntransitive verbs typically occur in two forms: one for animate actors, the other for inanimate actors:\n\"paːpɛhcen\", \"he falls\"\n\"paːpɛhnɛn\", \"it falls\"\n\nTransitive verbs can be used with either animate or inanimate actors. Transitive verbs contain inflectional reference both to their subject and to the object. One form of the verb exists for animate objects and another for inanimate objects:\n\"koqnɛw\", \"he fears him\"\n\"koqtam\", \"he fears it\"\n\nImpersonal verbs occur with no identifiable actor and in the singular inflection:\n\"kɛqsiw\", \"it is cold\"\n\"kemeːwan\", \"it is raining\"\n\nThe negator \"kan\" typically precedes the verb: \"kan kemeːwanon\", \"it is not raining\". The negator also inflects for certain elements of modal inflection: \"kasaq kemeːwanon\", \"why, it isn't raining anymore!\" It can be used alone to answer a yes-no question. The particle \"poːn\" is used to negate imperatives: \"poːn kasɛːhkehseh\", \"don't be too late\".\n\nBloomfield distinguishes five modes of the verb in Menominee, which are reflected in the verb, negator, personal and demonstrative pronouns, and auxiliary verbs:\n\nThe indicative makes statements. In the first-person plural, it is used as a hortatory (first person plural imperative: \"kenawmaːciaq\", \"let's set out\"\n\n\nMenominee is an Algonquian language, part of the larger family of Algic languages. Goddard (1996) and Mithun (1999) classify it with the Central and Plains Algonquian languages, along with languages like Blackfoot, Arapaho, Cheyenne, Cree-Montagnais, and Eastern Great Lakes languages like Ojibwe.\n\nIn his more controversial classification of American Indian languages, Joseph Greenberg places the Algic family within a family which he calls Almosan. The classification was first proposed by Edward Sapir in 1929. It groups Algic with other language families including Kutenai, otherwise thought to be an isolate, and Mosan, which includes Wakashan, Chimakuan, and Salishan. The Mosan family proposal is currently considered to be unfounded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43010095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43010095", "title": "Natana J. DeLong-Bas", "text": "Natana J. DeLong-Bas\n\nNatana J. DeLong-Bas is an American scholar and the author of a number of books on Islam, as well as \"numerous book chapters and encyclopedia articles\" on the subject of \"Saudi Arabia, Wahhabism, Islamic thought and history, Islam and politics, and contemporary jihadism\".\n\nDeLong-Bas is assistant professor at the Boston College theology department. She also serves in a number of editorial, advisory and consulting roles. Previously DeLong-Bas has taught at Brandeis University and worked as a consultant for the RAND Corporation.\n\nDeLong-Bas has expressed the view that there is too much negativity towards Wahhabism in the West, and in her writings has argued that Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab was \"not the godfather of contemporary terrorist movements\", but \n\"a voice of reform, reflecting mainstream eighteenth-century Islamic thought. His vision of Islamic society was based upon monotheism in which Muslims, Christians, and Jews were to enjoy peaceful co-existence and cooperative commercial treaty relations.\"\n\nDeLong-Bas believes that extremism in Saudi Arabia \"does not stem from\" Islam, but from issues such as oppression of the Palestinian people, \"Iraq, and the American government's tying [the hands of] the U.N. [and preventing it] from adopting any resolution against Israel, have definitely added to the Muslim youth's state of frustration.\"\n\nIn an December 21, 2006 interview in the London daily \"Asharq Al-Awsat\", DeLong-Bas was quoted as stating that she did \"...not find any evidence that would make me agree that Osama bin Laden was behind the Attack on the Twin Towers\". A month later in \"The Justice\"—the student newspaper of Brandeis University (where she was teaching at the time) -- she disputed the quote, stating: \"Of course he did. He's the CEO of Al-Qaeda and the leader of their political agenda. All I claimed was that he didn't have anything to do with the logistics or the planning of the attacks themselves.\"\n\nDeLong-Bas's book \"\" was published in 2004 by Oxford University Press. It is based \"on a close study of the 14 volumes\" of collected works of Wahhabism's founder, Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab and has been called \"the first extensive explication of the theology\" of Wahhabism. It is divided into sections: a brief religious biography and history of Ibn Abd al-Wahhab, theology, Islamic law, women and Wahhabism, jihad and the evolution of Wahhabism.\n\n\"Wahhabi Islam: From Revival and Reform to Global Jihad\" has been praised as a \"monumental work ... lucid and carefully documented\", \"often fascinating\", and presenting \"a nuanced discussion of Wahhab's Quranic interpretation\", but also criticized as a \"piece of scholarly trash\" and of \"markedly inferior quality\", and guilty of \"special pleading\".\n\nIt has received positive reviews from David E. Long in \"Middle East Journal\" (a \"monumental work ... a lucid and carefully documented assessment of Wahhabism.\"), Sara Powell in \"Washington Report on Middle East Affairs\" (\"...a well-regarded, logically constructed, and considered --if perhaps somewhat sympathetic--analysis of Abd al-Wahhab's beliefs\"), \"History\" magazine (\"a ground-breaking study ... both controversial and informative\").\n\nBut others have questioned the book and DeLong-Bas's views on Wahhabism. Author Stephen Suleyman Schwartz has called her an \"apologist\", criticizing her for among other things, receiving financial support from Saudi Arabia; not including as a source the correspondence of ibn Abd al-Wahhab, \"which critics of Wahhabism and other Saudis consider key to understanding him\"; and failing to mention the religious and/or governmental background of some Saudi Arabians mentioned in her acknowledgments.>\n\nJournalist and author Michael J. Ybarra, called the book \"often fascinating\", and providing \"a nuanced discussion of Wahhab's Quranic interpretation\", but also complained that she \"seems to bend over backward to give Wahhab the benefit of the doubt while dismissing his critics as biased.\" He also notes that DeLong-Bas \"doesn't say ... where on earth\" the tolerant form of Wahhabism described by her \"ever existed\", and that \"the voice of Wahhab himself is largely absent from this book\" because the author rarely quotes him.\n\nKhaled Abou El Fadl, professor of law at University of California, Los Angeles who writes frequently on Islamic jurisprudence, expressed sorrow that Oxford University Press had published the book, stating \"This doesn't qualify as scholarship -- it falls within the general phenomenon of Saudi apologetics.\"\n\nMichael Sells, professor at the University of Chicago wrote that DeLong-Bas never challenges the propriety of Abd al-Wahhab’s claim to authority to distinguish believers from unbelievers and to impose the most severe sanctions on those he disagrees with. Simon Ross Valentine suggested that the image of Wahhabism presented by Delong-Bas is a \"rewriting of history that flies in the face of historical fact\".\n\n"}
{"id": "57932095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57932095", "title": "Neptune (Pajou)", "text": "Neptune (Pajou)\n\nNeptune, Neptune Calming the Waves or Irritated Neptune is a 1767 marble sculpture of Neptune by the French artist Augustin Pajou, now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. He produced a terracotta modello for the work.\n\n"}
{"id": "28653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28653", "title": "Outline of sculpture", "text": "Outline of sculpture\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to sculpture:\n\nA sculpture – human-made three-dimensional art object.\n\nSculpture or sculpting – activity of creating sculptures. A person who creates sculptures is called a \"sculptor\".\n\nSculpture can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of sculpture\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9634535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9634535", "title": "Position paper", "text": "Position paper\n\nA position paper is an essay that presents an arguable opinion about an issue – typically that of the author or some specified entity. Position papers are published in academia, in politics, in law and other domains. The goal of a position paper is to convince the audience that the opinion presented is valid and worth listening to. Ideas for position papers that one is considering need to be carefully examined when choosing a topic, developing an argument, and organizing the paper. \n\nPosition papers range from the simplest format of a letter to the editor, through to the most complex in the form of an academic position paper. Position papers are also used by large organizations to make public the official beliefs and recommendations of the group.\n\nPosition papers in academia enable discussion on emerging topics without the experimentation and original research normally present in an academic paper. Commonly, such a document will substantiate the opinions or positions put forward with evidence from an extensive objective discussion of the topic.\n\nPosition papers are most useful in contexts where detailed comprehension of another entity's views is important; as such, they are commonly used by political campaigns, government organizations, in the diplomatic world, and in efforts to change values (e.g. through public service announcements) and organisational branding. They are also an important part of the Model United Nations process, and are used in the European Union.\n\nIn government, a position paper lies on somewhere between a white paper and a green paper in that they affirm definite opinions and propose solutions but may not go so far as detailing specific plans for implementation.\n\nIn international law, the term for a position paper is Aide-mémoire. An Aide-Mémoire is memorandum setting forth the minor points of a proposed discussion or disagreement, used especially in undiplomatic communications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44307965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44307965", "title": "The Birth of Biopolitics", "text": "The Birth of Biopolitics\n\nThe Birth of Biopolitics is a part of a lecture series by French philosopher Michel Foucault at the Collège de France between 1978 and 1979 and published posthumously based on audio recordings. In it, Foucault develops further the notion of biopolitics introduced in a previous lecture series, \"Security, Territory, Population\", by tracing the ways in which the eighteenth-century political economy marked the birth of a new governmental rationality. Foucault uses the term Governmentality and raising questions of Political science, political philosophy and social policy concerning the role and status of the State and neo-liberalism in twentieth century politics.\n\nFor Foucault, biopolitics is political power exercised on whole populations in every aspect of human life. Foucault discusses the basic definition of the practices of the neoliberal art of government. Foucault then tries to redefine the boundaries set by liberal thought on this matter. Foucault concentrates on the monetary aspect of government as a point of concern, frugal government, the art of maximum and a minimum and between the total opposite minimum and maximum.\n\nFoucault looks at the early institutional practices of this method of frugal government, which starts from the early Middle Ages down to the early 16th and 17th centuries. The market appears from the early Middle Ages where the function of interest on money lending was strictly prohibited; one of the reasons being that the church was the main institution lending money at interest on church property where rental income was charged on church property a primary source of income for the church and it would have brought down the price of the church rental income if faced with rival competitors. Justification, according to Foucault, for the market was justice which was why the market existed in the first place. But, what was meant by justice? Foucault offers this explanation; it was a site of justice in the sense that the sale price fixed in the market was seen, both by theorist and in practice, as a just price, or at any rate a price that should be the just price, which meant to the theorists of the day a price that was to have a certain relationship with work performed, with the needs of the merchants, and of course, with the consumers needs and possibilities.\n\nThe next general theme Foucault introduces is the German Ordoliberalism, the Freiburg School which produced general problems among themselves, namely the state apparatus and its reconstruction after the Second World War. This general theme led to neo-liberalism heavy reliances on the law obviously, but it too, had to produce a new kind of consensus and a rearrangement consensus between the general populace; the working population, those engaged in production. This general or collective consensus produced 'economic partners' in this so-called 'economic game', such as; investors, employers, government officials, work force, and trade union officials. Foucault then offers some explanation on what was the reasoning behind this consensus between all these so-called different economic partners. According to Foucault this produced another kind of consensus, which was political power of the electoral community, not the political power of the right to vote, but the right of the political community to exchange seats, a rearrangement of the very relations of the so-called change of 'government' which gives and protects legitimacy. Which becomes political consensus, inasmuch as the 'economic partners 'accept the economic game of freedom. This is very much on neo-liberalism agenda, which according to Foucault was exactly the agenda that neo-liberalism required.\n\nA strong Deutschmark, a satisfactory rate of economic growth, increased wages, an expanding purchasing power, and a favorable balance of payments which became a by product of the effects of good government. Foucault reads into this that in contemporary German which was in reality a founding consensus of the state. Foucault notices that this formation of a liberal type of governmentality had general shifts within this circle which can be traced back to the 18th century old or classical liberalism programmed by the Physiocrats, Turgot, and the other economists, for whom the problem was the exact opposite. The problem that neo-liberalism had to resolve was the following: given the existence of a legitimate state, which is fully functional under the police state with all its administration form of police state, how can this be limited within the existing state and, above all, allow for the necessary economic freedom within it.\n\nFor Foucault, this was the exact opposite because after the Second World War, the war machine that was unleashed was due to the fact that the system of economic rationality had broken down and the organisational network of world trade and its accompanied trade settlement system had completely become untenable, in which trust in the final payment settlement system had completely vanished, therefore initiating the military machine.\n\nAnother theme Foucault concentrates on is the neo-liberalism conception of social effects, \"Gesellschaftspolitik\", known in English, from the German, as the \"policy of society\", this policy of society addresses the whole consensus of society. But this \"Gesellschaftspolitik\" had a two sided inconsistency, it had to produce the willing actors who take part in the economic process to accept the reality of their economic position and therefore their fate. The working population or labor force, the ones involved in production, madness, disease, medicine, delinquency, sexuality, but somehow, none of these faults/errors never existed before practices were involved and invented to become part of collective consciousness within practices. Foucault deals with this problem as necessary intrinsic operations of government which inextribably can produce \"regimes of truth\" (Foucault means regimes of truth as necessary social practices which become necessary objects of knowledge).\n\nThe ability to extrapolate a collective of co-ordinate errors becoming co-ordinated practices which become something that did not exist in the first place, but now becomes established systems of knowledge objects. The political regimes of truth (political power upon every aspect of human social life), the battle between legitimacy, submitting to a fabricated division between true and false. Foucault begins to try to trace back through time how this was at all possible, Foucault manages this task by reading into the set of practices interwoven into the policy of society, this was accomplished from the 16th until the 18th century where there was a whole set of practices of tax levies, customs, charges, manufacture regulations, regulations of grain prices, the protection and codification of market practices, etc.\n\nThis was well conceived by the exercise of sovereign rights, feudal rights, as the maintenance of customs, as effective procedure of enrichment for the financial administration of the general sovereign or the tax authorities, or as techniques for preventing urban revolt due to the discontent of this or that group of subjects. Foucault takes a look at these general practices through looking at the economic practices involved from the 18th century (where Mercantilism was at its peak) where a coherence strategy established an intelligible mechanism which provided a coherent link, together these different practices and their effects, and consequently allows one to judge all these practices as good or bad, not in terms of a law or moral principle, but in terms of propositions subject to the false dichotomy between true and false. Governments, Foucault noticed, were compelled to enter this competitive environment, by doing so entering into new regimes of truth with the fundamental effect of reconfiguring all the questions formally beset by the art of government.\n\nFoucault turns his attention to ordoliberalism's view on social policy and how this can be woven into society's political power which differentates from Adam Smith's liberalism two centuries earlier. This problem was faced head on by ordoliberalism; how can the overall exercise of political power be modeled on the principles of a market economy? To accomplish this the old version of classic liberalism had to be subjected to a whole series of modifications. The first set of transformations was the dissociation of the market economy from the political principle of laissez-faire, this uncoupling of the market and laissez-faire was replaced with, not abandon by a theory of pure competition which produced a formal structure and formal properties which could lay the fundamental principle of the compective structure that assured economic regulation through the price mechanism. This is a break from traditional liberalism principles.Founded by traditional liberals such as Walter Lippmann and expressed by many other traditional liberals such as Jacques Rueff, Wilhelm Röpke, Alexander Rüstow, Friedrich Hayek, Robert Marjolin, Ludwig von Mises, and their intermediaries and a non-economist, but however, was highly influential, according to Foucault Raymond Aron.\n\nHow would neo-liberalism define the new governmental action? Foucault traces three examples which neo-liberalism call a conformable economic action; firstly the question of monopolies which they claimed differed somewhat from classic liberalism. The classic conception of the economy as the monopoly seen as somehow semi-neutral, semi-necessary consequence of the competition in a capitalist system. The neo-liberal dream of competition cannot be left to develop without monopolistic phenomena appearing at the same time. This would eventually have the effect, of suppressing the operation of mechanism that facilitate, bring with them, and hopefully determine its eventual destiny. However, Foucault notices specific problems began to emerge for neo-liberalism, not only specific to neo-liberalism was how to incorporate civil society, political power; and Homo oeconomicus into a non-substitutable, irreducible atom of interest. Foucault makes the starting point of his investigations into this process from the 18th century where \"Homo oeconomicus\" has to be integrated into the system of which he is a part.\n\nThe concept \"Homo economicus\" had specific problems being interwoven into the new-found economic process of the 18th century. Foucault manages to trace this anomaly through the subject of right (known as consent of the governed the theory of right of that legal theorists of the 18th century tried to establish during their legal discourse) which did receive a great deal of attention because of what was perceived at the time of problems regarding the sovereign's power. The subject of right had to perform slight modifications because of the implication of him (the subject of right) limiting the sovereign's power. Which certainly differed from classical liberalism's conception of the sovereign power, which from the 16th century was conceived of as impenetrable to any rational discourse. The sovereign was conceived of as absolute, but the discovery of the people, subject of rights, homo oeconomicus, changed all that because of the arrival of market practices (the market system of capitalism) from the 18th century. Even the Physiocrats insisted that the market, the sovereign had to really respect the market.\n\nHow could this new problematic of liberalism, the sovereign, the market, and the new-found political power, homo oeconomicus which economic activity had at least specific patterns of correlation could be moulded into one tight unit? Foucault seeks the answer to this with a new field of reference, civil society. Foucault answers this question on the process of how to govern through governmental technology, the new neo-liberals, economic liberals sought to have a heterogeneity of the economic and the judicial which must be pegged to an economy understood as process of production and exchange. Civil society, according to Foucault's analysis, must place particular attention to its correlation of technology of government, the rational measure of which must be judicially pegged to an economy understood as the process of production and exchange.\n\nWhat made this version of civil society tick? Foucault makes the amalgamation of civil society into society, which at the end of the 18th century became known as the nation (now known to us as the nation state). This became omnipresent, nothing was allowed to escape, which was to conform to the rules of right, and a government which nevertheless respects the specificity of the economy, will be a government that manages civil society, the nation, society, and the social. Foucault continues the theme on Homo oeconomicus which became part and parcel to this feature, \"Homo oeconomicus\" and civil society were two inseparable features and belonged to the same ensemble of the technology of liberal governmentality. For Foucault this was no mere coincidence, since the 19th century, civil society has always been referred to in political philosophy discourse as a fixed reality, which according to this theory, was outside of government or the state or state apparatuses or institutions. This omnipresent has many characteristics and one its main features are a primary and immediate reality which forms part of modern governmental technology.\n\nFoucault views this governmental characteristic as simply the direct correlation of modern society's direct association with madness, disease, sexuality, criminal recidivism and criminal delinquency which he calls transactional realities. Although civil society, along with its associated governmental technologies haven't always existed they are nonetheless real, by real he simply means the power dynamic and their interplay with the rest of society in which all those involved, everything within it constantly eludes them. It is in Foucault's analysis where he makes four important points on this governmental modern technology of biopolitics; an absolute correlative to the form of governmental technology which liberalism associated itself with, and it is pegged, tied to the specificity of economic process.\n\nHow were all three incorporated into rational liberalism philosophical discourse? Foucault cites the well-known texts of Adam Ferguson: \"Essay on the History of Civil Society\"; from the 18th century to show how liberalism approached this problem from different angles and Adam Smith and his \"The Wealth of Nations\" which complement one another with regards civil society. First: there is a political and social correlate in terms of civil society. Second, civil society as principle of spontaneous synthesis; third, civil society as permanent matrix of political power; and fourth, civil society as the motor element that drives human history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8044506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8044506", "title": "The Book Club", "text": "The Book Club\n\nThe Book Club (formerly First Tuesday Book Club) is an Australian television show that discusses books, ostensibly in the style of a domestic book club. Hosted by journalist Jennifer Byrne, it uses the panel format with two regular members–book reviewer Jason Steger and author/blogger Marieke Hardy – and two guest members. The show first aired on the ABC on 1 August 2006 and was scheduled as a monthly program. The show concluded in 2017. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGuests have included Jesuit priest Frank Brennan, actress Penny Cook, gardener Peter Cundall, Sex Discrimination Commissioner Pru Goward, feminist Germaine Greer, author Di Morrissey, enfant-terrible John Safran, musician and broadcaster Lindsay \"The Doctor\" Mc Dougall, politician Malcolm Turnbull, retired NSW Premier Bob Carr, comedian Judith Lucy, retired Australian General (and author) Peter Cosgrove, and actor/writer/director Richard E Grant.\n\n"}
{"id": "41167930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41167930", "title": "Time Capsule (Macau)", "text": "Time Capsule (Macau)\n\nTime Capsule (, ) is a time capsule that symbolizes the Portuguese government's witnessing and acknowledgement of China's promise to maintain Macau's level of autonomy for fifty years after the transfer of sovereignty. The Time Capsule was closed and covered on 18 December 1999 and it is scheduled to be opened in 2049. Currently, the Time Capsule is located in the Praça do Centro Cultural de Macau, which was the venue for the transference of sovereignty ceremony.\n\nThe metallic Time Capsule, designed by Donato Moreno, is a drum-type container measuring approximately in diameter by in height. Its cover carries the inscription \"19.12.1999 MACAU 澳門 19.12.2049\", representing the last date on which Portugal controlled Macau (19 December 1999), the city's name in Portuguese and Chinese and the date on which the time capsule is to be opened (19 December 2049).\n\nPresident of the Portuguese Republic Jorge Fernando Branco de Sampaio with the Governor of Macau Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira hosted the ceremony to seal the Time Capsule in front of Pavilhão da Cerimónia de Transferênciade Poderes, the venue of the ceremony for the transfer of sovereignty over Macau at noon on 18 December 1999 (the transfer itself occurred on the 20th). At around 13:00, Sampaio and Vieira put the relevant documents with the transfer of sovereignty over Macau into the time capsule one by one. The capsule was then lowered by steel chains into the well to a depth of around deep, buried and capped. The capsule was ceremonially sealed by Sampaio who gave a speech just before midnight on the day of the transfer.\n\nThe time capsule is expected to be opened on 19 December 2049 – 50 years from its burial, symbolizing the Central People's Government of the People's Republic of China's promise of maintaining \"one country, two systems\", and guaranteeing a high level of autonomy of Macau ruled by their residents for 50 years after the transfer of sovereignty to People's Republic of China, as witnessed by the Portuguese Government.\n\nThe Time Capsule contains the Joint Declaration of the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the question of Macao, Basic Law of the Macao Special Administrative Region. Moreover, documents, newspaper clippings and official press releases that related to the transfer of sovereignty during the transition period were also put into the capsule.\n\n"}
{"id": "2151958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151958", "title": "Tonto National Monument", "text": "Tonto National Monument\n\nTonto National Monument is a National Monument in the Superstition Mountains, in Gila County of central Arizona. The area lies on the northeastern edge of the Sonoran Desert ecoregion, an arid habitat with annual rainfall of about 16 inches (400 mm) here. The Salt River runs through this area, providing a rare, year-round source of water.\n\nWell-preserved cliff dwellings were occupied by the Salado culture during the 13th, 14th, and early 15th centuries. The people farmed in the Salt River Valley, and supplemented their diet by hunting and gathering native plants. The Salado were fine craftspeople, producing some of the most flamboyant polychrome pottery and intricately woven textiles to be found in the Southwest. Some of the artifacts excavated nearby are on display in the visitor center museum.\n\nThe Tonto National Monument Archeological District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966. Tonto National Monument, Lower Ruin and Tonto National Monument, Upper Ruin are archeological sites that were NRHP-listed in 1989.\n\nThe National Monument is surrounded by the Tonto National Forest, which includes low plains, desert scrubland, and alpine pine forests.\n\nThe Upper Sonoran ecosystem is known for its characteristic saguaro cacti. Other common plants include: cholla, prickly pear, hedgehog, and barrel cactus (flowering from April to June); yucca, sotol, and agave; creosote bush and ocotillo; palo verde and mesquite trees; an amazing variety of colorful wild flowers in good years (February to March); and a lush riparian area which supports large Arizona Walnut, Arizona Sycamore, and hackberry trees.\n\nIt also serves as a home for native animals such as whitetail and mule deer, mountain lion, bobcat, three rattlesnake species and many more.\n\nThe area around Tonto National Monument also includes several designated National Wilderness Areas, including Four Peaks, Superstition, and Salome Wilderness Areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "29006252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29006252", "title": "Word lists by frequency", "text": "Word lists by frequency\n\nWord lists by frequency are lists of a language's words grouped by frequency of occurrence within some given text corpus, either by levels or as a ranked list, serving the purpose of vocabulary acquisition. A word list by frequency \"provides a rational basis for making sure that learners get the best return for their vocabulary learning effort\" (), but is mainly intended for course writers, not directly for learners. Frequency lists are also made for lexicographical purposes, serving as a sort of checklist to ensure that common words are not left out. Some major pitfalls are the corpus content, the corpus register, and the definition of \"word\". While word counting is a thousand years old, with still gigantic analysis done by hand in the mid-20th century, natural language electronic processing of large corpora such as movie subtitles (SUBTLEX megastudy) has accelerated the research field.\n\nIn computational linguistics, a frequency list is a sorted list of words (word types) together with their frequency, where frequency here usually means the number of occurrences in a given corpus, from which the rank can be derived as the position in the list.\n\nNation () noted the incredible help provided by computing capabilities, making corpus analysis much easier. He cited several key issues which influence the construction of frequency lists:\n\nMost of currently available studies are based on written text corpus, more easily available and easy to process.\n\nHowever, proposed to tap into the large number of subtitles available online to analyse large numbers of speeches. made a long critical evaluation of this traditional textual analysis approach, and support a move toward speech analysis and analysis of film subtitles available online. This has recently been followed by a handful of follow-up studies, providing valuable frequency count analysis for various languages. Indeed, the SUBTLEX movement completed in five years full studies for French (), American English (; ), Dutch (), Chinese (), Spanish (), Greek (), Vietnamese (), Portuguese (), Albanian () and Polish ().\n\nIn any case, the basic \"word\" unit should be defined. For Latin scripts, words are usually one or several characters separated either by spaces or punctuation. But exceptions can arise, such as English \"can't\", French \"aujourd'hui\", or idioms. It may also be preferable to group words of a word family under the representation of its base word. Thus, \"possible, impossible, possibility\" are words of the same word family, represented by the base word \"*possib*\". For statistical purpose, all these words are summed up under the base word form *possib*, allowing the ranking of a concept and form occurrence. Moreover, other languages may present specific difficulties. Such is the case of Chinese, which does not use spaces between words, and where a specified chain of several characters can be interpreted as either a phrase of unique-character words, or as a multi-character word.\n\nIt seems that Zipf's law holds for frequency lists drawn from longer texts of any natural language. Frequency lists are a useful tool when building an electronic dictionary, which is a prerequisite for a wide range of applications in computational linguistics.\n\nGerman linguists define the \"Häufigkeitsklasse\" (frequency class) formula_1 of an item in the list using the base 2 logarithm of the ratio between its frequency and the frequency of the most frequent item. The most common item belongs to frequency class 0 (zero) and any item that is approximately half as frequent belongs in class 1. In the example list above, the misspelled word \"outragious\" has a ratio of 76/3789654 and belongs in class 16.\nwhere formula_3 is the floor function.\n\nFrequency lists, together with semantic networks, are used to identify the least common, specialized terms to be replaced by their hypernyms in a process of semantic compression.\n\nThose lists are not intended to be given directly to students, but rather to serve as a guideline for teachers and textbook authors (). Paul Nation's modern language teaching summary encourages first to \"move from high frequency vocabulary and special purposes [thematic] vocabulary to low frequency vocabulary, then to teach learners strategies to sustain autonomous vocabulary expansion\" ().\n\nWord frequency is known to have various effects (; ). Memorization is positively affected by higher word frequency, likely because the learner is subject to more exposures (). Lexical access is positively influenced by high word frequency, a phenonmenon called word frequency effect () The effect of word frequency is related to the effect of age-of-acquisition, the age at which the word was learned.\n\nBelow is a review of available resources.\n\nWord counting dates back to Hellenistic time. Thorndike & Lorge, assisted by their colleagues, counted 18,000,000 running words to provide the first large scale frequency list in 1944, before modern computers made such projects far easier ().\n\nThese all suffer from their age. In particular, words relating to technology, such as \"blog,\" which, in 2014, was #7665 in frequency in the Corpus of Contemporary American English, was first attested to in 1999, and does not appear in any of these three lists.\n\nThe TWB contains 30,000 lemmas or ~13,000 word families (Goulden, Nation and Read, 1990). A corpus of 18 million written words was hand analysed. The size of its source corpus increased its usefulness, but its age, and language changes, have reduced its applicability ().\n\nThe GSL contains 2,000 headwords divided into two sets of 1,000 words. A corpus of 5 million written words was analyzed in the 1940s. The rate of occurrence (%) for different meanings, and parts of speech, of the headword are provided. Various criteria, other than frequence and range, were carefully applied to the corpus. Thus, despite its age, some errors, and its corpus being entirely written text, it is still an excellent database of word frequency, frequency of meanings, and reduction of noise (). This list was updated in 2013 by Dr. Charles Browne, Dr. Brent Culligan and Joseph Phillips as the New General Service List.\n\nA corpus of 5 million running words, from written texts used in United States schools (various grades, various subject areas). Its value is in its focus on school teaching materials, and its tagging of words by the frequency of each word, in each of the school grade, and in each of the subject areas ().\n\nThese now contain 1 million words from a written corpus representing different dialects of English. These sources are used to produce frequency lists ().\n\nA review has been made by .\nAn attempt was made in the 1950s–60s with the . It includes the F.F.1 list with 1,500 high-frequency words, completed by a later F.F.2 list with 1,700 mid-frequency words, and the most used syntax rules. It is claimed that 70 grammatical words constitute 50% of the communicatives sentence, while 3,680 words make about 95~98% of coverage. A list of 3,000 frequent words is available.\n\nThe French Ministry of the Education also provide a ranked list of the 1,500 most frequent word families, provided by the lexicologue Étienne Brunet. Jean Baudot made a study on the model of the American Brown study, entitled \"Fréquences d'utilisation des mots en français écrit contemporain\".\n\nMore recently, the project Lexique 3 provided a list of 135,000 French words, with orthography, phonetic, syllabation, part of speech, gender, number, frequency, associated lexemes, etc., available under an open-source license\n\n made a completely new counting based on online film subtitles.\n\nThere have been several studies of Spanish word frequency ().\n\nChinese corpuses have long been studied from the perspective of frequency lists. The historical way to learn Chinese vocabulary is based on characters frequency (). American sinologist John DeFrancis mentioned its importance for Chinese as a foreign language learning and teaching in \"Why Johnny Can't Read Chinese\" (). As a frequency toolkit, Da () and the Taiwanese Ministry of Education () provided large databases with frequency ranks for characters and words. The HSK list of 8,848 high and medium frequency words in the People's Republic of China, and the Republic of China (Taiwan)'s TOP list of about 8,600 common traditional Chinese words are two other lists displaying common Chinese words and characters. Following the SUBTLEX movement, recently made a rich study of Chinese word and character frequencies.\n\nMost frequently used words in different languages based on Wikipedia or combined corpora.\n\n\n100 most frequently used French words with example sentences based on www.opensubtitles.org\n\n\n\n\n"}
