{"id": "1917977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917977", "title": "8 Man", "text": "8 Man\n\nThe manga was published in Weekly Shōnen Magazine and ran from 1963 to 1966. The anime series, produced by Eiken with the TCJ Animation Center, was broadcast on Tokyo Broadcasting System, and ran from November 17, 1963, to December 31, 1964, with a total of 56 episodes (plus the \"farewell\" special episode, \"Goodbye, Eightman\").\n\nMurdered by criminals, Detective Yokoda's body is retrieved by Professor Tani and taken to his laboratory. There, Tani performs an experiment that has failed seven times; Yokoda is the eighth subject to have his life force transferred into an android body. For the first time, the experiment succeeds. Yokoda is reborn as the armor-skinned android 8 Man, able to dash at impossible speeds, as well as shape-shift into other people. He shifts himself into Yokoda, this time christening himself as \"Hachiro Azuma\". He keeps this identity a secret, known only to Tani and his police boss Chief Tanaka. Even his girlfriend Sachiko and friend Ichiro do not know he is an android. As 8-Man, Hachiro fights crime (even bringing his own murderers to justice). To rejuvenate his powers, he smokes \"energy\" cigarettes that he carries in a cigarette case on his belt.\n\nIn Japan, the character's origin actually varies significantly between the original manga, the TV series, and the live-action movie. In the original Japanese manga and TV series, the character's name does not change when he is reborn as 8 Man. The \"Detective Yokoda\" name was created for the live-action version. In the manga, Detective Azuma is trapped in a warehouse and gunned down, while the TV series has him killed when he is run over by a car. Also, in the Japanese story, the character is called \"8 Man\" because he is considered an extra member of the Japanese police force. There are seven regular police precincts and 8 Man is treated as an unofficial eighth precinct all to himself.\n\nThe Japanese manga was presented as serial novella stories along with a set of one-shot stories. Many of the stories were edited down and adapted for the TV series, but not all of them. The novella stories were originally printed on a weekly basis in \"Shukuu Shōnen Magazine\" in 16-page increments that consisted of 15 story pages and one title page. Ten additional one-shot stories were presented in seasonal and holiday specials of \"Shuukuu Shōnen Magazine\". These stories were generally between 30-40 pages in length.\n\nIn the North American version of the series the resurrected detective/android is known as \"Tobor\" or the word \"robot\" spelled backwards. Tani is referred to as \"Professor Genius\" and the sobriquet of 8-Man is changed slightly to \"8th-Man\". The story content was clearly directed toward a wider audience of both young and adult viewers. Due to changes in cigarette advertising laws in the 1960s, television characters were not allowed to be seen smoking. As this was a major plot device in the series, the show was forced to be removed from broadcast in the United States.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1965, 8 Man was brought to the U.S. as 8th Man (sometimes called \"Tobor the 8th Man,\" as in its English-language theme music), with ABC Films as its syndicated distributor. Only 52 of the original 56 episodes were \"converted\" into English.\n\nThe characters were renamed as follows:\n\n8 Man was ranked ninth in Mania Entertainment's 10 Most Iconic Anime Heroes written by Thomas Zoth, who commented that, \"Before \"Cyborg 009\", \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", and \"Robocop\", there was 8 Man: The first cyborg manga and anime hero. Building on \"Astro Boy\", 8 Man helped to shape the trajectory of robot and cyborg heroes for the next decade.\"\n\nThe 8 Man franchise was revived in the early 1990s by a live-action film, video game and new animated series.\n\nIn 1991, SNK released a video game edition of \"Eight Man\" for the Neo-Geo arcade and home video game system (both versions are identical) where the player took the role of 8 Man and his robo-comrade 9 Man in a fight against an invading evil robot army. The game was released internationally. While the game stayed true to the concept of a crime-fighting super-robot, it was widely panned for being tedious and relying too much on the gimmick of its speed-running effect.\n\nIn 1992, a live-action film version of 8 Man was produced in Japan. Titled \"Eitoman - Subete no Sabishī Yoru no Tame ni\" (, lit. \"8 Man - For All the Lonely Night\"), it was directed by Yasuhiro Horiuchi and starred Kai Shishido as the title character and Toshihide Wakamatsu as Detective Yokota. Distributed in the United States by Fox Lorber video simply as \"8 Man\", the movie was widely panned for its choppy editing, mediocre direction and low-budget feel. Many modern American viewers, unfamiliar with the older animated series, felt the movie was an inferior version of \"RoboCop\", despite the fact that the latter was a much more recent franchise.\n\nIn mid-1993, the mantle of 8 Man was taken up by Hazama Itsuru in the OVA series \"8 Man After\". Existing in a world far more corrupt than that of his predecessor, the new 8 Man had no qualms about being extremely violent towards the cybernetic criminals who had murdered him previously. Licensed by Streamline Pictures where it went out of print until being released on DVD by Image Entertainment in 2001. It has since been released by Discotek Media in 2016 with Japanese audio and English subtitles for the first time. \n\nA manga series called is being authored by Kyoichi Nanatsuki under Kodansha, which is being serialized under Kodansha's \"Magazine Z\".\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "11576854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11576854", "title": "Abraham the Writer", "text": "Abraham the Writer\n\nAbraham the Writer is a saint of the Syriac Orthodox Church. His feast day is December 30.\n\n"}
{"id": "35883728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35883728", "title": "Adam de Lathbury", "text": "Adam de Lathbury\n\nAdam de Lathbury, O.S.B., otherwise known as Adam of Lathbury or Adam Lothbury, was a Benedictine monk who ruled as Abbot of Reading Abbey, in the English county of Berkshire, from 1226 to 1238.\n\nIn 1233, a group of friars of the Franciscan Order arrived in Reading with the intention of creating a community to minister to the poor and the oppressed. This arrival was not welcomed by the established Reading Abbey, but the fact that the friars had royal patronage meant that Abbot Adam was obliged to assist. He granted them a site alongside the road to Caversham Bridge, but the site proved prone to flooding, and they later moved to the site now occupied by the town's Greyfriars Church.\n"}
{"id": "26501301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26501301", "title": "Astrobiology Science and Technology for Exploring Planets", "text": "Astrobiology Science and Technology for Exploring Planets\n\nAstrobiology Science and Technology for Exploring Planets (ASTEP) is a program established by NASA to sponsor research projects that advance the technology and techniques used in planetary exploration. The objective is to enable the study of astrobiology and to aid the planning of extraterrestrial exploration missions while prioritizing science, technology, and field campaigns.\n\nASTEP is one of four elements of NASA's Astrobiology Program, which falls under the Planetary Science Division of the Science Mission Directorate. According to the formal description from NASA, \"The ASTEP program sponsors the development of technologies that enable remote searches for, and identification of, life in extreme environments, including planetary surfaces and subsurfaces.\" ASTEP is concerned with discovering technologies which will enable scientists to study astrobiology both on the surface of the Earth and on extraterrestrial bodies. A central focus of ASTEP's research is terrestrial field campaigns, or long-duration expeditions where researchers live in the same region they are studying. These are conducted on Earth in remote or hostile locations, such as Antarctica or the bottom of the ocean. Through understanding complex and exotic life on Earth, such as extremophiles, scientists hope to better define the characteristics they should look for and the locations they should seek when attempting to discover extraterrestrial life.\n\nASTEP funded projects typically perform research by searching for and studying extremophile biology in Earth's harshest environments through the use of field research campaigns. The environments where this research is conducted is meant to simulate the expected conditions on extraterrestrial worlds in the Solar System. Past field work has typically targeted two regions. Arctic and Antarctic climates simulate the low temperatures expected on many other planets such as Mars, near rover landing sites. Underwater regions are also an area of study because they simulate high pressure, low light and variable temperature conditions. This region simulates proposed missions to explore the vast liquid water ocean that is expected to reside under Jupiter's moon, Europa.\n\nASTEP promotes the development of new exploration technologies and techniques that can search, identify, and study life in extreme conditions in locations that are difficult to access. There is a broad range of things that can fall into this category. Previous examples include laboratories such as the Mars Science Laboratory, sampling techniques, the Mars rovers, the Titan lander (Huygens), and submersibles. Autonomous systems are preferred because data can be collected without the presence of humans near the test area. The field campaigns are used as a proof-of-concept for the proposed technologies as well as a demonstration. They are generally tested with mock-mission where conditions and challenges simulate those that might be experienced on an actual mission. This helps identify their strengths and weaknesses in the technology’s mission execution and structural endurance.\n\nBeyond the practice of new technologies, ASTEP strives to learn more about astrobiology through observation and study on the field campaigns. Analyzing the collected samples helps researchers determine the thermal, photonic, pressure, and chemical boundary conditions for living organisms. Understanding how these organisms adapt and evolve in these extreme conditions may be similar to the methods used by extraterrestrial organisms, and thus offers clues about where life may be found. Another area of study is the environmental footprint that extremophile life leaves behind, biomolecules or biosignatures such as chemical trails, geological formations, etc. Identifying these clues often inspires new biology searching techniques, and simplifies mission planning.\n\n\n\nThe 2011 projects included:\n\nStromatolite building provides important geological information on the history of microorganisms dating back to over a billion years ago. In recent years, ASTEP has been researching how these layered fossils could have formed by studying modern day microbial mats, which leave stromatolite similar to their ancestors.\n\nASTEP's instrument development program is currently working on a prototype to detect the presence of DNA on the Martian surface. The prototype will replicate any DNA found in Martian ice or regolith using polymerase chain reaction amplification techniques.\n\nThe IceBite Project involves testing drills for future Martian missions where ice will need to be penetrated. The research is being conducted in high altitude Antarctic valleys which closely resemble the \"Phoenix\" landing site in geologic composition. As of 2009, the scientists have successfully completed the first phase of the three-year mission, which was to probe the region, install scientific instruments, and determine the future testing sites.\n\nA team of ASTEP scientists are exploring the Mid-Cayman Spreading Center, a wide ridge at the westernmost region of the Cayman Trough. Oceanic life reaches the extremes at the depths, where the pressure is the greatest and underwater sea vents pump hot and mineral-rich water into the ocean. Project researchers think extraterrestrial life could be similar to the exotic life forms found near these vents. The submersible Nereus was developed by ASTEP to autonomously survey the hydrothermal vent systems at the depths of the Mid-Cayman Spreading Center.\n\nIn order to raise awareness about the research being conducted under the auspices of ASTEP, scientists have been increasingly using blogs as a way to convey information about their studies, typically when they are performing science at a remote location on a terrestrial field test. Scientists have also begun contacting museums via satellite uplink to discuss astrobiology with the public. The most prominent blog is produced by NASA's IceBite team, which performs annual expeditions to Antarctica.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24012897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24012897", "title": "Aurelia Henry Reinhardt", "text": "Aurelia Henry Reinhardt\n\nAurelia Isabel Henry Reinhardt (April 1, 1877 – January 28, 1948) was an American educator, activist, and prominent member and leader of numerous organizations. She completed her undergraduate studies at the University of California, Berkeley, her doctoral dissertation at Yale, and studied as a fellow at Oxford. After teaching at the University of Idaho, the Lewiston State Normal School, and with the Extension Division of the University of California, Reinhardt was elected president of Mills College in 1916, and held the position until 1943, making her the longest serving president in the history of the school.\n\nReinhardt was a peace activist during the First World War, an active member of the Republican Party, and supported the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles as well as the formation of the League of Nations. She wrote and spoke extensively throughout the US and Europe, to a range of social, political and business groups, on topics including the education of women, women's suffrage, world peace, and international cooperation. Reinhardt was president of the American Association of University Women, and a prominent member of the American Unitarian Association, serving for two years as its first female moderator. As the only female member of the Unitarian Commission of Appraisal, she delivered the Ware Lecture in 1932, and was briefly a minister in Oakland, California. She was a director of the Starr King School for the Ministry, and was a delegate at the inaugural meeting of the United Nations in 1945.\n\nAurelia Henry Reinhardt was married to George F. Reinhardt in 1909. They had two sons, who she raised after his unexpected death in 1914. Following her retirement in 1943, she traveled internationally before returning to California, where she died on January 28, 1948, due to heart problems. A lifelong advocate for the marginalized and dispossessed, she was the recipient of honorary degrees from a number of educational institutions, and has been commemorated through the establishment of a society, fellowship, a university building, and a professorship bearing her name. She was named nationally as \"one of the ten outstanding women of 1940,\" and honored as the California State Mother in 1946.\n\nAurelia Isabel Henry was born on April 1, 1877, in San Francisco, California. The second of six children, she was the daughter of Mary and William Warner Henry, a wholesale grocer, land owner, and businessman. She spent part of her childhood in San Jacinto and Escondido, California. After graduating from Boys High School in San Francisco in 1888, she studied at the University of California, Berkeley, completing a bachelor's degree with a major in English literature in 1898. While attending the University of California she, along with her sisters, worked with their mother who ran a boardinghouse in Berkeley. Henry then taught elocution and physical culture at the University of Idaho from 1898 to 1901.\n\nShe completed a Ph.D. in literature at Yale in 1905 with a doctoral dissertation on \"Epicoene, or the Silent Woman\" by Ben Jonson. She taught at Lewiston State Normal School in Idaho beginning in 1903, taking one year off to revise her dissertation for publication, and eventually becoming the head of the English Department. She traveled abroad as a recipient of an Association of Collegiate Alumnae Fellowship, studied as a fellow at the University of Oxford, traveled Italy, and published an English language translation of \"De Monarchia\" by Dante Alighieri. She then returned to teaching in Idaho for another three years.\n\nBy 1908 her brother Paul had fallen ill, and she left her teaching position to care for him in Arizona, until his death in 1909. While there, she met and began a relationship with Paul's doctor, George F. Reinhardt, professor of hygiene, founder and director of the student health service at the University of California, Berkeley, and member of the California Board of Medical Examiners. The two were wed in 1909, in a ceremony at the Unitarian Universalist Church of Berkeley. He later died unexpectedly in 1914, following an \"operation for a minor affliction\" and four days of illness. They had two sons, who Aurelia Henry Reinhardt cared for alone following her husband's death.\n\nIn 1914 Reinhardt became a lecturer in English in the Extension Division of the University of California. She was a member of the Town and Gown Club of Berkeley, Prytancan and English Club of the University of California, Phi Beta Kappa, the Dante Society of America, and Concordance Society of America. \n\nAfter two years of teaching she was appointed president of the then struggling Mills College in Oakland, California, at that time the only women's college on the West Coast and the second oldest women's college in the country. Arriving with her two young children, she is said to have remarked that she was \"was the first college president who arrived on campus pushing a perambulator\". There she served from 1916 to 1943, through a period of substantial growth, making her the longest serving president in the institution's history. During her tenure Mills constructed 17 additional buildings (growing from 11 to 28 total), increased enrollment three-fold in 15 years, and \"gained national, even worldwide favor\", including admission to the Association of American Colleges and Universities in 1917.\n\nReinhardt was active in local, national, and international organizations, lecturing and writing on topics including international cooperation, suffrage, and women's rights. In 1919 she served the Oakland Chamber of Commerce as chair of the City Planning Committee, and she was regularly invited to speak at a range of organizations, such as the Retail Furniture Association of California, the Western Fruit Jobbers Association, the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, and the Advertising Club of Los Angeles.\n\nStarting in the First World War, Reinhardt worked as an advocate for world peace. She supported Democratic President Woodrow Wilson's proposal to create the League of Nations, despite herself being active in the Republican Party. In 1919 she traveled as a delegate to Tokyo for the meeting of the Institute of Pacific Relations, and in 1920 to Washington, D.C., to deliver a petition of 30,000 signatures from Californians urging the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles to end the war. In total, she was a member of more than a dozen peace organizations over the course of her career.\nIn 1922 Reinhardt traveled again to Oxford and then to France as a representative of the American Association of University Women. She served as vice president, and then in 1923, president of the Association, a position she held until 1927, helping to strengthen that organization significantly. In 1928 she was a Republican elector from California, and opponent of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. She continued her work with the Association of University Women into the 1930s, as chair of their Committee on International Relations from 1927 to 1933, also held the chair for the General Federation of Women's Clubs in their Department of Education from 1928 to 1930. Then, during the 1936 presidential election, traveled as a delegate to the Republican National Convention. In 1929 she again traveled to Japan in the interest of the Institute of Pacific Relations, this time meeting in Kyoto.\n\nReinhardt was a devoted and active Unitarian throughout her life. In the 1940s she served as the first female moderator of the American Unitarian Association from 1940 to 1942, which according to contemporary news reports was the first time a large church in the nation had been represented by a woman. Reinhardt served briefly as a minister at the First Unitarian Church of Oakland and delivered the Ware Lecture at the May 1932 meeting of the American Unitarian Association. She also served for a decade on the board of directors at the Starr King School for the Ministry. Reinhardt was the only woman member of the Unitarian Commission of Appraisal, commissioned to \"study the church and find new directions for its re invigoration\".\n\nIn 1945 Reinhardt was a delegate to the inaugural meeting of the United Nations in San Francisco, and spoke to numerous groups throughout the country, advocating for the value of organizations such as UNESCO.\n\nThroughout her life, Reinhardt \"invariably took the side of those individuals who had no resources, who lacked adequate support, or who had in some other way been marginalized by society.\" She has also been described as an \"avid nature lover\", and advocated variously for environmental preservation efforts, and against unchecked and reckless development.\n\nFollowing her retirement as president of Mills College in 1943, Reinhardt traveled in Latin America, Europe, and finally Russia before returning to California. She died on January 28, 1948, in Palo Alto, California, from heart problems. Her ashes are interred at the Columbarium in Oakland. Her eldest son, G. Frederick Reinhardt, was a diplomat. His brother Paul Henry Reinhardt, an ophthalmologist in Palo Alto, served with the U.S. Navy in the Pacific Theater of the Second World War and later taught ophthalmology at Stanford University.\n\nReinhardt was the recipient of multiple honorary degrees, including from:\n\n\nMills College hosts the namesake Aurelia Henry Reinhardt Society, which recognizes those who financially support the college through a bequest or other charitable gift, as well as the Aurelia Henry Reinhardt Faculty Purse, awarded to seniors to support post-graduate study. The school's campus also includes the Aurelia Henry Reinhardt Alumnae House, designed by architect Clarence W. W. Mayhew and built in 1949.\n\nThe Aurelia Henry Reinhardt Fellowship was established in 1940 with fundraising from the South Pacific section of the American Association of University Women and is offered annually to distinguished women scholars. In 1981 the Starr King School for the Ministry introduced the Aurelia Henry Reinhardt Professorship, in order to \"ensure a feminist perspective on the faculty\".\n\nThe archives at Mills College hosts the Reinhardt Collection, a compilation of texts related to \"women, with a strength in women’s suffrage, birth control, and social issues\", and the school also includes the student run Aurelia Reinhardt Historical Society, established to \"inspire an appreciation of the history of the Mills community\".\n\nReinhardt was named \"one of the ten outstanding women of 1940\" by the publication \"American Women\". She was also selected as the California State Mother in 1946, by the American Mothers Committee of the Golden Rule Foundation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17514750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17514750", "title": "Babatunde", "text": "Babatunde\n\nBabatunde (variant forms: Babatunji, Babajide, Babawande, Babs) is a male given name. In the Yoruba language, it means Father Returns, or a Father has Returned. This generally refers to a male ancestor such as a deceased father, grandfather, or great grandfather.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "363336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363336", "title": "Bycatch", "text": "Bycatch\n\nBycatch, in the fishing industry, is a fish or other marine species that is caught unintentionally while catching certain target species and target sizes of fish, crabs etc. Bycatch is either of a different species, the wrong sex, or is undersized or juvenile individuals of the target species. The term \"bycatch\" is also sometimes used for untargeted catch in other forms of animal harvesting or collecting. It is interesting to note that the term \"deliberate\" by-catch is used to refer to the by-catch as a source of illegal wildlife trade (IWT) in several areas throughout world [see: Ermolin and Svolkinas 2018] \n\nIn 1997, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defined bycatch as \"total fishing mortality, excluding that accounted directly by the retained catch of target species\". Bycatch contributes to fishery decline and is a mechanism of overfishing for unintentional catch.\n\nThe average annual bycatch rate in the U.S. from 1990 to 1999 was 6215 with standard error of 448.\n\nThe fisherman bycatch issue originated due to the “mortality of dolphins in tuna nets in the 1960s” \n\nThere are at least four different ways the word \"bycatch\" is used in fisheries:\n\nGiven the popularity of recreational fishing throughout the world, a small local study in the US in 2013 suggested that discards may be an important unmonitored source of fish mortality.\n\nThe highest rates of incidental catch of non-target species are associated with tropical shrimp trawling. In 1997, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) documented the estimated bycatch and discard levels from shrimp fisheries around the world. They found discard rates (bycatch to catch ratios) as high as 20:1 with a world average of 5.7:1.\n\nShrimp trawl fisheries catch 2% of the world total catch of all fish by weight, but produce more than one-third of the world total bycatch. American shrimp trawlers produce bycatch ratios between 3:1 (3 bycatch:1 shrimp) and 15:1 (15 bycatch:1 shrimp).\n\nTrawl nets in general, and shrimp trawls in particular, have been identified as sources of mortality for cetacean and finfish species. When bycatch is discarded (returned to the sea), it is often dead or dying.\n\nTropical shrimp trawlers often make trips of several months without coming to port. A typical haul may last 4 hours after which the net is pulled in. Just before it is pulled on board the net is washed by zigzagging at full speed. The contents are then dumped on deck and are sorted. An average of 5.7:1 means that for every kilogram of shrimp there are 5.7 kg of bycatch. In tropical inshore waters the bycatch usually consists of small fish. The shrimps are frozen and stored on-board; the bycatch is discarded.\n\nRecent sampling in the South Atlantic rock shrimp fishery found 166 species of finfish, 37 crustacean species, and 29 other species of invertebrate among the bycatch in the trawls. Another sampling of the same fishery over a two-year period found that rock shrimp amounted to only 10% of total catch weight. Iridescent swimming crab, dusky flounder, inshore lizardfish, spot, brown shrimp, longspine swimming crabs, and other bycatch made up the rest.\n\nDespite the use of bycatch reduction devices, the shrimp fishery in the Gulf of Mexico removes about 25–45 million red snapper annually as bycatch, nearly one half the amount taken in directed recreational and commercial snapper fisheries.\n\nCetaceans, such as dolphins, porpoises, and whales, can be seriously affected by entanglement in fishing nets and lines, or direct capture by hooks or in trawl nets. Cetacean bycatch is increasing in intensity and frequency. In some fisheries, cetaceans are captured as bycatch but then retained because of their value as food or bait. In this fashion, cetaceans can become a target of fisheries.\nOne example of bycatch is dolphins caught in tuna nets. As dolphins are mammals and do not have gills they may drown while stuck in nets underwater. This bycatch issue has been one of the reasons of the growing ecolabelling industry, where fish producers mark their packagings with disclaimers such as \"dolphin friendly\" to reassure buyers. However, \"dolphin friendly\" does not mean that dolphins were not killed in the production of a particular tin of tuna, but that the fleet which caught the tuna did not \"specifically\" target a feeding pod of dolphins, but relied on other methods to spot tuna schools.\nThe by-catch of the Caspian Seal may be recognized as the one of the biggest entanglements of pinnipeds as by-catch in the world \n\nOf the 21 albatross species recognised by IUCN on their Red List, 19 are threatened, and the other two are \"near threatened\". Two species are considered critically endangered: the Amsterdam albatross and the Chatham albatross. One of the main threats is commercial long-line fishing, because the albatrosses and other seabirds which readily feed on offal are attracted to the set bait, become hooked on the lines and drown. An estimated 100,000 albatross per year are killed in this fashion. Unregulated pirate fisheries exacerbate the problem.\n\nSea turtles, already critically endangered, have been killed in large numbers in shrimp trawl nets. Estimates indicate that thousands of Kemp's ridley, loggerhead, green and leatherback sea turtles are caught in shrimp trawl fisheries in the Gulf of Mexico and the US Atlantic annually The speed and length of the trawl method is significant because, “for a tow duration of less than 10 minutes, the mortality rate for sea turtles is less than one percent, whereas for tows greater than sixty minutes the mortality rate rapidly increases to fifty to one hundred percent”\n\nSea turtles can sometimes escape from the trawls. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Kemp’s ridley turtles recorded most interactions, followed in order by loggerhead, green, and leatherback sea turtles. In the US Atlantic, the interactions were greatest for loggerheads, followed in order by Kemp’s ridley, leatherback, and green sea turtles.\nBycatch is inevitable where there is fishing activities, the incidental catch do not limit to only fish species – dolphins, sea turtles, seabirds are also victims to bycatch. For example, Longlines, trawls and purse seine nets are driving factors of endangerment of 15 shark species. Bycatch could also affect reproduction of populations as juveniles are caught during fishing nets. Bycatch happens most commonly with the use of gillnets, longlines, or bottom trawls. Longlines have bait hooks attached to them and have the potential to extend over 50 miles, along with gill nets in water, they catch everything that swims by, while bottom trawls sweeps the seafloor, grabbing everything along their paths. Currently in the world, there are thousands of miles of different types of nets and lines being put into world’s ocean daily, and these modern fish gear are robust and invisible to the eye, making them efficient at catching fish and bycatching everything else that comes in the way.\n\nHook-and-line fishing could limit bycatch to a certain extent as the non-target animals can be released back to the ocean fairly quickly\n\nConcern about bycatch has led fishermen and scientists to seek ways of reducing unwanted catch. There are two main approaches.\n\nOne approach is to ban fishing in areas where bycatch is unacceptably high. Such area closures can be permanent, seasonal, or for a specific period when a bycatch problem is registered. Temporary area closures are common in some bottom-trawl fisheries where undersized fish or non-target species are caught unpredictably. In some cases fishermen are required to relocate when a bycatch problem occurs.\n\nThe other approach is alternative fishing gear. A technically simple solution is to use nets with a larger mesh size, allowing smaller species and smaller individuals to escape. However, this usually requires replacing the existing gear. In other cases, it is possible to modify gear. The \"Bycatch Reduction Device\" (BRD) and the Nordmore grate are net modifications that help fish escape from shrimp nets.\n\nBRDs allow many commercial finfish species to escape. The US government has approved BRDs that reduce finfish bycatch by 30%. Spanish mackerel and weakfish bycatch in the South Atlantic was reduced by 40%. However, recent surveys suggest BRDs may be less effective than previously thought. A rock shrimp fishery off Florida found the devices did not exclude 166 species of fish, 37 crustacean species, and 29 species of other invertebrates.\n\nIn 1978, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) started to develop turtle excluder devices (TEDs). A TED uses a grid which deflects turtles and other big animals, so they exit from the trawl net through an opening above the grid. US shrimp trawlers and foreign fleets which market shrimp in the US are required to use TEDs. Not all nations enforce the use of TEDs.\n\nFor the most part, when they are used, TEDs have been successful reducing sea turtle bycatch. However, they are not completely effective, and some turtles are still captured. NMFS certifies TED designs if they are 97% effective. In heavily trawled areas, the same sea turtle may pass repeatedly through TEDs. Recent studies indicate recapture rates of twenty percent or more, but it is not clear how many turtles survive the escape process.\n\nThe size selectivity of trawl nets is controlled by the size of the net openings, especially in the \"cod end\". The larger the openings, the more easily small fish can escape. The development and testing of modifications to fishing gear to improve selectivity and decrease impact is called \"conservation engineering.\"\nLongline fishing is controversial in some areas because of by-catch. Mitigation methods have been successfully implemented in some fisheries. These include:\n\nHowever, gear modifications do not eliminate by-catch of many species. In March 2006, the Hawaii longline swordfish fishing season was closed due to excessive loggerhead sea turtle by-catch after being open only a few months, despite using modified circle hooks.\n\nOne solution that Norway came up with to reduce bycatch is to, \"adopt a 'no discards' policy\". This means that the fishermen must keep everything they catch. This policy has helped to, \"encourage [bycatch] research\", which, in turn has helped \"encourage behavioral changes in fishers\" and \"reduce the waste of life\" as well.\n\nSeabirds get entangled in longlines by flocking around vessels, this eventually leads to drowning because they try to catch baits on the hooks. Fisheries had been using “Streamer lines” as a cost-effective solution to mitigate this type of bycatch, and it has dramatically reduced seabird mortality. These streamer lines have bright colors and are made of polyester rope, they are positioned alongside the longlines on both sides. Their bright colors and constantly flapping of water frightens the seabirds and they fly away before reaching the baited hooks. A successful example would be the use of streamer lines in Alaskan groundfish longline fisheries, as the deaths of seabirds declined by about 70% after the employment of these lines.\n\nSome fisheries retain bycatch, rather than throwing the fish back into the ocean. Sometimes bycatch are sorted and sold as food, especially in Asia, Africa and Latin America where cost of labour is cheaper. Bycatch can also be sold in frozen bags as \"assorted seafood\" or \"seafood medley\" at cheaper prices. Bycatch can be converted into fish hydrolysate (ground up fish carcasses) for use as a soil amendment in organic agriculture or it can be used as an ingredient in fish meal. In Southeast Asia bycatch is sometimes used as a raw material for fish sauce production. Bycatch is also commonly de-boned, de-shelled, ground and blended into fish paste or moulded into fish cakes (surimi) and sold either fresh (for domestic use) or frozen (for export). This is commonly the case in Asia or by Asian fisheries. Sometimes bycatch are sold to fish farms to feed farmed fish, especially in Asia.\n\nIf bycatch is quickly released, predators and scavengers may consume it.\n\nThe term \"bycatch\" is used also in contexts other than fisheries. Examples are insect collecting with pitfall traps or flight interception traps for either financial, controlling or scientific purposes (where the bycatch may either be small vertebrates or untargeted insects) and control of introduced vertebrates which have become pest species like the muskrat in Europe (where the bycatch in traps may be e.g. European mink or waterfowl).\n\n"}
{"id": "1591856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591856", "title": "Cervical dilation", "text": "Cervical dilation\n\nCervical dilation (or cervical dilatation) is the opening of the cervix, the entrance to the uterus, during childbirth, miscarriage, induced abortion, or gynecological surgery. Cervical dilation may occur naturally, or may be induced by surgical or medical means.\n\nIn the later stages of pregnancy, the cervix may already have opened up to 1–3 cm (or more in rarer circumstances), but during labor, repeated uterine contractions lead to further widening of the cervix to about 6 centimeters. From that point, pressure from the presenting part (head in vertex births or bottom in breech births), along with uterine contractions, will dilate the cervix to 10 centimeters, which is \"complete.\" Cervical dilation is accompanied by effacement, the thinning of the cervix.\n\nGeneral guidelines for cervical dilation:\n\nDuring pregnancy, the os (opening) of the cervix is blocked by a thick plug of mucus to prevent bacteria from entering the uterus. During dilation, this plug is loosened. It may come out as one piece, or as thick mucus discharge from the vagina. When this occurs, it is an indication that the cervix is beginning to dilate, although not all women will notice this mucus plug being released.\n\nBloody show is another indication that the cervix is dilating. Bloody show usually comes along with the mucus plug, and may continue throughout labor, making the mucus tinged pink, red or brown. Fresh, red blood is usually not associated with dilation, but rather serious complications such as placental abruption, or placenta previa. Red blood in small quantities often also follows an exam.\n\nThe pain experienced during dilation is similar to that of menstruation (although markedly more intense), as period pains are thought to be due to the passing of endometrium through the cervix. Most of the pain during labor is caused by the uterus contracting to dilate the cervix.\n\nProstaglandins (P2 and PGE2) contribute to cervical ripening and dilation. The body produces these hormones naturally. Sometimes prostaglandins in synthesized forms are applied directly to the cervix to induce labor. In women who have had a previous cesarean section, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists issued a bulletin that misoprostol never be used for this purpose. ACOG's findings conclude that the collagen softening properties of misoprostol could be absorbed through the cervix and vaginal vault up into the low transverse scar of a typical cesarean section, and significantly increase the risk of uterine rupture. Prostaglandins are also present in human semen, and sexual intercourse is commonly recommended for promoting the onset of labor, although the limited data available makes the effectiveness of this method uncertain.\n\nOther means of natural cervical ripening include nipple stimulation, which produces oxytocin, a hormone which is necessary for uterine contractions. Nipple stimulation can be performed manually, by use of a breast pump, or by suckling. Henci Goer, in her comprehensive book, The Thinking Woman's Guide to a Better Birth, details how this practice was researched in two separate studies of 100 and 200 women in the mid nineteen-eighties. Women were assigned randomly to two groups. In one group, nipples were stimulated for one-hour sessions, three times per day. In the other group, women were to avoid any form of nipple stimulation or sexual intercourse. The researchers concluded in both studies that nipple stimulation could indeed ripen the cervix and in some cases induce uterine contractions. Goer further notes that in the smaller study, an external fetal monitor was used, and no uterine hyperstimulation was noted.\n\nCervical dilation may be induced mechanically by placing devices inside the cervix that will expand while in place. A balloon catheter may be used. Other products include laminaria stick (made of dried seaweed) or synthetic hygroscopic materials, which expand when placed in a moist environment.\n\nIn hysteroscopy, the diameter of the hysteroscope is generally too large to conveniently pass the cervix directly, thereby necessitating cervical dilation to be performed prior to insertion. Cervical dilation can be performed by temporarily stretching the cervix with a series of \"(cervical) dilators\" of increasing diameter. Misoprostol prior to hysteroscopy for cervical dilation appears to facilitate an easier and uncomplicated procedure only in premenopausal women.\n"}
{"id": "27890702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27890702", "title": "Complementary holism", "text": "Complementary holism\n\nComplementary holism is a social theory or conceptual framework proposed by Michael Albert and Robin Hahnel, that sees all societies as consisting of a Human Center and Institutional Boundaries, and that all social relations in the political, economic, community/cultural and kinship \"spheres\" as mutually interacting to defining our social experiences. Complementary holism does not rest on an \"a priori\" assumption that a particular sphere is the base and all else is superstructure, as historical materialism does, but rather that we must take an empirical look at society's development and assess how it has been shaped by all social forces. Complementary holists agree with Marxists that economics is important to human and social development, just as they do with anarchists in regard to the State or with feminists in regard to gender inequality, but they assert that Marxists see economics, or class conflict, as the sole factor, and they don't believe that economics is always the most important factor.\n\nIn \"Liberating Theory\", Michael Albert, Robin Hahnel et al. write that:\n\nJust as Marx and Engels paid strict attention to \"state of the art\" science in their time, we should keep up with contemporary developments. Ironically, however, though most contemporary Marxists pride themselves on being \"scientific,\" few bother to notice that \"state of the art\" science has changed dramatically in the last hundred years. While avoiding simplistic mimicry and misapplication of scientific principles, we should update our methods by seriously examining contemporary science for new ideas relevant to our theoretical efforts.<br><br><br>\n\nModern quantum physics, for example, teaches that reality is not a collection of separate entities but a vast and intricate \"unbroken whole.\" Ilya Prigogine comments, \"The new paradigms of science may be expected to develop into the new science of connectedness which means the recognition of unity in diversity.\" When thinking about phenomena, we inevitably conceptually abstract parts from the whole in which they reside, but they then exist as separate entities only in our perceptions. There are no isolated electrons, for example, only fields of force continually ebbing and flowing in a seamless web of activity which manifests events that we choose to call electrons because it suits our analytic purposes. For the physicist, each electron, quark, or whatever is a \"process\" and a \"network.\" As a process it has a developmental trajectory--extending through all time. As a network, it is part of an interactive pattern--stretching throughout all space. Every part embodies and is subsumed in a larger whole.\n\nEach society has a human center where we find people, their consciousness, personalities, talents and needs. Each society also has an institutional boundary consisting of social institutions and their role structures. Just as our consciousnesses, needs and desires are shaped by the institutions we create to facilitate our social activities so are our institutions shaped by our cultural traditions. How we define our institutions and the roles we play in society has an important effect on what kind of people we become.\n\nSociety's center and boundary are \"complementary\" aspects of a single unbroken whole. Both center and boundary are complex dissipative systems. Whatever society's defining features may be, they will necessarily pervade both society's center and boundary. They will persist through evolutionary changes since such changes necessarily involve limited adaptations of both center and boundary. Revolution, however, will alter these defining features. Since we know that historically people universally engage in certain social activities, which in turn involve social relations contouring daily life and governing group interactions, as our next conceptual step it makes sense to subdivide society along lines highlighting these activities, social relations, and social groups. (\"Liberating Theory\")\n\nComplementary holism carves out the Human Center and Institutional Boundary into four separate but interconnecting social spheres: the Economic Sphere, the Kinship Sphere, the Community Sphere and the Political Sphere.\n\n\nLike the human center and institutional boundary, these four spheres interconnect with one another:\n\nPeople aren't economically-affected in one part of their lives and gender-affected in another; state-influenced one day of the week and community-influenced some other day. Instead, they simultaneously experience economic, kinship, governance, and community involvements, and this guarantees that spheres interact. At a particular time class may have more influence on molding a person's consciousness and behavior than gender, or vice-versa. But these influences must co-exist. \"(Liberating Theory)\"\n\nAccommodation describes a particular way in which the four spheres interact with each other. The assigned roles that are a feature of one sphere may be accommodated in another. How our roles are divided in the workplace may accommodate with sexist and racist divisions found as central features in our Kinship and Community Spheres so that economic activity subjugates women and non-whites to lower pay and positions of power than men and whites.\n\nAnother way the four spheres can interact is by co-defining each other. For example, workplace roles are often determined by more than \"class divisions.\"\n\nThere is nothing inherent in capitalist economic relations that requires the activity of coffee-making to be assigned to the role of secretary. There is no purely economic reason why in the U.S., women are ghettoized into so-called \"pink collar\" jobs: clerical work, nursing, domestic work, restaurant and food service, retail sales, elementary school teaching, etc. There is nothing about economics that requires that in addition to different levels of compensation, women's and men's activities must or even should involve different degrees of oversight and mobility. Purely economic dynamics cannot explain such profound gender differentiations. In this sense, then, not only do economic relations accommodate kinship hierarchies, by placing women in the lowest \"economicallydefined\" positions, but patriarchy \"co-defines\" basic economic relations. (\"Liberating Theory\")\n\nProponents of complementary holism feel the social theory is not only helpful in understanding society as it is but in understanding how society can be changed. By recognizing the interconnecting social forces - the human center, institutional boundary and four social spheres - and how they shape and are shaped by the intertwining relationship with each other, complementary holists feel we are better equipped to transform society and overcome social oppressions.\n\nComplementary holism sees two ways in which societies can change:\n\n\n\nAlbert, Michael et al. Liberating Theory. South End Press. 1986<br>\nHahnel, Robin. The ABC's of Political Economy; A Modern Approach. Pluto Press. 2003: https://web.archive.org/web/20091113152511/http://zinelibrary.info/abcs-political-economy-robin-hahnel<br>\nSpannos, Chris. Introduction to Totality and Complementary Holism. Znet. 2008: http://www.zcommunications.org/introduction-to-totality-and-complementary-holism-by-chris-spannos-1\n"}
{"id": "16880965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16880965", "title": "Darren Sutherland", "text": "Darren Sutherland\n\nDarren John Sutherland (18 April 1982 – 14 September 2009) was an Irish professional boxer from Mulhuddart, Dublin. His amateur career was crowned by a 2008 Olympic bronze medal.\n\nSutherland was born in Dublin to Linda from Finglas and Anthony Sutherland from Saint Vincent in the West Indies. The family lived in London till Darren was 7 and then in Saint Vincent for four years, before returning to Dublin and latterly Navan, County Meath.\n\nSutherland represented the St Saviour's ABC in Dublin and won the Leinster senior title in 2005, 2006 and 2007. He faced Edward Healy in the 2006 and 2007 Final and Darren O'Neill in 2008 winning all three. Sutherland's international career featured a great rivalry with Britain's James Degale, who later paid tribute to Sutherland upon winning his first professional world title in 2015.\n\nAt the 2007 EU Amateur Championships in Dublin, Sutherland won gold at middleweight. Results were:\n\n\nAt the 2008 EU Amateur Championships in Cetniewo, Sutherland won gold at middleweight. Results were:\n\n\nAt the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, Sutherland won bronze at middleweight. Results were:\n\n\nFollowing the exposure gained at the Olympics, Sutherland was offered a number of contracts as a professional boxer. In October 2008 he signed terms with London-based promoter Frank Maloney. On 18 December 2008, Sutherland made a winning start to his professional career with a first round knockout of Georgi Iliev in Dublin. After the bout, Sutherland's promoter Frank Maloney said \"I think we've found a real superstar here tonight and this is just the start of a long journey\". His next fight, against Siarhei Navarka on 6 March at Robin Park Arena in Wigan, ended with Sutherland winning by a third round stoppage.\n\nSutherland won his third fight at the Fenton Manor Sports Complex in Stoke-on-Trent on 29 May against Vepkhia Tchilaia. Sutherland won his next fight against Gennadiy Rasalev in York Hall, London.\n\nOn 14 September 2009, Sutherland was found dead with his wrists bound at his apartment in Bromley by his promoter, Frank Maloney. It was alleged he died by hanging himself. He suffered from depression. Olympic gold medalist, James DeGale commented on the death stating: \"It is very, very sad news - I just can't believe it, It is a tragedy. First and foremost, my heart goes out to his family. I just could not believe it; my heart went to the floor when I heard. He was a big part of my Olympic medal journey and it is just terrible. I just do not know what to say except that he was a brilliant fighter, in fact an excellent fighter, and he was a gentleman outside the ring as well. He had an Olympic bronze medal and his whole life to look forward to. He had a great future, and my heart goes out to everyone who knew him.\" At the time, he was dating Irish model Hazel O'Sullivan.\n\nHe was exhumed in September 2010 for a further private postmortem at the request of his family. An open verdict was delivered at the inquest in March 2012.\n\nFollowing Sutherland's death, James DeGale kept the initials 'DS' on his shorts in professional bouts. When he won the IBF super middleweight world title against Andre Dirrell in 2015, he spoke post-fight of his relationship with Sutherland and dedicated the victory to him. \"It's for Darren Sutherland as well, of course. My late rival\" he said. \"When he took his life back in 2009 it was horrendous. From when he passed, I've always had 'DS' on my shorts. And this world title is for him as well. A great guy. A great fighter. Unbelievable fighter. We've had some great, great scraps. It's for him.\"\n"}
{"id": "315873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315873", "title": "Doctor Octopus", "text": "Doctor Octopus\n\nDoctor Octopus (Otto Octavius) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. A highly intelligent mad scientist, Doctor Octopus is typically portrayed as a stocky, myopic man who utilizes four powerful, mechanical appendages, and is obsessed with proving his own genius and destroying the superhero Spider-Man.\n\nThe character has appeared in numerous Spider-Man cartoons and video games, and is portrayed by Alfred Molina in the 2004 film \"Spider-Man 2\". In 2009, Doctor Octopus was ranked as IGN's 28th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time. His first brief appearance as the Superior Spider-Man was in \"Daredevil\" vol. 3 #21 (December 2012) and his first full appearance of the same character was in \"Avenging Spider-Man\" #15.1 (Dec. 2012). Comics journalist and historian Mike Conroy writes of the character: \"Created by Stan Lee and artist Steve Ditko, Doc Ock, as he became known, has become one of the web slinger's most persistent and dangerous foes.\" IGN rated him as the greatest enemy of Spider-Man. Though historically portrayed as a supervillain, some depictions of him in the 2000s have indicated him to harbor more noble and honorable character traits, including those seen in the film \"Spider-Man 2\", and in the \"Superior Spider-Man\" comics series.\n\nThe character of Doctor Octopus first appeared in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #3 (July 1963), and was created by writer Stan Lee and artist Steve Ditko. Lee recounted: \"usually in creating a villain the first thing I would think of was a name, and then I would try to think of, 'Well, now that I've got the name, who's the character going to be and what will he do?' For some reason, I thought of an octopus. I thought, 'I want to call somebody Octopus. And I want him to have a couple of extra arms just for fun.' But I had to figure out how to do that.\" The character soon appeared in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #11-12, and again in #31-33.\n\nDoctor Octopus is regarded as one of Spider-Man's most infamous enemies. He has been cited as the man Peter might have become if he had not been raised with a sense of responsibility. He is infamous for defeating him the first time in battle and for almost marrying Peter's Aunt May. He is the core leader of the Sinister Six and has also referred himself as the \"Master Planner\". (\"If This Be My Destiny...!\") Later depictions revealed him in Peter Parker's body where he was the titular character from 2013-2014. In 2018 it was announced that he would return as Superior Spider-Man again in a series written by Christos Gage and illustrated by Mike Hawthorne.\n\nBorn in Schenectady, New York, Otto Octavius had a turbulent upbringing. His father Torbert Octavius, a factory worker, was abusive and violent towards both Otto and his mother Mary Octavius. Young Otto's shyness and good work in school got him labeled as a \"teacher's pet\" and targeted as a subject for bullying. Torbert did not appreciate having a bullied son, and roared at Otto to use violence in dealing with the bullies. Mary Octavius would defend her son from Torbert's tirades, saying Otto was a gifted thinker who would use his brain to solve problems, not his fists. Due to his mother's insistence and her disgust towards men who worked in manual labor, Otto was determined not to become like his father and threw all his efforts into his education, regularly scoring top marks. Otto's devotion to study paid off with him being awarded a university scholarship. During Otto's freshman year of college, his father's death due to an industrial accident pushed Otto towards the study of, and obsession with, physical science. After graduating from college, Otto found work in an engineering firm.\n\nOtto became a brilliant and respected nuclear physicist, atomic research consultant, inventor, and lecturer. He designed a set of highly advanced mechanical arms controlled via a brain–computer interface to assist him with his research into atomic physics. The tentacle arms were resistant to radiation and were capable of great strength and highly precise movement, attached to a harness that fit around his body. Later in his criminal career, he claimed the inspiration for the device came from The Vitruvian Man, the famous pencil sketch by Leonardo da Vinci, one of his idols.\n\nThough his relationship with co-workers was typically hostile, a fellow researcher named Mary Alice Anders befriended him when Otto impressed her with a demonstration of his harness, and the two began a courtship. In due time, Otto proposed marriage to Mary Alice. However, Otto's mother did not approve, believing that no woman was good enough for her son. To please her, he ended his engagement. Later, when he discovered that his mother had begun dating a librarian, he rebuked her, causing her to have a fatal heart attack in the heat of their argument. With the death of his mother and Mary Alice Anders out of his life, Octavius' disposition towards nearly everyone became mean-spirited, and he had become more distracted from paying attention to detail and safety precautions in his work. His co-workers often called him \"Dr. Octopus\" behind his back, a pun on his actual name inspired by the four-armed apparatus; he was aware of this insult, but he barely cared.\n\nDuring an accidental radiation leak that ended in an explosion, the apparatus became fused to Otto Octavius's body. It was later revealed that the radiation (or possibly his own latent mutation) had mutated his brain so that he could control the movement of the arms using his thoughts alone. The tentacles have since been surgically removed from his body, although Octavius retains the power to control them telepathically from a great distance. The accident also seemingly damaged his brain (although it was later suggested that what was interpreted as brain damage was in fact his mind rewiring itself to accommodate four extra limbs), and the scientist turned to a life of crime, first taking the hospital hostage and calling himself \"Dr. Octopus\" from the derogatory name that his co-workers had given him. Though Doctor Octopus himself is portly, in poor physical shape, and is near-sighted, with his harness attached he is physically more than a match for Spider-Man. The accident also made his eyes very sensitive to light, requiring him to wear glasses with shaded lenses.\n\nIn their first encounter, Doctor Octopus defeated Spider-Man, tossing him out of a window. Following this defeat, Spider-Man considered giving up his heroic career, but was inspired to continue by the Human Torch, and ultimately defeated Doctor Octopus.\n\nOver the years, Dr. Octopus has become one of the most identifiable members of Spider-Man's rogues gallery. Doctor Octopus formed the original Sinister Six to fight Spider-Man after taking Betty Brant and May Parker hostage. He has led subsequent Sinister Six groups, and usually takes offense when someone else leads the team. Disguised as the Master Planner, he organized a theft of atomic equipment. After he stole a formula that Spider-Man needed to cure his Aunt May, Spider-Man tracked Doctor Octopus' gang to their base. In the ensuing fight, Spider-Man became trapped underneath a collapsed building. Seemingly doomed, Spider-Man was ultimately able to draw upon sheer force of will to summon the strength to escape. It is later revealed he used a scuba tank to escape.\n\nDoctor Octopus later attempts to steal the Defense Department's Nullifier device, and sets a trap for Spider-Man. He became May Parker's tenant, then got close enough to use the Nullifier on Spider-Man; although he had hoped that it would merely nullify Spider-Man's web-shooters, the radiation in Spider-Man's blood resulted in the Nullifier's interaction with Spider-Man's unique biology rendering him amnesiac, Doctor Octopus subsequently tricking Spider-Man into helping him before Spider-Man's own better nature resulted in him turning against his 'partner' despite his memory loss long enough for John Jameson to use the Nullifier to shut down his tentacles.\n\nDoctor Octopus later exhibited the ability to activate his mechanical arms remotely, and used them to free himself from prison. His resulting battle with Spider-Man resulted in Captain George Stacy's death. Doctor Octopus later waged a gang war with Hammerhead. He attempted to wed May Parker in order to acquire an island with an atomic plant which she had recently unknowingly inherited. Doctor Octopus escaped death when the island was destroyed, and began a life as a homeless person. He next battled the \"ghost\" of Hammerhead, and was able to return him to human form and defeat him after a temporary alliance with Spider-Man.\n\nDoctor Octopus later attempted to hijack an atomic submarine. He also attempted to poison New York City with printers' ink, and battled the Punisher and Spider-Man. He next battled the Owl and his gang. He successfully deactivated a nuclear reactor in a laboratory before meltdown. He later displayed symptoms which Mister Fantastic diagnosed as multiple personality disorder. Doctor Octopus was taken to the Beyonder's Battleworld, where he fought a horde of heroes and plotted against Doctor Doom for leadership of the group of villains. He was able to defeat the X-Men until Magneto came to the mutants' aid.\n\nHis crowning achievement of evil was the near-fatal beating of the Black Cat (Spider-Man's then-partner) which led to Spider-Man beating Doctor Octopus to within an inch of his life. The trauma of the beating he received from Spider-Man left Otto Octavius afraid of Spider-Man and spiders in general for years, and he needed to be treated for his acute arachnophobia. Spider-Man was forced to let his nemesis beat him in combat so as to allow Octavius to break free of his fears and recruit him to save New York City from an exploding nuclear reactor; Octavius had been planning to detonate the reactor to kill Spider-Man indirectly, but after his out-of-control arms beat Spider-Man seemingly senseless, Spider-Man convinced him to shut down the reactor to ensure that there were witnesses to his 'great triumph'. Octavius decided to let Spider-Man live on the grounds that he would now have to cope with the same humiliation he had endured.\n\nDuring the Clone Saga, Doctor Octopus saved Spider-Man from certain death from a poison injected by the Vulture, although this was only because he desired to be the one to kill Spider-Man. During the healing process he discovered Spider-Man's identity and then allowed himself to be taken in by police, expecting to be saved by his accomplice/lover Stunner. However, Stunner was knocked out and Doctor Octopus was murdered by the insane clone Kaine. Carolyn Trainer took over as \"Doctor Octopus\" until her teacher was resurrected by a branch of the mystical ninja cult known as the Hand. Upon his resurrection, it was revealed that he had no knowledge of Spider-Man's identity, as the memories he gained came from a computer chip provided by Carolyn Trainer, and the memory of Spider-Man's identity had not been recorded at the time of his death.\n\nIn later years, Otto Octavius attempted to create his own personal assassin in the form of a villainous mutated entity he dubbed \"Spider-Woman\". He has also had to deal with another usurper, in the form of arrogant young businessman and con artist Carlyle, who pretended to employ Octavius at his company. Tiring of his life of crime and wishing to return to an engineering career, Octavius accepted the employment offer. This proved to be a ruse, and Carlyle subdued Doctor Octopus and stole his technology, using it to create his own version of Octavius' harness. During a prolonged battle with Octavius and Spider-Man, Carlyle was defeated when Doctor Octopus ripped open his suit, allowing Spider-Man to fill Carlyle's suit with webbing, although Doctor Octopus informed his enemy that he only did this to hurt Carlyle rather than to help Spider-Man.\n\nThen, Dr. Octopus took the ambassador of the newly formed Free Palestinian State hostage, demanding that in exchange for the ambassador's freedom, Spider-Man would meet him in Times Square and unmask himself in front of the world. When Spider-Man went to Times Square, he pulled off his mask to reveal another mask, angering Octavius enough to distract him from the release of the ambassador by agents of the Israeli Secret Service.\n\nDr. Octopus was taken to Ryker's Island and was drugged and brainwashed to take down the Green Goblin. He interrupted a battle between Spider-Man and Green Goblin on the Brooklyn Bridge, and the two villains were struck by lightning and fell into the river below. Octopus was dragged out days later with no memories of the event.\n\nWhile hiding in a plant that was owned by the villain Fusion, Octavius was apparently forced to work for Fusion in helping him recover the 'John Hancock' satellite, once used to find nuclear weapons but now capable of finding potentially radioactive superhumans such as the Hulk or Spider-Man. Although Fusion had apparently forced Octavius into submission, Octavius eventually revealed that he had merely been faking his submission so that Fusion could do all the hard work of finding the satellite for Octavius to sell off, subsequently beating Fusion half to death and attempting to sell the satellite himself before he was caught and defeated by Spider-Man.\n\nOctavius unsuccessfully tried to form and lead another version of the Sinister Six, because Captain America's Secret Avengers managed to defeat the villainous group, although Doctor Octopus himself eluded authorities. In \"Sensational Spider-Man\" #28, Dr. Octopus is seen viewing a telecast of Peter Parker revealing himself to be Spider-Man. Doctor Octopus then goes rampaging throughout the city, in utter disbelief that not only was he beaten numerous times by a teenager, but of the lost opportunity he had when he unmasked Parker in one of their first encounters (at the time, Peter was severely weakened by a bad case of flu and Octavius assumed he was an impostor). He is again defeated by Spider-Man, who confronts Dr. Octopus unmasked, after two of Peter's students distract Octavius. He is then sent to Baron Zemo's supervillain detention facility (as seen in \"Thunderbolts\" #104 and \"Iron Man\" Vol IV #14). , Spider-Man contacts Octavius to see if he can help with Aunt May's condition.\n\nWhen Doctor Octopus learns that he is dying due to the years of punishment his body took in his villainous career, facing superhuman foes when he is fundamentally human once getting past the tentacles, he becomes increasily despondent and brazen in his final plans. Intending to leave a lasting legacy, he attempts to exert control over New York City by using his newly minted Octobots, but while he consciously intends to help, his subconscious drives him to turn the city's resources against Spider-Man, and he also targets aggressively May Parker (guilty of being due to marry J. Jonah Jameson's father J. Jonah Jameson, Sr.), subtly disrupting the planned marriage. Spider-Man is eventually able to take control of Octavius's planned network, forcing Octavius to flee while vowing revenge.\n\nIn his desperate attempts to prolong his life, Otto Octavius reforms the Sinister Six, wishing to acquire Menace's unborn son, hoping to synthesize a pure strain of the Goblin Serum, only to be thwarted again by the efforts of Spider-Man and the guilty conscience of the Lizard, reigniting his bitterness towards his foe, but gaining a grudging acknowledgment of his abilities. Octavius and Spider-Man keep crossing their ways during the following months, with the Avengers fighting a new iteration of the Sinister Six, Doctor Octopus sending a remote Octobot in John Jameson's shuttle, and Octavius contacting Iron Man to force him to find a cure for his degenerative condition. However, when Iron Man genuinely offers to have the brightest minds in the Marvel Universe find a viable cure, Octavius smugly refuses, in favour of witnessing Stark admit that he can't do it and beg for mercy to disarm a device that Octavius had claimed was a bomb, basking in this \"proof\" of his, supposedly, superior intellect.\n\nHis attempts to prolong his life, however, does not hinder a more vast sinister plan in which he has the Sinister Six fighting the Avengers Academy for a piece of Hank Pym's technology, the Future Foundation for a piece of Reed Richard's tech and the Intelligencia for the \"Zero Cannon\", a powerful antigravity weapon, later revealing to have gained something useful from his early foray in John Jameson's shuttle. All this careful preparation came to fruition during the \"Ends of the Earth\" storyline, where the apparently mismatched pieces of technology stolen are used to build a satellite net, the \"Octavian Lens\", able to alter the world's climate by enhancing or smothering solar rays.\n\nDoctor Octopus at first claims to have a benevolent intent, wishing to halt the greenhouse effect in exchange for gratitude and recognition, but he's soon exposed by Spider-Man (having enhanced himself with new Horizon Labs-built tech), Black Widow and Silver Sable, who provoke him into revealing his real plan: immolate a great part of the entire population, to prevent anyone from surviving his impending death, having the survivors remember him in perpetual fear and awe. Playing over his ego, Spider-Man manages to stall him, by reminding him that, even if anyone managed to survive a drastic heating of the entire Earth, the survivors would likely be brain-damaged, and as such unable to remember his actions. Spider-Man then roughly defeats him, in retaliation for Silver Sable's death, openly mocking and berating his efforts by claiming that, because of the Octavian Lens' destruction and his declining health, he's now going to die alone, forgotten and without a legacy.\n\nEven captivity and incarceration are unable to stop Otto Octavius. Since Spider-Man was forced to access the Octobots' hive mind several times in previous months, he unwittingly gave Octavius a full, unrestricted access to his mind and as such he becomes able to program a lone Octobot to swap their mind pattern. Octavius is now in Peter Parker's body and able to access his foe's memories but with none of his restraints content of living his civilian life and planning for his future while his foe is now trapped in Octavius' failing body.\nPeter is able to recruit the Scorpion, Hydro-Man and Trapster with the task of keeping him alive and capturing \"Spider-Man\" in an attempt to reverse the mind swap. However, Trapster's portable life support can give Peter only 700 minutes to live. As such, Peter openly antagonizes \"Spider-Man\". While Peter's attempt to reclaim his body fails, he's able to imbue his nemesis with his very memories and values before apparently dying in Octavius' crippled body. Distraught, Octavius (in a sudden surge of empathy for his sworn nemesis) vows to steer himself away from villainy and accepts Peter's dying wish of having a Spider-Man protect New York. Octavius claims that since he now holds the physical might and the good values embodied by Spider-Man but also the boundless ambition and the scientific mindframe of Doctor Octopus, he will surpass the \"Amazing Spider-Man\" becoming a \"Superior Spider-Man\".\n\nWithin Spider-Man's body, Otto Octavius starts his new career as a hero by redesigning his gear and putting his past as a villain behind himself. However, he soon finds himself the target of several villains, such as an Octavius-tech enhanced Stilt-Man, Boomerang, Overdrive, Shocker, Speed Demon, the new female Beetle, and the Living Brain, all of them trying to take over the place left by the seemingly dead Doctor Octopus and his Sinister Six. While they're still no match for the new, more ruthless Spider-Man, his violence and new mannerisms start to tip off several of his close friends and allies, such as the whole Horizon Labs, Daredevil, Wolverine (explicitly forbidden to have Spider-Man's mind telepathically scanned under the threat of legal action in court), Mary Jane Watson, and Carlie Cooper.\n\nDespite his accomplishments, Octavius is revealed to be still haunted by Peter Parker's lingering spirit, unable to reassert control over Spider-Man's shared body, but actively hampering his efforts to stray from Peter's values, and trying to reclaim his body. Despite Peter's lingering influence, Octavius's refusal of Peter's values and perceived screw-ups prompts him to \"rectify\" some mistakes: \"Peter\" enrolls back to college, pursuing actively the PhD Peter denied himself in the past, and breaks the self-imposed \"no-kill rule\" by taking a proactive stance against evildoers and criminals, shooting the villain Massacre even after Massacre appeared to show signs of recovering from the brain damage that motivated his crimes, and violently assaulting Jester and Screwball for a relatively minor insult. These actions prompted the Avengers to confront \"Spider-Man\" about his recent activities, recognizing that their friend would never act in such a manner. When their subsequent analysis confirms that he is still biologically Peter Parker, Octavius explains that he is merely dealing with stress over recent events.\n\nAttempting a mind wipe of all of Peter's memories to destroy the living consciousness completely, Octavius manages to delete the Daily Bugle memory. Realizing Peter would not surrender, Octavius directly engages his foe in Spider-Man's mind. After beating Peter to a pulp by breaking his spirit with the knowledge Peter was willing let a girl named Amy come close to death when Octavius was performing surgery on her with a scanner that would have detected him, Octavius declares his final victory while calling Peter unworthy to be called Spider-Man and believes that he deleted all of Spider-Man's memories. Returning to the real world, Octavius rejoices from his belief that he is free and has achieved victory over Spider-Man. But this erasure has also deprived him of Spider-Man's memories, leaving it more difficult for him to pose as Spider-Man, with some of Peter's friends (such as Carlie, Mary Jane, and J. Jonah Jameson, Sr.) questioning Spider-Man's more brutal approach. While Octavius has developed more detailed resources than Peter possessed as Spider-Man, such as creating a small army of Spider-bots and Spiderling allies to assist him, as well as helping Cyclops trap the body-hopping mutant Malice in a specially-designed containment unit, he continues to resort to more questionable methods, such as killing Alistair Smythe, and blackmailing Jameson into giving him free rein in New York by threatening to expose the fact that Jameson asked him to do this. During a series of confrontations with his former allies in the Sinister Six, he also attempted to brainwash them into becoming his new 'team', resulting in him being forced to join forces with new hero Sun Girl when the Six snapped out of his control and tried to kill him.\n\nOctavius's focus on the larger scale also resulted in him missing the Green Goblin's efforts to establish a new criminal empire, with Green Goblin rescuing criminals who have escaped Spider-Man and recruiting them into his new gang as Octavius simply focused on the leaders where Peter would have tried to capture the whole gang. His fixation in proving himself Spider-Man's superior reached a particular climax when Spider-Man 2099 came to the past to deal with a temporal anomaly, with Octavius becoming so fixated with solving the problem and keeping his identity secret that he actually attacked the future Spider-Man rather than ask for his help, his actions resulting in the destruction of Horizon Labs because he couldn't solve the vibranium-related equations that Peter was able to resolve. Unknown to Octavius, Peter's memories managed to survive the deletion. When Octavius attempts to access Spider-Man's memories (because Octavius can only view memories that were looked at before the delete), Peter is shown lifting the 'rocks' off himself from the mental battle.\n\nWhen Carlie had found evidence that Doctor Octopus' mind is in Spider-Man's body, she mourns Peter in Doctor Octopus' grave. The grave then collapses and Carlie falls in where she discovers that Doctor Octopus' body is not there. After Carlie has been captured by Menace, the Goblin King receives Carlie's journal from Menace where Goblin King discovers evidence in there that states that Doctor Octopus' mind is in Spider-Man's body.\n\nFollowing him being possessed by the Venom symbiote, Octavius receives unexpected help from Peter Parker's consciousness, though Octavius is still unaware that Peter survived their mental duel. Peter decides to maintain a low profile until Octavius does something that will cause him to spring into action. Peter finds that Octavius's delete has left him with very few memories of his own, but after realizing those he still has are the ones that define him, vows not to give up, and that he will regain control of his body. The Superior Spider-Man finds himself facing the full force of the Goblin Underground since the possession of the Venom symbiote 31 days ago. When the Superior Spider-Man finally confronts the Goblin King, he mentions that he knows about Doctor Octopus' mind-swap with Spider-Man. The Goblin King then makes his next move by having missiles targeted at Spider-Island II.\n\nOctavius survived the bombardment and escaped with The Living Brain. He then tries to find the Goblin King, however before he can do that, Menace takes supporting character Anna Maria Marconi hostage. Meanwhile, the Goblin destroys all the buildings that mean something to Octavius, to punish him for robbing the Goblin of his dream: Killing Spider-Man. Octavius is lured to Empire State University, where he finds Don Lamaze. During the ensuing fight, Lamaze takes a blade meant for Octavius and dies in Superior Spider-Man's arms. Heading to Alchemax, he is confronted by Spider-Man 2099, who takes control of the spider-slayers and demands answers. However, before he gets them, Goblin King reactivates the Slayers to kill the Spiders, stating Norman Osborn now rules New York. Although he manages to escape, Octavius is forced to realize that he has failed in his goal to be a 'Superior' Spider-Man when the restored Peter Parker takes over to save a child from a runaway train where Octavius hesitated, reflecting that he is aware of his fundamental inferiority as he overcompensates while Peter holds himself back but acts when he has to. Octavius then willingly deletes his own consciousness so that Peter can regain control of his body. As Octavius's last memories fade, it is shown he had really fallen in love with Anna Maria, much to Peter's surprise. Octavius tells Peter he's willing to give up his love to keep her safe- something only Peter can do as the \"true\" Superior Spider-Man- and urges the hero to save New York in his place.\n\nIn the run-up to \"Spider-Verse\", Octavius was sent to the year 2099 by accident while dealing with the temporal anomalies caused by Horizon's time portal. Trapped in the future, he attempted to return home by creating a dimensional portal, but found himself travelling to various alternate universes – including one where Spider-Man joined the Fantastic Four and a variation of the House of M – where all the Spider-Men were dead. Realizing that something was hunting Spider-Men across other dimensions, Octavius began to gather some of the more ruthless Spider-Men into a team that could oppose whatever was killing them, including Spider-Man Noir, a multi-armed Spider-Man, , and a Peter Parker working in black ops with Wolverine. As the crisis unfolds, Octavius takes command of a group of alternate Spider-Men, considering himself particularly qualified to lead them due to his unique nature and willingness to kill, but when his team is confronted by another group led by the Peter Parker of Earth-616 – who Octavius presumes is a past Peter as he cannot contemplate the possibility that he will fail- he is forced to concede to Peter's leadership when Peter defeats him in a fight, Peter stating that killing Morlun and the Inheritors is not the answer as they will just come back and they need a new plan. Although he realizes that Peter comes from his future when Peter recognizes Anna Maria's name, Otto is forced to acknowledge his own failures when he learns that another Earth where Ben Parker was the Spider-Totem was reduced to a nuclear wasteland due to the actions of his own local counterpart.\n\nTo stop the Inheritors from traveling around the multiverse, hunting all animal totems as fast as possible, Octavius identified the Master Weaver as the source of their abilities to traverse the multiverse, and killed him. However, Morlun feared the consequences of this action, resulting in Karn, the surviving defected Inheritor, taking the Weaver's place (although it was noted that the Weaver was actually Karn's future self, creating a complex temporal paradox). Having learned that he was 'destined' to be replaced by Peter Parker, Octavius attempted to attack the multiversal web to 'save' himself from his destiny, claiming that he was giving the spiders the 'gift' of free will, but the Earth-616 spiders were able to defeat him as their surviving allies returned to their home dimensions. Before he departed, Octavius issued a time-delayed message to the Anna Maria program, intended to activate 100 days after he returned to his home time, but upon his return to his time, his memory of his time with the Spider-Army is erased, allowing history to unfold as it should.\n\nAs part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\" event, a copy of the consciousness of Doctor Octopus is shown to be in Living Brain where he is still in love with Anna Maria Maraconi. Following the events of Spider-Verse, Otto Octavius had backed up his consciousness in one of his gauntlets (Superior's web shooters) that slept for 100 days using the technology he acquired from 2099. The gauntlet housed a copy of Otto's consciousness up to the point of Spider-Verse (without the memories of learning about power and responsibility for his act of self-sacrifice in Goblin Nation, as this copy would remain asleep during this time). After transforming the gauntlet into a version of an octobot, he backed himself up in the Living Brain while waiting for the next opportunity to take over Parker's body again, planning to act at a time when Parker's spider-sense would be taxed so that he would miss the relevant signals.\n\nAt the time when Living Brain was at Parker Industries' London branch, Doctor Octopus' consciousness expresses anger over being forced to act like their lackey. After Sajani Jaffrey is fired by Peter Parker for conspiring against him, Doctor Octopus' consciousness smirks as Anna is made the head of Parker Industries' London branch.\n\nDuring the \"\" storyline, Peter decides to have Parker Industries get familiar with New U Enterprises' \"New U\" system which is a program where replacement organs are cloned for those suffering from serious injuries. Upon hearing about it from within Living Brain, Doctor Octopus' consciousness expresses an interest in the procedure. When Peter Parker scanned Living Brain to find out why it was acting unusually, Doctor Octopus' consciousness asked why it was erased. Realizing the truth, Peter Parker shut down Living Brain only for Doctor Octopus' consciousness to reactivate Living Brain and cause it to self-destruct while escaping in the Octobot. Arriving at New U Enterprises, the Doctor Octopus-possessed Octobot plans to get his biological body back, convinced that the consciousness in Parker's body was 'infected' by its time in Spider-Man to believe that Peter was superior rather than himself. Upon heading to Potter's Field, the Doctor Octopus-possessed Octobot finds that Doctor Octopus' body was grave robbed alongside Alistair Smythe and other villains. It traces the grave robbery to New U Technologies. Finding Doctor Octopus' body, the Doctor Octopus-possessed Octobot allowed it to be cloned and perfected. After eliminating the copy of Peter Parker's consciousness, Doctor Octopus gains control of the clone body and emerges from the vat where he resembles his earlier appearance. Jackal was present where he presents him with his tentacle pack. Now an ally of Jackal, Doctor Octopus receives the special New U Pills to prevent his body from suffering clone degeneration.\n\nWhen Spider-Man later infiltrates New U Technologies after witnessing video footage of one of its subjects suffering from cellular degeneration, he evades the initial security force including Rhino and the female Electro. When he discovers what appears to be Gwen Stacy, he is distracted long enough to be caught off-guard by the reborn Octavius, once again in his own body with new tentacles. With Spider-Man trapped in his tentacles, Doctor Octopus tells him that he is not a clone or a hologram, but the real Otto Octavius.\n\nAfter Silk escapes from New U Technologies, Doctor Octopus attacks Spectro who was unable to phase through the walls with the test subject. Doctor Octopus and Spectro fight until Electro arrives and knocks out Spectro. Doctor Octopus later experiments with Spectro and plans to put him into a cloned body.\n\nWhile studying the clones of Kaine and Electro in order to perfect the Proto Clone, Anna Maria was brought to Otto and she becomes uncomfortable when Doctor Octopus starts appealing towards his love interest. When Jackal enters the laboratory, Anna Maria reveals she knows how to stop the decaying process on the clones and Jackal offers her the \"Proto Clone\" body in exchange for the formula. Octavius takes offense to Jackal's comments on Maria's dwarfism and attacks his boss. Then he pulls a switch which activates the Carrion Virus in all of the clones and causes them to start rapidly decaying.\n\nDoctor Octopus fights Jackal to allow Peter and Anna Maria the time to transmit the frequency, Spider-Man correctly anticipating that Octavius would act to protect Anna regardless of their own history. The frequency has a huge effect on Doctor Octopus and Jackal. Upon checking New U Technologies' Haven following the broadcast, Spider-Man and Anna Maria Maraconi find that Ben Reilly, Doctor Octopus, and Gwen Stacy have been seemingly reduced to dust. It was later revealed that Doctor Octopus rendered Ben Reilly unconscious and escaped by transmitting his mind into the Proto Clone (a perfect clone of Peter Parker) before Ben Reilly could.\n\nWith his new body, Otto Octavius returns to one of his old bases only to find it is being occupied by Hydra. He defeats the Hydra soldiers, but is then recruited into Hydra by Arnim Zola. Zola grants him the leadership of some Hydra soldiers to work for him in arranging the destruction of Parker Industries. With Hydra's help, he creates a new uniform for himself, being the Superior Octopus, intending to wait for Peter's actions to trigger the collapse of Parker Industries so that he can retake his position and prove himself superior once again.\n\nDuring the 2017 \"Secret Empire\" storyline, Superior Octopus appears as a leader of Hydra's Avengers. Outside of his work with Hydra's Avengers, Superior Octopus approached Spider-Man where he wants him to transfer ownership of Parker Industries back to him. When Peter Parker declined this offer, Superior Octopus had the Hydra Agents in Parker Industries' London branch blow up the building. As Peter flees to the Hong Kong branch of Parker Industries, Octavius attempts to implement various security protocols he had added to all Parker Industries tech that allows him to retake control of anything developed by the company, but Peter turns the tables on Octavius by ordering his employees to literally destroy the company in order to hurt Hydra, thwarting Octavius' attempt to shut down his new high-tech suit with an EMP by reverting to his traditional costume and turning the EMP trick against Octavius so that his own tentacles attack him. Octavius is forced to flee the battle.\n\nDuring the \"Go Down Swinging\" arc where Red Goblin (Norman Osborn who has powered himself up with the Carnage symbiote) attacks Spider-Man and all his friends and family, Superior Octopus and J. Jonah Jameson help defend Aunt May as Superior Octopus still retains some of Peter's memories and sense of responsibility. This concludes with Peter forgiving Superior Octopus and giving him a \"clean slate\". In the aftermath of Norman's defeat, Superior Octopus reveals his new identity as Dr. Elliot Tolliver, a person who has just started working at Horizon University. He was seen applying for a job under Max Modell as Anna Maria starts acting suspicious towards Dr. Elliot Tolliver.\n\nDuring the \"Spider-Geddon\" storyline, Superior Octopus is seen fighting the Night Shift. Superior Octopus agrees to spare them more pain in exchange that the Night Shift becomes his agents where he will compensate them from his own funds. They agree to the terms and are ordered to return the stolen items. Superior Octopus leaves advising them never to cross him or they won't live long enough to regret it. After a day at Horizon University and saving some people on the Bay Bridge, Superior Octopus fights Arnim Zola, a bio-duplicate of Gorgon, and some Hydra Agents who seek to repossess his services to rebuild Hydra. Superior Octopus states that he is done with his end of the bargain and attacks them. When the Gorgon bio-duplicate turns Superior Octopus to stone and shatters him, another Superior Octopus body emerges where it destroys the Gorgon bio-duplicate and defeats Arnim Zola while informing him to spread the word to Hydra to never come for him again. Superior Octopus' inner monologue states that he had perfected the Miles Warren's cloning technology where each clone had to be made from the deceased in order to maintain their memories as a way to conquer death. However, after Octavius forces Nefaria into retreating from Los Angeles, he is confronted in his cloning workshop by the Spider-Army, which reveals that his cloning process has been 'hacked' by the Inheritors, who fed his computers hours-old data until they were ready to manifest, with these new Inheritors swiftly killing Noir and Spider-UK. Octavius then quotes \"What have I done...\" After initiating his base's self-destruct sequence to slow down the Inheritors, Superior Octopus states that they still should have killed the Inheritors while they had the chance. Upon heading to his lab at Horizon High to change into his Superior Spider-Man appearance, he goes to recruit Kaine and states that they should leave Ben Reilly out of the fight since Jennix is targeting the cloning technology from the defunct New U Technologies. As Superior Spider-Man and Kaine enter the portal, they are unaware that Ben Reilly has followed them. Superior Spider-Man heads to Earth-1040 to recruit that world's Spider-Man where he helps to defeat Tarantula and learned about his counterpart.\n\nOtto Octavius is a genius in the field of atomic physics, and he holds a Ph. D. in nuclear science. A brilliant engineer and inventor, he is also a superb strategist and a charismatic leader. His genius in radiation is so exceptional that he was once called upon by Mister Fantastic of the Fantastic Four to offer his expertise when the Invisible Woman suffered from complications during her second pregnancy as a result of the cosmic radiation that had given the team their powers.\n\nDue to exposure to atomic radiation, Doctor Octopus has acquired the mental ability of psychokinetic control over the four electrically powered, telescoping, prehensile, titanium-steel artificial tentacle \"arms\" (a degree of psychokinetic control over them that he can also exercise over vast distances even when they are not connected to him) that are attached to a stainless-steel harness encompassing his lower torso. Each of these four arms is capable of lifting several tons, provided that at least one arm is used to support his body. The reaction time and agility of his mechanical appendages are enhanced far beyond the range attainable for normal human musculature. The arms allow Octavius to move rapidly over any terrain and to scale vertical surfaces and ceilings. He has developed his concentration and control to the point that he can engage a single opponent, like Spider Man, or multiple opponents with the arms while performing a completely separate, more delicate task, such as stirring coffee or constructing a machine. Due to his weight and age, his opponents are often lured into a false sense of security, only to find he is a formidable combatant. He has managed to force opponents as formidable as Spider-Man, Daredevil, and Captain America to take up a defensive position in a fight.\n\nDoctor Octopus has also employed an armored body suit enabling him to breathe underwater and designed to withstand extreme water pressure.\n\nDoctor Octopus has begun wearing a full-body armor suit due to a crippling illness caused by the amount of punishment he has sustained over the years, made even worse by the fact that his ability to \"take\" damage is still at a human norm, even if he can deliver a superhuman level of punishment; he relies completely on his arms to prevent opponents with superhuman strength getting in close enough to damage his relatively unfit physical form even before his illness. To compensate, he has covered his entire body with his new suit, his normal arms are bound to his chest, and four additional tentacles have been added to his harness. He has also developed psychokinetic-telepathic control over an army of \"Octobots\" (small octopus-like drones).\n\nDoctor Octopus has possessed a total of three different harnesses during his career: the original titanium harness, a more powerful adamantium harness, and a carbonanium harness with tentacles bearing an octopus-like motif. The original and adamantium harnesses were both destroyed in the \"Lethal Foes of Spider-Man\" miniseries.\n\nHis current harness is made of a titanium-steel-niobium alloy mixture that is dense but light weight in composition. While wearing the harness, the arms are powerful enough to allow him to walk up sheer concrete walls and move about quickly. They are also used to grab items, both small and large, and as literal weapons in terms of being swung at objects and people like clubs. The pincers at the end of each tentacle can also be used to cut and tear into the flesh of his enemies. His sheer power using these appendages was great enough to beat Daredevil, a seasoned combatant with superhuman senses, almost to death.\n\nThe adamantium harness was powerful enough to both restrain and pummel the Hulk into submission during a series written by Erik Larsen. The adamantium in his tentacles made besting Iron Man in combat possible, tearing the hero's armor apart with a defeat so harsh that Tony Stark began to doubt his abilities almost enough to allow his persistent problem with alcohol abuse to flare up. The harness is also capable of holding a small jetpack allowing him to fly to places faster and able to evade Spider-Man more easily. Doctor Octopus is even capable of whirling his tentacles around to deflect small projectiles like bullets.\n\nHaving taken over Spider-Man's body, Otto Octavius gains possession of all of Spider-Man's powers, abilities, memories, and equipment, although he loses access to Spider-Man's memories after apparently removing his foe from their shared mind. As a way to reaffirm his perceived superior mind, he tinkered with the original Spider-Man costume, adding some carbonadium plating over his neck and skull, talons on his hands and feet, split-toed footwear fashioned as jika-tabi shoes, a slightly different, more imposing spider-motif on his back and enhanced lenses in his costume, with HUD and tracking abilities.\n\nHe also retains access to some of his former Doctor Octopus hideouts, coupling Horizon Tech-derived inventions with his own peculiar brand of technology.\n\nThe Octobots are octopus-themed robots that are created by Doctor Octopus. There are two different kinds of Octobots:\n\n\nThe Octobots have at least two known variations:\n\n\nIn his Superior Octopus body, Otto Octavius retains access to Peter Parker's powers while also having a new set of his original tentacles designed to work with this body.\n\nIn the \"Age of Ultron\" reality of Earth-61112 where the evil AI robot Ultron returned to Earth and annihilated humanity and a majority of the world's superheroes, it was revealed that sometime prior to Ultron's conquest, the events of \"Dying Wish\" had still occurred, as Peter Parker is revealed to be Otto Octavius.\n\nIn the \"House of M\" reality created by the Scarlet Witch, Otto Octavius makes an appearance as a researcher for the government where he is seen studying stem cells.\n\nIn the \"Marvel 1602\" universe, a version of Dr. Octopus appears in the \"Spider-Man 1602\" miniseries. Baron Victor Octavius is an Italian nobleman living in France. His attempts to use the blood of octopuses to cure himself of bubonic plague have resulted in his becoming a deformed octopus-like monster, he is also associated with fellow Dr. Curtis Connors, transforming him into The Lizard. A potion derived from the blood of Hal McCoy by the natural philosopher Henri Le Pym keeps him human, but is growing steadily less effective. He believes that the blood of Peter Parquagh might be the basis of a more effective potion. He is later killed by a transformed Le Pym's giant foot.\n\nOn Earth-2149 (a world in which almost all heroes and villains are zombies) an undead Doctor Octopus first appears in the \"Marvel Zombies\" series alongside several other zombie supervillains attempting to kill and devour the invading Galactus; this incarnation of Doctor Octopus is apparently destroyed piecemeal by several cosmically powered hero zombies after he got in the way of an attack they were aiming at the invading Galactus.\n\nIn the prequel series to \"Marvel Zombies\", \"Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness\" and \"Marvel Zombies: Dead Days\", the zombie Doctor Octopus makes only a few cameo appearances, as a member of the undead Sinister Six. Another alternate version appears in \"Marvel Zombies Return\" as a member of the Sinister Six. He was ripped in half and infected by the reality-hopping Zombie Spider-Man. The Doctor's body is then destroyed and devoured by a zombified Spider-Man and then was spit out (because zombie meat tasted terrible to other zombies) after he and the rest of the Sinister Six has devoured Peter's friends.\n\nIn the MC2 alternate continuity, Doctor Octopus attacked the \"Daily Bugle\" shortly after the disappearance/retirement of Spider-Man, killing editor-in-chief Joseph \"Robbie\" Robertson. This motivates \"Bugle\" publisher J. Jonah Jameson to initiate \"Project: Human Fly\", an attempt to create a government controlled superhero. Mercenaries (later revealed to be in the employ of Doctor Octopus) attempt to steal the Human Fly suit, but are thwarted when Jameson's grandson takes the suit (the controls of which bond to the first user) and becomes the superhero The Buzz. The Buzz and Spider-Girl eventually apprehend Doctor Octopus, who—now being struck with cancer—falls into a coma from which he is not expected to recover. Later, the mantle of Doctor Octopus is taken up by Lady Octopus.\n\nIn the \"Spider-Man Noir\" series as part of the \"Marvel Noir\" universe, his name first appears in the \"Daily Bugle\" newspaper as one of the biologists undertaking an oceanic voyage on a research ship named \"The Atlantis'. He appears in person in issue one of the sequel series, \"Eyes Without a Face\". Here, he is a doctor working in a facility on Ellis Island. His legs are crippled and withered, and he travels in a wheelchair with six long metal claw-like tentacles sticking out. He is officially conducting experiments on primates, to study their brains in connection with evolution, and in the end, it is shown he is secretly taking in kidnapped African-Americans for his own more secret experiments. He is later revealed to in fact be working with the Nazis and their American proxies, \"Friends of New Germany\", with the plot of making all minorities into mindless slaves. However, his experiments are uncovered by Spider-Man, and although he is allowed to leave the country due to his past service to America, he is subsequently rejected by the Nazis as they believe his crippled body reflects a crippled mind that could produce nothing of value for them.\n\nIn the \"Spider-Gwen\" reality of Earth-65, Doctor Octopus is the head scientist of S.I.L.K. He engages the 616 version of his boss Cindy Moon with an experimental octopus that attaches to him.\n\nOtto Octavius appears in the \"\" reimagining of Spider-Man's origin. This version of the character was transformed into Doctor Octopus in the same accident that caused a spider to become radioactive, leading to Peter Parker's transformation into Spider-Man.\n\nIn \"\", Dr. Octopus is featured as a minion/meek doctor who is transformed by Nalin Oberoi into a mystical version of Doctor Octopus to find and kill Pavitr Prabhaker, the Indian version of Spider-Man. He is later killed by Oberoi, while trying to help Spider-Man rescue MJ and Aunt Maya from Oberoi.\n\nIn \"\", as conceived by Kaare Andrews, in which many superheroes had grown old and retired, Octavius appeared to save Spider-Man from death at the hands of an older version of the Sinister Six. While he originally appeared to merely be world-weary, relying on his 'four sons' (his tentacles) to keep him alive, he revealed via monologue that he had in fact been dead for months, and had left the tentacles a program that would force them into action to find Spider-Man. Furthermore, the tentacles were used to play the tape on which his monologue is recorded, and take him to the graveyard where his loved ones lay. The hope is to use Spider-Man to reignite the age of the super powered beings, as both Doctor Octopus and Spider-Man were born from nuclear accidents.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, there had been different versions of Doctor Octopus in different Battleworld domains.\n\n\nA version of Doctor Octopus is a member of the Six Men of Sinestry of the dimension Earth-803, set in Industrial Age New York. Their objective was to steal the mayor's plan, but although they succeeded in the theft, they were forced to retreat after a battle with Lady Spider. In a later confrontation with Lady Spider and Spider-Man 2099, Miguel manages to examine Octopus's equipment and notes that it is powered by a radioactive material with improper shielding, musing that he would be dead of cancer within a year if he kept using the tentacles.\n\nIn a world where Ben Parker was the Spider-Totem, Doctor Octopus attempted to blackmail the world with a stolen nuclear device. Even though the demands were met, something went wrong where most of Earth was reduced to a nuclear wasteland with Ben Parker only surviving because he was hidden in Ezekial's bunker after the deaths of his family at the hands of Emerald Elf drove him to retire.\n\nIn Earth 94, a reality where Ben Reilly was never killed and continued to be Spider-Man, Doctor Octopus was unable to transfer his mind into Spider-Man and died.\n\nAfter various assorted Electros expand out to become a multiverse-conquering army, the lead Electro – a Max Dillon who used his powers to become a major world leader- gathers a variety of alternate Doctor Octopuses to become their 'think tank. When Gwen Stacy and Uncle Ben attempted to free the Octaviuses from the Electros' control, the various villains attacked them, but they found an ally in the form of Octavia Otto, a teenage female Doctor Octopus who was a member of the Young Avengers in her universe, allowing them to devise a means of adapting the Octaviuses' mind-switching technology to disrupt the neural pattern of the leader of the Electro army, who had converted himself into a purely electricity-based life form. Octavia meets with the Superior Octopus when she joins the Spider-Army to warn him about the Inheritors' hi-jacking his cloning technology to escape their prison.\n\nIn the 1976 DC/Marvel intercompany crossover \"Superman vs. the Amazing Spider-Man\", Doctor Octopus forms an alliance with fellow criminal scientist Lex Luthor, in an effort to conquer the world and kill their archenemies—Spider-Man and Superman. However once he realizes that Luthor intends to destroy most of the planet Earth, Octopus betrays Luthor and attempts to stop him, but is defeated (Spider-Man subsequently defeats Luthor, and Superman prevents the East Coast of the United States from being destroyed by a Luthor-created tidal wave).\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel version of Doctor Octopus is younger, more muscular, and wears sunglasses to disguise scars from the accident that fused him to his metal arms. His arms are made of nanobots, and thus can transform into different tools. He initially claims to have a psychic link with his metal arms, demonstrated by controlling them remotely. He later reveals he can manipulate all metal.\n\nDr. Otto Octavius is introduced as a scientist at OsCorp and secretly a corporate spy for Justin Hammer, Norman Osborn's business rival. He is caught in a lab accident that also turns Norman into the Green Goblin. After this accident, his traditional metal arms are grafted onto his body and he is able to communicate with these mechanical arms via telepathy. He modifies his arms to have the power to morph into different shapes, and then seeks revenge against Hammer, but Spider-Man intervenes. Although Octavius is defeated by Spider-Man, Justin perishes due to a heart attack caused by Octavius attacking him. Afterwards, Octavius is brought into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody where he, along with Osborn, form the Ultimate Six, consisting of some of Spider-Man's rogues gallery. There are only five villains to begin with, but Osborn planned to bring Spider-Man into the group. The five attack S.H.I.E.L.D. and capture an unmasked Spider-Man. They tie him to a chair, and Osborn humiliates Peter by recounting the accident that created him, and he and Otto's involvements. Osborn then blackmails Peter Parker into joining them, threatening Mary Jane Watson's life. In a battle between the Six and the Ultimates on the White House lawn, Octopus is taken down by the Wasp. Octavius is separated from his tentacles and held in a different prison far away from them. Octavius later finds out that his ex-wife is giving the rights to use his likeness in the Spider-Man film. Outraged, he summons his tentacles from the S.H.I.E.L.D. facility and goes on a rampage. He manages to capture Spider-Man, and he brings him aboard an airplane, ties him to a chair, and unmasks him. From there, he inflicts humiliation and torture on to Peter, mocking him as a teenager, pulling a tooth out, and webbing his mouth. Peter escaped, and defeats Octavius. Back in S.H.I.E.L.D. custody, Nick Fury melts Doctor Octopus' mechanical arms in front of him and instructs the guards to watch the melting mechanism for at least an hour afterwards to make sure the arms would not try to escape. However, in the \"Ultimate Hobgoblin\" story arc, it was revealed that a spare set of arms existed within a bunker belonging to Osborn. Plans for these remain to be seen.\n\nIn the \"Ultimate Clone Saga\", Otto Octavius was revealed to be responsible for all the Spider-Man clones, including an older clone believing itself to be Richard Parker, and a Gwen Stacy clone that can transform into the Carnage creature. His experimentation and research was done for the FBI/CIA (both organizations are said to be behind it in different issues) in order to find a way to create super soldiers so the U.S. Government wouldn't have to be reliant on Fury's monopoly on the Ultimates. He smugly reveals he is now outside Fury's jurisdiction and takes pleasure in pointing out to Peter that his work perverts the hero's life. In issue #104, he creates a new set of arms out of metal scraps and battles both Spider-Man and Spider-Woman, killing two other clones in the process, before being knocked out.\n\nOctavius makes a brief appearance in \"Ultimate Spider-Man\" #113 confronting Norman Osborn as the latter breaks out of the Triskelion; he attacks his former boss to prevent his escape, informing him that he betrayed him by giving the OZ formula to the FBI. Octavius is beating Osborn senseless until his other former ally Electro intervenes and shocks Octavius with a bolt of electricity, knocking him out.\n\nDuring the \"Ultimate Mystery\", Doctor Octopus appears as a member of Roxxon's Brain Trust.\n\nAlongside the rest of the Ultimate Six, Otto Octavius plays a role in the \"Death of Spider-Man\" storyline. Norman Osborn breaks him and the rest out of the Triskelion. After their escape, Osborn informs them that God wishes for them to kill Peter Parker. Octavius wanted to leave the group, because he wanted to live a normal life as a scientist and also said that he took enough pride in helping create Spider-Man. Osborn was outraged by the fact that Octavius tried to share credit for Spider-Man's existence and attacked him. The two of them fought which ended with Osborn pummeling Octavius to death.\n\n\nAlfred Molina portrayed Otto Octavius / Doctor Octopus in the 2004 feature film \"Spider-Man 2\". This version is depicted as a sympathetic, misguided character and husband to Rosalie Octavius (portrayed by Donna Murphy). He first meets Peter Parker when Curt Connors recommends visiting him, lecturing Peter that all the talent in the world is useless without effort. A disastrous Oscorp-funded experiment with tritium that Octavius uses his four-armed harness to control results in Rosalie's death and the fusion of the harness to Octavius's body. The arms have artificial intelligence that first attack those who attempt to remove them, then later influence Octavius into becoming a criminal. He comes into conflict with Spider-Man when he resorts to bank robbery in order to continue financing his experiments. He eventually kidnaps Mary Jane Watson as a hostage in an abandoned pier warehouse where he makes another attempt to harness energy from tritium, not caring that it will destroy half of the city. When Spider-Man arrives, they battle again, resulting in Doctor Octopus's arms being damaged. After Peter willingly reveals his identity, he reminds Octavius of the latter's own words on how intelligence should be used for the good of mankind, causing Otto's original personality to overpower the A.I. of the arms. He ultimately sacrifices himself to destroy the tritium reactor by pulling it with him into the river as it explodes.\n\nDoctor Octopus appears in many Spider-Man computer games and video games:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47781770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47781770", "title": "Edmond Brossard", "text": "Edmond Brossard\n\nEdmond Brossard was a French runner who competed at the 1920 Summer Olympics. He finished fourth and fifth in the 3000 m and cross-country team events, respectively, and failed to reach the final of the 3000 m steeplechase event.\n"}
{"id": "1166782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166782", "title": "Embryonic diapause", "text": "Embryonic diapause\n\nDelayed implantation or embryonic diapause is a reproductive strategy used by approximately 100 different mammals in seven or eight different orders. In embryonic diapause, the embryo (blastocyst) does not immediately implant in the uterus after sexual reproduction has created the zygote, but is maintained in a state of dormancy. Little to no development takes place while the embryo remains unattached to the uterine wall. As a result, the normal gestation period is extended for a species-specific time.\nWhile much of the molecular regulation involved in activating dormant blastocysts has been characterized, little is still known about entry into diapause, and the conditions which enable a blastocyst to remain dormant.\n\nSome mammals that undergo embryonic diapause include rodents, bears, mustelids (e.g. weasels and badgers), and marsupials, (e.g. kangaroos). Some groups only have one species that undergoes embryonic diapause, such as the roe deer in the order Artiodactyla.\n\nMammals may undergo diapause to avoid the risk to their own lives during unfavourable and/or environmental conditions. \nMammals use embryonic diapause to time the birth of their offspring for favorable metabolic and/or environmental conditions. Reproduction has a large energy cost and it is beneficial to have ideal conditions (e.g. available food, mild weather, previous offspring weaned) to ensure the offspring survives before giving birth.\n\nTwo types of mammalian embryonic diapause have been identified.\n\nFacultative diapause is also known as lactational delayed implantation due to its regulation via lactation. If a female copulates while still lactating for a previous litter, the suckling stimulus will cause the embryos to enter into diapause. This is known to occur in some rodents, insectivores and marsupials.\n\nObligate diapause is also known as seasonal delayed implantation and is a mechanism that allows mammals to time the birth of their offspring for favorable environmental conditions. This mechanism occurs as a regular part of the reproductive cycle in mammals such as armadillos, all species of pinniped, many mustelids, all ursids, one species of fruit bat, and the roe deer.\n"}
{"id": "42298180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42298180", "title": "Erg (tug)", "text": "Erg (tug)\n\nErg was a vessel built and owned by Halifax Steamship Ltd. in 1915. She was used to ferry workers across the harbour to vessels under repair during the Second World War. \"Erg\" was sunk in the Halifax Harbour three times and is currently located in the Bedford Basin.\n\n\"Erg\" was originally a steam tug called \"Sambro\" and was built by the Halifax Shipyard in 1915. She was one of the earliest steel vessels to be built in Halifax. \"Sambro\" was 55 feet long and almost 15 feet wide, with a depth of 7 feet and her maximum tonnage was 28. The tug was originally sunk during the Halifax Explosion of 1917. In 1927, \"Sambro\" was raised out of the harbour and was converted from steam to diesel, being given a 4 horsepower engine. With this change, the tug was given a new name and a new purpose. The vessel was renamed \"Erg\" and was used as a transport tug, ferrying workers and their equipment from the shipyard to vessels under repair.\n\nHalifax Harbour was an extremely busy port during the Second World War. Because of this, navigational dangers increased with the congestion in the harbour. The Naval Service of Canada, which kept records of the activity in the harbour, advised that from 1940 to 1943, there were at least 12 vessels involved in accidents within Halifax Harbour. Vessels such as \"Camperdown\", \"Claire Lilley\" and \"Nueva Indalucia\" ran aground, whereas others such as \"Otter\", and \"Trongate\" caught fire and sank (or, in the case of \"Trongate\", was made to sink as the flames were completely out of control). In 1940, \"Herbidean\" was sunk by the British ship \"Esmond\"; a forerunner to the fate of \"Erg\".\n\nOn June 6, 1943, \"Erg\" was carrying workers and equipment (air compressors and electric generators) through the fog and rain, when she was run down by a Norwegian freighter – a steamship named \"Norelg\" (See Convoy SC 94 for more information on this ship). The tug immediately began sinking and as a result, 19 men lost their lives. On July 19, the Royal Canadian Navy utilized the floating crane \"Lord Kitchener\" to raise the wreck of \"Erg\" so the bodies of the deceased could be recovered. Only 10 bodies were discovered and removed from the wreck. \"Erg\"s sinking was and still is considered one of the worst accidents to have taken place in the Halifax Harbour and is the greatest loss of life in regards to a shipwreck within these waters.\n\nUpon inspection, it was decided that \"Erg\" was beyond repair and on August 24, 1943, she was taken to her final resting place and sunk for the third and final time.\n\nThe \"Erg\" shipwreck site was rediscovered in 2001 in the northern part of the Bedford Basin (near Roach Cove) by the Nova Scotia Exploration Society. The site is a protected heritage site and is visited by many divers. Objects which were recovered from \"Erg\", such as the ships' whistle and portholes are currently on display at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic on Lower Water Street.\n"}
{"id": "460689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460689", "title": "Evolutionary programming", "text": "Evolutionary programming\n\nEvolutionary programming is one of the four major evolutionary algorithm paradigms. It is similar to genetic programming, but the structure of the program to be optimized is fixed, while its numerical parameters are allowed to evolve.\n\nIt was first used by Lawrence J. Fogel in the US in 1960 in order to use simulated evolution as a learning process aiming to generate artificial intelligence. Fogel used finite-state machines as predictors and evolved them.\nCurrently evolutionary programming is a wide evolutionary computing dialect with no fixed structure or (representation), in contrast with some of the other dialects. It is becoming harder to distinguish from evolutionary strategies.\n\nIts main variation operator is mutation; members of the population are viewed as part of a specific species rather than members of the same species therefore each parent generates an offspring, using a (μ + μ) survivor selection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38054376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38054376", "title": "Ezequiel Di Paolo", "text": "Ezequiel Di Paolo\n\nEzequiel A Di Paolo (born in Buenos Aires, 1970) is a full-time Research Professor at Ikerbasque, the Basque Foundation for Science. He also has affiliations with the Centre for Computational Neuroscience and Robotics at the University of Sussex. His field of research covers enactivism and embodiment in cognitive science.\n\nDi Paolo studied Physics at the University of Buenos Aires and obtained a Master of Science degree in Nuclear Engineering from the Balseiro Institute in Argentina. He has a PhD degree in Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence from the University of Sussex.\n\nHis work includes research in embodied cognition, dynamical systems, adaptive behaviour in natural and artificial systems, biological modelling, complex systems, evolutionary robotics, and philosophy of science. His research is in the tradition established by Varela, Thompson and Rosch, which was an early example of the embodied, enactive approach to cognition.\n\nDi Paolo believes that embodiment and enactivism have the potential to increase our understanding in traditional problems of cognition, and advocates that these alternative views should be explored and developed further, rather than being subsumed (or 'watered down') under more traditional frameworks, such as the cartesian dualistic model.\n\nHis promotion and exploration of embodiment and enactivism is carried on through his work in the academic consortium eSMCs, an EU funded project to investigate the role of sensorimotor contingencies in cognition.\n\nAdditionally, he is involved in Centre for LIfe, Mind and Society, a research group spanning complex systems in biology and self-organising systems.\n\nOther areas of his work include social cognition and intersubjectivity. He is involved as principal investigator with the Marie-Curie Initial Training Network TESIS — Towards an Embodied Science of InterSubjectivity.\n\nHe is Editor-in-chief of the interdisciplinary journal \"Adaptive Behavior\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291054", "title": "Francis Heylighen", "text": "Francis Heylighen\n\nFrancis Paul Heylighen (born 1960) is a prominent Belgian cyberneticist investigating the emergence and evolution of intelligent organization. He presently works as a research professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, the Dutch-speaking Free University of Brussels, where he directs the transdisciplinary research group on \"Evolution, Complexity and Cognition\" and the Global Brain Institute. He is best known for his work on the Principia Cybernetica Project, his model of the Internet as a global brain, and his contributions to the theories of memetics and self-organization. He is also known, albeit to a lesser extent, for his work on gifted people and their problems.\n\nFrancis Heylighen was born on September 27, 1960 in Vilvoorde, Belgium. He received his high school education from the \"Koninklijk Atheneum Pitzemburg\" in Mechelen, in the section Latin-Mathematics. He received his MSc in mathematical physics in 1982 from the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), where he also received his PhD Summa cum Laude in Sciences in 1987 for his thesis, published in 1990, as \"Representation and Change. A Metarepresentational Framework for the Foundations of Physical and Cognitive Science.\"\n\nIn 1983 he started working as a researcher for the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research (NFWO). In 1994 he became a tenured researcher at the NFWO and in 2001 a research professor at the VUB. Since 1995 he has been affiliated with the VUB’s Center Leo Apostel for interdisciplinary studies. In 2004 he created the ECCO research group which he presently directs. Thanks to a grant from a private sponsor, in 2012 he additionally founded the Global Brain Institute at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, becoming its first director.\n\nIn 1989 Valentin Turchin and Cliff Joslyn founded the Principia Cybernetica Project, and Heylighen joined a year later. In 1993 he created the project's encyclopedic site, one of the first complex websites in the world. In 1996, Heylighen founded the \"Global Brain Group\", an international discussion forum that provides a working platform for most of the scientists who have worked on the concept of emergent Internet intelligence. Heylighen was also one of the founders and former editor of the Journal of Memetics which ceased publication in 2008.\n\nHeylighen is a Fellow of the World Academy of Art and Science, and a member of the Global Agenda Council on Complex Systems of the World Economic Forum. His biography has been listed since 2002 in Marquis Who's Who in the world. In 2015, he received an \"Outstanding Technology Contribution Award\" from the Web Intelligence Consortium, for his research on the Global Brain.\n\nHis research focuses on the emergence and evolution of complex, intelligent organization. Applications include the origin of life, the development of multicellular organisms, knowledge, culture, and societies, and the impact of information and communication technologies on present and future social evolution.\n\nHeylighen's scientific work covers an extremely wide range of subjects, exemplifying his intellectual curiosity and fundamentally transdisciplinary way of thinking. In addition to the topics mentioned above, his publications cover topics such as the foundations of quantum mechanics, the structure of space-time, hypermedia interfaces, the psychology of self-actualization and happiness, the market mechanism, formality and contextuality in language, causality, the measurement of social progress, the mechanism of stigmergy and its application to the web.\n\nThis broad variety of work is held together by two basic principles. The relational principle notes that phenomena do not exist on their own, but only in relation (connection or distinction) to other phenomena. They thus only make sense as part of an encompassing network or system. The evolutionary principle notes that variation through (re)combination of parts and natural selection of the fitter combinations results in ever more complex and adaptive systems. This principle is a direct application of Universal Darwinism, the idea that Darwinian mechanisms can be extended to virtually all disciplines and problem domains.\n\nThe two principles come together in Heylighen's concept of a distinction dynamics. In his analysis, classical scientific methodology is based on given, unchanging distinctions between elements or states. Therefore, it is intrinsically unable to model creative change. But the evolutionary principle makes distinctions dynamic, explaining the creation and destruction of relations, distinctions and connections, and thus helping us to understand how and why complex organization emerges.\n\nMoreover, any system must be adapted to its environment, which implies that it is able to react adequately to changes in that environment. This is the origin of mind or intelligence, as the system should be able to select the right actions for the given conditions. These \"condition-action\" relations are the basis of knowledge. As systems evolve, their adaptiveness tends to increase, and therefore also their knowledge or intelligence. Thus, the general trend of evolution is self-organization, or a spontaneous increase in intelligent organization.\n\nTogether with Cliff Joslyn and the late Valentin Turchin, Heylighen is a founding editor of the Principia Cybernetica Project, which is devoted to the collaborative development of an evolutionary-systemic philosophy. He created its website, the Principia Cybernetica Web, in 1993, as one of the first complex webs in the world. It is still viewed as one of the most important sites on cybernetics, systems theory and related approaches.\n\nIn 1996, Heylighen founded the \"Global Brain Group\", an international discussion forum that groups most of the scientists who have worked on the concept of emergent Internet intelligence. Together with his PhD student Johan Bollen, Heylighen was the first to propose algorithms that could turn the world-wide web into a self-organizing, learning network that exhibits collective intelligence, i.e. a Global brain.\n\nIn the 2007 article \"The Global Superorganism: an evolutionary-cybernetic model of the emerging network society\" Heylighen gave a detailed exposition of the superorganism/global brain view of society, and an examination of the underlying evolutionary mechanisms, with applications to the ongoing and future developments in a globalizing world. Presently, he is developing a detailed mathematical and simulation model of the global brain, together with his collaborators in the Global Brain Institute.\n\n\nHeylighen has published over 100 papers and a book. A selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "30915054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30915054", "title": "From Dictatorship to Democracy", "text": "From Dictatorship to Democracy\n\nFrom Dictatorship to Democracy, A Conceptual Framework for Liberation is a book-length essay on the generic problem of how to destroy a dictatorship and to prevent the rise of a new one. The book was written in 1993 by Gene Sharp (b. 1928), a professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts. The book has been published in many countries worldwide and translated into more than 30 languages. Editions in many languages are also published by the Albert Einstein Institution of Boston, Massachusetts. its current primary English-language edition is the Fourth United States Edition, published in May 2010.\n\nThe book has been circulated worldwide and cited repeatedly as influencing movements such as the Arab Spring of 2010–2012.\n\n\"From Dictatorship to Democracy\" (\"FDTD\") was written in 1993 at the request of a prominent exiled Burmese democrat, Tin Maung Win, who was then editor of \"Khit Pyaing\" (The New Era Journal), in\nBangkok, Thailand. The book took several months to write as the author drew upon several decades of experience in scholarship on nonviolent action.\n\"FDTD\" was first published in 1993 as installments in Burmese and English in \"Khit Pyaing\". In 1994, it was issued as a booklet in both English and Burmese. Since that time, there have been several additional English-language editions and translations into more than 30 additional languages.\n\n\"From Dictatorship to Democracy\" contains a preface and ten sections. Its first appendix includes 198 \"Methods Of Nonviolent Action\" that were taken from Gene Sharp's \"The Politics of Nonviolent Action\" (1973), Part Two, \"The Methods of Nonviolent Action\". The main sections of the 4th US edition are entitled:\nThree appendices are included in the fourth US edition of \"FDTD\":\nAppendix 3 gives a step-by-step procedure for effectively translating \"FDTD\" into other languages.\n\n\"From Dictatorship to Democracy\" has been circulated worldwide and cited repeatedly as influencing movements such as the Arab Spring (pictured) in 2011. Sharp has stated that after \"FDTD\" was first written, \"although no efforts were made to promote the publication for use in other countries, translations and distribution of the publication began to spread on their own... We usually do not know how awareness of this publication has spread from country to country.\"\n\nA CNN profile of Sharp in 2012 stated that \"FDTD\" had \"spread like a virus,\" calling it a \"viral pamphlet.\" The book \"started life in Myanmar as incendiary advice printed on a few sheets of paper and surreptitiously exchanged by activists living under a military dictatorship.\" Later it \"took on a life of its own... eventually, some say, inspiring the uprisings known as the Arab Spring.\"\n\nThe Pakistani \"Daily Times\" stated that \"FDTD\" \"has had an impact on the Arabic-speaking world even though the setting is in a non-Arabic world.\"\nThe \"Financial Times\", in discussing the prospects for dictators worldwide, described Sharp as \"the Lenin of the new Gandhi-ism\" stating that\n\nWhat is new... is the wildfire spread of systematically non-violent insurgency. This owes a great deal to the strategic thinking of Gene Sharp, an American academic whose how-to-topple-your-tyrant manual, \"From Dictatorship to Democracy\", is the bible of activists from Belgrade to Rangoon.\nThe BBC reported in 2004 that \"FDTD\" \"was used practically as a textbook\" in lectures attended by members of Otpor!, the Serbian resistance movement, in the year 2000.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported in 2011 that \"From Dictatorship to Democracy\" had been posted by the Muslim Brotherhood on its website during the 2011 Egyptian revolution.\n\nIn 2012, \"The New York Times\" noted that \"FDTD\" was \"available for download in more than two dozen languages\" (and provided a link), while describing Sharp as a \"leading [advocate] of grass-roots democracy.\"\n\nIn June 2015, the \"Financial Times\" and \"Newsmax\" reported that the Chinese government had tried to buy language rights to \"FDTD\":\n\"FDTD\" has been reviewed in newspapers.\n\nIn 2015, 17 activistists were charged for an attempted coup d'état in Angola, and one of the proofs presented was the possession of the book \"FDTD\".\n\nThe book was first published in 1993 in installments in Burmese and English in \"Khit Pyaing\" in\nBangkok, Thailand. In 1994, it was issued as a booklet in both languages, with the\nassistance of the Committee for the Restoration of Democracy in Burma. Since that time, there have been several additional English-language editions. There have also been editions in at least 30 other languages (see table at right). The English-language editions include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1268230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268230", "title": "Gilgul", "text": "Gilgul\n\nGilgul/Gilgul neshamot/Gilgulei Ha Neshamot (Heb. , Plural: \"Gilgulim\") describes a Kabbalistic concept of reincarnation. In Hebrew, the word \"gilgul\" means \"cycle\" or \"wheel\" and \"neshamot\" is the plural for \"souls.\" Souls are seen to \"cycle\" through \"lives\" or \"incarnations\", being attached to different human bodies over time. Which body they associate with depends on their particular task in the physical world, spiritual levels of the bodies of predecessors and so on. The concept relates to the wider processes of history in Kabbalah, involving Cosmic Tikkun (Messianic rectification), and the historical dynamic of ascending Lights and descending Vessels from generation to generation. The esoteric explanations of \"gilgul\" were articulated in Jewish mysticism by Isaac Luria in the 16th century, as part of the metaphysical purpose of Creation.\n\nThe belief in re-incarnation had first existed amongst Jewish mystics in the Ancient World, among differing explanation given of the after-life, although with a universal belief in an immortal soul. Today, re-incarnation is an esoteric belief within many streams of modern Judaism, but is not an essential tenet of traditional Judaism. It is not mentioned in traditional classical sources such as the Hebrew Bible, the classical rabbinic works (Mishnah and Talmud), or Maimonides' 13 Principles of Faith. Kabbalah (Jewish mysticism), however, teaches a belief in \"gilgul\", transmigration of souls, and hence the belief is universal in Hasidic Judaism, which regards the Kabbalah as sacred and authoritative.\n\nAmong well-known rabbis who rejected the idea of reincarnation are Saadia Gaon, David Kimhi, Hasdai Crescas, Jedaiah ben Abraham Bedersi (early 14th century), Joseph Albo, Abraham ibn Daud and Leon of Modena. Among the Geonim, Hai Gaon argued with Saadia Gaon in favour of \"gilgulim\".\n\nRabbis who believed in the idea of reincarnation include, from Medieval times: the mystical leaders Nahmanides and Bahya ben Asher; from the 16th-century: Levi ibn Habib, and from the mystical school of Safed, Shlomo Halevi Alkabetz, Isaac Luria, and his exponent Hayyim ben Joseph Vital; and from the 18th-century: the founder of Hasidic Judaism, the Baal Shem Tov, later Hasidic Masters, and the Lithuanian Jewish Orthodox leader and Kabbalist the Vilna Gaon; and - amongst others - from the 19th/20th-century: Yosef Hayyim author of \"Ben Ish Hai\".\n\nWith the 16th-century rational systemisation of Cordoveran Kabbalah by Alkabetz, and the subsequent new paradigm of Lurianic Kabbalah by Luria, Kabbalah replaced rationalism as the mainstream traditional Jewish theology, both in scholarly circles and in the popular imagination. Isaac Luria taught new explanations of the process of \"gilgul\" and identification of the reincarnations of historic Jewish figures, which were compiled by Hayyim ben Joseph Vital in his \"Shaar HaGilgulim\".\n\nThe idea of \"gilgul\" became popular in Jewish folk belief, and is found in much Yiddish literature among Ashkenazi Jews.\n\nThe essential Kabbalistic text in regards to \"gilgul\" is called Sha'ar Ha'Gilgulim (\"The Gate of Reincarnations\"), based on the work of Rabbi Isaac Luria (and compiled by his disciple, Rabbi Chaim Vital). It describes the deep, complex laws of reincarnation. One concept that arises from Sha'ar Ha'gilgulim is the idea that \"gilgul\" is paralleled physically by pregnancy. In Kabbalah, any higher spiritual truth is seen to be reflected in lower forms in this physical World. This is because the Divine lifeforce for this realm first descends through the chain of higher realms.\n\nIn Kabbalistic understanding of \"gilgul\", reincarnation is not fatalistic or automatic, nor is it essentially a punishment of sin, or reward of virtue. In Judaism, the Heavenly realms could fulfill Maimonides' Principle of faith in Reward and Punishment. Rather, it is concerned with the process of individual Tikkun (Rectification) of the soul. In Kabbalistic interpretation, each Jewish soul is reincarnated enough times only in order to fulfill each of the 613 Mitzvot. The souls of the righteous among the Nations may be assisted through \"gilgulim\" to fulfil each of their seven mitzvot, the Seven Laws of Noah. As such \"gilgul\" is an expression of Divine compassion, and is seen as a Heavenly agreement with the individual soul to descend again. This stress on physical performance and perfection of each Mitzvah, is tied to the Lurianic doctrine of Cosmic Tikkun of Creation. In these new teachings, a Cosmic catastrophe occurred at the beginning of Creation called the \"Shattering of the Vessels\" of the Sephirot in the \"World of Tohu (Chaos)\". The vessels of the Sephirot broke and fell down through the spiritual Worlds until they were embedded in our physical realm as \"sparks of holiness\" (Nitzutzot). The reason in Lurianic Kabbalah that almost all Mitzvot involve physical action, is that through their performance, they elevate each particular Spark of holiness associated with that commandment. Once all the Sparks are redeemed to their spiritual source, the Messianic Era begins. This metaphysical theology gives cosmic significance to the life of each person, as each individual has particular tasks that only they can fulfil. Therefore, \"gilgulim\" assist the individual soul in this cosmic plan. This also explains the Kabbalistic reason why the future eschatological Utopia will be in this World, as only in the lowest, Physical realm is the purpose of Creation fulfilled.\n\nIn Kabbalah, from its initial Medieval form onwards, Creation is described as a descending Chain of spiritual Worlds of cause and effect. The new 16th-century Kabbalistic paradigm of Isaac Luria extends the meaning of this with the concept of the holy sparks. Creation is a continuous process of Divine vitality. All physical and spiritual Creations only continue to exist due to the immanent Divine Ohr (\"Light\"), from God's Will to create, that they constantly receive. This immanent flow forms the spark of holiness in any Created form. This teaches that the true essence of anything is only its Divine spark within, that gives it continual existence. If the light were to be withdrawn, the creation would cease to exist. This complete dependence on Divinity is hidden in this lowest physical realm, but the souls and angels of successively higher spiritual realms are nullified to the Divine Unity, in successively higher degrees. This explains the statement of Isaac Luria that even stones possess a subtle form of soul. With the focus in Lurianic Kabbalah on Cosmic Tikkun rectification, accordingly every leaf also possesses a soul that \"came into this world to receive a rectification\".\n\n16th-century Lurianic doctrine was the first time that Kabbalah focused on gilgul, because it forms the microcosmic parallel to the Cosmic Divine rectification taught by Luria. In Medieval Kabbalah of the Zohar, which received its full rational synthesis in 16th-century Cordoveran Kabbalah, immediately before the new teachings of Luria, Gilgul was not the focus as intellectual categorisation was sought. Lurianic Kabbalah, accordingly, while also fully systemised in rational articulation, nonetheless focuses on Divine soul levels above intellect. The central doctrine of Luria is the Tzimtzum (Divine \"Withdrawal\") that paradoxically transcends human logic. The Tikkun rectification of the Tzimtzum, involving the \"birur\" (elevation) of the sparks of Creation, and their soul parallel of Gilgul, similarly are rooted in Divine levels above intellect. In the foundational Kabbalistic structure of the 10 Sephirot (emanations), Keter (Divine Will) transcends the intellectual Sephirot, and is the origin of All.\n\nThe Lurianic idea that all physical and spiritual Creations possess their particular bodily \"soul\", explains the notion that gilgul can involve a person's soul occasionally being exiled into lower creatures, plants or even stones.\n\nIn Jewish mysticism the human soul has five levels that relate to different levels of the Sephirot (Divine emanations). Based on an ancient Midrashic source, Kabbalah (followed also in Hasidic interpretation of Kabbalah) gives names for these five levels. Their corresponding Sephirot have both outer spiritual functions (vessels) and inner dimensions (lights), that relate to outer manifestations of the human soul, and their inner psychological \"soul powers\". The five levels of the human soul in ascending order:\nThe most basic component of the soul, the nefesh, is always part of the \"gilgul\" process, as it must leave at the cessation of blood production (a stage of death). It moves to another body, where life has begun. There are four other soul components and different nations of the world possess different forms of souls with different purposes.\n\n\"Gilgul\" is contrasted with the other processes in Kabbalah of Ibbur, the attachment of a second soul to an individual, and Dybuk, the exile of a soul.\n\nLurianic Kabbalah focuses on the process of \"gilgulim\", as it forms the microcosmic parallel to macrocosmic rectification of Creation. In the elite circles of Kabbalistic scholars, it becomes beneficial to helping achieve rectification for a person to identify their particular spiritual \"gilgulim\".\n\n18th-century Hasidism sought to democratise and popularise the Jewish mystical tradition, so that the common folk could be invigorated by Judaism's inner dimensions. It sought the internalisation of abstract Kabbalistic metaphysics into personal perception and fervour (dveikus), by relating the structures of Kabbalah to their inner psychological relevance in man. Because \"gilgul\" forms part of the elaborate, abstract structure of the processes of redemption in Kabbalah, it was therefore sidelined in Hasidic Judaism. Hasidism believed in the Kabbalah and \"gilgul\" as authoritative, but left aside the focus in Jewish worship and meditation on the structures, meditations and metaphysical processes, to look to the inner Godliness within everything. Hasidic panentheism devotes itself to dveikus (attachment) to the Divine Omnipresence. In this inner path, identification of one's past \"gilgulim\" becomes external, and a diversion from inner \"Bittul\" (self nullification). To identify one's particular spiritual tasks could introduce a refined level of egotism, while acting purely from dveikus to God would be a higher, essential soulful Jewish worship. The Hasidic figure of the tzadik (Hasidic Rebbe), to which the followers would flock, was believed to know the particular past \"gilgulim\" of each person who came to them, through their semi-prophetic abilities, and the future destiny of each person. However, in Hasidic thought, they would not directly reveal this information in private consultation, as for the follower to know the tasks would introduce self-centredness, and Divine \"help from Above\". Through its Divine Service, Hasidism sought to make Divinity revealed \"from Below\" to fulfil the Ultimate purpose of Creation. Nonetheless, the Tzadik would give assistance and special advice that would both help the follower to achieve their tasks, yet also preserve the full soulfulness \"from Below\" of the common person's Divine service.\n\nIn the history of Jewish mysticism, this Hasidic approach to gilgul corresponds to the third of three successive stages of perception and relation to Divinity. This is based on the three ascending categories of existence taught by the Baal Shem Tov: Worlds (\"Olamot\"-External spiritual vessel forms), Souls (\"Neshamot\"-Internal spiritual lights), Divinity (\"Elokut\"-Essential Godliness).\n\nTraditional Judaism views latter generations to be spiritually inferior and lower than former generations. This belief, called Yeridat ha-dorot (\"Descent of the generations\"), shapes the development of traditional Jewish thought. In Talmudic commentary and Halachah it means that latter authorities in the Eras of Rabbinic Judaism generally do not disagree with authorities from a previous era. The basis of this is two-fold. In the historical chain of transmission of Judaism from generation to generation, a latter generation is further removed from the original Revelation of the Torah on Mount Sinai. The Halachic authorities of a subsequent generation would avoid disagreeing with the preceding Halachic authorities, since to reach them, the chain of Torah transmission is longer and more vulnerable to mistaken recollection. This applies until the Oral Torah was written down in the Talmud, where the Amoraim Sages of the Gemara commentary do not disagree with the earlier Tannaim Sages of the Mishna. Accordingly, the Mishnaic Pirkei Avot begins with a historical account of the chain of Oral Torah transmission from Moses, until it became written down in the Mishna. Once the Oral Torah was written down in the Talmud and its commentaries, the principle still applies for a second reason. While Halachah adapts itself to new technological innovations, the principles behind it are held to be foundational. Latter authorities are less qualified to define the fundamental parameters of Halachah.\n\nThis belief in Descent of the Generations is believed in the world view of Orthodox Judaism, which traditionally based itself around Talmudic scholarship. However, the ascending levels from generation to generation in Jewish mysticism described above, an opposite pattern to the Descent of Generations, are not so well known in contemporary Orthodoxy. This is because Jewish mysticism is less understood by regular Orthodox Jews, especially outside of the mystical Hasidic Movement. Within Hasidism as well, scholarly understanding of the meaning of Hasidic philosophy in relationship to historical Kabbalah, is more restricted to certain Hasidic groups over others. The three ascending stages in Kabbalistic paradigm, listed above, do not contradict the wider belief of Descent of the Generations. Kabbalah gives its own metaphysical reason for the generational descent. In Kabbalistic theology, latter generations possess lower souls than former generations. The level of a soul in Kabbalah only refers to its revealed form, while all the souls are rooted in the same sources. A lower soul means that it's spiritual power became greatly constricted as it descended the Chain of Worlds to reach this World. Accordingly, the possessor of the soul has much more limited spiritual capabilities. In the last generations before the Messiah, the souls come from the lowest levels, even though they are gilgulim of higher souls from earlier generations. This gives the Kabbalistic interpretation of the last generations when the \"Heels (footsteps) of the Messiah\" are perceptible. This Talmudic phrase becomes in Kabbalah, the generations of souls that correspond in the Man-metaphor of the Sephirot to the lowest level of the \"heels\" of the feet. This need however not be considered a disadvantage, as in Hasidic thought, which sought inner nullification to God in dveikus, lower souls worship God with more self-sacrifice and innermost sincerity, because they act without great knowledge and fulfilment of ego. Their Divine service is able to bring the Messiah because of their devoted essential soulfulness.\n\nIn Jewish mystical thought, the descent of generations applies even more because of this metaphysical explanation. Within scholarship it applies to Halachah and Talmudic commentary because of the simple historical explanations. However, within Lurianic mysticism the opposite progressive ascendency still applies. The reason for this is because this 16th century Kabbalistic dimension of Jewish thought is innovated only by the greatest Tzadikim (saintly souls) in history, the rarest of whom are unaffected by descending generational soul levels. A \"Tzadik\" in early 19th century Chabad philosophy, as defined by the Tanya (c. 1814), is a truly elevated soul, unaffected by physical limitations. The rarest such Tzadikim in history, who teach new revelations in Kabbalistic thought, are considered apart from general (traditional) Tzadikim. To them is applied in Kabbalah the verse from Psalms, \"The [traditional] Tzadik is the foundation of the World\". 16th century Lurianic Kabbalah and 18th century Hasidic philosophy make radical statements about this believed supreme level of \"Tzadik\". In the Kabbalistic worldview, their new revelations in Jewish mystical thought advance the conceptual frontiers of Kabbalah from generation to generation. Therefore, while in Halachah (Jewish Law), scholarship ability decreases in each generation, in 16th century Lurianic, 18th century Hasidic, and 19th century Chabad philosophy, mystical thought is said to ascend through history. This ascent applies to Jewish mystical thought, the \"Inner Torah\" (\"Nistar\"-\"Concealed\") of Kabbalah, rather than the \"Revealed Torah\" (\"Nigleh\"-\"Revealed\") of Jewish commentaries on the Bible, Midrash, Talmud, Halachah and Medieval Jewish philosophy. The reason for this is because in Nigleh, scholarship involves discovering new and deeper interpretations of previous revealed Biblical and Rabbinic texts. In Lurianic Kabbalah, advance is made by new doctrines and individual revelations that transcend previous descriptions. \"Revealed\" \"Nigleh\" corresponds to the collaborative scholarly ascent \"from Below\" of human intellect up to God. \"Concealed\" \"Nistar\" corresponds to privately drawing down new revelations of Divine intellect \"from Above\", down into the human intellect of one individual. This is also a philosophy, as the difference between Nevuah (\"Prophecy\") and Kabbalah (\"Received\"), is that Lurianic Kabbalah becomes articulated conceptually in intellectual structures, in which allegedly lays its supremacy over prophecy.\n\nThis paradoxical dialectic is explained more generally in Hasidic thought as part of the divine cosmic plan of Kabbalistic Lights and Vessels. In each subsequent generation, the external levels of creation and this world (\"vessels\") descend to a lower level. This enables the difference between purity and impurity to become revealed, clarified and redeemed. At the same time, \"In every generation a new, higher light descends from on High\" to transform this World. This inner revelation ascends progressively to prepare for, and give a foretaste of the Messianic Era. In the future era, the constant, inner elevation of existence, the mystical purpose of creation, will be revealed, as the messianic revelations of divinity are created through the present service of God from below. In kabbalistic terminology this dialectic is also related to the \"masculine waters\" of \"direct light\" from above, and the \"feminine waters\" of \"reflected light\" from below. This explains the mystical concept in Hasidic interpretation of Kabbalah that in the messianic era, the feminine in creation will become the ascendant, and similarly the body will give life to the soul, the opposite of the present reality.\n\nThe ultimate purpose of any spiritual descent in Kabbalah is \"only in order to reach a higher spiritual ascent\", than the original level at the start. In the Hasidic explanation of individual Divine providence, all that occurs for every individual is a concealed part of this ultimate ascent. In its inner interpretation, the descent, such as a spiritual fall, is itself the concealed beginning of the true divine ascent. According to this Hasidic explanation, sin is an opportunity for mystical dveikus (fervour) in Teshuvah (Return to God). This expression of divine compassion excludes any misinterpretation of Jewish reincarnation as a fatalistic process of reward and punishment.\n\nTraditional Judaism describes Abraham as the first Jew. With his son Isaac, and grandson Jacob, they are described as the \"Fathers\" of the Jewish people, and their wives, Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel and Leah are the \"Mothers\". These terms take on Kabbalistic meanings by being associated with some of the different Sephirot (Divine emanations). It was Moses, in traditional Judaism, who later received the teachings of Judaism at Mount Sinai, embodied in the Torah and 613 mitzvot. The other \"Nations of the World\", counted as 70 roots from Noah, are given the Seven Laws of Noah for spiritual redemption, and do not need to convert to Judaism, in Jewish thought, to fulfil the eschatological purpose of Creation, or private salvation.\n\n\nIn Judaism:\nFor comparison with other religions:\n\n"}
{"id": "40957016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40957016", "title": "HCoV-EMC/2012", "text": "HCoV-EMC/2012\n\nHCoV-EMC/2012, or Human Coronavirus Erasmus Medical Center/2012 is the name of a novel strain of coronavirus isolated from the sputum of the first person to become infected with what was later named Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, or MERS-CoV.\n\nAn investigation of bat roosts in Bisha, the hometown of the index patient, by the Saudi Ministry of Health discovered an Egyptian tomb bat in a large roost close to the index patient's home. Phylogenetic analysis showed a 100% match between the virus isolated from the bat and HCoV-EMC/2012 isolated from the index patient.\n\nHCoV-EMC/2012 is the sixth coronavirus known to infect humans and the first human virus within betacoronavirus lineage C. It is a new genotype which is related to bat coronaviruses, specifically an Egyptian tomb bat, and is not the same beta-CoV as the SARS-CoV, but is distantly related.\n\n"}
{"id": "29593808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29593808", "title": "Hadji Ali", "text": "Hadji Ali\n\nHadji Ali (c. 1887–92 – November 5, 1937) was a vaudeville performance artist, thought to be of Egyptian descent, who was famous for acts of controlled regurgitation. His best-known feats included water spouting, smoke swallowing, and nut and handkerchief swallowing followed by disgorgement in an order chosen by the audience. Ali's most famous stunt, and the highlight of his act, was drinking copious amounts of water followed by kerosene, and then acting by turns as a human flamethrower and fire extinguisher as he expelled the two liquids onto a theatrical prop. While these stunts were performed, a panel of audience members was invited to watch the show up close to verify that no trickery was employed.\n\nAlthough he never gained wide fame, Ali had a dedicated following on the vaudeville circuit in the United States. He performed for heads of state including Tsar Nicholas II of Russia. Judy Garland named him her favorite vaudevillian and David Blaine identified Ali as his favorite magician. Portions of his act were captured in the short film \"Strange as It Seems\" (1930) and in \"Politiquerias\" (1931), the Spanish-language version of Laurel and Hardy's \"Chickens Come Home\". Two documentaries contain footage of Ali taken from \"Politiquerias\": 1977's \"Gizmo!\", and 1999's \"Vaudeville\". Ali's unusual gastric abilities led to rumors that the Rockefeller Institute had offered a large sum of money to obtain his stomach post-mortem. After he died in England, his body was offered to Johns Hopkins University for study, though the offer was declined.\n\nHadji Ali was born into a working-class family in approximately 1887 or 1892, depending on the source consulted, probably in Egypt. His fame was as a practitioner of a recognized vaudeville subgenre known as a \"regurgitation act\", involving the swallowing of material or objects and their regurgitation in various ways. Ali became aware as a child that he possessed an unusual gastric ability. He explained in response to audience questions at a performance held at St. Mary's Hospital in Niagara Falls, New York, in May 1926, that while swimming in the Nile as a ten-year-old boy, he naturally discovered that he could swallow a large amount of water and blow it out like a whale spouting. He continued to develop and refine the ability as he grew older. A more dramatic version of these events was provided by Ali's daughter, Almina Ali, in an interview in England after his death. She stated that his abilities were first learned through a single incident: while bathing in the Nile, he inadvertently swallowed a fish and an ample volume of water. Instead of dying, as those present thought he might, Ali simply regurgitated the liquid and the fish without ill effect.\n\nAli learned that his regurgitation talents had the potential to entertain and to earn money through performance at the age of fifteen:\n\nI tried out my tricks first of all in the street, swallowing many glasses of water and then pouring forth a great fountain from one side of the road to the other ... A cafe proprietor saw me doing this one day, and chased me down the street. I thought he wanted to beat me up, but no—all he did was to put a coin in my hand and ask me to repeat the trick. Finally, he was so delighted that he asked me to come to his cafe and entertain the customers. \n\nTaking his abilities on the road, Ali met an Italian man in Cairo who signed him to a contract for music hall performances. Ali performed under contract throughout Europe and at times for heads of state. According to Ali, in or about 1914 he was summoned by Tsar Nicholas II of Russia to perform at the Winter Palace in Saint Petersburg, Russia. He stated that the Tsar \"must have liked my performance because he awarded me a special decoration, which is now one of my most treasured possessions.\" Following World War I, Ali began managing his own affairs and toured the world, learning more tricks as he went.\nAli came to the United States with Almina in the mid-1920s. They performed together at fairs, carnivals and in vaudeville, sometimes advertised under the collective name, \"Hadji Ali & Co.\" Almina played the part of assistant in her father's act, billed in his shows as \"The Princess\". Ali alone had a variety of stage names, including: \"The Great Egyptian Miracle Man\", \"The Amazing Regurgitator\", \"The Egyptian Enigma\", \"The Human Aquarium\", \"The Human Volcano\" and \"The 9th Wonder of the Scientific World\". Ali has been described as a \"large, barrel-chested and bearded man ... [that cut] an imposing figure in his Arab costume.\"\n\nAlthough Ali spoke a number of languages and became a naturalized U.S. citizen, it was reported that Almina acted as his interpreter in the United States and other places, as he did not speak English and was illiterate. Once he had gained some notoriety, Ali took on as his manager Hubert Julian, a former colonel in the Abyssinian Air Force. Although he developed a significant following, even being named Judy Garland's favorite vaudevillian, Ali \"remained more a sideshow curiosity than a true vaudeville headliner\" according to at least one source. Nevertheless, at the time of his death in 1937, Julian commented that Ali had \"earned big money in America—$1,000 a week sometimes. I was building him up here [in Europe] and had a Continental tour arranged.\"\n\nThe mainstay of Ali's act was \"water spouting\". After swallowing large amounts of water, 60 to 100 glasses at a time, he spouted the water in a continuous stream for a sustained period of time, sometimes approaching one minute.\nAnother common trick was to swallow 30 to 50 unshelled hazelnuts (although one of his posters advertised 40 pecans), followed by another nut of a different variety, such as an almond. Ali then brought them up one by one with the odd-nut-out produced at a mark called out by the audience. In another trick, Ali swallowed three to six handkerchiefs of different hues and then produced them in a color order requested by audience members.\n\nIn a 1929 article appearing in the \"Lowell Sun\" newspaper, physician Morris Fishbein speculated that for Ali's nut feat, the one nut of a different variety was held in the mouth rather than swallowed, thus allowing him to produce it on cue. Dr. Fishbein also stated that unnamed \"investigators\" were convinced that for Ali's handkerchief stunt, to produce them in the sequence stipulated by the audience Ali flavored the cloth, and could therefore taste for the correct one as he brought them up. Ali also swallowed live goldfish, watches, coins, costume jewelry, paper money, peach pits, stones, live mice, buttons, pool balls and other odd objects. In another standard performance segment, he placed eight or more lit cigarettes in his mouth but instead of inhaling, he swallowed the smoke and, after a significant time had passed, issued it forth in a steady stream like an erupting volcano.\nAli's longstanding finale was the swallowing of copious amounts of water again, but this time followed by a pint of kerosene. A prop was then produced, typically a model castle or house made of metal set on a table, within which a small flame burned. Lighter than water and immiscible with it, the kerosene floated above the liquid in Ali's gut, allowing him to disgorge it first. The stage thus set, and to a drum roll or an imitation of fire bells, Ali became a \"human flamethrower\", spewing the accelerant in a long stream over the sacrificial prop, setting it ablaze. Once the kerosene was exhausted, the water followed, streaming out his mouth in a long flow from up to six feet away, extinguishing the fire.\nAt some performances, a panel or \"jury\" from the audience was invited on stage to verify that no trick mechanism was being employed—that he was actually swallowing the items in question and delivering them back through acts of regurgitation. Sometimes Ali would stroll into the audience during his nut swallowing trick. His stomach exposed by his standard costume, he invited audience members to pat his stomach, allowing them to hear the nuts rattling within. One newspaper reported that Ali's feats, essentially controlled vomiting, were performed in \"a manner without the least bit of unpleasantness or anything bordering on repulsiveness.\" Not everyone felt the same: at least one of Ali's engagements was cut short once the proprietor realized that the nature of the act \"was killing their supper shows\". Famed escapologist and magician Harry Houdini remarked in his 1920 work \"Miracle Mongers and Their Methods\" that water spouting was a \"performance that could not fail to disgust a modern audience.\"\n\nThe abilities of Ali fascinated the public and medical authorities. As reported in a 1928 \"Sheboygan Press\" article, at one of Ali's acts a number of doctors attended and thoroughly examined him during the performance. They came away satisfied that he was actually imbibing and regurgitating the material and objects as claimed, but remained \"mystified over his extraordinary performance.\" According to an article appearing in the \"Naugatuck Daily News\", \"Physicians of three continents have puzzled over the gastronomical mechanism of this human ostrich without success. X-ray experiments have been made during his exhibition without a plausible explanation forthcoming that satisfies the critical, in fact, the profession of surgery has thrown up its hands in amazement over this human ostrich.\"\n\nAli's act was captured in two films: the 1930 short \"Strange as It Seems\", and \"Politiquerias\" (1931), the expanded Spanish-language version of Laurel and Hardy's \"Chickens Come Home\". Ali also had a bit part as the \"Turkish landlord\" in Warner Bros.' 1932 film \"Scarlet Dawn\" starring Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. and Nancy Carroll. Two documentaries contain footage of Ali taken from \"Politiquerias\": 1977's \"Gizmo!\", and 1999's \"Vaudeville\", a documentary produced by KCTS-TV that exhibits 90 vaudeville acts over a two-hour running time. The documentary has since aired on the Public Broadcasting Service's \"American Masters\" series numerous times.\n\nSpeaking about the democratic nature of the vaudeville performance circuit, \"Vaudeville's\" writer and executive producer said in reference to Ali that the film \"embraced everything from Caruso to a guy who threw up.\" By contrast, in episode 30 of the Sundance Channel television program \"Iconoclasts\", magician David Blaine speaks enthusiastically of Ali. During the episode, Blaine shows artist Chuck Close Ali's kerosene and water finale footage from \"Politiquerias\" and comments that Ali is his \"favorite magician ... it's real but nobody's been able to do it since ... his name was Hadji Ali ... he's my favorite of all time.\"\n\nAli died on November 5, 1937, in Wolverhampton, England, from heart failure during a bout of bronchitis. Even before his death, a rumor had circulated that the Rockefeller Institute sought to procure Ali's stomach upon his death, and would pay as much as $50,000 for it. This claim appeared in a poster advertising Ali's impending appearance at a theater during his lifetime. After Ali's death was reported, the rumor resurfaced as an active offer of $10,000. When a Rockefeller Institute manager was interviewed about the story, he said the offer had never been made but that nevertheless, \"we should very much like to see the body.\" Almina and Julian transported Ali's body back to the United States on board the \"Queen Mary\". According to a November 29, 1937 article in the \"New York Post\", upon their arrival, Almina offered her father's body to Maryland's Johns Hopkins University for investigation by surgeons, after which it would be transported to Egypt for interment in a mausoleum. However, \"The Afro-American\" newspaper reported on December 11, 1937, that Johns Hopkins' officials had declined the offer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401433", "title": "Index of articles related to the theory of constraints", "text": "Index of articles related to the theory of constraints\n\nThis is a list of topics related to the Theory of Constraints.\n\nBottleneck (Bn) \nThis is a resource that has just enough capacity or less capacity than is needed to satisfy the demand placed upon it. Bottlenecks may need to be taken into account when scheduling.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45015166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45015166", "title": "Jammal-ud-Din Affendi", "text": "Jammal-ud-Din Affendi\n\nJammal-ud-Din Affendi (born 23 June 1908, date of death unknown) was an Afghanistan field hockey player, who competed at the 1936 Summer Olympic Games and played in both games.\n"}
{"id": "15397088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15397088", "title": "Joey Gosiengfiao", "text": "Joey Gosiengfiao\n\nJoey Gosiengfiao was a movie director, he also best known for the campy box-office hits he directed.\n\nBorn Jose Gosiengfiao on March 15, 1941 in Manila. He finished his studies at University of the East.\n\nJoey was best known for the sexy, campy box-office hits he directed for Regal Films in the 1970s and 1980s: \"Temptation Island\", \"Underage\", \"Bomba Star\", \"Katorse, \"14 Going Steady\", among others. His films launched the likes of Dina Bonnevie, Maricel Soriano and Gretchen Barretto to full stardom and discovered established actors like Albert Martinez, Al Tantay, and Orestes Ojeda. In recent years, he had worked as publicist for Regal Films.\n\nSome of his other works as a director were the \"Rape of Virginia P.\" (1989), \"Bomba Star\" (1980), and \"Nympha\" (1980).\n\nApart from his directorial success, Gosiengfiao is also known for his craft as a supervising producer for films like \"Pila Balde\" (1999), \"Pahiram Kahit Sandali\" (1998) and the more recent \"Forever My Love\" (2004).\n\nJoey Gosiengfiao is survived by two brothers, US-based historian Victor Gosiengfiao and Ateneo employee Manuel Gosiengfiao. His two nieces are musician Ashley Gosiengfiao and Alodia Gosiengfiao, both cosplayers.\n\nMovie director Joey Gosiengfiao died Friday, March 17, 2007, one day after suffering from his sixth heart attack on his 66th birthday Thursday, according to friends. He was rushed to Quirino Memorial Medical Center, Quezon City on Thursday due to heart attack, his 6th, but died a few hours later. He was cremated, according to Perez and Monteverde, at Loyola Memorial Park, in Marikina City. A memorial service for the late director was also organized by his friends.\n"}
{"id": "456377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456377", "title": "John Chalkhill", "text": "John Chalkhill\n\nJohn Chalkhill (fl. 1600?) was an English poet.\n\nTwo songs by him are included in Izaak Walton's \"Compleat Angler\", and in 1683 appeared \"Thealma and Clearchus. A Pastoral History in smooth and easie Verse. Written long since by John Chalkhill, Esq., an Acquaintant and Friend of Edmund Spencer\" (1683), with a preface written five years earlier by Walton.\n\nAnother poem, \"Aldilia, Philoparthens Loving Follie\" (1595, reprinted in vol. X of the \"Jahrbuch des deutschen Shakespeare-Vereins\"), was at one time attributed to him. Nothing further is known of the poet, but a person with the same name is recorded as one of the coroners for Middlesex in the later years of Elizabeth I's reign.\n\nGeorge Saintsbury, who included \"Thealma and Clearchus\" in vol. II of his \"Minor Poets of the Caroline Period\" (Oxford, 1906), points out a marked resemblance between Chalkhill's work and that of William Chamberlayne.\n\n"}
{"id": "56055774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56055774", "title": "John Gray (mathematician)", "text": "John Gray (mathematician)\n\nJohn Gray, FRS (died 17 July 1769) was a British mathematician.\n\nAs a young man he taught mathematics at Marischal College, later Aberdeen University.\n\nHe wrote \"A Treatise on Gunnery\", dedicated to the Duke of Argyll and published by William Innys (London) in 1731.\n\nIn collaboration with Andrew Reid and others, he worked to produce a book of abridged \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\" for 1720–1732; which was published by W. Innys and R. Manby in 1732.\n\nIn March 1732 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, his application citation having described him as being of the Navy Office (or Navy Board), who were responsible for the construction and maintenance of ships in the Royal Dockyards for the Royal Navy.\n\nFrom 1764 to his death he was Rector of Marischal College. He died at his London home in 1769, having asked to be buried at Petersham next to his wife Elizabeth. He left estates in the West Indies to his nephews and 1000 acres to Gray's Inn of London.\n"}
{"id": "4712972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4712972", "title": "Kim Kyung-jae", "text": "Kim Kyung-jae\n\nKim Kyung-Jae (died 2002) is the first human being in history to die from literally playing a video game too much. According to publicly available English-speaking sources, he died of deep-vein thrombosis or DVT after playing the Webzen video game Mu for 86 hours in Gwangju, with pauses only to purchase cigarettes and to use the bathroom. Although no medical report is available in English, it is worth noting that prolonged immobility as well as vein condition are diatheses that increase the odds of contracting deep vein thrombosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "936385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=936385", "title": "Liberty", "text": "Liberty\n\nBroadly speaking, liberty (Latin: \"Libertas\") is the ability to do as one pleases. In politics, liberty consists of the social, political, and economic freedoms to which all community members are entitled. In philosophy, liberty involves free will as contrasted with, determinism. In theology, liberty is freedom from the effects of \"sin, spiritual servitude, [or] worldly ties.\"\n\nSometimes liberty is differentiated from freedom by using the word \"freedom\" primarily, if not exclusively, to mean the ability to do as one wills and what one has the power to do; and using the word \"liberty\" to mean the absence of arbitrary restraints, taking into account the rights of all involved. In this sense, the exercise of liberty is subject to capability and limited by the rights of others. Thus liberty entails the responsible use of freedom under the rule of law without depriving anyone else of their freedom. Freedom is more broad in that it represents a total lack of restraint or the unrestrained ability to fulfill one's desires. For example, a person can have the freedom to murder, but not have the liberty to murder, as the latter example deprives others of their right not to be harmed. Liberty can be taken away as a form of punishment. In many countries, people can be deprived of their liberty if they are convicted of criminal acts.\n\nThe word \"liberty\" is often used in slogans, such as \"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\" or \"Liberty, Equality, Fraternity\".\n\nPhilosophers from earliest times have considered the question of liberty. Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius (121–180 AD) wrote:\"a polity in which there is the same law for all, a polity administered with regard to equal rights and equal freedom of speech, and the idea of a kingly government which respects most of all the freedom of the governed.\"According to Thomas Hobbes (1588–1679):\"a free man is he that in those things which by his strength and wit he is able to do is not hindered to do what he hath the will to do\" (\"Leviathan\", Part 2, Ch. XXI).John Locke (1632–1704) rejected that definition of liberty. While not specifically mentioning Hobbes, he attacks Sir Robert Filmer who had the same definition. According to Locke:\n\nJohn Stuart Mill (1806–1873), in his work, \"On Liberty\", was the first to recognize the difference between liberty as the freedom to act and liberty as the absence of coercion. In his book \"Two Concepts of Liberty\", Isaiah Berlin formally framed the differences between these two perspectives as the distinction between two opposite concepts of liberty: positive liberty and negative liberty. The latter designates a negative condition in which an individual is protected from tyranny and the arbitrary exercise of authority, while the former refers to the liberty that comes from self-mastery, the freedom from inner compulsions such as weakness and fear.\n\nThe modern concept of political liberty has its origins in the Greek concepts of freedom and slavery. To be free, to the Greeks, was not to have a master, to be independent from a master (to live as one likes). That was the original Greek concept of freedom. It is closely linked with the concept of democracy, as Aristotle put it:\n\nThis applied only to free men. In Athens, for instance, women could not vote or hold office and were legally and socially dependent on a male relative.\n\nThe populations of the Persian Empire enjoyed some degree of freedom. Citizens of all religions and ethnic groups were given the same rights and had the same freedom of religion, women had the same rights as men, and slavery was abolished (550 BC). All the palaces of the kings of Persia were built by paid workers in an era when slaves typically did such work.\n\nIn the Buddhist Maurya Empire of ancient India, citizens of all religions and ethnic groups had some rights to freedom, tolerance, and equality. The need for tolerance on an egalitarian basis can be found in the Edicts of Ashoka the Great, which emphasize the importance of tolerance in public policy by the government. The slaughter or capture of prisoners of war also appears to have been condemned by Ashoka. Slavery also appears to have been non-existent in the Maurya Empire. However, according to Hermann Kulke and Dietmar Rothermund, \"Ashoka's orders seem to have been resisted right from the beginning.\"\n\nRoman law also embraced certain limited forms of liberty, even under the rule of the Roman Emperors. However, these liberties were accorded only to Roman citizens. Many of the liberties enjoyed under Roman law endured through the Middle Ages, but were enjoyed solely by the nobility, rarely by the common man. The idea of inalienable and universal liberties had to wait until the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nThe social contract theory, most influentially formulated by Hobbes, John Locke and Rousseau (though first suggested by Plato in \"The Republic\"), was among the first to provide a political classification of rights, in particular through the notion of sovereignty and of natural rights. The thinkers of the Enlightenment reasoned that law governed both heavenly and human affairs, and that law gave the king his power, rather than the king's power giving force to law. This conception of law would find its culmination in the ideas of Montesquieu. The conception of law as a relationship between individuals, rather than families, came to the fore, and with it the increasing focus on individual liberty as a fundamental reality, given by \"Nature and Nature's God,\" which, in the ideal state, would be as universal as possible.\n\nIn \"On Liberty\", John Stuart Mill sought to define the \"...nature and limits of the power which can be legitimately exercised by society over the individual,\" and as such, he describes an inherent and continuous antagonism between liberty and authority and thus, the prevailing question becomes \"how to make the fitting adjustment between individual independence and social control\".\n\nEngland and following the Act of Union 1707 Great Britain, laid down the cornerstones to the concept of individual liberty.\n\nIn 1166 Henry II of England transformed English law by passing the Assize of Clarendon act. The act, a forerunner to trial by jury, started the abolition of trial by combat and trial by ordeal.\n\nIn 1215 the Magna Carta was drawn up, it became the cornerstone of liberty in first England, Great Britain and later, the world.\n\nIn 1689 the Bill of Rights grants 'freedom of speech in Parliament', which lays out some of the earliest civil rights.\n\nIn 1859 an essay by the philosopher John Stuart Mill, entitled \"On Liberty\" argues for toleration and individuality. \"If any opinion is compelled to silence, that opinion may, for aught we can certainly know, be true. To deny this is to assume our own infallibility.\"\n\nIn 1958 \"Two Concepts of Liberty\", by Isaiah Berlin, determines 'negative liberty' as an obstacle, as evident from 'positive liberty' which promotes self-mastery and the concepts of freedom.\n\nIn 1948 British representatives attempt to and are prevented from adding a legal framework to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. (It was not until 1976 that the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights came into force, giving a legal status to most of the Declaration.) \n\nAccording to the 1776 United States Declaration of Independence, all men have a natural right to \"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\". But this declaration of liberty was troubled from the outset by the presence of slavery. Slave owners argued that their liberty was paramount, since it involved property, their slaves, and that Blacks had no rights that any White man was obliged to recognize. The Supreme Court, in the Dred Scott decision, upheld this principle. It was not until 1866, following the Civil War, that the US Constitution was amended to extend these rights to persons of color, and not until 1920 that these rights were extended to women.\n\nBy the later half of the 20th century, liberty was expanded further to prohibit government interference with personal choices. In the United States Supreme Court decision \"Griswold v. Connecticut\", Justice William O. Douglas argued that liberties relating to personal relationships, such as marriage, have a unique primacy of place in the hierarchy of freedoms. Jacob M. Appel has summarized this principle:\nIn modern America, various competing ideologies have divergent views about how best to promote liberty. Liberals in the original sense of the word see equality as a necessary component of freedom. Progressives stress freedom from business monopoly as essential. Libertarians disagree, and see economic freedom as best. The Tea Party movement sees big government as the enemy of freedom.\n\nFrance supported the Americans in their revolt against English rule and, in 1789, overthrew their own monarchy, with the cry of \"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\". The bloodbath that followed, known as the reign of terror, soured many people on the idea of liberty. Edmund Burke, considered one of the fathers of conservatism, wrote \"The French had shewn themselves the ablest architects of ruin that had hitherto existed in the world.\"\n\nAccording to the \"Concise Oxford Dictionary of Politics\", liberalism is \"the belief that it is the aim of politics to preserve individual rights and to maximize freedom of choice\". But they point out that there is considerable discussion about how to achieve those goals. Every discussion of freedom depends on three key components: who is free, what they are free to do, and what forces restrict their freedom. John Gray argues that the core belief of liberalism is toleration. Liberals allow others freedom to do what they want, in exchange for having the same freedom in return. This idea of freedom is personal rather than political. William Safire points out that liberalism is attacked by both the Right and the Left: by the Right for defending such practices as abortion, homosexuality, and atheism, and by the Left for defending free enterprise and the rights of the individual over the collective.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Libertarians hold liberty as their primary political value. Their approach to implementing liberty involves opposing any governmental coercion, aside from that which is necessary to prevent individuals from coercing each other.\n\nAccording to republican theorists of freedom, like the historian Quentin Skinner or the philosopher Philip Pettit, one's liberty should not be viewed as the absence of interference in one's actions, but as non-domination. According to this view, which originates in the Roman Digest, to be a \"liber homo\", a free man, means not being subject to another's arbitrary will, that is to say, dominated by another. They also cite Machiavelli who asserted that you must be a member of a free self-governing civil association, a republic, if you are to enjoy individual liberty.\n\nThe predominance of this view of liberty among parliamentarians during the English Civil War resulted in the creation of the liberal concept of freedom as non-interference in Thomas Hobbes' Leviathan.\n\nSocialists view freedom as a concrete situation as opposed to a purely abstract ideal. Freedom is a state of being where individuals have agency to pursue their creative interests unhindered by coercive social relationships, specifically those they are forced to engage in as a requisite for survival under a given social system. Freedom thus requires both the material economic conditions that make freedom possible alongside social relationships and institutions conducive to freedom.\n\nThe socialist conception of freedom is closely related to the socialist view of creativity and individuality. Influenced by Karl Marx's concept of alienated labor, socialists understand freedom to be the ability for an individual to engage in creative work in the absence of alienation, where \"alienated labor\" refers to work people are forced to perform and un-alienated work refers to individuals pursuing their own creative interests.\n\nFor Karl Marx, meaningful freedom is only attainable in a communist society characterized by superabundance and free access. Such a social arrangement would eliminate the need for alienated labor and enable individuals to pursue their own creative interests, leaving them to develop and maximize their full potentialities. This goes alongside Marx's emphasis on the ability of socialism and communism progressively reducing the average length of the workday to expand the \"realm of freedom\", or discretionary free time, for each person. Marx's notion of communist society and human freedom is thus radically individualistic.\n\nSome authors have suggested that a virtuous culture must exist as a prerequisite for liberty. Benjamin Franklin stated that \"only a virtuous people are capable of freedom. As nations become corrupt and vicious, they have more need of masters.\" Madison likewise declared: \"To suppose that any form of government will secure liberty or happiness without any virtue in the people, is a chimerical idea.\" John Adams acknowledged: \"Our constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1129018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1129018", "title": "M.A.C.H. 1", "text": "M.A.C.H. 1\n\nM.A.C.H. 1 was a comic strip that ran in the British science fiction comic \"2000 AD\". The strip was created by writer Pat Mills and illustrator Enio. It debuted in the first issue of \"2000 AD\", which was published in February 1977, and ran nearly continuously until issue 64, dated 13 May 1978.\n\nPat Mills has said the idea was a deliberate ripoff of \"The Six Million Dollar Man\" after kids said they wanted to see that in a comic, and the concept of a computer brain as a partner was taken by John Wagner from Marvel Comics' \"Deathlok\". The name came from Doug Church while Mills, according to Church, came up with the acronym on the spot.\n\nInitially, M.A.C.H. 1 (\"M.A.C.H.\" stands for \"Man Activated by Compu-puncture Hyperpower\") thematically resembled \"the Six Million Dollar Man\", but with more graphic violence. As the strip continued the tone became increasingly dark. This contrasted directly with The Six Million Dollar Man, who began as a killer, but was progressively softened by the TV networks until it fitted into family entertainment.\n\nJohn Probe is a British Secret Service agent at first engaging in missions against Communists, terrorists and organised crime. He has been given extreme physical enhancement by a method known as \"compu-puncture\" to give him \"hyperpower\" equivalent to the strength of fifty men, and computer circuitry imprinted onto his skull to control and advise on use of the hyperpower. The computer also grants him occasional mental skills, such as how to pilot aeroplanes, drive an armoured car, or specific scientific and military knowledge he would not normally possess. Probe eventually discovers that his superior, Denis Sharpe, had engineered the compu-puncture treatment which had given him his abilities so as to erase Probe's pre-augmented memory and to cause his death if he did not receive frequent treatments. As a result, Probe was forced to work for Sharpe.\n\nProbe attempted to leave Sharpe and the service several times, but was forced to return for controlling hyperpower injections to prevent his energy flow from falling below survival level - although one story suggests that he has left Sharpe for an unspecified but considerable length of time. Probe's computer would often attempt to overrule or counter his human emotions, but as the story wore on Probe became more and more resentful to both the computer and Sharpe's orders, often disobeying the computer's advice completely. Eventually, M.A.C.H. 1 killed Sharpe and then sacrificed himself to enable aliens, provoked into attacking Earth by Sharpe, to return home. Probe's life before his compu-puncture treatment was never clarified or explained, and it was stated several times that the only person who knew anything about his prior life was Sharpe himself.\n\n\nBoth \"M.A.C.H. 1\" and \"M.A.C.H. Zero\" appeared in their own eponymous series. M.A.C.H. 1 was later reprinted in \"Eagle\" and also in anthology format (the beginning and end in \"2000AD Extreme Edition\" #6 and #9). Appearances include:\n\nA collection of M.A.C.H. 1 adventures entitled \"M.A.C.H. 1: The John Probe Mission Files\" was be released March 2018, it collects all the stories from Prog 1-33.\n\nA spoof, entitled \"B.L.A.I.R. 1\", a satire on Tony Blair, appeared in \"2000 AD\" in the late 1990s, and gained considerable media attention at the time. The story was not popular with readers, however, and was soon killed off.\n\n\nA second spoof ran in the 40th Anniversary Special: a fake 'original' version of the strip \"Zombo\", dropped from the comic's original line-up. \"Z.O.M.B.O.\" parodied \"M.A.C.H. 1\", \"Invasion!\", and other 70s strip tropes with an over-the-top working class Zombo (playing the John Probe role) paired with an upper-class Etonian.\n\n"}
{"id": "2797422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2797422", "title": "Millennium Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Millennium Pharmaceuticals\n\nTakeda Oncology, (originally Millennium Pharmaceuticals), is a biopharmaceutical company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. It is a fully owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical.\n\nTakeda Oncology's research, development and commercialization activities focused in two therapeutic areas: oncology and inflammation to develop a line of new product candidates. It was one of the first companies to systematically search for genes linked to disease, although none of the drugs which it is marketing or has in clinical trial, with one partial exception, have been the results of that research.\n\nIt is particularly known for bringing bortezomib (marketed as Velcade) through clinical trials to approval for treatment of patients with multiple myeloma by the U.S. FDA, but has a growing clinical development pipeline of other product candidates.\n\nOn May 14, 2008, Japanese company Takeda Pharmaceutical announced the completion of its acquisition of Millennium for US$25.00 per share in cash—a deal worth $8.8 billion. Takeda completed the acquisition through a tender offer and subsequent merger as a wholly owned subsidiary Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company - with the name being simplified to Takeda Oncology in 2013.\n\nMillennium was founded in 1993. In its early years, Millennium focused on building science and business teams. \nBeginning in 1994, Millennium created more than 20 strategic alliances with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These alliances provided Millennium with close to $2 billion of committed funding that was used to develop and enhance its pipeline.\n\nA merger with Leukosite in 1999 brought the company its first drug close-to-market, Campath (alemtuzumab) Injection, and additional investigational drugs in clinical trials. In 2000, a merger with Cambridge Discovery Chemistry gave Millennium a strong presence in the United Kingdom and added to the organization more than 100 scientists with expertise in chemistry. In a strategic business decision, Campath was later sold to the Millennium partner for the drug, ILEX Oncology, which in turn was acquired by Genzyme.\n\nIn February 2002, there was a further merger with COR Therapeutics—among the largest such mergers in the history of the biotech industry at that time. In addition to creating a strong pipeline of novel therapeutics, the merger added cardiovascular research and drug development to the company's other key therapeutic areas: oncology and inflammation. The merger also brought Integrilin (eptifibatide) Injection, an intravenous anti-platelet drug for patients with severe cardiovascular diseases, into the Millennium fold. Millennium partnered with Schering-Plough on the development and marketing of Integrilin until 2005 when Millennium licensed the exclusive U.S. commercialization and development rights of Integrilin to Schering-Plough.\n\nIn May 2003 Velcade was launched for the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma – a cancer of the blood. At the time, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted approval for the treatment of multiple myeloma for patients who had not responded to at least two other therapies for the disease. Velcade — the first FDA-approved proteasome inhibitor — reached the market in record time and represented the first treatment in more than a decade to be approved for patients with multiple myeloma.\n\nIn late December 2007, Millennium successfully submitted a supplemental new drug application (sNDA) to the FDA for Velcade for previously untreated multiple myeloma. The sNDA submitted to the FDA for this indication included data from the Phase III VISTA. study, a large, well-controlled international clinical trial, comparing a Velcade-based regimen to a traditional standard of care. Priority review was granted by the FDA in January 2008. On June 20, 2008, the FDA approved VELCADE in combination for patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma. This means that Millennium can market Velcade to patients who have not had any prior therapies for multiple myeloma (a first-line therapy).\n\nIn May 2008, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited purchased Millennium for $8.8 billion. Millennium was operating as an independent subsidiary, serving as the global center of excellence in oncology under its new name: \"Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company\". This global footprint includes oncology research and marketing strategy and oversight. In addition to Cambridge, MA, oncology resources include facilities in San Diego, San Francisco, Tsukuba and Osaka with Millennium as the global hub for this critical and rapidly expanding therapeutic area.\n\nIn summer 2013 the decision was made by Takeda to drop the \"Millennium\" brand effectively renaming the subsidiary into Takeda Oncology.\nHowever, Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc is still a legal holding of Takeda and its name is still used for on-going legal processes.\n\nVelcade is the first oncology drug marketed and promoted by Millennium. Velcade was granted FDA approval little more than four and a half years after initiation of the first clinical trial. To discover and develop such treatments, the Company focuses on key molecular pathways that play crucial roles in underlying disease processes, and on identifying therapeutically significant differences that may exist among people. Takeda Oncology applies this approach broadly throughout its R&D program to develop novel treatments not just for cancer but also for a number of other important diseases.\n\nVelcade was co-developed by Millennium Pharmaceuticals. and Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development. Takeda is responsible for commercialization of Velcade in the U.S. and Janssen-Cilag is responsible for commercialization in Europe and the rest of the world. Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. is responsible for commercialization in Japan. For a limited period of time, Takeda and Ortho Biotech. are co- promoting Velcade in the U.S. Approved in 85 countries, at least 85,000 patients have been treated with Velcade globally.\n\n"}
{"id": "893944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893944", "title": "Molly Millions", "text": "Molly Millions\n\nMolly Millions (also known as Sally Shears, Rose Kolodny, and others) is a recurring character in stories and novels written by William Gibson, particularly his Sprawl trilogy. She first appeared in \"Johnny Mnemonic\", to which she makes an oblique reference in \"Neuromancer\" (where she is mostly referred to as \"Molly\" with no last name given). Her most recent literary appearance was under the name \"Sally Shears\" in the book \"Mona Lisa Overdrive\".\n\nIn all three stories, Molly is a physically tough (but not instantly imposing) bodyguard/mercenary cyborg. She is referred to as a \"razorgirl\" or \"street samurai\" throughout his stories and also as \"Steppin' Razor\" by the residents of Zion, a Rastafarian enclave aboard a space station.\n\nA useful contact for dealing with gangs and black market elements, she tends to show little remorse for the opponents she ruthlessly dispatches in the course of her objectives. In fact she shows few deep emotions towards anyone outside of hatred, suspicion or amused contempt. Nevertheless, Molly is always regarded throughout the book as a loyal, morally strong character, opposed to the progressing decay of human relations in the world Gibson depicts.\n\nAn exception to her cold, somewhat cynical approach to life was her relationship with Johnny (of \"Johnny Mnemonic\"), for whom she still mourned at the time of \"Neuromancer\". This is part of the personal history she relates to its protagonist, Case, in addition to the revelation that she worked as a \"meat puppet\" (a prostitute) in a \"puppet parlor\" (a brothel where people loan out their bodies while maintained in a blanked-out state) to pay for her considerable cybernetic enhancements.\n\nAnother pseudonym, used when she rents a hotel room in \"Neuromancer\", is \"Rose Kolodny\", the name by which the Turing Police refer to her. The Turing Police may have simply gotten the name from the hotel's registry, but it is sometimes speculated to be her original name. The later trilogy books speculate that she is \"SINless\", having been an unrecorded birth and never having been issued a \"Single Identity Number\". This would give her the advantage of being more difficult to track in the cyberspace environment. Critic Larry McCaffery asserts that the name \"Molly\" is a reference to her status as a gun moll.\n\nWilliam Gibson has stated that he derived inspiration for the character from the image of Chrissie Hynde on the cover of the first Pretenders album.\n\nMolly's metabolism, sensory input, and reflexes are artificially heightened by means of electronic implants and other advanced medical procedures. She has razor-sharp retractable blades underneath her fingernails, each double-edged and four centimeters in length. Appearing at first glance to be wearing mirrored sunglasses, Molly has in fact had her eye sockets sealed with vision-enhancing mirrored lenses, installed by the skilled black-market surgeons of Chiba City. To accommodate the inset lenses her tear ducts have been re-routed to her mouth; on the very rare occasions she cries, she either spits out or swallows the tears. She never lets others touch the lenses as it would leave messy fingerprints requiring extra cleaning.\n\nThe 1995 film version of \"Johnny Mnemonic\" replaced Molly with a character named Jane who did not have modifications to her eyes or to her fingers. Jane did share the modified nervous system but used a single razor attached to the tip of flexible spring rod as a weapon.\n\nIn the 2003 BBC Radio adaptation of \"Neuromancer\", Molly was played by the English actress Nicola Walker. Sasha Grey took on the role in \"Case\", a six-hour dramatic contemporary adaptation of the novel staged in New York City in November 2009.\n\nMolly is the subject of a song called \"Mirrorshades\" by the group Information Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "16734076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16734076", "title": "Mother of the Forest", "text": "Mother of the Forest\n\nThe Mother of the Forest (667 BCE – 1854 CE) was an ancient and huge \"Sequoiadendron giganteum\" tree. The tree lived in the Sierra Nevada Mountains in eastern central California, United States. The dead tree's remains are within the Calaveras Grove of Big Trees State Park, in Calaveras County, California.\n\nWhen the 92 giant sequoias in the valley were discovered and documented in 1852 by Augustus T. Dowd, the Mother of the Forest was the second largest tree after the Discovery Tree, which in 1853 got the name The Big Stump. The Mother of the Forest was said to stretch into the air, with a girth of .\n\nAt the time of the California Gold Rush, people were searching California for undiscovered riches. As photography wasn’t developed enough yet to satisfy people’s curiosity, trees were felled and transported to big cities to prove their existence at great costs. In 1854 after unsuccessful exhibitions of the Discovery Tree, William Lapham, George L. Trask and George Gale set about to have the bark from the trunk of the Mother of the Forest removed, ready to be reassembled at exhibitions. Workers made holes in the tree using pump-augers, and inserted rods into the holes to support the weight of the scaffolding and the workers while the bark was sawed off. Over 90 days, 60 tons of bark was removed in high and wide sections up to the height of . The bark was thick at the base, and on average . Gale sent samples of the tree to foresters in the east where it was discovered to be 2,520 years old.\nThe removed sections of the bark were shipped by sea around Cape Horn to New York, where they were reassembled in 1855 in the shape of the tree for a \"vegetable wonders of the gold regions\" exhibition in the New York Crystal Palace. After New York, the bark was shipped in 1856 to London, where the sections accommodated by the building in Hyde Park attracted so much attention that all the sections were placed in their full length permanently in The Crystal Palace in London's Sydenham the next year. It was presented to the public as the trunk of a 3,000 year old tree, and was a financial success. It stayed there until the nave of the palace, along with the bark and other exhibits, were destroyed in a fire in 1866.\n\nThe Mother of the Forest in Calaveras Grove did not survive for long once the bark had been removed. In 1856 the tree still had full foliage, but within five years no leaves remained. The plan for the remaining tree was to build a spiral staircase around the bare section and create a vista for visitors high up in the tree. Hutchings’ 1886 book makes a mention of names and dates of visitors having been carved into the tree at different heights, especially at the top.\n\nIn 1908, with the tree unprotected by its fire resistant bark, a fire swept through the area and burned away much of what was left of the tree.\n\nDespite or due to the 1850s exhibitions, the destruction of the big trees was met with public outcry. In 1864, on introducing the bill that would become the Yosemite Grant, senator John Conness opined that even after people had seen the physical evidence of the Discovery Tree and the Mother of the Forest, they still didn’t believe the trees were genuine, and that the areas they were from should be protected instead. In 1903, after having spent several days under the Yosemite sequoias with John Muir, president Theodore Roosevelt gave a speech saying that \"As regards some of the trees, I want them preserved because they are the only things of their kind in the world.\"\n\nThe tree and its environments were owned by several lumber companies around the turn of the century, with plans to cut the remaining trees down, as sequoia and giant sequoia with their thick trunks were seen as great sources of lumber at the time. This again caused a chorus of public outcry by locals and conservationists, and the area continued to be treated as a tourist attraction. The Yosemite protection was gradually extended to most sequoias, and Calaveras Grove was joined to California State Parks in 1931.\n\nTo this day, what is left of Mother of the Forest stands as a large fire-blackened snag along the loop trail through the North Grove, at the far end of the loop. Saw marks made when the bark was cut away are still visible on the trunk, which stands over 100 feet tall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57483148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57483148", "title": "Nale Ba", "text": "Nale Ba\n\nNaale Baa (English: \"come tomorrow\") is a popular folk legend which features prominently in areas across Karnataka. \"Naale Baa\" has been found written on walls of small towns and villages (Rural Bangalore) for years now. Villagers write this on walls to deter the entry of malevolent spirit into their homes. In some variations of the myth, the spirit is believed to be a bridal ghost who roams around the town in search of her husband. She is known to take away the man of the house who is often the sole earning member of the family, therefore, bringing bad luck to the entire household.\n\nNaale Baa was an urban legend that went viral during the 1990s in Karnataka. The myth goes \"a witch roams the streets in the night and knocks the door. The witch apparently speaks in voices of your kin so you would be deceived to open the door. If you open it then you will die.\" So the residents came up with a smart idea of writing \"Naale Baa\" outside the doors and the walls of their house. So when the ghost reads it and it goes back to come again the next day and the cycle repeats.\n\nThe story of \"Naale Baa\" is one that has been passed down from generations. This word of mouth cautionary tale, warns men of the villages not to roam alone in the night. This began after stories of men disappearing during a certain time of the year emerged in various parts of India. The villagers then stumbled upon the idea of inscribing variations of the term \"naale baa bhoota\", which directly translates to \"Ghost come tomorrow\" or \"O stree, repu raa\" (hey lady, come back tomorrow) on the walls or doors after these mysterious disappearances.\n\nThere is no definite origin or proof of this tale, but superstition has lead villagers to still keep the tradition alive.\n\nThere was a renewed interest in her legend after reports of similar instances occurred in a village in Thailand wherein healthy young men began to disappear right under their beds in the night.\n\nThe 2018 Bollywood film \"Stree\", starring Shraddha Kapoor and Rajkumar Rao, is based on the 1990s Naale Baa tale from Karnataka.\n"}
{"id": "933503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=933503", "title": "Nanobe", "text": "Nanobe\n\nA nanobe is a tiny filamental structure first found in some rocks and sediments. Some scientists hypothesize that nanobes are the smallest form of life, 1/10 the size of the smallest known bacteria.\n\nNo conclusive evidence exists that these structures are, or are not, living organisms, so their classification is controversial.\n\nThe 1996 discovery of nanobes was published in 1998 by Philippa Uwins \"et al.\", from the University of Queensland, Australia. They were found growing from rock samples (both full-diameter and sidewall cores) of Jurassic and Triassic sandstones, originally retrieved from an unspecified number of oil exploration wells off Australia's west coast. Depths of retrieval were between and below the sea bed. While Uwins \"et al.\" present assertions against it, they do not exclude the possibility that the nanobes are from a surface contaminant, not from the rock units cited.\n\nThe smallest are just 20 nanometers in diameter. Some researchers believe that these structures are crystal growths, but the staining of these structures with dyes that bind to DNA might indicate that they are living organisms. They are similar to the structures found in ALH84001, a Mars meteorite found in the Antarctic. \nNanobes are similar in size to nanobacteria, which are also structures that have been proposed to be extremely small living organisms. However, these two should not be confused. Nanobacteria are thought to be cellular organisms, while nanobes are hypothesized to be a previously unknown form of life or protocells.\n\n\nA review in \"Microbes and Environments\" of the various ultra-small forms of proposed life states that the main criticism of nanobes is that they appear too small to contain the biochemical machinery needed to sustain life. The review also states that there is no evidence that nanobes are organisms in themselves and not fragments of larger organisms.\n\nTony Taylor was one of the authors of the original nanobe paper. He argues that the conspicuous lack of phosphorus in the X-ray spectroscopy data and the failure to find DNA using various DNA amplification techniques demonstrates that nanobes do not have any DNA or RNA. He also argues that they may have a completely different mechanism for heredity, which would account for many of their unusual chemical and physical properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17839480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17839480", "title": "Nasteh Dahir", "text": "Nasteh Dahir\n\nNasteh Dahir Farah (1972 or 1973 – June 7, 2008) was a Somali reporter, and vice-president of the National Union of Somali Journalists. He was murdered in Kismayo, Somalia, on June 7, 2008.\n\nDahir, described as a \"leading Somali journalist\", was a local correspondent in Somalia for the British Broadcasting Corporation and the Associated Press news agency. He received death threats before being murdered. He was shot by gunmen and died in a hospital in Kismayo. Reporters Without Borders stated that the killers had not been identified, but the BBC and Al Jazeera reported that the killing had been attributed to Islamist insurgents.\n\n"}
{"id": "37550913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37550913", "title": "Radial dysplasia", "text": "Radial dysplasia\n\nRadial dysplasia, also known as radial club hand or radial longitudinal deficiency, is a congenital difference occurring in a longitudinal direction resulting in radial deviation of the wrist and shortening of the forearm. It can occur in different ways, from a minor anomaly to complete absence of the radius, radial side of the carpal bones and thumb. Hypoplasia of the distal humerus may be present as well and can lead to stiffness of the elbow. Radial deviation of the wrist is caused by lack of support to the carpus, radial deviation may be reinforced if forearm muscles are functioning poorly or have abnormal insertions. Although radial longitudinal deficiency is often bilateral, the extent of involvement is most often asymmetric.\n\nThe incidence is between 1:30,000 and 1:100,000 and it is more often a sporadic mutation rather than an inherited condition. In case of an inherited condition, several syndromes are known for an association with radial dysplasia, such as the cardiovascular Holt-Oram syndrome, the gastrointestinal VATER syndrome and the hematologic Fanconi anemia and TAR syndrome. Other possible causes are an injury to the apical ectodermal ridge during upper limb development, intrauterine compression, or maternal drug use (thalidomide).\n\nClassification of radial dysplasia is practised through different models. Some only include the different deformities or absences of the radius, where others also include anomalies of the thumb and carpal bones. The Bayne and Klug classification discriminates four different types of radial dysplasia. A fifth type was added by Goldfarb et al. describing a radial dysplasia with participation of the humerus. In this classification only anomalies of the radius and the humerus are taken in consideration. James and colleagues expanded this classification by including deficiencies of the carpal bones with a normal distal radius length as type 0 and isolated thumb anomalies as type N.\n\nType N: Isolated thumb anomaly\nType 0: Deficiency of the carpal bones\nType I: Short distal radius\nType II: Hypoplastic radius in miniature\nType III: Absent distal radius\nType IV: Complete absent radius\nType V: Complete absent radius and manifestations in the proximal humerus\n\nThe term absent radius can refer to the last 3 types.\n\nIn cases of a minor deviation of the wrist, treatment by splinting and stretching alone may be a sufficient approach in treating the radial deviation in RD. Besides that, the parent can support this treatment by performing passive exercises of the hand. This will help to stretch the wrist and also possibly correct any extension contracture of the elbow. Furthermore, splinting is used as a postoperative measure trying to avoid a relapse of the radial deviation.\n\nMore severe types (Bayne type III en IV) of radial dysplasia can be treated with surgical intervention. The main goal of centralization is to increase hand function by positioning the hand over the distal ulna, and stabilizing the wrist in straight position. Splinting or soft-tissue distraction may be used preceding the centralization.\nIn classic centralization central portions of the carpus are removed to create a notch for placement of the ulna. A different approach is to place the metacarpal of the middle finger in line with the ulna with a fixation pin.\n\nIf radial tissues are still too short after soft-tissue stretching, soft tissue release and different approaches for manipulation of the forearm bones may be used to enable the placement of the hand onto the ulna. Possible approaches are shortening of the ulna by resection of a segment, or removing carpal bones. If the ulna is significantly bent, osteotomy may be needed to straighten the ulna. After placing the wrist in the correct position, radial wrist extensors are transferred to the extensor carpi ulnaris tendon, to help stabilize the wrist in straight position. If the thumb or its carpometacarpal joint is absent, centralization can be followed by pollicization. Postoperatively, a long arm plaster splinter has to be worn for at least 6 to 8 weeks. A removable splint is often worn for a long period of time.\n\nRadial angulation of the hand enables patients with stiff elbows to reach their mouth for feeding; therefore treatment is contraindicated in cases of extension contracture of the elbow. A risk of centralization is that the procedure may cause injury to the ulnar physis, leading to early epiphyseal arrest of the ulna, and thereby resulting in an even shorter forearm. Sestero et al. reported that ulnar growth after centralization reaches from 48% to 58% of normal ulnar length, while ulnar growth in untreated patients reaches 64% of normal ulnar length. Several reviews note that centralization can only partially correct radial deviation of the wrist and that studies with longterm follow-up show relapse of radial deviation.\n\nBuck-Gramcko described another operation technique, for treatment of radial dysplasia, which is called radialization. During radialization the metacarpal of the index finger is pinned onto the ulna and radial wrist extensors are attached to the ulnar side of the wrist, causing overcorrection or ulnar deviation. This overcorrection is believed to make relapse of radial deviation less likely.\n\nVillki reported a different approach in During this procedure a vascularised MTP-joint of the second toe is transferred to the radial side of ulna, creating a platform that provides radial support for the wrist. The graft is vascularised and therefore maintains its ability to join the growth of the supporting ulna.\n\nPrior to the actual transfer of the MTP-joint of the second toe soft-tissue distraction of the wrist is required to create enough space to place the MTP joint. When after several weeks enough space has been created through distraction, the actual transfer of the MTP joint can be initiated. During this surgical intervention the wrist and the second toe are prepared for transfer at the same time. The ipsilateral second toe MTP joint, together with its metatarsal arteries, its extensor and flexor tendons and its dorsal nerves to the skin, is harvested for transfer. The distal and middle phalanx of the toe are removed. The transferred toe, consisting of the metatarsal and proximal phalanx, is fixed between the physis of the ulna and the second metacarpal, or the scaphoid. \nThe tendons of the toe are attached to those of the radial flexor and extensors muscles of the wrist to create more stability to the MTP joint. K-wires are placed to fixate the bones in the desired position. Once the bones are secured anastomosis are made between the vessels of the toe and the vessels of the forearm. After revascularization of the toe, the skin paddle is placed and the skin is closed.\n\nVilkki et al. have conducted a study on 19 forearms treated with vascularized MTP-joint transfer with a mean follow-up of 11 years which reports an ulnar length of 67% compared to the contralateral side. De Jong et al. described in a review that compared to study outcomes on centralization, Vilkki reported a smaller deviation postoperatively and a lower severity of the relapse.\n"}
{"id": "319788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319788", "title": "Sandworm (Dune)", "text": "Sandworm (Dune)\n\nA sandworm is a fictional creature that appears in the \"Dune\" novels written by Frank Herbert.\n\nSandworms are colossal worm-like creatures that live on the hot desert planet Arrakis. Arrakis is the only known source in the Universe of the spice \"melange\", a drug highly prized for its medicinal and psychotropic properties. \"Melange\" deposits are found in the sand seas of Arrakis, where the sandworms live and hunt. Sandworms will attack anyone who attempts to extract \"melange\" from the sand, and some are large enough to swallow harvesting vehicles whole. Most people accept sandworms as an inevitable hazard of \"melange\" harvesting, because they are nigh-indestructible and \"melange\" is in fact a byproduct of their life cycle. The natives of Arrakis (the Fremen) regard them as sacred.\n\nThe sandworms in \"Dune\" were inspired by the dragons of European mythology that guard some sort of treasure. Favorites of Herbert included the dragon in \"Beowulf\" which guarded a hoard of gold, and the dragon of Colchis which guarded the Golden Fleece from Jason. Like these dragons, the sandworms of Arrakis \"guard\" the \"melange\" deposits and are a perpetual hazard for those who wish to harvest this treasure. In the novels, the sandworms are occasionally referred to as \"dragons of the desert\".\n\nIn the plot of Herbert's 1965 novel \"Dune\", sandworms provide the danger and mystery of \"terra incognita\", and the transformational experience that the protagonist Paul Atreides must go through to triumph over his enemies. Herbert believed great power and knowledge must come at some sort of price, and so Paul must risk being devoured by a sandworm and then madness after consuming sandworm extract (the Water of Life).\n\nTo escape the notice of the sandworms, a traveller in the desert must learn to \"walk without rhythm\", because sandworms mistake rhythmic vibrations in the sand for prey (i.e. smaller sandworms). This element comes from Frank Herbert's experiences as a hunter and fisherman. He knew how to mask his presence from prey by techniques such as approaching from downwind and treading lightly.\n\nJohn Schoenherr provided the earliest artwork for the \"Dune\" series, including the illustrations in the initial pulp magazine serial and the cover of the first hardcover edition. Frank Herbert was very pleased with Schoenherr's art, and remarked that he was \"the only man who has ever visited Dune\". Schoenherr gave the sandworm three triangular lobes that form the lips of its mouth. This design was referenced for the sandworm puppets that appeared in the 1984 movie adaptation of \"Dune\".\n\nSandworms are animals similar in appearance to colossal terrestrial annelids and in other ways to the lamprey. They are cylindrical worm-like creatures with a fearsome array of crystalline teeth that are used primarily for rasping rocks and sand. During his first close encounter with a sandworm in \"Dune\", Paul notes, \"Its mouth was some eighty meters in diameter ... crystal teeth with the curved shape of crysknives glinting around the rim ... the bellows breath of cinnamon, subtle aldehydes ... acids ...\"\n\nSandworms grow to hundreds of meters in length, with specimens observed over long and in diameter, although Paul becomes a sandrider by summoning a worm that \"appeared to be\" around half a league (2,778 meters = 9121 ft) or more in length. These gigantic worms burrow deep in the ground and travel swiftly; \"most of the sand on Arrakis is credited to sandworm action\".\n\nSandworms are described as \"incredibly tough\" by Liet-Kynes, who further notes that \"high-voltage electrical shock applied separately to each ring segment\" is the only known way to kill and preserve them; atomics are the only explosive powerful enough to kill an entire worm, with conventional explosives being unfeasible as \"each ring segment has a life of its own\". Water is poisonous to the worms, but is in too short supply on Arrakis to be of use against any but the smallest of them.\n\nThe quasi-canonical \"Dune Encyclopedia\" invents a scientific name for the sandworm: \"Geonemotodium arraknis\" (also \"Shaihuludata gigantica\").\n\nHerbert notes in \"Dune\" that microscopic creatures called sand plankton feed upon traces of melange scattered by sandworms on the Arrakeen sands. The sand plankton are food for the giant sandworms, but also grow and burrow to become what the Fremen call Little Makers, \"the half-plant-half-animal deep-sand vector of the Arrakis sandworm\".\n\nTheir leathery remains previously having \"been ascribed to a fictional sandtrout in Fremen folk stories\", Imperial Planetologist Pardot Kynes had discovered the Little Makers during his ecological investigations of the planet, deducing their existence before he actually found one. Kynes determines that these \"sandtrout\" block off water \"into fertile pockets within the porous lower strata below the 280° (absolute) line\", and Alia Atreides notes in \"Children of Dune\" that the \"sandtrout, when linked edge to edge against the planet's bedrock, formed living cisterns\". The Fremen themselves protect their water supplies with \"predator fish\" that attack invading sandtrout. Sandtrout can be lured by small traces of water, and Fremen children catch and play with them; smoothing one over the hand forms a \"living glove\" until the creature is repelled by something in the \"blood's water\" and falls off.\n\nThe sandtrout are described as \"flat and leathery\" in \"Children of Dune\", with Leto II Atreides noting that they are \"roughly diamond-shaped\" with \"no head, no extremities, no eyes\" and \"coarse interlacings of extruded cilia\". They can find water unerringly, and squeezing the sandtrout yields a \"sweet green syrup\". When water is flooded into the sandtrout's excretions, a pre-spice mass is formed; at this \"stage of fungusoid wild growth\", gases are produced which result in \"a characteristic 'blow', exchanging the material from deep underground for the matter on the surface above it\". After exposure to sun and air, this mass becomes melange.\n\nKynes' \"water stealers\" die \"by the millions in each spice blow\" and may be killed by even a \"five-degree change in temperature\". He notes that \"the few survivors entered a semidormant cyst-hibernation to emerge in six years as small (about three meters long) sandworms\". A small number of these then emerge into maturity as giant sandworms, to whom water is poisonous. A \"stunted worm\" is a \"primitive form ... that reaches a length of only about nine meters\". Their drowning by the Fremen makes them expel the awareness-spectrum narcotic known as the Water of Life.\n\nWhile sandworms are capable of eating humans, the latter do contain a level of water beyond the preferred tolerances of the worms. They routinely devour melange-harvesting equipment—mistaking the mechanical rhythm for prey—but they only seem to derive actual nutrition from sand plankton and smaller sandworms. Sandworms will not attack sandtrout.\n\nIn \"Children of Dune\", Leto II's prescient visions illuminate his Golden Path, his plan for the continued survival of mankind and the sandworms. After consuming massive amounts of spice, he allows many sandtrout to cover his body, the concentration of spice in his blood fooling the creatures:\n\nThis layer gives Leto tremendous strength, speed, and protection from mature sandworms, which mistake his sandtrout-covered body for a lethal mass of water. He calls it a \"living, self-repairing stillsuit of a sandtrout membrane\", and soon notes that he is \"no longer human\".\n\nGradually over the next 3,500 years, Leto not only survives, but also is transformed into a hybrid of human and giant sandworm. By the time of \"God Emperor of Dune\", he has exterminated all other sandworms, and his own transformation has modified his component sandtrout. When Leto allows himself to be assassinated, the sandtrout release themselves to begin the sandworm lifecycle anew; subsequent offspring are tougher and more adaptable than their predecessors, allowing them to ultimately be more easily settled on other worlds, thus ensuring the survival of the sandworm species. Each one, according to Leto, carries in it a tiny pearl of his consciousness, trapped forever in an unending prescient dream.\n\nOver the next 1500 years, Arrakis (now called Rakis) is returned to a desert by the thriving sandworm cycle. Bene Gesserit Mother Superior Taraza becomes aware in \"Heretics of Dune\" that humanity is being limited by the prescient dream of Leto, and controlled by him through his worm remnants. She engineers the destruction of Rakis by the Honored Matres to free humanity, leaving one remaining worm to start the cycle anew. Taraza is killed; her successor Darwi Odrade takes the worm to Chapterhouse. She submerges it in a spice bath to generate sandtrout, with the goal of populating Chapterhouse, and later other planets, with new worms and infinite potential for gathering spice.\n\nIn the \"Prelude to Dune\" prequel trilogy by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson (1999–2004), the Tleilaxu initiate Project Amal, an early attempt to create synthetic melange to eliminate dependence upon Arrakis. They are fundamentally unaware, however, that melange production is part of the sandworm lifecycle, and the project is an abysmal failure.\n\nIn \"Sandworms of Dune\", Brian Herbert and Anderson's 2007 conclusion to the original series, the Spacing Guild is manipulated into replacing its Navigators with Ixian navigation devices and cutting off the Navigators' supply of melange. Sure to die should they be without the spice, a group of Navigators commissions Waff, an imperfectly awakened Tleilaxu ghola, to create \"advanced\" sandworms able to produce the melange they so desperately require. He accomplishes this by altering the DNA of the sandtrout stage and creating an aquatic form of the worms, which are then released into the oceans of Buzzell. Adapting to their new environment, these seaworms quickly flourish, eventually producing a highly concentrated form of spice, dubbed \"ultraspice\". Meanwhile, sandworms are revealed to have survived the devastation of Rakis after all, by burrowing deep under the surface.\n\nIn \"Dune\", the desert of Arrakis is the only known source of the spice melange, the most essential and valuable commodity in the universe. Melange is a geriatric drug that gives the user a longer life span, greater vitality, and heightened awareness; it can also unlock prescience in some subjects, depending upon the dosage and the consumer's physiology. This prescience-enhancing property makes interstellar travel (\"folding space\") possible. Melange comes with a steep price however: it is highly addictive, and withdrawal is a fatal process.\n\nA by-product of the sandworm life cycle, sandtrout excretions exposed to water become a pre-spice mass, which is then brought to the surface by a buildup of gases and develops into melange through exposure to sun and air. Liet-Kynes describes such a \"spice blow\" in \"Dune\":\n\nCollecting the melange is hazardous in the extreme, since rhythmic activity on the desert surface of Arrakis attracts the territorial worms, which are capable of swallowing even the largest mining equipment whole. Harvesting is carried out by a gigantic machine called a Harvester, which is carried to and from a spice blow by a larger craft called a Carryall. The Harvester on the ground has four scouting ornithopters patrolling around it watching for wormsign—the motions of sand indicating that a worm is coming. Melange is collected from the open sand until a worm is close, at which time the Carryall lifts the Harvester to safety. The Fremen, who base their entire industry around the sale of spice and the manufacture of materials out of spice, have learned to co-exist with the sandworms in the desert and harvest the spice manually for their own use and for smuggling off-planet.\n\nLater in the series, an artificial method of producing the spice is discovered by the Bene Tleilax, who develop in secret the technology to produce melange in axlotl tanks. Still, the technology is not fully successful in pushing natural melange out of the marketplace.\n\nDue to the value of melange, attempts have been made to transplant production onto other planets. However, placing either adult sandworms (often smuggled with funds going to the Fremen) or sandtrout into existing deserts always met with failure. The large salt flats of Arrakis indicate that it was not always a desert, but once had oceans. As spice production relies on the existence of a complete sandworm cycle, transplanting adult worms prevents the spice cycle from beginning anew with sandtrout, and transplanting sandtrout alone into existing desert denies them the necessary water to begin the cycle. Thus, placing sandtrout on a water-rich planet would allow them to start the complete spice cycle, at the cost of turning the planet into a desert, another Dune.\n\nIn \"Heretics of Dune\", the Honored Matres destroy Arrakis and the Tleilaxu, in part to eliminate spice production and thus irrevocably damage the Old Empire. However, they are thwarted by the Bene Gesserit, who escape with a single sandworm. Mimicking the devolvement of the God Emperor Leto II, they submerge the worm in spice-rich water, causing it to fission into its component sandtrout. The Bene Gesserit soon use the sandtrout to terraform their own planet Chapterhouse into another Dune, and send countless others out into space to colonize other planets.\n\nDue to their size and territorial nature, sandworms can be extremely dangerous even to Fremen. The worms are attracted to—and maddened by—the presence of Holtzman force fields used as personal defense shields, and as a result these force fields are of little use on Arrakis. In \"Children of Dune\" it is noted that a weapon has been developed on Arrakis called a \"pseudo-shield\". This device will attract and enrage any nearby sandworm, which will destroy anything in its vicinity.\n\nThe Fremen manage to develop a unique relationship with the sandworms. They learn to avoid most worm attacks by mimicking the motions of desert animals and moving with the natural sounds of the desert, rather than the rhythmic vibration patterns that attract worms. However, they also develop a device known as a thumper with the express purpose of generating a rhythmic vibration to attract a sandworm (see worm charming). This can be used either as a diversion, or to summon a worm for the Fremen to ride.\n\nThe Fremen have secretly mastered a way to ride sandworms across the desert. First, a worm is lured by the vibrations of a thumper device. When it surfaces, the lead worm-rider runs alongside it and snares one of its ring-segments with a special \"maker hook\". The hook is used to pry open the segment, exposing the soft inner tissue to the abrasive sand. To avoid irritation, the worm will rotate its body so that the exposed flesh faces upwards, carrying the rider with it. Other Fremen may then plant additional hooks for steering, or act as \"beaters\", hitting the worm's tail to make it increase speed. A worm can be ridden for several hundred miles and for about half of a day, at which point it will become exhausted and sit on the open desert until the hooks are released, whereupon it will burrow back down to rest. The worm-riding ritual is used as a coming-of-age ritual among the Fremen. Worm-riding is used by Paul-Muad'Dib during the Battle of Arrakeen for troop transport into the city after using atomic weapons to blow a hole in the Shield Wall.\n\nAfter the reign of Leto II, sandworms become un-rideable, for reasons elaborated above. The one remarkable exception is a young girl named Sheeana, an Atreides descendant who possesses a unique ability to control the worms and safely move around them.\n\nFremen use the sharp teeth of dead sandworms to produce the sacred knives they call crysknives. Approximately 20 centimeters long, these hand-to-hand weapons are either \"fixed\" or \"unfixed\". An unfixed knife requires proximity to a human body's electrical field to prevent its eventual disintegration, while fixed knives are treated for storage.\n\nFremen tradition dictates that once a crysknife is drawn, it must not be sheathed until it has drawn blood.\n\nBesides film and television adaptations, the \"Dune\" franchise has been adapted into a series of computer and video games in which sandworms play a part.\n\n\"(also relevant to \"Battle of Arrakis\" version of Dune II)\"\n\nThrough each Great House's campaign, Sandworms will make their presence known from the third battle, generally two or three per scenario. Roaming under the surface of Dune, they are attracted to vibrations, and thus the movement of units, and will actually pursue and devour the victim immediately when they reach it. This can be fatal when the Sandworms consume all the player's Harvesters; as there is no \"Sell buildings\" option in \"Dune II\", having no credits whatsoever and being unable to replace devoured Harvesters is a straight defeat. However, Sandworms cannot (and will not) distinguish between friendly and enemy units, so they will also devour enemy infantry and vehicles, even Fremen. In \"Dune II\", their movement speed is medium, light vehicles and Combat Tanks can escape, but Harvesters, heavy vehicles and infantry are in constant danger. Sandworms, however, will remain idle and harmless until the player discovers them. If there are no units on sand, the Sandworm will come to a standstill and will wait until someone sets foot on sand.\n\nGetting rid of Sandworms is possible, but tricky. First, they can only be fought from rocks. The Sandworm lures the attacking units into a great desert, and then turns against them, so chasing them down is futile. Apart from that, Sandworms are extremely resilient for most types of weapons, and immune to Deviator and spice mounds. It requires a combined fire of several heavy vehicles to make a Sandworm go away. Units and base defensive turrets will automatically fire at the Sandworm when it moves within range (except the Atreides in the early version of \"Dune II\"). Eventually, after the Sandworm has eaten enough vehicles, or its energy is drained to yellow, it will disappear and never emerge again. The radar marks them as a pulsating white dot.\n\nSand worms behave differently in Dune 2000 than in its predecessor. They can not be selected, nor their health is displayed. Their movement sight is more grainy rather than vibrating, and lightning bolts can be seen where the worm is. Their appearance is constant from the very first mission to the very end, and every multiplayer/practice map has 3 or more Sand worms (they can be turned off in multiplayer and practice).\n\nJust like in Dune II, they have a voracious appetite, and will swallow vehicles, regardless of if it's the player's or the enemy's, and after swallowing 5 or so units, they will disappear for a short time. They are immune to spice mounds and Deviator gas as well. However, unlike in Dune II, they will re-emerge sooner or later, and will continue to roam the sands of Dune (yet, they will be a lot less aggressive). Dune 2000 Sand worms will not consume infantry, has significantly slower movement speed, and don't need to be alerted by the player. The radar shows the worm as a single white dot.\n\nTaking a Sand worm out in Dune 2000 is simpler. In multiplayer mode, a certain type of infantry (Thumper infantry) can distract the worms' attention by deploying his thumper on the sand, attracting the worms, who will start circling around him. These worms are deadly to approach. Killing the Sand worm is time-consuming, it requires armor-piercing weapons. Troopers, Missile tanks and Devastators can nullify a Sand worm, as well as Rocket turrets.\n\nTowards the end of the real-time strategy game \"\", it is revealed that both the Tleilaxu and the Spacing Guild have been secretly experimenting with the sandworms of Arrakis in a remote research facility in the desert as the three great Houses of the Landsraad, the Atreides, Ordos and Harkonnen, are busy waging the War of Assassins amongst each other. It appears that the Tleilaxu have discovered the link between the Spice Melange and the sandworms as mentioned above. They plot to seize the Golden Lion Throne by breeding a man-worm, known as the Emperor Worm, and then fusing it with the Water of Life, mercilessly taken from the Lady Elara — who was held prisoner by the Reverend Mother (in truth a Tleilaxu Face Dancer) since the beginning of the game — giving the Worm almost god-like powers.\n\nAll three Houses fight against the Guild in a race against time to destroy the Emperor Worm before it awakens, with a different ending for each House depicting their units destroying the Worm. One such ending reveals that, from the wreckage of the Emperor Worm's scaffold, red eyes are glowing in the dark, which perhaps suggests that the Worm survives. Should the player fail to defeat the Emperor Worm, then it becomes crowned as the new leader of the Empire of Man.\n\n"}
{"id": "12514724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12514724", "title": "Shakereh Khaleeli", "text": "Shakereh Khaleeli\n\nShakereh was born in Madras (27 August 1947 - missing April 1991 - declared deceased May 1994 ) into an aristocratic Persian Muslim family from Shiraz in Persia who were residing in Singapore. She was the daughter of Gulam Hussain Namazie by his wife Gauhar Taj Begum, the youngest daughter of Sir Mirza Ismail, the longest serving Diwan of Mysore, Jaipur and later Hyderabad. She is also the grand-daughter of Mohammad Namazi successful businessman who built his empire in Iran, Singapore and America he is greatly respected for his philanthropic work and many charitable organisations in India, Singapore and Iran namely the Namazi Hospital. \n\nShakereh's did her schooling in Singapore as her parents resided there and had family interests in business, horses and charitable endeavours. In 1965, at age 18, Shakereh fell in love and married her first cousin Akbar Mirza Khaleeli from Madras their mothers were sisters Shah Taj Begum and Gauhar Taj Begum both daughters of Sir Mirza Ismail. They have four daughters, Zeebundeh Khaleeli in 1966 Madras, Sabah Bakache 1967 Delhi, Rehane Yavar Dhala 1969 Paris, France and Esmath Khaleeli 1972 Amman, Jordan. \n\nAkbar Mirza Khaleeli, was an outstanding sportsman and student through school Bishop Cotton Boys' School and later Doveton Corrie Protestant Schools Association, studied law at Loyola College, Chennai. He was considered the best Tennis Player in South India bar Ramesh Krishnan with great potential to be an all India Champion but decided to follow in his grandfathers footsteps and serve India instead. He sat for the entrance exams and was accepted into both the IFS and IAS but decided to join the Indian Foreign Service in 1954. He went on to serve in various posts in Delhi, Bagdad, Sri Lanka, Paris and Jordan. He was finally promoted to serve as Indian Ambassador to Iran 1980-1985 Italy and High Commissioner to Australia. His expertise lies in Middle Eastern affairs and is often consulted where big decisions are to be made by both Corporates and Government to date. Shakereh was with him through most of his postings save Iran because of the Iranian revolution she did not feel it was the right environment for her young daughters to be exposed to so early in their lives. \n\nWhile her husband was in Iran representing the country she had to find something substantial to stay occupied with along with the children who were now all between the ages of 8-16. It was at this point she decided to move to Bangalore and pursue her love for construction which she shared with her great grandfather Aga Ali Asker who is still known for some of the most fabulous buildings across Bangalore. At the age of 37 with 4 young daughters in tow she began her first venture which was to build the family home on Sankey Road, Abshot Layout and thereafter built her mothers house on Ali Asker Road single handedly with little help at a time where sand and bricks were impossible to procure. After this was done she turned her attention to the other family properties for development and evicting tenants who had outstayed their welcome. \n\nShe was greatly admired by the muslim community and those who interacted with her. She was an example to young muslim women in the community and was considered a progressive muslim woman. \nIn 1991, Sabah, Shakereh's second daughter, found that she was unable to locate her mother. Despite repeated requests about Shakereh's whereabouts to her mother's second husband Murali Manohar Mishra, also known as Swami Shradhananda, he consistently avoided giving a proper answer. In 1992, Sabah's anxiety grew and she filed for a \"habeas corpus\" at the Ashok Nagar Police Station in Bangalore, Karnataka. For three years, the Swami evaded questions from the family, friends and legal authorities of the state. He lived in Bangalore like a king, pretending his wife was on a perpetual holiday.\n\nIn May 1994, the police of Karnataka finally found Shakereh's body (rather skeletal remains) buried deep in the courtyard of her own house. Shakereh's murder was one of the most heinous crimes of Indian criminal history. When the murder was disclosed, it shook the nation.\n\nShakereh had been placed in the coffin-like box on 28 April 1991. She had been drugged asleep, placed on a mattress within the coffin-like box and covered with another mattress, suffocating her to death. She died unconscious, confined to a constricted space and buried by the man whom she trusted implicitly. When Shakereh's skeletal remains were recovered and the mattress was removed, one of her hands was found clutching the mattress which lay below her. The side of the box was scratched with her nails, perhaps in an attempt to get out, probably suffocating in the last pangs of breath.\n\nThe Swami was taken into judicial custody after accepting the crime. The case also became an important milestone in the Indian judicial system as it was the first case where the exhumation process was recorded on video. The case was also the first time that DNA tests and videotapes of the exhumation were taken as evidence in India.\n\nOn 21 May 2005 the Civil and Sessions Judge B.S. Totad sentenced Swami with a verdict of capital punishment. \"He shall be hanged to death\", the judge ordered. Shraddhananda betrayed no emotions as he stood in the dock, his head drooping as always. \"From the facts and circumstances of the case, it is clear that the said murder has created such a fear in the minds of the family and in the community to live peacefully in society. There are no mitigating circumstances or factors to award a lesser punishment. After taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case and having regard to the nature of the methodology in committing the murder for gain, it is a fit case for capital punishment\", the order read. \"I am of the opinion that it falls under the bracket of the rarest of the rare cases and hence he be sentenced to death,\" the judge observed in the 300-page judgment. The judge directed the jail authorities not to execute the death sentence until they received confirmation from the high court.\n\nIn the high court, on 12 September 2005, a two bench judge composed of Justices S.R. Bannurmath and A.C. Kabbin awarded the death penalty to Shradananda. Terming it the \"rarest of rare cases\" in their order, the division bench composed of Justices S R Bannurmath and A C Kabbin, said: \"The accused had murdered his wife in a diabolical and a well-planned scheme. As such, the death penalty imposed on him is liable to be confirmed. Anything less than a penalty of greatest severity for any serious crime is thought to be a measure of tolerance that is unwarranted and unwise. The sessions court is justified in awarding death penalty to the accused.\" Shraddhananda is a \"menace to the society and beyond reform\". In addition, Justices S.R. Bannurmath and A.C. Kabbin stated, \"in our view, the death was not a violent act by a weapon or attack, but the act was more violent since the mind of such a scheming person can be dangerous.\" \"A person who plans in a cool and cunning manner ought to be hanged as there is no chance of his reformation. Shakereh was a helpless woman, and her trust was broken,\" the bench said. \"Such scheming persons cannot be reformed. His conduct before and after the crimes shows that it (murder) had been planned methodically and carried out coolly and mercilessly. He has killed a person who had implicit faith in him and buried her unceremoniously\" the verdict said.\n\nOn 18 February 2006, Shradananda issued notice to the Karnataka Government on special leave petition (SLP) questioning the high court judgment in September 2005. The Supreme Court Bench of Justice Ashok Bhan and Justice Tarun Chatterjee, stayed the high court judgment, confirming the death sentence. On 22 July 2008, a life sentence for Shraddhananda was ordered by the Indian Supreme Court in New Delhi.\n\n"}
{"id": "12447991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12447991", "title": "Social entropy", "text": "Social entropy\n\nSocial entropy is a sociological theory that evaluates social behaviours using a method based on the second law of thermodynamics. The equivalent of entropy in a social system is considered to be wealth or residence location. The theory was introduced by Kenneth D. Bailey (sociologist) in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "59210781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59210781", "title": "Soul house", "text": "Soul house\n\nSoul houses were pottery offering trays often moulded to include a model of a house that are associated with tombs dating from the Egyptian middle kingdom. Designs range from simple trays with no house at all to ones which included a comprehensive model of a house. As well as the house there would be clay depictions of food offerings. Some have spouts allowing liquid to be ritually poured over the soul house and flow away. \n\nIt has been suggested they were used to mark the tomb on the surface. Another suggestion was that the house was meant to be a place for the dead person’s kꜣ to live although this theory has become less popular over time with the modern view being that the trays were primarily meant to provide food offerings or rather clay models of them.\n\nThe model houses have been used as a source for what typical houses of the time would have looked like.\n"}
{"id": "335213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335213", "title": "Tamagotchi", "text": "Tamagotchi\n\nThe is a handheld digital pet, created in Japan by of WiZ and Aki Maita of Bandai. It was released by Bandai on November 23, 1996 in Japan and May 1997 in the rest of the world, quickly becoming one of the biggest toy fads of the 1990s and early 2000s. Up until 2010, over 76 million Tamagotchis had been sold worldwide. As of 2017, over 82million units have been sold. Most Tamagotchi are housed in a small egg-shaped computer with an interface usually consisting of three buttons, although the number of buttons may vary.\n\nAccording to Bandai, the name is a portmanteau combining the two Japanese words , which means \"egg\", and the end of \"watch\". Consequently, the name is sometimes romanized as \"Tamagotch\" without the \"i\" in Japan. Most Tamagotchi characters' names end in in Japanese, with few exceptions.\n\nTamagotchi was invented by Aki Maita for which she won the 1997 Ig Nobel Prize for economics. Tamagotchi is a keychain-sized virtual pet simulation game. The characters are colorful and simplistically designed creatures based on animals, objects, or people. Beginning with the 2004 Tamagotchi Plus/Connection, a second wave of Tamagotchi toys emerged, featuring a different graphic design by JINCO and gameplay which elaborated upon the first generations. However, the story behind the games remained the same: Tamagotchis are a small alien species that deposited an egg on Earth to see what life was like, and it is up to the player to raise the egg into an adult creature. The creature goes through several stages of growth, and will develop differently depending on the care the player provides, with better care resulting in an adult creature that is smarter, happier, and requires less attention. Gameplay can vary widely between models, and some models, such as TamagoChu, require little to no care from the player.\n\nUpon activating the toy, an egg appears on the screen. After setting the Tamagotchi unit's clock, the egg will wiggle for several minutes, and then hatch into a small pet. In later versions, inputting the player's name and birthday is also required when setting the clock, and at birth, the player can name the pet and learn of its family group and/or gender. The player can care for the pet as much or as little as they choose, and the outcome depends on the player's actions. The first Tamagotchis could only be paused by going to set the clock, effectively stopping the passage of time in the game, but in later models a pause function was included.\n\nPets have a Hunger meter, Happy meter, Bracelet meter and Discipline meter to determine how healthy and well behaved the pet is. There is also an age and weight check function for the current age and weight of the pet. Filling up the Hunger meter can be achieved by feeding the pet a meal (usually a loaf of bread) or a snack (usually a piece of candy). Filling up the Happy meter can be achieved by playing mini games with the pet or by feeding it a snack (there are no limits to this, but there are limits to how many meals can be fed). Mini games vary between versions, but mainly involve guessing which way the pet will turn (left or right) within 5 tries. The Discipline meter can be filled by pressing the \"scold\" option when a pet calls for attention but refuses to play or be fed a meal. The pet will leave droppings around the screen from time to time, and can become sick if they are not cleaned up. Before the pet goes to the bathroom, it will make a face and stink lines will appear around it. If the player activates the toilet icon during this animation, but before the pet has gone to the bathroom, the pet will use a toilet instead. When done repeatedly, the pet can be potty trained.\n\nIf the pet gets sick, a skull icon appears next to the pet as it sits still at the bottom of the screen, with an unhappy expression. The pet can become sick for a number of reasons such as overfeeding of snacks or failing to clean up droppings. The pet can die if sickness is left unchecked. The pet can be cured by pressing the \"Medicine\" option. Usually a pet will not play or be fed a meal when sick.\nPets would often fall asleep during the night time. Originally players had the option of manually turning off the light when the pet fell asleep (it would turn on the light by itself when it awoke). In order to raise a healthy pet, players were encouraged but not required to turn off the lights when the pet fell asleep. In recent versions, the pet turns off the light on its own when it went to sleep. Recent versions also allow waking the pet for a short time once it has fallen asleep. V5 had the three children look outside on the window when they wake up in the morning and before bed at night.\n\nThe pet goes through several distinct stages of development throughout its life cycle. Each stage lasts a set amount of time, depending on the model of the toy, and when it reaches a new stage, the toy plays a jingle, and the pet's appearance changes. The pet can \"die\" due to poor care, old age, sickness, and in a few versions, predators. The pets life cycle stages are Baby, Child, Teen, and Adult. Later Tamagotchi models have added a Senior model. Usually the pet's age will increase once it has awakened from its sleep time.\n\nPoor care can cause a pet to die, but it can also die of old age. If an old pet dies without producing offspring, the family line has ended. The Japanese Tamagotchi toys usually feature a ghost and headstone when the pet dies, but English language versions have been changed to show an angel at death, or simply a floating UFO to indicate its return to its home planet. Often at times it will show the transition graphic, after which it will show the pet appearing to be sick, but with the skull flashing, beeping as it flashes. It then will show a happy version of the pet flashing with a longer beep, with an egg on the right side of the screen, after which it will show the pet as an angel (as indicated above). Pressing the middle button shows the age at which the pet died. After the pet dies, one can restart from the beginning by pressing A and C.\n\nIn recent models, the player earns currency called Gotchi Points while playing games, and can use the currency in an in-game shop to buy different foods, toys, accessories, or even room decorations for the pet.\n\nUsing infrared communication, two players can link their toys and the pets may form friendships, play games, exchange gifts, and even marry. Infrared connection was introduced with the Plus/Connection, but the Japanese Chou Jinsei Enjoy Tamagotchi was the first model to interact with a computer. Since then, many subsequent models have also been able to interact with the E-Tamago or Tamatown websites by using alphanumeric codes generated by the toy to log into the website's Flash game. After generating a code, the toy remains paused until the player either enters a logout code or cancels. The player may play minigames in the town to earn Gotchi Points, or use Gotchi Points to buy items in the town shops. To transfer points and items back to the toy, the player signs out of the Flash game and is given a code to input back into the toy. Newer models, such as the Tamagotchi 4U and the Tamagotchi 4U+ can connect to other Tamagotchi 4U units, as well as smartphones and tablets, using near field communication. Unlike previous models, the Tamagotchi 4U does not have infrared, which consequently caused it to sell rather poorly.\n\nThe Mesutchi and Osutchi Tamagotchis were the first to introduce marriages and offspring, and the feature returned in the Plus/Connection and subsequent models. Two players with a male and female pet may link their toys and allow the pets to develop a friendship and fall in love. Once the pets have raised their relationship meter sufficiently, the pets may marry. The player can also choose to have their pet marry a random pet brought in by the \"Matchmaker.\" Once married, the female will eventually produce two eggs, keeping one and leaving one with the male. Since the parent will automatically guide the baby's life, the only care it needs from the player is medicine in the case of sickness. After a few days the parent will leave, and the player is left to care for a new generation. This can continue for as long as the player manages to care for the pets.\nThe Chou Jinsei Enjoy Tamagotchi also introduced the idea of character \"families\" or \"groups.\" These \"families\" are a kind of classification for characters obtainable in the game, grouped mainly by appearance, though they are also associated with certain skills. A character of one group cannot grow into an adult of a different group, and if two pets of different groups marry and have an egg, the baby will be of the female's group. \"Tamagotchi M!X\", the latest Japanese release, has a notable change to this feature; in this release, Tamagotchi offspring have merged traits from both of their parents.\n\nWith the many different versions of the toy, there are other less common mechanics that influence the pet's growth, including but not limited to friendship with the player, varying types of skills, and career.\nThe Chou Jinsei Enjoy Tamagotchi also introduced Skills, which can be built by playing certain games with the pet, or using certain toys or foods bought from the E-Tamago or in-game shops. Having certain skills can help the pet obtain a career, and if built up high enough, can unlock special characters.\n\nAs of 2009, there have been over 44 Tamagotchi versions released since their creation in 1996, several of which were only released in Japan. Along with the original Tamagotchi, the first wave of Tamagotchi toys included Christmas, angel, and ocean themed versions. The newer versions began in 2004 with the Tamagotchi Plus, and the most recent version is the Japanese \"Tamagotchi M!X\".\n\nInternationally, in 2013, \"Tamagotchi Friends\" is the latest model, featuring a grayscale screen and a new NFC feature that enables owner to \"bump\" their Tamagotchi to trade items. An upgrade, called \"Tamagotchi Friends: Dream Town Digital Friend\", was released in 2015. It has additional features, but can only be bought at online stores due to a lack of retailer interest in the product.\n\nIn early 2013, Bandai released an enhanced version of the original 1996 Tamagotchi as a free iOS and Android app named \"Tamagotchi L.i.f.e.\". A sequel to the game, \"Tamagotchi L.i.f.e. Angel\", was released on February 26, 2014.\n\nSince its debut, Tamagotchi has made its way onto several gaming platforms. Several early games feature gameplay similar to the original toys. A few party-style games appeared on major consoles, along with the \"Corner Shop\" series of simulation games and a few role playing games for the Nintendo DS.\n\nConsole & Handheld Games:\nMobile & PC Games:\nThe character Mametchi makes an appearance in Namco Bandai/Nintendo's \"Mario Kart Arcade GP 2\" as a playable character, along with his pet, Bagubagutchi, as an item. Mametchi and Yumemitchi also appeared in the arcade game \"Taiko no Tatsujin\" as unlockable costumes.\n\nAn arcade machine known as TamaStation is available in Japan from which players can win prizes for their Tamagotchi toy. This machine has several sequels, such as TamaStation 2.\n\nOn June 5, 2007, it was announced by Reuters that an animated Tamagotchi film was to be released in December 2007. The film, \"\", focuses on Mametchi, along with his friends Memetchi and Kuchipatchi. Introduced are Tanpopo, a human girl who Mametchi accidentally transports to the Tamagotchi Planet; and Chamametchi, the younger sister of Mametchi who is born during the film's events. \"Tamagotchi: The Movie\" was released on December 15, 2007, and was distributed by Toho Co. The film opened at number 3 at the box office on opening weekend. On May 31, 2008, North American distributor Bandai Entertainment announced they had acquired the rights to the film. The movie's first English release was a direct-to-DVD version, released on June 3, 2009 in Australia by Madman Entertainment. The UK DVD was released on September 14, 2009 via Manga Entertainment.\n\nOn December 20, 2008, a second film, known as \"\" was released into theaters. This film, introducing a new Tamagotchi known as Hapihapitchi, was later released on DVD, on June 26, 2009. Unlike the first film, \"Happiest Story in the Universe\" has not been dubbed in English, but an extremely rare English dub existed in the Philippines. Madman Entertainment intended to dub \"Happiest Story in the Universe!\", but the dub was cancelled for unknown reasons.\n\nOn November 1, 2016, Bandai announced a new Tamagotchi short film called \"Tamagotchi: Secret Delivery Operation\". The film was theatrically released alongside the \"\" film on April 28, 2017, and was included in the \"Cocotama\" movie's DVD released on December 6th, 2017. The short film once again follows Mametchi and his friends, assigned to make an essential delivery to the Gotchi King when a giant mechanical claw controlled by the Spacy Brothers intervenes with the delivery.\n\nA Japanese-only anime series called \"Anime TV de Hakken!! Tamagotchi\" (アニメ TVで発見!! たまごっち, lit. \"Found on Anime TV!! Tamagotchi\") aired from July 7, 1997 to March 21, 1998 on Fuji TV.\n\nIn December 2007, Bandai Japan began airing \"Saa Ikō! Tamagotchi\" (さぁイコー！たまごっち) a week before the release of the first film. In December 2008, Bandai America dubbed the series, \"Let's Go! Tamagotchi\", and began streaming it on YouTube in both English and Japanese, with captions for up to seven other languages.\n\nIn 2009, another anime television series was announced, called \"Tamagotchi!\" (たまごっち!). It began in October 2009 and ended in March 2015. A short-lived English dub of the Tamagotchi anime aired in Australia on channel GO! from 2010-2014; only the first 26 episodes have been dubbed and have been repeated until 2014, when GO! took the anime out of their channel. The anime has been dubbed in Tagalog in the Philippines. There is also a dub in Taiwan airing on YoYo TV.\n\nFrom November 23, 2013 to December 2014, Bandai America has been adapting the second Tamagotchi anime, \"Tamagotchi! Yume Kira Dream\", into \"webisodes\" promoting the latest addition to the franchise outside Japan, \"Tamagotchi Friends\".\n\nAn animated video, Tamagotchi Video Adventures, was produced by 7th Level, Inc. in association with Bandai in 1997. Directed by Dan Kuenster, produced by Susan Deming and written by Kuenster, Deming and David Lewman. It runs approximately 42 and a half minutes long. Cosmotchi sends the Tamagotchi to Earth to collect an object that best exemplifies the planet for the Tamagotchi Museum. An original animated music video (\"What's a Tamagotchi?\") and a how-to-draw Tamagotchi featurette, starring director Kuenster follow the movie.\n\n\nDuring the 1990s, children frequently took Tamagotchi digital pets to school because in the first two releases (Generation 1 and Generation 2), a character could die in less than half a day if it did not receive adequate care. Concerns over class disruption as well as general distraction from schoolwork eventually prompted many schools to ban the product.\n\n"}
{"id": "10099846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10099846", "title": "The Billion-Dollar Molecule", "text": "The Billion-Dollar Molecule\n\nThe Billion-Dollar Molecule is a book by journalist Barry Werth about the founding and early research efforts of the American biotechnology company Vertex Pharmaceuticals, which was founded in 1989 by Joshua Boger and was among the first biotechnology companies to adopt an explicit strategy of rational drug design as opposed to techniques based on combinatorial chemistry.\n\nThis book is notable as an inside look at a biotechnology company, and the stresses and marketing pressures on funding research into drug design. This book is a mixture of finance and technology.\n\nIn February, 2014, Barry Werth published a follow-on book, \"The Antidote\", that looks at Vertex 20 years later after his original effort.\n"}
{"id": "47715585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47715585", "title": "Tiger Black", "text": "Tiger Black\n\nErnest Harold 'Tiger' Black OBE (1918-1983) was an Australian rugby league player from the 1930s and later a rugby league broadcaster and commentator.\n\nBorn and raised at Arncliffe, New South Wales, Ernie 'Tiger' Black began playing rugby league with his local Arncliffe Scots club in the early 1930s. He played Presidents Cup with St. George Dragons and was graded in 1937. He was a tenacious hooker, standing only 5 ft 1in (155 cm) and weighing only 60 kg. He raked against the biggest players of his day, always holding his own. Due to his small stature, and fearless disposition, he became forever known by the nickname 'Tiger'.\n\nBlack was a member of the Dragons' 1938 premiership winning reserve grade side - the first St. George Dragons team to win a premiership. He played several first grade games in 1940 before painful kidney and back injuries curtailed his career at the age of 22. Upon retirement, 'Tiger' Black moved into club administration, and held many offices at St George over a number of years. In latter years he was a Director of the St. George Dragons.\n\nIn 1946, 'Tiger' Black became a rugby league broadcaster with Sydney Radio station 2UW. Later, he moved to 2UE and lastly to 2KY. With 2KY, Black traveled the world many times, broadcasting Kangaroo Tours and World Cup matches. He is remembered alongside his great friend Frank Hyde, as one of the greatest rugby league callers of the 1950s and 1960s.\n\n'Tiger' Black collapsed at his beloved St. George League Club on 30 August 1983, and died shortly afterwards. A hugely attended funeral at St. Davids Church Arncliffe, preceded his burial at Woronora Cemetery, Sutherland, New South Wales on 2 September 1983.\n\n'Tiger' Black was awarded Life Membership of the St. George Dragons in 1965 and he was awarded an OBE - (British Empire Medal) in 1976 in recognition of service to sport. In 2014, 'Tiger' Black was inducted in the Sydney Cricket Ground Media Hall Of Honour for service to the media. \n"}
{"id": "1425015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1425015", "title": "Tomorrowland", "text": "Tomorrowland\n\nTomorrowland is one of the many themed lands featured at all of the Magic Kingdom styled Disney theme parks around the world owned or licensed by The Walt Disney Company. Each version of the land is different and features numerous attractions that depict views of the future. Disneyland Park in Paris includes a similar area called Discoveryland, which shares some elements with other Tomorrowlands but emphasizes visions of the future inspired by Jules Verne.\n\nWalt Disney was known for his futurist views and, through his television programs, showed the American public how the world was moving into the future. Tomorrowland was the realized culmination of his views. In his own words: \"Tomorrow can be a wonderful age. Our scientists today are opening the doors of the Space Age to achievements that will benefit our children and generations to come. The Tomorrowland attractions have been designed to give you an opportunity to participate in adventures that are a living blueprint of our future.\"\n\nIt is this movement into the future that has, on occasion, left Tomorrowland mired in the past. Disneyland's Tomorrowland is now in its third generation, and the Magic Kingdom's Tomorrowland is in its second. The Walt Disney Company has mentioned that it wanted to keep Tomorrowland from becoming \"Yesterdayland\". As a self-referential joke along this line, the 2007 Walt Disney Animation Studios film \"Meet the Robinsons\" (which is set mainly in the year 2037) features an amusement park called \"Todayland\", which has rides that look similar to Space Mountain and Disneyland's original Rocket Jets.\n\nThe first Tomorrowland opened at Disneyland on July 17, 1955, with only several of its planned attractions open, due to budget cuts. The construction of the park was rushed, so Tomorrowland was the last land to be finished. It became something of a corporate showcase, despite Walt Disney's reluctance. Monsanto Company, American Motors, Richfield Oil, and Dutch Boy Paint were some of the many companies to open showcases in Tomorrowland in the first few years. \n\nSince the park was on a strict budget, one cost-cutting idea was to reuse the sets of the \"Nautilus \"from Disney's 1954 movie \"20,000 Leagues Under the Sea\" as a walkthrough attraction. This remained open until 1966. For the first four years, most of Tomorrowland was generally open space and considered to be very corporate-fueled. However, the area gained more attractions as time passed, many of which have since been removed.\n\nWhen Disneyland opened, Tomorrowland represented the future in the year 1986.\n\nTomorrowland's showpiece was the TWA Moonliner, derived from Disney's \"Man In Space\" television episodes developed in the 1950s. The Moonliner was the tallest structure in the park at the time, even taller than the park icon Sleeping Beauty Castle. The Moonliner hosted Rocket To The Moon which was a ride to the moon. The entrance showpiece was the clock of the world showing the time anywhere on earth. The north show building hosted Circarama U.S.A. which showed movies on nine screens, and space station X-1 which showed a satellite view of America. The south show building showed the Monsanto Hall of Chemistry, which was a walk-through tour about chemistry. Autopia, an opening-day attraction, gave visitors a view of the National Interstate System that was to be built in the future. The attraction still remains open today, though it has been modified and rebuilt several times. This is the only attraction in Tomorrowland that has been open since opening day.\n\nSeveral new attractions opened in 1955. Among them were Tomorrowland Boats, The World Beneath Us, which showed the Earth's geology, and the Aluminum Hall of Fame, sponsored by Kaiser Aluminum. The final Tomorrowland attraction to open in 1955 was The Flight Circle which demonstrated methanol-powered model planes, boats and cars.\n\nIn 1956, Tomorrowland Boats were renamed Phantom Boats, and were closed later in the year. Dutch Boy Color Gallery opened in 1956, and sponsored Dutch Boy Paint. Two major attractions opened in 1956: the Astro Jets, where guests were able to fly their own rockets, and Skyway to Fantasyland, where guests rode \"Buckets\" over to Fantasyland.\n\nIn 1957, the Monsanto House of the Future, a plastic house with four wings cantilevered from a central plinth, was built. This was similar to precursors at previous World's Fairs, though those were simply homes furnished with modern conveniences and aimed at housewives. Disneyland's attraction displayed conveniences such as picture phones and television remote controls, and it introduced many people to their first microwave oven. The Viewliner also opened where guests could ride in \"the fastest miniature train in the world.\" It closed the next year making it the shortest lived Disney attraction ever.\n\nIn 1959, three major attractions, the park's first billed E-ticket attractions, opened at Tomorrowland. These were the Disneyland Monorail, Submarine Voyage, and the Matterhorn (which later became part of Fantasyland). These additions were collectively so large in scope that they were televised as the second opening of Disneyland. New attractions came and some went as Walt Disney focused his efforts on the 1964–65 New York World's Fair. After the Fair closed, he turned his attention to a new Tomorrowland and the Florida Project, which would later become Walt Disney World.\n\nBy 1966, Tomorrowland was becoming quickly outdated. Most of its attractions were only there as advertisements for various sponsors, such as Monsanto, despite the 1959 Tomorrowland expansion. In 1967, the area was completely rebuilt with new attractions and scenery. The original layout was demolished, with a few exceptions, and a new set of buildings were erected. The addition of the Carousel of Progress, Adventure Thru Inner Space, an improved and larger Circle-Vision auditorium, Flight to the Moon, and the PeopleMover helped give Tomorrowland its \"World on the Move\" theme.\n\nIn 1973, \"The World On The Move\" began to change. General Electric decided to close Carousel of Progress, which later reopened at a new home in Walt Disney World in 1975 as part of its expansion. In 1974, with the American Bicentennial approaching, Disney designers seized the opportunity of the vacant carousel theater to present a large musical extravaganza called America Sings, which featured 114 Audio Animatronics. The following year, Flight to the Moon was updated into Mission to Mars, as actual flights to the moon had become a reality since the former's construction.\n\nIn 1975, construction began on Walt Disney's proposed 1965 \"Space Port\". In May 1977, this project opened to the public as Space Mountain. The same year, the Super Speed Tunnel was added as part of the Peoplemover experience, as the Epcot model that was formerly in the building moved to Florida.\n\nIn 1984, Circle-Vision 360 received a brand new travelogue of the United States, to replace the aging \"America The Beautiful\" film – American Journeys.\n\nIn 1986, two new attractions found homes in Tomorrowland: Star Tours and Captain EO. Captain EO replaced the Space Stage in September 1986, and Star Tours replaced Adventure Thru Inner Space in January 1987. Aside from the Skyway closing in 1994, Tomorrowland remained largely unchanged for much of the following decade until it was redesigned in 1998.\n\nIn 1993, The Walt Disney Company planned a major refurbishment, \"Tomorrowland 2055\". This Tomorrowland was planned to have more of an extraterrestrial theme, and was going to replace Mission to Mars with ExtraTERRORestrial Alien Encounter. In 1994, however, this plan was scrapped due to the poor initial financial performance of Euro Disneyland.\n\nBetween the years of 1995 - 1998 several Tomorrowland attractions were slated to be closed or remodeled. The Peoplemover, The Rocket Jets, Mission to Mars, Circle-Vision 360, Captain EO and the Starcade were all permanently closed or planned for renovation. At this time, most of these attractions were left vacant or walled off from the public.\n\nIn 1995, the cost of an adult day pass at Disneyland was $34.00, and a Disneyland Annual Pass was $99.00. There was only one type of annual pass—as opposed to the current tiered system—and most Southern California locals had passes. Tomorrowland quickly became a local hang out for many local junior high and high school teenagers residing in Southern California. Teenagers congregated near the Tomorrowland Terrace, which featured a live band every night.\n\nTomorrowland became so synonymous with Southern California teenagers at that time, popular bands began to reference the local scene in their music. New Wave/Ska group No Doubt, named their 1995 break through album \"Tragic Kingdom,\" in which the titled track opens with the \"remain seated\" warning from Matterhorn Mountain. Ska band Jeffries Fan Club (1997) wrote a song called \"12,\" about a high school boy who meets a 12-year-old girl at Disneyland, and Pop-Punk band the Ataris (1998) \"San Dimas High School Football Rules,\" was about the lead singer going to Disneyland with a girl he met and getting on all the rides.\n\nThis influx of teenagers did cause some negative consequences to the park. Disneyland had to employ more security because many of the teenagers were not respectful to the families visiting the park. To combat the issue of mischievous locals, Disneyland made minor changes, including an increase to both one-day and annual passes. Tomorrowland officially began its renovation in 1995. The three-year makeover started only two years after the park’s last major project: the construction of Mickey’s Toontown. The land was not completely closed off the entire time, but major sections were blocked off to guests, and the entrance was finally walled up in 1997. As construction waged on, rumors about possible new attractions went rampant. Guests wondered if Tomorrowland would start to phase out transportation and space travel (its second main focus after home technologies in the 50s) in favor of a brand new theme. By the first months of 1998, New Tomorrowland was at the forefront of every Disneyland fan’s mind, and the springtime opening drew major crowds. When Tomorrowland re-opened Disneyland had raised prices and many of the locals either moved on or aged out of using Tomorrowland as a \"hang out.\"\n\nTomorrowland reopened in 1998, loosely based on the retro-futurist concepts of Jules Verne that Disneyland Paris's Discoveryland featured. The entire land was painted in bronzes, golds, and dark browns, with occasional green highlights. New landscaping featured apparent vegetable plots and made reference to \"neo-agrarian\" concepts. The flagship attraction of the makeover was the Rocket Rods, which attempted to run a fast-paced ride on the former slow-paced PeopleMover track; the ride closed three years later due to intractable mechanical problems.\n\nMany of the attractions remained fundamentally the same, but Circle-Vision, Captain EO, and Mission to Mars were all removed. The space formerly occupied by Circle-Vision was partly used for the queue of the Rocket Rods, while Captain EO was replaced by Honey, I Shrunk the Audience and Mission To Mars was replaced by a restaurant called Redd Rockett's Pizza Port. The Rocket Jets attraction was redressed as a moving sculpture called the Observatron, while a similar attraction called the Astro Orbiter was placed at ground level in the entrance of Tomorrowland where the World Clock once stood. The former America Sings theater became Innoventions, a technology showcase based on the Walt Disney World: EPCOT original. The famous Tomorrowland attraction Space Mountain, which had been a gleaming white color for more than twenty years, was re-painted a copperish-brown color to go along with the redesign of Tomorrowland.\n\nFollowing the opening of the New Tomorrowland for the summer of 1998, the Submarine Voyage was closed in September.\n\nIn late 2003, Matt Ouimet became president of the Disneyland Resort and sought to change some of the cost-cutting trends that had become the \"status quo\" there. Space Mountain was closed for two full years while the ride was refurbished and repainted white, the original color of the attraction, and the track was completely replaced by a new track with the same track plan. The former Rocket Rods queue building was converted into Buzz Lightyear Astro Blasters for a 2005 opening.\n\nIn February 2005, Walt Disney Imagineering approved a repaint of Tomorrowland for the \"Happiest Homecoming on Earth\" 50th anniversary celebration. This new paint scheme resembled the 1967 Tomorrowland with predominantly white, blue, and silver, although some of the former gold and bronze colors were kept. The largest remainder from the 1998 color scheme was the Astro Orbitor until mid-2009, when it was repainted to match the rest of the land, and mechanisms that once caused its top to rotate properly were repaired.\nIn 2007, as part of the Year of a Million Dreams, the Submarine Voyage reopened as Finding Nemo Submarine Voyage, with the submarines fully refurbished and repowered with batteries rather than diesel engines and a theme based around the 2003 film \"Finding Nemo\"\n\nAlso in 2007, the Disneyland Monorail began phasing out its Mark V fleet of monorails in order to reverse engineer and upgrade the Mark V's to the new Mark VII models. The new Mark VII's were phased in one at a time, beginning with Red and Blue in 2008 and Orange in 2009; Purple was confirmed not to undergo an upgrade and was scrapped. These new monorails were to pay homage to the original Mark I, II, and III monorails while retaining a modern, futuristic look. The previous Mark V monorail class of trains bore more of a resemblance to the Mark IV and Mark VI monorail classes of trains used on the Walt Disney World Monorail System.\n\nIn January 2010, \"Honey, I Shrunk the Audience\" closed to make way for a revived \"Captain EO\", which \"re-opened\" due the large public backing the 3D film had received upon Michael Jackson's death in June 2009. It was a limited engagement (albeit with no set closing date), and eventually closed in July 2014 to use the theatre to present a preview of Marvel Studios' \"Guardians of the Galaxy\". Later, starting on 26 September 2014, the Magic Eye theatre was used to present a preview of Walt Disney Animation Studios' \"Big Hero 6\", set to have ended on 21 November 2014.\n\nIn July 2010, Disneyland's \"Star Wars\"-themed motion simulator attraction \"Star Tours\" was closed to make room for its sequel, \"Star Tours—The Adventures Continue\". The new ride, which featured other \"Star Wars\" destinations in 3-D, opened on June 3, 2011.\n\nOn March 21, 2015 Innoventions closed to become transformed into the Tomorrowland Expo Center. The building was closed and converted which reopened to guests on November 16, 2015. The first floor of the building hosts the \"Star Wars Launch Bay\", a new Star Wars exhibit with character meet and greets, displays featuring movie props and various sneak peeks behind the scenes of Star Wars: The Force Awakens and the two other future Star Wars films. The second floor formerly hosted the \"Super Hero HQ\", featuring meet and greets with Marvel characters Iron Man, Thor and Spider-Man with several displays from Innoventions remaining, but redressed to display Marvel's various television series and comic strips.\n\nAt the 2015 D23 Expo, Disney announced that on November 16, 2015, Tomorrowland would launch a \"Star Wars\"-themed \"Season of the Force\", in celebration of \"\". Among the changes launched as part of the event were the new attraction \"Star Wars\" Launch Bay—an exhibition showcasing artwork and other materials related to the franchise, a \"Star Wars Rebels\"-themed update of Jedi Training Academy known as , the addition of \"The Force Awakens\"-related content to Star Tours–The Adventures Continue, and a \"The Force Awakens\"-themed Space Mountain overlay known as Hyperspace Mountain. Autopia also closed for a short period of time, but reopened in early 2016, with a new blue and silver color scheme to better fit current day Tomorrowland and a new sponsorship with Honda.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe second Tomorrowland opened on October 1, 1971 at the Magic Kingdom in the Walt Disney World Resort, Florida, and, like at Disneyland, was opened unfinished. On opening day, only two attractions opened: the Grand Prix Raceway, and the Skyway to Fantasyland.\n\nTomorrowland was noted for being very barren and sterile at this time, due to the land being very flat and undetailed. A large orange wall was located past the two large show buildings, and blocked guests from walking further than the Skyway building. The wall had a small stage built into it, and a large outdoor food court sat adjacent to it to compensate for a lack of food venues at the time. It was removed within two years and the Carousel of Progress took its place.\n\nThe largest counter service restaurant in the Magic Kingdom was the Tomorrowland Terrace. America the Beautiful opened in November, and Flight to the Moon opened late on Christmas Eve, 1971, due to technical problems. The south show building received an expansion in 1972, which housed If You Had Wings. The south building was further expanded in 1973, opening the Plaza Pavilion, which was an open-air restaurant, and served as a convenient way of getting from Main Street to Tomorrowland quickly.\n\nIn 1973, the plans for Tomorrowland were finalized; and for about two years, construction was a common sight. In 1974, Star Jets, a spinner attraction sat on the WEDWay Peoplemover station. It resembled a Saturn V Rocket like its Disneyland cousin, the Rocket Jets. The ride vehicles between the two had some differences. The Disneyland Rockets were more narrow and resembled the central Saturn V rocket more, while the Magic Kingdom's vehicles look more like jets, hence the name \"Star Jets\".The Space Bar, another restaurant opened below the Peoplemover station.\n\nThe next year, Space Mountain and The Carousel of Progress opened on January 15. This was the first Space Mountain to open. It was the first totally indoor roller coaster in Florida and was the first roller coaster to have computer aided designs and use zoning to have 8 trains on the track at a time. Another Railroad station was planned to be built next to the entrance and exit to Space Mountain, but due to crowds in this area, it was never built. Carousel of Progress opened on the same day, and was similar to Disneyland's version except it rotated in the opposite direction. It also had a different song. Instead of \"There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow\", the song \"The Best Time of Your Life.\" In June, the second version of the WEDWay Peoplemover opened. This Peoplemover bore resemblance to Disneyland's, but was different, in that it used linear induction motors. This means that guests could not get stuck to the tracks as they could at Disneyland if they happened to fall out of the vehicle. The only moving parts of the vehicles were the wheels and the sliding doors. The track was similar but instead of it being open air and the vehicles having roofs, the opposite is true here. Unlike Disneyland's, the Peoplemover here never changed height. \nThis Tomorrowland somewhat resembled Disneyland's Tomorrowland at the time, with large white buildings and clean geometric shapes. The triangular buildings at Disneyland were fully realized, and the opening of the Tomorrowland here had two enormous pylons which cascaded water down into the castle moat. Complimenting the Pylons were two large blue triangular walls which also released water into the moat. These waterfalls were often shut off as the slightest change of wind could spray water all over guests. In the early 80's the Waterfalls were turned off for good, and a large mosaic was painted on the blue walls, and some blue stripes were painted on the two pylons.\n\nThe colors of Tomorrowland were mainly whites complimented with ochre on the outside. The interior of the buildings were accented with reds, oranges, yellows, and browns. In Old Tomorrowland's later years, the outside colours were changed to pinks, and blues around the Peoplemover tracks.\n\nTomorrowland went through a drastic change in 1994. It now resembles Tomorrowland from Disneyland in California slightly, but with more color. Many of the attractions changed. Some classic Tomorrowland attractions that have closed in Disneyland still live on at the Magic Kingdom Park, including the Tomorrowland Transit Authority PeopleMover and the Carousel of Progress, which was moved from Disneyland to Walt Disney World in 1975. A portion of Walt Disney's model display of the Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow, the first incarnation of what would become Epcot, is also used as a display visible only from the Tomorrowland Transit Authority PeopleMover.\n\nFor most of its history, Tomorrowland's color scheme was predominantly white with soft blues, creating a retro-modernist landscape. Huge monolithic towers, spires, and clean lines completed the futuristic look. In 1994, using inspiration from Discoveryland at Disneyland Paris, Tomorrowland was completely re-built and altered to resemble a galactic spaceport as it would have been envisioned by the science-fiction comic strips of the early 20th century, like Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers. Tomorrowland has since been given a much more metallic look, along with new darker blues and purples, especially along its main concourse leading from the central hub.\n\nInteresting to note is that the spaceship atop the Cool Scanner misting station is actually a prop from the 1986 film \"Flight of the Navigator\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTokyo Disneyland's Tomorrowland was designed as a loose copy of Disney World's original Tomorrowland, particularly the main entryway which features nearly identical waterfalls and blue spires flanking the walkway. As is the case with other areas of Tokyo Disneyland, Tomorrowland has fewer attractions and more open spaces than its American counterparts, a move designed to facilitate a larger number of park guests. Notably missing is a PeopleMover-type attraction, whose tracks and ride vehicles have been conspicuous features of other Tomorrowland landscapes.\n\nAlthough Walt Disney intended the original Tomorrowland in California and the original Tomorrowland in Florida to be a \"living blueprint\" of the future and Roy Oliver Disney intended the original Tomorrowland in Florida to be a \"living blueprint\" of the future, Tokyo Disneyland's Tomorrowland never directly showcased future technology, instead opting for more of a science fiction theme. Prominent attractions supporting this theme include Space Mountain and Star Jets, as well as the Pan Galactic Pizza Port, a restaurant that features a large audio-animatronic pizza-making machine operated by a whimsical alien creature named Tony Solaroni. In recent years, older attractions have been replaced with newer ones that feature movie tie-ins: Buzz Lightyear's Astro Blasters and Monsters, Inc. Ride & Go Seek are two examples.\n\nIn October 2014, the Oriental Land Company announced a large expansion of New Fantasyland. The expansion includes closing the Grand Circuit Raceway, making Tomorrowland significantly smaller.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDisneyland Park in Paris has a Tomorrowland with an entirely different concept, Discoveryland. European culture was used distinctively in the park and Discoveryland uses the ideas of famed European thinkers and explorers such as Leonardo da Vinci or H. G. Wells, with Jules Verne featured most prominently. This land was heavily inspired by the abandoned Disneyland concept \"Discovery Bay\", which would have sat at the north end of the park's Rivers of America. An example of an attraction is Space Mountain Mission 2, an enclosed outer space themed roller coaster with a tongue, which is a 2 inversion element, a corkscrew and objects made to look like planets and asteroids.\n\nArchitecturally designed using Jules Verne's vision of the future as inspiration, the land is laid out very differently from its predecessors. Many Tomorrowland classics are featured in Discoveryland, such as Autopia and Orbitron, some in an altered way, but is changed the most. Its theme is Steampunk/Clockpunk, with elements of Raygun Gothic.\n\nOriginally conceived as Discovery Mountain, it was originally proposed to hold more than one attraction, including an improved version of Horizons from Epcot, a larger Nautilus walk-through complete with a restaurant and a free-fall ride based on \"Journey to the Center of the Earth\". But due to budget cuts, it opened in 1995 as \"Space Mountain: De la Terre à la Lune\" (From the Earth to the Moon). Beside the Space Mountain show building is the Nautilus Lagoon, with a walk-through recreation of the Nautilus submarine from \"20,000 Leagues Under the Sea\".\n\nThe showcase attraction on opening day was a Circle-Vision 360 film, titled \"Le Visionarium\". The attraction featured an eccentric time-traveling robot and his robotic assistant, who take Jules Verne into the world of today, which is pictured as the future he dreamed of. The attraction was later exported to both the Magic Kingdom and to Tokyo Disneyland.\n\nSpace Mountain was completely refurbished in 2005 for the Happiest Celebration on Earth, with a new soundtrack and special effects. Buzz Lightyear Laser Blast opened April 8, 2006, in the former building of Le Visionarium, which closed in September 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLike the newer generations of the American Tomorrowlands, Hong Kong's version features an emphasis on metallic trim, with lots of blue and purple hues. Currently under construction outside the berm to the south of Autopia is Iron Man Experience, the first Disney attraction to be based on a Marvel property, featuring Tony Stark recruiting guests to fend off extraterrestrial beings from attacking Hong Kong. In August 2014, UFO Zone was suspended in preparation for \"Tomorrowland Party Zone\", a stage as part of \"Disney's Haunted Halloween\" event during the expansion of \"Iron Man Experience\".\n\nAs part of \"Star Wars: Tomorrowland Takeover\" event since June 2016, the first three expansion attractions were all closed. In April 5, UFO Zone has been closed in preparation for that premiered in June 25. In May 2, Stitch Encounter was closed and re-themed to \"Star Wars: Command Post\". In June 11, when the event started, Autopia was closed.\n\nIn October 22, 2016, a new shop named \"Expo Shop\" was opened, it is between \"Jedi Training: Trials of the Temple\" and \"Buzz Lightyear Astro Blasters\". The land will close in 2023 to make way for the new Marvel land.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nShanghai Disneyland's Tomorrowland is the newest, opening with the resort on June 16, 2016. Unlike the other 5 Tomorrowlands around the world, this Tomorrowland does not feature Space Mountain, and instead features the TRON Lightcycle Power Run. Instead of a classic spinning rockets attraction, Shanghai's park includes a spinning Jet Packs ride. There is a new version of Disney's popular Buzz Lightyear dark ride called Buzz Lightyear Planet Rescue, utilizing new technology different from that of the versions of the ride located at other Disney parks. TRON Realm opened on September 20, 2016 to make it the first expansion for the park.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2798319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2798319", "title": "Viewing (funeral)", "text": "Viewing (funeral)\n\nIn funeral services, a viewing (sometimes referred to as calling hours, reviewal, funeral visitation or a wake in the United States, Canada and Ireland) is the time that the family and friends come to see the deceased after they have been prepared by a funeral home. It is generally recommended (however not necessary) that any body to be viewed be embalmed in order to create the best possible presentation of the deceased. A viewing may take place at the funeral parlor, in a family home or at a church or chapel prior to the actual funeral service. Some cultures, such as the Māori of New Zealand, often take the body to the Marae or tribal community hall.\n\nViewing is sometimes combined with a service called a wake although in some places the term wake is interchangeable with viewing. Many authorities consider the viewing important to the grieving process as it gives a chance to say goodbye on a personal level. It can also make it easier to accept the reality of the death, which can often seem unreal especially in the industrial world where death is handled by professionals and the family may only know of a death through phone calls rather than experiencing it as it occurs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14353845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14353845", "title": "William Astill", "text": "William Astill\n\nWilliam Astill was a Nottingham cricketer in 1825. Details of his birth and death are unknown. He played for Nottingham in their important match against Bury St Edmunds at Rougham Park on 12 September 1825.\n"}
