{"id": "423755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423755", "title": "Administrative divisions of Portugal", "text": "Administrative divisions of Portugal\n\nAdministratively, Portugal is \"de jure\" unitary and decentralized state. Nonetheless, operationally, it is highly centralized system with administrative divisions organized into three tiers. The State is organized under the principles of subsidiarity, local government autonomy, and democratic decentralization of the public service.\n\nThe government structure is based on the 1976 Constitution, adopted after the 1974 Carnation Revolution. In addition to defining the status of the autonomous regions () Azores and Madeira (Articles 225-234), the Constitution specifically identifies the three tiers of government (Article 235-262): civil parishes (\"freguesias\"), municipalities (\"municípios\") and administrative regions ().\n\nIn addition, the Portuguese territory was redefined during European integration, under a system of statistical regions and subregions known as Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics. These NUTS definitions, used for collecting statistical information, follow many of the country's border definitions. Although utilized by the Portuguese government, they do not have a legal status in law.\n\nThe current administrative divisions of Portugal, are the 18 Districts and the 2 Autonomous Regions.\n\nThere are 18 districts in mainland Portugal:\nThe distribution of Portuguese districts is nominally homogeneous, although there are outliers (Beja for example is 4.6 times larger than the smallest district, Viana do Castelo). But these divisions bely the inadequacies and disparities that exist within the country: the distribution of population and gross domestic product between territorial units are markedly different. The district of Beja, for example, represents approximately 11.5% of the area of Portugal, while Viana do Castelo is less than 2.5%. But, in comparison, Beja represents only 1.6% of the population of Portugal.\n\nPortugal is primarily a seafaring nation, and traditionally human settlement has congregated along the coastline, so much so that the coastal districts, while being relatively small, were disproportionately larger by population. The six largest districts (with the exception of Santarém) are the six districts with the smallest populations and common character: a frontier with Spain. Of these interior districts, which represent 63.8% of the nation and have a population that is less than two million residents, is only marginally less than the population of the district of Lisbon.\n\nThe district system dates back to 25 April 1835, a creation of the Liberal government, and inspired by the French \"départements\", with the objective to facilitate the action of government and permit access to the authorities.\n\nThe district is the most relevant and historically significant subdivision of the nation's territory; it serves as the basis for a series of administrative divisions, such as electoral constituencies or district football associations, as well as being a socially recognizable territorial division of the country.\nIn 1976, Portugal was divided into 18 districts and two autonomous regions (the Azores and Madeira), consisting of 308 municipalities (), which in turn were divided into 4257 local government authorities ().\n\nArticle 291 of the 1976 Constitution defined the districts as a transitional level of administration, awaiting the formation of the administrative regions. In the period between 2003 and 2013 the whole continental territory of Portugal was subdivided into metropolitan areas and intermunicipal communities, which rendered the districts obsolete. As a consequence of these constitutional revisions the \"district\" has been removed from the legal framework, but remains an important and relevant division for other entities. Similarly, it is still recognized by the general public.\n\nSince 1976, Portugal conceded political autonomy to its North Atlantic archipelagos (Madeira and Azores) due to their distance, isolation, geographical context and socio-economic circumstances. The regional autonomies have their own organic laws, regional governments and administration, overseen by a Regional Government (), that constitutes a Regional Cabinet, comprising a President () and several Regional Secretaries ().\n\nThe Azores () is an archipelago of nine islands and several islets that were discovered and settled by the Portuguese in the late 15th century. The Azores lies a third of the distance between Europe and North America, along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. The government and administration of the archipelago is distributed between the three capitals of the former districts of the Azores: the regional parliament is located in the city of Horta (on Faial Island); Ponta Delgada (on São Miguel Island) is the most populous city and home to the Regional Presidency and administration; while Angra do Heroísmo (on Terceira Island), the historical and cultural capital, is the home of the Azorean judiciary and seat of the Diocese of the Azores.\n\nMadeira is an archipelago that includes two principal islands, Madeira and Porto Santo, plus two uninhabited natural group of islands, the Desertas and Savage Islands (). The archipelago is located closer to Africa than Europe, is highly commercial and urbanized; its regional capital (Funchal) is developmentally comparable to urban centers in the Canary or Balearic Islands.\n\nThe division of the Portuguese territory is established in title eight (Título VIII) of the Portuguese constitution: granting local authority to territorial collectivities with representative organs to affect the interests of the local populations. These collectivities are defined as autonomous regions, administrative regions, municipalities and civil parishes, but reserves the right of urban areas and islands to establish other forms of local authority. In defining the rights and privileges of these entities, the constitution also defines sources of income, that includes local heritage, budgets and equalization transfers from the State, in addition to defining the basic role of local government at each level.\n\nSince 1976, Portugal conceded political autonomy to its North Atlantic archipelagos (Madeira and Azores) due to their distance, isolation, geographical context and socio-economic circumstances. The regional autonomies have their own organic laws, regional governments and administration, overseen by a Regional Government (), that constitutes a Regional Cabinet, comprising a President () and several Regional Secretaries ().\n\nA plan to divide mainland Portugal in eight regions was defeated in a referendum in 1998. The metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto were created in 1991. A law passed in 2003 supported the creation of more metropolitan areas, urban communities and other associations of municipalities, but a law passed in 2008 abolished these, converting them into intermunicipal communities. Finally in law 75/2013 of September 2013 the current two types of administrative regions were defined:\n\nThe Metropolitan Areas are territorial units formed by grouping municipalities, in order to economize on municipal investments and services. As of 2014, there are two metropolitan areas that correspond to Level III NUTS regions:\n\nThe intermunicipal communities replaced the urban communities, the intermunicipal communities for general purposes and some metropolitan areas that were created in 2003, and abolished in 2008. The territories of the intermunicipal communities are (roughly) based on the NUTS III statistical regions. As of 2014, there are 21 intermunicipal communities:\n\nApart from the national territory, that includes mainland Portugal and the two archipelagos, the municipalities (\"municípios\", colloquially known as \"concelhos\") have been the most constant territorial subdivision in the past 900 years. While a term for \"municipality\" () appeared in the 13th century, to \"express a community constituted in a territory of varying extensions, whose residents – the neighbours of the municipality – are granted major or minor administrative autonomy\", the territorial division predates its use. Preceding the nation's independence, the oldest of the larger municipalities still in existence Coimbra and Santarém were founded in 1085 e 1095, respectively. São João da Pesqueira (in the district of Viseu) is the oldest Portuguese municipality, founded in 1055.\n\nSince the creation of a democratic local administration, in 1976, the Portuguese municipalities have been ruled by a system composed by an executive body (the municipal chamber) and a deliberative body (the municipal assembly). The municipal chamber () is the executive body, and is composed of a \"president\" of the municipality and a number of councillors whose number depends on the municipality's population. The municipal assembly () is composed of the presidents of all the civil parishes plus a number of directly elected representatives that has to be at least equal to the number of civil parish presidents plus one, and which otherwise depends on the municipal population.\n\nThere are 308 municipalities in Portugal. They are usually named for their biggest city, or at least, their historically most important city or town. However, the municipality is usually much larger than the city or town after which it is named. The largest in area is Odemira with 1720.60 km², the smallest is São João da Madeira with an area of 7.94 km².\n\nNearly all municipalities are subdivided into civil parishes. Barcelos is the municipality with the largest number of civil parishes (61). There are six municipalities that have only one civil parish: São João da Madeira, Alpiarça, Barrancos, Castanheira de Pera, Porto Santo (Madeira) and São Brás de Alportel. The municipality of Corvo (comprising the Corvo Island in the Azores) is the only Portuguese municipality without a civil parish.\n\nThe parish, in contrast with the municipalities, had their base in the ecclesiastical divisions that \"had its origin in the fact that neighbours professed the same religion and professed their faith and divinity in the same temple\". Between 1216 and 1223, Afonso II of Portugal began a process of legitimizing the Portuguese territory by conferring charters to nobles, clergy and municipal chambers (which would not be completed until after 1249 (under Afonso III of Portugal), making the parish the smallest division. From the 19th century \"freguesia\" began to refer to the civil/administrative entity, while the \"paróquia\" (Latin and 19th-century Portuguese: \"parochia\") became affiliated with the religious entity.\n\nSince the creation of a democratic local administration, in 1976, the Portuguese parishes have been ruled by a system composed by an executive body (the \"junta de freguesia\", \"parish board\") and a deliberative body (the \"assembleia de freguesia\", \"parish assembly\"). The members of the \"assembleia de freguesia\" are publicly elected every four years. The presidents of the parish boards are also members of the municipal assembly.\n\nBefore the 2013 local government reforms, the 308 municipalities were subdivided into 4,259 civil parishes. As part of the national government's attempt to control spending, in light of the sovereign debt crisis, in 2012 the government of Pedro Passos Coelho introduced a plan to reform the administrative divisions, in order to create efficiencies and save money. The plan envisioned the reform of the management, territorial geography and political form of how Portugal functioned at the local level, including specifically at the \"freguesia\" and \"município\" levels. In addition to the reduction of the number of representatives in the local boards, the plan also established criteria for the reduction, amalgamation or extinction of various civil parishes. The reform was implemented according to law 11-A/2013 of January 2013, which defined the reorganization of the civil parishes,\n\nSince the 2013 reform, there are 3,091 parishes in Portugal. The largest in area is Alcácer do Sal (Santa Maria do Castelo e Santiago) e Santa Susana with 888.35 km², the smallest is Borba (São Bartolomeu) with an area of 0.20 km².\n\nPortugal has a complex administrative structure, a consequence of a millennium of various territorial divisions. Unlike other European countries like Spain or France, the Portuguese territory was settled early, and maintained with stability after the 13th century.\n\nThe first division of the Portuguese territory was based exclusively on the Roman Iberian provinces of Hispania Tarraconensis, Lusitania and Hispania Baetica, established by Emperor Augustus between 27-13 B.C. The actual territory of Portugal north of the Douro, the Province of Tarraconensis, occupied half of the peninsula, while the Province Lusitania, included the area south of the Douro. These Roman provinces were themselves subdivided into \"conventus iuridicus\": \"Conventus Bracarum\", its seat in \"Bracara Augusta\" (today the city of Braga); \"Conventus Scallabitanus\", its seat in \"Scallabis\" (today the city of Santarém); and \"Conventus Pacensis\", its seat in \"Pax Julia\" (today Beja). By the end of the third century, Emperor Diocleatian administratively reordered Tarraconesis, dividing it into three separate territories (Tarraconensis, Carthaginensis and Callaecia), the latter comprising the northern Portugal, Galizia and Austurias. These divisions remained constant even after the Visigoths controlled the Iberian peninsula.\n\nDuring the period of Al-Andalus and Muslim caliphates, the Iberian peninsula was divided administratively into provinces (\"kuwar\") and municipalities (\"kurar\"), along the lines of the Roman-Visigothic delineations. Meanwhile, the \"taifa\" of Badajoz dominated the spaces of Beiras, Estremadura and a great part of the Alentejo.\n\nWith the expansion of the Portuguese national territory, following the conquest of new lands, the monarchy imposed a structure that permitted permanent dominion and organization of territorial space. There was also a tendency to demarcate lands associated with settlements or seigneurial properties; there was a constant history of forals (the royal charters) being allocated for unorganized territories, as a means to primarily establish fielty rights and encourage medieval settlement. Historically, the institution of the foral system was a way to divide the territory and to establish local administrative control (and not regional or hierarchical continuity). Similarly the parish, instituted by the religious orders that dominated the country, controlled local ecclesiastical power at the local level.\n\nDuring the reign of King Dinis (1279–1325), the monarch instituted a series of inquiries throughout the kingdom which resulted, a few years later, in the configuration of the territory into provinces and municipalities. This was the first official recognition of the diversity of the country, and in the King's \"Testamento do Reino de Portugal\" he recognized the five \"regions\" of the nation: \"Antre Douro e Minho\"; \"Antre Douro e Mondego\"; \"Beira\", \"Estremadura\" and \"Antre Tejo e Odiana\".\n\nDinis's successor, Afonso IV (1325–1357), instituted a system of six official comarcas, that reflected a concrete definition of these regions: \"Antre Douro e Minho\", \"Antre Douro e Mondego\", \"Beira\", \"Estremadura\", \"Antre Tejo e Odiana\" and \"Algarve\". Between the reign of Afonso IV and the 20th century there were numerous alterations to the limits of the nation, a consequence of development and population growth. Further modifications to the limits of these provinces occurred in the \"Plano de Ordenamento da Mata Nacional da Machada\" (1864), the first scientific delimiting of forest resources, and the \"Projecto Geral da Arborização dos Areais Móveis de Portugal\" (1897), which modified land usage along the coast.\n\nBut, until 1832, the provinces did not serve an administrative function, although they did mark the differences in habits, linguistic peculiarities and socio-cultural characteristics. The province remained a military designation, chiefed by the \"General das Armas\" (Military Governor), expressly forbidden from influencing municipal affairs. During the Liberal regime, some of the liberal politicians conceived an administrative system where provinces were the top level tier of government, maintaining their former names, but with different frontiers. The debate over the importance of provinces only arose from fears that there would be an excessive concentration of power in the hands of governmental officers (). The adoption of the 17 districts (1835) instead of eight provinces was an attempt to dissolve such power.\n\nIn 1936, the provinces were reestablished as administrative divisions in Portugal. However, instead the six traditional provinces, 11 new ones were established: \"Minho\", \"Douro Litoral\", \"Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro\", \"Beira Alta\", \"Beira Baixa\", \"Beira Litoral\", \"Estremadura\", \"Ribatejo\", \"Alto Alentejo\", \"Baixo Alentejo\" and \"Algarve\". These were based in the natural regions identified by the geographer Amorim Girão in several studies he published between 1922 and 1930. The Estado Novo regime used the provinces to characterize traditional and rural Portugal. Each province intended to be a regional community, to which were given decentralized powers. Yet, the Districts continued to define administrative and political control, much like the organization of public security for the State, limiting the powers of local government. This organizational structure for the territory resulted in a loss of the sense of regional identity, which was only kept alive by oral traditions, based on regional references of origin.\n\nThere was a substantial difference between the European provinces and regions and the overseas colonies (the so-called \"overseas provinces\").\n\nFollowing the Carnation Revolution, the regions and provinces were abolished and the districts became the second level administrative regions.\n\nThe term \"overseas province\" started to be used to designate each of the Portuguese overseas territories, instead of the previous \"overseas dominion\", during the administrative reforms of the beginning of the 19th century, following the idea that these territories were as part of Portugal as the Portuguese European provinces. In the beginning of the 20th century, most of these territories started to be referred as \"colonies\", although the term \"overseas provinces\" continued also to be used. Only after 1951, the term \"colony\" was completely dropped and the term \"overseas province\" was exalted by the government of António de Oliveira Salazar to shift the attention of anti-colonial protests in the United Nations. But the history of extra-local territories (colonies or provinces) within Portuguese administration dates back to the first settlements along the African coast, South-east Asia and Brazil, and were instituted as part of the 1832 reforms. The initiatives envisioned a comprehensive series of provinces that would have included European Portugal, archipelagos and extra-local dependencies in Southeast Asia, Africa and India. These colonies included:\nInitially the population of these overseas territories were made to exploit resources (minerals, spices, wood or slaves), but later there was a sense of evangelisation or \"lusotropolicalism\", that facilitated the colonization of these lands. The first significant colony was Brazil whose history included a period as kingdom within the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarves (1815–1822), before a political schism would result in its independence in 1822.\n\nThe Eurostat-based NUTS system subdivides the nation into three levels: NUTS I, NUTS II and NUTS III. In some European partners, as is the case with Portugal, a complimentary hierarchy, respectively LAU I and LAU II (posteriorly referred to as NUTS IV and NUTS V) is employed. The LAU, or \"Local Administrative Units\", in the Portuguese context pertains to the 308 municipalities (LAU I) and 4257 civil parishes (LAU II) respectively. In the broadest sense, the NUTS hierarchy, while they may follow some of the borders (municipal or parish) diverge in their delineation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34735854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34735854", "title": "Animal Justice Party", "text": "Animal Justice Party\n\nAnimal Justice Party (AJP) is a political party in Australia representing an animal rights perspective in the Australian political arena. On 3 May 2011, the Animal Justice Party was approved by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) and AJP was federally registered as a political party under the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918, making the party eligible for federal funding. AJP is the first political party in Australia formed to advance animal rights issues.\n\nThe preamble of the AJP charter says the party \"has been formed as a response to growing public concern about the neglect of animals and animal protection issues by political parties\" and states its mission is \"to promote and protect the interests and capabilities of animals by providing a dedicated voice for them in Australia's political system\". The party aims to give animals constitutional protection based on their , as opposed to their instrumental value. The sole purpose of the AJP is to provide a focal point for people who feel there is a lack of action taken by political figures that concerns the wellbeing of animals.\n\nThe AJP is highly against the export of any live animals for profit, especially slaughter. They want an international ban of all live animal hauling throughout the world. \"We demand an end to the export of live animals from Australia at the earliest possible time, taking into consideration any domestic welfare issues exceeding those faced overseas, that the animals previously earmarked for live export would suffer in the event of a ban\" says Steve Garlick, previous president of AJP. The group realises that their government will not put a ban on the live animal export because it brings in so much money for the country even though countless instances of cruelty have been blatantly proven. The exported animals usually go to countries that have no animal welfare laws or protection codes that ensure their protection and well being.\n\nIn 2011, in the light of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's television footage showing abuse and the slaughter of cattle from the Northern Territory in conditions that would not have been permitted in Australia, as well as the consequential nationwide protests by supporters of animal welfare, AJP, along with Animals Australia, the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union (AMIEU), The Greens and a range of other NGOs sought a ban on live animal exports. Steve Garlick, president of the Animal Justice Party, said that rural Australia has been adversely affected by the export of live animals and argued that the export ban would result in economic and social benefit in the country.\n\nAt the 2013 federal election, the party was criticised for preferencing the Liberal Party ahead of the Greens in the ACT Senate. They did this because the Greens had supported the culling of kangaroos in the ACT. This preferencing decision had no impact on the result. The party was a member of Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance but failed to win a seat. The AJP recorded a 0.70 percent national Senate vote.\n\nMark Pearson, the lead candidate of the Animal Justice Party won the final seat in the New South Wales Legislative Council at the 2015 state election, giving the party its first parliamentary representation. At the 2016 federal election, Lynda Stoner, the Chief Executive of Animal Liberation and a former television actress, was endorsed by the party as its candidate for the Senate representing New South Wales. She was one of a total of 55 Animal Justice Party candidates across both houses in the 2016 federal election. The AJP recorded a 1.15 percent national Senate vote, an increase of 0.46 percent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47657283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47657283", "title": "Bangkok Rules", "text": "Bangkok Rules\n\nThe Bangkok Rules, also known as \"The United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders\", is a set of rules focused on the needs of women offenders and prisoners adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 2010. The Bangkok Rules is the first set of rules geared towards the treatment of women prisoners. It supplements the existing international standards on the treatment of prisoners, particularly the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, which applies to all prisoners regardless of gender.\n\n“In 2009, the Thai government submitted a resolution to the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, a subsidiary body of the UN Economic and Social Council, that recognized the vulnerability of women incarcerated in a system built principally for men. The resolution set in motion a series of meetings that culminated in the UN General Assembly’s December 2010 adoption of the body’s first set of rules focused on women prisoners: Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders, or the Bangkok Rules.”\n\nOn March 16, 2011, the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution to adopt the Bangkok Rules, which encourage member states \"to adopt legislation to establish alternatives to imprisonment and to give priority to the financing of such systems, as well as to the development of the mechanisms needed for their implementation.\"\n\nHistorically, prisons and prison regimes have almost invariably been designed for the majority male prison population – from the architecture of prisons, to security procedures, to healthcare, family contact, work and training. The 70 Rules give guidance to policy makers, legislators, sentencing authorities and prison staff to reduce the imprisonment of women, and to meet the specific needs of women in case of imprisonment. The Rules cover a variety of issues, including admission procedures, healthcare, humane treatment, search procedures, children who accompany their mothers into prison.\n\nEstimated to account for between 2 and 10 percent of national prison populations, women are the fastest growing prisoner demographic. In the US, for example, the number of incarcerated women has grown at roughly twice the rate for men, multiplying by almost a factor of seven in the last three decades. Chinese data is not up to date, but, between 1997 and 2002, the number of women in Chinese prisons increased at an average annual rate of 13 percent.\n\nWomen offenders are disproportionately likely to have been victims of domestic or sexual abuse. Throughout the criminal justice process, they are at risk of further abuse, violence and humiliation – from police, prison officers and fellow prisoners. For many women, custody means ill-treatment, threats of rape, touching, ‘virginity testing’, being stripped naked, invasive body searches, insults and humiliations of a sexual nature or even rape. There are also cases of women prisoners being forced into a position of providing sex for favours or preferential treatment. Alternatives to imprisonment – such as community service – have been shown to be much more effective in reducing re-offending and in promoting lasting rehabilitation. However, in many countries alternatives to prison fail to take into account the specific requirements of women offenders. Their caretaking responsibilities and their previous history of domestic violence are often overlooked, as are gender differences in drug dependency and therefore drug treatment.\n"}
{"id": "20432373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20432373", "title": "Belarusian orthography reform of 1933", "text": "Belarusian orthography reform of 1933\n\nThe orthography of the Belarusian language was reformed in 1933 under Soviet rule.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5968495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5968495", "title": "Bioenergy village", "text": "Bioenergy village\n\nA bio-energy village is a regionally oriented concept for the use of renewable energy sources in rural areas. The system uses biomass from local agriculture and forestry in a biogas powerplant to meet the complete energy requirements of a village, such as electricity and district heating.\n\nThese villages tend to be self-powered and independent from external grids, despite being connected to overland grids for feeding surplus energy. The term \"bio-energy village\" refers to a dependency on fresh biological material as a source of energy only whereas an \"ecovillage\" includes a variety of networks.\n\nExamples of such villages are Jühnde near Göttingen, Mauenheim near Tuttlingen and Bollewick near Berlin in Germany.\n\nLiquid manure, grass, silage and other raw materials from agriculture are fermented in a biological gas facility. The biogas produced fuels a combined heat and power plant (CHP). The heat is distributed via a district heating system while power is fed into a local electricity grid. In winter, additional heat requirements can be supplied by a supplementary heating plant, in which wood chips or straw are burned.\n\nThe first bio-energy village in Germany is Jühnde in the district of Göttingen. A project initiated by the Interdisciplinary Centre For Sustainable Development (IZNE) at the University of Göttingen, and completed in January 2006, the project supplies the village with the heat that it requires and produces twice as much electricity as is used. It has been estimated that the participating households save €750 per year in energy costs.\n\nIn Mauenheim, Baden-Württemberg, a bio-energy village has been developed in Immendingen in the district of Tuttlingen, with approximately 400 inhabitants and 148 buildings. The biogas facility and wood chip heating system are supplemented by a solar energy system. The project started operation in 2006. It has been calculated that about 1900 tonnes of CO per year will be saved.\n\nThe Breuberger village of Rai Breitenbach in the Odenwald (approximately 890 inhabitants) is in the process of becoming a bio-energy village. At present the project is still in the planning stage. A feasibility study has been completed and a co-operative created to carry out the project, which is expected to be completed in 2008.\n\nThe village Freiamt in the Black Forest with 4300 inhabitants is using all forms of renewable energy. A biogas plant, Solar power, wind and water energy produce about 14 million kwh energy annually, about 3 million more than needed. Around 150 solar collectors are used for water heating.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40249040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40249040", "title": "Block FACT", "text": "Block FACT\n\nBlock FACT () is part of a Russian far-right group, operating in St. Petersburg and established in the autumn of 2010.\n\nThe public statements from Block FACT often represent hard anti-communism. The organization's criteria for labeling a group as communist are quite broad. For example, the regimes of Muammar Gaddafi, Bashar Assad, and even the Kingdom of Bahrain were labeled as \"communist\" by Block FACT.\n\nBlock FACT claimed responsibility for the beating of St. Petersburg Marxist-Leninist historian , setting fire to a Communist Party car (September 2011), and assaulting magistrate Alexei Kuznetsov (April 2013). Block FACT claimed responsibility for beating Communist Party secretary Alexey Rusakov (August 2012), burning a Communist Party car (February 2012), desecrating and destroying a series of Soviet memorials (plaques Lenin, Uritsky, Romanov, Trefolev, Voytik), and attacking several activists of Communist organizations.\n\nSome commentators characterized the actions of Block FACT as a relaxed variant of European neo-fascist terrorism of the 1970s. It is assumed that the activists of Block FACT attacked a former Duma deputy, Viktor Tyulkin. The leader of the St. Petersburg communist organizations, Tyulkin, was beaten on 4 October 2013, after a communist demonstration commemorating the 20th anniversary of the events of October 1993. One of the attackers congratulated Tyulkin with \"happy holidays\".\n"}
{"id": "2384825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384825", "title": "Bryant G. Wood", "text": "Bryant G. Wood\n\nBryant G. Wood is a biblical archaeologist and young earth creationist. He is Research Director of Associates for Biblical Research and editor of their quarterly archaeology magazine \"Bible and Spade\", which is explicitly committed to the use of archaeology to demonstrate the historical veracity of the Old and New Testaments. Wood is known for his 1990 proposed redating of the destruction of Jericho to accord with the biblical chronology of c. 1400 BC. His proposal contradicts the dating of c. 1550 BC, as proposed by Kathleen Kenyon and confirmed by carbon-dating.\n\nWood attended Syracuse University, graduating with a B.S. in mechanical engineering, later earning a M.S. in mechanical engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York. He later pursued biblical and archaeological studies and received an M.A. in Biblical History from the University of Michigan in 1974 and a Ph.D. in Syro-Palestinian archaeology from the University of Toronto in 1985. Wood is a specialist in Canaanite pottery of the Late Bronze Age. He is author of \"The Sociology of Pottery in Ancient Palestine: The Ceramic Industry and the Diffusion of Ceramic Style in the Bronze and Iron Ages\" (1990), as well as numerous articles on archaeological subjects. In addition, Wood serves as editor of the quarterly publication \"Bible and Spade\".\n\nWood received international attention for his proposed redating of ancient Jericho, arguing for the historicity of the biblical account of the capture of the city by the Israelites. He has also written on the entry of the Philistines into Canaan and on the historicity of the Biblical story of Sodom and Gomorrah.\n\nWood is a young earth creationist who is described by Creation Ministries International as a creationist archaeologist.\n\nAccording to the story in the biblical book of Joshua, Jericho was the first Canaanite city to fall to the Israelites as they began their conquest of the Promised Land - an event which the Bible's internal chronology places at around 1406 BC, based on the early 15th century BC exodus-conquest model. This is based on . During a series of excavations from 1930 to 1936 John Garstang found a destruction layer at Jericho corresponding to the termination of City IV which he identified with the biblical story of Joshua and dated to c. 1400 BC. It was therefore a shock when Kathleen Kenyon in the 1950s, using more scientific methods than had been available to Garstang, redated Jericho City IV to 1550 BC and found no signs of any habitation at all for the period around 1400 BC. Wood's 1990 reversion of City IV to Garstang's original 1400 BC therefore attracted considerable attention. In 1999, based on a reanalysis of pottery shards (a method which can provide highly accurate dates in the context of the ancient Near East), Wood argued that Jericho could have been captured in the Late Bronze Age by Joshua. Wood and Piotr Bienkowski debated this in the March/April 1990 issue of Biblical Archaeological Review, with Bienkowski writing:\n\nWood has attempted to redate the destruction of Jericho City IV from the end of the Middle Bronze Age (c. 1550 B.C.) to the end of the Late Bronze I (c. 1400 BC). He has put forward four lines of argument to support his conclusion. Not a single one of these arguments can stand up to scrutiny. On the contrary, there is strong evidence to confirm Kathleen Kenyon's dating of City IV to the Middle Bronze Age. Wood's attempt to equate the destruction of City IV with the Israelite conquest of Jericho must therefore be rejected.\n\nWood responded that he had produced evidence to back his argument, and that any counter-claims should also be backed by fresh evidence. In 1995 fresh evidence became available in the form of charred cereal grains from the City IV destruction layer. Radiocarbon dating of these grains showed that Jericho City IV was destroyed \"during the late 17th or the 16th century BC\", in line with Kenyon's findings, and that \"the fortified Bronze Age city at Tell es-Sultan [Jericho] was not destroyed by ca.1400 BC, as Wood (1990) suggested\". Wood responded to the newer evidence in an article for the Associates for Biblical Research, concluding that he still held to the date ca. 1400 B.C. based on pottery finds. Wood also argues that the discrepancy is part of the ongoing dispute between Egyptologists and radiocarbon experts that centers around the date of the Thera eruption. Kenyon's date is consensually accepted by mainstream archaeologists. William G. Dever stated: \"(Of course, for some, that only made the Biblical story more miraculous than ever—Joshua destroyed a city that wasn't even there!)\" According to Ann E. Killebrew, \"Most scholars today accept that the majority of the conquest narratives in the book of Joshua are devoid of historical reality\".\n\nWood directs excavations at Khirbet el-Maqatir, a city which he contends may be the biblical city of Ai. The traditional location of Ai, et-Tell, was excavated most recently by Joseph Callaway and was found to have been abandoned during the entirety of the Middle Bronze and Late Bronze Ages. Khirbet el-Maqatir has produced pottery of the Early Bronze, Middle Bronze, Late Bronze I, Iron Age I, late Hellenistic/early Roman, and Byzantine periods. Based on initial finds, including a small Late Bronze I fortress in areas A, D, E, and G, Wood's \"preliminary conclusion is that the LB I fortress meets the Biblical requirements to be tentatively identified as the fortress 'Ai, referred to in Josh. 7-8.\" Nearby Khirbet Nisya has also been suggested, by excavator David Livingstone, as an alternative location for Ai.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "884906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884906", "title": "Build–operate–transfer", "text": "Build–operate–transfer\n\nBuild–operate–transfer (BOT) or build–own–operate–transfer (BOOT) is a form of project financing, wherein a private entity receives a concession from the private or public sector to finance, design, construct, own, and operate a facility stated in the concession contract. This enables the project proponent to recover its investment, operating and maintenance expenses in the project.\n\nDue to the long-term nature of the arrangement, the fees are usually raised during the concession period. The rate of increase is often tied to a combination of internal and external variables, allowing the proponent to reach a satisfactory internal rate of return for its investment.\n\nExamples of countries using BOT are Pakistan, Thailand, Turkey, Taiwan, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Israel, India, Iran, Croatia, Japan, China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Philippines, Egypt, Myanmar and a few US states (California, Florida, Indiana, Texas, and Virginia). However, in some countries, such as Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Nepal, the term used is build–own–operate–transfer (BOOT).\nThe first BOT was for the China Hotel, built in 1979 by the Hong Kong listed conglomerate Hopewell Holdings Ltd (controlled by Sir Gordon Wu).\n\nForms of project finance are listed in the sections below.\n\nBOT finds extensive application in infrastructure projects and in public–private partnership. In the BOT framework a third party, for example the public administration, delegates to a private sector entity to design and build infrastructure and to operate and maintain these facilities for a certain period. During this period the private party has the responsibility to raise the finance for the project and is entitled to retain all revenues generated by the project and is the owner of the regarded facilities. The facility will be then transferred to the public administration at the end of the concession agreement, without any remuneration of the private entity involved. \nSome or even all of the following different parties could be involved in any BOT project:\n\nA BOT Project (build operate transfer project) is typically used to develop a discrete asset rather than a whole network and is generally entirely new or greenfield in nature (although refurbishment may be involved). In a BOT Project the project company or operator generally obtains its revenues through a fee charged to the utility/ government rather than tariffs charged to consumers. A number of projects are called concessions, such as toll road projects, which are new build and have a number of similarities to BOTs.\nIn general, a project is financially viable for the private entity if the revenues generated by the project cover its cost and provide sufficient return on investment. On the other hand, the viability of the project for the host government depends on its efficiency in comparison with the economics of financing the project with public funds. Even if the host government could borrow money on better conditions than a private company could, other factors could offset this particular advantage. For example, the expertise and efficiency that the private entity is expected to bring as well as the risk transfer. Therefore, the private entity bears a substantial part of the risk. These are some types of the most common risks involved: \n\nA BOOT structure differs from BOT in that the private entity owns the works. During the concession period the private company owns and operates the facility with the prime goal to recover the costs of investment and maintenance while trying to achieve higher margin on project. The specific characteristics of BOOT make it suitable for infrastructure projects like highways, roads mass transit, railway transport and power generation and as such they have political importance for the social welfare but are not attractive for other types of private investments. BOOT & BOT are methods which find very extensive application in countries which desire ownership transfer and operations including. Some advantages of BOOT projects are: \n\nIn a BOO project ownership of the project remains usually with the project company for example a mobile phone network. Therefore, the private company gets the benefits of any residual value of the project. This framework is used when the physical life of the project coincides with the concession period. A BOO scheme involves large amounts of finance and long payback period. Some examples of BOO projects come from the water treatment plants. This facilities run by private companies process raw water, provided by the public sector entity, into filtered water, which is after returned to the public sector utility to deliver to the customers.\n\nUnder BLT a private entity builds a complete project and leases it to the government. On this way the control over the project is transferred from the project owner to a lessee. In other words, the ownership remains by the shareholders but operation purposes are leased. After the expiry of the leasing the ownership of the asset and the operational responsibility are transferred to the government at a previously agreed price. For foreign investors taking into account the country risk BLT provides good conditions because the project company maintains the property rights while avoiding operational risk.\n\nDesign–build–finance–operate is a project delivery method very similar to BOOT except that there is no actual ownership transfer. Moreover, the contractor assumes the risk of financing till the end of the contract period. The owner then assumes the responsibility for maintenance and operation. Some disadvantages of DBFO are the difficulty with long term relationships and the threat of possible future political changes which may not agree with prior commitments.This model is extensively used in specific infrastructure projects such as toll roads. The private construction company is responsible for the design and construction of a piece of infrastructure for the government, which is the true owner. Moreover, the private entity has the responsibility to raise finance during the construction and the exploitation period. The cash flows serve to repay the investment and reward its shareholders. They end up in form of periodical payment to the government for the use of the infrastructure. The government has the advantage that it remains the owner of the facility and at the same time avoids direct payment from the users. Additionally, the government succeeds to avoid getting into debt and to spread out the cost for the road over the years of exploitation.<ref name=\"http://www-esd.worldbank.org/pbc_resource_guide/Docs-latest%20edition/cases-and-pdfs/pakkalae5.pdf\"></ref>\n\nThis funding option is common when the client has no knowledge of what the project entails. Hence he contracts the project to a company to design, build, operate and then transfer it. Examples of such projects are refinery constructions. \nSome examples for the DCMF model are the prisons or the public hospitals. A private entity is built to design, construct, manage, and finance a facility, based on the specifications of the government. Project cash flows result from the government's payment for the rent of the facility. In the case of the hospitals, the government has the ownership over the facility and has the price and quality control. The same financial model could be applied on other projects such as prisons. Therefore, this model could be interpreted as a mean to avoid new indebtedness of public finance.\n\n"}
{"id": "18325566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18325566", "title": "Combat readiness", "text": "Combat readiness\n\nCombat readiness is a condition of the armed forces and their constituent units and formations, warships, aircraft, weapon systems or other military technology and equipment to perform during combat military operations, or functions consistent with the purpose for which they are organized or designed, or the managing of resources and personnel training in preparation for combat.\n\nMost armed forces maintain varying levels of readiness by the troops to engage in combat due to economic considerations which vary from minutes to months. In modern armed forces troops designated special forces are usually those kept at the highest state of readiness for combat, and are often alerted only a few hours before being committed to combat. Where time is of the essence in military action being initiated, the troops, such as pilots of interceptor aircraft, may be kept in constant state of combat readiness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3962924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3962924", "title": "Consent theory", "text": "Consent theory\n\nConsent theory is a term for the idea in social philosophy that individuals primarily make decisions as free agents entering into consensual relationships with other free agents, and that this becomes the basis for political governance. An early elaborator of this idea was John Locke, from whom the expression \"all men are created equal\" can be traced. Consent theory goes back at least to the 16th century.\n\nOne criticism is after the original administering of consent by the people, subsequent generations often only give tacit consent to the government. Without the power to refuse consent, true consent cannot be given.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38838158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38838158", "title": "Coup of Kaiserswerth", "text": "Coup of Kaiserswerth\n\nThe Coup of Kaiserswerth () in 1062 was a hitherto unprecedented action of several secular and ecclesiastical Princes of the Holy Roman Empire under the leadership of Archbishop Anno II of Cologne against Empress Agnes, ruling on behalf of her under-age son, King Henry IV, and against her chosen sub-regent, Bishop Henry II of Augsburg. By kidnapping the young king and enforcing the handover of the Imperial Regalia, the group gained control of the reins of power in the Empire.\n\nIn early April 1062, eleven-year-old Henry IV and his mother were staying in the \"Königspfalz\" of Kaiserswerth (today a quarter in Düsseldorf), erected by Agnes' late husband Emperor Henry III, where both met with Archbishop Anno II of Cologne. After banqueting together, Anno invited the boy to visit a magnificent ship that he had moored in the River Rhine nearby. What Henry experienced when he boarded the ship, is related by the contemporary chronicler Lambert of Hersfeld as follows:\n\nAnno then took the king up the river to his Cologne residence and blackmailed Empress Agnes to hand over the Imperial Regalia. As a consequence the power of the state fell into the hands of the rebels, who, in addition to Anno and Count Egbert of Brunswick, mentioned by Lambert, also included Otto of Northeim as well as the Archbishops Adalbert of Bremen and Siegfried of Mainz.\n\nThe motives for the attack are still not entirely clear, especially as the sources for this event are extremely contradictory. The opinion of the contemporary commentators is divided. Lambert's report still seems to be relatively objective when he writes that the kidnappers and Anno, in particular, sought to \"rescue the son from the influence of his mother and to seize the administration of the Empire for themselves.\" Lambert did not speculate on the motives of the conspirators. He points out the possibility that Anno had \"acted out of political ambition\", but admits that he may have also acted for the good of the Empire.\n\nThe assessment of the \"Vita Heinrici IV imperatoris\", however, appears subjective and may be better understood if one assumes that the anonymous author was very close to the royal family. Here, it suggests, \"inter alia\", that the motive for the kidnapping was fear of Agnes' \"maturity, wisdom and strict morals\". The official reason, that it was not proper for the kingdom to be ruled by a woman, is rejected by the author. Here, he even claims that they had kidnapped the young king only to have unrestricted freedom to expand their own power.\n\nBruno the Saxon even more or less states that Henry himself was to blame for his own kidnapping: young Henry \"full of royal arrogance hardly [heeded] his mother's admonitions\". Anno had him educated \"with great care\" after his kidnapping. Bruno not only entirely denies that Empress Agnes was so assertive, i.e. he considered her to be too weak (whether in terms of ensuring the proper education of the young king or in terms of her regency, is not clear), but he even praised Anno for his actions. His criticism of Henry IV himself is probably explained by the fact that Bruno did not subsequently agree with Henry's politics and saw negative traits in the king from an early age. That he was, politically, not on Agnes' side, is obvious.\n\nAlthough the sources apparently fail to report anything reliably about the motives of the kidnappers, current research now believes that both the pursuit of power (especially for Anno of Cologne), as well as concern for the neglect and the education of Henry IV were crucial to the case. The rebellion was also directed against Empress Agnes' subregent, Bishop Henry of Augsburg, who was accused of having an \"unskillful and pretentious way of handling the business of government\". In addition, according to the chronicler Lambert of Hersfeld, \"the Empress and the bishop could not escape the suspicion of an affair, because there was a general rumour that such a confidential relationship could not develop without an illicit relationship.\"\n\nAlthough Anno of Cologne had to provide a justification for his actions in summer 1062 at a \"Hoftag\" assembly, he took over the education of the young king and initially retained the reins of government in his hands. Even when the young king finally ascended the throne, Anno controlled, from that moment on, the fate of the Empire. He did not hesitate to strengthen the power of his Cologne electorate; politically, he felt himself primarily bound to church reform party. In probably his most significant political act, he headed a 1064 synod in Mantua where he reached a resolution of the papal schism between Alexander II and Honorius II upon the election of 1061. According to an expertise delivered by Anno's nephew Bishop Burchard II of Halbertsadt the synod decided in favour of Alexander.\n\nHowever, Anno found he had no personal access to Henry, unlike his co-conspirator Adalbert of Bremen, and the two archbishops soon became bitter enemies. The princes had enforced Adalbert's installation as Henry's tutor and he had quickly built up a close relationship with the king, whereby Anno's position became increasingly undermined. Nevertheless, Adalbert of Bremen also ultimately had personal interests primarily in mind and strictly pursued a policy that resulted in \"dividends\" for his Bremen archdiocese.\n\nAfter the coup, Bishop Henry of Augsburg was stripped of all governmental powers, as was Empress Agnes. Still, her presence in the Empire continued to be required and until King Henry IV reached his majority, she remained head of the Salian dynasty. Only through her remaining in the kingdom could she claim the throne for her son. Against this background, Lambert's report that Agnes, on the advice of her counsellors, abandoned her intention to enter a nunnery, is given a firm, legal footing and thus gains in authenticity. It was not until King Henry IV came of age and an accolade ceremony was held on 29 March 1065 in Mainz, that Agnes could achieve her long-held desire for life in the monastery. But first, she was able to dissuade her son from killing the hated Anno, after he had presented him with his sword.\n\nAt the beknighting of the king, imperial power returned to the hands of the rightful ruler. The nearly three-year-long period of transitional reign came to an end, though Adalbert of Bremen remained the principal adviser to Henry until January 1066 at a \"Hoftag\" in Trebur, when, at the bidding of the princes, he was dismissed as counsellor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7872733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7872733", "title": "Election Funding Authority of New South Wales", "text": "Election Funding Authority of New South Wales\n\nThe Election Funding Authority of New South Wales was the agency of the Government of New South Wales charged with administering the Elections Funding Act 1981. The Authority formerly distributed public funding for the purposes of campaigning by candidates in state elections and handles claims for payments from the state's Political Education Fund. On 1 December 2014 it was abolished and its functions made the responsibility of the NSW Electoral Commission.\n\nCandidates for public office in New South Wales previously had obligations under the Election Funding, Expenditure and Disclosures Act 1981 to declare political donations, as well as expenditure on campaigning to the Authority. Disclosures were required to be made by 20 October each year.\n\nThe Authority was the responsibility of the Department of Premier and Cabinet.\n\n"}
{"id": "532055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532055", "title": "Endangered Species Act of 1973", "text": "Endangered Species Act of 1973\n\nThe Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA; 16 U.S.C. § 1531 et seq.) is one of the few dozens of US environmental laws passed in the 1970s, and serves as the enacting legislation to carry out the provisions outlined in The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Designed to protect critically imperiled species from extinction as a \"consequence of economic growth and development untempered by adequate concern and conservation\", the ESA was signed into law by President Richard Nixon on December 28, 1973. The U.S. Supreme Court found that \"the plain intent of Congress in enacting\" the ESA \"was to halt and reverse the trend toward species extinction, whatever the cost.\" The Act is administered by two federal agencies, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the Commerce Department's National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS).\n\nListing status and its abbreviations used in Federal Register and by federal agencies like the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service:\n\n\nThe near-extinction of the bison and the disappearance of the passenger pigeon helped drive the call for wildlife conservation starting in the 1900s. Ornithologist George Bird Grinnell wrote articles on the subject in the magazine \"Forest and Stream\", while Joel Asaph Allen, founder of the American Ornithologists' Union, hammered away in the popular press. The public was introduced to a new concept: extinction.\nMarket hunting for the millinery trade and for the table was one aspect of the problem. The early naturalists also killed birds and other wildlife for study, personal curio collections and museum pieces. While habitat losses continued as communities and farmland grew, the widespread use of pesticides and the introduction of non-native species also affected wildlife.\n\nOne species in particular received widespread attention—the whooping crane. The species' historical range extended from central Canada south to Mexico, and from Utah to the Atlantic coast. Unregulated hunting and habitat loss contributed to a steady decline in the whooping crane population until, by 1890, it had disappeared from its primary breeding range in the north central United States. It would be another eight years before the first national law regulating wildlife commerce was signed, and another two years before the first version of the endangered species act was passed. The whooping crane population by 1941 was estimated at about only 16 birds still in the wild.\n\nThe Lacey Act of 1900 was the first federal law that regulated commercial animal markets. It prohibited interstate commerce of animals killed in violation of state game laws, and covered all fish and wildlife and their parts or products, as well as plants. Other legislation followed, including the Migratory Bird Conservation Act of 1929, a 1937 treaty prohibiting the hunting of right and gray whales, and the Bald Eagle Protection Act of 1940. These later laws had a low cost to society–the species were relatively rare–and little opposition was raised.\n\nWhereas the Lacey Act dealt with game animal management and market commerce species, a major shift in focus occurred by 1963 to habitat preservation instead of take regulations. A provision was added by Congress in the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 that provided money for the \"acquisition of land, waters...for the preservation of species of fish and wildlife that are threatened with extinction.\"\n\nThe predecessor of the ESA was the Endangered Species Preservation Act of 1966 (P.L. 89-669 ). Passed by Congress, this act permitted the listing of native U.S. animal species as endangered and for limited protections upon those animals.\n\nIt authorized the Secretary of the Interior to list endangered domestic fish and wildlife and allowed the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to spend up to $15 million per year to buy habitats for listed species. It also directed federal land agencies to preserve habitat on their lands. The Act also consolidated and even expanded authority for the Secretary of the Interior to manage and administer the National Wildlife Refuge System. Other public agencies were encouraged, but not required, to protect species. The act did not address the commerce in endangered species and parts.\n\nIn March, 1967 the first list of endangered species was issued under the act. It included 14 mammals, 36 birds, 6 reptiles and amphibians and 22 fish.\n\nThis first list is referred to as the \"Class of '67\" in \"The Endangered Species Act at Thirty\", Volume 1, which concludes that habitat destruction, the biggest threat to those 78 species, is still the same threat to the currently listed species. It included only vertebrates because the Department of Interior's definition of \"fish and wildlife\" was limited to vertebrates. However, with time, researchers noticed that the animals on the endangered species list still were not getting enough protection, thus further threatening their extinction. The endangered species program was expanded by the Endangered Species Act of 1969.\n\nThe Endangered Species Conservation Act (P. L. 91–135), passed in December, 1969, amended the original law to provide additional protection to species in danger of \"worldwide extinction\" by prohibiting their importation and subsequent sale in the United States. It expanded the Lacey Act's ban on interstate commerce to include mammals, reptiles, amphibians, mollusks and crustaceans. Reptiles were added mainly to reduce the rampant poaching of alligators and crocodiles. This law was the first time that invertebrates were included for protection.\n\nThe amendment called for an international meeting to adopt a convention or treaty to conserve endangered species.\nThat meeting was held in Washington, D.C., in February, 1973 and produced the comprehensive multilateral treaty known as CITES or Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.\n\nPresident Richard Nixon declared current species conservation efforts to be inadequate and called on the 93rd United States Congress to pass comprehensive endangered species legislation. Congress responded with a completely rewritten law, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, which was signed by Nixon on December 28, 1973 (). It was written by a team of lawyers and scientists, including Dr. Russell E. Train, the first appointed head of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), an outgrowth of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969. Dr. Train was assisted by a core group of staffers, including Dr. Earl Baysinger at EPA, Dick Gutting, and Dr. Gerard A. \"Jerry\" Bertrand, a Ph.D marine biologist by training (Oregon State University), who had transferred from his post as the scientific adviser to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, office of the Commandant of the Corps, to join the newly formed White House office. The staff, under Dr. Train's leadership, incorporated dozens of new principles and ideas into the landmark legislation, crafting a document that completely changed the direction of environmental conservation in the United States. Dr. Bertrand is credited with writing the most challenged section of the Act, the \"takings\" clause – Section 2. \n\nThe stated purpose of the Endangered Species Act is to protect species and also \"the ecosystems upon which they depend.\" California historian Kevin Starr was more emphatic when he said: \"The Endangered Species Act of 1982 is the Magna Carta of the environmental movement.\"\n\nThe ESA is administered by two federal agencies, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) (which includes the National Marine Fisheries Service, or NMFS). NOAA handles marine species, and the FWS has responsibility over freshwater fish and all other species. Species that occur in both habitats (e.g. sea turtles and Atlantic sturgeon) are jointly managed.\n\nIn March 2008, \"The Washington Post\" reported that documents showed that the Bush Administration, beginning in 2001, had erected \"pervasive bureaucratic obstacles\" that limited the number of species protected under the act:\n\nIn 2014, the House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Endangered Species Transparency Act, which would require the government to disclose the data it uses to determine species classification.\n\nThe ESA's primary goal is to prevent the extinction of imperiled plant and animal life, and secondly, to recover and maintain those populations by removing or lessening threats to their survival.\n\nTo be considered for listing, the species must meet one of five criteria (section 4(a)(1)):\n\n1. There is the present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range.\n2. An over utilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes.\n3. The species is declining due to disease or predation.\n4. There is an inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms.\n5. There are other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence.\n\nPotential candidate species are then prioritized, with \"emergency listing\" given the highest priority. Species that face a \"significant risk to their well being\" are in this category.\n\nA species can be listed in two ways. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) or NOAA Fisheries (also called the National Marine Fisheries Service) can directly list a species through its candidate assessment program, or an individual or organizational petition may request that the FWS or NMFS list a species. A \"species\" under the act can be a true taxonomic species, a subspecies, or in the case of vertebrates, a \"distinct population segment.\" The procedures are the same for both types except with the person/organization petition, there is a 90-day screening period.\n\nDuring the listing process, economic factors cannot be considered, but must be \" based solely on the best scientific and commercial data available.\" The 1982 amendment to the ESA added the word \"solely\" to prevent any consideration other than the biological status of the species. Congress rejected President Ronald Reagan's Executive Order which required economic analysis of all government agency actions. The House committee's statement was \"that economic considerations have no relevance to determinations regarding the status of species.\"\n\nThe very opposite result happened with the 1978 amendment where Congress added the words \"...taking into consideration the economic impact...\" in the provision on critical habitat designation.\nThe 1978 amendment linked the listing procedure with critical habitat designation and economic considerations, which almost completely halted new listings, with almost 2,000 species being withdrawn from consideration.\n\nAfter receiving a petition to list a species, the two federal agencies take the following steps, or rulemaking procedures, with each step being published in the \"Federal Register\", the US government's official journal of proposed or adopted rules and regulations:\n\n1. If a petition presents information that the species may be imperiled, a screening period of 90 days begins (interested persons and/or organization petitions only). If the petition does not present substantial information to support listing, it is denied.\n\n2. If the information is substantial, a status review is started, which is a comprehensive assessment of a species' biological status and threats, with a result of : \"warranted\", \"not warranted,\" or \"warranted but precluded.\"\nEssentially the \"warranted but precluded\" finding is a deferral added by the 1982 amendment to the ESA. It means other, higher-priority actions will take precedence.\nFor example, an emergency listing of a rare plant growing in a wetland that is scheduled to be filled in for housing construction would be a \"higher-priority\".\n\n3. Within another year, a final determination (a final rule) must be made on whether to list the species. The final rule time limit may be extended for 6 months and listings may be grouped together according to similar geography, threats, habitat or taxonomy.\n\nThe annual rate of listing (i.e., classifying species as \"threatened\" or \"endangered\") increased steadily from the Ford administration (47 listings, 15 per year) through Carter (126 listings, 32 per year), Reagan (255 listings, 32 per year), George H. W. Bush (231 listings, 58 per year), and Clinton (521 listings, 65 per year) before decline to its lowest rate under George W. Bush (60 listings, 8 per year as of 5/24/08).\n\nThe rate of listing is strongly correlated with citizen involvement and mandatory timelines: as agency discretion decreases and citizen involvement increases (i.e. filing of petitions and lawsuits) the rate of listing increases. Citizen involvement has been shown to identify species not moving through the process efficiently, and identify more imperiled species. The longer species are listed, the more likely they are to be classified as recovering by the FWS.\n\nPublic notice is given through legal notices in newspapers, and communicated to state and county agencies within the species' area. Foreign nations may also receive notice of a listing.\nA public hearing is mandatory if any person has requested one within 45 days of the published notice.\n\"The purpose of the notice and comment requirement is to provide for meaningful public participation in the rulemaking process.\" summarized the Ninth Circuit court in the case of \"Idaho Farm Bureau Federation v. Babbitt\".\n\nThe provision of the law in Section 4 that establishes critical habitat is a regulatory link between habitat protection and recovery goals, requiring the identification and protection of all lands, water and air necessary to recover endangered species.\nTo determine what exactly is critical habitat, the needs of open space for individual and population growth, food, water, light or other nutritional requirements, breeding sites, seed germination and dispersal needs, and lack of disturbances are considered.\n\nAs habitat loss is the primary threat to most imperiled species, the Endangered Species Act of 1973 allowed the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to designate specific areas as protected \"critical habitat\" zones. In 1978, Congress amended the law to make critical habitat designation a mandatory requirement for all threatened and endangered species.\n\nThe amendment also added economics into the process of determining habitat: \"...shall designate critical habitat... on the basis of the best scientific data available and after taking into consideration the economic impact, and any other impact, of specifying... area as critical habitat.\"\nThe congressional report on the 1978 amendment described the conflict between the new Section 4 additions and the rest of the law:\n\n\"... the critical habitat provision is a startling section which is wholly inconsistent with the rest of the legislation. It constitutes a loophole which could readily be abused by any Secretary ... who is vulnerable to political pressure or who is not sympathetic to the basic purposes of the Endangered Species Act.\"-- House of Representatives Report 95-1625, at 69 (1978)\nThe amendment of 1978 added economic considerations and the 1982 amendment prevented economic considerations.\n\nSeveral studies on the effect of critical habitat designation on species' recovery rates have been done between 1997 and 2003. Although it has been criticized, the Taylor study in 2003 found that, \"species with critical habitat were... twice as likely to be improving...\"\n\nCritical habitats are required to contain \"all areas essential to the conservation\" of the imperiled species, and may be on private or public lands. The Fish and Wildlife Service has a policy limiting designation to lands and waters within the U.S. and both federal agencies may exclude essential areas if they determine that economic or other costs exceed the benefit. The ESA is mute about how such costs and benefits are to be determined.\n\nAll federal agencies are prohibited from authorizing, funding or carrying out actions that \"destroy or adversely modify\" critical habitats (Section 7(a) (2)). While the regulatory aspect of critical habitat does not apply directly to private and other non-federal landowners, large-scale development, logging and mining projects on private and state land typically require a federal permit and thus become subject to critical habitat regulations. Outside or in parallel with regulatory processes, critical habitats also focus and encourage voluntary actions such as land purchases, grant making, restoration, and establishment of reserves.\n\nThe ESA requires that critical habitat be designated at the time of or within one year of a species being placed on the endangered list. In practice, most designations occur several years after listing. Between 1978 and 1986 the FWS regularly designated critical habitat. In 1986 the Reagan Administration issued a regulation limiting the protective status of critical habitat. As a result, few critical habitats were designated between 1986 and the late 1990s. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, a series of court orders invalidated the Reagan regulations and forced the FWS and NMFS to designate several hundred critical habitats, especially in Hawaii, California and other western states. Midwest and Eastern states received less critical habitat, primarily on rivers and coastlines. As of December, 2006, the Reagan regulation has not yet been replaced though its use has been suspended. Nonetheless, the agencies have generally changed course and since about 2005 have tried to designate critical habitat at or near the time of listing.\n\nMost provisions of the ESA revolve around preventing extinction. Critical habitat is one of the few that focus on recovery. Species with critical habitat are twice as likely to be recovering as species without critical habitat.\n\nThe combined result of the amendments to the Endangered Species Act have created a law vastly different from the ESA of 1973. It is now a flexible, permitting statute. For example, the law now permits \"incidental takes\" (accidental killing or harming a listed species). Congress added the requirements for \"incidental take statement\", and authorized a \"incidental take permit\" in conjunction with \"habitat conservation plans\".\n\nMore changes were made in the 1990s in an attempt by Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt to shield the ESA from a Congress hostile to the law. He instituted incentive-based strategies such as candidate conservation agreements and \"safe harbor\" agreements that would balance the goals of economic development and conservation.\n\nFish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) are required to create an Endangered Species Recovery Plan outlining the goals, tasks required, likely costs, and estimated timeline to recover endangered species (i.e., increase their numbers and improve their management to the point where they can be removed from the endangered list). The ESA does not specify when a recovery plan must be completed. The FWS has a policy specifying completion within three years of the species being listed, but the average time to completion is approximately six years. The annual rate of recovery plan completion increased steadily from the Ford administration (4) through Carter (9), Reagan (30), Bush I (44), and Clinton (72), but declined under Bush II (16 per year as of 9/1/06).\n\nThe goal of the law is to make itself unnecessary, and recovery plans are a means toward that goal. Recovery plans became more specific after 1988 when Congress added provisions to Section 4(f) of the law that spelled out the minimum contents of a recovery plan. Three types of information must be included:\n\nThe amendment also added public participation to the process. There is a ranking order, similar to the listing procedures, for recovery plans, with the highest priority being for species most likely to benefit from recovery plans, especially when the threat is from construction, or other developmental or economic activity. Recovery plans cover domestic and migratory species.\n\nExemptions can and do occur. The ESA requires federal agencies to consult with the US Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) or the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) if any project occurs in the habitat of a listed species. An example of such a project might be a timber harvest proposed by the US Forest Service. If the timber harvest could impact a listed species, a biological assessment is prepared by the Forest Service and reviewed by the FWS or NMFS or both.\n\nThe question to be answered is whether a listed species will be harmed by the action and, if so, how the harm can be minimized. If harm cannot be avoided, the project agency can seek an exemption from the Endangered Species Committee, an ad hoc panel composed of members from the executive branch and at least one appointee from the state where the project is to occur. Five of the seven committee members must vote for the exemption to allow taking (to harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect, or significant habitat modification, or to attempt to engage in any such conduct) of listed species.\n\nLong before the exemption is considered by the Endangered Species Committee, the Forest Service, and either the FWS or the NMFS will have consulted on the biological implications of the timber harvest. The consultation can be informal, to determine if harm may occur; and then formal if the harm is believed to be likely. The questions to be answered in these consultations are whether the species will be harmed, whether the habitat will be harmed and if the action will aid or hinder the recovery of the listed species.\n\nIf harm is likely to occur, the consultation evaluates whether \"reasonable and prudent alternatives\" exist to minimize harm. If an alternative does not exist, the FWS or NMFS will issue an opinion that the action constitutes \"jeopardy\" to the listed species either directly or indirectly. The project cannot then occur unless exempted by the Endangered Species Committee.\n\nThe Committee must make a decision on the exemption within 30 days, when its findings are published in the \"Federal Register\". The findings can be challenged in federal court. In 1992, one such challenge was the case of\" Portland Audubon Society\" v. \"Endangered Species Committee\" heard in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nThe court found that three members had been in illegal \"ex parte\" contact with the then-President George H.W. Bush, a violation of the Administrative Procedures Act. The committee's exemption was for the Bureau of Land Management's timber sale and \"incidental takes\" of the endangered northern spotted owl in Oregon.\n\nThere have been six instances as of 2009 in which the exemption process was initiated. Of these six, one was granted, one was partially granted, one was denied and three were withdrawn.\nDonald Baur, in \"The Endangered Species Act: law, policy, and perspectives\", concluded,\" ... the exemption provision is basically a nonfactor in the administration of the ESA. A major reason, of course, is that so few consultations result in jeopardy opinions, and those that do almost always result in the identification of reasonable and prudent alternatives to avoid jeopardy.\"\n\nMore than half of habitat for listed species is on non-federal property, owned by citizens, states, local governments, tribal governments and private organizations. Before the law was amended in 1982, a listed species could be taken only for scientific or research purposes. The amendment created a permit process to circumvent the take prohibition called a Habitat Conservation Plan or HCP to give incentives to non-federal land managers and private landowners to help protect listed and unlisted species, while allowing economic development that may harm (\"take\") the species.\n\nThe US Fish and Wildlife Service defines the process as: \"The purpose of the habitat conservation planning process associated with the permit is to ensure there is adequate minimizing and mitigating of the effects of the authorized incidental take. The purpose of the incidental take permit is to authorize the incidental take of a listed species, not to authorize the activities that result in take.\"\nThe person or organization submits a HCP and if approved by the agency (FWS or NMFS), will be issued an Incidental Take Permit (ITP) which allows a certain number of \"takes\" of the listed species. The permit may be revoked at any time and can allow incidental takes for varying amounts of time. For instance, the San Bruno Habitat Conservation Plan/ Incidental Take Permit is good for 30 years and the Wal-Mart store (in Florida) permit expires after one year. Because the permit is issued by a federal agency to a private party, it is a federal action-which means other federal laws can apply, such as the National Environmental Policy Act or NEPA. A notice of the permit application action is published in the \"Federal Register\" and a public comment period of 30 to 90 days begins.\n\nThe US Congress was urged to create the exemption by proponents of a conservation plan on San Bruno Mountain, California that was drafted in the early 1980s and is the first HCP in the nation. In the conference report on the 1982 amendments, Congress specified that it intended the San Bruno plan to act \"as a model\" for future conservation plans developed under the incidental take exemption provision and that \"the adequacy of similar conservation plans should be measured against the San Bruno plan\". Congress further noted that the San Bruno plan was based on \"an independent exhaustive biological study\" and protected at least 87% of the habitat of the listed butterflies that led to the development of the HCP.\n\nGrowing scientific recognition of the role of private lands for endangered species recovery and the landmark 1981 court decision in \"Palila\" v. \"Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources\" both contributed to making Habitat Conservation Plans/ Incidental Take Permits \"a major force for wildlife conservation and a major headache to the development community\", wrote Robert D. Thornton in the 1991 \"Environmental Law\" article, \"Searching for Consensus and Predictability: Habitat Conservation Planning under the Endangered Species Act of 1973\".\n\nThe \"No Surprises\" rule is meant to protect the landowner if \"unforeseen circumstances\" occur which make the landowner's efforts to prevent or mitigate harm to the species fall short. The \"No Surprises\" policy may be the most controversial of the recent reforms of the law, because once an Incidental Take Permit is granted, the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) loses much ability to further protect a species if the mitigation measures by the landowner prove insufficient. The landowner or permittee would not be required to set aside additional land or pay more in conservation money. The federal government would have to pay for additional protection measures.\n\nThe \"Safe Harbor\" agreement is a voluntary agreement between the private landowner and FWS. The landowner agrees to alter the property to benefit or even attract a listed or proposed species in exchange for assurances that the FWS will permit future \"takes\" above a pre-determined level. The policy relies on the \"enhancement of survival\" provision of Section §1539(a)(1)(A). A landowner can have either a \"Safe Harbor\" agreement or an Incidental Take Permit, or both. The policy was developed by the Clinton Administration in 1999.\n\nThe Candidate Conservation Agreement is closely related to the \"Safe Harbor\" agreement, the main difference is that the Candidate Conservation Agreements With Assurances(CCA) are meant to protect \"unlisted\" species by providing incentives to private landowners and land managing agencies to restore, enhance or maintain habitat of unlisted species which are declining and have the potential to become threatened or endangered if critical habitat is not protected. The FWS will then assure that if, in the future the unlisted species becomes listed, the landowner will not be required to do more than already agreed upon in the CCA.\n\nThe Experimental Population Provision encourages introductions of species into formerly occupied or new habitat without the full range of legal restrictions for endangered species. The provision was added to the act in 1982 to encourage landowner support for species survival and recovery. Experimental populations could be used for the assisted migration of endangered species.\n\nTo delist species, several factors are considered: the threats are eliminated or controlled, population size and growth, and the stability of habitat quality and quantity. Also, over a dozen species have been delisted due to inaccurate data putting them on the list in the first place.\n\nThere is also \"downlisting\" of a species where some of the threats have been controlled and the population has met recovery objectives, then the species can be reclassified to \"threatened\" from \"endangered\"\n\nTwo examples of animal species recently delisted are: the Virginia northern flying squirrel (subspecies) on August, 2008, which had been listed since 1985, and the gray wolf (Northern Rocky Mountain DPS). On April 15, 2011, President Obama signed the Department of Defense and Full-Year Appropriations Act of 2011. A section of that Appropriations Act directed the Secretary of the Interior to reissue within 60 days of enactment the final rule published on April 2, 2009, that identified the Northern Rocky Mountain population of gray wolf (\"Canis lupus\") as a distinct population segment (DPS) and to revise the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife by removing most of the gray wolves in the DPS.\n\nThe US Fish and Wildlife Service's delisting report lists four plants that have recovered:\n\nAs of September 2012, fifty-six species have been delisted; twenty-eight due to recovery, ten due to extinction (seven of which are believed to have been extinct prior to being listed), ten due to changes in taxonomic classification practices, six due to discovery of new populations, one due to an error in the listing rule, and one due to an amendment to the Endangered Species Act specifically requiring the species delisting. Twenty-five others have been down listed from \"endangered\" to \"threatened\" status.\n\nSome have argued that the recovery of DDT-threatened species such as the bald eagle, brown pelican and peregrine falcon should be attributed to the 1972 ban on DDT by the EPA. rather than the Endangered Species Act, however, the listing of these species as endangered was a substantial cause of Congress instituting the ban and many non-DDT oriented actions were taken on their behalf under the Endangered Species Act (i.e. captive breeding, habitat protection, and protection from disturbance).\n\nAs of October 28, 2012, there are 2,052 total (foreign and domestic) species on the threatened and endangered lists. However, many species have become extinct while on the candidate list or otherwise under consideration for listing.\nSpecies which increased in population size since being placed on the endangered list include:\n\nOpponents of the Endangered Species Act argue that with over 2,000 endangered species listed, and only 28 delisted due to recovery, the success rate of 1% over nearly three decades proves that there needs to be serious reform in their methods to actually help the endangered animals and plants.\nOthers argue that the ESA may encourage preemptive habitat destruction by landowners who fear losing the use of their land because of the presence of an endangered species; known colloquially as \"Shoot, Shovel and Shut-Up.\" One example of such perverse incentives is the case of a forest owner who, in response to ESA listing of the red-cockaded woodpecker, increased harvesting and shortened the age at which he harvests his trees to ensure that they do not become old enough to become suitable habitat. While no studies have shown that the Act's negative effects, in total, exceed the positive effects, many economists believe that finding a way to reduce such perverse incentives would lead to more effective protection of endangered species.\n\nAccording to research published in 1999 by Alan Green and the Center for Public Integrity (CPI), loopholes in the ESA are commonly exploited in the exotic pet trade. Although the legislation prohibits interstate and foreign transactions for list species, no provisions are made for in-state commerce, allowing these animals to be sold to roadside zoos and private collectors. Additionally, the ESA allows listed species to be shipped across state lines as long as they are not sold. According to Green and the CPI, this allows dealers to \"donate\" listed species through supposed \"breeding loans\" to anyone, and in return they can legally receive a reciprocal monetary \"donation\" from the receiving party. Furthermore, an interview with an endangered species specialist at the US Fish and Wildlife Service revealed that the agency does not have sufficient staff to perform undercover investigations, which would catch these false \"donations\" and other mislabeled transactions.\n\nGreen and the CPI further noted another exploit of the ESA in their discussion of the critically endangered cotton-top tamarin (\"Saguinus oedipus\"). Not only had they found documentation that 151 of these primates had inadvertently made their way from the Harvard-affiliated New England Regional Primate Research Center into the exotic pet trade through the aforementioned loophole, but in October 1976, over 800 cotton-top tamarins were imported into the United States in order to beat the official listing of the species under the ESA.\n\nSection 6 of the Endangered Species Act provided funding for development of programs for management of threatened and endangered species by state wildlife agencies. Subsequently, lists of endangered and threatened species within their boundaries have been prepared by each state. These state lists often include species which are considered endangered or threatened within a specific state but not within all states, and which therefore are not included on the national list of endangered and threatened species. Examples include Florida, Minnesota, Maine,\n\nThere are different degrees of violation with the law. The most punishable offenses are trafficking, and any act of knowingly \"taking\" (which includes harming, wounding, or killing) an endangered species.\n\nThe penalties for these violations can be a maximum fine of up to $50,000 or imprisonment for one year, or both, and civil penalties of up to $25,000 per violation may be assessed. Lists of violations and exact fines are available through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration web-site.\n\nOne provision of this law is that no penalty may be imposed if, by a preponderance of the evidence that the act was in self-defense. The law also eliminates criminal penalties for accidentally killing listed species during farming and ranching activities.\n\nIn addition to fines or imprisonment, a license, permit, or other agreement issued by a federal agency that authorized an individual to import or export fish, wildlife, or plants may be revoked, suspended or modified. Any federal hunting or fishing permits that were issued to a person who violates the ESA can be canceled or suspended for up to a year.\n\nA reward will be paid to any person who furnishes information which leads to an arrest, conviction, or revocation of a license, so long as they are not a local, state, or federal employee in the performance of official duties. The Secretary may \"also\" provide reasonable and necessary costs incurred for the care of fish, wildlife, and forest service or plant pending the violation caused by the criminal. If the balance ever exceeds $500,000 the Secretary of the Treasury is required to deposit an amount equal to the excess into the cooperative endangered species conservation fund.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179382", "title": "Eurocentrism", "text": "Eurocentrism\n\nEurocentrism (also Eurocentricity or Western-centrism) is a worldview centered on or biased towards Western civilization. The exact scope of centrism varies from the entire Western world to only Europe or even just Western Europe (especially during the Cold War). When applied to history, it may refer to an apologetic stance towards European colonialism and other forms of imperialism.\n\nThe term \"Eurocentrism\" itself dates back to the late 1970s and became prevalent during the 1990s, especially in the context of decolonization and development and humanitarian aid offered by industrialised countries (First World) to developing countries (Third World).\n\nThe adjective \"Eurocentric\", or \"Europe-centric\", has been in use, in various contexts, since at least the 1920s. The term was popularised (in French as \"européocentrique\") in the context of decolonization and internationalism in the mid-20th century. English usage of \"Eurocentric\" as an ideological term in identity politics was current by the mid-1980s.\n\nThe abstract noun \"Eurocentrism\" (French \"eurocentrisme\", earlier \"europocentrisme\") as the term for an ideology was coined in the 1970s by the Egyptian Marxian economist Samir Amin, then director of the African Institute for Economic Development and Planning of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. Amin used the term in the context of a global, core-periphery or dependency model of capitalist development. English usage of \"Eurocentrism\" is recorded by 1979.\n\nThe coinage of Western-centrism is younger, attested in the late 1990s, and specific to English.\n\nDuring the European colonial era, encyclopedias often sought to give a rationale for the predominance of European rule during the colonial period by referring to a special position taken by Europe compared to the other continents.\n\nThus, Johann Heinrich Zedler, in 1741, wrote that \"even though Europe is the smallest of the world's four continents, it has for various reasons a position that places it before all others... Its inhabitants have excellent customs, they are courteous and erudite in both sciences and crafts\".\n\nThe \"Brockhaus Enzyklopädie\" (\"Conversations-Lexicon\") of 1847 still has an ostensibly Eurocentric approach and claims about Europe that \"its geographical situation and its cultural and political significance is clearly the most important of the five continents, over which it has gained a most influential government both in material and even more so in cultural aspects\".\n\nEuropean exceptionalism thus grew out of the Great Divergence of the Early Modern period, \ndue to the combined effects of the Scientific Revolution, the Commercial Revolution, and the rise of colonial empires, the Industrial Revolution and a Second European colonization wave.\n\nEuropean exceptionalism is widely reflected in popular genres of literature, especially literature for young adults (for example, Rudyard Kipling's \"Kim)\" and adventure literature in general. Portrayal of European colonialism in such literature has been analysed in terms of Eurocentrism in retrospect, such as presenting idealised and often exaggeratedly masculine Western heroes, who conquered 'savage' peoples in the remaining 'dark spaces' of the globe.\n\nThe European miracle, a term coined by Eric Jones in 1981, refers to this surprising rise of Europe during the Early Modern period. During the 15th to 18th centuries, a great divergence took place, comprising the European Renaissance, age of discovery, the formation of the colonial empires, the Age of Reason, and the associated leap forward in technology and the development of capitalism and early industrialisation. The result was that by the 19th century, European powers dominated world trade and world politics.\n\nEurocentrism is a way of dominating the exchange of ideas to show the superiority of one perspective and how much power it holds over different social groups.\n\nEven in the 19th century, anticolonial movements had developed claims about national traditions and values that were set against those of Europe. In some cases, as China, where local ideology was even more exclusionist than the Eurocentric one, Westernisation did not overwhelm longstanding Chinese attitudes to its own cultural centrality, but some would state that idea itself is a rather desperate attempt to cast Europe in a good light by comparison.\n\nOrientalism developed in the late 18th century as a disproportionate Western interest in and idealization of Eastern (i.e. Asian) cultures.\n\nBy the early 20th century, some historians, such as Arnold J. Toynbee, were attempting to construct multifocal models of world civilizations. Toynbee also drew attention in Europe to non-European historians, such as the medieval Tunisian scholar Ibn Khaldun. He also established links with Asian thinkers, such as through his dialogues with Daisaku Ikeda of Soka Gakkai International.\n\nThe explicit concept of Eurocentrism is a product of the period of decolonisation in the 1960s to 1970s. Its original context is the core-periphery or dependency model of capitalist development of Marxian economics (Amin 1974, 1988).\n\nEurocentrism has been a particularly important concept in development studies. \nBrohman (1995) argued that Eurocentrism \"perpetuated intellectual dependence on a restricted group of prestigious Western academic institutions that determine the subject matter and methods of research\".\n\nIn treatises on historical or contemporary Eurocentrism that appeared since the 1990s, Eurocentrism is mostly cast in terms of dualisms such as \ncivilized/barbaric or advanced/backward, developed/undeveloped, core/periphery, implying \"evolutionary schemas through which societies inevitably progress\", with a remnant of an \"underlying presumption of a superior white Western self as referent of analysis\" (640). Eurocentrism and the dualistic properties that it labels on non-European countries, cultures and persons have often been criticized in the political discourse of the 1990s and 2000s, particularly in the greater context of political correctness, race in the United States and affirmative action.\nIn the 1990s, there was a trend of criticizing various geographic terms current in the English language as Eurocentric, such as \nthe traditional division of Eurasia into Europe and Asia or the term Middle East.\nEric Sheppard, in 2005, argued that contemporary Marxism itself has Eurocentric traits (in spite of \"Eurocentrism\" originating in the vocabulary of Marxian economics), because it supposes that the third world must go through a stage of capitalism before \"progressive social formations can be envisioned\".\n\nThere has been some debate on whether historical Eurocentrism qualifies as \"just another ethnocentrism\", as it is found in most of the world's cultures, especially in cultures with imperial aspirations, as in the Sinocentrism in China; in the Empire of Japan (c. 1868-1945), or during the American Century. James M. Blaut (2000) argued that Eurocentrism indeed army beyond other ethnocentrisms, as the scale of European colonial expansion was historically unprecedented and resulted in the formation of a \"colonizer's model of the world\".\n\nThe terms Afrocentrism vs. Eurocentrism have come to play a role in the 2000s to 2010s in the context of the political discourse on race in the United States and critical whiteness studies, aiming to expose white supremacism and white privilege.\n\nAfrocentrist scholars, such as Molefi Asante, have argued that there is a prevalence of Eurocentric thought in the processing of much of academia on African affairs. On the other hand, in an article, 'Eurocentrism and Academic Imperialism' by Professor Seyed Mohammad Marandi, from the University of Tehran, states that Eurocentric thought exists in almost all aspects of academia in many parts of the world, especially in the humanities. Edgar Alfred Bowring states that in the West, self-regard, self-congratulation and denigration of the ‘Other’ run more deeply and those tendencies have infected more aspects of their thinking, laws and policy than anywhere else. Luke Clossey and Nicholas Guyatt have measured the degree of Eurocentrism in the research programs of top history departments. In Southern Europe and Latin America, a number of academic proposals to offer alternatives to the Eurocentric perspective have emerged, such as the project of the Epistemologies of the South by Portuguese scholar Boaventura de Sousa Santos and those of the Subaltern Studies groups in India and Latin America (the Modernity/Coloniality Group of Anibal Quijano, Edgardo Lander, Enrique Dussel, Santiago Castro-Gómez, Ramón Grosfoguel, and others.\n\nGeorg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831) was the leading supporter of Eurocentrism, believing that world history started in the East but ended in the West, especially in Prussia's constitutional monarchy. His real interest in history was in Europe and Oriental culture was only one episode of world history to him. In \"Lectures on the Philosophy of History\", he claimed that world history started in Asia but shifted to Greece and Italy, and then north of the Alps to France, Germany and England. According to Hegel, India and China are stationary countries which lack inner momentum. China replaced the real historically development with a fixed, stable scenario, which makes it the outsider of world history. Both India and China were waiting and anticipating a combination of certain factors from outside until they can acquire real progress in human civilization. Hegel's ideas had a profound impact on western history. Some scholars disagree with his ideas that the Oriental countries were outside of world history. However, they accepted that the oriental countries were constantly in a stagnant state.\n\nMax Weber (1864-1920) was considered as the most ardent supporter of Eurocentrism, and he suggested that capitalism is the specialty of Europe and Oriental countries such as India and China do not contain sufficient factors to develop capitalism. Weber wrote many treatises to publicize the distinctiveness of Europe. In \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\", he wrote that the \"rational\" capitalism manifested by its enterprises and mechanisms only appear in the Protestant western countries, and a series of generalized and universal cultural phenomena only appear in the west. Even the state, with a written constitution and a government organized by trained administrators and constrained by rational law, only appear in the west, even though other regimes can also comprise states. Rationality is a multi-layered term whose connotations are developed and escalated as with the social progress. Weber regarded rationality as a proprietary article for western capitalist society.\n\nAndre Gunder Frank harshly criticized Eurocentrism. He believed that most scholars were the desciples of the social sciences and history guided by Eurocentrism. He criticized some western scholars for their ideas that non-west areas lack outstanding contributions in history, economy, ideology, politics and culture compared with the west. These scholars believed that the same contribution made by the west gives westerners an advantage of endo-genetic momentum which is pushed towards the rest of the world, but Frank believed that the Oriental countries also contributed to the human civilization in their own perspectives.\n\nArnold Toynbee (1889-1975) argued that the unit for historical research is the society instead of the state. There are over 20 civilizations in the world history. In his \"A Study of History\", he gave a critical remark on Eurocentrism. He believed that although western capitalism shrouded the world and achieved a political unity based on its economy, the western countries cannot \"westernize\" other countries. Toynbee concluded that Eurocentrism is characteristic of three misconceptions manifested by self-centerment, the fixed development of Oriental countries and the linear progress.\n\nSome historians claim that American culture is largely biased in favor of a white, male, and European context, due to the long-term influence of European practices.\n"}
{"id": "125294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=125294", "title": "European Youth Parliament", "text": "European Youth Parliament\n\nThe European Youth Parliament is a politically unbound non-profit organisation, which encourages European youth to actively engage in citizenship and cultural understanding.\nIt involves 50,000 youngsters from all around Europe in its events and has around 5,000 active members in the different countries. It was established in 1987 in Fontainebleau, France.\n\nThe European Youth Parliament was founded by Bettina Carr-Allinson, initially as a school project at the Lycée François-Ier in Fontainebleau, to the south of Paris. It is there that three of the first four International Sessions were held, starting in 1988, about a year after the idea took place.\n\nIt then developed steadily for a few years until it moved to Witney, Oxfordshire, in 1991, and was legally recognised as the \"European Youth Parliament International Ltd.\", a subsidiary of a charity created in 1992 for this purpose, the Fontainebleau Youth Foundation. \nThe organisation experienced an enduring growth for the next ten years, its network counting an increasing number of National Committees and its activities becoming both larger and more numerous. The National Committees stretch beyond the scope of countries within the European Union and try to encompass all European countries.\n\nIn the years 2001 to 2004, the EYP encountered various problems of financial nature.\nOn November 4, 2004, however, the European Youth Parliament was reborn due to a mutual agreement between representatives of EYP's Board of National Committees, alumni and the Heinz-Schwarzkopf Foundation. The EYP's status since then has been a programme of the Schwarzkopf-Stiftung Junges Europa, and is hosted in Berlin, Germany.\n\nThe actual activities of the EYP never faltered during this period.\n\nSince 2004, the EYP has introduced several reforms to introduce more transparency in its institutions and further enlarged its activities.\n\nAt the international level, the EYP is governed by an international board, the Governing Body. The Governing Body has six members elected by the National Committees and by the alumni of past sessions. A representative of the Heinz-Schwarzkopf Foundation is also a member. \nThe board is largely responsible for the quality assurance of the International Sessions but also takes responsibility for the overall direction of the organisation and the long-term sustainability and protection of the organisation. \nThe day-to-day business of the organisation is administered by a hired manager at the International Office in Berlin. Philipp J. Scharff was the manager from 2004 until 2008, Jan Phillip Beck (DE) from 2008 until 2011 and Ville Vasaramäki (FI) from 2011 until 2013. Krista Lagus (FI) has been the Executive Director of the EYP since 2013. Since 30 January 2017, Krista Lagus is on maternity leave. Lukas Fendel (DE) is taking on the role of Executive Director for the time of her leave.\n\nAt the national level, the National Committees are free to choose how to manage themselves, though the form of management must comply with basic democratic principles. It is the responsibility of the National Committees to organise and fund their own national sessions (more about them below). International Sessions can receive limited funding from EYP at the international level but are largely responsible for their economy as well. Sessions are usually funded through sponsorship from various organisations or corporations. Each session must be economically independent.\n\nEYP organises three international nine-day sessions each year. They are organised in different countries and all European countries are invited to join, not just members of the EU. Each country's national committee selects a delegation to participate in each session, the size of the delegation depends on the country and how long time its National Committee has been part of EYP. The delegations are then spread out in different committees, each committee with a particular topic. This ensures a maximised cultural diversity in the committee and serves as a strong incentive to socialise and make friends with people from the committee.\n\nEach international session starts with of a two-day Teambuilding part, in which delegates get acquainted with each other and start improving the group dynamics of the committee. The delegates play different games which are meant to bring the delegates from an initial shyness stage to a comfortable, open atmosphere optimal for efficient Committee work.\n\nThis is followed by four or five days for Committee Work. During this time the delegates discuss a problematic topic on current European political matters and write a resolution on how to deal with the issue. A member of the European Parliament or some alternative expert will generally visit once to answer questions and quickly discuss the topic with the Committee.\n\nThe sessions end with a General Assembly, in which the committee resolutions are looked through, altered and approved (or if the resolution is found unacceptable, not approved). If a resolution is approved it is sent on to the European Parliament, for the consideration of MEPs. General Assembly is usually held in some honorary or prestigious location, such as the host country's Houses of Parliament or the main hall of the City Council.\n\nAdditionally National Committees of EYP organise several national and regional sessions every year. National sessions are to select a delegation for one of the upcoming international sessions. These sessions are shorter, lasting normally three days and do not invite a member of the European Parliament to the committees. \nRegional sessions are of varying length, from 3 to 7 or 8 days, and in essence imitate international sessions. They have, however, a more constrained budget and tend to be less formal than international sessions. \nFor both national and regional sessions, resolutions are not sent on to the European Parliament.\n\nAs of Autumn 2018, 89 (taking into account the Extraordinary International Session of EYP in Lillehammer, Norway, Winter 2010) international EYP sessions have taken place:\n\nFuture sessions will include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1536938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1536938", "title": "Frontage", "text": "Frontage\n\nFrontage is the boundary between a plot of land or a building and the road onto which the plot or building fronts. Frontage may also refer to the full length of this boundary. This length is considered especially important for certain types of commercial and retail real estate, in applying zoning bylaws and property tax. In the case of contiguous buildings individual frontages are usually measured to the middle of any party wall. \n\nIn some parts of the United States, particularly New England, a frontage road is one which runs parallel to a major road or highway, and is intended primarily for local access to and egress from those properties which line it.\n\nA \"river frontage\" or \"ocean frontage\" is the length of a plot of land that faces directly onto a river or ocean respectively. The amount of such frontage may affect the value of the plot.\n\n"}
{"id": "47490092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47490092", "title": "Galleanists", "text": "Galleanists\n\nGalleanists, or Galleanisti, was a group of Propaganda of the deed anarchists of working-class militants spread across Italian immigrant communities of the U.S. throughout the late nineteenth and early twentieth century.Their activity crystallized around the works of Italian anarchist Luigi Galleani and his paper, Cronaca Sovversiva (The Subversive Chronicle). The group was responsible for many terrorist attacks across U.S, with their most famous being the 1920 attack on Wall Street, one of the deadliest terrorist attacks in the U.S history.\n"}
{"id": "368329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368329", "title": "Georgism", "text": "Georgism\n\nGeorgism, also called geoism and single tax (archaic), is an economic philosophy holding that, while people should own the value they produce themselves, economic value derived from land (often including natural resources and natural opportunities) should belong equally to all members of society. Developed from the writings of the economist and social reformer Henry George, the Georgist paradigm seeks solutions to social and ecological problems, based on principles of land rights and public finance which attempt to integrate economic efficiency with social justice.\n\nGeorgism is concerned with the distribution of economic rent caused by natural monopolies, pollution, and the control of commons, including title of ownership for natural resources and other contrived privileges (e.g., intellectual property). Any natural resource which is inherently limited in supply can generate economic rent, but the classical and most significant example of 'land monopoly' involves the extraction of common ground rent from valuable urban locations. Georgists argue that taxing economic rent is efficient, fair, and equitable. The main Georgist policy recommendation is a tax assessed on land value. Georgists argue that revenues from a land value tax (LVT) can be used to reduce or eliminate existing taxes (for example, on income, trade, or purchases) that are unfair and inefficient. Some Georgists also advocate for the return of surplus public revenue back to the people by means of a basic income or citizen's dividend.\n\nEconomists since Adam Smith and David Ricardo have observed that, unlike other taxes, a public levy on land value does not cause economic inefficiency. A land value tax also has progressive tax effects, in that it is paid primarily by the wealthy (the landowners), and it cannot be passed on to tenants, workers, or users of land. Advocates of land value taxes argue that it would reduce economic inequality, increase economic efficiency, remove incentives to under-utilize urban land, and reduce property speculation. The philosophical basis of Georgism dates back to several early thinkers such as John Locke, Baruch Spinoza, and Thomas Paine, but the concept of gaining public revenues mainly from land and natural resource privileges was widely popularized by Henry George and his first book, \"Progress and Poverty\" (1879).\n\nGeorgist ideas were popular and influential during the late 19th and early 20th century. Political parties, institutions and communities were founded based on Georgist principles during that time. Early devotees of Henry George's economic philosophy were often termed \"Single Taxers\" for their political goal of raising public revenue mainly from a land value tax, although Georgists endorsed multiple forms of rent capture (e.g., seigniorage) as legitimate. The term \"Georgism\" was invented later, and some prefer the term \"geoism\" to distinguish their beliefs from those of Henry George.\n\nHenry George is best known for popularizing the argument that government should be funded by a tax on land rent rather than taxes on labor. George believed that although scientific experiments could not be performed in political economy, theories could be tested by comparing different societies with different conditions and by thought experiments about the effects of various factors. Applying this method, he concluded that many of the problems that beset society, such as poverty, inequality, and economic booms and busts, could be attributed to the private ownership of the necessary resource, land. In his most celebrated book, \"Progress and Poverty\", George argues that the appropriation of land for private use contributes to persistent poverty in spite of technological progress, and causes economies to exhibit a tendency toward boom and bust cycles. According to George, people justly own what they create, but that natural opportunities and land belong equally to all.\nGeorge believed there was an important distinction between common and collective property. Although equal rights to land might be achieved by nationalizing land and then leasing it to private users, George preferred taxing unimproved land value and leaving the control of land mostly in private hands. George's reasoning for leaving land in private control and slowly shifting to land value tax was that it would not penalize existing owners who had improved land and would also be less disruptive and controversial in a country where land titles have already been granted.\n\nGeorgists have observed that privately created wealth is socialized via the tax system (e.g., through income and sales tax), while socially created wealth in land values are privatized in the price of land titles and bank mortgages. The opposite would be the case if land rents replaced taxes on labor as the main source of public revenue; socially created wealth would become available for use by the community, while the fruits of labor would remain private. According to Georgists, a land value tax can be considered a user fee instead of a tax, since it is related to the market value of socially created locational advantage, the privilege to exclude others from locations. Assets consisting of commodified privilege can be considered as wealth since they have exchange value, similar to taxi medallions. A land value tax, charging fees for exclusive use of land, as a means of raising public revenue is also a progressive tax tending to reduce economic inequality, since it applies entirely to ownership of valuable land, which is correlated with income, and there is generally no means by which landlords can shift the tax burden onto tenants or laborers.\n\nStandard economic theory suggests that a land value tax would be extremely efficient – unlike other taxes, it does not reduce economic productivity. Milton Friedman described Henry George's tax on unimproved value of land as the \"least bad tax\", since unlike other taxes, it would not impose an excess burden on economic activity (leading to zero or even negative \"deadweight loss\"); hence, a replacement of other more distortionary taxes with a land value tax would improve economic welfare. As land value tax can improve the use of land and redirect investment toward productive, non-rentseeking activities, it could even have a negative deadweight loss that boosts productivity. Because land value tax would apply to foreign land speculators, the Australian Treasury estimated that land value tax was unique in having a negative marginal excess burden, meaning that it would increase long-run living standards.\n\nIt was Adam Smith who first noted the efficiency and distributional properties of a land value tax in his book, \"The Wealth of Nations\":\nBenjamin Franklin and Winston Churchill made similar distributional and efficient arguments for taxing land rents. They noted that the costs of taxes and the benefits of public spending always eventually apply to and enrich, respectively, the owners of land. Therefore, they believed it would be best to defray public costs and recapture value of public spending by applying public charges directly to owners of land titles, rather than harming public welfare with taxes assessed against beneficial activities such as trade and labor.\n\nHenry George wrote that his plan for a high land value tax would cause people \"to contribute to the public, not in proportion to what they produce ... but in proportion to the value of natural [common] opportunities that they hold [monopolize]\". He went on to explain that \"by taking for public use that value which attaches to land by reason of the growth and improvement of the community\", it would, \"make the holding of land unprofitable to the mere owner, and profitable only to the user\".\n\nA high land value tax would discourage speculators from holding valuable natural opportunities (like urban real estate) unused or only partially used. Henry George claimed this would have many benefits, including the reduction or elimination of tax burdens from poorer neighborhoods and agricultural districts; the elimination of a multiplicity of taxes and expensive obsolete government institutions; the elimination of corruption, fraud, and evasion with respect to the collection of taxes; the enablement of true free trade; the destruction of monopolies; the elevation of wages to the full value of labor; the transformation of labor saving inventions into blessings for all; and the equitable distribution of comfort, leisure, and other advantages that are made possible by an advancing civilization. In this way, the vulnerability that market economies have to credit bubbles and property manias would be reduced.\n\nIncome flow resulting from payments for restricted access to natural opportunities or for contrived privileges over geographic regions is termed economic rent. Georgists argue that economic rent of land, legal privileges, and natural monopolies should accrue to the community, rather than private owners. In economics, \"land\" is everything that exists in nature independent of human activity. George explicitly included climate, soil, waterways, mineral deposits, laws/forces of nature, public ways, forests, oceans, air, and solar energy in the category of land. While the philosophy of Georgism does not say anything definitive about specific policy interventions needed to address problems posed by various sources of economic rent, the common goal among modern Georgists is to capture and share (or reduce) rent from all sources of natural monopoly and legal privilege.\n\nHenry George shared the goal of modern Georgists to socialize or dismantle rent from all forms of land monopoly and legal privilege. However, George emphasized mainly his preferred policy known as land value tax, which targeted a particular form of unearned income known as ground rent. George emphasized ground-rent because basic locations were more valuable than other monopolies and everybody needed locations to survive, which he contrasted with the less significant streetcar and telegraph monopolies, which George also criticized. George likened the problem to a laborer traveling home who is waylaid by a series of highway robbers along the way, each who demand a small portion of the traveler's wages, and finally at the very end of the road waits a robber who demands all that the traveler has left. George reasoned that it made little difference to challenge the series of small robbers when the final robber remained to demand all that the common laborer had left. George predicted that over time technological advancements would increase the frequency and importance of lesser monopolies, yet he expected that ground rent would remain dominant. George even predicted that ground-rents would rise faster than wages and income to capital, a prediction that modern analysis has shown to be plausible, since the supply of land is fixed.\n\nCommon ground rent is still the primary emphasis of Georgists because of its large value and the known diseconomies of misused land. However, there are other sources of rent that are theoretically analogous to ground-rent and are debated topics of Georgists. The following are some sources of economic rent.\n\nWhere free competition is impossible, such as telegraphs, water, gas, and transportation, George wrote, \"[S]uch business becomes a proper social function, which should be controlled and managed by and for the whole people concerned.\" Georgists were divided by this question of natural monopolies and often favored public ownership only of the rents from common rights-of-way, rather than public ownership of utility companies themselves.\n\nThe early conservationism of the Progressive Era was inspired partly by Henry George and his influence extended for decades afterward. Some ecological economists still support the Georgist policy of land value tax as a means of freeing or rewilding unused land and conserving nature by reducing urban sprawl.\n\nPollution degrades the value of what Georgists consider to be commons. Because pollution is a negative contribution, a taking from the commons or a cost imposed on others, its value is economic rent, even when the polluter is not receiving an explicit income. Therefore, to the extent that society determines pollution to be harmful, most Georgists propose to limit pollution with taxation or quotas that capture the resulting rents for public use, restoration, or a \"citizen's dividend\".\n\nGeorgism is related to the school of ecological economics, since both propose market based restrictions for pollution. The schools are compatible in that they advocate using similar tools as part of a conservation strategy, but they emphasize different aspects. Conservation is the central issue of ecology, whereas economic rent is the central issue of geoism. Ecological economists might price pollution fines more conservatively to prevent inherently unquantifiable damage to the environment, whereas Georgists might emphasize mediation between conflicting interests and human rights. Geolibertarianism, a market oriented branch of geoism, tends to take a direct stance against what it perceives as burdensome regulation and would like to see auctioned pollution quotas or taxes replace most command and control regulation.\n\nSince ecologists are primarily concerned with conservation, they tend to emphasize less the issue of equitably distributing scarcity/pollution rents, whereas Georgists insist that unearned income not accrue to those who hold title to natural assets and pollution privilege. To the extent that geoists recognize the effect of pollution or share conservationist values, they will agree with ecological economists about the need to limit pollution, but geoists will also insist that pollution rents generated from those conservation efforts do not accrue to polluters and are instead used for public purposes or to compensate those who suffer the negative effects of pollution. Ecological economists advocate similar pollution restrictions but, emphasizing conservation first, might be willing to grant private polluters the privilege to capture pollution rents. To the extent that ecological economists share the geoist view of social justice, they would advocate auctioning pollution quotas instead of giving them away for free. This distinction can be seen in the difference between basic cap and trade and the geoist variation, cap and share, a proposal to auction temporary pollution permits, with rents going to the public, instead of giving pollution privilege away for free to existing polluters or selling perpetual permits.\n\nThe revenue can allow the reduction or elimination of taxes, greater public investment/spending, or the direct distribution of funds to citizens as a pension or basic income/citizen's dividend.\n\nIn practice, the elimination of all other taxes implies a very great land value tax, greater than any currently existing land tax. Introducing a land value tax greater than the value of existing taxes would, at an uncertain point, inevitably cause the price of all land titles to decrease. George did not believe landowners should be compensated, and described the issue as being analogous to compensation for former slave owners. Other geoists disagree on the question of compensation; some advocate complete compensation while others endorse only enough compensation required to achieve Georgist reforms. Geoists have also long differed from George as to the degree of rent capture needed. Historically, those who advocated for public rent tax only great enough to replace other taxes were known as endorsers of \"single tax limited\".\n\nMost early advocacy groups described themselves as Single Taxers, and George reluctantly accepted \"single tax\" as an accurate name for his main political goal—the repeal of all unjust or inefficient taxes, to be replaced with a land value tax (LVT).\n\nSome modern proponents are dissatisfied with the name \"Georgist\". While Henry George was well known throughout his life, he has been largely forgotten by the public and the idea of a single tax of land predates him. Some now prefer the term \"geoism\", with the meaning of \"geo\" (from Greek \"gē\" \"earth, land\", as incidentally is in Greek the first compound of the name \"George\" (whence \"Georgism\") < (Gr.) \"Geōrgios\" < \"geōrgos\" \"farmer\" or \"geōrgia\" \"agriculture, farming\" < \"gē\" + \"ergon\" \"work\") deliberately ambiguous. The terms \"Earth Sharing\", \"geonomics\", and \"geolibertarianism\" (see Libertarianism) are also used by some Georgists. These terms represent a difference of emphasis, and sometimes real differences about how land rent should be spent (citizen's dividend or just replacing other taxes); but all agree that land rent should be recovered from its private recipients.\n\nCompulsory fines and fees related to land rents are the most common Georgist policies, but some geoists prefer voluntary value capture systems that rely on methods such as non-compulsory or self-assessed location value fees, community land trusts, and purchasing land value covenants.\n\nSome geoists believe that partially compensating landowners is a politically expedient compromise necessary for achieving reform. For similar reasons, others propose capturing only future land value increases, instead of all land rent.\n\nThough Georgism has historically been considered as a radically progressive or socialist ideology, some libertarians and minarchists take the position that limited social spending should be financed using Georgist concepts of rent value capture, but that not all land rent should be captured. Today, this relatively conservative adaptation is usually considered incompatible with true geolibertarianism, which requires that excess rents be gathered and then distributed back to residents. During Henry George's time, this restrained Georgist philosophy was known as \"single tax limited\", as opposed to \"single tax unlimited\". Henry George disagreed with the limited interpretation but accepted its adherents (e.g., Thomas Shearman) as legitimate \"single-taxers\" [Georgists]. (See Milton Friedman in \"Critical reception\")\n\nGeorgist ideas heavily influenced the politics of the early 20th century. Political parties that were formed based on Georgist ideas include the United States Commonwealth Land Party, the Henry George Justice Party, the Single Tax League, and Denmark's Justice Party.\n\nIn the UK during 1909, the Liberal Government included a land tax as part of several taxes in the People's Budget intended to redistribute wealth (including a progressively graded income tax and an increase of inheritance tax). This caused a crisis which resulted indirectly in reform of the House of Lords. The budget was passed eventually—but without the land tax. In 1931, the minority Labour Government passed a land value tax as part III of the 1931 Finance act. However, this was repealed in 1934 by the National Government before it could be implemented.\n\nIn Denmark, the Georgist Justice Party has previously been represented in Folketinget. It formed part of a centre-left government 1957–60 and was also represented in the European Parliament 1978–79. The influence of Henry George has waned over time, but Georgist ideas still occasionally emerge in politics. In the United States 2004 Presidential campaign, Ralph Nader mentioned Henry George in his policy statements.\n\nEconomists still generally favor a land value tax. Milton Friedman publicly endorsed the Georgist land value tax as the \"least bad tax\". Joseph Stiglitz stated that: \"Not only was Henry George correct that a tax on land is non-distortionary, but in an equilibrium society … tax on land raises just enough revenue to finance the (optimally chosen) level of government expenditure.\" He dubbed this proposition the Henry George theorem.\n\nSeveral communities were also initiated with Georgist principles during the height of the philosophy's popularity. Two such communities that still exist are Arden, Delaware, which was founded in 1900 by Frank Stephens and Will Price, and Fairhope, Alabama, which was founded in 1894 by the auspices of the Fairhope Single Tax Corporation. Some established communities in the United States also adopted Georgist tax policies. A Georgist in Houston, Texas, Joseph Jay \"J.J.\" Pastoriza, promoted a Georgist club in that city established in 1890. Years later, in his capacity as a city alderman, he was selected to serve as Houston Tax Commissioner, and promulgated a \"Houston Plan of Taxation\" in 1912. Improvements to land and merchants' inventories were taxed at 25 percent of appraised value, unimproved land was taxed at 70 percent of appraisal, and personal property was exempt. This Georgist tax continued until 1915, when two courts struck it down as violating the Texas Constitution in 1915. This quashed efforts in several other Texas cities which took steps towards implementing the Houston Plan in 1915: Beaumont, Corpus Christi, Galveston, San Antonio, and Waco.\n\nThe German protectorate of the Kiautschou Bay concession in Jiaozhou Bay, China fully implemented Georgist policy. Its sole source of government revenue was the land value tax of six percent which it levied in its territory. The German government had previously had economic problems with its African colonies caused by land speculation. One of the main reasons for using the land value tax in Jiaozhou Bay was to eliminate such speculation, which the policy achieved. The colony existed as a German protectorate from 1898 until 1914, when seized by Japanese and British troops. In 1922 the territory was returned to China.\n\nGeorgist ideas were also adopted to some degree in Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, and Taiwan. In these countries, governments still levy some type of land value tax, albeit with exemptions. Many municipal governments of the US depend on real property tax as their main source of revenue, although such taxes are not Georgist as they generally include the value of buildings and other improvements. One exception is the town of Altoona, Pennsylvania, which for a time in the 21st century only taxed land value, phasing in the tax in 2002, relying on it entirely for tax revenue from 2011, and ending it 2017; the \"Financial Times\" noted that \"Altoona is using LVT in a city where neither land nor buildings have much value\".\n\nVarious organizations still exist that continue to promote the ideas of Henry George. According to \"The American Journal of Economics and Sociology\", the periodical \"Land&Liberty\", established in 1894, is \"the longest-lived Georgist project in history\". Founded during the Great Depression in 1932, the Henry George School of Social Science in New York offers courses, sponsors seminars, and publishes research in the Georgist paradigm. Also in the US, the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy was established in 1974 based on the writings of Henry George. It \"seeks to improve the dialogue about urban development, the built environment, and tax policy in the United States and abroad\".\n\nThe Henry George Foundation continues to promote the ideas of Henry George in the UK. The IU is an international umbrella organisation that brings together organizations worldwide that seek land value tax reform.\n\nThe economist Alfred Marshall believed that George's views in \"Progress and Poverty\" were dangerous, even predicting wars, terror, and economic destruction. Specifically, Marshall was upset about the idea of rapid change and the unfairness of not compensating existing landowners. In his lectures on \"Progress and Poverty\", Marshall opposed George's position on compensation while fully endorsing his ultimate remedy. So far as land value tax moderately replaced other taxes and did not cause the price of land to fall, Marshall supported land value taxation on economic and moral grounds, suggesting that a three or four percent tax on land values would fit this condition. After implementing land taxes, governments would purchase future land values at discounted prices and take ownership after 100 years. Marshall asserted that this plan, which he strongly supported, would end the need for a tax collection department of government. For newly formed countries where land was not already private, Marshall advocated implementing George's economic proposal immediately.\n\nKarl Marx considered the Single Tax platform as a regression from the transition to communism and referred to Georgism as \"Capitalism’s last ditch\". Marx argued that, \"The whole thing is ... simply an attempt, decked out with socialism, to save capitalist domination and indeed to establish it afresh on an even wider basis than its present one.\" Marx also criticized the way land value tax theory emphasizes the value of land, arguing that, \"His fundamental dogma is that everything would be all right if ground rent were paid to the state.\" Georgists such as Fred Harrison (2003) replied to these Marxist objections.\n\nRichard T. Ely, known as the \"Father of Land Economics\", agreed with the economic arguments for Georgism but believed that correcting the problem the way Henry George wanted (without compensation) was unjust to existing landowners. In explaining his position, Ely wrote that \"If we have all made a mistake, should one party to the transaction alone bear the cost of the common blunder?\"\n\nJohn R. Commons supported Georgist economics, but opposed what he perceived as an environmentally and politically reckless tendency for advocates to rely on a one-size-fits-all approach to tax reform, specifically, the \"single tax\" framing. Commons concluded \"The Distribution of Wealth\", with an estimate that \"perhaps 95% of the total values represented by these millionnaire [\"sic\"] fortunes is due to those investments classed as land values and natural monopolies and to competitive industries aided by such monopolies\", and that \"tax reform should seek to remove all burdens from capital and labour and impose them on monopolies\". However, he criticized Georgists for failing to see that Henry George's anti-monopoly ideas must be implemented with a variety of policy tools. He wrote, \"Trees do not grow into the sky—they would perish in a high wind; and a single truth, like a single tax, ends in its own destruction.\" Commons uses the natural soil fertility and value of forests as an example of this destruction, arguing that a tax on the in situ value of those depletable natural resources can result in overuse or over-extraction. Instead, Commons recommends an income tax based approach to forests similar to a modern Georgist severance tax.\n\nOther contemporaries such as Austrian economist Frank Fetter and neoclassical economist John Bates Clark argued that it was impractical to maintain the traditional distinction between land and capital, and used this as a basis to attack Georgism. Mark Blaug, a specialist in the history of economic thought, credits Fetter and Clark with influencing mainstream economists to abandon the idea \"that land is a unique factor of production and hence that there is any special need for a special theory of ground rent\" claiming that \"this is in fact the basis of all the attacks on Henry George by contemporary economists and certainly the fundamental reason why professional economists increasingly ignored him\".\n\nRobert Solow endorsed the theory of Georgism, but is wary of the perceived injustice of expropriation. Solow stated that taxing away expected land rents \"would have no semblance of fairness\"; however, Georgism would be good to introduce where location values were not already privatized or if the transition could be phased in slowly.\n\nMilton Friedman agreed that \"the Henry George argument\" is \"the least bad\" means of raising needed public revenue. However, Friedman viewed Georgism as partially immoral, due to a difference of opinion about the validity of vested property rights in land. Georgists agree with Friedman that land titles should remain private, however they believe that the private capture of unimproved land-rents is inherently unjust, drawing comparisons to slavery.\n\nGeorge has also been accused of exaggerating the importance of his \"all-devouring rent thesis\" in claiming that it is the primary cause of poverty and injustice in society. George argued that the rent of land increased faster than wages for labor because the supply of land is fixed. Modern economists, including Ottmar Edenhofer have demonstrated that George's assertion is plausible but was more likely to be true during George's time than now.\n\nAn early criticism of Georgism was that it would generate too much public revenue and result in unwanted growth of government, but later critics argued that it would not generate enough income to cover government spending. Joseph Schumpeter concluded his analysis of Georgism by stating that, \"It is not economically unsound, except that it involves an unwarranted optimism concerning the yield of such a tax.\" Economists who study land conclude that Schumpeter's criticism is unwarranted because the rental yield from land is likely much greater than what modern critics such as Paul Krugman suppose. Krugman agrees that land value taxation is the best means of raising public revenue but asserts that increased spending has rendered land rent insufficient to fully fund government. Georgists have responded by citing studies and analyses implying that land values of nations like the US, UK, and Australia are more than sufficient to fund all levels of government.\n\nAnarcho-capitalist political philosopher and economist Murray Rothbard criticized Georgism in \"Man, Economy, and State\" as being philosophically incongruent with subjective value theory, and further stating that land is irrelevant in the factors of production, trade, and price systems, but this critique is seen by some, including other opponents of Georgism, as relying on false assumptions and flawed reasoning.\n\nAustrian economist Friedrich Hayek credited early enthusiasm for Henry George with developing his interest in economics. Later, Hayek said that the theory of Georgism would be very strong if assessment challenges did not result in unfair outcomes, but he believed that they would.\n\nAfter studying \"Progress and Poverty\", Tyler Cowen concluded, \"George had some good economic arguments, but [. . .] was politically naive. At the margin we should move in George’s direction, but ultimately landowners have to be part of the building coalitions rather than pure victims.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42547001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42547001", "title": "Hacking Team", "text": "Hacking Team\n\nHackingTeam is a Milan-based information technology company that sells offensive intrusion and surveillance capabilities to governments, law enforcement agencies and corporations. Its \"Remote Control Systems\" enable governments and corporations to monitor the communications of internet users, decipher their encrypted files and emails, record Skype and other Voice over IP communications, and remotely activate microphones and camera on target computers. The company has been criticized for providing these capabilities to governments with poor human rights records, though HackingTeam states that they have the ability to disable their software if it is used unethically. The Italian government has restricted their license to do business with countries outside Europe.\n\nHackingTeam employs around 40 people in its Italian office, and has subsidiary branches in Annapolis, Washington, D.C., and Singapore. Its products are in use in dozens of countries across six continents.\n\nHackingTeam was started by two Italian programmers: Alberto Ornaghi and Marco Valleri. Prior to the company's formal establishment, Ornaghi and Valleri (under the aliases of ALoR, and NaGA respectively), created a set of tools that could be used to monitor and remotely manipulate target computers. The program, called Ettercap, was embraced both by hackers looking to spy on people, and by companies that hoped to test the security of their own networks.\n\nThe Milan police department learned of the tools. Hoping to use Ettercap to spy on Italian citizens and listen to their Skype calls, the police contacted Ornaghi and Valleri and asked them to help modify the program. HackingTeam was born, and became \"the first sellers of commercial hacking software to the police.\"\n\nAccording to former employee Alberto Pelliccione, the company began as security services provider, offering penetration testing, auditing and other defensive capabilities to clients. Pelliccione states that as malware and other offensive capabilities were developed and accounted for a larger percentage of revenues, the organization pivoted in a more offensive direction and became increasingly compartmentalized. Pelliccione claims fellow employees working on aspects of the same platform – for example, Android exploits and payloads – would not communicate with one another, possibly leading to tensions and strife within the organization.\n\nIn February 2014, a report from Citizen Lab identified the organisation to be using hosting services from Linode, Telecom Italia, Rackspace, NOC4Hosts and notorious bullet proof hosting company Santrex.\n\nOn July 5, 2015 the company suffered a major data breach of customer data, software code, internal documents and e-mails. \"See: § 2015 data breach\"\n\nHackingTeam enables clients to perform remote monitoring functions against citizens via their RCS (Remote Control Systems), including their Da Vinci and Galileo platforms:\n\n\nHackingTeam uses advanced techniques to avoid draining cell phone batteries, which could potentially raise suspicions, and other methods to avoid detection.\n\nThe malware has payloads for Android, BlackBerry, Apple iOS, Linux, Mac OS X, Symbian, as well as Microsoft Windows, Windows Mobile and Windows Phone class of operating systems.\n\nRCS is a management platform that allows operators to remotely deploy exploits and payloads against targeted systems, remotely manage devices once compromised, and exfiltrate data for remote analysis.\n\nHackingTeam has been criticized for selling its products and services to governments with poor human rights records, including Sudan, Bahrain, Venezuela, and Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn June 2014, a United Nations panel monitoring the implementation of sanctions on Sudan requested information from HackingTeam about their alleged sales of software to the country in contravention of United Nations weapons export bans to Sudan. Documents leaked in the 2015 data breach of HackingTeam revealed the organization sold Sudanese National Intelligence and Security Service access to their \"Remote Control System\" software in 2012 for 960,000 Euros.\n\nIn response to the United Nations panel, the company responded in January 2015 that they were not currently selling to Sudan. In a follow-up exchange, HackingTeam asserted that their product was not controlled as a weapon, and so the request was beyond the scope of the panel. There was no need for them to disclose previous sales, which they considered confidential business information.\n\nThe U.N. disagreed. \"The view of the panel is that as such software is ideally suited to support military electronic intelligence (ELINT) operations it may potentially fall under the category of 'military ... equipment' or 'assistance' related to prohibited items,\" the secretary wrote in March. \"Thus its potential use in targeting any of the belligerents in the Darfur conflict is of interest to the Panel.\"\n\nIn the fall of 2014, the Italian government abruptly froze all of HackingTeam's exports, citing human rights concerns. After lobbying Italian officials, the company temporarily won back the right to sell its products abroad.\n\nOn July 5, 2015, the Twitter account of the company was compromised by an unknown individual who published an announcement of a data breach against HackingTeam's computer systems. The initial message read, \"Since we have nothing to hide, we're publishing all our e-mails, files, and source code ...\" and provided links to over 400 gigabytes of data, including alleged internal e-mails, invoices, and source code; which were leaked via BitTorrent and Mega. An announcement of the data breach, including a link to the bittorrent seed, was retweeted by WikiLeaks and by many others through social media.\n\nThe material was voluminous and early analysis appeared to reveal that HackingTeam had invoiced the Lebanese Army and Sudan and that spy tools were also sold to Bahrain and Kazakhstan. HackingTeam had previously claimed they had never done business with Sudan.\n\nThe leaked data revealed a zero-day cross-platform Flash exploit (CVE number: CVE-2015-5119). The dump included a demo of this exploit by opening Calculator from a test webpage. Adobe patched the hole on July 8, 2015. Another vulnerability involving Adobe was revealed in the dumps, which took advantage of a buffer overflow attack on an Adobe Open Type Manager DLL included with Microsoft Windows. The DLL is run in kernel mode, so the attack could perform privilege escalation to bypass the sandbox.\n\nAlso revealed in leaked data was HackingTeam employees' use of weak passwords, including 'P4ssword', 'wolverine', and 'universo'.\n\nAfter a few hours without response from HackingTeam, member Christian Pozzi tweeted the company was working closely with police and \"what the attackers are claiming regarding our company is not true.\" He also claimed the leaked archive \"contains a virus\" and that it constituted \"false info\". Shortly after these tweets, Pozzi's Twitter account itself was apparently compromised.\n\nResponsibility for this attack was claimed by the hacker known as \"Phineas Fisher\" (or Phisher) on Twitter. Phineas has previously attacked spyware firm Gamma International, who produce malware, such as FinFisher, for governments and corporations. In 2016, Phineas published details of the attack, in Spanish and English, as a \"how-to\" for others, and explained the motivations behind the attack.\n\nThe internal documents revealed details of HackingTeam's contracts with repressive governments. In 2016, the Italian government again revoked the company's license to sell spyware outside of Europe without special permission.\n\nHackingTeam's clientele include not just governments, but also corporate clients such as Barclay's Bank and British Telecom (BT) of the United Kingdom, as well as Deutsche Bank of Germany.\n\nA full list of HackingTeam's customers were leaked in the 2015 breach. Disclosed documents show HackingTeam had 70 current customers, mostly military, police, federal and provincial governments. The total company revenues disclosed exceeded 40 million Euros.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4122252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4122252", "title": "History of pan-European liberalism", "text": "History of pan-European liberalism\n\nPan-European liberalism has been a political force since the establishment of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party in 1976.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPM meeting organised by ELDR and hosted in the official residence of PM Guy Verhofstadt.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27646874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646874", "title": "Humanity (journal)", "text": "Humanity (journal)\n\nHumanity: An International Journal of Human Rights, Humanitarianism, and Development is a peer-reviewed academic journal which focuses on human rights, humanitarianism, and development in the modern world. Contributions come from the fields of anthropology, law, literature, history, philosophy, and politics. The journal is published biannually by the University of Pennsylvania Press. It was established in 2010 and the current editor-in-chief is Samuel Moyn (Columbia University).\n\nCurrent issues of \"Humanity\" are available electronically through Project MUSE.\n"}
{"id": "24890828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24890828", "title": "International Carbon Action Partnership", "text": "International Carbon Action Partnership\n\nThe International Carbon Action Partnership (ICAP) was founded in 2007 by more than 15 government representatives as an international cooperative forum, bringing together states and sub-national jurisdictions that have implemented or are planning to implement emissions trading systems (ETS). Then governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, stated at ICAP's founding ceremony:\n\"This first of its kind partnership will provide more incentives for clean-tech investment and economic growth while not letting polluters off the hook. And it will help renew the health of our planet.\"\nJosé Sócrates, the Portuguese prime minister further added that ICAP was launched in order to join carbon markets all over the world and by that be more successful in combating climate change. ICAP includes members from the European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS), Western Climate Initiative (WCI), Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), Australia, New Zealand, Norway, and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. Japan and Ukraine are observers.Member jurisdictions share best practices and discuss ETS design elements with a view to creating a well-functioning global carbon market. The rationale behind ICAP’s work is that linking carbon cap and trade systems would lead to economic, social and environmental benefits.\n\nICAP functions as an open forum of governments and public authorities working on cap and trade systems. The main bodies of ICAP are the Plenary and the Steering Committee. The day-to-day work is supported by the ICAP Secretariat based in Berlin, Germany, under the guidance of the ICAP Co-Chairs.\n\nICAP’s work focuses on three pillars: technical dialog, ETS knowledge sharing and capacity building activities.\n\nRelevant topics addressed under ICAP’s technical dialog include for example linking ETS, allocation methods, MRV, offsets and carbon leakage. Events under this work stream bring together representatives from ICAP jurisdictions with international and local experts to share their expertise on technical issues and to discuss measures to contribute to furthering a global carbon market. \n\nICAP acts as a knowledge sharing hub, disseminating knowledge on existing and planned ETS, as well as the general benefits and design aspects of an ETS. Addressing the growing demand for reliable and detailed information on emissions trading worldwide, ICAP developed an interactive ICAP ETS Map, which offers an up-to-date overview on existing ETSs. Moreover, the ´ICAP Status Report: Emissions Trading Worldwide` provides factsheets on all existing and planned ETSs, and includes infographics to allow for an easy comparison of systems. Policymakers and carbon market experts also share their insight into key milestones in setting up and running an ETS. Additionally, ICAP also runs workshops and side events at the United Nations Climate Change Conferences. \n\nSince 2009, ICAP has also been actively engaged in capacity building for emerging and developing countries by organizing training courses for participants from emerging and developing countries on technical issues of designing and implementing carbon cap and trade systems. As of February 2015, the ICAP alumni community consisted of 317 course participants from 39 countries. \nAs of January 2017, ICAP had 31 full members and 4 observers.\n\n• Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative Members (RGGI)\n\n• Western Climate Initiative Members (WCI)\n\n• Other North American Jurisdictions \n\nICAP's annual report, 'Emissions Trading Worldwide: Status Report', highlights the spread of emissions trading worldwide. With 17 systems operating in jurisdictions that vary largely in their geographical scope, economic profile and energy mix, the report showcases the diversity and flexibility of emissions trading.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3057019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3057019", "title": "Island of Ireland Peace Park", "text": "Island of Ireland Peace Park\n\nThe Island of Ireland Peace Park and its surrounding park (), also called the Irish Peace Park or Irish Peace Tower in Messines, near Ypres in Flanders, Belgium, is a war memorial to the soldiers of the island of Ireland who died, were wounded or are missing from World War I, during Ireland's involvement in the conflict. The tower memorial is close to the site of the June 1917 battle of Messines Ridge, during which the 16th (Irish) Division fought alongside the 36th (Ulster) Division.\n\nBecause of the events of the Easter Rebellion in 1916 and the partition of Ireland under the Anglo-Irish Treaty in 1922 and the Irish Civil War that followed it, little was done in the Republic of Ireland to commemorate the Irish dead from the Great War or World War II. Those countries who were engaged in the Great War all preserve the memory of their fallen soldiers with national monuments in the Western Front area. This led to some ill-feeling in the already crowded emotions of the conflict on the island, and perhaps was highlighted when Northern Ireland's community's Ulster Tower Thiepval in France was one of the first memorials erected.\n\nThis Tower memorial, however, serves not to \"redress the balance\" but rather to recall the sacrifices of those from the island of Ireland from all political and religious traditions who fought and died in the war. It also serves as a symbol of modern-day reconciliation. The Tower houses bronze cubicles containing record books listing the known dead, which are publicly accessible copies of the originals belonging to the National War Memorial, Islandbridge, Dublin.\n\nThe project was initiated by a member of the Irish Parliament (Dail Eireann), Paddy Harte TD, who, together with a community activist, Glen Barr from Northern Ireland, established 'A Journey of Reconciliation Trust'. The Trust was a broad-based, cross-border, organisation with offices in Dublin. The Trust was made up of representatives of the main churches in Ireland and professional political and representatives and community leaders from both parts of Ireland under the leadership of Paddy Harte and Glenn Barr.\n\nThe Irish government became involved in part funding the project together wit the Northern Ireland Office. Statutory and private bodies rolled in behind the project and within two years of the initiation of the JRT the Island of Ireland Peace Park and Celtic Round tower was complete. It was formally opened by the Irish President Mary McAleese who in the presence of Queen Elizabeth and King Albert of Belgium led the wreath laying ceremony in the afternoon of 11th of November 1998. It was the first time an Irish State officially acknowledged the soldiers from Ireland who died in WW!. This was also a seminal moment in Irish history when an Irish Head of State and a British Monarch met publicly in a joint ceremony. The Park is maintained by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission on behalf of the Office of Public Works in Ireland. Prior to the Island of Ireland Peace Park, no Irish government dignitary had ever attended any WW1 Remembrance Service either in Ireland or at the Menin Gate. At an official ceremony on 11th November 1998 the Irish President apologised on behalf of the Republic of Ireland to the families of the fallen for what she called the 'national amnesia' in remembering the soldiers of WW1 from the Island of Ireland.\n\nThe tower is in the traditional design of an Irish round tower and is partially built with stone from a former British Army barracks in Tipperary, the remainder of the stone from a work-house outside Mullingar, County Westmeath.\n\nThe design has a unique aspect that allows the sun to light the interior only on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month, the anniversary of the armistice that ended the war and the time for the minute's silence on Remembrance Day.\n\nA commemorative ceremony is held yearly in the park on Armistice Day in conjunction with similar ceremonies at the nearby multi-national Menin Gate Memorial in Ypres.\n\nThe tower was unveiled in the afternoon on 11 November 1998 by President Mary McAleese of Ireland, Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom and King Albert II of Belgium.\n\nIn her speech, President McAleese said:\n\nSpeaking at the Park on the anniversary of the Battle of Messines Ridge on 7 June 2004, the Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs Dermot Ahern commented that honouring the spirit of the Irish killed in the First World War can teach how to advance the Northern Ireland peace process in Northern Ireland. adding:\n\nA bronze tablet on a granite pillar positioned in the centre circle of the park bears the following inscription, entitled:Peace Pledge \n\n\nThe completion of the Peace Park ultimately led to the development and construction of the Messines Peace Village, an international rural hostel equipped for seminars and meetings, ideal for associations, companies, youth and school groups.\n\nThe first stone was placed on 7 June 2005 by Taoiseach na hÉireann (Prime Minister of Ireland) Bertie Ahern in the presence of the Mayor of Messines, Sandy Evrard and the Flemish Minister of Administrative Affairs, Foreign Policy, Media and Tourism, Geert Bourgeois.\n\nOnly one year later, the Peace Village was officially opened. The inauguration took place on 7 June 2006 by the Irish Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dermot Ahern, the British Minister for Northern Ireland, David Hanson, the Flemish Minister of Administrative Affairs, Foreign Policy, Media and Tourism, Geert Bourgeois and Sandy Evrard, the Mayor of Messines.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52287870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52287870", "title": "Job title inflation", "text": "Job title inflation\n\nJob title inflation is the increasing number and size of grandiose job titles in corporations and organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49650853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49650853", "title": "Kotleba – People's Party Our Slovakia", "text": "Kotleba – People's Party Our Slovakia\n\nThe People's Party – Our Slovakia (, ĽSNS), since November 2015 officially known as Kotleba – People's Party Our Slovakia (), is a far-right national populist neo-Nazi political party in Slovakia. The party declares that it builds on the legacy of Jozef Tiso.\n\nThe party's platform includes anti-Roma rhetoric, immigration control, Christian morality, paternalism on economic issues, interest-free national loans, replacement of the euro currency with the Slovak koruna, law and order, rejection of the idea of same-sex civil unions, and criticism of the country's current leadership and foreign policy. The party proposes to reduce the number of parliamentarians from 150 to 100 members, to widen freedom of speech, to establish a home guard, and to withdraw the Slovak military from missions abroad. Moreover, it wants Slovakia to leave the European Union, European Monetary Union and NATO.\n\nThe origins of the party are closely related to the nationalist Slovak Togetherness. The members of the movement tried to run in the 2006 elections under the name \"Slovak Togetherness – National Party\", but the party was dissolved by the Supreme Court on grounds of anti-constitutional activities. Instead of founding a whole new party, members of Slovak Togetherness under the leadership of Marian Kotleba entered the tiny \"Party of Friends of Wine\" that had existed since 2000, changed its name to \"People's Party of Social Solidarity\" in May 2009 and then to \"People’s Party – Our Slovakia\" in early 2010. This was done to avoid legal difficulties with registering a new party under this name given that a different party called \"Our Slovakia\" already existed.\n\nDuring the elections of 2016, the party nominated several candidates seen as controversial, such as an ex-singer of neo-Nazi music bands Krátky proces and Juden Mord and a candidate who openly admired Adolf Hitler and promoted Hlinka's historical Slovak People's Party.\n\nThe party is perceived by liberal politicians and part of the populace as being fascist. This is due to some members of the party being connected to extremist movements such as the Slovak Brotherhood in Kotleba's case or the fact the party and its members requested a minute of silence for Jozef Tiso, who supported and actively put laws in place during the Second World War that discriminated against Jews and made the country pay Nazi Germany to transfer Slovak Jews into concentration camps. Under Jozef Tiso regime Slovakia attacked Poland in 1939. Kotleba and his party was also described by both the Slovak President Andrej Kiska and Czech President Miloš Zeman as fascist. The party denies any connection to fascism.\n\nIn May 2017, the General Prosecutors Office of the Slovak Republic made a submission to the Supreme Court, requesting a dissolution of the party. The General Prosecutors Office reasoned this step by alleged pro-fascist tendencies of the party, violation of the constitution of the Slovak Republic and violation of Slovak and international laws.\n\nOn 29 March 2018 during the party congress meeting, a new logo was propossed, replacing the old one that had straight winged Slovak double cross without national mountains inspired and used by Hlinka's Slovak People's Party and Hlinka Guard during the First Slovak Republic, with the new one that has classic Slovak double cross with national mountains in it. Party said that they changed the logo to distance themselves from fascism, nazism, or any form of extremism.\n\nKotleba – People's Party Our Slovakia wants a \"functioning state\" that is free from corruption, foreign influences and \"larceny of public finance\". It seeks to give the general public the power to abjure and renounce any member of the parliament and it wishes to decrease the total number of seats from 150 to 100. Additionally it wants to introduce a flat tax rate of 15% and stop the financing of campaigns for political parties from the state budget. The party sees the EU and NATO as undermining the sovereignty of the Slovak nation and wants to leave these organizations to give Slovakia full sovereignty and not be part of \"American war crimes and a toy in hands to foreign superpowers\". ĽSNS also advocates the investigation of foreign NGOs for possible unlawful or corrupting activity and to \"liberate Slovakia from the slavery of foreign bankers\".\n\nFor internal security, the party wants to establish a home guard that can protect the people where the normal police forces are not adequate at stopping \"Gypsy extremists\" who \"steal, rape and murder\" the \"Honest people\" while also advocating the use of weapons for protection of personal life and private property. It also wants to make politicians responsible for any criminal or corrupt activity they partake in while being a public servant and to be punished accordingly. ĽSNS wants to make police forces train in illegal settlements inhabited by the resident Romani populace and demolish any illegal constructions whether they are \"Black Settlements or Palaces of The rich\". The party wants to re-establish border control on each of the country's borders and give the parliament the ability to use the army to enforce these borders if necessary. Due to the country's armed forces being small and ill-prepared, it is seen as necessary to modernize, renew, and increase the size of the army to be able to protect the nation effectively from any threats when it leaves NATO, to prevent the \"hordes of Muslim immigrants\" from coming to Slovakia and to protect Christianity and European culture.\n\nThe party wants to give jobs to the long-term unemployed. These jobs consist of the maintenance of roads, schools, national memorials, hospitals and construction of housing as part of their social policy. The retirement age would be set to 60 years of age and the government would increase financial benefits for mothers with children; with rent-able housing being provided to \"polite and proper families\" and the cancellation of benefits to \"non-working gypsy thieves\". The party wants to nationalize the health care system to provide free healthcare for the citizens as written in the constitution of Slovakia and create one nationwide health insurance firm. Additionally, the party wants to return to one statewide emergency service and to make sure that every ambulance has a doctor on board to administer appropriate care. Furthermore, the party wants to rear children with traditional and Christian values, to protect them from violent media and to stop the service of gambling machines while supporting domestic media producers and artists to prevent a \"degenerate society\" made by \"consumerism and empty liberalism\".\n\nIn terms of the economy, the party wants to also nationalize all strategic industries such as power stations, steel manufacturing or public transport. The party wants to create energy self-sufficiency and food self-sufficiency to make the country less dependent on imports by rebuilding the agricultural industry. The party wants to get rid of bureaucracy in business to increase growth of domestic companies and it rejects the TTIP agreement. In addition the party wants to exit the European Monetary Union and re-establish the previous currency (Slovak koruna) to give the state and the central bank authority to decide on the monetary policy. Moreover, the party also wants to protect the environment from pollution and exploitation by implementing laws and regulation and support alternative energy.\n\nThe party sees and describes the unintegrated groups of Romani people as being a drain on the social security system due to large Roma families receiving a higher amount of benefits for children compared to ethnic Slovaks, this especially applies to illegal roma settlements, where these \"gypsy extremists\", as the party calls them, often live. Occasionally the party has said that it wants to stop \"Gypsy terror\" and uses the Krásna Hôrka Castle fire of 2012 as an example, whilst using rhetoric that describes the \"gypsy extremists\" as a social \"parasites\" and \"extremists\" that \"steal, rape and murder\".\n\nAccording to the party, immigrants from third world countries are invaders who are supported by globalists to destroy the old continent of Europe. The party is against any acceptance of even a single refugee, stating that even one is too much, while blaming EU and Schengen for migrant invasion.\n\nMarian Kotleba while being just a governor of the Banská Bystrica region, wrote a letter on 31 January 2014 personally to Viktor Yanukovych during the unrest in Ukraine, saying to him \"As a fellow Slav not to surrender his country to EU interests, markets and NATO aggression, to stay vigilant against foreign coup, and to remember what happened to Serbian national heroes such as Slobodan Milošević.\"\n\nOn 29 August 2014, Marian Kotleba hung up a sign saying \"Yankees go home! STOP NATO!\" on the governor's building in Banská Bystrica.\n\nOn 5 May 2016, the Kotleba party in the Banská Bystrica region hung up a Russian flag in the city of Banská Bystrica to show sympathy with the Russian community in the city and the motorcycle club the Night Wolves, which came to commemorate the Russian victory over fascism. The party also sent 3 people, including 1 MP, to commemorate together at the SNP monument and museum, however party leader Marian Kotleba denounced Allied champaign in Slovak National Uprising and indirectly endorsed Axis WWII Slovak Republic.\n\nSome media such as Pluska or Denník N accused the party of being financed by Russian bank through Austrian-Wien bank to the Slovak bank, Polish Internal Security Agency (ABW) was first to come with this evidence after the arrest of Mateusz Piskorski. The party denied all of these claims, describing the party's program to be neutral between the United States and Russia, but harshly denying any aggression against Russia or its government, accusing the US of being the main sponsor of terrorism across the world and NATO of being an actual aggressor against Russia. This is one of the reasons for which the party wants Slovakia to leave NATO.\n\nOn 2 February 2017, Marian Kotleba and his party spoke against sending 152 Slovak soldiers contingent on NATO training mission in Latvia near Russian border, stating that it was a clear provocation of the Russian Federation by the NATO pact. During voting time about this issue in Slovak parliament, only his party and Sme Rodina voted against sending troops on this NATO mission, all other parties supported it. He also accused the government and opposition of acting like Nazis and Hitler in 1941 when he was preparing to attack Soviet Union, before Operation Barbarossa.\n\nOn 2 June 2017, Party was accused of being financed by Alexander Usovskij from Belarus, after his emails were leaked to the public and German ZDF television reported about this. It is said that he was supplying money from Russian Federation to Eastern European countries, including Slovakia, to fuel pro-Russian activities, even mentioning that Usovskij is supporting ĽSNS work. Usovskij denied to be in contact with ĽSNS, but said that he sympathises with party activities, agreeing with their bid for a referendum to leave NATO. ZDF also added that he may had been looking for investors for this referendum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56575572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56575572", "title": "Krishi Vigyan Kendra", "text": "Krishi Vigyan Kendra\n\nA Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) is an agricultural extension center in India. The name means \"farm science center\". Usually associated with a local agricultural university, these centers serve as the ultimate link between the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and farmers, and aim to apply agricultural research in a practical, localized setting. All KVKs fall under the jurisdiction of one of the 11 Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) throughout India.\n\nAs of October 2018, the number of KVKs in India is somewhat disputed. While one source cites 700 KVKs, another lists 695, and another lists 676.\n\nThe first KVK was established in 1974 in Pondicherry. Since then, KVKs have been established in all states, and the number continues to grow. The Indian agricultural landscape faces many challenges, including a high percentage of smallholder farmers, lack of supply chain infrastructure, and extreme weather conditions. For a full description of these challenges, see Agriculture in India. A key strategy in addressing these issues, in addition to policy support and a functioning market, is using technology to better understand and adapt to complex challenges. However, higher-level research about modern agricultural trends, such as Climate Change and GMO, takes place in universities. The practical implications of this research, or their relevance to a certain local context, are not readily apparent. For example, academic research on new crop practices or seed types often takes place in centralized testing locations, due to the ease of monitoring and evaluation. The same goes for ground-level innovations which are effective in one local context but may not be extensible to others. Especially in areas with such geographic complexity as India, agricultural extension departments such as KVKs serve to gather, test and disseminate knowledge between centralized institutions and a geographically-dispersed rural population.\n\nIn this mandate, the effectiveness of KVKs is difficult to measure, due to large number of farmers served by a single KVK and largely off-line communication between the KVK and farmers. For this reason, research over the past 20 years has focused on the capacity of KVKs to make use of ICT for the purpose of better managing their communications with farmers. An plethora of applications have been developed, sharing advisories such as weather information and market pricing, supplementing the KVK's communication with its beneficiaries. However, many of these initiatives are short-lasted, or have limited impact, since the teams at each KVK often do not have the capacity to maintain software applications or because farmers do not find the information useful.\n\nWhile KVKs are expected to undertake their own projects, they are also expected to serve as a resource center for extending government initiatives to local areas. The current national government's program \"Doubling Farmers' Income by 2022\" calls for increases in agricultural productivity, development initiatives such as Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana as well as more focus on technological innovation. The government expects KVKs to aid in the dissemination of information and practices regarding these new government initiatives. In addition to KVKs, there are many local institutions which also interface directly with farmers, such as the Agricultural produce market committee and the Agricultural Engineering Department. As of October 2018, there is an online dashboard which provides updates on the activity of various KVKs. \n\nA KVK can be formed under a variety of host institutions, including agricultural universities, state departments, ICAR institutes, other educational instiutions, or NGOs. The 700 KVKs in operation per the ICAR website are split into: 458 under State Agricultural Universities, 18 under Central Agricultural Universities, 64 under ICAR institutes, 105 under NGOs, 39 under state departments or other public sector undertakings, and 16 under other miscellaneous educational institutions. A KVK must own about 20 hectare of land for the purpose of testing new agricultural technologies.\n\nOn-Farm Testing: Each KVK operates a small farm to test new technologies, such as seed varieties or innovative farming methods, developed by ICAR institutes. This allows new technologies to be tested at the local level before being transferred to farmers.\n\nFront-line Demonstration: Due to the KVK's farm and its proximity to nearby villages, it organizes programs to show the efficacy of new technologies on farmer fields.\n\nCapacity Building: In addition to demonstrating new technologies, the KVK also hosts capacity building exercises and workshops to discuss modern farming techniques with groups of farmers.\n\nMulti-sector Support: Offer support to various private and public initiatives through its local network and expertise. It is very common for government research institutes to leverage the network of KVKs when performing surveys with a wide range of farmers.\n\nAdvisory Services: Due to the growing use of ICT, KVKs have implemented technologies to provide farmers information, such as weather advisories or market pricing, through radio and mobile phones.\n\nIn each of these activities, the KVK focuses on crops and methods specific to the local climate and industry. Some factors which may impact this decision are: soil type, crops grown, water availability, seasonal temperatures, and allied sectors such as dairy and aquaculture. In addition to addressing local factors, KVKs are also mandated to increase adoption of practices that align with renumerative agriculture, climate smart agriculture, and dietary diversification. Some KVKs also host social activities to facilitate rapport between the institutions and the local community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38935898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38935898", "title": "List of capitals in Thailand", "text": "List of capitals in Thailand\n\nThis article includes a list of capitals and largest cities of provinces of Thailand. National capital city of Thailand is Bangkok.\n\n"}
{"id": "15325892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15325892", "title": "Lowell Lo", "text": "Lowell Lo\n\nLowell Lo Kwun Ting (, born 12 October 1950) is a Hong Kong musician, singer, songwriter and actor. He wrote the film scores to many Hong Kong films. He is now also an environmental activist.\n\nLowell Lo Kwun Ting was born on 12 October 1950 in Hong Kong. Both his parents are Opera singers. At the age of 16, he and his family moved to Seattle in the United States. There, he was a family friend of Bruce Lee. In 1977, he returned to Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "21613214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21613214", "title": "Lucy Randolph Mason", "text": "Lucy Randolph Mason\n\nLucy Randolph Mason (26 July 1882– 6 May1959) was a 20th-century American labor activist and suffragette. She was involved in the union movement, the consumer movement and the civil rights movement in the mid-20th century.\n\nLucy Randolph Mason was born on the Clarens estate in Virginia near Alexandria July 26, 1882 and grew up near Richmond. Mason was one of five children born to Episcopal minister Landon Mason and his wife Lucy Ambler Mason. She was a fifth-generation descendant of George Mason, author of the Virginia Declaration of Rights which was the model for the Bill of Rights. Mason was also related to John Marshall and Robert E. Lee (her father's second cousin).\n\nGrowing up in the Episcopal church with a clergyman father and devoted mother developed strong social convictions in Lucy and her siblings. After high school, Mason taught herself stenography while teaching Sunday school classes. It was during this time that she began to be interested in women's rights, specifically voting rights, working towards improving conditions for working people and ending racial injustice, specifically in the South. \nDuring her 20s while supporting herself as a stenographer, she devoted her free time to volunteer social service work and the suffragette movement. In 1914 the Richmond YWCA offered her a job as its industrial secretary, which she stayed on as until 1918. In 1918, Mason's mother passed away and she was forced to quit in order to be able to care for her ailing father. During the years that Mason cared for her father she continued to volunteer for the Union Label League and served as president of both the Richmond Equal Suffrage League and the Richmond League of Women Voters. In 1923, Mason's father passed and she returned to the YWCA as the general secretary and remained there until 1932. During her time as general secretary she developed a range of innovative programs that were aimed at training and the economic advancement in the lives of both white and black young women and workers in general. With the YWCA Mason generated public support for state labor laws that ensure safe workplaces, end child labor, raise minimum wages, and shorten work hours. Mason also traveled throughout the South during this time promoting voluntary employment agreements that incorporated fair labor standards. To aid this effort she wrote a pamphlet \"Standards for Workers in Southern Industry\" (1931), which was the first pamphlet of its kind. \n\nShe belonged to the Union Label League in Richmond and was a frequent speaker to community and labor groups about the importance of buying union made products and services. During World War I, American Federation of Labor (AFL) President, Samuel Gompers, appointed Mason as the Virginia chairwoman of the Women in Industry Committee, a division of the wartime National Advisory Committee on Labor.\n\nShe was so successful in her ventures during this time that she drew the interest of other female reformers, Florence Kelly and First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt. Mason made such an impression that Kelly chose her as successor for her role as secretary of the National Consumers League (NCL). In 1932 she was appointed as General Secretary to the NCL, and moved to New York, where she lived for five years; working closely with social workers and recruiting staff for relief and welfare agencies created under the New Deal. It was during this period she met and impressed Eleanor Roosevelt, with whom she was friends with for the rest of their lives.\n\nFrom the 1900s to the 1930s, the NCL worked to pass protective labor laws and to convince consumers to buy only goods and services produced by workers who enjoyed a living wage and decent working conditions. Under Mason, the NCL won the passage of new state labor laws, lobbied for improved labor codes in the 1933 National Industrial Recovery Act and helped ensure the passage of the 1938 Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).\n\nIn 1937, during congressional hearings on the FLSA, Mason met Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) President, John L. Lewis, who helped arrange a job for her as the CIO's public relations representative for the South. In July 1937, at age 55, Mason moved to Atlanta and started working at the Textile Workers Organizing Committee offices and became the CIO's \"roving ambassador\" for the next 16 years.\n\nFor Mason, the CIO was \"a training ground for citizenship\" for Southern workers, a vehicle \"to bring democracy to the South\" and the means to alleviate the economic and racial injustices experienced by minorities and the poor. Mason traveled alone to small towns where union organizers and their sympathizers had been shot, beaten, threatened and jailed. She cornered hostile sheriffs, judges, newspaper editors, politicians and ministers, explaining workers' rights to organize and bargain under the new federal statutes and promoting an understanding of the need for unions.\n\nShe was known by friend and foe as \"Miss Lucy\". Her social status as a Southern lady and the daughter of an old, respected Virginia family often gained her access to political and community leaders when others were denied. You can't get much kosher than that in Virginia, but she kind of had an interest in working people that most people of that kind of background don't have...Boy, she was a power. We would all yell for Lucy anytime that we needed help and she would come into the toughest situations and was great. She played a tremendous role, a tremendous role. - Myles HortonMiss Lucy's success also rested on her blunt speech, her calm yet steely demeanor and her ability to bring civil liberties violations to the attention of federal officials, including President Franklin D. Roosevelt. For example, Mason convinced Roosevelt to send a special federal investigator to Memphis in 1940 in the wake of physical attacks on the United Rubber Workers' organizers who were trying to create an interracial union.\n\nAfter 1944, Mason worked with the CIO Political Action Committee (\"CIO-PAC\") in the South, helping to register union members, black and white, and working for the elimination of the poll tax. She also forged lasting links between labor and religious groups. She helped get the Southern Baptist Convention to adopt a resolution in 1938 recognizing \"the right of labor to organize and engage in collective bargaining to the end that labor may have a fair and living wage, such as will provide not only the necessities of life, but for recreation, pleasure, and culture.\"\n\nIn the 1940s, she organized interfaith, multi-union and interracial groups in Atlanta and other Southern cities of workers dedicated to building bridges between organized labor and the churches. Eventually, these local groups formed the National Religion and Labor Foundation. Mason was dedicated to ending white supremacy in the South, where she was a founding member of the Southern Conference for Human Welfare and she was a frequent speaker at interracial gatherings.\n\nIn 1952, Lucy Randolph Mason's autobiography was published called \"To Win These RIghts,\" which contained an introduction written but her close friend, Eleanor Roosevelt. Then, in 1953, Mason retired from the CIO due to declining health. \n\nIn 1953, due to ill health, Mason retired from active union work. Then, in 1959, she passed away in a nursing home in Atlanta. \n\n\n\"The Shorter Day and Women Workers\" - 1922\n\n\"Standards For Workers in Southern Industry\" - 1931\n\n\"Work, Wages, and Security\" - 1933\n\n\"The Industrial South\" - 1936\n\n\"To Win These Rights: a personal story of the CIO in the South -\" 1952. \n\n"}
{"id": "29293797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29293797", "title": "Market transformation", "text": "Market transformation\n\nMarket transformation describes both a policy objective and a program strategy to promote the value and self-sustaining presence of energy-efficient technologies in the marketplace. It is a strategic process of market intervention which aims to alter market behavior by removing identified barriers and leveraging opportunities to further the internalization of cost-effective energy efficiency as a matter of standard practice. Market transformation has rapidly become the objective of many privately and publicly supported energy efficiency programs in the United States and other countries.\n\nFirst coined in a paper presented at the ACEEE Summer Study in 1992, the term \"market transformation\" is underpinned by the classic microeconomic model of markets, which describes a downward-sloping demand curve and an upward-sloping, presumably short-run supply curve. In the energy efficiency market, however, standard price and quantity equilibria are often rendered inefficient because of structural market barriers like split incentives, asymmetric information, distorted market power, and hassle costs.\n\nWhile it recognizes and harnesses the power of market forces and players, market transformation has also been conceptualized as a holistic, market-based marketing strategy, building on the diffusion of innovations theory through a strategic framework for justifying market intervention.\n\nContrary to traditional energy efficiency strategies, which often focus on small-scale procurement and installation of efficient products, the goal of market transformation is to produce new patterns of \"business as usual\" for all actors in the marketplace.\nPrograms act on market inefficiencies by removing quantity or price constraints, or by lowering transaction and uncertainty costs. Market transformation program strategies can resemble demand side management (DSM) as well as supplier innovation interventions, but with the added goal of long-term energy savings and changing standard business practices.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "58402608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58402608", "title": "Minimum wage in Croatia", "text": "Minimum wage in Croatia\n\nMinimum wage in Croatia is regulated by the Minimum Wage Act () and is defined as the lowest gross monthly wage for a full-time worker, based on a 40-hour work week. For workers who do not work full time, minimum wage is lower, in proportion to their working hours. Additional compensation for overtime work, night work, and work on Sundays and holidays is not included in the minimum wage. Minimum wage is recalculated once a year and is effective throughout the next calendar year.\n\nAs of 1 January 2018, the minimum gross monthly wage in Croatia is 3,439 HRK (c. €460), which is equivalent to a net amount of 2,752 HRK (c. €370), or 43% of average monthly wage. In January 2018, minimum wage was received by 45,245 workers, down from c. 80,000 in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14418269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14418269", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Food (Norway)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Food (Norway)\n\nThe Royal Norwegian Ministry of Agriculture and Food () is a Norwegian ministry established on February 17, 1900, and is responsible for agriculture, forestry and food in Norway. It is since October 2013 led by Minister of Agriculture and Food Sylvi Listhaug (Progress Party). The department reports to the parliament (Stortinget).\n\nThe ministry is divided into the following sections:\n\n\nUnder the ministry there are four administrative agencies and two state-owned companies:\n\nState enterprises:\n\nLimited companies:\n\n"}
{"id": "26284551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26284551", "title": "Ministry of Health (Croatia)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Croatia)\n\nThe Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia () is the ministry in the Government of Croatia which is in charge of health care and welfare.\n\n"}
{"id": "1032221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1032221", "title": "National Nanotechnology Initiative", "text": "National Nanotechnology Initiative\n\nThe National Nanotechnology Initiative is a United States federal government program for the science, engineering, and technology research and development for nanoscale projects. “The NNI serves as the central point of communication, cooperation, and collaboration for all Federal agencies engaged in nanotechnology research, bringing together the expertise needed to advance this broad and complex field.” Initiative participants (cited below) state that its four goals are to\n\n\nMihail C. Roco proposed the initiative in a 1999 presentation to the White House in the Clinton administration.; ; ; \n\nPresident Bill Clinton advocated nanotechnology development. In a 21 January 2000 speech at the California Institute of Technology, Clinton stated that \"Some of our research goals may take twenty or more years to achieve, but that is precisely why there is an important role for the federal government.\"\n\nPresident George W. Bush further increased funding for nanotechnology. On December 3, 2003 Bush signed into law the 21st Century Nanotechnology Research and Development Act (Public Law 108-153 ), which authorizes expenditures for five of the participating agencies totaling $3.63 billion over four years.. This law is an authorization, not an appropriation, and subsequent appropriations for these five agencies have not met the goals set out in the 2003 Act. However, there are many agencies involved in the Initiative that are not covered by the Act, and requested budgets under the Initiative for all participating agencies in Fiscal Years 2006 - 2015 totaled over $1 billion each.\n\nIn February 2014, the National Nanotechnology Initiative released a Strategic Plan outlining updated goals and \"program component areas\" ,\" as required under the terms of the Act. This document supersedes the NNI Strategic Plans released in 2004 and 2007.\n\nThe NNI's budget supplement proposed by the Obama administration for Fiscal Year 2015 provides $1.5 billion in requested funding. The cumulative NNI investment since fiscal year 2001, including the 2015 request, totals almost $21 billion. Cumulative investments in nanotechnology-related environmental, health, and safety research since 2005 now total nearly $900 million. The Federal agencies with the largest investments are the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, Department of Energy, Department of Defense, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "797246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797246", "title": "National Voter Registration Act of 1993", "text": "National Voter Registration Act of 1993\n\nThe National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (NVRA) () (formerly ), also known as the Motor Voter Act, is a United States federal law signed into law by President Bill Clinton on May 20, 1993, and which came into effect on January 1, 1995. The law was enacted under the Elections Clause of the United States Constitution. The law advances voting rights in the United States by requiring state governments to offer voter registration opportunities to any eligible person who applies for or renews a driver license or applies for public assistance along with requiring the United States Postal Service to mail election materials of a state as if the state is a nonprofit. The law requires states to register applicants that use a federal voter registration form to apply and prohibits states from removing registered voters from the voter rolls unless certain criteria are met.\n\nThe Act exempts from its requirements the states that have continuously, since March 11, 1993, not required voter registration for federal elections or that have offered Election Day voter registration (EDR) for federal general elections. Six states qualify for exemption from the Act: North Dakota (which does not require registration), Idaho, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Maine lost the exemption when it abolished EDR in 2011, although EDR was subsequently restored in that state.\n\nAfter Congress enacted the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to address rampant voting discrimination against racial minorities, voting rights advocates argued for federal legislation to remove other barriers to voter registration in the United States. The basic requirements to vote are the same in all states. A person has to be a U.S. citizen, of at least 18 years old and a resident of the state in which he or she is voting. However, initial legislative efforts to create national voter registration standards for federal elections failed. In the early 1970s, Congress considered several legislative proposals to require the U.S. Census Bureau to mail voter registration forms to every household, none of which passed. In the mid and late 1970s, legislative proposals to require certain public agency offices to make voter registration forms available and to require states to allow Election Day voter registration failed. Similar bills introduced throughout the 1980s also failed.\n\nCongress passed two pieces of legislation in the 1980s that made voter registration for federal elections more accessible for certain disadvantaged populations. In 1984, Congress passed the Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and Handicapped Act, which requires that states make available to elderly and handicapped voters \"a reasonable number of accessible permanent registration facilities\" and registration aids. Congress also passed the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (1986), requiring states to mail federal voter registration forms to overseas and military voters and permit them to register by mail.\n\nIn light of low voter turnout in federal elections throughout the 1980s, Congress returned its attention to creating general voter registration standards in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Members of Congress introduced a series of \"motor voter\" bills that would require state motor vehicle agencies to offer voter registration opportunities to clients applying for driver's licenses. The first of these bills, the proposed National Voter Registration Act of 1989, passed in the House of Representatives with bipartisan support, but it stalled in the Senate. A similar bill, the proposed National Voter Registration Act of 1991, gained less bipartisan support; it passed in both the Senate and the House, but it was vetoed by President George H.W. Bush. Two years later, Congress passed a nearly identical bill: the National Voter Registration Act of 1993.\n\nIn March 1991, the American rock band R.E.M. placed a mail-away petition in support of the act on the back of the longbox of their album \"Out of Time\" and encouraged their fans to fill them out and mail them to Rock the Vote. Rock the Vote received over 100,000 such petitions from the band's fans, and subsequently delivered them to the United States Senate in April 1991. The band's campaign has been credited with raising significant public awareness and support of the act before it was signed into law.\n\nThe purposes of the Act are set out in Section 2:\n\n\nThe Act formally applies only to federal elections. However, because states have unified their voter registration systems for state and federal elections, the provisions functionally apply to both state and federal elections.\n\nThe Act exempts from its requirements states that have continuously, since March 11, 1993, not required voter registration for federal elections or that have offered Election Day voter registration for federal general elections. Six states satisfy these exemption requirements: North Dakota is exempt for having continuously allowed its residents to vote in federal elections without registering, while Idaho, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Wisconsin, and Wyoming have continuously offered Election Day voter registration for federal general elections. (Several states have since adopted some form of same-day voter registration, but these states are nevertheless subject to the Act.)\n\nSection 5 requires state motor vehicle offices to provide voter registration opportunities to anyone applying for a new or renewed driver's license or state identification card.\nThe Act reduces costs of voting registration by accumulating individual data when applying for a drivers license or receiving social assistance. The \"motor voter\" nickname came from the idea that most of the NVRA data was accumulated from applicants renewing or obtaining driver's licenses.\n\nSection 7 requires state agencies that provide public assistanceincluding those that administer federal assistance programs such as food stamps, Medicaid, TANF, and WIC, and disability officesto assist their applicants and clients in registering to vote during the application process.\n\nThe Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP) is responsible for administering NVRA for U.S. citizens abroad. FVAP allows eligible citizens to register to vote at 6000 Armed Forces Recruitment Offices nationwide.\n\nSection 6 allows for more accessible voter registration through mail voter registration.\n\nIn 2004, the Nu Mu Lambda chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity held a voter registration drive in DeKalb County, Georgia, from which Georgia Secretary of State Cathy Cox (Dem.) rejected all 63 voter registration applications on the basis that the fraternity did not follow correct procedures, including obtaining specific pre-clearance from the state to conduct their drive. Nu Mu Lambda filed \"Charles H. Wesley Education Foundation v. Cathy Cox\" (\"Wesley v. Cox\") on the basis that Georgia's long-standing policy and practice of rejecting mail-in voter registration applications that were submitted in bundles, by persons other than registrars, deputy registrars, or \"authorized persons\", violated the requirements of the National Voter Registration Act by undermining voter registration drives. A senior U.S. District Judge upheld earlier federal court decisions in the case, which also found private entities have a right, under the federal law, to engage in organized voter registration activity in Georgia at times and locations of their choosing, without the presence or permission of state or local election officials.\n\nThe Act requires States to \"accept and use\" a uniform federal form to register voters for federal elections. The National Mail Voter Registration Form (commonly referred to as the \"Federal Form\") was developed by the federal Election Assistance Commission (EAC), and requires only that an applicant affirm, under penalty of perjury, various matters including that he or she is a citizen. (The Federal Form can be used as an alternative to any state form.)\n\nArizona, however, requires voter-registration officials to \"reject\" any application for registration, including a Federal Form, that is not accompanied by documentary evidence of citizenship. A group of Arizona residents and a group of nonprofit organizations challenged the Arizona law in court. Ultimately, the District Court granted Arizona summary judgment on the respondents' claim that the federal Act preempts Arizona’s requirement. The Ninth Circuit reversed, holding that the state's documentary-proof-of-citizenship requirement is preempted by the federal Act. On June 17, 2013, the United States Supreme Court ruled against Arizona in \"Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., Inc.\", holding that the federal Act preempted a 2004 Arizona proposition, Arizona Proposition 200 (2004), which was a ballot initiative designed in part \"to combat voter fraud by requiring voters to present proof of citizenship when they register to vote and to present identification when they vote on election day.\" In a 7–2 decision the Court struck down the state law. Justice Antonin Scalia wrote the majority opinion, holding that the State requirements were pre-empted by the federal law, which mandates states to \"accept and use\" the Federal Form. Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito dissented.\n\nVoting rights organizations argue that some states have not been complying with the National Voter Registration Act. In several states, organizations such as Demos, Project Vote, Campaign Legal Center and Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law have filed lawsuits or sent pre-litigation letters. In some of these cases, this has resulted in changes in compliance by states.\n\n"}
{"id": "207184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207184", "title": "Nikolai Kibalchich", "text": "Nikolai Kibalchich\n\nNikolai Ivanovich Kibalchich (, , \"Mykola Ivanovych Kybalchych\"; 19 October 1853 – April 3, 1881) was a Russian revolutionary of Ukrainian origin who took part in the assassination of Tsar Alexander II as the main explosive expert for Narodnaya Volya (the People's Will), and was also a rocket pioneer. He was the paternal uncle of revolutionary Victor Serge.\n\nBorn in Korop, Chernigov Governorate (present Ukraine) in 1853 into a clerical family, Kibalchich was the son of an Orthodox parish priest. He entered a gymnasium in 1864 but was later admitted to a seminary. But he returned to secondary school and finishing it with a silver medal several years later. studied medicine and later engineering at the Saint Petersburg Engineering College and worked on experiments into pulsed rocket propulsion.\n\nIn October 1875, Kibalchich was arrested for lending a prohibited book to a peasant. He spent 3 years in prison before being sentenced to 2 months imprisonment.\n\nHe went on to join Narodnaya Volya in 1878, becoming their main explosives expert. In March 1881, he was charged with taking part in the assassination of Alexander II.\n\nAll through the night from February 28 to March 1, Mykolaj and his assistants - the Fleet Lieutenant Sukhnanov and Mikhail Grachvesky – worked without rest preparing the missile shells. The Peoples Will members had to be quick. Andrei Zhelyabov, who was to direct the missile throwers in an attempt on the life of the Emperor Alexander II, had been arrested on 27 February. If the Tsar survived the explosion, Zhelyabov was to kill him with a dagger. Zhelyabov’s arrest on the eve of the assassination attempt came as a complete surprise, although alarming rumors had appeared in February that the police were up to something. The plan was in jeopardy. There was no one to warn the Narodnaya-Volya people. Nikolai Kletochnikov, assistant to the file clerk of the Third (Security) Department, bearer of a Saint Stanislav Order, who had often warned the Narodniks about the gathering dangers, had been arrested at the end of January.\n\nBy the morning of March 1 four projectiles were ready. One of them killed Alexander II on March 1, 1881, on the embankment of the Yekaterininsky Canal in Saint Petersburg. Kibalchich was arrested on March 17.\n\n\"When his men came to see Kibalchich as his appointed counsel for the defense,\" said V.N Gerard in his statement to the special committee of the senate, \"I was surprised above all by the fact that his mind was occupied with completely different things with no bearing on the present trial. He seems to be immersed in research on some aeronautic missile; he thirsted for a possibility to write down his mathematical calculations involved in the discovery. He wrote them down and submitted them to the authorities.\"\n\nIn a note written in his prison cell, Kibalchich proposed a manned jet air-navigating apparatus. He examined the design of powder rocket engine, controlling the flight by changing engines angle, the pro note is dated March 23. He produced this scientific work truly at death's door.\n\nOn March 26, General Komarov, Chief of the Gendarmery Department, informed the Police Department: \"Pursuant to the request from Nikolai Kibalchich, the son of the priest, who is accused of high treason, I have the honor to present hereby his design of an aeronautic device.\"\n\nThe brief written in the report said: \"To be filed with the March 1 dossier and to give this to \nscientists for consideration now would hardly be expedient since this can only give rise to a lot of wanton talk. Kibalchich’s design was put in an envelope, sealed and filed. The inventor was told that his design would be handed over to scientists for examination.\n\nKibalchich awaited for their answer. The month of March was at an end, with two days left before execution. On March 31 Kibalchich wrote this solicitation address to the Minister of Interior: “By instruction of your Excellency my design of an aeronautic apparatus has been submitted for the consideration of technical committee; could your Excellency direct that I be allowed to meet with any of the committee members on the matter of this design not later than tomorrow morning or at least to receive a written answer from the experts who have examined my design, also no longer than tomorrow.\n\nI also ask your Excellency for permission for me, before I die, to meet with all my comrades\nin the trial or at least with Zhelyabov and Perovskaya.\" All the requests were ignored.\n\nAt 7:50 am on the sunny spring morning of April 3 two “chariots of shame” with the \ncondemned prisoners rode out of the house of the detention to Shpalernaya Street. Zhelyabov was \nin the first, and by his side was Rysakov, who had tossed the first bomb at the coach of \nAlexander II and then betrayed his comrades during the interrogation. Kibalchich, Perovskaya and Mikhailov were in the second. The hands and feet of the condemned were tied to the seats. Each had on his chest a black plaque with the white colored inscription: “A regicide”.\n\nAt 9:21 am the executioner removed the foot stool from under the feet of Kibalchich. Mikhailov, Perovskaya, Zhelyabov and Rysakov were executed after him.\n\nThus, Kybalchych and other Narodnaya Volya plotters including Sophia Perovskaya, Andrei Zhelyabov, Nikolai Rysakov and Timofei Mikhailov were hanged on April 3, 1881.\n\nThe fate of the invention, mentioned in Kybalchych's last letter, proved to be as tragic as that of its 27-year-old creator. Kibalchich’s \ndesign was buried in the archives of Police Department, but the tsar authorities failed to consign \nthe name of the inventor and his idea to oblivion. The trial and execution of the Narodniks had wide \nrepercussions around the world. Much was said and written about Kibalchich’s design abroad and all\nkinds of conjectures were made about the essence of the invention and its subsequent fate. In 1917, Nikolai Rynin rediscovered the manuscript in the archives and published an account of it 1918 in the historic magazine \"Byloye\" (Былое, \"The Past\").\n\nIn 1891, similar ideas were developed independently by the German engineer Hermann Ganswindt. After WWII, Stanislaw Ulam proposed a nuclear pulse propulsion scheme which was studied in Project ORION.\n\nThe International Astronomical Union honoured the rocketry pioneer by naming a crater on the moon Kibalchich's crater(Kibal'chich). Located at 3.0° N 146.5° W, the Moon's far side.\n\nThe Dream of a propulsive device by a Scientist that was stolen by death\n\n\"I, Nikolai Kibalchich, am writing down this design in prison with several days to go before my \nexecution. I believed in the practicability of my idea and this belief sustains me in my appalling situation by scientists and specialists who show my idea to be practicable, I will feel happy in the knowledge that I have rendered an immense service to my country and mankind. I will then calmly meet death, knowing that my idea will not die with me but will remain with mankind for which I prepared to sacrifice my life. That is why I pray to those scientists who will examine my design that they treat it with the utmost seriousness and good faith and let me know their answer as soon as possible.\n\nFirst and foremost I need it necessary to note that, when at large, I did not have time to \nelaborate my design in details and prove its feasibility mathematically. Now it is, of course \nimpossible for me to obtain the materials necessary for that. Consequently, this task that of \nsubstantiating my design with mathematical calculation will have to be done by those experts \ninto whose hands my design will find its way.\n\nBesides, I am not familiar with the mass of similar design which have, appeared lately; that is\nto say I am aware of the idea behind those designs but I am not familiar with the way whereby the inventors hope to carry them out. As far as I know, however my idea has not yet been proposed by anyone else.\n\nIn my thought about an aeronautic machine I have concentrated mainly on this question: what force has to be applied in order to set such machine in motion? In my opinion it is slowly burning explosive substances that can provide such a force.\n\nIn fact, the combustion of explosive substance results with a comparative rapidity in large \nquantity of gases possessing a huge energy at the instance of their formation. But can one use \nthe energy of gases, formed by explosive ignition, to perform work of any duration? This is \npossible only if the huge energy of explosive combustion, rather than last instantaneously, \nwill be generated during a more or less prolonged period of time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24350399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24350399", "title": "One (Written) Language", "text": "One (Written) Language\n\nOne (Written) Language () is a Norwegian political party that ran for the parliamentary election in 2009. The party's main goal is to abolish Nynorsk as a written language in schools and the public sector. In 2009, it ran for election in Akershus, and received 100 votes. \n\nThe party was founded by Norwegian language teacher Einar Smørdal who had previously proposed such a party in a letter to the local newspaper \"Møre\" in Volda. The party's immediate issue was to end compulsory education in Nynorsk in grade and high school, while making Bokmål the sole language in public documents was a more long-term goal. The party emphasized that it did not oppose spoken dialects, it was having two parallel written languages which they opposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "3811659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3811659", "title": "Peaceworkers UK", "text": "Peaceworkers UK\n\nPeaceworkers UK (PWUK) is part of the Peacebuilding Issues Programme of International Alert. Previously an independent non-governmental organisation, PWUK became part of International Alert in 2006. PWUK focuses on raising standards in the field of conflict prevention, crisis management and peacebuilding through an integrated programme of research, training, assessment and recruitment. It is led by a Director (Tim Wallis) who has a PhD in Peace Studies and over 20 years management experience in the field.\n\nPeaceworkers UK began as an independent research project in 2000 to explore the phenomenon of ‘civilian peace services’ being set up in at least six other European countries. In 2001, it functioned as the secretariat for a Steering Group of other UK-based organisations exploring the feasibility of a UK Civilian Peace Service. The Steering Group, consisting of the organisations listed above, decided in 2002 to set up Peaceworkers UK as an independent entity to pursue these objectives.\n\n\nThe PeaceworkersRegister is an international database of people suitably qualified and potentially available for a wide range of roles needed in conflict prevention, crisis management and peacebuilding. Its primary purpose is to help both local and international organisations to find and deploy the best people meeting the highest standards of professional competence in their particular field. As a professional development tool, it also helps those who join it to identify and improve their own skills and qualifications.\n\nThe PeaceworkersTraining programme offers practical, field-based training to prepare people for the many different roles they may play in this field. There are introductory and core skill courses as well as specialised courses in human rights, conflict transformation, human security, and civil society capacity-building. Some of the more specialist courses are run under the auspices of the EU Training Project in Civilian Crisis Management.\n\nPeaceworkersSimulations provide a means to assess people against commonly agreed minimum standards of professional competence. Observing people’s responses under simulated field conditions provides the basis for assessments at five levels of competency across a wide range of fieldwork categories.\n\nThe aim of PeaceworkersResearch is to establish a body of knowledge about what has or has not \"worked\" in different situations of violent conflict. Research activities include field-based personnel assessments and surveys as well as in-house data analysis, tapping into a comprehensive network of individuals and organisations in the field. Why best placed: Peaceworkers UK is best placed to do this work because it has been developing this integrated programme of recruitment, training and assessment for the past five years and has built up an unparalleled understanding of the personal qualities, skills and knowledge needed to work effectively across a range of work categories in this field. It has already begun developing and obtaining wide agreement on a set of appropriate occupational standards together with a tried and tested methodology for training and assessing people against those standards. It has the capacity, the human resources and the know-how to achieve these objectives and is in the strongest possible position to help governments, United Nations agencies and Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to make a real difference to the lives of millions unable to escape the causes and consequences of violent conflict in so many parts of the world.\n\nAlert's PeaceworkersUK works with a wide range of partners in the UK and Europe as well as in the rest of the world. Our closest UK partners are Saferworld, Electoral Reform International Services (ERIS), and RedR. As a member of the Peace & Security Liaison Group we also work closely with a number of other UK-based organisations working for the prevention, management and resolution of violent conflict around the world.\n\nAs a member of the European Network of Civil Peace Services, PWUK also works closely with partner organisations sharing similar aims in ten other European countries. We have partnerships with organisations working directly on their own situations of violent conflict or its aftermath in Chechnya, Moldova, Turkey, Croatia, and Georgia. Outside Europe, PWUK has a special link with the 93 member organisations of the Nonviolent Peaceforce as well as with a few specific organisations with which we have worked in Nepal, Palestine, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Zimbabwe.\n\n"}
{"id": "24557080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24557080", "title": "Pennsylvania Leadership Conference", "text": "Pennsylvania Leadership Conference\n\nPennsylvania Leadership Conference is an annual two-day conference organized by the Pennsylvania Leadership Council of Pennsylvania conservative activists in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Leadership Conference was founded in 1989 by a group of conservative activists, including Charlie Gerow, Susan Staub, Jim Panyard, Don Eberly, and John Fluharty, seeking to strengthen the conservative \"grassroots lobby\" in Pennsylvania. The first conference attracted 300 attendees and featured speakers including Congressmen Robert Smith Walker and Newt Gingrich and State Representatives Joseph R. Pitts and Howard L. Fargo. The \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" described it as an \"anti-left nirvana.\" The conference was scheduled during the Republican State Committee of Pennsylvania meeting in Erie, leading commentators to speculate that it was intended to drain support from eventual Republican nominee for Pennsylvania Governor Barbara Hafer because of her pro-choice stance. However, conference organizers denied such an ulterior motive.\n\nFollowing the first meeting, the Pennsylvania Leadership Council was founded to coordinate the conference's annual organization, with Lowman S. Henry serving as president. Later presidents included Sean Duffy and Gorden Blain. Speakers at the Pennsylvania Leadership Conference have included M. Stanton Evans, Bill Bennett, Robert Novak, Alan Keyes, Lynne Cheney, Armstrong Williams, Walter Williams, John Gizzi, and David Horowitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "6037920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6037920", "title": "Pi Alpha Alpha", "text": "Pi Alpha Alpha\n\nPi Alpha Alpha (ΠΑΑ or PAA) is the national honor society for students of public administration. It is administered by the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration in the United States.\n\nThe organization was formed to promote excellence in the study and practice of public administration and public affairs. There are 167 Pi Alpha Alpha chapters, with more than 30,000 members.\n\n\"The purpose of Pi Alpha Alpha is to encourage and recognize outstanding scholarship and accomplishment in public affairs and administration. Its objectives, such as fostering integrity, professionalism, and effective performance, promote the advancement of quality in the education and practice of the art and science of public affairs and administration. PAA membership identifies those with the highest performance levels in educational programs preparing them for public service careers.\"\n\nPi Alpha Alpha (PAA) was established in 1974 by NASPAA under the leadership of the first PAA president Don L. Bowen. This honor society began with the goal to encourage excellence and recognize students who have gone above and beyond in the study of public policy and administration.\n\nThere are three different membership types: student, faculty/staff, and honorary.\n\nStudents are required to have 50% of NASPAA degree program coursework completed and a GPA of 3.7.\n\nMemberships dues are set at $50 by PAA, and local chapters may collect additional dues for programming costs. Membership is for life.\n\n\"I pledge my support for the intellectual and professional advancement of the art and science of public administration and public affairs. I shall honor and respect the virtues and values of public service and those who serve.\n\n\"I shall uphold the eternal need for education that imbues public administrators with traditions of democratic governance.\n\n\"Moreover, as a member of Pi Alpha Alpha, I shall uphold the highest ethical standards applying to public service and will endeavor to encourage and engage in meaningful interaction with other members.\"\n\nPAA is a program within NASPAA, the global standard in public service education. NASPAA owns the registered trademark for PAA (U.S. Reg. No. 4,708,021). PAA is a sponsor of the annual NASPAA Student Simulation Competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2471540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471540", "title": "Security hacker", "text": "Security hacker\n\nA security hacker is someone who seeks to breach defenses and exploit weaknesses in a computer system or network. Hackers may be motivated by a multitude of reasons, such as profit, protest, information gathering, challenge, recreation, or to evaluate system weaknesses to assist in formulating defenses against potential hackers. The subculture that has evolved around hackers is often referred to as the computer underground.\n\nThere is a longstanding controversy about the term's true meaning. In this controversy, the term \"hacker\" is reclaimed by computer programmers who argue that it refers simply to someone with an advanced understanding of computers and computer networks,\nand that cracker is the more appropriate term for those who break into computers, whether computer criminal (black hats) or computer security expert (white hats). A 2014 article concluded that \"... the black-hat meaning still prevails among the general public\".\n\nIn computer security, a hacker is someone who focuses on security mechanisms of computer and network systems. While including those who endeavor to strengthen such mechanisms, it is more often used by the mass media and popular culture to refer to those who seek access despite these security measures. That is, the media portrays the 'hacker' as a villain. Nevertheless, parts of the subculture see their aim in correcting security problems and use the word in a positive sense. White hat is the name given to ethical computer hackers, who utilize hacking in a helpful way. White hats are becoming a necessary part of the information security field. They operate under a code, which acknowledges that breaking into other people's computers is bad, but that discovering and exploiting security mechanisms and breaking into computers is still an interesting activity that can be done ethically and legally. Accordingly, the term bears strong connotations that are favorable or pejorative, depending on the context.\n\nThe subculture around such hackers is termed network hacker subculture, hacker scene, or computer underground. It initially developed in the context of phreaking during the 1960s and the microcomputer BBS scene of the 1980s. It is implicated with \"\" and the \"alt.2600\" newsgroup.\n\nIn 1980, an article in the August issue of \"Psychology Today\" (with commentary by Philip Zimbardo) used the term \"hacker\" in its title: \"The Hacker Papers\". It was an excerpt from a Stanford Bulletin Board discussion on the addictive nature of computer use. In the 1982 film \"Tron\", Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges) describes his intentions to break into ENCOM's computer system, saying \"I've been doing a little hacking here\". CLU is the software he uses for this. By 1983, hacking in the sense of breaking computer security had already been in use as computer jargon, but there was no public awareness about such activities. However, the release of the film \"WarGames\" that year, featuring a computer intrusion into NORAD, raised the public belief that computer security hackers (especially teenagers) could be a threat to national security. This concern became real when, in the same year, a gang of teenage hackers in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, known as The 414s, broke into computer systems throughout the United States and Canada, including those of Los Alamos National Laboratory, Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Security Pacific Bank. The case quickly grew media attention, and 17-year-old Neal Patrick emerged as the spokesman for the gang, including a cover story in \"Newsweek\" entitled \"Beware: Hackers at play\", with Patrick's photograph on the cover. The \"Newsweek\" article appears to be the first use of the word \"hacker\" by the mainstream media in the pejorative sense.\n\nPressured by media coverage, congressman Dan Glickman called for an investigation and began work on new laws against computer hacking.\nNeal Patrick testified before the U.S. House of Representatives on September 26, 1983, about the dangers of computer hacking, and six bills concerning computer crime were introduced in the House that year. As a result of these laws against computer criminality, white hat, grey hat and black hat hackers try to distinguish themselves from each other, depending on the legality of their activities. These moral conflicts are expressed in The Mentor's \"The Hacker Manifesto\", published 1986 in \"Phrack\".\n\nUse of the term hacker meaning computer criminal was also advanced by the title \"Stalking the Wily Hacker\", an article by Clifford Stoll in the May 1988 issue of the \"Communications of the ACM\". Later that year, the release by Robert Tappan Morris, Jr. of the so-called Morris worm provoked the popular media to spread this usage. The popularity of Stoll's book \"The Cuckoo's Egg\", published one year later, further entrenched the term in the public's consciousness.\n\nSeveral subgroups of the computer underground with different attitudes use different terms to demarcate themselves from each other, or try to exclude some specific group with whom they do not agree.\n\nEric S. Raymond, author of \"The New Hacker's Dictionary\", advocates that members of the computer underground should be called crackers. Yet, those people see themselves as hackers and even try to include the views of Raymond in what they see as a wider hacker culture, a view that Raymond has harshly rejected. Instead of a hacker/cracker dichotomy, they emphasize a spectrum of different categories, such as white hat, grey hat, black hat and script kiddie. In contrast to Raymond, they usually reserve the term \"cracker\" for more malicious activity.\n\nAccording to Ralph D. Clifford, a \"cracker\" or \"cracking\" is to \"gain unauthorized access to a computer in order to commit another crime such as destroying information contained in that system\". These subgroups may also be defined by the legal status of their activities.\n\nA white hat hacker breaks security for non-malicious reasons, either to test their own security system, perform penetration tests, or vulnerability assessments for a client - or while working for a security company which makes security software. The term is generally synonymous with ethical hacker, and the EC-Council, among others, have developed certifications, courseware, classes, and online training covering the diverse arena of ethical hacking.\n\nA \"black hat\" hacker is a hacker who \"violates computer security for little reason beyond maliciousness or for personal gain\" (Moore, 2005). The term was coined by Richard Stallman, to contrast the maliciousness of a criminal hacker versus the spirit of playfulness and exploration in hacker culture, or the ethos of the white hat hacker who performs hacking duties to identify places to repair or as a means of legitimate employment. Black hat hackers form the stereotypical, illegal hacking groups often portrayed in popular culture, and are \"the epitome of all that the public fears in a computer criminal\".\n\nA grey hat hacker lies between a black hat and a white hat hacker. A grey hat hacker may surf the Internet and hack into a computer system for the sole purpose of notifying the administrator that their system has a security defect, for example. They may then offer to correct the defect for a fee. Grey hat hackers sometimes find the defect of a system and publish the facts to the world instead of a group of people. Even though grey hat hackers may not necessarily perform hacking for their personal gain, unauthorized access to a system can be considered illegal and unethical.\n\nA social status among hackers, \"elite\" is used to describe the most skilled. Newly discovered exploits circulate among these hackers. Elite groups such as Masters of Deception conferred a kind of credibility on their members.\n\nA script kiddie (also known as a \"skid\" or \"skiddie\") is an unskilled hacker who breaks into computer systems by using automated tools written by others (usually by other black hat hackers), hence the term script (i.e. a prearranged plan or set of activities) kiddie (i.e. kid, child—an individual lacking knowledge and experience, immature), usually with little understanding of the underlying concept.\n\nA neophyte (\"newbie\", or \"noob\") is someone who is new to hacking or phreaking and has almost no knowledge or experience of the workings of technology and hacking.\n\nA blue hat hacker is someone outside computer security consulting firms who is used to bug-test a system prior to its launch, looking for exploits so they can be closed. Microsoft also uses the term \"BlueHat\" to represent a series of security briefing events.\n\nA hacktivist is a hacker who utilizes technology to publicize a social, ideological, religious or political message.\n\nHacktivism can be divided into two main groups:\n\nIntelligence agencies and cyberwarfare operatives of nation states.\n\nGroups of hackers that carry out organized criminal activities for profit.\n\nA typical approach in an attack on Internet-connected system is:\n\nIn order to do so, there are several recurring tools of the trade and techniques used by computer criminals and security experts.\n\nA security exploit is a prepared application that takes advantage of a known weakness. Common examples of security exploits are SQL injection, cross-site scripting and cross-site request forgery which abuse security holes that may result from substandard programming practice. Other exploits would be able to be used through File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), PHP, SSH, Telnet and some Web pages. These are very common in Web site and Web domain hacking.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTools and Procedures\n\n\nThe computer underground has produced its own specialized slang, such as 1337speak. Its members often advocate freedom of information, strongly opposing the principles of copyright, as well as the rights of free speech and privacy. Writing software and performing other activities to support these views is referred to as hacktivism. Some consider illegal cracking ethically justified for these goals; a common form is website defacement. The computer underground is frequently compared to the Wild West. It is common for hackers to use aliases to conceal their identities.\n\nThe computer underground is supported by regular real-world gatherings called hacker conventions or \"hacker cons\". These events include SummerCon (Summer), DEF CON, HoHoCon (Christmas), ShmooCon (February), BlackHat, Chaos Communication Congress, AthCon, Hacker Halted, and HOPE. Local Hackfest groups organize and compete to develop their skills to send a team to a prominent convention to compete in group pentesting, exploit and forensics on a larger scale. Hacker groups became popular in the early 1980s, providing access to hacking information and resources and a place to learn from other members. Computer bulletin board systems (BBSs), such as the Utopias, provided platforms for information-sharing via dial-up modem. Hackers could also gain credibility by being affiliated with elite groups.\n\nMaximum imprisonment is one year or a fine of the fourth category.\n\n, more commonly known as the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, prohibits unauthorized access or damage of \"protected computers\". \"Protected computers\" are defined in as:\n\n\nThe maximum imprisonment or fine for violations of the \"Computer Fraud and Abuse Act\" depends on the severity of the violation and the offender's history of violations under the \"Act\".\n\nThe most notable hacker-oriented print publications are \"Phrack\", \"Hakin9\" and \"\". While the information contained in hacker magazines and ezines was often outdated by the time they were published, they enhanced their contributors' reputations by documenting their successes.\n\nHackers often show an interest in fictional cyberpunk and cyberculture literature and movies. The adoption of fictional pseudonyms, symbols, values and metaphors from these works is very common.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6028263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6028263", "title": "Side Effects (2005 film)", "text": "Side Effects (2005 film)\n\nSide Effects is a 2005 romantic comedy about the pharmaceutical industry, directed by Kathleen Slattery-Moschkau and starring Katherine Heigl as Karly Hert, a pharmaceutical \"detailer\", who becomes disillusioned with the lack of ethics in the pharmaceutical industry and has tough choices to make. The film also stars Lucian McAfee, Dorian DeMichele, Dave Durbin, Temeceka Harris. The film's title is a reference to the medical term \"side effects\".\n\nThe film was written and directed by former pharmaceutical sales representative Kathleen Slattery-Moschkau. The movie is a semi-autobiographical account of Slattery-Moschkau's decade of work in the pharmaceutical industry. Katherine Heigl served as the film's executive producer.\n\n\nThe film was shot in 18 days in the summer of 2004 on a budget of $190,000.\n\nIn 2009, New Line and Warner Bros. released the film to DVD.\n\nThe film received mixed to negative reviews, it received an approval rating of 11% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 9 reviews.\n"}
{"id": "48818049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48818049", "title": "Spy Museum Berlin", "text": "Spy Museum Berlin\n\nThe Spy Museum Berlin is a private Museum in Berlin which was opened to the public on 19 September 2015. It is located at Leipziger Platz, directly at Berlin Potsdamer Platz station. The Museum shows in an interactive and multimedia exhibition the history of espionage and secret services worldwide. Special emphasis is dedicated to espionage activities in Berlin during the Cold War.\n\nIn an exhibition space of 3,000 m² (32.000 sq ft) the museum exposes more than 300 exhibits from the own inventory consisting of more than 1,000 collection items as well as loans. The exhibition features e.g. an original enigma, rare CIA cameras and props from James Bond movies. The collection consists mostly of originals and it is supplemented by replicas. The presentation of the exhibits is supported by installations. Most of the exhibits can be experienced by touchscreens in 360° and for many showcases transparent LCDs provided with information are used.\n\nMain topics of the exhibition are the following:\n\n\nFurthermore, there are the following installations:\n\n\nIn the exit area there are a shop, a café and a cinema.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6697032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6697032", "title": "Steal This Film", "text": "Steal This Film\n\nSteal This Film is a film series documenting the movement against intellectual property directed by Jamie King, produced by The League of Noble Peers and released via the BitTorrent peer-to-peer protocol.\n\nTwo parts, and one special The Pirate Bay trial edition of the first part, have been released so far, and The League of Noble Peers is working on \"Steal this Film – The Movie\" and a new project entitled \"The Oil of the 21st Century\".\n\n\"Part One\", shot in Sweden and released in August 2006, combines accounts from prominent players in the Swedish piracy culture (The Pirate Bay, Piratbyrån, and the Pirate Party) with found material, propaganda-like slogans and Vox Pops.\n\nIt includes interviews with The Pirate Bay members Fredrik Neij (tiamo), Gottfrid Svartholm (anakata) and Peter Sunde (brokep) that were later re-used by agreement in the documentary film \"Good Copy Bad Copy\", as well as with Piratbyrån members Rasmus Fleischer (rsms), Johan (krignell) and Sara Andersson (fraux).\n\nThe film is notable for its critical analysis of an alleged regulatory capture attempt performed by the Hollywood film lobby to leverage economic sanctions by the United States government on Sweden through the WTO. Evidence is presented of pressure applied through Swedish courts on Swedish police to conducting a search and seizure against The Pirate Bay to disrupt its BitTorrent tracker service, in contravention of Swedish law.\n\n\"The Guardian's\" James Flint called \"Part One\" \"at heart a traditionally structured 'talking heads' documentary\" with \"amusing stylings\" from film-makers who \"practice what they preach.\" It also screened at the British Film Institute and numerous independent international events, and was a talking point in 2007's British Documentary Film Festival. In January 2008 it was featured on BBC Radio 4's \"Today\", in a discussion piece which explored the implications of P2P for traditional media. \n\nMaterial found in \"Steal This Film\" includes the music of Can, tracks \"Thief\" and \"She Brings the Rain\"; clips from other documentary interviews with industry and governmental officials; several industry anti-piracy promotionals; logos from several major Hollywood studios, and sequences from \"The Day After Tomorrow\", \"The Matrix\", \"Zabriskie Point\", and \"They Live\". The use of these short clips is believed to constitute fair use.\n\n\"Steal This Film (Part 2)\" (sometimes subtitled 'The Dissolving Fortress') was produced during 2007. It premiered (in a preliminary version) at a conference entitled \"The Oil of the 21st Century – Perspectives on Intellectual Property\" in Berlin, Germany, November 2007.\n\nThematically, \"Part 2\" \"examines the technological and enforcement end of the copyright wars, and on the way that using the internet makes you a copier, and how copying puts you in legal jeopardy.\" It discusses Mark Getty's assertion that 'intellectual property is the oil of the 21st century'. \"Part 2\" draws parallels between the impact of the printing press and the internet in terms of making information accessible beyond a privileged group or \"controllers\". The argument is made that the decentralised nature of the internet makes the enforcement of conventional copyright impossible. Adding to this the internet turns consumers into producers, by way of user generated content, leading to the sharing, mashup and creation of content not motivated by financial gains. This has fundamental implications for market-based media companies. The documentary asks \"How will society change\" and states \"This is the Future – And it has nothing to do with your bank balance\".\n\nBoing Boing's Cory Doctorow called it 'an amazing, funny, enraging and inspiring documentary series', and Part II \"even better than part I.\"\n\n\nA Trial Edition (also known as '2.5' or 'Spectrial' edition) was released to coincide with the trial in 2009 of The Pirate Bay. This version includes material from \"Steal This Film I\" and \"II\" combined with new interviews shot with Peter Sunde and others during 2008, some historical background about the Pirate Bay and Dutch printers (who were also considered pirates) as well as interview clips about the legal conflict itself. \"Steal This Film 'Spectrial Edition\"' is widely available online and it is thought to be this version that is now available to television stations and others. One full-length copy is available for online viewing on the popular video-sharing website YouTube.\n\nThe new edition of \"Steal This Film\" was part of the Official Selection and in competition at the 2009 Roma Fiction Festival (Factual strand). The jury awarded a Special Mention for its \"unconventional style and provocative look at the media revolution taking place in the world.\"\n\n\"Steal This Film\" was selected for the Sheffield International Documentary Film Festival 2008, South By Southwest festival 2008 in Austin, Texas, and the Singapore International Film Festival 2008. Other festivals at which it was shown included Tampere Film Festival, 2008, Salt Spring Film Festival 2007, Rhythm of the Line Festival 2007 and Kerala International Film Festival, India. \"Steal This Film\" was nominated for the Ars Electronica 2008 Digital Communities prize and was a semi-finalist in online video-streaming site Babelgum's 2008 competition. Amongst others it has been shown on History Channel Spain, Canal + Poland, Noga Israel, TV4 Sweden and Dublin Community TV, Ireland. \n\nThe film is taught in Universities on media courses worldwide, including New York University's Media Culture & Communication course.\n\nThe film is famous partly for being one of the most downloaded documentaries to date. Part One was released through an arrangement with The Pirate Bay; the filesharing site marketed \"Steal This Film\" in place of its own pirate ship logo. This produced millions of downloads for the film and catapulted it to wide recognition on the Internet after it hit Digg, Slashdot, Reddit and other online centres of attention.\n\n\"Steal This Film (Part 2)\" was distributed in a similar manner, but with more trackers and indexes involved, including Isohunt and Mininova. Estimates of the total current downloads of the film hover at around the 6 million mark via bittorrent alone. Since the creators have not attempted to restrict copying, the film is also available on YouTube, Google Video and many other web-based video services.\n\nA cam version leaked soon after the premiere of \"Steal This Film (Part 2)\" in Berlin. \"Part 2\" had its theatrical (rather than viewed online) premiere at the openly organised \"Who Makes And Owns Your Work\" artistic seminar in Stockholm 2007. Despite the principles of the seminar itself (organised via public wiki in a year-long process), the involvement of Piratbyran roused the funders of the seminar, the Swedish Arts Grants Committee, to prohibit Piratbyran's logo on the seminar marketing materials alongside its own. The seminar initiators' solution was to add a black sticker dot over the logo, which was easily peeled off. Another condition given by the Committee was that a moderator or an anti-piracy spokesperson be present to balance the debate.\nThe documentary was officially released for peer-to-peer filesharing using peer-to-peer networks on 28 December 2007 and, according to the filmmakers, downloaded 150,000 times in the first three days of distribution. Pirate Bay encouraged the downloading of Steal This Film Two, announcing its release on its blog. \"Steal This Film Part 2\" was also screened by the Pirate Cinema Copenhagen in January 2008. The documentary can also be downloaded on the official Steal This Film website.\n\nBoth \"Part One\" and \"Part Two\" are in English, mostly, with the former having some Swedish dialogue subtitled in English. Due to great interest in the documentary by volunteer translators, \"Part Two\" has subtitles in Czech, Croatian, Danish, Dutch, French, Finnish, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Turkish and Ukrainian.\n\nAs well as funding from BRITDOC, the \"Steal This Film\" producers continues to use a loose version of the Street Performer Protocol, collecting voluntary donations via a PayPal account, from the website. For future financing, director Jamie King (producer) has written that he and the League of Noble Peers propose, a \"post IP compensation system\" which \"allows viewers and listeners to make voluntary payments right from the client in which they play media.\"\n\nThe League of Noble Peers asked for donations and more than US$30,000 has been received as of 5 July 2009. The filmmakers report that roughly one in a thousand viewers are donating, mostly USD $15–40.\n\n\"Steal This Film\" One and Two are credited as 'conceived, directed, and produced' by The League of Noble Peers. Where Part One contains no personal attribution, Part Two has full credits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1809033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1809033", "title": "Stereotype threat", "text": "Stereotype threat\n\nStereotype threat is a situational predicament in which people are or feel themselves to be at risk of conforming to stereotypes about their social group. Since its introduction into the academic literature, stereotype threat has become one of the most widely studied topics in the field of social psychology.\nStereotype threat has been argued to show a reduction in the performance of individuals who belong to negatively stereotyped groups. According to the theory, if negative stereotypes are present regarding a specific group, group members are likely to become anxious about their performance, which may hinder their ability to perform to their full potential. Importantly, the individual does not need to subscribe to the stereotype for it to be activated. It is hypothesized that the mechanism through which anxiety (induced by the activation of the stereotype) decreases performance is by depleting working memory (especially the phonological aspects of the working memory system).\n\nHowever, studies have cautioned that stereotype threat should not be interpreted as a factor in real-world performance gaps. One review has voiced concerns that the effect has been over-estimated for schoolgirls and that the field likely suffers from publication bias.\n\nStereotype threat is purportedly a contributing factor to long-standing racial and gender gaps in academic performance. It may occur whenever an individual's performance might confirm a negative stereotype because stereotype threat is thought to arise from a particular situation, rather than from an individual's personality traits or characteristics. Since most people have at least one social identity which is negatively stereotyped, most people are vulnerable to stereotype threat if they encounter a situation in which the stereotype is relevant. Situational factors that increase stereotype threat can include the difficulty of the task, the belief that the task measures their abilities, and the relevance of the stereotype to the task. Individuals show higher degrees of stereotype threat on tasks they wish to perform well on and when they identify strongly with the stereotyped group. These effects are also increased when they expect discrimination due to their identification with a negatively stereotyped group. Repeated experiences of stereotype threat can lead to a vicious circle of diminished confidence, poor performance, and loss of interest in the relevant area of achievement.\n\nThe opposite of stereotype threat is stereotype boost, which is when people perform better than they otherwise would have, because of exposure to positive stereotypes about their social group. A variant of stereotype boost is stereotype lift, which is people achieving better performance because of exposure to negative stereotypes about other social groups.\n\nIn 1995, Claude Steele and Joshua Aronson performed the first experiments demonstrating that stereotype threat can undermine intellectual performance. They had African-American and European-American college students take a difficult verbal portion of the Graduate Record Examination test. As would be expected based on national averages, the African-American students did not perform as well on the test. Steele and Aronson split students into three groups: stereotype-threat (in which the test was described as being \"diagnostic of intellectual ability\"), non-stereotype threat (in which the test was described as \"a laboratory problem-solving task that was nondiagnostic of ability\"), and a third condition (in which the test was again described as nondiagnostic of ability, but participants were asked to view the difficult test as a challenge). All three groups received the same test.\n\nAdjusted for previous SAT scores, subjects in the non-diagnostic-challenge condition performed significantly better than those in the non-diagnostic-only condition and those in the diagnostic condition. In the first experiment, the race-by-condition interaction was marginally significant. However, the second study reported in the same paper found a significant interaction effect of race and condition. This suggested that placement in the diagnostic condition significantly impacted African Americans compared with European Americans.\n\nSteele and Aronson concluded that changing the instructions on the test could reduce African-American students' concern about confirming a negative stereotype about their group. Supporting this conclusion, they found that African-American students who regarded the test as a measure of intelligence had more thoughts related to negative stereotypes of their group. Steele and Aronson measured this through a word completion task. They found that African Americans who thought the test measured intelligence were more likely to complete word fragments using words associated with relevant negative stereotypes (e.g., completing \"__mb\" as \"dumb\" rather than as \"numb\").\n\nMore than 300 published papers show the effects of stereotype threat on performance in a variety of domains. The strength of the stereotype threat that occurs depends on how the task is framed. If a task is framed to be neutral, stereotype threat is not likely to occur; however, if tasks are framed in terms of active stereotypes, participants are likely to perform worse on the task. For example, a study on chess players revealed that female players performed more poorly than expected when they were told they would be playing against a male opponent. In contrast, women who were told that their opponent was female performed as would be predicted by past ratings of performance. Female participants who were made aware of the stereotype of females performing worse at chess than males performed worse in their chess games.\n\nResearchers Vishal Gupta, Daniel Turban, and Nachiket Bhawe extended stereotype threat research to entrepreneurship, a traditionally male-stereotyped profession. Their study revealed that stereotype threat can depress women's entrepreneurial intentions while boosting men's intentions. However, when entrepreneurship is presented as a gender-neutral profession, men and women express a similar level of interest in becoming entrepreneurs. Another experiment involved a golf game which was described as a test of \"natural athletic ability\" or of \"sports intelligence\". When it was described as a test of athletic ability, European-American students performed worse, but when the description mentioned intelligence, African-American students performed worse.\n\nOther studies have demonstrated how stereotype threat can negatively affect the performance of European Americans in athletic situations as well as the performance of men who are being tested on their social sensitivity. Although the framing of a task can produce stereotype threat in most individuals, certain individuals appear to be more likely to experience stereotype threat than others. Individuals who highly identify with a particular group appear to be more vulnerable to experiencing stereotype threat than individuals who do not identify strongly with the stereotyped group.\n\nThe mere presence of other people can evoke stereotype threat. In one experiment, women who took a mathematics exam along with two other women got 70% of the answers right, whereas women who took the same exam in the presence of two men got an average score of 55%.\n\nThe goal of a study conducted by Desert, Preaux, and Jund in 2009 was to see if children from lower socioeconomic groups are affected by stereotype threat. The study compared children that were 6–7 years old with children that were 8–9 years old from multiple elementary schools. These children were presented with the Raven's Matrices test, which is an intellectual ability test. Separate groups of children were given directions in an evaluative way and other groups were given directions in a non-evaluative way. The \"evaluative\" group received instructions that are usually given with the Raven Matrices test, while the \"non-evaluative\" group was given directions which made it seem as if the children were simply playing a game. The results showed that third graders performed better on the test than the first graders did, which was expected. However, the lower socioeconomic status children did worse on the test when they received directions in an evaluative way than the higher socioeconomic status children did when they received directions in an evaluative way. These results suggested that the framing of the directions given to the children may have a greater effect on performance than socioeconomic status. This was shown by the differences in performance based on which type of instructions they received. This information can be useful in classroom settings to help improve the performance of students of lower socioeconomic status.\n\nThere have been studies on the effects of stereotype threat based on age. A study was done on 99 senior citizens ranging in age from 60–75 years. These seniors were given multiple tests on certain factors and categories such as memory and physical abilities, and were also asked to evaluate how physically fit they believe themselves to be. Additionally, they were asked to read articles that contained both positive and negative outlooks about seniors, and they watched someone reading the same articles. The goal of this study was to see if priming the participants before the tests would affect performance. The results showed that the control group performed better than those that were primed with either negative or positive words prior to the tests. The control group seemed to feel more confident in their abilities than the other two groups.\n\nMany psychological experiments carried out on Stereotype Threat focus on the physiological effects of negative stereotype threat on performance, looking at both high and low status groups. Scheepers and Ellemers tested the following hypothesis: when assessing a performance situation on the basis of current beliefs the low status group members would show a physiological threat response, and high-status members would also show a physiological threat response when examining a possible alteration of the status quo(Scheepers & Ellemers, 2005). The results of this experiment were in line with expectations. As predicted, participants in the low status condition showed higher blood pressure immediately after the status feedback, while participants in the high-status condition showed a spike in blood pressure while anticipating the second round of the task.\n\nIn 2012, Scheepers et al. hypothesized that when high social power is stimulated 'an efficient cardiovascular pattern (challenge)' is produced, whereas, 'an inefficient cardiovascular pattern' or threat is caused by the activation of low social power (Scheepers, de Wit, Ellemers & Sassenberg, 2012). Two experiments were carried out in order to test this hypothesis. The first experiment looked at power priming and the second experiment related to role play. Both results from these two experiments provided evidence in support for the hypothesis.\n\nCleopatra Abdou and Adam Fingerhut were the first to develop experimental methods to study stereotype threat in a health care context, including the first study indicating that health care stereotype threat is linked with adverse health outcomes and disparities.\n\nStereotype threat concerns how stereotype cues can harm performance. However, in certain situations, stereotype activation can also lead to performance enhancement through stereotype lift or stereotype boost. Stereotype lift increases performance when people are exposed to negative stereotypes about another group. This enhanced performance has been attributed to increases in self-efficacy and decreases in self-doubt as a result of negative outgroup stereotypes. Stereotype boost suggests that positive stereotypes may enhance performance. Stereotype boost occurs when a positive aspect of an individual's social identity is made salient in an identity-relevant domain. Although stereotype boost is similar to stereotype lift in enhancing performance, stereotype lift is the result of a negative outgroup stereotype, whereas stereotype boost occurs due to activation of a positive ingroup stereotype.\n\nConsistent with the positive racial stereotype concerning their superior quantitative skills, Asian American women performed better on a math test when their Asian identity was primed compared to a control condition where no social identity was primed. Conversely, these participants did worse on the math test when instead their gender identity—which is associated with stereotypes of inferior quantitative skills—was made salient, which is consistent with stereotype threat. Two replications of this result have been attempted. In one case, the effect was only reproduced after excluding participants who were unaware of stereotypes about the mathematical abilities of Asians or women, while the other replication failed to reproduce the original results even considering several moderating variables.\n\nAlthough numerous studies demonstrate the effects of stereotype threat on performance, questions remain as to the specific cognitive factors that underlie these effects. Steele and Aronson originally speculated that attempts to suppress stereotype-related thoughts lead to anxiety and the narrowing of attention. This could contribute to the observed deficits in performance. In 2008, Toni Schmader, Michael Johns, and Chad Forbes published an integrated model of stereotype threat that focused on three interrelated factors:\nSchmader et al. suggest that these three factors summarize the pattern of evidence that has been accumulated by past experiments on stereotype threat. For example, stereotype threat has been shown to disrupt working memory and executive function, increase arousal, increase self-consciousness about one's performance, and cause individuals to try to suppress negative thoughts as well as negative emotions such as anxiety. People have a limited amount of cognitive resources available. When a large portion of these resources are spent focusing on anxiety and performance pressure, the individual is likely to perform worse on the task at hand.\n\nA number of studies looking at physiological and neurological responses support Schmader and colleagues' integrated model of the processes that produce stereotype threat. Supporting an explanation in terms of stress arousal, one study found that African Americans under stereotype threat exhibit larger increases in arterial blood pressure. One study found increased cardiovascular activation amongst women who watched a video in which men outnumbered women at a math and science conference. Other studies have similarly found that individuals under stereotype threat display increased heart rates. Stereotype threat may also activate a neuroendocrine stress response, as measured by increased levels of cortisol while under threat. The physiological reactions that are induced by stereotype threat can often be subconscious, and can distract and interrupt cognitive focus from the task.\n\nWith regard to performance monitoring and vigilance, studies of brain activity have supported the idea that stereotype threat increases both of these processes. Forbes and colleagues recorded electroencephalogram (EEG) signals that measure electrical activity along the scalp, and found that individuals experiencing stereotype threat were more vigilant for performance-related stimuli.\n\nAnother study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate brain activity associated with stereotype threat. The researchers found that women experiencing stereotype threat while taking a math test showed heightened activation in the ventral stream of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), a neural region thought to be associated with social and emotional processing. Wraga and colleagues found that women under stereotype threat showed increased activation in the ventral ACC and that the amount of this activation predicted performance decrements on the task. When individuals were made aware of performance-related stimuli, they were more likely to experience stereotype threat.\n\nA study conducted by Boucher, Rydell, Loo, and Rydell has shown that stereotype threat not only affects performance, but can also affect the ability to learn new information. In the study, undergraduate men and women had a session of learning followed by an assessment of what they learned. Some participants were given information intended to induce stereotype threat, and some of these participants were later given \"gender fair\" information, which it was predicted would reduce or remove stereotype threat. As a result, participants were split into four separate conditions: control group, stereotype threat only, stereotype threat removed before learning, and stereotype threat removed after learning. The results of the study showed that the women who were presented with the \"gender fair\" information performed better on the math related test than the women who were not presented with this information. This study also showed that it was more beneficial to women for the \"gender fair\" information to be presented prior to learning rather than after learning. These results suggest that eliminating stereotype threat prior to taking mathematical tests can help women perform better, and that eliminating stereotype threat prior to mathematical learning can help women learn better.\n\nDecreased performance is the most recognized consequence of stereotype threat. However, research has also shown that stereotype threat can cause individuals to blame themselves for perceived failures, self-handicap, discount the value and validity of performance tasks, distance themselves from negatively stereotyped groups, and disengage from situations that are perceived as threatening.\n\nIn the long run, the chronic experience of stereotype threat may lead individuals to disidentify with the stereotyped group. For example, a woman may stop seeing herself as \"a math person\" after experiencing a series of situations in which she experienced stereotype threat. This disidentification is thought to be a psychological coping strategy to maintain self-esteem in the face of failure. Repeated exposure to anxiety and nervousness can lead individuals to choose to distance themselves from the stereotyped group.\n\nAlthough much of the research on stereotype threat has examined the effects of coping with negative stereotype on academic performance, recently there has been an emphasis on how coping with stereotype threat could \"spillover\" to dampen self-control and thereby affect a much broader category of behaviors, even in non-stereotyped domains. Research by Michael Inzlicht and colleagues suggest that, when women cope with negative stereotypes about their math ability, they perform worse on math tests, and that, after completing the math test, women may continue to show deficits even in unrelated domains. For example, women might overeat, be more aggressive, make more risky decisions, and show less endurance during physical exercise.\n\nThe perceived discrimination associated with stereotype threat can also have negative long-term consequences on individuals' mental health. Perceived discrimination has been extensively investigated in terms of its effects on mental health, with a particular emphasis on depression. Cross-sectional studies involving diverse minority groups, including those relating to internalized racism, have found that individuals who experience more perceived discrimination are more likely to exhibit depressive symptoms. Additionally, perceived discrimination has also been found to predict depressive symptoms in children and adolescents. Other negative mental health outcomes associated with perceived discrimination include a reduced general well-being, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, and rebellious behavior. A meta-analysis conducted by Pascoe and Smart Richman has shown that the strong link between perceived discrimination and negative mental health persists even after controlling for factors such as education, socioeconomic status, and employment.\n\nAdditional research seeks ways to boost the test scores and academic achievement of students in negatively stereotyped groups. There are many ways to combat the effects of stereotype threat.\n\n\nThe stereotype threat explanation of achievement gaps has attracted criticism. According to Paul R. Sackett, Chaitra M. Hardison, and Michael J. Cullen, both the media and scholarly literature have wrongly concluded that eliminating stereotype threat could completely eliminate differences in test performance between European Americans and African Americans. Sackett et al. have pointed out that, in Steele and Aronson's (1995) experiments where stereotype threat was removed, an achievement gap of approximately one standard deviation remained between the groups, which is very close in size to that routinely reported between African American and European Americans' average scores on large-scale standardized tests such as the SAT. In subsequent correspondence between Sackett et al. and Steele and Aronson, Sackett et al. wrote that \"They [Steele and Aronson] agree that it is a misinterpretation of the Steele and Aronson (1995) results to conclude that eliminating stereotype threat eliminates the African American-White test-score gap.\"\n\nArthur R. Jensen criticised stereotype threat theory on the basis that it invokes an additional mechanism to explain effects which could be, according to him, explained by other, well-known, and well-established theories, such as test anxiety and especially the Yerkes–Dodson law. In Jensen's view, the effects which are attributed to stereotype threat may simply reflect \"the interaction of ability level with test anxiety as a function of test complexity\". However Diamond \"et al\" state \"that one problem with the Yerkes-Dodson law is that it invokes an ill-defined distinction between 'simple' versus 'complex' tasks.\" They further articulate that, \"Yerkes and Dodson may have the dubious distinction to be the most highly cited, but largely unread, paper in the history of science.\"\n\nIn 2009, Wei examined real-world testing over a broad population (rather than lab assessments with questionable external validity), and found a reverse stereotype threat: a randomly assigned question actually raised female students' scores by 0.05 standard deviations. An earlier experiment with Advanced Placement exams found no effects that were 'practically significant,' but does show 'statistically significant' effect.\n\nGijsbert Stoet and David C. Geary reviewed the evidence for the stereotype threat explanation of the achievement gap in mathematics between men and women. They concluded that the relevant stereotype threat research has many methodological problems, such as not having a control group, and that the stereotype threat literature on this topic misrepresents itself as \"well established\". They concluded that the evidence is in fact very weak.\n\nThe strength and type of the effect has also been questioned. Flore and Wicherts concluded the reported effect is small, but also that the field is inflated by publication bias. They argue that, correcting for this, the most likely true effect size is near zero (see meta-analytic plot, highlighting both the restriction of large effect to low-powered studies, and the plot asymmetry which occurs when publication bias is active).\n\nEarlier meta-analyses reached similar conclusions. For instance, Ganley et al. (2013) examined math stereotype threat in a well-powered (total N ~ 1000) multi-experiment study. This allowed examination of potential moderators such as age and implicit vs explicit methods. Significant gender differences in math were found, but \"no evidence that the mathematics performance of school-age girls was impacted by stereotype threat\" was found. Further, they found that evidence for stereotype threat in children reflects publication bias: large, well-controlled studies find smaller or non-significant effects, while among the many underpowered studies run, researchers selectively published those in which false-positive effects reached significance:\n\nnonsignificant findings were almost always reported in an article along with some significant stereotype threat effects found either at another age (Ambady et al., 2001; Muzzatti & Agnoli, 2007), only with certain students (Keller, 2007), on certain items (Keller, 2007; Neuville & Croizet, 2007), or in certain contexts (Huguet & Regner, 2007, Study 2; Picho & Stephens, 2012; Tomasetto et al., 2011). Importantly, none of the three unpublished dissertations showed a stereotype threat effect. This observation suggests the possibility that publication bias is occurring. Publication bias refers to the fact that studies with null results are often not written up for publication or accepted for publication (Begg, 1994). This bias is a serious concern, especially if these results are being used to make recommendations for interventions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1671205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1671205", "title": "Tetrasodium pyrophosphate", "text": "Tetrasodium pyrophosphate\n\nTetrasodium pyrophosphate, also called sodium pyrophosphate, tetrasodium phosphate or TSPP, is a colorless transparent crystalline chemical compound with the formula NaPO. It is a salt composed of pyrophosphate and sodium ions. Toxicity is approximately twice that of table salt when ingested orally. There is also a hydrated form, NaPO10(HO).\n\nTetrasodium pyrophosphate is used as a buffering agent, an emulsifier, a dispersing agent, and a thickening agent, and is often used as a food additive. Common foods containing tetrasodium pyrophosphate include chicken nuggets, marshmallows, pudding, crab meat, imitation crab, canned tuna, and soy-based meat alternatives and cat foods and cat treats where it is used as a palatability enhancer. \n\nIn toothpaste and dental floss, tetrasodium pyrophosphate acts as a tartar control agent, serving to remove calcium and magnesium from saliva and thus preventing them from being deposited on teeth. Tetrasodium pyrophosphate is used in commercial dental rinses before brushing to aid in plaque reduction.\n\nTetrasodium pyrophosphate is sometimes used in household detergents to prevent similar deposition on clothing, but due to its phosphate content it causes eutrophication of water, promoting algae growth.\n\nTetrasodium pyrophosphate is produced by the reaction of furnace-grade phosphoric acid with sodium carbonate to form disodium phosphate, which is then heated to 450 °C to form tetrasodium pyrophosphate.\n\nAlternatively, it can be created by the molecular dehydration of dibasic sodium phosphate at .\n"}
{"id": "27437917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27437917", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1209", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1209\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 1209, adopted unanimously on 19 November 1998, after recalling resolutions 1170 (1998) and 1196 (1998) on Africa, the Council addressed illicit arms flows on the continent.\n\nThe Security Council considered further a report by the Secretary-General Kofi Annan on the situation in Africa concerning the importance of stemming illegal arms flows. It recognised that illegal arms traffic was closely connected to the role of commercial and political interests. African countries did had the right to obtain weapons for reasons of national security and policing. Switzerland had offered to hold a conference in Geneva on illegal arms traffic and there were negotiations in Vienna on the elaboration of an international convention against transnational organised crime, including a protocol to combat illicit manufacturing and trafficking in firearms. The Council commended African initiatives to address the problem of arms flows, uch as in Mali and Mozambique, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC).\n\nThe Security Council was concerned about large-scale illegal arms trafficking in Africa, particularly of small arms and the threat it posed to security, development and humanitarian situation on the continent. In this regard, African countries were urged to introduce legislation on the use of arms. Member States, particularly those that manufactured weapons, were reminded of the importance of restricting arms transfers which could provoke or prolong armed conflicts. The resolution encouraged African states to participate in the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and to establish regional and subregional registers to enhance the transparency of arms transfers. They were also instructed to look to the European Union and Organization of American States for their efforts in tackling the arms trade and to adopt similar measures.\n\nIn addition, the Secretary-General was encouraged to find ways to identify international arms dealers acting in contravention of national legislation or arms embargoes imposed by the United Nations. He was also urged to promote co-operation among Member States, to explore ways of disseminating information on arms flows and their destabilising effects and to implement voluntary weapons collection programmes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180708", "title": "Viceroy", "text": "Viceroy\n\nA viceroy () is an official who runs a country, colony, city, province, or sub-national state, in the name of and as the representative of the monarch of the territory. The term derives from the Latin prefix \"vice-\", meaning \"in the place of\" and the French word \"roy\", meaning \"king\". A viceroy's territory may be called a viceroyalty, though this term is not always applied. The adjective form is viceregal, less often viceroyal. The term vicereine is sometimes used to indicate a female viceroy \"suo jure\", although viceroy can serve as a gender-neutral term. Vicereine is more commonly used to indicate a viceroy's wife.\n\n\"Viceroy\" is a form of royal appointment rather than noble rank. An individual viceroy often also held a noble title, however, such as Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma who was also Viceroy of India.\n\nThe title was originally used by the Crown of Aragon; where beginning in the 14th century, it referred to the Spanish governors of Sardinia and Corsica. After the unification, at the end of the 15th century, later kings of Spain came to appoint numerous viceroys to rule over various parts of the increasingly vast Spanish Empire in Europe, the Americas, and overseas elsewhere.\n\nIn Europe, until the 18th century, the Habsburg crown appointed viceroys of Aragon, Valencia, Catalonia, Navarre, Portugal, Sardinia, Sicily, and Naples. With the ascension of the House of Bourbon to the Spanish throne, the historic Aragonese viceroyalties were replaced by new captaincies general. At the end of War of the Spanish Succession, the Spanish monarchy was shorn of its Italian possessions. These Italian territories, however, continued to have viceroys under their new rulers for some time; Sardinia would have a viceroy until 1848.\n\n\nThe Americas were incorporated into the Crown of Castile. With the Spanish colonization of the Americas, the institution of viceroys was adapted to govern the highly populated and wealthy regions of the north overseas: New Spain (Mexico and Philippines) and the south overseas: Peru and South America. The viceroys of these two areas had oversight over the other provinces, with most of the North American, Central American, Caribbean and East Indian areas supervised by the viceroy in Mexico City and the South American ones by the viceroy in Lima, (with the exception of most of today's Venezuela, which was overseen by the high court, or Audiencia of Santo Domingo on the island of Hispaniola for most of the colonial period). These large administrative territories became known as \"Viceroyalties\" (Spanish term: \"Virreinatos\"). There were only two New World viceroyalties until the 18th century, when the new Bourbon Dynasty established two additional viceroyalties to promote economic growth and new settlements on South America. New viceroyalties were created for New Granada in 1717 (capital, Bogotá) and the Río de la Plata in 1776 (capital, Buenos Aires).\n\nThe viceroyalties of the Spanish Americas and the Spanish East Indies were subdivided into smaller, autonomous units, the Audiencias (tribunal with the authority to judge), and the Captaincies General (military districts), which in most cases became the bases for the independent countries of modern Hispanic America. These units gathered the local provinces which could be governed by either a crown official, a corregidor (sometimes \"alcalde mayor\") or by a cabildo or town council. Audiencias primarily functioned as superior judicial tribunals, but unlike their European counterparts, the New World audiencias were granted by law both administrative and legislative powers. Captaincies General were primarily military districts set up in areas with a risk of foreign or Indian attack, but the captains general were usually given political powers over the provinces under their command. Because the long distances to the viceregal capital would hamper effective communication, both audiencias and captains general were authorized to communicate directly with the crown through the Council of the Indies. The Bourbon Reforms introduced the new office of the intendant, which was appointed directly by the crown and had broad fiscal and administrative powers in political and military issues.\n\nSee also:\n\nThe title of Viceroy being awarded to members of the nobility, Viceroys, Governors and Governing Commissions were many times interleaved until the last Viceroy Afonso, Prince Royal of Portugal, in 1896.\nFrom 1505 to 1896 Portuguese India – the name \"India\" and the official name \"Estado da India\" (\"State of India\") including all Portuguese possessions in the Indian Ocean, from southern Africa to Southeast Asia and Australasia, until 1752- was governed either by a Viceroy (Portuguese \"Vice-Rei\") or Governor from its headquarters, in Goa since 1510. The government started six years after the discovery of sea route to India by Vasco da Gama, in 1505, under first Viceroy Francisco de Almeida (b.1450–d.1510). Initially, King Manuel I of Portugal tried a power distribution with three governors in different areas of jurisdiction: a government covering the area and possessions in East Africa, Arabian Peninsula and Persian Gulf, overseeing up Cambay (Gujarat); a second one ruling the possessions in India (Hindustan) and Ceylon, and a third one from Malacca to the Far East. However the post was centered by governor Afonso de Albuquerque (1509–1515), who became plenipotentiary, and remained so. The duration in office was usually three years, possibly longer, given the power represented: of the thirty-four governors of India in the 16th century, only six had longer mandates.\n\nDuring some periods of the Iberian Union, between 1580 and 1640, the King of Spain, who was also King of Portugal, appointed Viceroys to govern Portugal itself, as the king had multiple realms throughout Europe and delegated his powers to various viceroys.\n\nAfter the end of the Iberian Union in 1640, the governors of Brazil that were members of the Portuguese high nobility started to use the title of Viceroy. Brazil became a permanent Viceroyalty in 1763, when the capital of the State of Brazil (\"Estado do Brasil\") was transferred from Salvador to Rio de Janeiro.\n\nFollowing adoption of the Government of India Act 1858, which transferred control of India from the British East India Company to the British Crown, the Governor-General as representing the Crown became known as the Viceroy. The designation \"Viceroy,\" although it was most frequently used in ordinary parlance, had no statutory authority, and was never employed by Parliament. Although the Proclamation of 1858 announcing the assumption of the government of India by the Crown referred to Lord Canning as \"first Viceroy and Governor-General,\" none of the Warrants appointing his successors referred to them as \"viceroys,\" and the title, which was frequently used in warrants dealing with precedence and in public notifications, was basically one of ceremony used in connection with the state and social functions of the sovereign's representative. The Governor-General continued to be the sole representative of the Crown, and the Government of India continued to be vested in the Governor-General-in-Council.\n\nThe viceroys reported directly to the Secretary of State for India in London and were advised by the Council of India. They were largely unencumbered in the exercise of their authority and were among the most powerful men on earth in the Victorian and Edwardian eras, ruling over an entire subcontinent with a large military force at their disposal in the form of the British Indian Army. Under the terms of the Government of India Act 1919, viceroys shared some limited aspects of their authority with the Central Legislative Assembly, one of the first steps in the establishment of Indian home rule. This process was accelerated by the Government of India Act 1935 and ultimately led to the independence of India and Pakistan as dominions in 1947. Both countries finally severed complete ties with Britain when they became republics – India as a secular republic in 1950 and Pakistan as an Islamic republic in 1956.\n\nAlongside the Commander-in-Chief, India, the viceroy was the public face of the British presence in India, attending to many ceremonial functions as well as political affairs. As the representative of the Emperors and Empresses of India, who were also the kings and queens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, the viceroy served as the grand master of the two principal chivalric orders of British India: the Order of the Star of India and the Order of the Indian Empire.\n\nDuring the office's history, the Governors-General of India were based in two cities: Calcutta during the 19th century and New Delhi during the 20th century. Additionally, whilst Calcutta was the capital of British India, the viceroys spent the summer months at Simla. The two historic residences of the viceroys still stand: the Viceroy's House in New Delhi and Government House in Calcutta. They are used today as the official residences of the President of India and the Governor of West Bengal, respectively. The portraits of the Governors-General still hang in a room on the ground floor of the Presidential Palace, one of the last vestiges of both the viceroys and the British Raj.\n\nNotable Governors-General of India include Warren Hastings, Lord Cornwallis, Lord Curzon, The Earl of Minto, Lord Chelmsford, and Lord Mountbatten. Lord Mountbatten served as the last Viceroy of British India, but continued on as the first Governor-General of the dominion of India.\nThe Lords Lieutenant of Ireland were often referred to as \"Viceroy\" after 1700 until 1922, even though the Kingdom of Ireland had been merged in 1801 into the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\nThe term has occasionally been applied to the governors-general of the Commonwealth Realms, for example Gough Whitlam in 1973 told the Australian House of Representatives: 'The Governor-General is the viceroy of the Queen of Australia'.\n\nThe governor general of Canada, the lieutenant governors of the Canadian provinces and the governors-general of Australia and governors of the Australian states are viceroys in terms of the Balfour Declaration of 1926. The Australia Act 1986 also provide that all royal powers in Australia, except the actual appointment of the governor-general and the governors are exercisable by the viceregal representatives. The noun 'viceroy' is rarely used but the adjective 'viceregal' is standard usage. \n\nNamestnik (, ) was an office position in the history of the Russian Empire. It can be translated as \"viceroy\", \"deputy\", \"lieutenant\" (the broader sense of that word) or literally \"in place appointee\". The term has two periods of usage, with different meanings. Namestnik replaced the obsolete position of voyevoda (ruler of krai or uyezd) by Peter I.\n\n\nThe Tsar Paul I's 1799 formation of the Russian-American Company obviated viceroys in the colonization of the northwestern New World.\n\nNew France, in present Canada, after a single Governor (24 July 1534 – 15 January 1541 Jacques Cartier) had Lieutenants-general and Viceroys 15 January 1541 – September 1543 Jean François de la Rocquet, sieur de Robervalle ( 1500 – 1560), after September 1543 – 3 January 1578 Abandonment again 3 January 1578 – February 1606 Troilus de Mesgouez, marquis de la Roche-Mesgouez (died 1606) (viceroy and from 12 January 1598, lieutenant-general), February 1606 – 1614 Jean de Biencourt, sieur de Poutrincourt, baron de St. Just (1557–1615); next a series of \"Viceroys\" (resident in France) 8 October 1611 – 1672, later Governors and Governors-general.\n\nIn Italian \"Viceré\": The highest colonial representatives in the \"federation\" of Italian East Africa (six provinces, each under a governor; together Ethiopia, Eritrea and Italian Somaliland) were no longer styled \"High Commissioner\", but \"Viceroy and Governor-general\" from 5 May 1936, when Italian forces occupied Ethiopia, until 27 November 1941, when the last Italian administrator surrendered to the Allies. The Italian King Victor Emmanuel claimed the title of \"Emperor of Ethiopia\" (Nəgusä nägäst, \"King of Kings\") and declared himself to be a successor to the Nəgusä nägäst, even though Emperor Haile Selassie I continued to hold this title while in exile, and resumed his actual, physical throne on 5 May 1941.\n\nOn 7 April 1939, Italy invaded the Kingdom of Albania (today Albania). As Viceré of Albania of Victor Emmanuel III of Italy were the Marchese Francesco Jacomoni di San Savino and after his departure General Alberto Pariani.\n\nBan Borić was the first ruler and Viceroy of Bosnia, appointed by Géza II of Hungary by 1154. His war affairs are documented as he fought several notable battles. He also maintained ties with knights Templar and donated lands in Bosnia and Slavonia to their Order. His own biological brother Dominic was on record as a knight Templar.\n\nFrom the earliest medieval period in the Kingdom of Croatia, the position of viceroy was held by Ban of Croatia who acted as king's representative in Croatian lands and supreme commander of Croatian army. In the 18th century, Croatian bans eventually become chief government officials in Croatia. They were at the head of Ban's Government, effectively the first prime ministers of Croatia. The last ban held his position until 1941 and the collapse of Yugoslavia in World War II.\n\nAn equivalent office, called the Exarch, was created in the Byzantine or Eastern Roman Empire towards the end of the sixth century for governors of important areas too far from the imperial capital of Constantinople to receive regular instruction or reinforcement. The chosen governors of these provinces were empowered to act in place of the monarch (hence ex-arch) with more discretion and autonomy than was granted other categories of governor. This was an extraordinary break from the centralized traditions of the Roman Empire and was an early example of the principle of Viceroyalty.\n\nAs with many princely and administrative titles, viceroy is often used, generally unofficially, to render somewhat equivalent titles and offices in non-western cultures.\n\nIn cultures all over the continent of Africa, the role of viceroy has been subsumed into a hereditary noble as opposed to strictly administrative position. In the Arabo-Berber north, for example, the title of Khalifa is often used by individuals who derive their authority to rule from someone else in much the same way as a viceroy would. Elsewhere, subordinate inkosis under the rule of a paramount chief like the King of the Zulu Nation of Southern Africa or subordinate baales in the realms of the reigning obas of West African Yorubaland continue to occupy statutorily recognized positions in the contemporary countries of South Africa and Nigeria as the customary representatives of their respective principals in the various areas that are under their immediate control.\n\nMarathas from the time of Shivaji sent various empire insiders to run foreign parts such as Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madya Pradesh and Andra Paradesh, where the Maratha empire extended.\n\nThe Khedive of Egypt, especially during the reign of Muhammad Ali Pasha (1805–1848). This officer established an almost autonomous regime in Egypt, which officially still was under Ottoman rule. Although Mehemet Ali/Muhammad Ali used different symbols to mark his independence from the Sublime Porte, he never openly declared himself independent. Adopting the title of viceroy was yet another way to walk the thin line between challenging the Sultan's power explicitly and respecting his jurisdiction. Muhammad Ali Pasha's grandson, Ismail Pasha, subsequently received the title of Khedive which was almost an equivalent to viceroy.\n\nThe post of Tổng Trấn (\"governor of all military provinces\") was a political post in the early period of the Vietnamese Nguyễn Dynasty (1802–1830). From 1802, under the reign of emperor Gia Long, there were two \"Tổng Trấn\" who administered Vietnam's northern part named Bắc thành with administrative center in Hanoi and the southern part Gia Định thành with administrative center in Gia Định, while Nguyen emperors ruled only the central region Kinh Kỳ from capital Phú Xuân. \"Tổng Trấn\" is sometimes translated to English as viceroy. In 1830, emperor Minh Mạng abolished the post in order to increase the imperial direct ruling power in all over Vietnam.\n\nDuring the Han, Ming and Qing dynasties, there existed positions of viceroys having control over various provinces (e.g., Liangguang = Guangdong and Guangxi, Huguang = Hubei and Hunan).\n\nIn Siam before 1885, the title was used for the heir-apparent or heir presumptive (Thai: กรมพระราชวังบวรสถานมงคล) The title was abolished and replaced with that of the Crown Prince of Siam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "893821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=893821", "title": "Western Somali Liberation Front", "text": "Western Somali Liberation Front\n\nThe Western Somali Liberation Front (; abbreviated WSLF) was a separatist rebel group fighting in eastern Ethiopia to create an independent state. It played a major role in the Ogaden War of 1977-78 assisting the invading Somali Army.\n\nSomali guerrilla activity in the Ogaden and in the Haud area east of Harar flared sporadically after Somalia gained its independence in 1960, but the guerrilla activity remained essentially a police concern until a border war erupted in 1964. When he seized power in Mogadishu in 1969, Siad Barre thwarted attempts at an understanding between Ethiopia and Somalia. He pledged to renew efforts to establish a \"Greater Somalia\" that would encompass about one-third of Ethiopia's territory. Encouraged by the breakdown of authority in Addis Ababa after the 1974 overthrow of Haile Selassie, Somalia provided equipment, as well as moral and organizational support to insurgent movements in the Ogaden and southern Ethiopia.\n\nThe WSLF was founded by a young captain called Yusuf Dheere Mohamed Sugaal (Yuusuf the tall man) who was educated and trained in Syria, after finishing high school in Hargeisa. Upon his return from Syria, Yusuf Dheere has created the \"Ururka Dhalinyara Soomaali Galbeed\" or the Western Somali Youth Organization. Yusuf Dheere, who was well connected and from a noble family, met the Somali president Siad Barre in 1973 after putting the Somali elders behind his plan, and convinced the Somali President to do something about the Ogaden region. So Siad Barre gave Yusuf Dheere 2 years to give diplomacy a chance and to prepare the Somali National Army, for it was still unproven. In the meanwhile, Yusuf Dheere was told to recruit about 1500 volunteers and was permitted rations for only 1500 people; in the space of a month, he recruited over 3000 soldiers, most of them were old fighters from all over the country.\n\nTwo years after the initial meeting, and after going through the UN and unsuccessful peace meeting with Emperor Haile Selassie, Yusuf Dheere was given the go ahead he wanted and was told to get control of at least 60% of the Ogaden region before the Somali army would involve itself in the fighting. The WSLF found its opportunity when the Derg overthrew Haile Selassie in 1974, and switched from American support to the Soviet Union. Two years later, when the WSLF had control of most of the Ogaden, the first time since the Second World War that all Somalia was united with the exception of the NFD region in Kenya.\n\nThe WSLF was supported in its rebellion by the Somali Abo Liberation Front (SALF), whose sphere of operations was in the provinces of Bale, Sidamo, and Arsi, where it advocated union with Somalia or the creation of an independent state. Somalia equipped both groups with Soviet arms, and later with the Somali Army. Both groups also received aid and training from various Arab and socialist states, including Cuba.\n\nAlthough the Ethiopian army outnumbered the Somalis by at least 3 to 1, the Somali army had much more air-superiority than the Ethiopians and was much better equipped. However, after massive Soviet support stopped and the United States did not accept the military support that Somalia had requested, the WSLF was forced later to retreat to camps in Somalia Proper after Soviet-supported and Cuban-armed Ethiopian and Cuban soldiers pushed back the WSLF and the Somali Army.\n\nThe Somali government subsequently forbade the WSLF and its leaders to use its territory to launch attacks into Ethiopia. By 1989 the WSLF had ceased to be an effective guerrilla organization within Ethiopia. Siad Barre's decision to restrict the WSLF, led to the exile of Yusuf Dheere in 1989 and to the formation of a WSLF splinter group, the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF), whose headquarters were in Kuwait. Elements of the ONLF slipped back into the Ogaden in 1988, where they still operate. However, not everyone was happy with the ONLF because of its name (Ogaden rather than Somali), therefore many of the original WSLF supporters formed the United Western Somali Front which also includes some former ONLF members.\n\n\"Source: U.S. Library of Congress\"\n"}
{"id": "42480018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42480018", "title": "Zersetzung", "text": "Zersetzung\n\nZersetzung (German; variously translated as \"decomposition, corrosion, undermining, biodegradation\" or \"dissolution\") is a psychological warfare technique that was first used by Nazi Germany as part of the accusation Wehrkraft\"zersetzung\" against political opponents (which typically resulted in death penalties). Decades later, during the Honecker era, the Stasi, the East German secret police used the accusation \"Zersetzung\" to silence political opponents by repression.\n\nThe \"measures of \"Zersetzung\"\", defined in the framework of a directive on police procedures in 1976, were used in the context of so-called \"operational procedures\" (in German \"Operative Vorgänge\" or \"OV\"). They replaced the overt terror of the Ulbricht era.\n\nThe practice of repression in \"Zersetzung\" comprised extensive and secret methods of control and psychological manipulation, including personal relationships of the target, for which the Stasi relied on its network of informal collaborators, (in German \"inoffizielle Mitarbeiter\" or \"IM\"), the State's power over institutions, and on operational psychology. Using targeted psychological attacks the Stasi tried to deprive a dissident of any chance of a \"hostile action\".\n\nThe use of \"Zersetzung\" is well documented due to numerous Stasi files published after East Germany's Wende. Several thousands or up to 10,000 individuals are estimated to have become victims, 5,000 of whom sustained irreversible damage. Pensions for restitution have been created for the victims.\n\nThe Stasi, or Ministry for State Security (German: Ministerium für Staatssicherheit, MfS) by its full name, defined \"Zersetzung\" in its 1985 dictionary of political operatives as \n\nDuring its first decade of existence, the German Democratic Republic (GDR) subdued political opponents primarily through the penal code, by accusing them of incitement to war or of calls of boycott. To counteract the international isolation of the GDR following the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961, judicial terror was abandoned. From the start of the Erich Honecker era in 1971 in particular, the Stasi intensified its efforts to punish dissident behaviors without using the penal code. Important motives were the GDR's desire for international recognition, and for rapprochement with West Germany, at the end of the 1960s. In fact the GDR was committed to adhere to the U.N. Charter and the Helsinki accords, as well as the Basic Treaty, 1972, signed with the Federal Republic of Germany, to respect human rights, or at least announce its intention to do so. Consequently, the regime of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany decided to reduce the number of political prisoners, which was compensated for by practising repression without imprisonment or court judgements.\n\nThe Stasi used \"Zersetzung\" essentially as a means of psychological oppression and persecution. Findings of operational psychology were formulated into method at the Stasi's College of Law (\"Juristische Hochschule der Staatssicherheit\", or \"JHS\"), and applied to political opponents in an effort to undermine their self-confidence and self-esteem. Operations were designed to intimidate and destabilise them by subjecting them to repeated disappointment, and to socially alienate them by interfering with and disrupting their relationships with others as in social undermining. The aim was to induce personal crises in victims, leaving them too unnerved and psychologically distressed to have the time and energy for anti-government activism. The Stasi intentionally concealed their role as mastermind of the operations. Author Jürgen Fuchs was a victim of \"Zersetzung\" and wrote about his experience, describing the Stasi's actions as \"psychosocial crime\", and \"an assault on the human soul\".\n\nAlthough its techniques had been established effectively by the late 1950s, \"Zersetzung\" was not rigorously defined until the mid-1970s, and only then began to be carried out in a systematic manner in the 1970s and 1980s. It is difficult to determine how many people were targeted, since the sources have been deliberately and considerably redacted; it is known, however, that tactics varied in scope, and that a number of different departments implemented them. Overall there was a ratio of four or five authorised \"Zersetzung\" operators for each targeted group, and three for each individual. Some sources indicate that around 5,000 people were \"persistently victimised\" by \"Zersetzung\". At the College of Legal Studies, the number of dissertations submitted on the subject of \"Zersetzung\" was in double figures. It also had a comprehensive 50-page \"Zersetzung\" teaching manual, which included numerous examples of its practice.\n\nAlmost all Stasi departments were involved in \"Zersetzung\" operations, although first and foremost amongst these was the headquarters of the Stasi's directorate XX (\"Hauptabteilung XX\") in Berlin, and its divisional offices in regional and municipal government. The function of the headquarters and \"Abteilung XX\"s was to maintain surveillance of religious communities; cultural and media establishments; alternative political parties; the GDR's many political establishment-affiliated mass social organisations; sport; and education and health services - effectively covering all aspects of civic life. The Stasi made use of the means available to them within, and as a circumstance of, the GDR's closed social system. An established, politically motivated collaborative network (\"politisch-operatives Zusammenwirken\", or \"POZW\") provided them with extensive opportunities for interference in such situations as the sanctioning of professionals and students, expulsion from associations and sports clubs, and occasional arrests by the \"Volkspolizei\" (the GDR's quasi-military national police). Refusal of permits for travel to socialist states, or denial of entry at Czechoslovakian and Polish border crossings where no visa requirement existed, were also arranged. The various collaborators (\"Partnern des operativen Zusammenwirkens\") included branches of regional government, university and professional management, housing administrative bodies, the \"Sparkasse\" public savings bank, and in some cases head physicians. The Stasi's \"Linie III\" (\"Observation\"), \"Abteilung 2\"6 (Telephone and room surveillance) and \"M\" (Postal communications) departments provided essential background information for the designing of \"Zersetzung\" techniques, with \"Abteilung 32\" procuring the required technology.\n\nThe Stasi collaborated with the secret services of other Eastern Bloc countries to implement \"Zersetzung\". One such example was the Polish secret services co-operating against branches of the Jehovah's Witnesses organisation in the early 1960s, which would come to be known as \"innere Zersetzung\" (internal subversion).\n\nThe Stasi applied \"Zersetzung\" before, during, after, or instead of incarcerating the targeted individual. The implementation of \"Zersetzung\" — euphemistically called \"Operativer Vorgang\" (\"operational procedure\") – generally did not aim to gather evidence against the target in order to initiate criminal proceedings. Rather, the Stasi considered \"Zersetzung\" as a separate measure to be used when official judiciary procedures were undesirable for political reasons, such as the international image of the GDR. However, in certain cases, the Stasi did attempt to entrap individuals, as for example in the case of Wolf Biermann: The Stasi set him up with minors, hoping that they could then pursue criminal charges. The crimes targeted for such entrapment were non-political, such as drug possession, trafficking, theft, financial fraud, and rape.\n\nDirective 1/76 lists the following as tried and tested forms of \"Zersetzung\", among others:\n\nBeginning with intelligence obtained by espionage, the Stasi established \"sociograms\" and \"psychograms\" which it applied for the psychological forms of \"Zersetzung\". They exploited personal traits, such as homosexuality, as well as supposed character weaknesses of the targeted individual — for example a professional failure, negligence of parental duties, pornographic interests, divorce, alcoholism, dependence on medications, criminal tendencies, passion for a collection or a game, or contacts with circles of the extreme right — or even the veil of shame from the rumors poured out upon one's circle of acquaintances. From the point of view of the Stasi, the measures were the most fruitful when they were applied in connection with a personality; all \"schematism\" had to be avoided.\n\nMoreover, methods of \"Zersetzung\" included espionage, overt, hidden, and feigned; opening letters and listening to telephone calls; encroachments on private property; manipulation of vehicles; and even poisoning food and using false medications. Certain collaborators of the Stasi tacitly took into account the suicide of victims of \"Zersetzung\".\n\nIt has not been definitely established that the Stasi used X-rays to provoke long-term health problems in its opponents. That said, Rudolf Bahro, Gerulf Pannach, and Jürgen Fuchs, three important dissidents who had been imprisoned at the same time, died of cancer within an interval of two years. A study by the Federal Commissioner for the Records of the State Security Service of the former GDR (\"Bundesbeauftragte für die Unterlagen des Staatssicherheitsdienstes der ehemaligen Deutschen Demokratischen Republik\" or \"BStU\") has meanwhile rejected on the basis of extant documents such as fraudulent use of X-rays, and only mentions isolated and unintentional cases of the harmful use of sources of radiation, for example to mark documents.\n\nIn the name of the target, the Stasi made little announcements, ordered products, and made emergency calls, to terrorize him/her. To threaten or intimidate or cause psychoses the Stasi assured itself of access to the target's living quarters and left visible traces of its presence, by adding, removing, and modifying objects.\n\nThe Stasi manipulated relations of friendship, love, marriage, and family by anonymous letters, telegrams and telephone calls as well as compromising photos, often altered. In this manner, parents and children were supposed to systematically become strangers to one another. To provoke conflicts and extramarital relations the Stasi put in place targeted seductions by Romeo agents.\n\nFor the \"Zersetzung\" of groups, it infiltrated them with unofficial collaborators, sometimes minors. The work of opposition groups was hindered by permanent counter-propositions and discord on the part of unofficial collaborators when making decisions. To sow mistrust within the group, the Stasi made believe that certain members were unofficial collaborators; moreover by spreading rumors and manipulated photos, the Stasi feigned indiscretions with unofficial collaborators, or placed members of targeted groups in administrative posts to make believe that this was a reward for the activity of an unofficial collaborator. They even aroused suspicions regarding certain members of the group by assigning privileges, such as housing or a personal car. Moreover, the imprisonment of only certain members of the group gave birth to suspicions.\n\nTactics employed under \"Zersetzung\" generally involved the disruption of the victim's private or family life. This often included psychological attacks, such as breaking into homes and subtly manipulating the contents, in a form of gaslighting – moving furniture, altering the timing of an alarm, removing pictures from walls or replacing one variety of tea with another. Other practices included property damage, sabotage of cars, purposely incorrect medical treatment, smear campaigns including sending falsified compromising photos or documents to the victim's family, denunciation, provocation, psychological warfare, psychological subversion, wiretapping, bugging, mysterious phone calls or unnecessary deliveries, even including sending a vibrator to a target's wife.\n\nReturning items from the trash to the home, releasing mice or poisonous snakes (especially those whose poison works on contact and need not be injected) in walls or basements and alluding to topics referenced in tapped phone conversations is also popular, as is filling both the salt and pepper shakers with 'pepper'; (in a controlled or export economy, as in times of economic hardship generally, ersatz pepper is typically made of sawdust-type substitutes such as bark or for example 'winter pepper'; see especially 'witzpulver' but also 'monk's pepper'). Usually, victims had no idea that the Stasi were responsible and indeed, it is probable that they not always were. Many thought that they were losing their minds, and mental breakdowns and suicide could result. The 'dissolution' is likely at least occasionally intended to carry the same connotation as in such uses as 'dissolution of marriage,' 'breakdown of the traditional family unit,' etc. It should perhaps be noted further that no one had a monopoly on monitoring communications, whether in East Germany or anywhere else.\n\nThe Stasi used \"Zersetzung\" tactics on individuals and groups. There was no particular homogeneous target group, as opposition in the GDR came from a number of different sources. Tactical plans were thus separately adapted to each perceived threat. The Stasi nevertheless defined several main target groups:\n\n\nThe Stasi also occasionally used \"Zersetzung\" on non-political organisations regarded as undesirable, such as the Watchtower Society.\n\nProminent individuals targeted by \"Zersetzung\" operations included Jürgen Fuchs, Gerulf Pannach, Rudolf Bahro, Robert Havemann, Rainer Eppelmann, Reiner Kunze, husband and wife Gerd and Ulrike Poppe, and Wolfgang Templin.\n\nOnce aware of his own status as a target, GDR opponent Wolfgang Templin tried, with some success, to bring details of the Stasi's \"Zersetzung\" activities to the attention of western journalists. In 1977 \"Der Spiegel\" published a five-part article series, \"Du sollst zerbrechen!\" (\"You're going to crack!\"), by the exiled Jürgen Fuchs, in which he describes the Stasi's \"operational psychology\". The Stasi tried to discredit Fuchs and the contents of similar articles, publishing in turn claims that he had a paranoid view of its function, and intending that \"Der Spiegel\" and other media would assume he was suffering from a persecution complex. This, however, was refuted by the official Stasi documents examined after \"Die Wende\" (the political power shift in the GDR in 1989-90).\n\nBecause the scale and nature of \"Zersetzung\" were unknown both to the general population of the GDR and to people abroad, revelations of the Stasi's malicious tactics were met with some degree of disbelief by those affected. Many still nowadays express incomprehension at how the Stasi's collaborators could have participated in such inhuman actions.\n\nSince \"Zersetzung\" as a whole, even after 1990, was not deemed to be illegal because of the principle of \"nulla poena sine lege\" (no penalty without law), actions against involvement in either its planning or implementation were not enforceable by the courts. Because this specific legal definition of \"Zersetzung\" as a crime didn't exist, only individual instances of its tactics could be reported. Acts which even according to GDR law were offences (such as the violation of \"Briefgeheimnis\", the secrecy of correspondence) needed to have been reported to the GDR authorities soon after having been committed in order not to be subject to a statute of limitations clause. Many of the victims experienced the additional complication that the Stasi was not identifiable as the originator in cases of personal injury and misadventure. Official documents in which \"Zersetzung\" methods were recorded often had no validity in court, and the Stasi had many files detailing its actual implementation destroyed.\n\nUnless they had been detained for at least 180 days, survivors of \"Zersetzung\" operations, in accordance with §17a of a 1990 rehabilitation act (the \"Strafrechtlichen Rehabilitierungsgesetzes\", or \"StrRehaG\"), are not eligible for financial compensation. Cases of provable, systematically effected targeting by the Stasi, and resulting in employment-related losses and/or health damage, can be pursued under a law covering settlement of torts (\"Unrechtsbereinigungsgesetz\", or \"2. SED-UnBerG\") as claims either for occupational rehabilitation or rehabilitation under administrative law. These overturn certain administrative provisions of GDR institutions and affirm their unconstitutionality. This is a condition for the social equalisation payments specified in the \"Bundesversorgungsgesetz\" (the war victims relief act of 1950). Equalisation payments of pension damages and for loss of earnings can also be applied for in cases where victimisation continued for at least three years, and where claimants can prove need. The above examples of seeking justice have, however, been hindered by various difficulties victims have experienced, both in providing proof of the Stasi's encroachment into the areas of health, personal assets, education and employment, and in receiving official acknowledgement that the Stasi was responsible for personal damages (including psychic injury) as a direct result of \"Zersetzung\" operations.\n\nThroughout the 1960s and 1970s the American FBI came to fully appreciate and utilize Zersetzung against perceived \"subversives\". Martin Luther King was a regular target of public scorn, innuendo and other active measures by Edgar Hoover's FBI.\n\nUnder Vladimir Putin, Russia's security and intelligence agencies were reported to use similar actions against foreign diplomats and journalists in Russia and other ex-USSR states.\n\nIn 2016, Zersetzung-like harassment was reported by the American press as carried out by Russia's secret services against U.S. diplomats posted in Moscow as well as in unspecified \"several other European capitals\"; the U.S. government's efforts to raise the issue with the Kremlin were said to have brought no positive reaction. The Russian Embassy's reply was cited by \"The Washington Post\" as implicitly admitting and defending the harassment as a response to what Russia called U.S. provocations and mistreatment of Russian diplomats in the United States. The Russian Foreign Ministry's spokesperson in turn accused the U.S.' FBI and CIA of provocations and \"psychological pressure\" vis-a-vis the Russian diplomats.\n\n\n\n"}
