{"id": "21687875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687875", "title": "ARPA-E", "text": "ARPA-E\n\nARPA-E, or Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy is a United States government agency tasked with promoting and funding research and development of advanced energy technologies. It is modeled after the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).\n\nThe concept of ARPA-E was initially conceived by a report by the National Academies entitled \"Rising Above the Gathering Storm: Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future\". The report recognized a U.S. need to stimulate innovation and develop clean, affordable, and reliable energy. ARPA-E was officially created by the America COMPETES Act , authored by Congressman Bart Gordon, within the United States Department of Energy (DOE) in 2007, though without a budget. The initial budget of about $400 million was a part of the economic stimulus bill of February 2009.\nThen in early January 2011, the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010 made additional changes to ARPA-E’s structure; this structure is codified in Title 42, Chapter 149, Subchapter XVII, § 16538 of the United States Code.\n\nAmong its main provisions, Section 16538 provides that ARPA-E shall achieve its goals through energy technology projects by doing the following:\n\n\nLike DARPA does for military technology, ARPA-E is intended to fund high-risk, high-reward research that might not otherwise be pursued because there is a relatively high risk of failure. Like DARPA, it is intended to fund projects involving government labs, private industry, and universities. ARPA-E has four objectives:\n\n\nPresident Barack Obama announced the launch of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) on April 27, 2009 as part of an announcement about federal investment in research and development and science education. Soon after its launch, ARPA-E released its first Funding Opportunity Announcement for the new agency, offering $151 million in total with individual awards ranging from $500,000 to $9 million. Applicants submitted eight-page \"concept papers\" that outlined the technical concept; some were invited to submit full applications.\n\nArun Majumdar, former deputy director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, was appointed the first director of ARPA-E in September 2009, over six months after the organization was first funded. \nU.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu presided over the inaugural \"ARPA-E Energy Innovation Summit\" on March 1–3, 2010 in Washington, D.C..\n\n2006\n\nThe National Academies release report, “Rising Above the Gathering Storm”.\n\nAugust 9, 2007\n\nPresident George W. Bush signed into law the America COMPETES Act that codified many of the recommendations in the National Academies report, thus creating ARPA-E.\n\nApril 27, 2009\n\nPresident Barack Obama allocated $400 million in funding to ARPA-E from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.\n\nSeptember 18, 2009\n\nPresident Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate Dr. Arun Majumdar, as Director of ARPA-E.\n\nOctober 22, 2009\n\nSenate confirmed Dr. Arun Majumdar as ARPA-E’s first Director.\n\nOctober 26, 2009\n\nDepartment of Energy awarded $151 million in Recovery Act funds for 37 energy research projects under ARPA-E’s first Funding Opportunity Announcement.\n\nDecember 7, 2009\n\nU.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu announced ARPA-E’s second round of funding opportunities in the areas of “Electrofuels”, “Innovative Materials & Processes for Advanced Carbon Capture Technologies (IMPACCT)” and “Batteries for Electrical Energy Storage in Transportation (BEEST).”\n\nMarch 1 – 3, 2010\n\nARPA-E hosted the inaugural “Energy Innovation Summit,” which attracted over 1,700 participants.\n\nMarch 2, 2010\n\nU.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu announced ARPA-E’s third round of funding opportunity in the areas of “Grid-Scale Rampable Intermittent Dispatchable Storage (GRIDS),” “Agile Delivery of Electrical Power Technology (ADEPT)” and “Building Energy Efficiency Through Innovative Thermodevices (BEET-IT).”\n\nApril 29, 2010\n\nVice President Joe Biden announced 37 awarded projects under ARPA-E’s second funding opportunity.\n\nJuly 12, 2010\n\nDepartment of Energy Awarded $92 Million for 42 cutting-edge research projects under ARPA-E's third funding opportunity.\n\nDecember 8, 2014\n\nEllen Williams confirmed by Senate as Director of ARPA-E.\n\nMarch 16, 2017\n\nPresident Donald Trump's blueprint for the budget proposed to eliminate ARPA-E because it \"provides small grants with limited measurable impacts and duplicates other Federal programs, such as Rural Utilities Service grants at the U.S. Department of Agriculture and formula grants to States from the Department of Transportation.\"\n\nARPA-E was created to fund energy technology projects that translate scientific discoveries and cutting-edge inventions into technological innovations, and accelerate technological advances in high-risk areas that industry is not likely to pursue independently. This goal is similar to the work of the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) which advances clean energy projects according to established roadmaps. ARPA-E does not fund incremental improvements to existing technologies; nor roadmaps established by existing DOE programs.\n\nARPA-E programs are created through a process of rigorous debate surrounding the technical/scientific merits and challenges of potential research areas and must satisfy both concepts of “technology push”—the technical merit of innovative platform technologies that can be applied to energy systems—and “market pull”—the potential market impact and cost-effectiveness of the technology.\n\nThe detailed program creation process begins with a “deep dive”: a process of thoroughly exploring an aspect of the energy problem to identify potential topics for program development. ARPA-E Program Directors then hold technical workshops to gather input from the world’s leading experts about current state-of-the-art technologies and new technological opportunities that lie on the horizon. By bringing together experts from all walks of science, technology, and business, ARPA-E breaks down silos between disciplines. This cross-disciplinary inquiry is essential to bridge the gap between basic and applied \nresearch and development. ARPA-E workshops bring together the best and the brightest to identify technical challenges and opportunities that connect science to technology and markets—linking knowledge of what science is capable of to what technology can achieve and what the market needs. To date, ARPA-E has hosted or co-hosted 13 technical workshops.\n\nFollowing each workshop, the Program Director proposes a new program and defends the program against a set of criteria that justifies its creation. After intense, “constructive confrontation” and debate involving all ARPA-E Program Directors, the Program Director refines the program, incorporating internal and external feedback, and seeks approval from the Director. If successful, a new ARPA-E program is created, and a solicitation, or funding opportunity announcement (FOA), is released, soliciting project proposals.\n\nThe ARPA-E peer review process is designed to help drive toward subsequent program success. During proposal review, ARPA-E solicits external inputs to make sure that it is funding the best technologies. ARPA-E taps the expertise of dozens of the leading experts in the world in a particular field for in-depth proposal reviews. The involvement of world-class scientists, engineers, and leaders from the technical community brings expertise and knowledge to the process. ARPA-E reviewers evaluate applications over several weeks, and \nthen come together for a review panel.\n\nOne notable facet of ARPA-E’s evaluation process is the opportunity for the applicant to read reviewers’ comments and to provide a rebuttal that the Agency reviews before making funding decisions. The applicant response period allows ARPA-E to avoid misunderstandings by asking clarifying questions that enable ARPA-E to make the most informed decisions during the project selection process and identify the most compelling and meritorious ideas for support.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Energy and ARPA-E awarded $151 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds on October 26, 2009 for 37 energy research projects. It supported renewable energy technologies for solar cells, wind turbines, geothermal drilling, biofuels, and biomass energy crops. The grants also supported energy efficiency technologies, including power electronics and engine-generators for advanced vehicles, devices for waste heat recovery, smart glass and control systems for smart buildings, light-emitting diodes (LEDs), reverse-osmosis membranes for water desalination, catalysts to split water into hydrogen and oxygen, improved fuel cell membranes, and more energy-dense magnetic materials for electronic components. Six grants went to energy storage technologies, including an ultracapacitor, improved lithium-ion batteries, metal-air batteries that use ionic liquids, liquid sodium batteries, and liquid metal batteries.\nOther awards went to projects that conducted research and development on a bioreactor with potential to produce gasoline directly from sunlight and carbon dioxide, and crystal growth technology to lower the cost of light emitting diodes.\n\nThe U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu announced a second round of ARPA-E funding opportunities on December 7, 2009. ARPA-E solicited projects that focused on three critical areas: Biofuels from Electricity (Electrofuels), Batteries for Electrical Energy Storage in Transportation (BEEST), and Innovative Materials and Processes for Advanced Carbon Capture Technologies (IMPACCT). On April 29, 2010, Vice President Biden announced the 37 awardees that ARPA-E had selected from over 540 initial concept papers. The awards ranged from around $500,000 to $6,000,000 and involved a large variety of national laboratories, universities, and companies.\n\nUnder the Second Funding Opportunity, project submissions were designated by category, unlike the first funding opportunity; of the selected projects, 13 projects focused on Electrofuels, 10 projects focused on BEEST, and 14 project focused on IMPAACT. For example, Harvard Medical School submitted a project under Eletrofuels entitled, \"Engineering a Bacterial Reverse Fuel Cell,\" which focuses on development of a bacterium to use electricity to convert carbon dioxide into gasoline. MIT received an award under BEEST for a proposal entitled \"Semi-Solid Rechargeable Fuel Battery,\" which is a concept idea for a new battery that combines the best characteristics of rechargeable battery and fuel cells to produce lighter, smaller, and cheaper vehicle batteries. IMPAACT awarded projects such as GE's Global Research Center's \"CO2 Capture Process Using Phase-Changing Absorbents,\" which focuses on a liquid that turns into a solid powder when reacting with carbon dioxide.\n\nOn March 2, 2010, at the inaugural ARPA-E Energy Innovation Summit, U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced a third funding opportunity for ARPA-E projects. Like the second funding opportunity, ARPA-E solicited projects by category: Grid-Scale Rampable Intermittent Dispatchable Storage (GRIDS), Agile Delivery of Electrical Power Technology (ADEPT), and Building Energy Efficiency Through Innovative Thermodevices (BEET-IT). GRIDS welcomed projects that focused on widespread deployment of cost-effective grid-scale energy storage in two specific areas: 1) proof of concept storage component projects focused on validating new, over-the-horizon electrical energy storage concepts, and 2) advanced system prototypes that address critical shortcomings of existing grid-scale energy storage technologies. ADEPT focused on investing in materials for fundamental advances in soft magnetics, high voltage switches, and reliable, high-density charge storage in three categories: 1) fully integrated, chip-scale power converters for applications including, but not limited to, compact, efficient drivers for solid-state lighting, distributed micro-inverters for photovoltaics, and single-chip power supplies for computers, 2) kilowatt scale package integrated power converters by enabling applications such as low-cost, efficient inverters for grid-tied photovoltaics and variable speed motors, and 3) lightweight, solid-state, medium voltage energy conversion for high power applications such as solid-state electrical substations and wind turbine generators. BEET-IT solicited projects regarding energy efficient cooling technologies and air conditioners (AC) for buildings to save energy and reduce GHG emissions in the following areas: 1) cooling systems that use refrigerants with low global warming potential; 2) energy efficient air conditioning (AC) systems for warm and humid climates with an increased coefficient of performance (COP); and 3) vapor compression AC systems for hot climates for re-circulating air loads with an increased COP.\n\nSecretary Chu announced the selection of 43 projects under GRIDS, ADEPT, and BEET-IT on July 12, 2010. The awards totaled $92 million and ranged from $400,000 to $5,000,000. The solicitation distribution included 14 projects in ADEPT, 17 projects in BEET-IT, and 12 projects in GRIDS. Examples of awarded projects include a \"Soluble Acid Lead Flow Battery\" that pumps chemicals through a battery cell when electricity is needed (GRIDS), \"Silicon Carbide Power Modules for Grid Scale Power Conversion\" that uses advanced transistors to make the electrical grid more flexible and controllable (ADEPT), and an \"Absorption-Osmosis Cooling Cycle,\" a new air conditioning system that uses water as a refrigerant, rather than chemicals (BEET-IT).\n\nARPA-E's fourth round of funding was announced on April 20, 2011 and awarded projects in five technology areas: Plants Engineered To Replace Oil (PETRO), High Energy Advanced Thermal Storage (HEATS), Rare Earth Alternatives in Critical Technologies (REACT), Green Electricity Network Integration (GENI), and Solar Agile Delivery of Electrical Power Technology (Solar ADEPT). PETRO focused on projects that had systems to create biofuels from domestic sources such as tobacco and pine trees for half their current cost. REACT funded early-stage technology alternatives that reduced or eliminated the dependence on rare earth materials by developing substitutes in two key areas: electric vehicle motors and wind generators. HEATS funded projects that promoted advancement in thermal energy storage technology. GENI focused on funding software and hardware that could reliably control the grid network. Solar ADEPT accepted projects that integrated power electronics into solar panels and solar farms to extract and deliver energy more efficiently.\n\nThe Awardees for the fourth funding opportunity were announced on September 29, 2011. The 60 projects received $156 million from the ARPA-E Fiscal Year 2011 budget. Examples of the awarded projects included a project that increases the production of turpentine, a natural liquid biofuel (PETRO); a project entitled \"Manganese-Based Permanent Magnet,\" that reduces the cost of wind turbines and electric vehicles by developing a replacement for rare earth magnets based on an innovative composite using manganese materia (REACT); a project entitled \"HybriSol,\" that develops a heat battery to store energy from the sun (HEATS); a project that develops a new system that allows real-time, automated control over the transmission lines that make up the electric power grid (GENI); and a project that develops light-weight electronics to connect to photovoltaic solar panels to be installed on walls or rooftops.\n\nSince 2010, ARPA-E has hosted the Energy Innovation Summit which takes place at the Gaylord Convention Center, near Washington, D.C. The 9th summit is scheduled to be held March 13th through 15th, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "984052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984052", "title": "Albert Cheng", "text": "Albert Cheng\n\nAlbert J. Cheng was born in Hong Kong on 3 July 1946, a Fellow of the Hong Kong Institute of Engineers, past chairman and present Director of the Aircraft Division.\n\nCheng landed in Canada in 1969 to work initially as an aircraft engineer. He became a Canadian citizen four years later.\n\nA founding member and former director of the Vancouver Chinese Cultural Centre, Cheng was seconded from the former Canadian Pacific Air to co-ordinate the fund-raising initiative to build the Chinese Cultural Centre, which stands as the largest Chinese community amenity in North America.\n\nCheng is the founder and founding president of the Chinese Canadian Association in Hong Kong, which later established the Canadian International School of Hong Kong. The school, which offers the Canadian curriculum, opened its door to 81 students in 1991, educating more than 1,800 students of over 40 nationalities from pre-reception to Grade 12. It has now been expanded into Mainland China. The Canadian International School of Beijing was founded in 2005 and has students from over 70 countries.\n\nAfter Commercial Radio had dismissed him under political pressure, he gave up his Canadian citizenship in 2004 to comply with local election requirements for direct elections to the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. Despite his absence from Canada, Cheng has doubled up for the past 20 years as a commentator for overseas Chinese voice (AM 1470 CJVB /AM 1320 CHMB), a multicultural radio station in Vancouver. His commentaries are syndicated across overseas Chinese-speaking communities in North America and Australia.\n\nIn 1986, he launched Capital Communications Corporation to publish the Chinese editions of international titles, such as the \"Capital\", \"Playboy\" and \"Forbes\" magazines, Chinese edition. The company was merged with Paramount Publishing Group in 1991 (a public listed company) to become the largest publishing and printing house in the region.\n\nCheng was appointed as consultant for a wide spectrum of key institutions in Hong Kong, including the Land Development Council, Mass Transit Railway Corporation, Hong Kong Jockey Club, Trade Development Council, PCCW, Futures and Security Commission and Hong Kong Stock Exchange.\n\nHe was a member of the Securities & Futures Commission's Public Shareholders Group. Cheng also led the Hong Kong Expo' 97 Initiative Committee in 1988.\n\nIn May 1989, over a million Hong Kongers took to the streets to rally for the pro-democracy student movement in Tiananmen Square in Beijing. The Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Democratic Patriotic Movements of China was established during the massive protests. Cheng is a co-founder of this multi-sectorial umbrella civil body to back the Chinese students' demand for democracy and a clean government.\n\nThe peaceful demonstrations in Tiananmen Square ended in a bloody military crackdown, which shook Hong Kong and the world. Cheng then went on to form the Right of Abode Delegation, with Hong Kong leading businessmen to press London for full British passports for Hong Kong people as a political insurance policy. The campaign resulted in right of abode in Britain for some 50,000 Hong Kong people. The move helped boost confidence in Hong Kong's future.\n\nAs an activist, he was instrumental in mobilising mass opposition in 2002 to the Hong Kong Government's Central and Wan Chai Reclamation Project, which was regarded as environmental-unfriendly and a threat to Hong Kong's renown Victoria Harbor. He was behind a judicial review that resulted in stopping the reclamation in Central.\n\nCheng was opposed to the privatisation of the government's shopping malls and car parks in its public housing estates. He was concerned that the ill-considered move would undermine the interests of the low-income public housing tenants, especially the elderly ones. He strived in vain to stop the related listing of the Link REIT on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2005. Now a decade later, the Chief Executive of the HKSAR Government, Leung Chun-ying, has proven Cheng right by denouncing Link REIT as failing to fulfill its social responsibilities.\n\nHe was a vocal force in the Legislative Council. He tackled vital issues such as the opening up of the public airwaves, imposing tighter tobacco control, introducing food labelling, and regulating against unscrupulous practices in the sales of residential flats.\n\nCheng was appointed by the Chief Executive of the HKSAR for four years to serve on the Independent Police Complaints Council, which is tasked with monitoring the review by the Complaints Against Police Office of complaints against members of the Police Force. During his tenure, Cheng served as the Chairman of the Publicity Committee.\n\nHe has been cherished as a people's hero in mobilising civil efforts in the fight against the SARS epidemics in 2003. He had single-handedly raised some HK$100 million in the social movement against SARS.\n\nIn 1994, Cheng co-hosted the ground-breaking political talk show \"News Tease\" on Asia Television which set the trend of current affairs commentary programmes in the local electronic media. He was under pressure to leave the business sector because of his candid political remarks. Apart from ATV, he also hosted current affairs talk shows on Cable TV and Now TV.\n\nA year later, he left Paramount Publishing Group and Capital Communications to become a full-time host of Commercial Radio's breakfast talk-back show \"Teacup in a Storm,” which emerged swiftly as the most popular programme in town. He was branded the \"Chief Executive before 10 am\" because of his outspoken criticisms of government bureaucracy, public policy failures and social injustice. He spoke for the social under dogs and pressed the authorities into action on matters of public concern. In 1998, he was ambushed by hired thugs and sustained serious injuries outside the station on his way to work. Premier Glen Clark of British Columbia visited him in the hospital during his official visit to Hong Kong. The same year, Premier Clark introduced him to the BC assembly, where he was recognised. For ten years (1995–2004), he had ruled the airwaves to take on vested interests and bureaucracies.\n\nDespite his vast popularity, Cheng's contract with Commercial Radio was terminated abruptly and unilaterally in 2004 as the station buckled under political pressure in the run-up to the renewal of its broadcasting license. There was writing in the wall that the authorities were seeking to restrain freedom of speech in the territory.\n\nCheng then ran for a place in the legislature. He won a seat in the Legislative Council and continued to champion freedom of speech and other civil liberties in his hat as a directly-elected legislator. He chaired the Panel on Information Technology and Broadcasting of the law-making body and promoted an \"open sky\" policy for the electronic media.\n\nIn 2008, Cheng announced that he would not seek re-election to Legco to avoid possible conflict of interests in his efforts to apply for a license to operate a radio station. His Wave Media was awarded a license in 2009 to prepare for Hong Kong’s first Digital Audio Broadcast service, under the banner of Digital Broadcasting Corporation (DBC).\n\nHe ran into a major argument with other shareholders as he insisted on an independent editorial policy that is critical of government failings. He founded D100 Radio, an online multi-media operation, after leaving his role as DBC chairman. D100 is now reckoned as a legendary social enterprise and Chinese platform on the Internet.\n\nThe electronic and new media aside, Cheng is also a veteran contributor to the news publications. He has been penning regular English and Chinese columns for the reputable \"South China Morning Post\" and \"Hong Kong Economic Journal\" for over 20 years.\n\nCheng is a prolific writer, whose many columnists have often set and define the social agenda in Hong Kong.\n\nHe has been a columnist for the \"Ming Pao Weekly\", \"Hong Kong Economic Journal\" and \"South China Morning Post\" since 1999. He has written from time to time to promote Canadian values and culture.\n\nCheng was a board member of the Hong Kong Audit Bureau of Circulation (HKABC). He also served as board member, treasurer, chairman of the Society of Hong Kong Publishers from 1988 to 1990. He has been served as a trustee of the Foundation of Businesses in Support of the Arts since 1990.\n\nCheng is a voting member of the \"Hong Kong Jockey Club\". The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has been ranked sixth in the World Charity Index 2015 for its charitable contributions, which reached a record HK$3.87 billion in 2014–15, supporting 189 charitable and community projects. The Club is the first Asian charity donor to be listed in the world’s top 10.\n\nHe also sat on another major charity in Hong Kong, the Community Chest. He was a member of the Public Relations Committee and Corporate & Employee Contribution Programme Organizing Committee of the Community Chest, which is a statutory body functioning as an umbrella organisation to provide grants to a wide range of community projects.\n\nIn 1996, the Senior Citizen Home Safety Association (SCHSA) was founded by Albert Cheng, Dr. C.K. Law (GBS, JP), and a group of individuals, in response to a prolonged cold spell during which more than one hundred elderly living alone were found dead. The association is a self-financing social enterprise and charitable organization in Hong Kong that offers 24-hour personal caring and emergency assistance services to the elderly and others.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2004, Cheng served as a member of the Securities & Futures Commission Public Shareholders Group to advise on issues relating to safeguarding shareholders' rights and interests.\n\nCheng was chairman of the second Hong Kong Film Awards Organizing Committee in 1984. He was a member of the Hong Kong Film Development Council from 2011 to 2013 to advise the Secretary for Commerce and Economic Development on relevant policies and activities, including manpower training, Mainland and overseas promotion, and support for the film industry.\n\nCheng acts as Asia adviser to the Provost and responsible for establishing the Greater China Scholarship of the University of Notre Dame, a Catholic research institute founded in 1842 in Indiana, USA. He was on the board of Hong Kong Shue Yan University's academic advisory board and curriculum vetting committee.\n\nHe was a governor and honorary development director of the English Schools Foundation (ESF), the biggest international educational foundation in Asia which runs 22 educational institutions mostly international schools in Hong Kong.\nCheng was also a vetting committee member for the digital media courses of the Vocational Training Council, the largest vocational and professional education and training provider serving 250,000 students a year in Hong Kong.\n\nHe was honorary vice-president of the Economic & Finance Society of the University of Hong Kong, and honorary advisor of the Society of Business Administration of the Chinese University of Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "7508532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7508532", "title": "Alliance laurentienne", "text": "Alliance laurentienne\n\nThe Alliance Laurentienne was a political organization founded by Raymond Barbeau on January 25, 1957. It was an early organization of the contemporary independence movement of Quebec but, unlike the majority of those to come, it adopted somewhat right-wing, even corporatist politics. It was also attached to the Catholic faith, as opposed to the secularism of most future sovereigntist groups. Its manifesto is however a proponent of love between peoples and ethnicities.\n\nIts own vision of a \"Free Quebec\" was called \"Laurentie\" (thus the name of the movement) and from 1957 to 1962, it published a magazine under that title. The independence intellectual André D'Allemagne was one of its members before, frustrated with its right-wing tendencies, he left to create the Rassemblement pour l'indépendance nationale (RIN). The RIN, officially neutral on the left-right spectrum, had many militants with beliefs ranging from socialism to social democracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44589765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44589765", "title": "Anti-Stalinist left", "text": "Anti-Stalinist left\n\nThe anti-Stalinist left comprises various kinds of left-wing politics critical of Joseph Stalin, of Stalinism as a political philosophy, and of the actual system of governance Stalin implemented as dictator of the Soviet Union.\n\nIt may also refer to left-wing opposition to dictatorships, cults of personality, totalitarianism and police states, features commonly attributed to Stalinist regimes, such as Kim Il Sung, Enver Hoxha, Mao Zedong, Fidel Castro, and others, including in the former Eastern Bloc.\n\nAssociates and followers of Leon Trotsky were organised in the Left Opposition within the Communist parties before they were purged in the Moscow Trials in the 1930s. Trotskyist differ from most other ideological manifestations on the \"anti-Stalinist left\" in that they, like Marxist-Leninists, also claim to be Leninists. Subsequently, his followers formed the Fourth International in opposition to the Stalinist Third International. Trotsky saw the Stalinist states as deformed workers' state, where a political structure gave most workers very little power in decision making.\n\nTrotsky and his followers were very critical of the lack of internal debate among Stalinist organizations and societies and political repression enacted by Stalinist governments (i.e., The Great Purge); nationalist elements of Stalinist theory (the Socialism in One Country thesis, for example, adopted by Stalin as state policy), that led to a very poor revolutionary strategy in an international contest (and breaking with the internationalist traditions of Marxism); and its dictatorial, bureaucratic, obscurantist, personalistic, and high repressive methods (which Trotsky called \"inquisitorial\", in a speech that was read and broadcast in English). Less orthodox Trotskyists and other critics of Stalin have seen it as a new form of class state, called bureaucratic collectivism (James Burnham, Milovan Đilas, and Max Shachtman) or as state capitalist (Tony Cliff, C. L. R. James, and Raya Dunayevskaya.).\n\nThe communist left was initially enthusiastic about the Bolshevik revolution, but lines of tension between the communist left and the leadership of the Communist International opened up very soon. Left communists such as Sylvia Pankhurst and Rosa Luxemburg were among the first left-wing critics of Bolshevism. Left communists see communism as something that can only be achieved by the proletariat itself, and not through the dictatorship of a vanguard party acting on its behalf. (See also council communism, Marxist humanism, ultra-left, luxemburgism.)\n\nAnarchists like Emma Goldman were initially enthusiastic about the Bolsheviks, particularly after dissemination of Vladimir Lenin's pamphlet \"State and Revolution\", which had painted Bolshevism in a libertarian light. However, the relations between the anarchists and the Bolsheviks soured in Soviet Russia (e.g. in the suppression of the Kronstadt rebellion and the Makhnovist movement). Anarchists and Stalinist Communists were also in armed conflict during the Spanish civil war. Anarchists are critical of the statist, totalitarian nature of Stalinism (and Marxism-Leninism in general), as well as its cult of personality around Stalin (and subsequent leaders seen by anarchists as Stalinists, such as Kim Il Sung or Mao Zedong).\n\nA significant current of the democratic socialist movement has defined itself in opposition to Stalinism. This includes George Orwell, H. N. Brailsford, Fenner Brockway, and the Independent Labour Party in Britain (particularly after World War II). There were also a number of anti-Stalinist socialists in France, including writers such as Simone Weil and Albert Camus as well as the group around Marceau Pivert. In America, the New York Intellectuals around the journals \"Partisan Review\" and \"Dissent\" saw Soviet Communism as a form of totalitarianism in some ways mirroring fascism. The New York Intellectuals are often described as being part of the origins of the neoconservative movement.\n\nAnother major split in the international Communist movement was that between Stalin and the Right Opposition, led by Nikolai Bukharin. In several countries parallel Communist parties were formed that either were rejected by the Comintern or distanced themselves from it. Their criticism did in some ways become similar to positions raised by the Trotskyists, but as a tendency they were far less coherent. The Right Opposition developed contacts with other groups that did not fit into either the international Social democracy or Comintern, such as the Independent Labour Party in Britain. This tendency largely died out at the time of the Second World War. In other cases dissident Marxist trends developed outside of the established Communist movement, such as the Anushlian Marxists in India.\n\nAt first, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and the regime it established through the successful war of liberation against the Axis invaders by the partizans was modeled on that of Soviet Union, and Tito was considered to be \"Stalin's most faithful pupil\". However, in 1948, the two leaders broke apart and Tito's aides (most notably Edvard Kardelj, Milovan Đilas, and Moša Pijade) began a theoretical effort to develop a new brand of Socialism that would be both Marxist–Leninist in nature and anti-Stalinist in practice. The result was the Yugoslav system of socialist workers' self-management, also known as Titoism, based on the organizing of every productive activities of society into \"self-managed units\".\n\nĐilas, particularly, wrote extensively against Stalinism and was radically critical of the bureaucratic apparatus built by Bolshevism in the Soviet Union. He later grew critical of his own regime as well and became a dissident in Yugoslavia. He was imprisoned but later pardoned.\n\n\"Non-Communist Left\", or NCL, was a designation used in the U.S. State Department and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) referring mainly to leftist intellectuals who had become disillusioned by Stalin. Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. highlighted the group's growing power in a popular 1948 essay titled \"Not Right, Not Left, But a Vital Center\". Another key publication was \"The God that Failed\" (1948), a compilation of essays from six former Communists who remained on the left.\n\nWinning over and harnessing the power of the NCL became central to the US propaganda struggle against the USSR during the early Cold War. This strategy directly inspired the creation of the Congress for Cultural Freedom (CCF), as well as international journals like \"Der Monat\" and \"Encounter\"; it also influenced existing publications such as the \"Partisan Review\".\n\nUnder these auspices (and consequently in fashionable intellectual circles in the US and Europe), anti-Stalinism became \"almost a professional stance\", \"a total outlook on life, no less, or even a philosophy of history.\" Prominent figures in this group include Arthur Koestler, Melvin J. Lasky, Dwight Macdonald, Sidney Hook, Stephen Spender, Nicolas Nabokov, and Isaiah Berlin. (The NCL notably excluded Jean-Paul Sartre because it could not accept his individualistic existentialist views.) Key organizers of the CIA's Non-Communist Left operation, titled QKOPERA, included Frank Wisner, Lawrence de Neufville, Thomas Braden, C.D. Jackson, and Michael Josselson. (Other supporters within the intelligence community included George F. Kennan, W. Averell Harriman, and General Lucius D. Clay.)\n\nThe NCL began to lose its cohesion and its appeal to the CIA during the radicalism of the late 1960s. Opposition to the Vietnam War fractured the coalition, and 1967 revelations of CIA funding (by \"Ramparts\" and others) were embarrassing for many of the intellectuals involved. Soon after the story broke, Braden (with tacit support from the CIA) wrote an article in the Saturday Evening Post which exposed CIA involvement with the Non-Communist Left and organized labor. Some argued that this article represented an intentional and final break of the CIA with the NCL.\n\nThe emergence of the New Left and the new social movements in the 1950s and 1960s led to a revival of interest in alternative forms of Marxism. Figures associated with British cultural studies (e.g., Raymond Williams), Italian autonomism and workerism (e.g., Antonio Negri), French groups like the Situationist International (e.g., Guy Debord) and Socialisme ou Barbarie (e.g., Cornelius Castoriadis) as well as the magazine \" Telos\" in America, were examples of this.\n\nAn anti-Stalinist left emerged in the former Soviet bloc in the early 1990s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "787320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=787320", "title": "Antiquities Act", "text": "Antiquities Act\n\nThe Antiquities Act of 1906, (, , ), is an act passed by the United States Congress and signed into law by Theodore Roosevelt on June 8, 1906. This law gives the President of the United States the authority to, by presidential proclamation, create national monuments from federal lands to protect significant natural, cultural, or scientific features. The Act has been used more than a hundred times since its passage.\n\nThe Antiquities Act was signed into law by President Theodore Roosevelt during his second term in office. The act resulted from concerns about protecting mostly prehistoric Native American ruins and artifacts--collectively termed \"antiquities\"--on federal lands in the West, such as at Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. Removal of artifacts from these lands by private collectors, \"pot hunters,\" had become a serious problem by the end of the 19th century. In 1902, Iowa Congressman John F. Lacey, who chaired the House Committee on the Public Lands, traveled to the Southwest with the rising anthropologist Edgar Lee Hewett, to see for himself the extent of the pot hunters' impact. His findings, supported by an exhaustive report by Hewett to Congress detailing the archaeological resources of the region, provided the necessary impetus for the passage of the legislation.\n\nSince the Antiquities Act became law, all but four presidents, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, and George H.W. Bush have chosen to enlarge or dedicate new national monuments. President Obama in his last term in office erected the most monuments than any President before him, with 26. The previous record was held by President Theodore Roosevelt with 18 monuments. \n\nOn April 26, 2017, President Donald Trump signed an executive order directing a review of the law and its uses.\n\nThe Act was intended to allow the President to set aside certain valuable public natural areas as park and conservation land. The 1906 act stated that it was intended for: \"... the protection of objects of historic and scientific interest.\" These areas are given the title of \"National Monuments.\" It also allows the President to reserve or accept private lands for that purpose. The aim is to protect all historic and prehistoric sites on United States federal lands and to prohibit excavation or destruction of these antiquities. With this act, this can be done much more quickly than going through the Congressional process of creating a National Park. The Act states that areas of the monuments are to be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has repeatedly upheld presidential proclamations under the Antiquities Act, ruling each time that the Act gives the president nearly-unfettered discretion as to the nature of the object to be protected and the size of the area reserved.\n\nSome areas designated as National Monuments have later been converted into National Parks, or incorporated into existing National Parks.\n\nThe first use of the Act protected a large geographic feature – President Theodore Roosevelt proclaimed Devils Tower National Monument on September 24, 1906. President Roosevelt also used it to create the Grand Canyon National Monument (now Grand Canyon National Park).\n\nAt , Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument is the largest protected area proclaimed. The smallest, Father Millet Cross National Monument (now part of a state park), was a mere .\n\nFor any excavation, the Act requires that a permit (Antiquities Permit) be obtained from the Secretary of the department which has jurisdiction over those lands.\n\nPresidential powers under the Act have been reduced twice. The first time followed the unpopular proclamation of Jackson Hole National Monument in 1943. The 1950 law that incorporated Jackson Hole into an enlarged Grand Teton National Park also amended the Antiquities Act, requiring Congressional consent for any future creation or enlargement of National Monuments in Wyoming. The second time followed Jimmy Carter's use of the Act to create of National Monuments in Alaska. The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act requires Congressional ratification of the use of the Antiquities Act in Alaska for withdrawals of greater than . Under the Trump administration, all monuments dedicated after the year 1996 have been called into question. The Trump Administration is possibly looking to modify or even dismantle some of the monuments erected under the 1906 Antiquities Act. Although some Presidents have chose to ignore the tradition of preservation of notable environmental or historic areas, no President to date has undone a predecessor's monument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1152415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1152415", "title": "Britain in Europe", "text": "Britain in Europe\n\nUntil August 2005, Britain in Europe was the main British pro-European pressure group. Despite connections to Labour and the Liberal Democrats, it was a cross-party organisation with supporters from many different political backgrounds. Initially founded to campaign for a “Yes” vote for the euro, it then progressed to support a “Yes” vote for the referendum on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.\n\nThe organisation was launched in 1999 by Tony Blair, Gordon Brown, Kenneth Clarke, Michael Heseltine and Charles Kennedy. In 2003, the organisation formally linked itself with the Brussels-based, pro-European, international organisation European Movement.\n\nThe director of Britain in Europe was Simon Buckby and later Lucy Powell. The director of communications was the Scottish Liberal Democrat politician Danny Alexander.\n\nOn 17 August 2005, the group was wound up following the French and Dutch \"No\" votes on the proposed European Constitution. Its resources were turned over to the European Movement.\n\nA successor pro-EU campaign, founded in 2012, is British Influence.\n\nAll are PDF files \n\nThe organisation disclosed the names of individuals and companies from which it received donations of more than £5,000, in line with the requirements of the Political Parties Act, although it was not a political party and was not obliged to do so.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16724916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16724916", "title": "Cabinet of Moldova", "text": "Cabinet of Moldova\n\nThe Cabinet of Moldova is the chief executive body of the government of Moldova. Its function according to the Constitution of Moldova is \"to carry out the domestic and foreign policy of the State and to apply general control over the work of public administration\".\n\nThe Constitution states that \"The Government consists of a Prime Minister, a first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers and other cabinet Members, as determined by organic law,\"..\n\nMoldova is a republic with a democratically elected government, acting according to the principles of parliamentarism.\n\nLegislative power is vested in the Parliament. Executive affairs of government are decided by the cabinet.\n\nThe composition of the cabinet is decided by the Prime Minister. The current number of ministries is nine, after a government reform of 2017, by which this number was reduced from 16.\n\nThe 9 ministries of the Cabinet of Moldova are:\n\n\nThe following is a list of all governments since 1917. It includes the governments of the Moldavian Democratic Republic, which unified with Romania in 1918 shortly after its creation, and the administration of the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic, which was a constituent republic of the highly centralized Soviet Union from 1940-1941 and again from 1944-1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "383530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383530", "title": "Canadian Action Party", "text": "Canadian Action Party\n\nThe Canadian Action Party (CAP) (, PAC) was a Canadian federal political party founded in 1997 and deregistered on 31 March 2017.\n\nThe party stood for Canadian nationalism, monetary and electoral reform, and opposed liberal globalization and free trade agreements that had been signed by the Canadian government.\n\nThe Canadian Action Party (CAP) was founded by Paul T. Hellyer, a former Liberal minister of defence in the cabinet of Lester B. Pearson. Hellyer ran unsuccessfully for the leadership of the Liberal Party in 1968, and for the leadership of the Progressive Conservative Party in 1976.\n\nCAP nominated candidates for the first time in the 1997 federal election.\n\nAfter the 1997 election, it absorbed the Canada Party, another minor party concerned about monetary reform which had been formed by former members of the Social Credit Party of Canada. Former Canada Party leader Claire Foss served as vice president of CAP until November 2003.\n\nHellyer resigned as CAP leader in 2003 after the New Democratic Party didn't agree to a merger proposal, under which the NDP would change its name. In 2004, Connie Fogal, an activist lawyer, was acclaimed party leader after David Orchard failed to respond to an invitation to take over the leadership. Fogal stepped down in 2008 and was succeeded by Andrew J. Moulden following the 2008 federal election.\n\nThe acting Chief Electoral Officer of Canada advised the party leader that the party will be deregistered effective Friday, March 31, 2017, for not having at least 250 members who are eligible voters.\n\nA number of CAP members also belonged to the Committee on Monetary and Economic Reform (COMER) and had been influential in developing CAP's monetary policy, particularly its position that the Bank of Canada, rather than chartered banks, should provide loans to the government, if required, to fund public spending.\n\nCAP also argued for the abrogation of North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), and opposed current government trade initiatives and any legislation leading to the Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and what it saw as integration with the United States and Mexico into a North American Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "915528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915528", "title": "Center for Democracy and Technology", "text": "Center for Democracy and Technology\n\nCenter for Democracy & Technology (CDT) is a Washington, D.C.-based 501(c)(3) non-profit organization whose mission is to strengthen individual rights and freedoms by defining, promoting, and influencing technology policy and the architecture of the Internet.\n\nAs an organization with expertise in law, technology, and policy, CDT works to preserve the unique nature of the Internet, enhance freedom of expression globally, protect fundamental rights of privacy, and stronger legal controls on government surveillance by finding practical and innovative solutions to public policy challenges while protecting civil liberties. CDT is dedicated to building consensus among all parties interested in the future of the Internet and other new communications media. In addition to its D.C. office, CDT has a full-time presence in Brussels.\n\nIn 1994, CDT was founded by Jerry Berman, the former executive director and former policy director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The battle against applying the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) to the Internet - expanding law enforcement wiretapping capabilities by requiring telephone companies to design their networks to ensure a certain basic level of government access - spurred the creation of CDT in 1994. Recognizing a threat to privacy and innovation in CALEA's design mandates, CDT fought the passage of the CALEA and later worked to ensure that its implementation would not extend to the Internet. In the end, CALEA did not contain wiretapping design mandates for the Internet and required transparency surrounding design standards. CDT's launch was assisted by seed donations from AT&T Corporation, Bell Atlantic, Nynex, Apple, and Microsoft.\n\nToday, CDT has expanded its scope to include tech policy issues across disciplines and borders, continuing to work to protect privacy, promote security, and draw attention to all the ways in which technology changes the landscape of democracy. CDT utilizes an expertise-based advocacy model and acts as a non-partisan body, drawing together perspectives and voices from varying backgrounds to emphasize the importance of technology's role in the freedom, expression, security, privacy, and integrity of the individual. CDT advises government officials, agencies, corporations, and civil society on technology and technology-related policy.\n\nIn its early years, CDT fought the Communications Decency Act (CDA) in its attempt to restrict free expression online for the sake of child safety. CDT founded the Citizens Internet Empowerment Coalition (CIEC), a coalition of free speech groups and tech companies for the advancement of free speech. Against the proposed government censorship of the CDA, the CIEC maintained that both child safety and free speech could be protected by giving users the right to control their own content access. To provide further context for the case, CDT wired the courtroom so that the judges of Philadelphia's District Court could see the Internet. After combining forces with the ACLU, the CIEC's counsel argued the case before the Supreme Court. The Communications Decency Act was struck down unanimously in 1997.\n\nIn the following year, CDT helped to craft the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act. Testifying before Congress, CDT argued that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) should be able to develop rules to protect both adults' and children's privacy online. Forming a coalition of free expression and youth rights groups, CDT and its coalition secured an amendment to limit parental consent to children 12 and under, allowing teenagers to enjoy more freedom online.\n\nIn a 1999 report, CDT made clear that the Federal Election Commission's (FEC) attempts to regulate online political speech according to campaign finance laws were impractical and to the detriment of civic political engagement. CDT worked against the FEC's proposal with an organized group of online activists and bloggers. In collaboration with the Institute for Politics, Democracy, and the Internet, CDT created guidelines to help the FEC and Congress consider their treatment of citizens' political speech online. In support, hundreds of concerned parties signed onto the listing of principles, urging the FEC to drop its proposed rules and Congress to end the rule-making. CDT's grassroots advocacy reversed the tide. The FEC abandoned its proposal and issued a new rule that applied campaign finance regulations only to paid online advertising, protecting the online political speech of citizens.\n\nCDT launched the Global Internet Policy Initiative in 2000, partnering with Internews to survey 11 developing countries to assess their telecom and Internet policies. CDT staff worked with Frank LaRue to shape a report on Internet human rights and the U.S. Ambassador to the UN Human Rights Council to educate members of the Council on Internet freedom in advance of the successful Resolution on Internet Freedom.\n\nFollowing an influx of spyware in 2003, CDT filed complaints against egregious actors with the FTC, resulting in historic settlements against spyware companies. CDT pulled together anti-spyware and anti-virus companies, leading security product distributors, and public interest groups to create the Anti-Spyware Coalition (ASC). The ASC developed a self-regulatory model for companies based on shared definitions of spyware, a comprehensive risk model, best practices for software companies, and a concise vendor conflict resolution process. Using the ASC outputs, anti-spyware companies could label malicious software and protect consumers without fear of being sued by the companies they were targeting, and advertisers could keep better track of where their advertisements were displayed.\n\nIn 2006, CDT united with the Business for Social Responsibility to assemble human rights advocates, companies, researchers, and investors to deal with government calls for censorship and restriction of information access. The pairing has successfully worked together to create an accountability framework and principles for the Global Network Initiative (GNI), a human rights organization that promotes the privacy of individual users while preventing online censorship by authoritarian governments.\n\nIn 2007, CDT was among the first advocacy organizations to formally call for a Do Not Track (DNT) list from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). In addition, CDT has played an integral role in pushing for a standardized DNT header at the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). In 2010, the FTC requested a system that would allow consumers to control whether they were tracked online. In response, all five major browsers put DNT features into place, granting users to ability to surf the web incognito. The W3C formed a Tracking Protection Working Group in order to standardize the DNT compliance, which CDT leadership had a prominent role in.\n\nCDT has also voiced privacy concerns over the practice of “deep packet inspection” (DPI), which allows companies to collect data from Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and categorize individual Internet traffic streams to service ads based on that information without user consent. CDT conducted legal analysis to show how DPI advertising practices could violate the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) and testified before Congress. In 2009, major ISPs affirmed that they would not use DPI-based behavioral advertising without very robust opt-in provisions. In the same year, CDT started the Health Privacy Project to bring expertise to complex privacy issues surrounding technology use in health care. A year later, CDT recommended new guidelines for reporting data breaches and for protecting health data used in marketing. These guidelines were incorporated into the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.\n\nLater in 2010, CDT launched the Digital Due Process Coalition, establishing four principles for Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) reform. Currently, the coalition has over one hundred members including some of the biggest Internet companies to advocacy groups across the entire political spectrum. The campaign for ECPA reform has brought the need for extending full constitutional protections to the Internet to the forefront of the national debate and has resulted in 2013 coalition-supported bipartisan bills in both houses of Congress.\n\nTwo copyright enforcement bills, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the Protect IP Act (PIPA), were introduced to the US Congress in 2010 and 2011. Both bills posed serious threats to the technical grounds of the Internet, as well as freedom of expression online, by increasing the role of ISPs and Internet intermediaries in combating online copyright infringement. In opposition to SOPA and PIPA, the CDT gathered organizations from technical and civil society backgrounds. The efforts of CDT provided critical legal analysis which laid the foundation for 2012's incredible surge of grassroots resistance against SOPA and PIPA.\n\nCDT was one of the few civil society organizations involved in the founding of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), encouraging a bottom-up style of governance and making certain that the voice of the Internet users be included at the table. In the ICANN deliberations, CDT argued for public representation and for the placement of a Civil Society representative on its Board. In helping to form the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's (OECD) Principles for Internet Policy Making in 2011, CDT also pushed for a multi-stakeholder approach to Internet governance. OECD's 34 member states committed to respect human rights, open governance, rule of law, and consideration of numerous viewpoints by accepting the principles.\n\nAt the International Telecommunication Union’s (ITU) World Conference on International Telecommunications (WCIT) in 2012, CDT brought inclusive Internet governance into focus. Though many governments came bearing proposals to escalate government and ITU control over Internet governance, CDT defeated all such proposals through organized civil society advocacy. In addition, CDT fortified relationships between organizations for the sake of future advocacy efforts. Even now, inclusive Internet governance faces serious obstacles as nations scramble to respond to news of the National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance. CDT continues to work with an expanding group of partners motivated by civil society concern to preserve the free and open nature of the Internet.\n\nCDT requested Congress make Congressional Research Services Reports (CRS) publicly available and easily accessible. When Congress failed to do so, CDT started a website, OpenCRS.com, that made CRS reports freely available online. OpenCRS.com was one of the leading sources of CRS reports. By collecting CRS reports acquired by organizations and citizens through direct appeals to their representatives, the OpenCRS website served as a valuable repository of information. Though no longer in operation, the OpenCRS inspired other CRS websites and open resources.\n\nCDT has long been an active supporter of Internet neutrality. In a brief filed in 2012, CDT supported the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) Open Internet Rules. The rules detailed the limited role of the agency by blocking discrimination by broadband providers. In this way, the FCC intended to protect online free expression and innovation. In 2014, the Open Internet Rules were struck down, drawing CDT back into the fight for Internet neutrality on a global scale. By offering up extensive expertise, CDT has ensured that any EU regulation on Internet neutrality takes into account the central tenet of nondiscrimination.\n\nIn the early 90s, the NSA developed and promoted the “Clipper Chip,” an encryption device for telephone calls. The NSA argued that government access to cryptographic keys was essential to national security – CDT and its allies claimed that the Clipper Chip would introduce greater vulnerabilities into the country's communications networks. In 2013, on behalf of a coalition of Internet companies such as Apple, Google, Facebook, and Twitter and advocates for free speech and privacy rights such as ACLU, EFF, and Mozilla, CDT delivered a 'We Need To Know' letter to officials in the US government demanding greater transparency in matters of national security-related surveillance of Internet and telephone communications. Advocating for reform, CDT's firm stance is that the NSA's surveillance programs and its interference with Internet security infringe on privacy, are chilling to free speech and association, and threaten the free flow of information that is the foundation of the open Internet. As an advocacy organization, CDT has outlined key reforms to NSA surveillance.\n\nCDT's Privacy and Data Project examines the evolving role of technology in daily life, considering its influence on individuals, communities, and law. In identifying emerging issues and collaborating with companies and public officials, CDT's privacy experts are able to develop forward-thinking technical and policy solutions. Among the topics covered by CDT's Privacy and Data team are Health Privacy, the Internet of Things, Broadband Privacy, Drones, Student Privacy, and Digital Decisions. Additionally, CDT heads the State Privacy Resource Center, which serves as a repository of information to help policymakers at the state and local level craft privacy legislation.\n\nToday's tech affords individuals the ability to communicate, receive, publish, and interpret information and ideas like never before. Understanding that the free flow of information is essential to any healthy democratic process, CDT's Free Expression Project works both to ensure that free speech protections extend to online expression and to block censorship and content gatekeeping. As new platforms for discourse emerge and revolutionize the application of the First Amendment, maintaining the integrity of a user-defined online experience is of utmost importance. Currently, CDT's Free Expression team focuses on issues of Digital Copyright, Intermediary Liability, Children's Privacy, and Net Neutrality.\n\nThe technological advancements of today allow governments the means to access troves of personal information by collecting and analyzing the data generated and stored on the devices of individuals. Reasonable, and effectively enforced, checks need to be placed on governments' access to and use of individuals' data to preserve the rights to privacy and free expression. Security must exist in accordance with individual freedoms; it is clear that balanced policies and laws are the only way to achieve both aims. The Security and Surveillance Project of CDT fights to put those balanced checks in place, presently considering issues of ECPA reform, cybersecurity, US government surveillance, drones, and encryption and government hacking.\n\nIf human rights are to thrive in modernity, the values of individual security, privacy, and free expression must be considered with regard to the increasingly digital world. Principles must be ingrained in the foundation of technology, guiding future development and imagined uses. CDT's Internet Architecture team uses their technical expertise to influence legislation, understanding the importance of informed policy-making. Today, CDT's Internet Architecture team focuses on online anonymity and encryption, the standards that govern the technical decisions of internet operation, net neutrality, government surveillance, internet governance policies at across the globe, cybersecurity research, and election security and privacy.\n\nWhen it comes to influencing technology policy on a global scale, the perspective and performance of the EU factors in significantly. With a full-time presence in Brussels, CDT is able to promote the fundamental principles of an open and inclusive Internet in collaboration with the EU's Member States, civil society, public institutions, and technology sector. CDT's EU Office focuses on the policy areas of digital copyright, intermediary liability and free expression, surveillance and government access to personal data, net neutrality, internet governance, and data protection and privacy. The GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), EU net neutrality policy, European Commission's cybersecurity strategy, and the EU intellectual property enforcement directive are among the issues that CDT's Brussels Office has actively engaged with.\n\nThirty-three percent of the organization's support comes from foundations and other associated grants such as the MacArthur Foundation; another third of the organization's annual budget comes from various segments of the tech industry and the remainder is split among an annual fund-raising dinner (known in Washington circles as the \"Tech Prom\"), cy pres awards and other miscellaneous sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "383054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383054", "title": "Christian communism", "text": "Christian communism\n\nChristian communism is a form of religious communism based on Christianity. It is a theological and political theory based upon the view that the teachings of Jesus Christ compel Christians to support communism as the ideal social system. Although there is no universal agreement on the exact date when Christian communism was founded, many Christian communists assert that evidence from the Bible (in the Acts of the Apostles) suggests that the first Christians, including the apostles, established their own small communist society in the years following Jesus' death and resurrection. As such, many advocates of Christian communism argue that it was taught by Jesus and practiced by the apostles themselves. Some independent historians confirm it.\n\nChristian communists hold the biblical verse Acts 4:32–35 as evidence that the first Christians lived in a communist society. Acts 4:32–35 reads: \"All the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of their possessions was their own, but they shared everything they had. With great power the apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Gods grace was so powerfully at work in them all that there were no needy persons among them. For from time to time those who owned land or houses sold them, brought the money from the sales and put it at the apostles feet, and it was distributed to anyone who had need\".\n\nThere is evidence that what is described in Acts 4:32–35 is historical and was practiced widely and taken seriously during at least the first two centuries of Christianity. Other biblical evidence of anti-capitalistic belief systems include Matthew 6:24: \"No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other.You cannot serve both God and money\". \"Each according to his abilities\" has biblical origins too. Act 11:29 states: \"29 Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judaea\". \"To each according to his needs\" is biblical too. Acts 4:35: \"[...] to the emissaries to distribute to each according to his need\". Thomas Wharton Collens' \"Preaching\" describes biblical sources supporting a common-property society.\n\nChristian communism is not merely based on the principles of the early apostles. In fact, Christian communists claim that anti-capitalist ideals are deeply rooted in the Christian faith. While capitalism had not yet formed in the time of Christ, his message was overwhelmingly against the love of money (greed) and in support of the poor. The principles of Christ are seen by Christian communists as staunchly anti-capitalist in nature. As Christ taught that the love of money was the root of many evils, by that logic it seems only natural for Christians to oppose a social system founded entirely on the love of money as Christian communists claim. In fact, capitalist development was delayed largely by Christian opposition to the emergence of such a system and it did not gather popular support until John Calvin brought about popular support of capitalism from a religious perspective. The ideals of Christian communism are pre-Calvinist and as such seek to return Christianity to its anti-capitalist roots by progressing beyond it into socialism and finally to communism.\n\nContemporary communism, including contemporary Christian communism, owes much to Marxist thought—particularly Marxist economics. Not all communists are in full agreement with Marxism, but it is difficult to find any communists today who do not agree at least with the Marxist critique of capitalism. Marxism includes a complex array of views that cover several different fields of human knowledge and one may easily distinguish between Marxist philosophy, Marxist sociology and Marxist economics. Marxist sociology and Marxist economics have no connection to religious issues and make no assertions about such things. On the other hand, Marxist philosophy is famously atheistic, although some Marxist scholars, both Christian and non-Christian, have insisted that Marxist philosophy and the philosophy of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels are significantly different from one another and that this difference needs recognition. In particular, Jose Porfirio Miranda found Marx and Engels to be consistently opposed to deterministic materialism and broadly sympathetic towards Christianity and towards the text of the Bible, although disbelieving in a supernatural deity. Vladimir Lenin also allowed Christians in the Bolshevik Party.\n\nThere is also the question of how a communist society should be actually achieved. While orthodox communists advocate a form of violent revolution, Christian communists almost universally insist on nonviolent means, such as passive resistance or winning elections. Some groups are pacifists, such as the Hutterites and Bruderhof, who regard all force as wrong, including forcing a new society on someone. Regarding the issue of the nationalization of the means of production, Christian communists argue that capitalism itself is a form of institutionalized theft in the manner that capitalist owners exploit their workers by not paying them the full value of their labour. However, not all Christian communists seek to achieve large-scale social change. Some believe that rather than attempting to transform the politics and economics of an entire country, Christians should instead establish communism at a local or regional level only.\n\nAccording to theologians such as Leonardo Boff, the Latin American branch of Christian communist liberation theology is rooted in the concept that \"prudence is the understanding of situations of radical crisis\". Among Christian communists, historical materialism is utilized as a methodology of analysis to define the nature of the crisis in question as a product of political-economic dynamics and modalities derived from the workings of what is termed \"the late capitalist/imperialist mode of production\". According to this subset of liberation theology, the challenge for the Christian communist is then to define what it means (in context of \"a concrete analysis of the concrete social reality\") to affirm a \"preferential option for the poor and oppressed\" as praxis (active theory) and as commanded by an ethics allegedly \"rooted in the beatidic teachings of Jesus\". Christian communist liberation theology is not about evangelization per se, but rather about developing an orthopraxis (ethical action, i.e. the condition of coming to the light by doing the works of God) that aims to reconcile the \"beatidic ethics\" of Jesus as espoused in the Sermon on the Mount with existing social struggles against what is termed \"neo-colonialism\" or \"late capitalism\". Both Christian communism and liberation theology stress orthopraxis over orthodoxy. A narrative of the nature of contemporary social struggles is developed via materialist analysis utilizing historiographic concepts developed by Karl Marx. A concrete example are the Paraguayan \"Sin Tierra\" (landless) movement, who engage in direct land seizures and the establishment of socialized agricultural cooperative production in \"asentamientos\". The contemporary Paraguayan \"Sin Tierra\" operate in a very similar manner as that of the reformation era Diggers. For Camilo Torres (the founder of the Colombian guerrilla group ELN), developing this orthopraxis meant celebrating the Catholic Eucharist only among those engaged in armed struggle against the army of the Colombian state while fighting alongside them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57093230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57093230", "title": "Citizen National Guard", "text": "Citizen National Guard\n\nCitizen National Guard, abbreviated as CNG, is a Filipino nationalist political advocacy group founded in 2017 by Antonio Valdez. It was established by supporters of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte. The group aims to \"defend the country, protect the people and support the president\", from perceived opponents, including Islamic and communist extremists (mainly ISIS-inspired groups and CPP-NPA, respectively) and supporters of the Liberal Party, which is the main opposition party since Duterte's term.\n\nThe group received support from some government officials, including former Department of Justice secretary Vitaliano Aguirre II and Public Attorney's Office Chairperson Persida Acosta. Conversely, its establishment drew criticism from opposition, mainly the left-leaning alliance Bagong Alyansang Makabayan.\n\n"}
{"id": "24011965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24011965", "title": "City development index", "text": "City development index\n\nThe City Development Index was developed for the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) in 1996 and measures the level of development in cities. The Urban Indicators Programme of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) developed the indicator so that they could rank cities of the world according to their level of development and as a display of indicators depicting development. The CDI cuts across the different clusters identified in the Urban Indicator Framework as it is based on five sub indices namely, infrastructure, waste, health, education and city product. It is useful as it provides a snap-shot view of how cities are doing with respect to the different indices. It was invented by Dr Joe Flood, first Coordinator of the Urban Indicators Program, following a statistical analysis of city indicators data.\n\nCalculating the City Development Index\nThe City Development Index is calculated according to the formulae in the table below. It has separate sub-indices for Infrastructure, Waste Management, Health, Education, and City Product, which are averaged to form the CDI. Each sub-index is a combination of several indicators that have been normalized to give a value between 0 and 1. Because the variables used to make up the CDI are strongly related to each other, there are a number of ways to calculate the CDI that give almost identical results. For this report, the weightings given to each indicator have been initially calculated by a statistical process called Principal Components Analysis and then simplified. This formulation of the index by and large uses the same formulae as in UNDP Human Development Report (1999), for the Health, Education and City Product sub-indices.\n\nFor meaningful ranking of cities, the index requires data that are essentially complete, robust and precise - so not many variables are suitable. All the underlying data had to be checked for accuracy and completeness. Where there were missing data or based on very inaccurate estimates, they were either replaced by data from another national city of similar size, by country-wide figures (or national urban data, if available) or by figures for a nearby city or place at a similar level of development (but only if absolutely necessary). Also, Formal waste disposal or Wastewater treated is taken as zero if not provided. Where City Product was not provided, it was calculated so that City Product x Household size = 0.45 x Mean Household Income (which is similar to the main estimation formula). For most transition countries 0.35 x Household Income is used since, in transition economies, much GDP goes into indirect services and subsidies. The resultant city products must be somewhere in the vicinity of the National GDP per person, otherwise household incomes are presumed incorrect and adjusted.\n\nCalculating the CDI\nSubsequently several changes were made to the index by Dr Flood in work for the Asian Development Bank, to include telecommunications data. Other additions have been made by consultants in practical applications.\n"}
{"id": "65461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65461", "title": "Civil Service (United Kingdom)", "text": "Civil Service (United Kingdom)\n\nHer Majesty's Home Civil Service, also known as Her Majesty's Civil Service or the Home Civil Service, is the permanent bureaucracy or secretariat of Crown employees that supports Her Majesty's Government, which is composed of a cabinet of ministers chosen by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as two of the three devolved administrations: the Scottish Government and the Welsh Government, but not the Northern Ireland Executive.\n\nAs in other states that employ the Westminster political system, Her Majesty's Home Civil Service forms an inseparable part of the British government. The executive decisions of government ministers are implemented by HM Civil Service. Civil servants are employees of the Crown and not of the British parliament. Civil servants also have some traditional and statutory responsibilities which to some extent protect them from being used for the political advantage of the party in power. Senior civil servants may be called to account to Parliament.\n\nIn general use, the term \"civil servant\" in the United Kingdom does not include all public sector employees; although there is no fixed legal definition, the term is usually defined as a \"servant of the Crown working in a civil capacity who is not the holder of a political (or judicial) office; the holder of certain other offices in respect of whose tenure of office special provision has been made; [or] a servant of the Crown in a personal capacity paid from the Civil List\". As such, the civil service does not include government ministers (who are politically appointed), members of the British Armed Forces, the police, officers of local government authorities or quangos of the Houses of Parliament, employees of the National Health Service (NHS), or staff of the Royal Household. As at the end of March 2016 there were 418,343 civil servants in the Home Civil Service, this is down 3.6% on the previous year.\n\nThere are two other administratively separate civil services in the United Kingdom. One is for Northern Ireland (the Northern Ireland Civil Service); the other is the foreign service (Her Majesty's Diplomatic Service). The heads of these services are members of the Permanent Secretaries Management Group.\n\nThe Offices of State grew in England, and later the United Kingdom. Initially, as in other countries, they were little more than secretariats for their leaders, who held positions at court. They were chosen by the king on the advice of a patron, and typically replaced when their patron lost influence. In the 18th century, in response to the growth of the British Empire and economic changes, institutions such as the Office of Works and the Navy Board grew large. Each had its own system and staff were appointed by purchase or patronage. By the 19th century, it became increasingly clear that these arrangements were not working.\n\nIn 1806, the East India Company, a private company that ruled only in India, established a college, the East India Company College, near London. The purpose of this college was to train administrators; it was established on recommendation of officials in China who had seen the imperial examination system. The civil service, based on examination similar to the Chinese system, was advocated by a number of Englishmen over the next several decades.\n\nWilliam Ewart Gladstone, then a junior minister, in 1850 sought a more efficient system based on expertise rather than favouritism. The East India Company provided a model for Stafford Northcote, the private Secretary to Gladstone, who with Charles Trevelyan (Permanent Secretary of the Treasury) drafted the key report in 1854. A permanent, unified and politically neutral civil service, in which appointments were made on merit, was introduced on the recommendations of the Northcote–Trevelyan Report of 1854, which also recommended a clear division between staff responsible for routine (\"mechanical\") work, and those engaged in policy formulation and implementation in an \"administrative\" class. The report was not implemented, but it came at a time when the bureaucratic chaos in the Crimean War demonstrated that the military was as backward as the civil service. A Civil Service Commission was set up in 1855 to oversee open recruitment and end patronage. Prime Minister Gladstone took the decisive step in 1870 with his Order in Council to implement the Northcote-Trevelyan proposals. This system was broadly endorsed by Commissions chaired by Playfair (1874), Ridley (1886), MacDonnell (1914), Tomlin (1931) and Priestley (1955).\n\nThe Northcote–Trevelyan model remained essentially stable for a hundred years. This was a tribute to its success in removing corruption, delivering public services (even under the stress of two world wars), and responding effectively to political change. Patrick Diamond argues:\n\nThe Irish Civil Service was separate from the British civil service; although the Acts of Union 1800 abolished the Parliament of Ireland, the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was retained in formal charge of the Irish executive based at Dublin Castle. The Irish Office in Whitehall liaised with Dublin Castle. Some British departments' area of operation extended to Ireland, while in other fields the Dublin department was separate from the Whitehall equivalent.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, however, demands for change again grew. There was a concern (illustrated in C. P. Snow's \"Strangers and Brothers\" series of novels) that technical and scientific expertise was mushrooming, to a point at which the \"good all-rounder\" culture of the administrative civil servant with a classics or other arts degree could no longer properly engage with it: as late as 1963, for example, the Treasury had just 19 trained economists. The times were, moreover, ones of keen respect for technocracy, with the mass mobilisation of war having worked effectively, and the French National Plan apparently delivering economic success. And there was also a feeling which would not go away, following the war and the radical social reforms of the 1945 Labour government, that the so-called \"mandarins\" of the higher civil service were too remote from the people. Indeed, between 1948 and 1963 only 3% of the recruits to the administrative class came from the working classes, and in 1966 more than half of the administrators at undersecretary level and above had been privately educated.\n\nLord Fulton's committee reported in 1968. He found that administrators were not professional enough, and in particular lacked management skills; that the position of technical and scientific experts needed to be rationalised and enhanced; and that the service was indeed too remote. His 158 recommendations included the introduction of a unified grading system for all categories of staff, a Civil Service College and a central policy planning unit. He also said that control of the service should be taken from the Treasury, and given to a new Department, and that the \"fast stream\" recruitment process for accessing the upper echelons should be made more flexible, to encourage candidates from less privileged backgrounds. The new Department was set up by Prime Minister Harold Wilson's Labour Government in 1968 and named the Civil Service Department, known as CSD. The first Minister was Cabinet Minister Lord Shackleton, also Leader of the House of Lords and Lord Privy Seal. The first Permanent Secretary was Sir William Armstrong, who moved over from his post as Permanent Secretary at the Treasury. After the 1970 General Election, new Conservative Prime Minister Ted Heath appointed Lord Jellicoe in Lord Shackleton's place.\n\nInto Heath's Downing Street came the Central Policy Review Staff (CPRS), and they were in particular given charge of a series of Programme Analysis and Review (PAR) studies of policy efficiency and effectiveness.\n\nBut, whether through lack of political will, or through passive resistance by a mandarinate which the report had suggested were \"amateurs\", Fulton failed. The Civil Service College equipped generalists with additional skills, but did not turn them into qualified professionals as ENA did in France. Recruits to the fast stream self-selected, with the universities of Oxford and Cambridge still producing a large majority of successful English candidates, since the system continued to favour the tutorial system at Oxbridge while to an extent the Scottish Ancient universities educated a good proportion of recruits from north of the border. The younger mandarins found excuses to avoid managerial jobs in favour of the more prestigious postings. The generalists remained on top, and the specialists on tap.\n\nMargaret Thatcher came to office in 1979 believing in free markets as a better social system in many areas than the state: government should be small but active. Many of her ministers were suspicious of the civil service, in light of public choice research that suggested public servants tend to increase their own power and budgets.\n\nShe immediately set about reducing the size of the civil service, cutting numbers from 732,000 to 594,000 over her first seven years in office. Derek Rayner, the former chief executive of Marks & Spencer, was appointed as an efficiency expert with the Prime Minister's personal backing; he identified numerous problems with the Civil Service, arguing that only three billion of the eight billion pounds a year spent at that time by the Civil Service consisted of essential services, and that the \"mandarins\" (senior civil servants) needed to focus on efficiency and management rather than on policy advice. In late 1981 the Prime Minister announced the abolition of the Civil Service Department, transferring power over the Civil Service to the Prime Minister's Office and Cabinet Office. The Priestley Commission principle of pay comparability with the private sector was abandoned in February 1982.\n\nMeanwhile, Michael Heseltine was introducing a comprehensive system of corporate and business planning (known as MINIS) first in the Department of the Environment and then in the Ministry of Defence. This led to the \"Financial Management Initiative\", launched in September 1982 (\"Efficiency and Effectiveness in the Civil Service\" (Cmnd 8616)) as an umbrella for the efficiency scrutiny programme and with a wider focus on corporate planning, efficiency and objective-setting. Progress initially was sluggish, but in due course MINIS-style business planning became standard, and delegated budgets were introduced, so that individual managers were held much more accountable for meeting objectives, and for the first time for the resources they used to do so. Performance-related pay began in December 1984, was built on thereafter, and continues to this day, though the sums involved have always been small compared to the private sector, and the effectiveness of PRP as a genuine motivator has often been questioned.\n\nIn February 1988 Robin Ibbs, who had been recruited from ICI in July 1983 to run the Efficiency Unit (now in No. 10), published his report \"Improving Management in Government: The Next Steps\". This envisaged a new approach to delivery featuring clear targets and personal responsibility. Without any statutory change, the managerial functions of Ministries would be hived off into Executive Agencies, with clear Framework Documents setting out their objectives, and whose chief executives would be made accountable directly (in some cases to Parliament) for performance. Agencies were to, as far as possible, take a commercial approach to their tasks. However, the Government conceded that agency staff would remain civil servants, which diluted the radicalism of the reform. The approach seems somewhat similar to the Swedish model, though no influence from Sweden has ever been acknowledged.\n\nThe Next Steps Initiative took some years to get off the ground, and progress was patchy. Significant change was achieved, although agencies never really achieved the level of autonomy envisaged at the start. By 5 April 1993, 89 agencies had been established, and contained over 260,000 civil servants, some 49% of the total.\n\nThe focus on smaller, more accountable, units revived the keenness of Ministerial interest in the perceived efficiencies of the private sector. Already in the late 1980s, some common services once set up to capture economies of scale, such as the Property Services Agency and the Crown Suppliers, were being dismantled or sold off. Next, shortly after Thatcher left office, in July 1991, a new programme of market-testing of central government services began, with the White Paper \"Competing for Quality\" (Cm 1730). Five-yearly or three-yearly policy and finance reviews of all agencies and other public bodies were instituted, where the first question to be answered (the \"prior options exercise\") was why the function should not be abolished or privatised. In November 1991 the private finance initiative was launched, and by November 1994 the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to it as ‘the funding mechanism of choice for most public sector projects’. In 1995 the decision was taken to privatise the Chessington Computer Centre, HMSO, the Occupational Health & Safety Agency and Recruitment & Assessment Services.\n\nIt was believed with the Thatcher reforms that efficiency was improving. But there was still a perception of carelessness and lack of responsiveness in the quality of public services. The government of John Major sought to tackle this with a Citizen's Charter programme. This sought to empower the service user, by setting out rights to standards in each service area, and arrangements for compensation when these were not met. An Office of Public Service and Science was set up in 1992, to see that the Charter policy was implemented across government.\n\nBy 1998, 42 Charters had been published, and they included services provided by public service industries such as the health service and the railways, as well as by the civil service. The programme was also expanded to apply to other organisations such as local government or housing associations, through a scheme of \"Chartermark\" awards. The programme was greeted with some derision, and it is true that the compensation sometimes hardly seemed worth the effort of claiming, and that the service standards were rarely set with much consumer input. But the initiative did have a significant effect in changing cultures, and paradoxically the spin-off Chartermark initiative may have had more impact on local organisations uncertain about what standards to aim for, than the parent Citizen's Charter programme itself.\n\nThe position of 'Minister for the Civil Service' is not part of the Civil Service as it is a political position which has always been held by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe highest ranking civil servant in the country is the Cabinet Secretary. A subsidiary title that was also held by the incumbent was \"Head of the Home Civil Service\" or more recently sometimes styled \"Head of the Civil Service\", who until recently was also the incumbent Cabinet Secretary and Permanent Secretary of the Cabinet Office. However, following the Coalition Government of David Cameron the three posts were split from the single holder. The last person to hold all three positions together was Gus O'Donnell, Cabinet Secretary, Head of the Home Civil Service and Cabinet Office Permanent Secretary, September 2005 – January 2012. The postholder is responsible for ensuring that the Civil Service is equipped with the skills and capability to meet the everyday challenges it faces and that civil servants work in a fair and decent environment. They also chair the Permanent Secretary Management Group and the Civil Service Steering Board which are the main governing bodies of the Civil Service.\n\nIt was announced on 11 October 2011 that, following O'Donnell's retirement at the end of 2011, the role of Head of the Home Civil Service would be split from the post of Cabinet Secretary. There will additionally be a new, separate, Permanent Secretary to lead the Cabinet Office. After O'Donnell's retirement, Jeremy Heywood replaced him as Cabinet Secretary - serving until 24 October 2018 when he retired on health grounds; Ian Watmore as Cabinet Office Permanent Secretary; and lastly, Bob Kerslake as Head of the Home Civil Service. In July 2014 it was announced that Kerslake would step down and Heywood would take the title of Head of the HCS while John Manzoni would be Chief Executive of the Civil Service. From 24 October 2018 to 4 November 2018, the office of Head of the Home Civil Service was vacant, as Heywood resigned on health grounds. Following Heywood's death, Mark Sedwill was given the additional Civil Service portfolio.\n\nThe PSMG consider issues of strategic importance to the Civil Service as a whole, as well as providing corporate leadership where a single position is required across all government departments. It is chaired by the Head of the Home Civil Service and consists of all first permanent secretaries and other selected permanent secretaries and directors general. This includes the Head of the Northern Ireland Civil Service, and the Head of the Diplomatic Service.\n\nThe CSSB was established in 2007 and meets monthly, Its role is to enhance the performance and reputation of the Civil Service by focusing on specific areas delegated to it by PSMG. The CSSB is chaired by the Head of the Home Civil Service.\n\nThe Civil Service Commissioners are not civil servants and are independent of Ministers, they are appointed directly by the Crown under Royal Prerogative and they report annually to the Queen.\n\nTheir main role is regarding the recruitment of civil servants. They have the responsibility to ensure that all civil servants are recruited on the \"principle of selection on merit on the basis of fair and open competition.\" They maintain a recruitment code on the interpretation and application of that principle, and approve any exceptions to it. They audit recruitment policies and practices within the Civil Service and approve all appointments to the most senior levels of the Civil Service.\n\nThe Commissioners also hear and determine appeals in cases of concern about propriety and conscience raised by civil servants under the Civil Service Code which cannot be resolved through internal procedures.\n\nNorthern Ireland has a separate Commission called the \"Civil Service Commissioners for Northern Ireland\" which has the same role.\n\nThe Home Civil Service is a politically neutral body, with the function of impartially implementing the policy programme of the elected government.\n\nLike all servants of the Crown, civil servants are legally barred from standing for election as Members of Parliament or Members of the European Parliament. Also, under regulations first adopted in 1954 and revised in 1984, members of the Senior Civil Service (the top management grades) are barred from holding office in a political party or publicly expressing controversial political viewpoints, while less senior civil servants at an intermediate (managerial) level must generally seek permission to participate in political activities. The most junior civil servants are permitted to participate in political activities, but must be politically neutral in the exercise of their duties.\n\nAll civil servants are subject to the Official Secrets Acts 1911 to 1989, meaning that they may not disclose sensitive government information. Since 1998, there have also been restrictions on contact between civil servants and lobbyists; this followed an incident known as \"Lobbygate\", where an undercover reporter for \"The Observer\", posing as a business leader, was introduced by a lobbyist to a senior Downing Street official who promised privileged access to government ministers. The Committee on Standards in Public Life, also created in 1998, is responsible for regulation of contacts between public officials and lobbyists.\n\nThe increasing influence of politically appointed \"special advisers\" in government departments can reduce the political neutrality of public administration. In Thatcher's government, Alan Walters was an official adviser from 1981 to 1984, and again in 1989. Walters' criticisms \"of many aspects of Treasury policy, particularly in relation to exchange rate policy\" and Thatcher's refusal to dismiss him led to Nigel Lawson's resignation as chancellor in 1989. Thatcher also claimed that the 1981 budget, which increased taxes during the recession and was criticised by 364 economists, had been devised by Walters.\nIn 2000, then-Prime Minister Tony Blair was criticised for appointing 20 special advisers (compared to eight under his predecessor John Major) and for the fact that the total salary cost of special advisers across all government departments had reached £4 million. In 2001, Stephen Byers, then Secretary of State for Transport, was forced to resign because of the actions of his special adviser Jo Moore, who instructed a departmental civil servant, Martin Sixsmith, that September 11, 2001, would be \"a good day to bury bad news\"; this was seen as inappropriate political manipulation of the Civil Service. In particular, under the administration of Tony Blair, the influence of two Downing Street special advisers, Jonathan Powell and Alastair Campbell, both of whom were given formal power over Downing Street civil servants, provoked widespread criticism.\n\nThe Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government of 2010–2015 had proposed introducing a more American-style system where senior civil servants, such as permanent secretaries, became political appointees. However, this was dropped after it was considered that the existing permanent civil service style was better-suited to the government of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe current civil service code was introduced on 6 June 2006 to outline the core values and standards expected of civil servants. The core values are defined as \"integrity\", \"honesty\", \"objectivity\", and \"impartiality\". A key change from previous values is the removal of \"anonymity\" within the core values. The Code includes an independent line of appeal to the Civil Service Commissioners on alleged breaches of the Code.\n\nThe Civil Service Management Code (CSMC) sets out the regulations and instructions to departments and agencies regarding the terms and conditions of service of civil servants. It is the guiding document which gives delegation to civil service organisations, from the Minister for the Civil Service, in order for them to make internal personnel policies.\n\nThe Civil Service Commissioners' Recruitment Code is maintained by the Civil Service Commissioners and is based on the \"principle of selection on merit on the basis of fair and open competition.\"\n\nThe Osmotherly Rules set out guidance on how civil servants should respond to Parliamentary select committees.\n\nA two-volume 125-page \"Directory of Civil Service Guidance\" was published in 2000 to replace the previous \"Guidance on Guidance\", providing short summaries of guidance on a wide range of issues and pointing to more detailed sources.\n\nThe structure of the home civil service is divided into organisations, grades and professions. Each Secretary of State has a Department which has executive agencies and non-departmental public bodies subordinate to it.\n\nThe grading system used in the civil service has changed many times, and the current structure is made up of two schemes. All senior grades (Deputy Director / Grade 5 level and above) are part of the Senior Civil Service, which is overseen by the Cabinet Office on behalf of the civil service as a whole. Below the Senior Civil Service, each individual department/executive agency can put in place its own grading and pay arrangements, provided they still comply with the central civil service pay and review guidance.\n\nFor other grades many departments overlay their own grading structure, however all these structures must map across to the central government structure as shown below.\n\nAll current grades are marked in and historical grade names are shown \"italics\".\n\nNB – XXX is standing in for\n\nThe \"lingua franca\" is to describe Civil Servants, and in particular their grades, predominanly through a lens of Administrative activity (as in the Current Structure of the table above), but in practice the Civil Service has an always had a number of subdivisions, with the Historic Grades having an additional designator (usually omitted for Senior Managers, but included from Middle and Junior Managers) as shown as \"xxx\", with the major groupings being:\nThe Current Structure identifies a number of distinct professional groupings:\n\nThe BBC television series \"Yes Minister\" and \"Yes Prime Minister\" are a satire on the British civil service and its relationship with government ministers. The portrayal is a caricature of the civil service predominantly characterised through Nigel Hawthorne's Sir Humphrey Appleby. \"The Thick of It\", first broadcast in 2005, is a similar BBC television series that has been called \"the 21st century's answer to Yes Minister\". The series portrays a modernised version of the interactions between the Civil Service and the Government (chiefly in the form of special advisors), as well as the media's involvement in the process. There is a long history of civil servants who are also literary authors, who often comment on their own institutions, including such writers as John Milton, John Dryden, Andrew Marvell, Robert Burns, William Wordsworth and Anthony Trollope.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21967789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21967789", "title": "Congress of Peace in Geneva", "text": "Congress of Peace in Geneva\n\nIn 1867, the French pacifist Charles Lemonnier (1806-1891) convened the Congress of Peace in Geneva, known as the \"International League of Peace and Liberty\". It was ultimately at this conference that it was decided to abolish the sovereignty and international relations of the Holy See, something which Pius IX blamed on secret societies. \n\nAccording to Jasper Ridley, at the 1867 Congress of Geneva, Garibaldi referred to \"that pestilential institution which is called the Papacy\" and proposed giving \"the final blow to the monster\". This was a reflection of the bitterness that had been generated by the struggle against Pope Pius IX in 1849 and 1860, and it was in sharp contrast to the letter that Garibaldi had written to the pope from Montevideo in 1847, before those events.\n\nThe Italian rulers took up residence in the Quirinal Palace, and seized Church property throughout Rome and the rest of Italy, but did not have the political support to seize the Vatican. Even before the fall of Rome, Italian republicans had sought to eliminate the papacy, with Giuseppe Garibaldi seeking international support for that end at an 1867 congress in Geneva, where he proposed: \"The papacy, being the most harmful of all secret societies, ought to be abolished.\"\n\nUnlike the earlier invasions of Italy by Napoleon, when Pope Pius VI died in French captivity, and Pius VII was taken captive for six years, the tension between the Italian state and the Papacy continued for 59 years, during which time the popes refused to leave the Vatican, so as not to give implicit recognition to the authority of that state over Rome and its surroundings by placing themselves under the protection of its officials. While some of the Italian revolutionaries thought that the papacy would disappear without the continuance of the papal states, the popes, relieved of their temporal concerns, grew in stature during their years of \"imprisonment.\" \n\nAfter the Franco-Prussian War (1870–71) the organization reconvened (1873) in Brussels, and David Dudley Field's Proposals for an International Code formed the basis of discussion. In the Western Hemisphere the first Pan-American Conference met in 1889–90 (see Pan-Americanism, movement toward commercial, social, economic, military, and political cooperation among the nations of North, Central, and South America.\n"}
{"id": "14478046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14478046", "title": "Democrat In Name Only", "text": "Democrat In Name Only\n\nDemocrat In Name Only (or DINO) is a pejorative term for any member of the United States Democratic Party deemed insufficiently liberal.\n\nThe term was created as an analogous opposite to the acronym RINO (Republican In Name Only).\n\n"}
{"id": "275589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275589", "title": "Emirate", "text": "Emirate\n\nAn emirate is a political territory that is ruled by a dynastic Arabic or Islamic monarch styled emir. It also means \"kingdom\".\n\nEtymologically emirate or amirate ( ', plural: ') is the quality, dignity, office or territorial competence of any emir (prince, commander, governor etc.). In English, the term is pronounced or in British English and or in American English.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates is a federal state that comprises seven federal emirates, each administered by a hereditary emir, these seven forming the electoral college for the federation's President and Prime Minister. As most emirates have either disappeared, been integrated in a larger modern state or changed their rulers' styles, e.g. to malik (Arabic for king) or sultan, such true emirate-states have become rare.\n\nFurthermore, in Arabic the term can be generalized to mean any province of a country that is administered by a member of the ruling class, especially of a member (usually styled emir) of the royal family, as in Saudi Arabian governorates.\n\nA list of present independent Emirates.\n\n\nA list of emirates that have either ceased to exist, are not recognized and hold no real power, or were integrated into another country and preserved as \"traditional states\" arranged by location and in order of the date of the first leader styled \"emir.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51613509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51613509", "title": "Family homelessness", "text": "Family homelessness\n\nFamily homelessness is the phenomenon of whole family units experiencing homelessness. In some Western countries, such as the United States, family homelessness is a new form of poverty, and a fast growing group of the homelessness population. Some American researchers argue that family homelessness is the inevitable result of imbalanced “low-income housing ratio” where there are more low-income households than there are low-cost housing units. Homeless families are generally thought to be headed by women. In the United States, homeless families make up about a third of all homeless people in the country.\n\nWhile scholars differ on conceptualizations of homelessness, whether it is a just temporary state through which people pass or if it is a permanent trait that emanates from individual characteristics, studies indicate for families, homelessness is a temporary state that is often resolved by the provision of subsidized housing. Similarly, other studies have found that the majority of homeless families stay in homeless shelters for relatively brief periods of time. These families then exit and do not return. About 20 percent have longer stays in shelters, but only a small number of families have repeat stays.\n\nFamily homelessness is thought to have a high proportion of children in foster care.\n\nSocial isolation is thought to be more a consequence than a cause of family homelessness.\n\nSome American researchers argue that social programs that either reduce poverty or increase the supply of affordable housing will be effective in lowering the total number of homeless families.\n"}
{"id": "2122353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2122353", "title": "Forensic identification", "text": "Forensic identification\n\nForensic identification is the application of forensic science, or \"forensics\", and technology to identify specific objects from the trace evidence they leave, often at a crime scene or the scene of an accident. Forensic means \"for the courts\".\n\nPeople can be identified by their fingerprints. This assertion is supported by the philosophy of friction ridge identification, which states that friction ridge identification is established through the agreement of friction ridge formations, in sequence, having sufficient uniqueness to individualize.\n\nFriction ridge identification is also governed by four premises or statements of facts:\n\nPeople can also be identified from traces of their DNA from blood, skin, hair, saliva, and semen by DNA fingerprinting, from their ear print, from their teeth or bite by forensic odontology, from a photograph or a video recording by facial recognition systems, from the video recording of their walk by gait analysis, from an audio recording by voice analysis, from their handwriting by handwriting analysis, from the content of their writings by their writing style (e.g. typical phrases, factual bias, and/or misspellings of words), or from other traces using other biometric techniques.\n\nSince forensic identification has been first introduced to the courts in 1980, the first exoneration due to DNA evidence was in 1989 and there have been 336 additional exonerations since then. Those who specialize in forensic identification continue to make headway with new discoveries and technological advances to make convictions more accurate.\n\nBody identification is a subfield of forensics concerned with identifying someone from their remains.\n\nFeet also have friction ridges like fingerprints do. Friction ridges have been widely accepted as a form of identification with fingerprints but not entirely with feet. Feet have creases which remain over time due to the depth it reaches in the dermal layer of the skin, making them permanent. These creases are valuable when individualizing the owner. The concept of no two fingerprints are alike is also applied to foot creases. Foot creases can grow as early as 13 weeks after conception when the volar pads begin to grow and when the pads regress, the creases remain. When foot crease identification is used in a criminal case, it should be used in conjunction with morphology and friction ridges to ensure precise identification. There is record of foot crease identification used in a criminal case to solve a murder. Sometimes with marks left by the foot with ink, blood, mud, or other substances, the appearance of creases or ridges become muddled or extra creases may appear due to cracked skin, folded skin, or fissures. In order to truly compare morphological feature, the prints of feet must be clear enough to distinguish between individuals.\n\nThe two basic conceptual foundations of forensic identification is that everyone is individualized and unique. This individualization belief was invented by a police records clerk, Alphonse Bertillon, based on the idea that \"nature never repeats,\" originating from the father of social statistics, Lambert Adolphe Jacques Quetelet. The belief was passed down through generations being generally accepted, but it was never scientifically proven. There was a study done intending to show that no two fingerprints were the same, but the results were inconclusive. Many modern forensic and evidentiary scholars collectively agree that individualization to one object, such as a fingerprint, bite mark, handwriting, or ear mark is not possible. In court cases, forensic scientists can fall victim to observer bias when not sufficiently blinded to the case or results of other pertinent tests. This has happened in cases like \"United States v. Green\" and \"State v. Langill\". Also, the proficiency tests that forensic analysts must do are often not as demanding to be considered admissible in court.\n\nForensic DNA analysis can be a useful tool in aiding forensic identification because DNA is found in almost all cells of our bodies except red blood cells. Deoxyribonucleic acid is located in two different places of the cell, the nucleus; which is inherited from both parents, and the mitochondria; inherited maternally. Similar to fingerprints, an individual’s DNA profile and characteristics are unique. Forensic identification using DNA can be useful in different cases such as determining suspects in violent crimes, solving paternity/maternity, and identifying human remains of victims from mass disasters or missing person cases. It is also used to link suspects or victims to each other or to crime scenes. When a sample is located at a crime scene, it must be collected, processed, and transported, along with a chain of custody, to the laboratory for analysis, so that if a DNA profile is generated it can be accepted in court. Proper evidence collection and preservation is crucial to ensure evidence is not being contaminated. Main procedures investigators must use when packaging biological material is allowing the evidence to air dry and then package into paper bags. Plastic bags should never be used on biological evidence because it could degrade DNA or lead to bacterial growth. \n\nDNA can be sourced from biological material such as semen, blood, saliva, feces, urine, teeth, bone, and hair that is left behind from an individual. There are different presumptive and confirmatory tests used for each type of biological material found at a scene. Presumptive tests are quick, sensitive and are relatively specific to bodily fluids that give the analyst an idea of what might be present. Confirmatory tests confirm what the biological sample is. In addition to looking for biological material at a crime scene, pieces of evidence can also be examined and analyzed for the presence of DNA. Evidence pieces that may have the presence of DNA could include clothing, bedding, weapons, masks, gloves, among many others. This is attributed to touch DNA, where only minute samples are left after an object has been touched. It is defined as “evidence with no visible staining that would likely contain DNA resulting from the transfer of epithelial cells from the skin to an object.” A forensic scientist can attempt to obtain a DNA profile from the sample with as few as six cells. \n\nThe first step in the DNA process with a piece of evidence is extraction. Extraction is a technique used to remove the DNA from the cell. The next step would be quantification which determines how much DNA is present. The third step is amplification in order to yield multiple copies of DNA. Next is separation, to separate the DNA out to use for identification. Finally, the analyst can now complete analysis and interpretation of the DNA sample and compare to known profiles. \n\nAn unknown sample found at a crime scene is called a questioned sample. A known sample can be taken either from a suspect or found in a database. The FBI’s database used for DNA is CODIS, Combined DNA Index System. It has data at three levels: local, state, and national. The national level data is stored in NDIS, National DNA Index system. CODIS/NDIS allows analysts to compare their questioned DNA profile among those of arrestees, convicted offenders, and other unknown samples to try and produce investigative leads. If questioned and known samples are similar, statistics and interpretation will then be completed. The DNA profile will be compared to a population database and a random match probability will be determined. Random match probability is defined as the chance that an individual selected randomly from a population will have an identical DNA profile to the markers tested. If they do not equal each other, they are not a match, termed exclusion. \n\nDuring DNA typing, several markers are examined, termed loci. When more markers are examined, this could result in either a greater probability that two unrelated individuals will have different genotypes or adds to the confidence of connecting an individual to an unknown sample.  One locus difference between a questioned and known sample is enough to exclude that suspect as the contributor. \n\nThe FBI has identified 13 core STR loci that are effective for human identification. STR is short tandem repeats which are short DNA regions in the genome and are 2-6 base pairs in length. STR is common in forensic analysis because they are easily amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and they have unique variation among individuals for human identification. PCR is the technique of copying DNA by making millions of copies. When all 13 core loci are tested on a DNA profile, the random match probability is more than one in a trillion. \n\nSince DNA was first used in a criminal investigation in 1986, it has aided investigators to solve many cases. DNA profiling is one of the most important tools in forensics and continued research will increase its ability and accuracy to provide more techniques for the future. \n\nThere are many different applications for wildlife forensics and below are only some of the procedures and processes used to distinguish species.\n\nSpecies Identification: The important of species identification is most prominent in animal population that are illegally hunted, harvested, and traded, such as rhinoceroses, lions, and African elephants. In order to distinguish which species is which, mtDNA, or mitochondrial DNA, is the most used genetic marker because it's easier to type from highly decomposed and processed tissue compared to nuclear DNA. Additionally, the mitochondrial DNA has multiple copies per cell, which is another reason it's frequently used. When nuclear DNA is used, certain segments of the strands are amplified in order to compare those to segments of mitochondrial DNA. This comparison is used to figure out related genes and species proximity since distant relatives of animals are closer in proximity in the gene tree. That being said, the comparison process demands precision because mistakes can easily be made due to genes evolving and mutating in the evolution of species.\n\nDetermination of geographic origin: Determining the origin of a certain species aids research in population numbers and lineage data. Phylogenetic studies are most often used to find the broad geographic area of which a species reside. For example, in California seahorses were being sold for traditional medicinal purposes and the phylogenetic data of those seahorses led researchers to find their origin and from which population they came from and what species they were. In addition to phylogenetic data, assignment tests are used to find the probability of a species belonging to or originating from a specific population and genetic markers of a specimen are utilized. These types of tests are most accurate when all potential population's data have been gathered. Statistical analyses are used in assignment tests based on an individual's microsatellites or Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs). Using microsatellites in these studies is more favorable than AFLPs because the AFLPs required non-degraded tissue samples and higher errors have been reported when using AFLPs.\n\nDomestic animals such as dogs and cats can be utilized to help solve criminal cases. These can include homicides, sexual assaults, or robberies. DNA evidence from dogs alone have helped over 20 criminal cases in Great Britain and the U.S. since 1996. There are only a few laboratories though that are able to process and analyze evidence or data from domestic animals. Forensics can be used in animal attacks as well. In cases like dog attacks, the hair blood, and saliva surrounding the wounds a victim has can be analyzed to find a match for the attacker. In the competitive realm, DNA analysis is used in many cases to find illegal substances in racehorses by urine samples and comparisons of STRs.\n\n\n\nSometimes, manufacturers and film distributors may intentionally leave subtle forensic markings on their products to identify them in case of piracy or involvement in a crime. (\"Cf.\" watermark, digital watermark, steganography. DNA marking.)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42606823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42606823", "title": "Frankfurt Documents", "text": "Frankfurt Documents\n\nFrankfurt Documents were a series of documents which were an important step on the way to the founding of the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nOn July 1, 1948 the representatives of the Western allied occupation forces handed over a number of documents to the prime ministers and two ruling mayors from the western zones of occupation, in which the recommendations were made, including establishing a West German state. The main problem of these recommendations was that they did not provide all-German solution, but only a West German state. The Frankfurt documents formed a working basis for the work on the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany. They were created at the London 6-Power Conference in early 1948.\n\nThe handover took place in the IG Farben Building in Frankfurt am Main, and the documents took the name of this town. The military governors Lucius D. Clay (United States), Marie-Pierre Koenig (France) and Sir Brian Robertson (UK) issued an order establishing a western German state. Present were Peter Altmeier (Rhineland-Palatinate), Karl Arnold (North Rhine-Westphalia), Lawrence Bock (Württemberg-Hohenzollern), Max Brauer (Hamburg), Hans Ehard (Bavaria), Wilhelm Kaisen (Bremen), Hinrich Wilhelm Kopf (Lower Saxony), Hermann Lüdemann (Schleswig-Holstein), Reinhold Maier (Württemberg-Baden), Christian Stock (Hessen) and Leo Wohleb (Baden).\n\nA West German state was to be established under the following conditions:\n\n\nThe Frankfurt Documents prompted the Prime Minister to hold Rittersturz Conference in Koblenz, on the resolutions that were passed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1644176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1644176", "title": "French Cerdagne", "text": "French Cerdagne\n\nFrench Cerdagne (, ) is the northern half of Cerdanya, which came under French control as a result of the Treaty of the Pyrenees in 1659, while the southern half remained in Spain (as part of Catalonia). Catalans often refer to French Cerdagne as Upper Cerdanya (). It is the only French territory in the Iberian Peninsula, as it is on the south side of the Pyrenees range between Spain and France. For example, the Segre river, which goes west and then south to meet the Ebro, has its source in the French Cerdagne. An inadvertent result of the Treaty of the Pyrenees is the Spanish exclave of Llivia (the small uncolored area in the map) which is sovereign Spanish territory completely surrounded by French Cerdagne. \n\nFrench Cerdagne has no special status inside France, simply forming an area within the \"department\" of Pyrénées-Orientales, unlike the Spanish part of Cerdanya, which is officially a Catalan \"comarca\" called simply Cerdanya. In France, the French area is referred to as either \"Cerdagne française\" (i.e. \"French Cerdagne\"), \"Haute Cerdagne\" (i.e. \"Upper Cerdagne\") or just \"Cerdagne\".\n\nFrench Cerdagne has a land area of 539.67 km² (208.37 sq. miles). Its 1999 population was 12,035, resulting in a density of only 22 people per km² (58 per sq. mile).\n\nFrench Cerdagne has the most cloud-free days in France, and was therefore chosen as the place to build:\n\nPopulation at the 1999 French census.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19683207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19683207", "title": "Green left", "text": "Green left\n\nThe term green left is used primarily to refer to a combination of environmentalism, feminism, socialism and pacifism in countries where the term is used. It is primarily a social justice and human rights oriented ideology, with an expansion in focus to the rights of other species. \n\nThe name \"Green Left\" is also used by a variety of organisations which espouse socialist or Marxist principles, but with a greater emphasis on environmental preservation than previous iterations of socialism and communism.\n\nIn Europe, the green left arose partly out of the declining Eurocommunist tendency that has been mostly associated with various communist parties in the continent. As a result, many former communist parties and remnants of communist parties were either reestablished or fused into existing green parties.\n\nFar-left political parties or joint electoral lists have been formed over the years, most often between Marxist and radical greens. In the Netherlands, the GroenLinks party was formed in 1989 by a merger of a communist, pacifist, left-wing Christian and green parties. In December 2007, an Italian electoral coalition of the radical left was formed known as The Left – The Rainbow, comprising Federation of the Greens, two communist parties and a small democratic socialist party.\n\nThe green left has also been prominent in the green politics outside of Europe, especially in the United States, Australia and New Zealand, although these green parties may involve themselves in alliances with otherwise conservative political organisations in blue–green alliances.\n\n"}
{"id": "799724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=799724", "title": "Guardians of the Cedars", "text": "Guardians of the Cedars\n\nThe Guardians of the Cedars (GoC') (Arabic: حراس الأرز; \"Ḥurrās al-Arz\"; French: \"Gardiens du Cedre\" or \"Gardiens des Cèdres\", \"GdC\"') are a far-right ultranationalist Lebanese party and former Christian militia in Lebanon. It was formed by Étienne Saqr (also known with the kunya or \"nom de guerre\" \"Abu Arz\" or \"Father of the Cedars\") and others along with the Lebanese Renewal Party in the early 1970s. It operated in the Lebanese Civil War under the slogan: \"Lebanon, at your service.\"\n\nThe Guardians of the Cedars started to form a militia in the years leading up to the Lebanese Civil War and commenced military operations in April 1975.\n\nIn September 1975, Communiqué No. 1 was issued to denounce advocates of the partition of Lebanon. The second communiqué contained a bitter attack on the Palestinians. The third articulated the party's attitude on the issue of Lebanese identity: Lebanon should dissociate itself from Arabism. The party spread its messages by means of graffiti in East Beirut, including slogans against Syria, the \"Palestinian Resistance\", and Pan-Arabism, sometimes with violent anti-Palestinian tones, as in the slogan على كل لبناني ان يقتل فلسطينياً (\"It is a duty for each Lebanese to kill a Palestinian\").\n\nThe Guardians of the Cedars joined other pro-status quo, mainly Christian Lebanese militias in 1976 to form the Lebanese Front.\n\nIn March 1976, they confronted Palestinian and leftist forces in West Beirut. A Guardians unit was also dispatched to Zaarour, above the mountain road to Zahlé, to support Phalangist forces. In April, Guardian fighters held a line in the area of Hadath, Kfar Shima, and Bsaba, south of Beirut, against a coalition of Palestinian, PSP, and SSNP forces.\n\nIn the summer of 1976, the Guardians were among the first militias to assault Tel al-Zaatar, the last remaining Palestinian refugee camp in east Beirut. The camp fell after a 52-day siege.\n\nThe actions of the Guardians and their allies following the capture of the camp have been widely reported as amounting to a massacre of many of its civilian inhabitants. During this battle, Saqr led a unit of Guardians force to Chekka, where Christian civilians were being sieged by leftist-Palestinian forces, and fought off the Palestinian forces.\n\nThe Guardians and allied Christian militias then invaded the Koura region in northern Lebanon and reached Tripoli, to support Christian residents trapped by fighting. In 1978 as part of the Lebanese Front they did small attacks on the Syrian army in Beirut and again in 1981 in the Battle of Zahle. This came after the alliance between the Phalanges and most Christian groups with the Syrians had taken a twist.\n\nDuring the war, the Guardians earned a reputation for specializing in cruelty. Militia members usually tied Palestinian prisoners to the backs of taxis and then dragged them up the motorway into Jounieh. Their carcasses would then be flung into a dried-up riverbed. Commanding his followers to slay all Palestinians, Saqr once stated, \"If you feel compassion for the Palestinian women and children, remember they are communists and will bear new communists\".\n\nIn 1985 the Guardians of the Cedars mounted a fierce defense of Kfar-Fallus and Jezzine, battling Palestinians and Shiite-Druze militias and protected thousands of Christians in South Lebanon.\n\nTowards the close of the 1980s, and continuing to 2000, most of the remaining fighting in Lebanon occurred in the south, inside the Israeli-occupied zone, under the Southern-Lebanese-Army influence led by Saad Haddad and later by Antoine Lahd, the latter who had close ties with the National Liberal Party (Al Ahrar in Arabic). The Guardians and other militias were largely reorganized into the South Lebanon Army, preserving much of the early ideology while adopting new military tactics.\n\nThe LRP militia began to be quietly raised in 1974 by Sakr in his capacity as president of the Party, though it was only in September 1975 when they made their existence public in an official communiqué as the Guardians of the Cedars. Headquartered at the main LRP party' Offices in Ashrafieh and personally commanded by Sakr, the GoC initially numbered some 500 men and women trained by Kayrouz Baraket, a young Lebanese Army officer, and equipped with obsolete firearms purchased on the black market. Although the membership of the GoC was exclusively Maronite, Sakr allegedly maintained a loyal personal bodyguard made up of Lebanese Shia Muslims, but little is known about them. The collapse of the Lebanese Army in January 1976 allowed Sakr to recruit army deserters and seize some heavy equipment from its barracks and Internal Security Forces (ISF) Police stations, swelling the GoC ranks to 3,000-6,000 uniformed militiamen armed with modern small-arms. \nBesides being provided with funds and training by the Kataeb Party and the Al-Tanzim, the Guardians also claimed to have received direct aid from Israel as early as 1974. They were the only faction of the Lebanese Front that never received any military aid from Syria, which is hardly surprising, given their strong anti-Syrian views.\n\nThey fielded a mechanized force consisting of a single M50 Super Sherman medium tank, some M113 armored personnel carriers, a few M42 Duster SPAAGs and Chaimite V200 armoured cars backed by gun-trucks or technicals. The latter consisted of Land-Rover series II-III, Toyota Land Cruiser (J40), Dodge Power Wagon W200, Jeep J20 pickup trucks, GMC Sierra Custom K25/K30, Chevrolet C-10 Cheyenne and Chevrolet C-20 Scottsdale light pickups, plus US GMC C7500 heavy-duty trucks and M35A1 2½-ton 6x6 cargo trucks fitted with heavy machine guns (HMGs), recoilless rifles and anti-aircraft autocannons.\n\nIn stark contrast to other Christian factions, the LRP/GoC despised any illegal activities such as drug-trafficking, extortion or looting, and their leader Sakr never sought to establish an autonomous personal fiefdom. Although the Guardians' claimed that they did not center their military operations on 'turf', they did maintained strongholds at the Maronite quarters of East Beirut, the adjacent Matn District (Laqluk, near Akoura), the Batroun District (Tannourine), the eastern Keserwan District (Ayoun es-Simane) and the Jabal Amel region (Kfar-Fallus, Jezzine, Marjayoun, Qlaiaa, Ain Ebel and Rumeish). In May 1979 they even clashed with the NLP Tigers Militia in Beirut for control of the Furn esh Shebbak and Ain el-Rammaneh districts, and for the town of Akoura in the Matn.\n\nThe Guardians hold to several key beliefs:\n\nThis has led the Guardians of the Cedars to maintain that Lebanese people are not Arabs. The political consequence of this stance advocates the 'de-Arabization' of Lebanon. Similarly, followers draw a distinction between Arabic and 'Lebanese', aiming to restore the form created by Lebanese philosopher Said Akl. The Guardians of the Cedars have adopted positions hostile to Pan-Arabism. This is believed to be the main reason why they did not grow as a party in Lebanon outside the Maronite community.\nSaqr himself had fought against pan-Arab forces back in the Lebanon Crisis of 1958. During that time Camille Chamoun entered Lebanon in the Baghdad Pact led by the US, but faced stiff resistance from a huge section of the Lebanese people, and this later led to the failure of this alliance.\n\nAfter heavy Palestinian involvement in the Lebanese Civil War, the Guardians cultivated ties with the Israeli military, receiving weapons and support. Some followers maintain that this was a collaboration of necessity, and not an ideological agreement with the Israelis. Others disagree, claiming that collaboration with Israel was based on the conviction that there was a commonality of interest between the two countries. Other similarly aligned militias, such as the Phalangists, Ahrar and the Tigers, also cooperated semi-secretly with Israel. This cooperation was later emphasized by Saqr who said: \"Lebanon's power is in Israel's power, and Lebanon's weakness lies in Israel's weakness\".\n\nThis alliance with Israel played a major role in banning the party, and expelling its members who mostly fled to Israel. Saqr who now lives in Nicosia Cyprus has since admitted that Israel has been funding the group throughout its existence, even before the war began. Saqr is now considered as a traitor to the Lebanese government, alongside the likes of Antoine Lahad who resides in Tel Aviv under Mossad protection.\n\nAccording to an Israeli military observer Haim 'Arev, the soldiers of the Guardians of the Cedars were the best and most experienced fighters among the militias that constituted the Lebanese Front. He draws a direct connection between the patriotic ideology of the Guardians and the superior battle capacity of their fighters. He states that while the Guardians were among the smaller parties of the Lebanese Civil war, it's idealistic men and women were soldiers of the best caliber. Later, in Southern Lebanon, the Guardians fighters had a reputation for being exceptionally motivated and among the toughest fighters in the ranks of the SLA.\n\nThe Front of the Guardians of the Cedar – FGoC (Arabic: الجبهة لحراس الأرز transliteration \"Al-Jabhat li-Hurras el-Arz\"), sometimes known by its Arabic acronym, JIHA, was a pre-dominantly Christian right-wing grouping that appeared in 1974. Apparently a splinter of the Guardians of the Cedars, they held similar views to those of this party – expressed just prior to the war in anti-Palestinian graffiti bearing the 'JIHA' signature scrubbed in the walls of east Beirut's buildings – very little is known about this small and obscure organization. Estimated at about 100 members, the JIHA operated mainly in the eastern sector of the Lebanese Capital during the 1975-77 phase of the Lebanese Civil War, but nothing was heard from them afterwards. It is assumed that they might have been re-absorbed into the GoC or by the Lebanese Forces in 1977.\n\nThe Lebanese Renewal Party – LRP (Arabic: حزب التجدد اللبناني transliteration \"Hezb al-Tajaddud al-Lubnani\") or Parti de la Renovation Libanaise (PRL) in French, is a banned political party in Lebanon formed in 1972 as the political arm of the paramilitary force known as the Guardians of the Cedars. It is often characterized as right-wing extremist, but by its followers as a patriotic nationalist movement. The party is still led by its founder, Étienne Saqr (Abu Arz).\n\nIt was formed by right-wing activists opposed to the presence of the Palestinian refugees in Lebanon. The refugee population also included a substantial element of Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) fighters, especially after the 1970 Black September events in Jordan. This created severe tension in Lebanon, and is believed by many to have been a driving factor behind the outbreak of civil war in 1975.\n\nDuring the Lebanese Civil War, the party and its militia were a small but active part of the Maronite-led alliance fighting the Palestinians represented by the Rejectionist Front and PLO, and its allies in the Lebanese National Movement (LNM) of Kamal Jumblatt. During the early fighting in the war, the party was implicated in the massacres of Karantina and Tel al-Zaatar. In 1977, the main Christian-backed militias (LRP plus the National Liberal Party and the Kataeb Party) formed the Lebanese Front coalition. Their militias joined under the name of the Lebanese Forces, but the Lebanese Forces soon fell under the command of Bashir Gemayel and the Phalange. The Lebanese Renewal Party (LRP) and the Guardians of the Cedars were uncompromisingly opposed to the Syrian occupation of Lebanon.\n\nAfter the 1982 Lebanon War the party cooperated with Israel Defense Forces, and its militia joined the South Lebanon Army (SLA). After the withdrawal of Israel from Lebanon in 2000, most of the leadership fled to Israel. The group was banned by the Syrian-dominated government and decided to give up its arms to become a traditional political party. It remains banned, and is only a minor force in national life. Still, some of the rhetoric used by the LRP in advocating its domestic policies was revived during the Cedar Revolution in 2005, which forced the withdrawal of Syria from Lebanon and led to expectations of political reform.\n\nThe Lebanese Renewal Party is ethnocentric, and believes that Lebanon is not an Arab country. It labored extensively to create or discover non-Arab cultural expressions, and went so far as to design a new alphabet for Lebanese Arabic, which it claims is a language in its own right. Accordingly, the party was staunchly opposed to Pan-Arabism, which was advocated by many in the left-wing Lebanese National Movement (LNM) and Palestinian movements.\n\nAnother distinguishing element of the party's politics was that it advocated cooperation with Israel. While there were several other movements on the Christian side in Lebanon that cooperated with Israel during the war, the LNR was the only organization openly and ideologically committed to this, regarding a Lebanese-Israeli axis as the best protection against Arabism and the Palestinians.\n\nThe GoC was strongly anti-Palestinian, and argued for the forcible removal of all Palestinians and other non-Lebanese (e.g. Syrians) from Lebanon, both civilians and armed fighters. Critics labeled this a call for ethnic cleansing or genocide. GoC leader Saqr summed up the organization's attitude to Palestinians in an interview with the \"Jerusalem Post\" on July 23, 1982:\n\n\"It is the Palestinians we have to deal with. Ten years ago there were 84,000; now there are between 600,000 and 700,000. In six years there will be two million. We can't let it come to that.\" His solution: \"Very simple. We shall drive them to the borders of brotherly Syria ... Anyone who looks back, stops or returns will be shot on the spot. We have the moral right, reinforced by well-organized public relations plans and political preparations.\"\n\nHowever, in contrast to the policies of many other sectarian militias (such as the Kataeb), and to their own attitudes towards Palestinians, the Guardians took some care to avoid the impression of religious conflict. The party, while essentially a Christian militia and in violent conflict with most militias during the war, was formally secularist as it publicly stressed this Secular Nationalist identity.\n\n1989 saw the Guardians once more fighting the Syrians alongside the Lebanese Army in support of the Lebanese government of General Michel Aoun. In a statement in 1990, the GoC greeted the occupation of Kuwait by Saddam Hussein by asserting that \"Arabism is the undisputed lie of the 20th century.\" The Guardians called upon the people to rally around the leadership of General Aoun, and demanded the withdrawal of Lebanon from the Arab League.\n\nAs the Lebanese Civil War drew to a close in 1990, political changes weakened the right-wing movements which had existed in earlier decades. In October 1990, as part of the end of the war, the reorganized Lebanese government forced Prime Minister Aoun out of power under Syrian demands and commands. From this year on, Syria occupied Lebanon until its withdrawal in 2005.\n\nSamir Geagea's Lebanese Forces militia captured Etienne Saqr because he had supported Aoun. During this incident, he suffered an unspecified injury. He was forced to seek refuge in Jezzine, and finally left Lebanon for Europe after Israel pulled its forces out of Lebanon. Several other members of the Guardians are presently wanted by the Lebanese government, in order to answer for war-crimes.\n\nFrom the end of the civil war in 1990 until the Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon in 2000 the Guardians of the Cedars formed an element of the now-defunct South Lebanon Army. Since that date their military operations have ceased and they operate solely politically, campaigning to remove the Syrian presence in Lebanon. In common with the Christian and Sunni-dominated March 14 Alliance, the party has expressed its support for the Syrian uprising.\n\nToday, the reorganized Guardians of the Cedars is a legal and fully functional political party; lately, the term Movement of Lebanese Nationalism (Arabic: حركة القومية اللبنانية transliterated as \"Harakat al-Qawmiyya al-Lubnaniyya\") abbreviated as MLN was added to its name and it is now known as The Guardians of the Cedars Party - Movement of Lebanese Nationalism (in Arabic حزب حراس الأرز- حركة القومية اللبنانية).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54452732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54452732", "title": "Hostile vehicle mitigation", "text": "Hostile vehicle mitigation\n\nHostile vehicle mitigation (HVM) is a generic term that covers a suite of anti-terrorist protective measures that are often employed around buildings or publicly accessible spaces/venues of particular significance. The design of these various vehicle security barriers and landscape treatments came about as security authorities across the globe sought to mitigate the effects of vehicle borne improvised explosive devices (VBIED). The sorts of places that warrant consideration as potential terrorist targets in need of HVM include: government buildings, airports, large railway stations, sports venues, concentrations of entertainment and crowded night time economy, etc.\n\nCommon types of HVM include locally manufactured barrier systems such as the Jersey Barrier and Bremer T Wall; as well as propriety crash-tested and engineered vehicle bollard systems designed to resist the effects of a vehicle ram attack. HVM can also include adapted hard landscape features, resistive street furniture, sculpture, planters and significant level changes; with a little imagination HVM may be disguised inside architectural features in a street scene.\n\nHVM when installed and fixed correctly is designed to resist hostile vehicle penetration of certain categories of vehicle moving at a range of speeds, these vehicle security barriers undergo various destructive tests carried out be accredited test establishments. The three standards that are generally quoted when specifying HVM performance are:\n\n\nThese standards set roughly similar criteria for destructive impact testing, although there are differences between the three and vehicle geometries in particular are at the root of some of these differences. HVM barrier selection will be conditioned by a hostile vehicle dynamics study carried out by a suitably qualified security specialist.\n\nIdeally a protective layer of HVM should surround the building or place being protected and this HVM protection line should be stood off from the building facade or places expected to be crowded. This protective standoff distance is critical in the case of VBIEDs as 'every metre counts' and often distance is one of the best ways to achieve explosive blast effects mitigation.\nMore recently the focus of HVM has expanded to reduce the potential for vehicle ram attacks directed at crowded events and places. Recent non-VBIED (i.e. vehicle as a weapon) attacks against pedestrians include:\n\n\nHVM can also be used to protect against ram raids which are invariably criminal attacks against high net-worth targets such as jewelers, cash and valuables in transit depots, bullion storage facilities, art galleries, museums, 'high end' fashion stores, etc.\n\nCorrectly installed HVM barrier systems should not adversely affect pedestrian permeability.\n\n"}
{"id": "9167938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9167938", "title": "Houthi insurgency in Yemen", "text": "Houthi insurgency in Yemen\n\nThe Houthi insurgency in Yemen, also known as the Houthi rebellion, Sa'dah War, or Sa'dah conflict, was a military rebellion pitting Zaidi Shia Houthis (though the movement also includes Sunnis) against the Yemeni military that began in Northern Yemen and has since escalated into a full-scale civil war. The conflict was sparked in 2004 by the government's attempt to arrest Hussein Badreddin al-Houthi, a Zaidi religious leader of the Houthis and a former parliamentarian on whose head the government had placed a $55,000 bounty. Initially, most of the fighting took place in Sa'dah Governorate in northwestern Yemen, but some of the fighting spread to neighbouring governorates Hajjah, 'Amran, al-Jawf and the Saudi province of Jizan. Since 2014 the nature of the insurgency has changed with the Houthi takeover in Yemen and then into the ongoing Yemeni civil war (2015–present) with a major Saudi-led intervention in Yemen beginning in 2015.\n\nGeneral Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar commanded the Yemeni security forces during the conflict and led all the government offensives from 2004 until 2011, when he resigned his post to defend protesters during the Yemeni Revolution.\n\nA Houthi power grab in Sana'a escalated on 20 January 2015, when the rebels attacked the president's residence and swept into the presidential palace. President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi was inside the residence as it came under \"heavy shelling\" for half an hour, but he was unharmed and protected by guards, according to Information Minister Nadia Al-Sakkaf. Presidential guards surrendered the residence after being assured that Hadi could safely evacuate. The U.N. Security Council called an emergency meeting about the unfolding events. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon expressed concern over the \"deteriorating situation\" in Yemen and urged all sides to cease hostilities. On 22 January, President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi and Prime Minister Khaled Bahah tendered their resignations to parliament, which reportedly refused to accept them.\n\nIn 1962, a revolution in North Yemen ended over 1,000 years of rule by Zaidi Imams, who claimed descent from the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Sa'dah, in the north, was their main stronghold and since their fall from power the region was largely ignored economically and remains underdeveloped. The Yemeni government has little authority in Sa'dah.\n\nDuring Yemen's 1994 civil war, the Wahhabis, an Islamic group adhering to a strict version of Sunni Islam found in neighboring Saudi Arabia, helped the government in its fight against the secessionist south. Zaidis complain the government has subsequently allowed the Wahhabis too strong a voice in Yemen. Saudi Arabia, for its part, worries that strife instigated by the Zaidi sect so close to Yemen's border with Saudi Arabia could stir up groups in Saudi Arabia itself.\n\nThe conflict was sparked in 2004 by the government's attempt to arrest Hussein Badreddin al-Houthi, a Zaidi religious leader of the Houthis and a former parliamentarian on whose head the government had placed a $55,000 bounty.\n\nHussein Badreddin al-Houthi movement accused Ali Abdullah Saleh of massive financial corruption and criticized him for being backed by Saudi Arabia and United States at the expense of the Yemeni people and Yemen's sovereignty. \n\nWhen armed conflict for the first time erupted in 2004 between the Yemeni government and Houthis, the then Yemeni president accused Houthis and other Islamic opposition parties of trying to overthrow the government and the republican system. The Yemeni government alleged that the Houthis were seeking to overthrow it and to implement Zaidi religious law.\n\nHouthi leaders for their part rejected the accusation by saying that they had never rejected the president or the republican system but were only defending themselves against government attacks on their community. The Houthis said that they were \"defending their community against discrimination\" and government aggression. The Yemeni government has accused Iran of directing and financing the insurgency.\n\nAccording to a February 2015 \"Newsweek\" report, Houthis are fighting \"for things that all Yemenis crave: government accountability, the end to corruption, regular utilities, fair fuel prices, job opportunities for ordinary Yemenis and the end of Western influence.\"\n\nIn an interview with the \"Yemen Times\", Hussein Al-Bukhari, a Houthi insider, said that the Houthis' preferred political system is a republic with elections where women can also hold political positions, and that they do not seek to form a cleric-led government after the model of the Islamic Republic of Iran for \"we cannot apply this system in Yemen because the followers of the Shafi doctrine are bigger in number than the Zaydis.\"\n\nFrom June to August 2004, government troops battled supporters of al-Houthi in the north. Estimates of the dead range from 500 to 1,000. On 10 September, Yemeni forces killed al-Houthi. Since then, the rebellion has been led by one of his brothers, Abdul-Malik al-Houthi, while his father, Badr Eddin al-Houthi, became the group's spiritual leader.\n\nBetween March and April 2005, some 1,500 people were killed in a resurgence of fighting between government forces and supporters of the slain cleric, now calling themselves Houthis.\n\nIn May 2005, the rebels rejected an offer of a presidential pardon by President Ali Abdullah Saleh after their conditions for surrender were refused by the government and minor clashes continued. On May 21, the government released estimates of the impact of the insurgency, announcing that it was responsible for 552 deaths, 2,708 injures, and over US$ 270 million in economic damages.\n\nOn 23 June 2005, the Houthis' military commander Abdullah al-Ruzami surrendered to Yemeni authorities after tribal mediators worked out a deal with the government.\n\nFighting broke out in November 2005 and continued until early 2006. The pro-government Hamdan tribe, led by Sheikh Abdullah al-Awjari, battled with pro-Houthi tribes and Houthis tried to assassinate a Ministry of Justice official in Dhamar . The fighting ended before the Presidential elections that year and in March 2006, the Yemeni government freed more than 600 captured Shī'a fighters. There was no data with regards to casualties in 2006, but they were said to be significantly lower than those of the previous year.\n\nFighting broke out on 28 January 2007, when militants attacked a number of government installations, killing six soldiers and injuring 20 more.\n\nFurther attacks on 31 January left six more soldiers dead and 10 wounded. A further ten soldiers died and 20 were wounded in an attack on an army roadblock near the Saudi Arabian border on 1 February. Though there was no official confirmation of militant casualties in the attacks, government sources claim three rebel fighters were killed in a security operation following the 31 January attacks.\n\nIn February, the government launched a major offensive against the rebels involving 30,000 troops. By 19 February, almost 200 members of the security forces and over 100 rebels had died in the fighting. A further 160 rebels were killed in the subsequent two weeks. A French student was also killed.\n\nA ceasefire agreement was reached on 16 June 2007. The rebel leaders agreed to lay down arms and go into exile in Qatar (by whom the agreement had been mediated), while the government agreed to release rebel prisoners, help pay for reconstruction and assist with IDPs returning home. In total some 1,500 people were killed by the conflict in 2007, including 800 government troops, 600 rebels and 100 civilians.\n\nArmed incidents resumed in April 2008, when seven Yemeni soldiers died in a rebel ambush on 29 April. On 2 May, 15 worshippers were killed and 55 wounded in a bombing at the Bin Salman Mosque in Sa'dah as crowds of people left Friday prayers. The government blamed the rebels for the bombing, but the Houthis denied responsibility. Shortly after the attack, three soldiers and four rebels died in overnight skirmishes.\n\nOn 12 May, clashes between Yemeni soldiers and rebels near the border with Saudi Arabia killed 13 soldiers and 26 rebels. During fighting in May 2008, a total of 1,000 government forces were killed and 3,000 injured. Some 70,000 people were displaced by the fighting. President Saleh declared an end to fighting in the northern Sa'dah governorate on 17 July 2008.\n\nOn 11 August 2009, the government promised to use an \"iron fist\" against the rebels. The Yemeni troops, backed by tanks and fighter aircraft, launched a fresh offensive, code-named Operation Scorched Earth, against the Houthis in the northern Sa'ada province. Hundreds of thousands of people were displaced by the fighting.\n\nOn 17 September, more than 80 people were killed in an air raid on a camp for displaced people in northern Yemen.\n\nThe conflict took on an international dimension late in the month. Clashes were reported between the Houthis and Saudi security forces near the border. Also, Yemeni officials captured a boat in the Red Sea that was transporting anti-tank shells and, according to some reports, five Iranian \"instructors\" sent to help the Houthis. Various official Iranian sources responded, calling this claim a politically motivated fabrication, and stating that the ship was traveling for business activities carrying no consignment. In early November the rebels stated that Saudi Arabia was permitting Yemeni army units to launch attacks from across the border at a base in Jabal al-Dukhan, charges which were denied by the Yemeni government. In late October, heavy clashes in the area of Razih led to the Houthis capturing two military headquarters and killing Yemeni General Amr Ali Mousa Al-Uuzali. In early November, General Ali Salem al-Ameri and regional security chief Ahmed Bawazeir were killed in a Houthi ambush as they were returning from Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe conflict took on an international dimension on 4 November 2009 when the Houthis attacked the Saudi border, killed one of the Saudi border guards, seized Al Khubah Village and other villages. The Houthis accuse Saudi Arabia of supporting the Yemeni government in attacks against them. It was not clear what type of support they meant. The Saudi government denied this. The rebels shot dead a Saudi security officer in a cross-border attack. The rebels took control of a mountainous section inside Saudi Arabia, in the border region of Jabal al-Dukhan and occupied two villages inside Saudi territory. The houthis had entered Saudi territory and attacked patrols, and that a second soldier later died from wounds sustained in the same clash. On 5 November, Saudi Arabia responded by launching heavy air strikes on rebels in northern Yemen, and moved troops nearer the border. Saudi government officials said only that the air force had bombed Yemeni rebels who had seized a border area inside the kingdom, which they said had now been recaptured. The officials said at least 40 rebels had been killed in the fighting. The Saudi government adviser said no decision had yet been taken to send troops across the border, but made clear Riyadh was no longer prepared to tolerate the Yemeni rebels. The Saudi assault continued the following day, as Saudi residents near the southern border of Jizan Province were evacuated. At the same time, a Houthi spokesman reported to the media that they had captured Saudi troops. On 16 November, Yemen forces killed two Houthi commanders, Abbas Aaida and Abu Haider. On 19 November, Yemeni forces took control of al-Malaheez, killing the local commander Ali al-Qatwani.\n\nHouthi leaders claim that United States involvement in the war started on 14 December 2009 when the US launched 28 air raids. At least 120 people were killed and 44 injured by the alleged US air raids on the regions of Amran, Hajjah and Sa'dah in northern Yemen. Houthis claimed air raids on 18 December killed 63 civilians, including 28 children and injured at least 90 people. U.S. President Barack Obama claimed he had authorised the strikes against al-Qaeda. On 20 December, Saudi air strike killed some civilians. According to a spokesman for the Houthis, a Saudi attack killed 54 people in the town of Al Nadheer in the northern province of Sa'dah. The group also claimed that Saudi forces were advancing on the nearby town of Zawa, also in Sa'dah, and had fired more than 200 shells.\n\nOn 22 December, the Houthis stated that they managed to repulse Saudi Arabian forces trying to infiltrate into the province of Sa'dah, killing an unspecified number of Saudi soldiers in a battle in the border region.\n\nThe fighting between Yemeni and Saudi forces and Houthis killed at least 119 Yemeni government forces, 263 Houthis, 277 civilians and 7 foreign civilians. Saudi casualties were confirmed at 82 at the time. With more soldiers killed in subsequent clashes and missing soldiers being found dead, however, the casualties rose to 133 killed by 22 January 2010. The number of missing was put at six.\n\nIn early January 2010, the Houthis chose the Iraqi cleric Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani to mediate in their political standoff with the Yemeni government and to find a solution to the conflict. This choice was criticized by Saudi cleric Mohammad al-Arifi, a preacher at Riyadh's central mosque, who dismissed al-Sistani as \"an infidel and debauched.\" The remarks by the Saudi cleric were considered extremely insulting by Shi'as around the world, causing major outrage in some Shi'a dominant countries like Iraq, Iran and Lebanon.\n\nOn 13 January 2010, Operation Blow to the Head was launched in an attempt by the government to capture the city of Sa'adah. Security forces claimed they killed 34 and arrested at least 25 Houthis, as well as killing al-Qaeda in Yemen leader Abdullah al-Mehdar in the next two weeks of fighting.\n\nOn 25 January 2010, the Houthis offered a truce. Houthi leader Abdul Malek al-Houthi said they would stop fighting to prevent further civilian casualties and the withdrawal was a gesture for peace, but warned that if the Saudis were to continue fighting the Houthis would go over into open warfare. A Saudi general announced that the Houthis had stopped fighting and were not on Saudi land anymore and that in response the Saudis also stopped fighting saying, \"The battle has ended by God's will.\" But the Saudi king denied the Houthis had withdrawn saying they were forced out, and declared military victory for the end of their conflict with the Houthis. There have however been allegations that the Saudis launched new air raids on 29 January, thus breaking the truce.\n\nOn 1 January the Yemeni government offered a conditional cease-fire. The cease-fire had five conditions which were the re-establishment of safe passage on roads, the surrender of mountain strongholds, a full withdrawal from all local authority property, the return of all military and public equipment seized during hostilities and the release of all the detained civilians and soldiers. On 30 January, Abdel-Malek al-Houthi released a video wherein he blamed the government for the recent round of fighting but said that: \"Nevertheless, and for the fourth time, I announce our acceptance of the [government's] five conditions [for an end to the conflict] after the aggression stops ... the ball is now in the other party's court.\" After the truce was accepted on 30 January, however, there were still some clashes between the Houthis and both Saudi and Yemeni forces. Therefore, on 31 January the Yemeni government rejected the truce and launched a new round of attacks, killing 24 people.\n\nIn April, Houthi spokesman Mohammed Abdulsalam declared that rebels had captured the Manaba district in Sa'dah, with little government resistance. Government troops declared they had killed 30 Houthis who had tried to penetrate into Harf Sufyan District.\n\nOn July 17, 2010, the Houthis warned on their website that the government was preparing for another offensive against the Houthis. They said the government had been digging trenches from the Sana'a to Sa'ada. They claimed the army was trying to amass servicemen in villages and that soldiers in Amshia Bsfian region were creating an army stronghold on Mount Guide. The report came as the Yemeni government blamed Houthi fighters for recent ethnic clashes which had killed 11 people, including two soldiers, and for the kidnapping of two people in a market. The Houthis have denied these allegations and have claimed that it was the work of the government.\n\nOn July 20, 2010, clashes broke out between Houthis and members of an army-backed tribe, led by Sheikh Sagheer Aziz, in the region of Souffian. A Houthi commander declared that the clashes had broken out because of Yemeni Army attacks on Houthis and local pro-Houthi tribes. Forty-nine people were reported killed in the clashes, including 20 tribal and 10 Houthi fighters. The Houthis also managed to surround the Yemeni military bases in the region. Over the following days the Yemeni army and pro-government Bin Aziz tribes continued to clash with the Houthis. The government claimed that in the following two days, 20 fighters were killed on each side. A Houthi spokesman denied these claims, stating only three Houthi fighters had been killed in the clashes. Both sides have blamed each other for starting the clashes. The UN expressed great concern about the situation in North Yemen.\n\nOn July 23, Houthi spokesman Vayf-Allah al-Shami said calm had returned to the region and that a government committee was trying to mediate a cease-fire between the Houthis and the Bin Aziz tribes in the Souffian region.\n\nOn July 27, Houthis seized a military post at al-Zaala in Harf Sufyan, capturing 200 soldiers of the army's Republican Guard. Tribal sources claimed they had inflicted 200 fatalities on the Houthis in al-Amsheya while suffering only 30 dead themselves. Houthi spokesman Abdul Salam denied the high number of killed and said the claims were highly exaggerated. Houthis said they recovered the bodies of 17 of their fighters, including that of rebel commander Abu Haidar, near the house of Sheikh Saghir Aziz in Al-Maqam, near Al-Zaala.\n\nOn July 29, the Houthis released the 200 soldiers they had captured as a goodwill gesture. In total some 70 people had died since the clashes started.\n\nOn November 22, one soldier was killed and two wounded in a roadside bombing. The next day 23 Houthi fighters and supporters were killed and 30 injured by a car bomb targeting a Shi'a religious procession in al-Jawf province. On November 26, two Shi'a mourners were killed and eight injured by a bomb while on their way to Sa'adah city to attend Badreddin al-Houthi's funeral.\n\nIn total, between 195 and 281 people were killed during this round violence, with the majority of the casualties on the Houthi side.\n\nA major demonstration by over 16,000 protestors took place in Sana'a on 27 January. On 2 February, President Saleh announced he would not run for reelection in 2013 and that he would not pass power to his son. On 3 February, 20,000 people protested against the government in Sana'a, and others in Aden, in a \"Day of Rage\" called for by Tawakel Karman. On the same day, soldiers, armed members of the General People's Congress and many others held a pro-government counter-demonstration in Sana'a.\n\nOn February 27, Abdul Malik al-Houthi announced support for the pro-democracy protests and the effort to effect regime change, as had happened in Tunisia and Egypt. Following these statements, large crowds of Houthis joined in protests across Northern Yemen.\n\nHouthi fighters entered Sa'ada on March 19, engaging in a drawn out battle with the pro-government forces of Sheikh Uthman Mujalli. They seized control of the city on March 24, after destroying Sheikh Mujalli's house and forcing the local governor to flee. The Houthis established military checkpoints at the entrances to the city after police deserted their posts and were relocated to army camps elsewhere.\n\nOn March 26, Houthi rebels declared the creation of their own administration in Saada Governorate, independent from Yemeni authorities. A former arms dealer was appointed governor by the Houthis, the previous governor having fled to Sanaa.\n\nOn July 8, 23 people were killed in fighting between the Houthis and the opposition Islah party in al-Jawf governorate. The fighting erupted after the governor of al-Jawf fled, opposition tribes took control of the governorate, and the Houthis refused to hand over a Yemeni military base which they had seized several months earlier. Fighting continued until July 11, with more than 30 people killed. The Houthis claimed that some elements of the pro-Islah militias had links to al-Qaeda.\n\nOn July 28, over 120 people were killed as the Houthis launched an offensive to take over government buildings in al-Jawf. Fighting in Jawf lasted for four months, in which time Sunni tribes claimed to have killed 470 Houthis, while acknowledging 85 casualties of their own. The Houthis eventually took control of al-Jawf governorate.\n\nIn August a car-bombing killed 14 Houthis in al-Jawf.\n\nOn November 9, after several days of heavy fighting, the Houthis managed to break through defense lines of the pro-government Kashir and Aahm tribes in Hajjah Governorate, seizing control of the Kuhlan Ash Sharaf District and advancing towards the port of Midi, thereby gaining access to the sea. Through Hajjah, the Houthis would be able to launch an assault on the Yemeni capital Sana'a. By taking Kuhlan Ash Sharaf, the Houthis managed to gain control over a highway linking San'a to the sea.\n\nOn November 15, clashes between Houthis and Islah party militia restarted in al-Jawf, after an Islah party member tried to blow himself up during the al-Ghadeer festival, in Al Maton District but was captured and killed by the Houthis. A total of 10 people died in the ensuing fighting.\n\nOn December 19, Houthis stormed a Sunni Islamist school in the Shaharah District of 'Amran governorate, injuring one teacher and expelling all teachers and students from the school. Houthis then took up positions inside the school.\n\nOn 23 November, Saleh signed a power-transfer agreement brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council in Riyadh, under which he would transfer his power to his Vice-President within 30 days and leave his post as president by February 2012, in exchange for immunity from prosecution. Although the GCC deal was accepted by the JMP, it was rejected by many of the protesters and the Houthis.\n\nA presidential election was held in Yemen on 21 February 2012. With a reported 65 percent turnout, Abdrabbuh Mansur al-Hadi won 99.8% of the vote, and took the oath of office in Yemen's parliament on 25 February 2012. Saleh returned home the same day to attend Hadi's presidential inauguration. After months of protests, Saleh had resigned from the presidency and formally transferred power to his successor, marking the end of his 33-year rule.\n\nThroughout the year, some 200 people were killed in clashes between Houthis and Salafi militias in Sa'dah province.\n\nOn February 26, 2012, heavy fighting occurred in Hajjah governorate as Houthis fought Sunni tribesmen loyal to the Al-Islah party. At least seven fighters from the Hojjor tribe were killed and nine others injured, while in the Ahem area nine bodies were found, belonging to Houthi fighters. Houthis launched an assault backed by artillery on al-Jarabi area, al-Hazan village, al-Moshaba mountain, and Ahem police station to take control of the al-Moshaba mountain. Parts of the Kushar District were put under siege since clashes erupted in that province between Houthis and the al-Zakari tribe in November. In early February, over 55 people had been killed during sectarian violence in Kushar. During February and March some 27 people were killed and 36 injured due to mines in Hajjah. A total of 600 were killed in clashes in Hajjah between November 2011 and April 2012, mainly in Kushar and Mustaba Districts.\n\nOn March 8, a high-ranking military commander and six of his bodyguards were killed by Houthi gunmen in the northern province of Amran.\n\nOn March 23, a suicide bomber targeted a Houthi march in Sa'dah, no casualties were reported. On March 25, some 14 people were killed and three injured in a car bombing in al-Hazm of al-Jawf province, targeting a Shi'a gathering near a school. Another 8 Houthis were killed in an attack by Salafis on April 21. From June 2 to June 4, Houthis clashed with Salafi militias in Kataf district leaving several dead. Houthis claim to have taken over three Salafi positions and confiscated Saudi weapons during the clash.\n\nOn August 21, clashes broke out between Houthis and tribes in Ash Shahil District of Hajjah after Houthis allegedly shot two women in the district. As the fighting broke out, Houthis retreated from al-Amroor area and retreated to the mountains between Janeb al-Sham and Janeb al-Yemen. Houthis were said to control several mountains in the region including mount Azzan and the governorate center that overlooks al-Mahabishah, Qafl Shamer and Ku'aydinah Districts. A truce was signed between the two sides on August 30. Clashes reignited on September 6 and Houthis managed to seize control of five schools, a medical center and a police station. Some 30 people were killed in the battles. Afterwards Houthis claimed civilian areas were being shelled by al-Islah, while MP Ali al-Ma'amari accused Houthis of killing a worker from Taiz.\n\nIn September and October, Houthis led many protests in Sana'a as part of the 2012 Anti-US protests caused by the release of Innocence of Muslims. Houthi slogans were hung all across the old city of Sana'a and Shi'a majority areas during the protests. This has led to Houthis expanding their control in Sana'a Governorate and other areas around the capital, particularly Khwlan and Sanhan Districts and the town Shibam Kawkaban in al-Mahwit. Al-Juraf district was also named as a Houthi stronghold, where they had large numbers of weapons stationed. Sunni sources have alleged that Houthis have used the protests to smuggle weapons and fighters from areas surrounding Sana'a into Sana'a city itself, mainly in the old city.\n\nDuring one of the protests, in Raydah, Amran, clashes broke out between Houthis and Islahi gunmen after the Islahi gunmen interrupted a Houthi mass rally, denouncing Innocence of Muslims and the US government, on September 21. Two people were killed during the clash and three Islahi gunmen were captured. Fighting continued until September 23, leaving 16 fighters dead and 36 Islah men captured by the Houthis. After a cease-fire was agreed on, Houthis withdrew from the town and released the prisoners they had taken. A group of Houthis remained in Owaidan mosque.\n\nOn 18 August 2014, the Houthis began a series of demonstrations in Sana'a against increased fuel prices. On 21 September, the Houthis took control of Sana'a, after which Prime Minister Mohammed Basindawa resigned and the Houthis signed a deal for a new unity government with other political parties. The protests were marked by clashes between the Houthis and the government and also clashes between the Houthis and al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. At least 340 people were killed on the outskirts of the Yemeni capital in one week of fighting between the Shiite rebels and Sunni militiamen before the city fell. The new government was sworn in on 9 November, although the Houthis and General People's Congress announced they would not take part.\n\nA spokesman for the Houthi group has accused Yemen's President Hadi of arming members of Al-Qaeda in the Marib province, east of the country, in order to create a new security crisis.\n\nThe crisis intensified as Houthi militants attacked the presidential palace and private residence in January 2015, quickly seizing control of both. On 22 January, President Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi and his ministers resigned. The Houthis declared themselves in full control of the government on 6 February, dissolving parliament and putting a Revolutionary Committee led by Mohammed Ali al-Houthi in charge of the country.\n\nHadi escaped from house arrest on 21 February and made his way to Aden, where he renounced his resignation, condemned the Houthi takeover, and attempted to reassemble his government. He declared Aden to be Yemen's provisional capital.\n\nFighting broke out over Aden International Airport on 19 March after Hadi dismissed a general in Aden, Abdul-Hafez al-Saqqaf, whom he suspected of being loyal to Ali Abdullah Saleh, widely believed to be an ally of the Houthis. The next day, a quadruple suicide bombing ripped through two mosques in Sana'a while hundreds of Houthis were praying there. The Revolutionary Committee declared a \"state of general mobilisation\" in response to the events and launched a military offensive directed at Hadi's holdouts, whom the Houthis accused of being in league with al-Qaeda.\n\nSince the clashes at the airport and the Houthis' southward offensive, the media has increasingly described the deteriorating situation in Yemen and the escalating clashes between the two factions claiming to represent the legitimate government as a civil war.\n\nSeveral states led by Saudi Arabia also mounted a military intervention in Yemen codenamed \"Operation Decisive Storm\". The Saudi-led coalition sided with Hadi's government in Aden, shelling Houthi positions from land and sea and hitting them with airstrikes.\n\nOn May 19, 2017 Saudi Arabia intercepted a Houthi-fired ballistic missile targeting, a deserted area south of the Saudi capital and most populous city Riyadh. This missile attack was followed by another one on 27 October 2016, allegedly aimed towards the Holy Mosque in Mecca (\"Makkah Al-Mukarramah, the prayer direction of Muslims and the Cradle of Revelation\"), which was condemned by a special Emergency Meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Member States of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on 17 November 2017.\n\nOn 19 December 2017, a direct attack on Riyadh by another ballistic missile was intercepted, allegedly\"Iranian-made\", launched by\"Iranian-supported rebels\" and aimed at the Saudi royal palace.\nAnother special Extraordinary Meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Member States of the OIC on 21 January 2018 in Jeddah condemned the attack, decrying it as an aggression on \nthe KSA, and taking it as \"evidence of the Iranian-backed Houthi militias' refusal to cooperate with the international community and accept international resolutions\", referring to the resolution adopted in the Mecca Conference in November 2016 and relevant UN Security Council resolutions.\n\nThere have been a number of allegations that Iran and Hezbollah have intervened to aid the Houthis, including:\n\nSaudi Arabia has led a major military intervention in Yemen, and organized a coalition of other nations to support its efforts, including Egypt, Jordan, Sudan, and Bahrain.\n\nIn December 2009, \"The New York Times\" reported that the United States has provided weapons and logistical support to Yemeni government strikes against suspected hide-outs of Al Qaeda within its borders. The officials said that the American support was approved by President Obama and came at the request of the Yemeni government.\n\nHouthi leaders however claim that US involvement started on 14 December when the US launched 28 air raids. At least 120 people were killed and 44 injured by the alleged US air raids on the regions of Amran, Hajjah and Sa'ada in North Yemen, a Houthi leader was quoted as saying: \"The US air force perpetrated an appalling massacre against citizens in the north of Yemen as it launched air raids on various populated areas, markets, refugee camps and villages along with Saudi warplanes, The savage crime committed by the US air force shows the real face of the United States. It cancels out much touted American claims of human rights protection, promotion of freedoms of citizens as well as democracy.\" The Houthi claimed that new air raids on 18 December killed 63 civilians, including 28 children and injured at least 90 people.\n\nOn June 17, 2011, following Friday prayers, tens of thousands of protestors rallied in Sa'dah against US interference in Yemen.\n\nThe Houthis blamed US intelligence forces of carrying out a bombing in August 2011 which killed 14 Houthi fighters.\n\n\nIn April 2008, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimated that the conflict had created 77,000 internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Sa'dah Governorate. By order of then king Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, the Saudis were to shelter and build 10,000 new homes for the war-displaced people.\n\nUNICEF and Islamic Relief were reported as condemning Houthi rebels for abusing children by forcing them to fight for their cause. In November 2009, over 400 children walked to the UNDP office in Sana'a, to protest against the alleged Houthi abuse of children's rights.\n\nAllegations were made that both the Yemeni government and the Houthi rebels exploited the use of child soldiers during the war. Human Rights Watch noted difficulty in citing the exact numbers of child soldiers on the Houthis' part. However, there existed a significant amount of evidence that the government itself employed child soldiers in the ranks of the armed forces, the result of the country's lack of birth certificates and further documentation of age. Where the Yemeni government was limited by restrictions, The Times reported on a fourteen-year-old boy who fought for a tribal militia sponsored by the government.\n\nA Sana'a-based human rights group, Seyaj Organization for Childhood Protection, noted that the Houthis were mainly responsible, stating that fifty-percent of the rebels were under the age of eighteen. It is estimated that anywhere between 400 and 500 children are killed every year in Yemen as the result of tribal conflict. The same organization eventually released a report claiming that 700 children were used as soldiers by the Houthis and pro-government militias during the war. The report concluded that 187 children were killed during the conflict, 71% as the result of the fighting.\n\nThese allegations were supported by the story of \"Akram,\" a nine-year-old boy who was duped by a cousin to deliver a bomb to an unspecified target in the Old City of Saada. Akram, unknowingly wired with an explosive, was apprehended by police and taken to safety in Sana'a, along with his father. A day after telling his story at a press conference Akram's home was bombed in Saada City. His younger brother suffered injuries in the retaliation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37759220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37759220", "title": "List of visitors to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum", "text": "List of visitors to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum\n\nThe Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum is located in Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park, in central Hiroshima, Japan. It was established in August 24, 1955. The vision of the museum is the complete international abolition of all nuclear weapons, and the promotion of world peace. Fifty-three million people had visited the museum from its opening in 1955 through 2005. The number of visitors is over one million per year. Since the museum opened, there have been numerous visits, by heads of state, foreign dignitaries, political figures, peace activists, and various celebrities or other notable figures.\nMessages for Peace left by above visitors can be seen at Museum site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17173969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17173969", "title": "Mahwa Aser", "text": "Mahwa Aser\n\nMahwa Aser is a slum community in San‘a’, the capital city of Yemen. Mahwa Aser is home to an estimated 17,000 people who live in informal housing without access to sanitation. The poor living conditions in the slum have a serious negative impact on the health of residents. There is no school in Mahwa Aser.\n\nIn July 2008, police were deployed in Mahwa Aser to undertake the eviction of residents who had recently moved to the area. There were violent clashes between police and residents. Approximately ten homes were demolished.\n\n"}
{"id": "43349749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349749", "title": "Marxism–Leninism–Maoism", "text": "Marxism–Leninism–Maoism\n\nMarxism–Leninism–Maoism (M–L–M or MLM, formerly known as Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought) is a political philosophy that builds upon Marxism–Leninism and some aspects of Mao Zedong Thought which was first formalised in 1993 by the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement.\n\nMaoism was considered synonymous with Mao Zedong Thought (also known as Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought) from the 1960s onwards—when many anti-revisionist Marxist organisations sided with China following the Sino-Soviet split—until 1993, when the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement (RIM) formalised Marxism–Leninism–Maoism as a new and higher stage of Marxism–Leninism. This caused a split in the Maoist movement, with the adherents of Mao Zedong Thought leaving the RIM and congregating around the International Conference of Marxist–Leninist Parties and Organizations.\n\nBuilding on the theory of the vanguard party by Vladimir Lenin, the theory of the mass line outlines a strategy for the mass popularisation of revolutionary ideology, consolidation of the dictatorship of the proletariat and strengthening of the party and for the building of socialism. The mass line can be summarised by the phrase \"from the masses, to the masses\". It has three components (or stages) as follows:\n\nThese three steps should be applied over and over again, reiteratively uplifting practice and knowledge to higher and higher stages.\n\nPeople's war, a strategy for guerilla warfare, holds the following:\n\nIn a joint document released in 1998, several communist parties affirmed the difference between the specific strategic line of protracted people's war and the more general (and universally applicable) people's war. Protracted people's war is identified as being a specific application of the concept of people's war to countries with a large population (or majority) of peasantry and involving encircling the cities from base areas of communist control in the countryside.\n\nThe issue of applying people's war to fully industrialized first world nations is the subject of much debate. Many organizations, such as the RIM and the Revolutionary Communist Party of Canada in Canada, have put forward that much of a hypothetical people's war in the first world would take place in urban areas.\n\nThe theory of New Democracy holds that the national-bourgeois in semi-feudal and semi-colonial countries has a dual character in that although it is an exploitative capitalist force, it can also (though not always) side with the proletariat against colonialism, imperialism and the comprador-bourgeoisie (whose existence is due to imperialism).\n\nThe role of the national-bourgeoisie as a progressive asset in the proletarian struggle to overthrow imperialism is of course never guaranteed and will eventually turn on the proletariat when the anti-imperialist situation progresses. The Balli Kombëtar in Albania in 1943 and the Kuomintang in China in the 1920s are examples of this. These national bourgeois forces temporarily allied with the proletariat of their countries (the Party of Labour of Albania and the Communist Party of China, respectively) for the overthrow of imperialism but eventually turned on the proletariat once they felt their long-term existence in the new society would be threatened.\n\nMuch like the New Economic Policy in Russia, New Democracy is conceived of as a necessary (but temporary) evil for the long-term development of socialism, or in this case for the construction and consolidation of socialism in the first place. Maoism holds that the national-bourgeois in the New Democratic stage must always be firmly under the command of the proletariat and they must be firmly dispensed with as soon as the national situation allows (in other words, when the contradiction between the comprador class and the people is no longer the primary contradiction of the nation, or when the bourgeois-democratic revolution is at a sufficiently advanced stage) for an outright dictatorship of the proletariat.\n\nMaoists draw heavily from the experiences and lessons of the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution which sought to eradicate the bourgeois that arose within the vanguard party itself and to transform all aspects of the social superstructure. The catchphrase \"class struggle continues, and is intensified, under socialism\" is frequently used.\n\nMaoists hold the primacy of the relations of production over the productive forces, criticise Joseph Stalin's line that bourgeois influence under an advanced stage of socialism is primarily due to external forces (to the almost complete exclusion of internal forces) and strongly reaffirm the base-superstructure dialectic (that the conscious transformation of the base on its own is not enough, but the superstructure must also be consciously transformed).\n\nMaoists state that there are two kinds of countries: imperialist-capitalist ones on one side and oppressed semi-colonial semi-feudal countries on the other side. In the oppressed countries there is a bureaucratic capitalist bourgeoisie, submitted to imperialism. According to this concept, in some oppressed countries the ruling class tries to be expansionist.\n\nMaoists uphold Mao Zedong's philosophical works, particularly his work on dialectics in \"On Contradiction\" and on epistemology in \"On Practice\".\n\nThe three most notable differences between Marxism–Leninism–Maoism and Mao Zedong Thought are the following:\n\nPerhaps the most notable Marxist–Leninist–Maoist international was the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement (RIM). RIM was founded in 1984 and included such organizations as the Communist Party of Peru (PCP), also known as \"Sendero Luminoso\" or \"Shining Path\"; and the then Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), now known as the Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) UCPN(M). Today, the RIM appears to be defunct or near defunct. The magazine associated with the RIM, \"A World to Win\", has not published an issue since 2006, though A World to Win News Service still publishes regularly on the internet. In addition, many of the one-time RIM organizations have become increasingly critical of each other and this has resulted in many public splits.\n\nThe Communist Party of India (Maoist) is a political party which aims to overthrow the government of India. It was founded on 21 September 2004 through the merger of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) People's War and the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCC). The merger was announced to the public on 14 October the same year. In the merger a provisional central committee was constituted, with the erstwhile People's War leader Muppala Lakshmana Rao (alias Ganapathi) as General Secretary. It is currently proscribed as a terrorist organization by the Indian government.\n\nIt is claimed by the Kangleipak Communist Party (Ibungo Ngangom) that Kangleipak (Manipur) was annexed by the Union of India under the guise of Manipur Merger Agreement of 1949. According to this group, which follows a fusion of Marxism and Maoism as its main ideological line, the merger of Manipur with the Union of India was in blatant contradiction of relevant international law as the then king of Manipur no longer had the authority to sign the agreement following the establishment of a democratically elected government. \"Moreover, the then king signed the merger instrument only under duress, or more precisely, at gunpoint and so the so-called Manipur merger agreement was null and void from the very beginning\", claims Ibungo Ngangom, the group's chairman. The group is currently at war with the Union of India and its express primary goal is not only to liberate Kangleipak (Manipur) from the semi-colonial yoke of India, but also to bring about a communist state in Kangleipak through the scientific socialism of Karl Marx.\n\nThe Communist Party of Peru – Shining Path is a guerrilla insurgent organization in Peru. It was founded in 1980 with Abimael Guzmán as its leader. The Shining Path is currently waging a war against the Peruvian government.\n\nThe Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), a national communist party with a revolutionary background, is a follower of Marxism–Leninism–Maoism, although it is believed that the party has developed its own ideology, Marxism–Leninism–Maoism–Prachanda Path, which was developed taking Nepal's political, sociological and geographical constraints into consideration. \n\nThe Communist Party of Nepal is another Marxist–Leninist–Maoist party in Nepal. It claims that the UCPN(M) is a revisionist organization and is continuing the People's War against the UCPN(M) government.\n\nIn the Philippines, the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) and its New People's Army (NPA) has been waging a revolutionary war since 1968. Its strength peaked during the dictatorial rule of Ferdinand Marcos and was the main bulk of the opposition against the dictatorship. However, due to controversies regarding massive purges of its members in the mid-1980s and political miscalculations it suffered several splits within its ranks in 1992 and 1997 forming several separate communist parties. It maintains active guerrilla fronts throughout the Philippines until today and is still considered by the military as the main threat to national security. According to the military, the CPP also allegedly has been leading and influencing legal left-wing political organizations and engages in elections.\n\nThe Marxist–Leninist Party of the Philippines (MLPP), formed by former Central Luzon Regional Committee members of the CPP after the split in 1997 maintained much of the Maoist orientation from the CPP most especially on the concept of people's war. However, it has put equal emphasis on legal political struggles along with armed revolution and it sees the proletariat as the leader of the Philippine revolution in union with the peasantry. The Rebolusyonaryong Hukbo ng Bayan (People's Revolutionary Army, RHB) is the armed wing of the MLPP and according to military intelligence sources is the most active and fastest growing insurgent force in the Philippines recently next to the CPP. Like its estranged political sibling the MLPP is said to be organizing legal organizations but does not engage in electoral processes.\n\nThe Black Panther Party was a proto-Marxist–Leninist–Maoist political party in the United States, requiring all official members to read Mao's \"Little Red Book\".\n\nThe Revolutionary Communist Party was previously a Marxist–Leninist–Maoist political party in the United States. The RCP participated in the founding conference of the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement on 12 March 1984. The RCP signed the \"Declaration of the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement\" and supported the RIM's declaration \"Long Live Marxism–Leninism–Maoism!\" on 26 December 1993 which recognized \"Marxism–Leninism–Maoism as the new, third and higher stage of Marxism\". However, today the RCP uses the term \"New Synthesis\" to describe its ideology and has moved away from Marxism–Leninism–Maoism, although they still call themselves Maoists.\n\nThe RCP is considered to be a revisionist organization by several Maoist groups, such as the Communist Party of India (Maoist), the Revolutionary Communist Party of Canada and several smaller Maoist formations in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11353525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11353525", "title": "Menus-Plaisirs du Roi", "text": "Menus-Plaisirs du Roi\n\nThe Menus-Plaisirs du Roi () was, in the organisation of the French royal household under the Ancien Régime, the department of the Maison du Roi responsible for the \"lesser pleasures of the King\", which meant in practice that it was in charge of all the preparations for ceremonies, events and festivities, down to the last detail of design and order.\n\nAt the king's \"lever\", the \"premier gentilhomme de la chambre\" (First Gentleman of the Bedchamber), controller of the Menus-Plaisirs, was invariably in attendance, to hear directly from the king what plans were to be set in motion; by long-standing convention, he was a duke; though he was not a professional, it was up to him to determine the appropriate designs. The duke in charge of the Menus et Plaisirs du Roy was an important court official, quite separate from the Surintendant des Bâtiments du Roi, who was an architect or aristocrat in charge of all building operations undertaken by the Crown. The dukes in charge might leave the design process entirely to the professional \"intendant\" in charge, whose right-hand man was the \"dessinateur du cabinet et de la chambre du Roy\"; so did two dukes with military careers, Louis-François-Armand du Plessis, duc de Richelieu (1696-1788), appointed \"premier gentilhomme\" in 1744 and Emmanuel-Félicité, duc de Durfort-Duras (1715–89), made \"premier gentilhomme\" (and \"pair de France\") in 1757. But Louis-Marie-Augustin, duc d'Aumont (1709–82), appointed \"premier gentilhomme de la chambre\" in 1723, a position he held until the king's death in 1774, was a noted connoisseur of objets d'art and the arts of life, though not, apparently, of paintings. The duc d'Aumont appointed the renowned gilt-bronze maker Pierre Gouthière \"doreur ordinaire\" of the Menus-Plaisirs in 1767 and appointed the architect Bellanger to the Menus-Plaisirs in the same year. For most of the reign of Louis XVI, the \"intendant\" of the Menus-Plaisirs du Roi was Papillon de la Ferté, whose journal (published in 1887) throws a great deal of light on the organization of court ceremony.\n\nMany designers were required at the Menus-Plaisirs. From the sixteenth century on, a main responsibility of court architects in Europe was the occasional design of lavish ephemeral settings for processional entries, for masques and ballets, for the structures that supported fireworks and illuminations on nights of grand fêtes for dynastic marriages and births, or to design the catafalque for a state funeral. Architects like Leonardo, Giulio Romano and Inigo Jones were engaged in projects that were of great moment in expressing the prestige of the court, but which have left little behind, except designs and some commemorative engravings, produced under the supervision of the Cabinet du Roi. The architect Charles-Nicolas Cochin worked for several years for the Menus-Plaisirs du Roi, 1735–51, making detailed renderings for the engravers of architectural designs by the Slodtz brothers. and François-Joseph Bélanger began his career in 1767 working at the Menus-Plaisirs, both designing ephemeral decorations for court entertainments. \n\nIn the later reign of Louis XIV, the architect in charge of the Bâtiments was Jules Hardouin-Mansart, but the wholly independent artistic force at the menus-plaisirs until his death in 1711 was Jean Bérain, whose brevet in 1674 covered his responsibilities \"for all sorts of designs, perspectives, figures and costumes that it would be required to make for plays, ballets, chases at the ring, carousels...\" The purview of the Menus-Plaisirs did not normally extend to furniture, but among its expenses in 1692 were \"the Furniture and the silversmiths' work for the apartments of the King\"\n\nWithin the Menus-Plaisirs, a hierarchical structure prevailed, with an \"Intendant\" supervising the whole and a \"Dessinateur de la Chambre et du Cabinet du Roi\" in charge of the orderly production of designs. The \"Cabinet du Roi\"—in the seventeenth-century sense of \"cabinet\" as collection of works of art and curiosities—was organized by Colbert, who gave formal structure to all the official arts under Louis XIV. The \"Cabinet du Roi\" provided the commemorative engravings, which are often our only record, and sold them. The functions of design and commemoration overlapped, needless to say. The position was extremely influential: both Jean Bérain and his son, and later Juste-Aurèle Meissonnier, the genius of the extreme rococo, followed by the Slodtz brothers, one after another, 1750-64. The appointment of the neo-classical architect-designer Michel-Ange Challe in 1764 marked a turning point: through his designs for the Menus-Plaisirs, neoclassicism was introduced at the French court.\n\nIn addition to these extraordinary expenses, which interest the historian of taste, the journal of the last \"Intendant\" of the Menus-Plaisirs, Denis-Pierre-Jean Papillon de la Ferté (1727-1794) describes as well the ordinary expenses, for the Menus-Plaisirs dispensed the salaries of the \"Premiers Gentilshommes de la Chambre\", the \"Grand Maître de la Garde-Robe\", the king's doctor, the \"médecin de la Chambre\", the personnel of the Menus-Plaisirs and the king's musicians. Ordinary expenses entailed the constant renewal of the King's wardrobe and that of the Dauphin, religious ceremonies of all kinds, the king's carriages, small royal gifts like snuffboxes, tents and pavilions for outdoor events.\n\nThe Menus-Plaisirs were not in charge of the essential furniture of the royal palaces, which were the province of the Garde-Meuble de la Couronne. An exception is instructive: the design of the jewel cabinet made as a wedding present for the wedding of the Dauphin Louis to Marie-Antoinette was considered part of the design of the festivities as a whole; thus in the Menus-Plaisirs, the design was entrusted by the duc d'Aumont to Belanger in 1769, well in advance of the wedding. It was delivered on 1 May 1770.\n\nThe music required for these entertainments was also a concern of the Menus-Plaisirs du Roi. Beginning in 1762 the music section was established on a large site extending north from the rue Bergère and west of the rue du Faubourg Poissonnière. The facilities included what had previously been the theatre of the Opéra-Comique at the Saint-Laurent Fair. The site was soon expanded until it reached the rue Richer on the north.\n\nIn 1784 Papillon de la Ferté organized the École Royale de Musique, which was housed in buildings on this site on the rue Bergère, and in 1793 the Institut National de Musique, responsible for training instrumentalists of the National Guard bands, was also located here. The two institutions were merged into the Conservatoire de Musique in August 1795. A new Conservatory Concert Hall was added in 1811. Under the French Second Empire a different theatre with the name Théâtre des Menus-Plaisirs was constructed at 14 Boulevard de Strasbourg in Paris.\n\nUnder Louis XV a structure was erected in the town of Versailles to house the multiple activities of the Menus-Plaisirs. It still stands, at 22, avenue de Paris, now rendered famous as the site of the Estates-General of 1789, at which the opening moves of the French Revolution were played out. A provisionally fitted-out space was arranged in the building to seat the Assembly of Notables in 1787, and again in 1788. Then, to accommodate the press of representatives of the three estates, in the Estate-General, a grander but still temporary Salle des États designed by Pierre-Adrien Pâris was set up in one of the two courtyards of the Hôtel des Menus-Plaisirs. The old Hôtel des Menus-Plaisirs is now the home of the Centre de Musique Baroque de Versailles.\n\nIn Moscow, near the Kremlin's walls, between the Komendantskaïa Tower and the Troïtskaïa Tower, stands the Palais des Menus Plaisirs (Потёшный Дворец or Потёшный Двор), built in 1652 for the father-in-law of Tsar Alexis, the boyar Ilya Miloslavsky, who lived in it for sixteen years. After his death, the structure was enlarged and converted into a site for spectacles and concerts, taking its new name, and served to house members of the imperial family: here the future Peter the Great received his elementary education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11203375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11203375", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Latvia)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Latvia)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia () is the Latvian government ministry in charge of the formation and implementation of national security and defence policy, and for the overall management and control of related subordinate agencies. The ministry is headed by the politically appointed Minister of Defence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32795063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32795063", "title": "Mosaica Education", "text": "Mosaica Education\n\nMosaica Education, Inc. is an education management organization that operates preschool, elementary, middle and high school programs in the United States, United Kingdom and India in addition to other countries through Mosaica Online. Mosaica Education was founded in 1997. It acquired Advantage Schools, Inc., in 2001. Mosaica Education's primary focus is developing charter school programs in the United States that use its proprietary Paragon curriculum. Mosaica Education is co-headquartered in New York City and Atlanta, Georgia. The organization employs more than 1,800 people, primarily at the school-site level, and operates 104 programs for 25,000 students worldwide as of November 2013. Michael J. Connelly is Mosaica's chief executive officer.\n\nThe company's educational assets were taken over by Pansophic Learning in 2015. No Mosaica-branded schools remain.\n\nMosaica was co-founded in 1997 by Dr. Dawn Eidelman and Gene Eidelman. The Eidelmans had previously founded Prodigy Child Development Centers and Prodigy Consulting, an organization that operated child development and care centers in the Atlanta, Georgia area and for corporations across the United States including General Motors, IBM and Xerox. Dr. Dawn Eidelman also formerly served as a professor at the University of Texas at Arlington. In September 1997, Mosaica opened its first charter school. Lepercq Capital Management purchased a stake of the company in 1998. Along with the investment, Michael Connelly, a former president of Lepercq, became Mosaica's chief executive officer. The company received further funding from Murphy and Partners in 1999.\n\nIn 2001, Mosaica acquired Advantage Schools, a Boston, Massachusetts-based education management organization. The Qatari government contracted Mosaica to convert schools in Qatar to an American-style educational curriculum in 2003. The contract was renewed in 2006. By 2005, Mosaica was the fastest growing urban business in the country, according to \"Inc. Magazine\". The company operated 51 charter schools at the time.\n\nIn 2004 and 2007, Mosaica was recognized as one of the Outstanding Charters Schools in America. Mosaica was one of two education organizations to appear on the 2004 \"Inc 5000\" list.\n\nIn 2006, Mosaica Education was selected by the government of Abu Dhabi as one of four private education firms to consult on 30 government schools in the Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC). The Public-Private Partnership (PPP) program was considered successful in 2010 when ADEC reported that \"there has been a considerable rise in student and teacher attendance and grades specifically in English, Math, and Arabic language skills.\"\n\nIn 2006, Mosaica was paid $773,000 for the first year of a five-year management contract for the management of Lafayette Academy Charter School in New Orleans, Louisiana. The organization was fired in 2007 by the school's governing board, which alleged that Mosaica failed to align its curriculum to Louisiana state standards, provide after-school programs for students that were below grade level, and organize transportation to and from the school. The dispute between Mosaica and Lafayette Academy went into arbitration. In September 2007, the arbitrator ruled Lafayette Academy would pay Mosaica $100,000 for early termination of the contract and Mosaica would return $350,000 in fees to the school.\n\nIn 2009, Mosaica fired one school administrator and two teachers at Howard Road Academy, a charter school managed by the organization. The administrator had leaked a copy of the DC-CAS standardized test to two teachers, who then distributed copies of the test to their students prior to the exam day.\n\nIn 2010, the MAPSA (Michigan Association of Public School Academies) recognized Bingham Arts with the Charter School of Excellence Award for the state of Michigan. The Columbus Preparatory Academy was recognized as a 'School of Excellence with Distinction' by the Ohio Department of Education in 2011.\n\nIn 2012, a charter school managed by Mosaica Education received the Illinois State Board of Education's \"Academic Improvement Award.\" A charter school managed by Mosaica Education received the 2012 Colorado \"Governors' Distinguished Improvement Award\" for exceeding academic expectations.\n\nIn April 2012, the \"Winston-Salem Journal\" reported that the STEAM Academy of Winston-Salem, North Carolina had faced declining revenue and poor academic performance for multiple years. Mosaica took over management of the charter school in late 2011. The STEAM Academy's board of directors hired Susan Willis to serve as the school's principal in December of that year. Willis had been fired in 2009 from Fleming High School in Roanoke, Virginia for allegedly manipulating student schedules to influence the school's standardized testing scores. Mosaica was aware of Willis' firing but felt that Willis was \"cleared of any wrongdoing\" after the company spoke to a former Roanoke school superintendent and consulted a dissenting opinion from the Virginia state investigation into Willis' conduct.\n\nAlso in 2012, Mosaica was contracted to manage a charter district in Muskegon Heights, Michigan by Donald Weatherspoon, the emergency manager of the failing district. Prior to contracting with Mosaica, Weatherspoon had fired the entire staff of the school district and reconstituted it as a charter district. Mosaica had \"three months to hire and train staff members, including those rehired from the old district, bring neglected facilities up to code, and persuade parents to keep their children enrolled.\" The school's first principal quit within the first month of that school year and, within three months, a quarter of the teachers hired by Mosaica in the summer had left the district. According to Education Week, \"the largest single proportion [of teachers who left the district]—28 percent—cited the charter district's lack of participation in Michigan's public school employee retirement plan as the reason [for leaving].\"\n\nIn 2013, a charter school managed by Mosaica Education is recognized by the Ohio Department of Education as a \"High Progress School of Honor.\" As of 2013, Atlanta Preparatory Academy, a charter school managed by Mosaica, ranked in the bottom 20% of schools in Georgia based on standardized testing scores. Atlanta Public Schools recommended that the Georgia Board of Education not renew the school's charter due to low standardized test scores. The public school district was also concerned that the charter school's board lacked sufficient independence because it owed $801,384 to Mosaica.\n\nIn 2014, Tatonka Capital sued Mosaica, claiming default on loans. Mosaica went into court-ordered receivership in September 2014. In 2015, Tatonka and Pansophic Learning acquired the company's assets out of bankruptcy.\n\nMosaica Education is the parent organization that manages US-based charter schools and provides education consulting services. Additionally, there are five divisions within the organization:\n\nMosaica Online\n\nMosaica Online (formerly known as Mercury Online Education) is a virtual education program available to students domestically and internationally. Students attend classes and interact with peers and teachers through an online learning management system. In addition to offering virtual schools, Mosaica Online also partners with schools looking to offer online courses on an à la carte basis.\n\nMosaica Turnaround Partners\nMosaica Turnaround Partners is a consultant for schools and school districts facing a wide range of educational challenges. Mosaica Turnaround Partners assist school administrators with rescuing their academic programs from failure. Mosaica Turnaround Partners use professional development, research and tracking to improve the academic achievement of schools focusing on predominantly at risk student populations.\n\nMosaica International Schools\nMosaica International Schools (formerly known as Mosaica American Schools) is Mosaica Education's division that operates private international schools located outside of the United States. Mosaica currently operates one school in Hyderabad, India, although a school in Guragon had been planned in 2011.\n\nMosaica Education UK\nMosaica Education UK provides school management, professional development and education consulting services to schools and governments within the United Kingdom. At present Mosaica Education UK operates four academies in England under the Aurora Academies Trust.\n\nParagon\nParagon is an accelerated learning program that replaces traditional social studies, history, geography and civics curriculum at the primary and secondary school levels. Paragon also integrates the Visual and Performing Arts. Paragon supports scholarship in all subject areas by emphasizing pedagogies such as inquiry-based learning. Paragon was developed by Dr. Dawn Eidelman and is one of the eight pillars in Mosaica's accredited school model.\n\nOne distinction of Mosaica Education is the use of its proprietary Paragon curriculum instead of traditional social studies in nearly all of its schools. Paragon was designed by Mosaica's co-founder Dr. Dawn Eidelman.\n\nIn a Michigan Radio article, some Mosaica students described the program as fun. The same article quotes a former teacher as saying that Paragon has a one-size-fits-all approach that incorporated a \"strict\" teaching schedule making it hard for students to gain an understanding of the material or develop teacher / student relationships.\n\nAn article published in May 2013 in \"The Observer\" commented that the Paragon curriculum appeared to be at odds with British Secretary of State for Education Michael Gove's views of how history should be taught in the [British] curriculum. Gove's comment pertained to secondary students. The article also referred to a 2003 study conducted by the American Federation of Teachers union, which suggested that self-evaluation measures taken by the school to demonstrate Paragon effectiveness had inflated student scores, a claim denied by the organization.\n\nIn February 2014, the Manav Rachna International School - Charmwood, which uses Paragon curriculum, received the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) National Education Excellence Award for the \"Best K-12 School in Teaching and Learning Practices.\"\n\nIn May 2014, the UK Office of Standards in Education (Ofsted) changed its rating of King Offa Primary Academy from \"Special Measures\" to \"Good\" and praised its use of Paragon curriculum.\n\nIn 2000, co-founder Dr. Dawn Eidelman received the Ten Outstanding Young Americans (TOYA) Award. In 2003, the United States Department of Education recognized Mosaica Education as an \"Education Innovator\". Mosaica was recognized on the Inner-City 100 list for 4 consecutive years (2004–2007), including the #1 spot in 2005.\n\nMosaica appeared on the 2005, 2007, 2009, and 2010 \"Inc. 5000\" list. In 2011, it was recognized by \"Inc. Magazine\" as one of the \"Top Education Companies\".\n\nIn 2007, Mosaica Education received the Inner City Impact Award (ICIC). Mosaica co-founders Gene and Dr. Dawn Eidelman were recognized in 2009 as Education Entrepreneurs of the Year.\n\nMosaica was recognized on AllWorld Network's Arabia FastGrowth 500 list in 2011 and 2012. Michael Connelly received the AllWorld Entrepreneur of the Year in 2011. In 2013, the USDLA awarded Dr. Dawn D. Eidelman for \"Outstanding Leadership by an Individual in the Field of Distance Learning\" Award. Mosaica received the Top Homeschooling Curriculum Award in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "23768495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23768495", "title": "Multiple mini-interview", "text": "Multiple mini-interview\n\nThe multiple mini-interview (MMI) is an interview format that uses many short independent assessments, typically in a timed circuit, to obtain an aggregate score of each candidate's soft skills. In 2001, the McMaster University Medical School began developing the MMI system, to address two widely recognized problems. First, it has been shown that traditional interview formats or simulations of educational situations do not accurately predict performance in medical school. Secondly, when a licensing or regulatory body reviews the performance of a physician subsequent to patient complaints, the most frequent issues of concern are those of the non-cognitive skills, such as interpersonal skills, professionalism and ethical/moral judgment. Since it was formally introduced at McMaster University Medical School in 2004, it has been adopted by medical, dental, pharmacy, and veterinary schools around the world.\n\nInterviews have been used widely for different purposes, including assessment and recruitment. Candidate assessment is normally deemed successful when the scores generated by the measuring tool predict for future outcomes of interest, such as job performance or job retention. Meta-analysis of the human resource literature has demonstrated low to moderate ability of interviews to predict for future job performance. How well a candidate scores on one interview is only somewhat correlated with how well that candidate scores on the next interview. Marked shifts in scores are buffered when collecting many scores on the same candidate, with a greater buffering effect provided by multiple interviews than by multiple interviewers acting as a panel for one interview. The score assigned by an interviewer in the first few minutes of an interview is rarely changed significantly over the course of the rest of the interview, an effect known as the halo effect.\n\nTherefore, even very short interviews within an MMI format provide similar ability to differentiate reproducibly between candidates. Ability to reproducibly differentiate between candidates, also known as overall test reliability, is markedly higher for the MMI than for other interview formats. This has translated into higher predictive validity, correlating for future performance much more highly than standard interviews.\n\nAiming to enhance predictive correlations with future performance in medical school, post-graduate medical training, and future performance in practice, McMaster University began research and development of the MMI in 2001. The initial pilot was conducted on 18 graduate students volunteering as \"medical school candidates\". High overall test reliability (0.81) led to a larger study conducted in 2002 on real medical school candidates, many of whom volunteered after their standard interview to stay for the MMI. Overall test reliability remained high, and subsequent follow-up through medical school and on to national licensure examination (Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination Parts I and II) revealed the MMI to be the best predictor for subsequent clinical performance, professionalism, and ability to communicate with patients and successfully obtain national licensure.\n\nSince its formal inception at the Michael G. DeGroote School of Medicine at McMaster University in 2004, the MMI subsequently spread as an admissions test across medical schools, and to other healing arts disciplines. By 2008, the MMI was being used as an admissions test by the majority of medical schools in Canada, Australia, Israel, and Brunei. Also in 2008, a pilot test was conducted with the tool at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, and went live in the fall of that year, as the first implementation of MMI at a medical college in the United States; additional medical schools in the country have since adopted the process.\n\nThese lead to the development of a McMaster spin-off company, APT Inc., to commercialize the MMI system. The MMI was branded as ProFitHR and made available to both the academic and corporate sector. By 2009, the list of other disciplines using the MMI included schools for dentistry, pharmacy, midwifery, physiotherapy and occupational therapy, veterinary medicine, ultrasound technology, nuclear medicine technology, X-ray technology, medical laboratory technology, chiropody, dental hygiene, and postgraduate training programs in dentistry and medicine.\n\n\nTest security breaches tend not to unduly influence results. While the creators of the test claim that sex of candidate and candidate status as under-represented minority tends not to unduly influence results , independent research has demonstrated that the MMI causes both gender and socioeconomic bias. Although some research have suggested that preparatory courses taken by the candidate tend not to unduly influence results, such research has not been duplicated and further research has to be done to make any scientifically sound argument for or against preparatory courses. Furthermore, such research must be designed to directly examine the efficacy of leading preparatory companies' courses rather than general evaluation. Although, it may be argued that all the validation so far has been done by McMaster and/or its affiliated company which constitute a conflict of interest and any result must be interpreted with caution. However, it is worth noting that MMI performance can be compromised by introversion.\n"}
{"id": "11096934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11096934", "title": "New Economic Mechanism", "text": "New Economic Mechanism\n\nThe New Economic Mechanism (NEM) was a major economic reform launched in the People's Republic of Hungary in 1968. Between 1972 and 1978, it was curtailed by the prevailing winds of Eastern Bloc politics. During the subsequent decade, until the revolutions of 1989 ended the era, the NEM's principles continued to affect the Hungarian economy, even in cases where the \"NEM\" name was not emphasized. Because of the NEM, Hungary in the 1980s had a higher ratio of market mechanisms to central planning than any other Eastern Bloc economy. The ratio was different to an extent that was politically challenging to bring about in the Soviet sphere because of the ideological mixture it required. The name Goulash Communism was jokingly (but tellingly) applied to this mixture. The Hungarian economy under the influence of NEM principles was widely viewed as outperforming other Soviet Bloc economies, making Hungary \"the happiest barrack\" in barracks communism. Many Soviet and Eastern European people enjoyed going to Hungary (for example, on work assignments or on vacations) because of the economic and cultural environment there.\n\nThe tensions and harmonies between market mechanisms and central planning, with neither having sole control, are a perennial challenge in all societies that temper capitalism with socialism or vice versa. In some ways Hungary's economic reform channels comparisons with the Chinese economic reform, in the sense that both were qualitative challenges to a Stalinist type of system—and thus that such reforms were not politically feasible in most of the Soviet Bloc.\n\nThe period from 1956–1968 was one of reform in Eastern Europe. The beginning of these transformations was marked by the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, which resulted in János Kádár’s placement as the communist leader of the People's Republic of Hungary and the creation of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party (HSWP). For the first ten years of his rule, Kádár’s objective was to create a united Hungary, announcing in December 1961 that \"those who are not against us are with us.\" Having reached social peace, Kádár turned his attention to economic improvement.\n\nOn May 7, 1966, the Central Committee of the HSWP announced Kádár’s plans for the reform of the economy, known as the New Economic Mechanism (NEM). The reform is considered as \"the most radical postwar change\" of any Comecon country. The plan, which became official January 1, 1968, was a major shift to decentralization in an attempt to overcome the inefficiencies of central planning. The NEM represented a move away from the soviet economic system of compulsory plan indicators in favor of a policy that states profits as the enterprise's main goal. The new economic policy was a \"comprehensive reform of the economic system\", creating market relationships among firms, using prices as allocative functions and firms responding to prices to maximize profits, and using profits to budget new investments.\n\nThe Central Committee’s document on May 7 details changes in the firm’s role under the new economic policy. The reform gave producers the freedom to decide what and how much they produce and offer for sale and to establish commercial or co-operative relationships. Buyers were also given the freedom to choose between domestic goods and imports. Additionally, firms were given greater autonomy in carrying out investments and hiring labor. As dictated by the Central Committee, success is to be measured by a firm’s profitability. The decentralized structure of the New Economic Mechanism marked an improvement in the decision making process, allowing for basic decisions to be made at the local level without information having to be transmitted upward for a more centralized decision. The Hungarian government made 50.5%(enterprises 49.5%) of the investment decisions for the 68 billion forint invested in 1968, while in 1974 enterprises accounted for 53.1% of the decisions for the 128 billion forint invested.\n\nThe New Economic Mechanism also aimed to create a more active role for prices. A system of free prices reflecting market conditions was implemented. The government wanted flexibility, but also to combat inflation. To do so, they introduced a new practice of price controls declaring an item’s price as fixed, limited or free.\n\nFixed prices were classified as material and basic intermediate goods. The price was fixed because of the good’s impact on the economy and the overall need to ensure stability. The price was determined by ministries.\n\nLimited prices referred to particular products or products in some product group for which there were no substitutes, such as bread. It was applied on the average price over a period or a window within which prices were free to fluctuate.\n\nFree prices were assigned to goods that formed small parts of individual expenditures or were regarded as luxuries.\n\nThe price reform allowed for prices better to reflect the cost of production and the valuation by the market, and to correspond more closely to \"some measure of socially necessary inputs\", helping reach market equilibrium.\n\nThe goal of the New Economic Mechanism consisted of improving Hungary’s economy to make Hungary a serious contributor to the international economy. In 1966 the Soviet Union accounted for 32% of Hungary’s exports and 29% of its imports. Of Hungary’s exports to Western Developed Countries, 42.7% was Food and Live Animals, 43.5% Manufactured Goods. Meanwhile, trade with Socialist Countries consisted largely of Manufactured Goods (81.3%). Conversely, Hungary’s imports from the West were primarily Manufactured Goods (70.6%). Because of the pre-existing quota system which placed an emphasis on quantity, not quality, Hungarian goods were inferior and did not meet Western technological standards.\n\nDecentralization provided enterprises with the opportunity to better align with the world market by giving them more freedom in deciding which products and technologies to invest in and manufacture. Additionally, firms were paid for exports in the Hungarian currency equivalent of the foreign currency they earned, as the government aimed to involve enterprises in foreign markets and in improving the quality of goods produced. The new plan established direct connections between the foreign and domestic markets on the basis of an appropriate exchange rate. The primary concern of the New Economic Mechanism was in improving foreign trade and establishing a relationship between success in exportation and a firm’s profitability.\n\n"}
{"id": "44249235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44249235", "title": "Outline of computer security", "text": "Outline of computer security\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to computer security:\n\nComputer security – security applied to computing devices such as computers and smartphones, as well as computer networks such as private and public networks, including the whole Internet. The field covers all the processes and mechanisms by which digital equipment, information and services are protected from unintended or unauthorized access, change or destruction, and is of growing importance in line with the increasing reliance on computer systems of most societies worldwide. Computer security includes measures taken to ensure the integrity of files stored on a computer or server as well as measures taken to prevent unauthorized access to stored data, by securing the physical perimeter of the computer equipment, authentication of users or computer accounts accessing the data, and providing a secure method of data transmission.\n\nComputer security can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\nThe variety of threats combined with the rapid development of new threats has made cyber insecurity and the removal of information assurance the 'status quo'. As long as man continues to use the computer, man will also takes interest in manipulating, modifying, creating and bypassing 'rules' and 'security standards.' \n\nThe most common and effective method of violating computer security protocols is Phishing; Phishing is the process of providing a cloned login page for a site the victim uses, for example, Google's Gmail - once the user enters his/her login information, the data is captured and access to the victims account is gained. \n\nMany corporations executive's, mid-ranking managers and even low level staff of many current U.S. corporations have no idea that a malicious user is quietly and passively intercepting their communications. Why? A strong motivation is the theft of Intellectual Property. Often victims of phishing either never become aware there privacy has been breached, or many months pass before they become aware that their privacy has been lost. \n\nMethods of Computer Network Attack and Computer Network Exploitation\n\nSocial engineering is a frequent method of attack, and can take the form of phishing, or spear phishing in the corporate or government world, as well as counterfeit websites.\n[HID Spoofing keylogger] \n\n\nAccess control – selective restriction of access to a place or other resource. The act of accessing may mean consuming, entering, or using. Permission to access a resource is called authorization.\n\nApplication security\n\nData security – protecting data, such as a database, from destructive forces and the unwanted actions of unauthorized users.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nindependent organization which evaluates and rates antivirus and security suite software for Microsoft Windows and Android operating systems, according to a variety of criteria. Every other month, the researchers publish the results of their testing, where they list which products they awarded their certification. The organisation is based in Magdeburg, in Germany.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInternet police – police and secret police departments and other law enforcement agencies in charge of policing the Internet. The major purposes of Internet police, depending on the state, are fighting cybercrime, as well as censorship, propaganda, and monitoring and manipulating the online public opinion.\n\n\n\n\nRubber-hose cryptanalysis\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19334466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19334466", "title": "Police state", "text": "Police state\n\nPolice state is a term denoting a government that exercises power arbitrarily through the power of the police force. Originally, the term designated a state regulated by a civil administration, but since the beginning of the 20th century it has \"taken on an emotional and derogatory meaning\" by describing an undesirable state of living characterized by the overbearing presence of the civil authorities. The inhabitants of a police state may experience restrictions on their mobility, or on their freedom to express or communicate political or other views, which are subject to police monitoring or enforcement. Political control may be exerted by means of a secret police force that operates outside the boundaries normally imposed by a constitutional state. Robert von Mohl, who first introduced the rule of law to German jurisprudence, contrasted the \"Rechtsstaat\" (\"legal\" or \"constitutional\" state) with the anti-aristocratic \"Polizeistaat\" (\"police state\").\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" traces the phrase \"police state\" back to 1851, when it was used in reference to the use of a national police force to maintain order in Austria. The German term \"Polizeistaat\" came into English usage in the 1930s with reference to totalitarian governments that had begun to emerge in Europe.\n\nBecause there are different political perspectives as to what an appropriate balance is between individual freedom and national security, there are no objective standards defining a police state. This concept can be viewed as a balance or scale. Along this spectrum, any law that has the effect of removing liberty is seen as moving towards a police state while any law that limits government oversight of the populace is seen as moving towards a free state.\n\nAn electronic police state is one in which the government aggressively uses electronic technologies to record, organize, search and distribute forensic evidence against its citizens.\n\nThe Oprichnina established by Ivan IV within the Tsardom of Russia in 1565 functioned as a police state, featuring persecutions and autocratic rule.\n\nThe Soviet Union and its satellite states, including East Germany and other members of the Soviet bloc, had extensive and repressive police and intelligence services (such as the KGB). Approximately 2.5% of the East German adult population served as informants for the Stasi, roughly one agent or informer for every 6.5 citizens.\n\nIn Iran, during the reign of the Shah Reza Shah Pahlavi, from 1925 to 1941, there was an increased police presence who arrested and tortured many people who were against his rule. Police presence and surveillance increased even more under the rule of Reza Shah's son, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, from 1941 to 1979, with the creation of the SAVAK secret police. They were seen positioned on every street corner and were fiercely loyal to the Shah's rule and arrested and tortured many people; this reign also saw a sharp increase in political prisoners. Public anger and mass uprisings against the Shah led to the Iranian Revolution in 1979 led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, which resulted in the overthrow of the Shah's reign and thus the abolishing of the Iranian monarchy and the creation of the Islamic Republic of Iran, ending the over-2,500-year history of the monarchy. Police presence once again increased and worsened drastically with the creation of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, in particular the morality police, the Basij militia, who forcefully uphold Islamic law on civilians.\n\nNazi Germany emerged from an originally democratic government, yet gradually exerted more and more repressive controls over its people in the lead-up to World War II. In addition to the SS and the Gestapo, the Nazi police state used the judiciary to assert control over the population from the 1930s until the end of the war in 1945.\n\nDuring the period of apartheid, South African governments maintained police-state attributes such as banning people and organizations, arresting political prisoners, maintaining segregated living communities and restricting movement and access.\n\nAugusto Pinochet's Chile operated as a police state, exhibiting \"repression of public liberties, the elimination of political exchange, limiting freedom of speech, abolishing the right to strike, freezing wages\".\n\nThe Republic of Cuba under president (and later nationalist dictator) Fulgencio Batista was an authoritarian police state during his rule. Police influence increased following his overthrow during the Cuban Revolution in 1959 with the rise to power of Fidel Castro and his communist regime.\n\nThe region of modern-day North Korea has long had elements of a police state, from the \"Juche\"-style Silla kingdom, to the imposition of a fascist police state by the Japanese, to the totalitarian police state imposed and maintained by the Kim family. Paris-based Reporters Without Borders has ranked North Korea last or second last in their test of press freedom since the Press Freedom Index's introduction, stating that the ruling Kim family control all of the media.\n\nIn response to government proposals to enact new security measures to curb protests, the government of the AK Party has been accused of turning Turkey into a police state.\n\nSince the 2013 Egyptian coup d'état, the military government of Egypt has taken dramatic steps to crack down on freedom of religion and expression, leading to accusations that it has effectively become a \"Revolutionary Police State\".\n\nFictional police states have featured in a number of media ranging from novels to films to video games. George Orwell's \"1984\" has been described as \"the definitive fictional treatment of a police state, which has also influenced contemporary usage of the term\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44894299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44894299", "title": "Presidential train", "text": "Presidential train\n\nA presidential train is an official train used by a country's president. They include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11195319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11195319", "title": "Racial politics", "text": "Racial politics\n\nRacial politics is the practice of political actors exploiting the issue of race to forward an agenda.\n\nMalaysian politician Chang Ko Youn put forward \"Malaysia has practised racial politics for 51 years and we know it is divisive as each party only talks on behalf of the racial group it represents... When all races are in a single party, no one person will try to be the champion of the party... It is easy to be a Malay hero, a Malaysian Chinese hero or a Malaysian Indian hero but it is difficult to be a Malaysian hero... The country is facing economic problems now and it is important that the Government and political parties come up with a Malaysian agenda on how to unite the people and face these challenges...\"\n\nOn August 13, 2008, a letter was sent to \"The Star\" with the title \"Why we can't get our experts to return\" saying:\nWriter A. Asohan wrote: \"...you started to grow up, and race increasingly became a factor. You became aware of race politics here. Insidious people would hint that being friends with the \"Other\" made you a traitor to your own race. The racist rot seems to have intensified over the subsequent generations. The bigotry we learned as adults are now being picked up by our primary schoolkids. Our leaders may, in a fit of progressiveness (by their standards), talk about racial tolerance, but acceptance and appreciation for other races and cultures seem beyond their ken. Racial intolerance in the country is getting worse, we tell ourselves, looking back to a more idyllic past. Bah, what crock! We Malaysians have always been racists. Heck, the entire human race has always found some illusive basis for discrimination. Race, religion, colour, creed, whether you were born north or south of that artificial line called a border – we spend an inordinate amount of our time and resources on delineating our differences rather than celebrating our similarities. If you married someone from a different race in the old days, you faced severe social censure and were treated as an outcast. Parents wrung their hands and tore at their hair, wailing \"What did we do wrong? Aiyoh, how can you do this to us?\"\n\nMarina Mahathir wrote: \"...The same thing happened in our country. Unfortunately, race politics has not really died down yet, and some people reacted as if ethnic cleansing had just taken place...\"\n\nPolitician Datuk Ngeh Koo Ham when he was asked \"What do you dislike most about Malaysians?\", he replied: Racial politics.\n\nChris Anthony wrote: \"...After 50 years of living and working together side-by-side, the people have voted to do away with racial politics but unfortunately the politicians are far from showing signs of heeding their calls for multiracialism...\" \n\nPhilip Bowring of International Herald Tribune wrote that the political organization of Malaysia has long been largely on racial lines, Islam has at times become a device for use in racial politics, a yardstick for measuring the commitment of competing parties to Malay racial advancement.\n\nAccording to many historians, the root cause of this strife between the ethnic communities and Malay nationalist sentiments like ketuanan Melayu was the lack of assimilation or amalgamation between the Malays and non-Malays. Because most of the migrants came as \"guest workers\" of the British, they felt little need to integrate into Malay society. (The Straits Chinese, most of whom were rich merchants instead of manual labourers, were an exception and managed to assimilate reasonably well, with many of them habitually speaking Malay at home, dressing in the Malay style, and preferring Malay cuisine.) Few bothered to even learn the Malay language; the census taken at independence showed that only 3% of Chinese aged ten and over, and 5% of Indians in the same age group, were literate in Malay. The comparable figure for the Malays stood at 46%.[41] The British educational policies, which segregated the different ethnicities—providing minimal public education for the Malays, and leaving the non-Malays to their own devices – did little to help matters. The Malays, who were predominantly rural-dwellers, were not encouraged to socialise with the non-Malays, most of whom resided in towns. The economic impoverishment of the Malays, which set them apart from the better-off Chinese, also helped fan racial sentiments.\n\nThis failure to assimilate or amalgamate has in turn been blamed on the British. George Maxwell, a high ranking colonial civil servant, credited the Malay aristocracy for its acceptance of non-Malay participation in public life, and attributed political discrimination to British colonial policy:\n\n\"With thirty-five years service in Malaya, and with intimate friendship with Rulers over two generations, I can say that I never heard one of them say anything that would tend to support [the exclusion of non-Malays from administrative appointments]. From the very earliest days of British protection, the Rulers have welcomed the leaders of the Chinese communities as members of their State Councils. Other [non-Malays] are now members of the State Councils. The policy of keeping [non-Malays] out of the administration owes its inception to British officials, and not to the Rulers.\"\n\nOn the basis of these policies, historians have argued that \"Given the hostility toward Chinese expressed by many colonial officials and the lack of physical and social integration, it is not surprising that most Malays formed the opinion that Chinese were only transients in Malaya with no real attachments to the country.\"\n\nAnother contributing factor to ketuanan Melayu, according to historians, was the Japanese occupation during World War II. One states that the war \"awakened a keen political awareness among Malayan people by intensifying communalism and racial hatred.\" This was widely attributed to the Japanese policies which \"politicised the Malay peasantry\" and intentionally fanned the flames of Malay nationalism. Racial tension was also increased by the Japanese practice of using Malay paramilitary units to fight Chinese resistance groups. Two Malay historians wrote that \"The Japanese hostile acts against the Chinese and their apparently more favourable treatments of the Malays helped to make the Chinese community feel its separate identity more acutely ... it was also the beginning of racial tension between the Malays and Chinese.\"[44] A foreign commentator agreed, stating that \"During the occupation period ... Malay national sentiment had become a reality; it was strongly anti-Chinese, and its rallying cry [was] 'Malaya for the Malays'...\"\n\nIn the year 2006, Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim on his release from 6 years of prison said in a number of interviews that the NEP should be abolished and that all races should be given equal opportunities and also that the NEP was bad because only the cronies of UMNO party became rich from it, however Khairy Jamaluddin from UMNO party hit out at him (Anwar Ibrahim) for saying that. Khairy said: \"What cheek he has to speak\" and also said that Anwar Ibrahim was the greatest UMNO party member of all and a very rich one too.\n\nOne of the Racial politics in United States is to describe racially charged political actions by Abigail Thernstrom, the vice-chairman of the U.S. commission on civil rights. The practice has been a major part of American government since its creation, and often divides the Republican and Democratic parties.\n\nThe United States Government has since the time of its creation been divided, and in many ways developed based upon issues of race. In 1861 the Civil War between the Northern and Southern states of the nation was fought partially over the abolition of slavery. Furthermore, the tension between the Northern Republicans and Southern Democrats continued for many years after as the South created Jim Crow laws and continued the segregation of individuals of color. The Northern Republicans realized that the South would not simply erase the strong racial divide that existed despite the abolition of slavery, and so in hopes of having a functioning Government allowed for such restrictions to exist.\n\nIn 1896, the Supreme Court of the United States determined that the, \"separate but equal\", doctrine was constitutional in the case Plessy v. Ferguson. Segregation was legal, so long as the segregated schools and facilities provided to whites and blacks were equal. Plaintiff Homer Plessy, whose ancestry was 1/8 African American, was persuaded by civil rights activists in New Orleans to test a new law that required separate accommodations for blacks and whites on railroads.\n\nIn 1954, the ruling of Plessy v. Ferguson was overturned in the Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education. The Supreme Court determined that the establishment of separate schools for whites and blacks was inherently unequal and unconstitutional. This was a major success for civil rights advocates, including the NAACP.\n\nPerhaps the most glaring aspect of racial politics today is the re-drawing and shaping of district lines to seclude minorities in certain areas. In doing this, Republicans and Democrats alike ensure certain trends in voting patterns and constituent concerns, as they place a high concentration of minorities within a voting district. This is a crucial aspect of modern-day politics and is often a major factor in elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10346225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10346225", "title": "Reichsbund jüdischer Frontsoldaten", "text": "Reichsbund jüdischer Frontsoldaten\n\nThe Reichsbund jüdischer Frontsoldaten (, RJF) was founded in Germany, February 1919, by Leo Löwenstein. Its purpose was opposition to the renewed spread of antisemitic thought which began at that time; one of the standard antisemitic arguments was that Jews were supposedly disloyal to the countries they lived in. German antisemites in particularly claimed that the Jews had stabbed Germany in the back (\"Dolchstosslegende\") in 1918.\n\nAgainst this, the Reichsbund always emphasized 85,000 Jewish soldiers had fought for the German Empire in World War I, and 12,000 had died, which put their loyalty to Germany beyond any reasonable doubt. They had received 30,000 medals and awards during the war. At its high point the Reichsbund had about 55,000 members.\n\nThe Reichsbund always was in opposition to Zionism and regarded the German Reich as the mother country of all German Jews.\n\nAll activities of the Reichsbund were outlawed by the Nazi government in 1936, and in 1938 it was completely dissolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "11497830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11497830", "title": "Table of years in LGBT rights", "text": "Table of years in LGBT rights\n\n"}
{"id": "854088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=854088", "title": "Theoconservatism", "text": "Theoconservatism\n\nThe words theoconservatism and theocon, portmanteaus of \"theocracy\" and \"conservatism\"/\"conservative\", generally occur as political labels referring to members of the Christian right, particularly those whose ideology represents a synthesis of elements of American conservatism, conservative Christianity, and social conservatism, expressed through political means. The term \"theocon\" first appeared in 1996 in an article in \"The New Republic\" entitled \"Neocon v. Theocon\" by Jacob Heilbrunn, where he wrote:\n[T]he neoconservatives believe that America is special because it was founded on an idea—a commitment to the rights of man embodied in the Declaration of Independence—not in ethnic or religious affiliations. The \"theocons\", too, argue that America is rooted in an idea, but they believe that idea is Christianity.\n\nMainstream media have used the terms to identify religious conservatives. Andrew Sullivan, blogger at \"The Atlantic\", has commonly used the concept, as have political cartoonists Cox & Forkum in reference to former Florida Secretary of State Katherine Harris.\n\n\n\nExample of Sullivan's use of \"theocon:\" http://dish.andrewsullivan.com/2013/02/18/benedicts-precedent/\n"}
{"id": "1903368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903368", "title": "Tim Flannery", "text": "Tim Flannery\n\nTimothy Fridtjof \"Tim\" Flannery (born 28 January 1956) is an Australian mammalogist, palaeontologist, environmentalist, Australia's leading conservationist, explorer, and global warming activist. Having discovered more than 30 mammal species (including new species of tree kangaroos), he served as the Chief Commissioner of the Climate Commission, a Federal Government body providing information on climate change to the Australian public. On 23 September 2013, Flannery announced that he would join other sacked commissioners to form the independent Climate Council, that would be funded by the community. \n\nTim Flannery is a professorial fellow at the Melbourne Sustainable Society Institute, University of Melbourne.\n\nFlannery was named Australian of the Year in 2007 and previously, until mid-2013, was a professor at Macquarie University and held the Panasonic Chair in Environmental Sustainability. He is also chairman of the Copenhagen Climate Council, an international climate change awareness group. His sometimes controversial views on shutting down conventional coal-fired power stations for electricity generation in the medium term are frequently cited in the media.\n\nFlannery was raised in a Catholic family in the Melbourne suburb of Sandringham, close to Port Phillip Bay, where he learned to fish and scuba dive and became aware of marine pollution and its effects on living organisms. He completed a Bachelor of Arts degree in English at La Trobe University in 1977, and then took a change of direction to complete a Master of Science degree in Earth Science at Monash University in 1981. He then left Melbourne for Sydney, enjoying its subtropical climate and species diversity. In 1984, Flannery earned a doctorate at the University of New South Wales in Palaeontology for his work on the evolution of macropods (kangaroos).\n\nFlannery has held various academic positions throughout his career. He spent many years in Adelaide, including a spell as professor at the University of Adelaide, and 7 years as director of the South Australian Museum. He was also principal research scientist at the Australian Museum, and an adviser on environmental issues to the Australian Federal Parliament. In 1999 he held the year-long visiting chair of Australian studies at Harvard University. In 2002, Flannery was appointed as chair of South Australia's [Environmental Sustainability Board (South Australia)].\n\nIn 2007, Flannery became professor in the Climate Risk Concentration of Research Excellence at Macquarie University. He left Macquarie University in mid-2013. Flannery is also a member of the Wentworth Group of Concerned Scientists, and a Governor of WWF-Australia. He has contributed to over 143 scientific papers.\n\nFlannery is an advisor on climate change to outgoing South Australian Premier Mike Rann, and is a member of the Queensland Climate Change Council established by the Queensland Minister for Sustainability, Climate Change and Innovation Andrew McNamara. In February 2011 it was announced that Flannery had been appointed to head the \"Climate Change Commission\" established by Prime Minister Julia Gillard to explain climate change and the need for a carbon price to the public.\n\nHe lives in a house with environmental features at Coba Point on the Hawkesbury River, 40 km (25 mi) north of Sydney, accessible only by boat. Although situated 6 metres above high tide, unidentified critics suggested the \"large, low-lying waterfront home\" would be underwater if his predictions of sea level rise are borne out.\n\nOn 10 February 2011, Flannery was appointed as the Chief Commissioner of the Climate Commission by the Australian Government. The Commission was a panel of leading scientists and business experts whose mandate was to provide an \"independent and reliable\" source of information for all Australians.\n\nOn 19 September 2013, Flannery was sacked from his position as head of the Climate Commission in a phone call from new Federal Environment Minister Greg Hunt. It was also announced that the Commission would be dismantled and its remit handled by the Department of Environment.<ref name=\"sacked/dismantled\"></ref>\n\nBy 6 October 2013, Flannery and the other commissioners had launched a new body called the Climate Council. Flannery told ABC News that the organisation stated that it had the same goals as the former Climate Commission, to provide independent information on the science of climate change. Amanda McKenzie was appointed as CEO. Between 24 September and 6 October the new Climate Council had raised $1 million in funding from a public appeal, sufficient to keep the organisation operating for 12 months.\n\nFlannery's early research concerned the evolution of mammals in Australasia. As part of his doctoral studies, he described 29 new kangaroo species including 11 new genera and three new subfamilies. In the 1990s, Flannery published \"The Mammals Of New Guinea\" (Cornell Press) and \"Prehistoric Mammals Of Australia and New Guinea\" (Johns Hopkins Press), the most comprehensive reference works on the subjects. Through the 1990s, Flannery surveyed the mammals of Melanesia – discovering 21 new species – and took a leading role in conservation efforts in the region.\n\nThe specific name of the Greater Monkey-faced Bat (\"Pteralopex flanneryi\"), only described in 2005, honours Flannery.\n\nFlannery's work prompted Sir David Attenborough to describe him as being \"in the league of the all-time great explorers like Dr David Livingstone\".\n\nIn 1980, Flannery discovered dinosaur fossils on the southern coast of Victoria and in 1985 had a role in the ground-breaking discovery of Cretaceous mammal fossils in Australia. This latter find extended the Australian mammal fossil record back 80 million years. During the 1980s, Flannery described most of the known Pleistocene megafaunal species in New Guinea as well as the fossil record of the phalangerids, a family of possums.\n\nFlannery was awarded humanist of the year in 2005 for his outstanding work in zoology.\n\nIn 1994, Flannery published \"The Future Eaters: an Ecological History of the Australasian Lands and People\", and provides a sweeping glimpse of land, flora, fauna and people of the long past up to the present.\n\nThe synopsis of the work regards three waves of human migration in these regions. These waves of people Flannery describes as \"future eaters\". The first wave was the migration to Australia and New Guinea from south-east Asia approximately 40 000 – 60 000 years ago. The second was Polynesian migration to New Zealand and surrounding islands 800 – 3500 years ago. The third and final wave Flannery describes is European colonisation at the end of the eighteenth century.\n\nFlannery describes the evolution of the first wave of future-eaters:\n\nWhile the book continues to be controversial in some of its hypotheses, it is a call to arms to preserve the Australasian natural heritage – and by extension global natural heritage.\n\nPerhaps his most controversial hypothesis regards early Australian Aboriginal history; Flannery paints an intriguing picture. Based on new sediment core studies, the continent up until 100,000 years ago had much greater expanses of rainforest than after Aboriginal arrival. He poses the \"possibility\" did Aborigines through firestick farming alter the ecology of Australian flora and fauna? Flannery links other circumstantial evidence to the puzzle predisposing his hypothesis, such as the continent’s long suffering poor soils, historical extinction events of other continents and tens of thousands of years of fire adaptation.\n\nFlannery also argues the hypothesis that at current population growth rate levels, Australasia is living beyond its population carrying capacity, to the extent that its biological stability has been damaged. European colonisation of Australia and New Caledonia brought its own artefacts and ways suitable in the ‘old world’, and yet struggle to adapt its \"culture to biological reality\". This reality is evident in Australia, where unpredictable climate combined with a lack of natural life giving resources have created a flora and fauna that have adapted over millennia to be extraordinarily efficient in the consumption of energy.\n\n\"The Future Eaters\" enjoyed strong sales and critical acclaim. Redmond O'Hanlon, a \"Times Literary Supplement\" correspondent said that \"Flannery tells his beautiful story in plain language, science popularising at its antipodean best\". Fellow activist David Suzuki praised Flannery's \"powerful insight into our current destructive path\". Some experts disagreed with Flannery's thesis, however, concerned that his broad-based approach, ranging across multiple disciplines, ignored counter-evidence and was overly simplistic.\n\n\"The Future Eaters\" was made into a documentary series for ABC Television and was republished in late 2013\n\nIn May 2004 Flannery said, \"I think there is a fair chance Perth will be the 21st century's first ghost metropolis\". He reiterated that prediction in 2007. In April 2005, he said, \"water is going to be in short supply across the eastern states\". In June 2005 Flannery said, \"the ongoing drought could leave Sydney’s dams dry in just two years\".\n\nIn September 2005 Flannery said, \"There are hot rocks in South Australia that potentially have enough embedded energy in them to run Australia's economy for the best part of a century\". Also for the Cooper Basin, he proposed the establishment of a fully sustainable city where, \"hundreds of thousands of people would live\", utilising these geothermal energy reserves. He named the city, \"Geothermia\". Subsequently, in 2007, an exploration company was established. The company expected to raise at least $11.5m on the Australian Stock Exchange. Flannery took up shares in the company. In 2010, the Federal Government provided the company with another $90m for the development work. In August 2016, the geothermal energy project closed as it was not financially viable.\n\nIn October 2006 Flannery said, there will be, \"no Arctic icecap in the next five to 15 years [ . . and . . ] the ocean will rise by six metres\". He also quoted, \"arguably the world authority on climate change\" who said, \"we have just a decade to avert a 25-metre rise of the sea\". In February 2007, as he explained how increased soil evaporation impacts on runoff, he said \"even the [existing amount of] rain that falls isn’t actually going to fill our dams and our river systems\" and in June 2007, he said that, \"Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane, water supplies are so low they need desalinated water urgently, possibly in as little as 18 months\".\n\nIn \"The Future Eaters\", Flannery was critical of the European settlers introducing non-native wild animals into Australia's ecosystem. At the same time, he suggested that if one wanted to reproduce, in some parts of Australia, the ecosystems that existed there ca. 60,000 years ago (before the arrival of the humans on the continent), it may be necessary to introduce into Australia, in a thoughtful and careful way, some non-native species that would be the closest substitutes to the continent's lost megafauna. In particular, the Komodo dragon can be brought into Australia as a replacement for its extinct relative, \"Megalania\", \"the largest goanna of all time\". The Tasmanian devil could also be allowed to re-settle the mainland Australia from its Tasmanian refuge area.\n\nIn \"The Eternal Frontier\", Flannery made a proposal for what later became nicknamed \"Pleistocene rewilding\": restoring the ecosystems that existed in North America before the arrival of the Clovis people and the concomitant disappearance of the North American Pleistocene megafauna ca. 13,000. He wonders if, in addition to the wolves that have been already re-introduced to Yellowstone National Park, \"ambush predators\", such as jaguars and lions should be reintroduced there as well, in order to bring the number of elks under control. Furthermore, the closest extant relatives of the species that became extinct around the Clovis period could be introduced to North America's nature reserves as well. In particular, the Indian and African elephants could substitute, respectively, for the mammoth and the mastodon; the Chacoan Peccary, for its extinct cousin the flat-headed Peccary (\"Platygonus compressus\"). Llamas and panthers, which still survive outside of the USA, should too be brought back to that country.\n\nIn \"The Weather Makers: The History & Future Impact of Climate Change\", Flannery outlined the science behind anthropogenic climate change. \"With great scientific advances being made every month, this book is necessarily incomplete,\" Flannery writes, but \"That should not, however, be used as an excuse for inaction. We know enough to act wisely.\"\n\nConcepts outlined in the book include:\n\n\nThe book won international acclaim. Bill Bryson concluded that \"It would be hard to imagine a better or more important book.\" \"The Weather Makers\" was honoured in 2006 as 'Book of the Year' at the New South Wales Premier's Literary Awards.\n\nFlannery's work in raising the profile of environmental issues was key to his being named Australian of the Year in 2007. Awarding the prize, former Prime Minister John Howard said that the scientist \"has encouraged Australians into new ways of thinking about our environmental history and future ecological challenges.\"\n\nThat said, Howard – along with many others – remains unconvinced as to Flannery's proposed solutions. Flannery joined calls for the cessation/reduction of conventional coal-fired power generation in Australia in the medium term, the source of most of the nation's electricity. Flannery claims that conventional coal burning will lose its social license to operate, as has asbestos.\n\nIn response to the introduction of proposed clean coal technology, Flannery has stated: \"Globally there has got to be some areas where clean coal will work out, so I think there will always be a coal export industry [for Australia] ... Locally in Australia because of particular geological issues and because of the competition from cleaner and cheaper energy alternatives, I'm not 100 per cent sure clean coal is going to work out for our domestic market.\"\n\nIn 2006 Flannery was in support of nuclear power as a possible solution for reducing Australia's carbon emissions, however in 2007 changed his position against it. In May 2007 he told a business gathering in Sydney that while nuclear energy does have a role elsewhere in the world, Australia's abundance of renewable resources rule out the need for nuclear power in the near term. He does however feel that Australia should and will have to supply its uranium to those other countries that do not have access to renewables like Australia does.\n\nIn May 2008 Flannery created controversy by suggesting that sulphur could be dispersed into the atmosphere to help block the sun leading to global dimming, in order to counteract the effects of global warming.\n\nIn August 2017 Flannery hosted an episode of ABC Catalyst investigating how carefully-managed seaweed growth could contribute to combating climate change via the sequestration of atmospheric carbon to the ocean floor. In January 2018 Flannery appeared on the ABC's Sciencey program exploring whether humans are becoming a new 'Mass Extinction Event', in addition to outlining the '5 Things You Need to Know About Climate Change'.\n\nWhen, in the concluding chapters of \"The Future Eaters\" (1994), Flannery discusses how to \"utilise our few renewable resources in the least destructive way\", he remarks that\n\nIn late 2007, Flannery suggested that the Japanese whaling involving the relatively common Minke Whale may be sustainable:\n\nThis raised concerns among some environmental groups such as Greenpeace, fearing it could add fuel to the Japanese wish of continuing its annual cull. In contrast to his stance on the Minke Whale quota, Flannery has expressed relief over the dumping of the quota of the rarer Humpback Whale, and further was worried how whales were slaughtered, wishing them to be \"killed as humanely as possible\". Flannery suggested that krill and other small crustaceans, the primary food source for many large whales and an essential part of the marine food chain, were of greater concern than the Japanese whaling.\n\nFlannery has achieved prominence through his environmental activism. His advocacy on two issues in particular, population levels and carbon emissions, culminated in being named Australian of the Year (2007) at a time when environmental issues were becoming prominent in Australian public debate.\n\nHe is a member of the World Future Council.\n\nIn 2009, Flannery joined the project \"Soldiers of Peace\", a move against all wars and for a global peace.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53450036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53450036", "title": "Totaliser", "text": "Totaliser\n\nTotaliser is a proposed mechanism in the voting machines in India to hide the booth-wise voting patterns. A totaliser allows the votes cast in about 14 polling booths to be counted together. At present, the votes are tallied booth by booth.\n\nBharat Electronics Limited, Bengaluru, and Electronics Corporation of India Limited, Hyderabad, developed the totaliser. Totaliser is an interface, which is connected to main control units of a cluster of 14 EVMs (hence, in 14 polling stations), and the consolidated result of votes cast for each candidate in that group of EVMs can be obtained by pressing the result button in the totaliser, but without disclosing the votes polled by a candidate polling-station-wise.\n\nA Public Interest Litigation has been filed in Supreme Court in 2014 seeking a direction to the poll panel to mix up the votes cast in the various polling stations in a constituency, to prevent the candidates intimidating voters in areas that had rebuffed them. Election Commission of India initially suggested the measure to UPA Government in 2008.\n\nDuring Indian general election, 2014, former Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had allegedly threatened the voters that his party, Nationalist Congress Party, would be able to detect the voting patterns from the electronic voting machine readings and cut off their water supply if they snubbed it in Baramati (Lok Sabha constituency). Law Commission said Totaliser would also help in situations such as witnessed in Hoshangabad (Lok Sabha constituency) in 2014, where lone voter casted vote in Mokalvada polling station in Sohagpur area. Before the introduction of the electronic voting machines in India, ballot papers were mixed wherever necessary to prevent disclosure of the voting patterns.\n\nIn February 2017, NDA Government opposed totaliser in its affidavit in Supreme Court, while Law Commission of India and the Election Commission of India had favoured the introduction of a totaliser.\n\nCongress, NCP and BSP “categorically” supported its proposal to use ‘totaliser’ machine while BJP, Trinamool Congress and PMK opposed totaliser.\n\n"}
{"id": "27556785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27556785", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1269", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1269\n\nUnited Nations Security Council resolution 1269, adopted unanimously on 19 October 1999, after expressing concern at the increasing number of acts of international terrorism, the Council condemned terrorist attacks and called upon states to fully implement anti-terrorist conventions. It was the first time the Security Council had addressed terrorism in a general manner, though it did not define what constituted terrorism.\n\nThe Security Council was mindful of resolutions passed by the General Assembly including Resolution 49/60 (1994) concerning measures to eliminate international terrorism. There was a necessity to intensify the fight against terrorism at the national level and strengthen international co-operation with respect for international humanitarian and human rights law. To this end it supported efforts to promote worldwide participation in and implementation of existing anti-terrorist conventions and the development of new anti-terrorist instruments.\n\nActing under Chapter VI of the United Nations Charter, the resolution unequivocally condemned all acts of worldwide terrorism as criminal and unjustifiable regardless of the circumstances in which the acts were committed. All countries were called upon to implement international anti-terrorist conventions to which they were party to; states that had not adopted such measures were urged to do so immediately. The Council stressed that the United Nations played a vital role in strengthening international co-operation in the fight against terrorism.\n\nAll countries were urged to take the following steps:\n\nThe Secretary-General Kofi Annan was asked to pay close attention to the need to prevent threats to international security as a result of terrorist acts. Finally, the Council expressed its readiness to take further measures in order to counter terrorist threats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44311111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44311111", "title": "United Pasokmomogun Kadazan Organisation", "text": "United Pasokmomogun Kadazan Organisation\n\nThe United Pasokmomogun Kadazan Organisation (UPKO) was a political party in Sabah at the time it became a state of Malaysia in the 1960s.\n\nThe party was founded by Donald Stephens in 1961 as the United National Kadazan Organisation (UNKO). Its core constituency was indigenous Sabahans. At the time of its founding it had approximately 20,000 members.\n\nUpon the formation of Malaysia in 1963, the party entered into a coalition with the United Sabah National Organisation (USNO), a Muslim party, and the Sabah Chinese Association (SCA) to form a consociationalist government of the new state of Sabah. Stephens became the state's first chief minister. In the same year, UNKO renamed itself the United Pasokmomogun Kadazan Organisation (UPKO). \n\nStephens was forced out of the chief ministership in 1964 and became a federal minister. The party dissolved in 1967 and was absorbed by USNO.\n\n"}
{"id": "1448498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448498", "title": "United States Chamber of Commerce", "text": "United States Chamber of Commerce\n\nThe United States Chamber of Commerce (USCC) is a business-oriented American lobbying group. It is not an agency of the United States government.\n\nPolitically, the Chamber usually supports Republican political candidates, though it has occasionally supported conservative Democrats. The Chamber is the largest lobbying group in the U.S., spending more money than any other lobbying organization on a yearly basis.\n\nThe U.S. Chamber of Commerce's own history of itself describes it as originating from an April 22, 1912, meeting of delegates. The Chamber was created by President Taft as a counterbalance to the labor movement of the time. John H. Fahey was the first chairman, and Henry A. Wheeler was the first president and Elliot Hersey Goodwin was the first secretary. It opened its first office in the Evans Building. In 1913, President Taft spoke at its first banquet at the Willard Hotel, where he called for the organization to lobby for comprehensive currency legislation and to support the Commission on Economy and Efficiency. During its first year in existence, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's membership consisted of 297 commercial organizations and 165,000 firms and individuals.\n\nThe Washington, D.C., headquarters of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce occupies land that was formerly the home of Daniel Webster.\n\nAlthough all chambers can work with all levels of government, they tend to concentrate their efforts on specific levels: Local chambers of commerce tend to focus on local issues, state chambers on state issues, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce focuses on national issues at the federal government level. They also work closely with a number of youth organizations in the country about the value and role of business in our society today.\n\nIn 1993, the Chamber lost several members over its support for Clinton's healthcare reform efforts. The Chamber had chosen to support healthcare reform at that time due to the spiraling healthcare costs experienced by its members. However, House Republicans retaliated by urging boycotts of the organization. The Chamber operated its own cable television station, Biz-Net until 1997 in order to promote its policies. The Chamber shifted somewhat more to the right when Tom Donohue became head of the organization in 1997. By the time health care reform became a major issue again in 2010–2012, the organization opposed such efforts.\n\nIn late 2011 it was revealed that the Chamber's computer system was breached from November 2009 to May 2010 by Chinese hackers. The purpose of the breach appeared to be gain information related to the Chamber's lobbying regarding Asian trade policy.\n\nSince a 1971 internal memo by Lewis Powell advocating a more active role in cases before United States Supreme Court, the Chamber has found increasing success in litigation. Under the Burger and Rehnquist Courts the Chamber was on the prevailing side 43% and 56% of the time, respectively, but under the Roberts Court, the Chamber's success rate rose to 68% as of June 21, 2012.\n\n\n\nThe Chamber has emerged as the largest lobbying organization in America. The Chamber's lobbying expenditures in 2015 were more than two-and-a-half times higher than the next highest spender: American Medical Association, at $23.9 million.\n\nAs of October 2010, the Chamber had a worldwide network of 115 American Chamber of Commerce affiliates located in 108 countries. The US Chamber says that a relative handful of the Chamber's 300,000 members are \"non-U.S.-based (foreign) companies.\" It claims that, \"No foreign money is used to fund political activities.\" A US Chamber executive has said that the organization has had \"foreign multinationals\" (foreign companies) as members for \"over a century, many for decades.\" The US Chamber states that it receives approximately $100,000 annually in membership dues from its foreign affiliates, out of an annual budget of $200 million.\n\nIn the 2008 election cycle, aggressive ads paid for by the USCC attacked a number of Democratic congressional candidates (such as Minnesota's DFL Senate candidate Al Franken) and supported a number of Republican candidates including John Sununu, Gordon Smith, Roger Wicker, Saxby Chambliss and Elizabeth Dole.\n\nDuring the 2010 campaign cycle, the Chamber spent $32 million, 93 percent of which was to help Republican candidates. The Chamber's spending out of its general funds was criticized as illegal under campaign finance laws. In a front-page article titled \"Large Donations Aid U.S. Chamber in Election Drive\", \"The New York Times\" reported that the Chamber used contributions in campaigns without separating foreign and domestic contributions, which if true would appear to contravene prohibitions on lobbying by foreign nations and groups. In question was the Chamber's international branches, \"AmChams\", whose funds are unaccounted for and perhaps mix into the general collection. All branches, corporations, and members of the Chamber pay dues; the question is how they divide the money for expenses in national campaigns.\n\nThe truth of these allegations is unknown, as neither the Chamber nor its detractors can provide any concrete evidence to support or refute the allegations. In reference to the matter, Tom Donohue wrote his council and members on October 12, 2010. He stated, \"Let me be clear. The Chamber does not use any foreign money to fund voter education activities—period. We have strict financial controls in place to ensure this. The funds we receive from American Chambers of Commerce abroad, bilateral business councils, and non-U.S.-based global companies represent a small fraction of our more than $200 million annual revenues. Under our accounting system, these revenues are never used to support any political activities. We are in full compliance with all laws and regulations.\" Organizations Moveon.org, Think Progress, and People for the American Way rallied against the Chamber at the Justice Department to start an injunction for a criminal investigation. The Chamber is not required to produce fundraising records.\n\nPresident Barack Obama and other legislators asked the IRS and Federal Elections Commission to ensure that the foreign funds that the Chamber receives are not used for political activities. Obama criticized the Chamber for not disclosing its contributors. The Chamber has responded that \"No foreign money is used to fund political activities.\" After the election, the Chamber reiterated the nature of Obama's policy dictated action from the Chamber, however the conflict would not be made \"personal\".\n\nIn addition to the expenditures from the Chamber's own funds, in 2010 its political action committee gave $29,000 (89 percent) to Republican candidates and $3,500 (11 percent) to Democratic candidates. The Chamber's PAC received a total of 76 donations from individual donors ($200 or more donation) totaling $79,852 in 2007-2008, or an average of $1050 per donation, and three donations per month.\n\nDespite more than $33 million spent supporting candidates in the 2012 Congressional races, Chamber-backed candidates lost 36 out of the 50 elections in which the Chamber participated.\n\nIn late 2013 the Chamber announced it would distribute campaign contributions in \"10s\" of Republican primary elections to oppose the Tea Party movement and create a \"more governable Republican party.\" In early 2014 Tom Donohue clarified that the push would be to elect \"pro-business\" members of Congress \"who favor trade, energy development and immigration reform\".\n\nAs of the organization's website in 2015, the leadership was:\n\nIn April 2009, the Chamber began an ad campaign against the proposed Employee Free Choice Act. Critics such as the National Association of Manufacturers have contended that additional use of card check elections will lead to overt coercion on the part of union organizers. Opponents of the Employee Free Choice Act also claim, referring to perceived lack of access to a secret ballot, that the measure would not protect employee privacy. For this reason the Chamber argued the act would reduce workers' rights.\n\nIn November 2009, the Chamber was reported to be seeking to spend $50,000 to hire a \"respected economist\" to produce a study that could be used to portray health-care legislation as a job killer and threat to the nation's economy.\n\nIn December 2009, activist group Velvet Revolution, under the name StopTheChamber, posted a $200,000 reward for \"information leading to the arrest and conviction of Chamber of Commerce CEO Tom Donahue.\"\n\nSome in the business community have criticized the Chamber's approach to public issues as overly aggressive. Hilary Rosen, former CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America, added that \"Their aggressive ways are out of step with a new generation of business leadership who are looking for more cooperative relationship with Washington.\"\n\nThe climate campaign organization 350.org estimates that 94% of US Chamber of Commerce electoral contributions went to candidates denying the scientific consensus on climate change.\n\nThe Chamber's senior vice president for environment, technology, and regulatory affairs William L. Kovacs threatened to sue the Environmental Protection Agency in order to have what he termed \"the Scopes monkey trial of the 21st century\" on climate science before any federal climate regulation was passed in October 2009. Chamber CEO Tom Donohue disavowed the comment, but the Chamber strongly opposed the American Clean Energy and Security Act. In response to this position, several companies quit the Chamber, including Exelon Corp, PG&E Corp, PNM Resources, and Apple Inc. Nike, Inc resigned from their board of directors position, but continued their membership. Nike stated that they believe they can better influence the policy by being part of the conversation. Peter Darbee, CEO of former chamber member PG&E (a natural gas and electric utility company in California), said, \"We find it dismaying that the Chamber neglects the indisputable fact that a decisive majority of experts have said the data on global warming are compelling... In our view, an intellectually honest argument over the best policy response to the challenges of climate change is one thing; disingenuous attempts to diminish or distort the reality of these challenges are quite another.\" In response to an online campaign of Prius owners organized by Moveon.org, Toyota stated that it would not leave the Chamber. The Aspen Chamber Resort Association of Aspen, Colorado left the U.S. Chamber because of its views on climate change, in light of how climate change could hurt Aspen's winter tourism industry.\n\nIn 2010, U.S. Chamber president Tom Donohue agreed to work with Senators John Kerry, Lindsey Graham, and Joe Lieberman as they crafted legislation to address climate change; the effort fell apart and failed to produce a bill. In October 2017, Karen Harbert, CEO of the U.S. Chamber's Global Energy Institute, published an op-ed in USA Today criticizing the EPA's Clean Power Plan, saying, \"[t]he plan’s fundamental flaw was that it would have intentionally raised the cost of energy without regard to the impact on families and businesses.\" Harbert also stated, \"To be clear, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believes that the climate is changing, and that man is contributing to these changes. We also believe that technology and innovation, rather than sweeping federal mandates, offer the best approach for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating the impacts of climate change.\"\n\nThe U.S. Chamber opposed President Donald Trump's executive order ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. The U.S. Chamber's Chief Policy Officer Neil Bradley said, \"With approximately 700,000 DACA recipients working for all sorts of businesses across the country, terminating their employment eligibility runs contrary to the president’s goal of growing the U.S. economy.\"\n\nThe Chamber of Commerce has come under attack by conservatives and others for its support of \"amnesty\" for illegal immigrants. In 2014, Tom Donohue stated the Chamber will \"pull out all stops\" for the passage of immigration reform in Congress. According to the Washington Post, Donohue did not offer specifics with regard to provisions or bills on the matter, speaking generally about the impact immigration would have on the U.S. economy.\n\nSeveral organizations have attacked the Chamber for its advocacy, including Chamber Watch (a campaign of Public Citizen). Advocates for independent business, like the American Independent Business Alliance (AMIBA) and \"green businesses,\" like the American Sustainable Business Council, have fought the Chamber on multiple issues. Among major divisions between the Chamber and these business advocates is allowing corporations to engage in electioneering. Oliver E. Diaz says one example of this was when the Chamber spent $1,000,000+ to fund negative campaign ads against him and have judicial candidate Keith Starrett elected instead.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8633896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8633896", "title": "Vusumzi Make", "text": "Vusumzi Make\n\nVusumzi L. Make (1931 – 15 April 2006) was a South African civil rights activist and lawyer. He and the American poet Maya Angelou met in 1961, lived together in Cairo, Egypt, and parted ways in 1962. He was a professor at the University of Liberia in Monrovia, Liberia from 1968 to 1974.\n\nWhen Potlako Leballo, Chairman of the Pan Africanist Congress, was forced out of the position, Make joined a Presidential Council consisting of David Sibeko, Ellias Ntloedibe, and himself. Several months later, Make became the sole Chairman. He resigned from the chairmanship in January 1981 to make way for John Nyathi Pokela, who had been recently imprisoned on Robben Island. Under Pokela, Make served as deputy chairman of the PAC.\n\nMake died on 15 April 2006 in Pretoria. He was survived by his widow Alma Liziwe Make and daughter Titise.\n\n"}
{"id": "157835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157835", "title": "Water table", "text": "Water table\n\nThe water table is the upper surface of the zone of saturation. The zone of saturation is where the pores and fractures of the ground are saturated with water.\n\nThe water table is the surface where the water pressure head is equal to the atmospheric pressure (where gauge pressure = 0). It may be visualized as the \"surface\" of the subsurface materials that are saturated with groundwater in a given vicinity.\n\nThe groundwater may be from precipitation or from groundwater flowing into the aquifer. In areas with sufficient precipitation, water infiltrates through pore spaces in the soil, passing through the unsaturated zone. At increasing depths, water fills in more of the pore spaces in the soils, until a zone of saturation is reached. Below the water table, in the phreatic zone (zone of saturation), layers of permeable rock that yield groundwater are called aquifers. In less permeable soils, such as tight bedrock formations and historic lakebed deposits, the water table may be more difficult to define.\n\nThe water table should not be confused with the water level in a deeper well. If a deeper aquifer has a lower permeable unit that confines the upward flow, then the water level in this aquifer may rise to a level that is greater or less than the elevation of the actual water table. The elevation of the water in this deeper well is dependent upon the pressure in the deeper aquifer and is referred to as the potentiometric surface, not the water table.\n\nThe water table may vary due to seasonal changes such as precipitation and evapotranspiration. In undeveloped regions with permeable soils that receive sufficient amounts of precipitation, the water table typically slopes toward rivers that act to drain the groundwater away and release the pressure in the aquifer. Springs, rivers, lakes and oases occur when the water table reaches the surface. Groundwater entering rivers and lakes accounts for the base-flow water levels in water bodies.\n\nWithin an aquifer, the water table is rarely horizontal, but reflects the surface relief due to the capillary effect (capillary fringe) in soils, sediments and other porous media. In the aquifer, groundwater flows from points of higher pressure to points of lower pressure, and the direction of groundwater flow typically has both a horizontal and a vertical component. The slope of the water table is known as the hydraulic gradient, which depends on the rate at which water is added to and removed from the aquifer and the permeability of the material. The water table does not always mimic the topography due to variations in the underlying geological structure (e.g., folded, faulted, fractured bedrock).\n\nA perched water table (or perched aquifer) is an aquifer that occurs above the regional water table, in the vadose zone. This occurs when there is an impermeable layer of rock or sediment (aquiclude) or relatively impermeable layer (aquitard) above the main water table/aquifer but below the land surface. If a perched aquifer's flow intersects the surface, at a valley wall, for example, the water is discharged as a spring.\n\nOn low-lying oceanic islands with porous soil, freshwater tends to collect in lenticular pools on top of the denser seawater intruding from the sides of the islands. Such an island's freshwater lens, and thus the water table, rises and falls with the tides.\n\nIn some regions, for example, Great Britain or California, winter precipitation is often higher than summer precipitation and so the groundwater storage is not fully recharged in summer. Consequently, the water table is lower during the summer. This disparity between the level of the winter and summer water table is known as the \"zone of intermittent saturation\", wherein the water table will fluctuate in response to climatic conditions.\n\nFossil water is groundwater that has remained in an aquifer for several millennia and occurs mainly in deserts. It is non-renewable by present-day rainfall due to its depth below the surface, and any extraction causes a permanent change in the water table in such regions.\n\nAquifer drawdown or overdrafting and the pumping of fossil water may be a contributing factor to sea-level rise.\n\nMost crops need a water table at a minimum depth because at shallower depths the crop suffers a yield decline. For some important food and fiber crops a classification was made:\n\n"}
{"id": "22820157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22820157", "title": "William Schabas", "text": "William Schabas\n\nWilliam Anthony Schabas, OC (born 19 November 1950) is a Canadian academic in the field of international criminal and human rights law, and has been called 'the world expert on the law of genocide and international law.' He is professor of international law at Middlesex University in the United Kingdom, professor of international human law and human rights at Leiden University in the Netherlands, and an internationally respected expert on human rights law, genocide and the death penalty. He has written over 18 monographs and 200 articles. In 2009 he was elected President of the International Association of Genocide Scholars. He is an Officer of the Order of Canada and a Member of the Royal Irish Academy, as well as holding a position on the Board of Directors of the International Institute for Criminal Investigation and René Cassin, a non-government organisation that presents a Jewish voice on human rights.\n\nSchabas also sits on the advisory board of the \"Israel Law Review\", the \"Journal of International Criminal\" Justice and is editor-in-chief of \"Criminal Law Forum\", the quarterly journal of the International Society for the Reform of Criminal Law.\n\nHe is a member of the Board of Trustees of the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Technical Cooperation in the Field of Human Rights. Schabas served as one of seven commissioners on the Sierra Leone Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and as one of six commissioners on the Iran Tribunal Truth Commission from 18 to 22 June 2012.\n\nAuthor of more than 350 academic journal articles, Schabas has delivered lectures or conference papers in more than fifty countries. Writings have been cited in judgments, decisions and opinions of: International Court of Justice, International Criminal Court, International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, Special Court for Sierra Leone, European Court of Human Rights, Inter-American Court of Human Rights, Supreme Court of Canada, United States Supreme Court, Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, High Court of Tanzania and Supreme Court of Israel.\n\nIn 2014 Schabas was appointed the head of a UN Committee investigating the role of Israel in the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. The appointment was criticized by Canada's Foreign Minister, John Baird, and the Geneva-based advocacy NGO UN Watch, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the American Jewish Committee and is funded by the AJC, on the basis of allegations that Schabas was anti-Israel, a charge he denied. In February 2015 he resigned after an Israeli complaint that he provided legal advice to the Palestine Liberation Organization which is a clear conflict of interests, confirming prior allegations of his alleged bias. Schabas had been hired as a consultant to provide a legal analysis regarding the Palestinian bid for non-member observer status at the United Nations. Schabas stated that he was resigning to stop the controversy from overshadowing the work of the Gaza inquiry, whose results were due in March. Avigdor Lieberman hailed his resignation as an 'achievement for Israeli diplomacy'.\n\nSchabas was born in Cleveland, Ohio, with strong roots in an Ashkenazi Jewish background, though his family name, which is a variation of the Yiddish word for \"Sabbath\" (\"Shabbos\" in Yiddish, derived from \"Shabbat\" in Hebrew), has been interpreted as perhaps suggesting also a Sephardic connection. His mother, Ann (née Fairley), was born in Canada and served as dean of the Faculty of Library and Information Sciences at the University of Toronto. His father, Ezra Schabas, is an American-born Canadian musician and author. His maternal grandparents were Barker Fairley, an English-born painter and scholar, and Margaret Fairley, a writer and educator also born in England. His paternal grandparents came from Galicia, and relatives on his father's side died in the Holocaust.\n\nSchabas moved with his family to Toronto in 1952 and received his B.A. and M.A. degrees in history from the University of Toronto, and LL.B., LL.M. and LL.D. degrees from the Université de Montréal. He has also been awarded honorary doctorates by Dalhousie University, Halifax, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland and Northwestern University, Chicago.\n\nAccording to UN Watch, when Schabas was a Ph.D. student in history at the University of Toronto in 1974, and a leader in the radical SDS group, he was the subject of a university investigation for allegedly violating human rights and freedoms by physically obstructing a visiting Harvard professor from speaking on campus. Schabas was suspended from the university for four years, later reduced to two.\n\nFrom 1991 to 2000 he was a professor of human rights law and criminal law at the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQÀM), and he chaired the Department of Legal Studies from 1994 to 1998. He has taught as a visiting or adjunct professor at several other institutions, including McGill University, Queen's University Belfast, LUISS University in Rome, Cardoza Law School, Panthéon-Assas University and the National University of Rwanda.\n\nSchabas moved to Ireland in 2000, serving as the director of the Irish Centre for Human Rights at the National University of Ireland, Galway, until 2011. That year he moved to London to take up a chair in international law at Middlesex University, London. He is the recipient of the Vespasian V. Pellat Medal for International Criminal Justice of the Association international de droit penal and the Gold Medal in the Social Sciences of the Royal Irish Academy. Schabas was called to the Quebec bar in 1985 and practised law in Montreal for many years. He has also practised at the international level, appearing before the International Court of Justice, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights and the International Criminal Court. Schabas was invited by the Special Court for Sierra Leone to serve as an \"amicus curiae\".\n\nSchabas has participated on several human rights fact-finding missions on behalf of international non-governmental organisations, such as Amnesty International and the International Federation of Human Rights, to such countries as Rwanda, Burundi, Sudan, South Africa and Russia. The 1993 mission to Rwanda, of which he was a member, alerted the international community to the danger of genocide in that country.\n\nIn 2011, Schabas attended a conference in Iran with the Tehran-based Non-Aligned Movement Center for Human Rights and Cultural Diversity where he was a keynote speaker. It was reported that the center has close ties with former Iranian president President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. He attended the conference together with US film producer Sandra Schulberg in order to present a documentary film about the Nuremberg Trial to Iranians, which was welcomed by the audience, and spoke to them about the Holocaust and Nazi atrocities. Schabas states that he went as an academic, and is opposed to academic boycotts of Israel and Iran.\n\nAn interview with Schabas in the journal \"Intellectum\" offers a concise overview of his opinions on Israeli operations in Gaza, the Goldstone Report, racism in Europe, the death penalty, genocide, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in Sierra Leone, the International Criminal Court and its arrest warrant for President Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir of Sudan, and international criminal law in general.\n\nSchabas has been very active in the movement for worldwide abolition of capital punishment. His book \"The Abolition of the Death Penalty in International Law\" and his other writings on the subject have been referred to in judgments by national and international tribunals, including the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, the United States Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Canada and the Supreme Court of the Philippines. Schabas regularly lectures on capital punishment in China and the United States. In 2009 he was a consultant to the United Nations responsible for preparing the Secretary General's five-yearly report on the status of capital punishment. Schabas is the Chair of the Scientific Advisory Board of the International Academic Network Against the Death Penalty and for a Universal Moratorium on Capital Punishment, and Advisor to the International Centre for Death Penalty Research at Beijing Normal University.\n\nFor Schabas, the definition of what constituted the crime of genocide historically, unlike other laws governing international crimes, did not change for nearly 5 decades after its original formulation, though scholars beyond the legal discipline were critical of narrowness of the definition. Reviewing the evolving legal debate, Schabas notes a tendency to merge the notion of genocide with the related concept of crimes against humanity. In his own view, these should be kept distinct, with the former restricted to the definition originally framed in the Geneva Conventions, while the latter is sufficiently broad to prosecute all other cases of mass murder in ethnic and religious conflicts.\n\nSchabas argues that the legal term \"genocide\" is a loaded one that should not be used to describe every atrocity involving mass killings. He argues that, in the strict legal sense, the only true \"genocides\" in recent history were the Armenian Genocide, the Jewish and Gypsy Holocaust, and the Rwandan Genocide. In his book \"Genocide in International Law: The Crime of Crimes\" (Cambridge University Press, 2nd ed., 2009) he supports the view that Stalin's atrocities in the Ukraine, the killings of Slav and Soviet citizens under the Nazi occupation, and the Holodomor were not, legally, genocide. He has been criticized for denying the internationally recognized Srebrenica Genocide. In his book he summarizes the legal opinions regarding the status of the atrocities committed in Bosnia, deeming them ethnic cleansing and not genocide, stating that \"Ethnic cleansing is also a warning sign of genocide to come. Genocide is the last resort of the frustrated ethnic cleanser.\" Schabas also criticises the United Nations General Assembly for recognising ethnic cleansing as genocide.\n\nIn March 1993, Schabas co-authored the \"Report of the Commission of Inquiry into Human Rights Violations in Rwanda\".\n\nIn a later book, \"War Crimes and Human Rights\" (Cambridge University Press, 2008), Schabas states that the killings by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia during the late 1970s lacked \"the ethnic dimension that is part of the essence of the crime [of genocide].\" Schabas took the same position in 2001 in his article \"Cambodia: Was it Really Genocide?\" Further, while he strongly condemns the atrocities in Darfur in \"War Crimes and Human Rights\", Schabas says that they should not be labelled genocide because \"the summary execution\" of non-Arabs in Darfur \"does not establish genocidal intent.\" In \"War Crimes and Human Rights\" he also criticises the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia for finding a joint criminal enterprise to commit genocide in Srebrenica.\n\nIn 2011, the same year Schabas attended the Center for Human Rights and Cultural Diversity conference in Iran in Tehran, he said in a speech that he believes Israeli prime minister Benyamin Netanyahu should be \"in the dock of an international court.\" He also wrote in a law journal article that the Israeli prime minister could be regarded as \"the single individual most likely to threaten the survival of Israel.\"\n\nIn 2012, in regard to the Iranian nuclear program, Shabas wrote that Iran \"very arguably has a claim to require nuclear weapons for defensive purposes\". Regarding Hamas, Shabas said \"If we look at the poor people of Gaza ... all they want is a state – and they get punished for insisting upon this, and for supporting a political party in their own determination and their own assessment that seems to be representing that aspiration.\"\n\nDuring his speech at the Russell Tribunal in 2013, Schabas said that it is his \"profound belief, the international law can be used to demonstrate and underscore the violations committed by the state of Israel, and moreover can be used to hold accountable individuals who have perpetrated international crimes against the people of Palestine.\" Asked about various possible tools for prosecuting Israel, Schabas said: \"I would have been inclined to talk about crimes against humanity, war crimes, and the crime of aggression, all of which I think can be shown have been perpetrated at various times during the history of the state of Israel. These are all crimes that have become increasingly robust in their definition in recent decades and for which we now have international institutions capable of prosecuting the crimes ... With a bit of luck and by twisting things and maneuvering we can get them before the courts\"\n\nSchabas has accused Israel of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and aggression committed \"on the territory of Palestine since 2002\", while acknowledging that \"much of [his] effort\" is focused on bringing about the prosecution of Israelis at the ICC.\n\nThe United Nations Human Rights Council adopted a resolution on 23 July 2014 calling on establishment of a commission of inquiry to investigate all alleged violations of international humanitarian laws carried out by Israel during the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. Schabas was appointed the head of a three-member commission, together with Amal Clooney (Lebanon) who declined the nomination, and Doudou Diène (Senegal). US judge McGowan Davis joined the committee as 3rd member.\n\nSchabas's appointment was criticized by Canada's Foreign Minister, John Baird, and the Geneva-based advocacy NGO UN Watch. They noted that Schabas, remarking on what he sees as the political bias in the choice of cases to prosecute made by the International Criminal Court, had asked: \"Why are we going after the President of Sudan for Darfur and not the President of Israel for Gaza?\" Schabas dismissed Baird's accusation as absurd, noting that he, Schabas, was on the editorial board of the \"Israel Law Review\". In reply to UN Watch's demand he recuse himself on the grounds that he had once criticized Binjamin Netanyahu, Schabas countered:'\"Like everybody inside and outside Israel, I disagree with people. Is everyone in Israel who has an opinion about (Benjamin) Netanyahu anti-Israel?\".'\n\nSchabas said at the time that there was some merit in comments by critics that Israel was being singled out by the UN for human rights violations, but added that double standards and bias in the UN works both ways, at times to Israel's advantage, citing the fact that the United States almost invariably vetoes resolutions critical of Israel in the Security Council. In short, he concluded:\n\nLet's just say that it's a plausible complaint that maybe Israel has gotten a lot of attention at the Human Rights Council but at the same time it has perhaps had a lot of inattention at the Security Council, so the double standards work in both directions for Israel.\n\nThe Israeli government condemned the appointment of Schabas, and Israel's Ambassador to the UN, Ron Prosor, said in an interview \"Forming an investigatory committee headed by Schabas is like inviting ISIS to organize religious tolerance week at the UN.\" Schabas replied that he does not hate Israel and that he will put his prior positions aside, adding: \"Even if Spiderman was heading the probe, they [Israel] would've attacked him.\"\n\nIn February 2015 Schabas resigned after an Israeli complaint that he had billed the Palestine Liberation Organization for $US1,300 in 2012 for legal advice he gave them at their request, a precedent which might constitute evidence of a conflict of interest with his position as head of the investigative committee. He stated that he did not want the controversy to overshadow the work of the Gaza inquiry. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called on the UNHRC to shelve its report: \"After the resignation of the committee chairman, who was biased against Israel, the report must not be published\". Avidor Liberman attributed Schabas's resignation to Israel's diplomatic work, stating that: \"appointing Schabas to investigate Israel was like appointing Cain to investigate Abel.\" In reply, Schabas said the Prime Minister was entitled to spin the matter any way he liked, and that both he and Avigdor Liberman were \"masters of extravagant and ridiculous statements.\" According to Israeli commentator Gideon Levy, Schabas had fallen victim to investigative character assassination.\n\nIn an interview with the BBC Schabas admitted that \"there is a distortion in the amount of attention given against Israel, and the number of resolutions directed against Israel\" but defended the claim by saying Israel gets a \"soft ride in the Security Council hearings.\"\n\nSchabas has written or edited twenty-one books dealing in whole or in part with international human rights law, including: \n\nHe has also published more than three hundred articles in academic journals, primarily in the fields of international human rights law and international criminal law.\n\n"}
{"id": "370623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370623", "title": "Worshipful Company of Plaisterers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Plaisterers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Plaisterers is one of the livery companies in the City of London. The Plaisterers' Company was incorporated under a Royal Charter in 1501 and whilst the spelling used in the charter was \"Plaisterer\", some later charters used the alternative spelling of \"plasterer\", nonetheless, the company uses the original spelling.\n\nThe company's first hall was bequeathed by William Elder, Citizen and Plaisterer in 1556. It was situated on the corner of Addle Street and Philip Lane but was destroyed in the Great Fire of London in 1666. Its second hall was built in 1669 to the design of Sir Christopher Wren, although this too met the same sad fate by being destroyed by fire in 1882.\n\nThe company originated as a trade association of London's plasterers. Today, it maintains a connection with the trade by establishing plastering standards and by officially accrediting plasterers. The company is also a charitable and educational institution.\n\nThe Plaisterers' Company ranks forty-sixth in the order of precedence of the City livery companies. Its motto is \"Let Brotherly Love Continue\".\n\nIts hall, opened in November 1972, has décor throughout of the neo-classical style created by Robert Adam in the 18th century. His various designs have been faithfully reproduced in great detail both on plaster and wood, some being taken from his original moulds. Plaisterers' Hall is the largest and one of the finest City livery halls in London. \n\n"}
{"id": "9784299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9784299", "title": "Youth politics", "text": "Youth politics\n\nYouth politics is a category of issues which distinctly involve, affect or otherwise impact youth.\n\nWith roots in the early youth activism of the Newsboys and Mother Jones' child labor protests at the turn of the 20th century, youth politics were first identified in American politics with the formation of the American Youth Congress in the 1930s. In the 1950s and 1960s organizations such as the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and Students for a Democratic Society were closely associated with youth politics, despite the broad social statements of documents including the liberal Port Huron Statement and the conservative Sharon Statement and leaders such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.. Other late-period figures associated with youth politics include Tom Hayden, Marian Wright Edelman and Bill Clinton.\n\nWithin India, few organizations exist that engage with youth and politics, besides the youth wings of political parties. Recently Young India Foundation has been working on a campaign to increase young people in politics by helping them win elections and decrease the age of candidacy in India of MPs/MLAs from 25 to better reflect the large young demographic of India called India's Age of Candidacy\n\nShantanu Gupta's famous TEDx talk, on Youth, Politics and Change is very popular among young political aspirants. In his talk Shantanu explains various feeder lines to politics in Indian context.\n\nYouth politics have an extensive history in Europe, as well. Free German Youth was founded in 1936 as a communist alternative to the Nazi Youth movement.\n\nIn the UK there is a strong youth politics movement, consisting primarily of the British Youth Council, the UK Youth Parliament and the Scottish Youth Parliament. Although they have no direct power, the young people in these organisations have a close working relationship with Members of Parliament and are fairly influential, albeit ineffectual at bringing about direct change or tangible objectives. Many organisations that strive for youth movement are on the rise. A notable organisation is YouthDebates, an online organisation aiming to engage young people into the world of politics.\n\nOther continents have experienced a variety of youth politics and political movements.\nFrance:\nIn the recent Mexico’s presidential election another manifestation of how the youth take the politics in the actual world were see, the students movement called “Yo soy 132” made a very notable change in how the elections developed, showing proofs of the electoral fraud they thought will happen, they changed the percentage of acceptation of the PRI candidate, Enrique Peña Nieto and they achieved to decrease it around 12 percentage points between the highest poll results for the candidate and the final results of the elections.\n\nBetween the influence of mainstream media and politicians, youth politics in the United States has been illegitimated and deprioritized. Organizations such as National Youth Rights Association and The Freechild Project continue to advocate and educate for issues that affect young people specifically, while other organizations, including Youth Service America and Advocates for Youth work for issues that affect youth directly. The children's rights movement is widely credited with keeping youth politics on the national radar, while other fledgling movements such as youth voice and youth participation have yet to gain the spotlight.Even with the efforts of these organizations, many college students do not see politics as an important part of their lives. Only 33% of college freshman think being knowledgeable about politics to be important. Data collected in by the National Center for Education Statistics found that overall young Americans care more about entertainment and sports than political and foreign news. Despite these statistics there is a positive outlook on youth involvement in the future because of the 2008 election when President Barack Obama ran.\n\nThere are several issues which are deemed \"youth politics\" by politicians, mainstream media and other sources.\n\nThere are thousands of youth political organizations and programs around the world.\n\nGovernance website.\n"}
{"id": "295909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295909", "title": "Zero tolerance", "text": "Zero tolerance\n\nA zero-tolerance policy is one which imposes strict punishment for infractions of a stated rule, with the intention of eliminating undesirable conduct. Zero-tolerance policies forbid persons in positions of authority from exercising discretion or changing punishments to fit the circumstances subjectively; they are required to impose a pre-determined punishment regardless of individual culpability, extenuating circumstances, or history. This pre-determined punishment, whether mild or severe, is always meted out.\n\nZero-tolerance policies are studied in criminology and are common in formal and informal policing systems around the world. The policies also appear in informal situations where there may be sexual harassment or Internet misuse in educational and workplace environments. In 2014, the mass incarceration in the United States based upon minor offenses has resulted in an outcry on the use of zero tolerance in schools and communities.\n\nLittle evidence supports the claimed effectiveness of zero-tolerance policies. One underlying problem is that there are a great many reasons why people hesitate to intervene, or to report behavior they find to be unacceptable or unlawful. Zero-tolerance policies address, at best, only a few of these reasons.\n\nAccording to the \"Online Etymology Dictionary\", the first recorded use of the term \"zero tolerance\" was in 1972. It was originally used in politics in the United States.\n\nAn earlier use of the term came in the mid-1960s, in reference to an absolute ban of the pesticide heptachlor by the United States Food and Drug Administration; for example, in an article that appeared in the June 1963 issue of Popular Mechanics, it is stated that \"Heptachlor, though, is even more toxic and has been given a 'zero tolerance' by the FDA; that is, not even the slightest trace of heptachlor is permitted on food.\"\n\nThe idea behind zero-tolerance policies can be traced back to the \"Safe and Clean Neighborhoods Act\", approved in New Jersey in 1973, which has the same underlying assumptions. The ideas behind the 1973 New Jersey policy were later popularized in 1982, when a US cultural magazine, \"The Atlantic Monthly\", published an article by James Q. Wilson and George L. Kelling about the broken windows theory of crime. Their name for the idea comes from the following example:\n\nAccording to scholars, zero tolerance is the concept of giving \"carte blanche\" to the police for the inflexible repression of minor offenses, homeless people, and the disorders associated with them. A well-known criticism to this approach is that it redefines social problems in terms of security, it considers the poor as criminals, and it reduces crimes to only \"street crimes\", those committed by lower social classes, excluding white-collar crimes.\n\nOn the historical examples of the application of \"zero tolerance\" kind of policies, nearly all the scientific studies conclude that it didn't play a leading role in the reduction of crimes, a role which is claimed by its advocates. On the other hand, large majorities of people who are living in communities in which zero tolerance policing has been followed believe that in fact it has played a key, leading role in reducing crime in their communities. It has been alleged that in New York City, the decline of crimes rate started well before Rudy Giuliani came to power in 1993, and none of the decreasing processes had particular inflection under him. and that in the same period, the decrease in crime was the same in the other major US cities, even those with an opposite security policy. But the experience of the vast majority of New Yorkers led them to precisely the opposite conclusion and allowed a Republican to win and retain the Mayor's office for the first time in decades in large part because of the perception that zero tolerance policing was key to the improving crime situation in New York City. On the other hand, some argue that in the years 1984-7 New York already experienced a policy similar to Giuliani's one, but it faced a crime increase instead.\n\nTwo American specialists, Edward Maguire, a Professor at American University, and John Eck from the University of Cincinnati, rigorously evaluated all the scientific work designed to test the effectiveness of the police in the fight against crime. They concluded that \"neither the number of policemen engaged in the battle, or internal changes and organizational culture of law enforcement agencies (such as the introduction of community policing) have by themselves any impact on the evolution of offenses.\" They argue that crime decrease was due not to the work of the police and judiciary, but to economic and demographic factors. The main ones were an unprecedented economic growth with jobs for millions of young people, and a shift from the use of crack towards other drugs.\n\nAn alternative argument comes from Kelling and William Bratton, Giuliani's original police chief, who argue that broken windows policing methods did contribute to the decrease in crime, but that they were not a form of zero tolerance:\nSheldon Wein has set out a list of six characteristics of a zero tolerance policy:\nWein sees these points as representing \"focal meaning\" of the concept, namely, that not each one need be met literally, yet that any policy that clearly meets all six of these conditions would definitely be seen as a case of a zero tolerance policy.\n\nVarious institutions have undertaken zero-tolerance policies, for example, in the military, in the workplace, and in schools, in an effort to eliminate various kinds of illegal behavior, such as harassment. Proponents hope that such policies will underscore the commitment of administrators to prevent such behavior. Others raise a concern about this use of zero-tolerance policies, a concern which derives from analysis of errors of omission versus errors of commission. Here is the reasoning: Failure to proscribe unacceptable behavior may lead to errors of omission—too little will be done. But zero tolerance may be seen as a kind of ruthless management, which may lead to a perception of \"too much being done\". If people fear that their co-workers or fellow students may be fired, terminated, or expelled, they may not come forward at all when they see behavior deemed unacceptable. (This is a classic example of Type I and type II errors.) The Type Two error, where it occurs with respect to zero tolerance, leads to the situation where too stringent a policy may actually reduce reports of illegal behavior.\n\nIn the United States, zero tolerance, as an approach against drugs, was originally designed as a part of the War on Drugs under Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, ostensibly to curb the transfer of drugs at US borders. Law-enforcement was to target the drug users rather than the transporters or suppliers under the assumptions that harsh sentences and strict enforcement of personal use would reduce demand and, therefore, strike at root cause of the drug problem. The policy did not require additional laws; instead existing law was enacted with less leniency. Similar concepts in other countries, such as Sweden, Italy, Japan, Singapore China, India, and Russia have since been labeled zero tolerance.\n\nA consistence of zero tolerance is the absolute dichotomy between the legality of any use and no use, equating all illicit drugs and any form of use as undesirable and harmful to society. This is contrasting to viewpoints of those who stress the disparity in harmfulness among drugs, and would like to distinguish between occasional drug use and problem drug use. Although some harm reductionists also see drug use as generally undesirable, they hold that the resources would do more good if they were allocated toward helping problem drug users instead of combating all drug users. As an example, research findings from Switzerland indicate that emphasis on problem drug users \"seems to have contributed to the image of heroin as unattractive for young people.\"\n\nOn a more general level, zero-tolerance advocates holds the aim at ridding the society of all illicit drug use and that criminal justice has an important role in that endeavor. The Swedish parliament for example set the vision \"a drug-free society\" as the official goal for the drug policy in 1978. These visions were to prompt new practices inspired by Nils Bejerot, practices later labeled as Zero tolerance. In 1980 the Swedish attorney general finally dropped the practice of giving waivers for possession of drugs for personal use after years of lowering the thresholds. The same year, police began to prioritize drug users and street-level drug crimes over drug distributors. In 1988 all non medicinally prescribed usage became illegal and in 1993 the enforcement of personal use were eased by permitting the police to take blood or urine samples from suspects. This unrelenting approach towards drug users, together with generous treatment opportunities, have won UNODC's approval, and is cited by the UN as one of the main reasons for Sweden's relatively low drug prevalence rates. However, that interpretation of the statistics and the more general success of Sweden's drug policies are highly questioned.\n\nThe term is used in the context of driving under the influence of alcohol, referring to a lower illegal blood alcohol content for drivers under the age of 21. In the US, the legal limit in all states is now .08%, but for drivers under 21 the prohibited level in most states is .01% or .02%. This is also true in Puerto Rico despite a drinking age of 18.\n\nIn Europe, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, and Sweden have zero-tolerance laws for drugs and driving, as opposed to the other main legal approach where laws forbidding impaired driving is enacted instead. The legislation among countries that practice zero tolerance on drug use for drivers varies. Only a limited set of (common) drugs are included in the zero-tolerance legislation in Germany and Belgium, where in Finland and Sweden all controlled substances fall into the scope of zero tolerance, if they are not covered by a prescription.\n\nIn Argentina, the Cordoba State Highway Patrol enforces a zero-tolerance policy.\n\nIn Asia, Japan also practices zero-tolerance for alcohol and driving. The people caught driving after drinking, including the next morning if there are still traces of alcohol, receive a fine and can be fired. Foreigners may even be deported.\n\nZero-tolerance policies have been adopted in schools and other education venues around the world. These policies are usually promoted as preventing drug abuse, violence, and gang activity in schools. In schools, common zero-tolerance policies concern possession or use of drugs or weapons. Students and, sometimes staff, parents, and other visitors, who possess a banned item or perform any prohibited action for any reason are automatically punished. School administrators are barred from using their judgment, reducing severe punishments to be proportional to minor offenses, or considering extenuating circumstances. For example, the policies treat possession of a knife identically, regardless of whether the knife is a blunt table knife being used to eat a meal, a craft knife used in an art class, or switchblade with no reasonable practical or educational value. Consequently, these policies are sometimes derided as \"zero-intelligence policies\".\n\nThere is no credible evidence that zero tolerance reduces violence or drug abuse by students.\n\nThe unintended negative consequences are clearly documented and sometimes severe: school suspension and expulsion result in a number of negative outcomes for both schools and students. Although the policies are \"facially neutral\", minority children are the most likely to suffer the negative consequences of zero tolerance.\n\nThese policies have also resulted in embarrassing publicity for schools and have been struck down by the courts and by Departments of Education, and they have been weakened by legislatures.\n\nSome critics have argued that \"zero tolerance\" policing violates the Law Enforcement Code of Conduct passed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, which says in part: \"The fundamental duties of a police officer include serving the community, safeguarding lives and property, protecting the innocent, keeping the peace and ensuring the rights of all to liberty, equality and justice\" (cited in Robinson, 2002). This code requires that police behave in a courteous and fair manner, that they treat all citizens in a respectable and decent manner, and that they never use unnecessary force. As Robinson (2002: 206) explains:\nZero-tolerance policing runs counter to community policing and logical crime prevention efforts. To whatever degree street sweeps are viewed by citizens as brutal, suspect, militaristic, or the biased efforts of \"outsiders,\" citizens will be discouraged from taking active roles in community building activities and crime prevention initiatives in conjunction with the police. Perhaps this is why the communities that most need neighborhood watch programs are least likely to be populated by residents who take active roles in them.\nCritics say that zero-tolerance policing will fail because its practice destroys several important requisites for successful community policing, namely police accountability, openness to the public, and community cooperation (Cox and Wade 1998: 106).\n\nZero tolerance policies violate principles of health and human services, and standards of the education and healthy growth of children, families and communities. Even traditional community service providers in the 1970s aimed for \"services for all\" (e.g., zero reject) instead of 100% societal exclusion(zero tolerance). Public administration and disability has supported principles which include education, employment, housing, transportation, recreation and political participation in the community. which zero tolerance groups claim are not a right in the US.\n\nOpponents of zero tolerance believe that such a policy neglects investigation on a case-by-case basis and may lead to unreasonably harsh penalties for crimes that may not warrant such penalties in reality. Another criticism of zero-tolerance policies is that it gives officers and the legal system little discretion in dealing with offenders. Zero-tolerance policies may prohibit their enforcers from making the punishment fit the crime.\n\nIt also may cause offenders to go all out, knowing if the punishment is the same for a little or a lot. This phenomenon of human nature is described in an adage that dates back to at least the 17th century, \"might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb\": until 1820, the English law prescribed hanging for stealing anything worth more than one shilling, whether that was a low-value lamb or a whole flock of sheep.\n\nIn the Kids for cash scandal, judge Mark Ciavarella, who promoted a platform of zero tolerance, received kickbacks for constructing a private prison that housed juvenile offenders, and then proceeded to fill the prison by sentencing children to extended stays in juvenile detention for offenses as minimal as mocking a principal on Myspace, scuffles in hallways, trespassing in a vacant building, and shoplifting DVDs from Walmart. Critics of zero-tolerance policies argue that harsh punishments for minor offences are normalized. The documentary Kids for Cash interviews experts on adolescent behaviour, who argue that the zero tolerance model has become a dominant approach to policing juvenile offences after the Columbine shooting.\n\nRecently, argumentation theorists (especially Sheldon Wein) have suggested that, frequently, when people advocate adopting a zero tolerance policy, they commit what he has called the \"zero tolerance fallacy\". Subsequently, Wein has proposed standards which arguments for zero tolerance policies must meet in order to avoid such fallacious inferences.\n\n"}
