{"id": "1849214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849214", "title": "Achieved status", "text": "Achieved status\n\nAchieved status is a concept developed by the anthropologist Ralph Linton denoting a social position that a person can acquire on the basis of merit; it is a position that is earned or chosen. It is the opposite of ascribed status. It reflects personal skills, abilities, and efforts. Examples of achieved status are being an Olympic athlete, being a criminal, or being a college professor.\n\nStatus is important sociologically because it comes with a set of rights, obligations, behaviors, and duties that people occupying a certain position are expected or encouraged to perform. These expectations are referred to as roles. For instance, the role of a \"professor\" includes teaching students, answering their questions, being impartial, appropriately.\n\nAscribed status is a position assigned to individuals or groups based on traits beyond their control, such as sex, race, or parental social status. This is usually associated with \"closed\" societies. Achieved status is distinguished from ascribed status by virtue of being earned.\n\nMany positions are a mixture of achievement and ascription; for instance, a person who has achieved the status of being a physician is more likely to have the ascribed status of being born into a wealthy family. This is usually associated with \"open\" societies or \"social\" class societies.\n\nSocial mobility refers to one's ability to move their status either up or down within the social stratification system, as compared with their family’s status in early life. Some people with achieved status have improved their position within the social system via their own merit and achievements.\n\nSomeone may also have achieved status that decreases their position within the social system, such as by becoming a notorious criminal. In a society that one's position in that society can change due to their actions, either increase or decrease, that society can be referred to as an Open System. A Closed System society would not allow Social mobility as easily as an Open System.\n\nCultural capital is a concept, developed by sociologist Pierre Bourdieu, that can refer to both achieved and ascribed characteristics. They are desirable qualities (either material or symbolic) that contribute to one's social status; any advantages a person has which give him/her a higher status in society. It may include high expectations, forms of knowledge, skill, and education, among other things.\n\nParents provide children with cultural capital, the attitudes and knowledge that make the educational system a comfortable familiar place in which they can succeed easily. There are other types of capital as well; Social capital refers to ones membership in groups, relationships, and networks. It too can have a significant impact on achievement level.\n\nIndustrialization has led to a vast increase in the possible standard of living for the average person but also made this increase necessary. For the productivity of the average worker to rise, he or she had to receive far more education and training. This successively made the average worker much less replaceable and therefore more powerful. Hence, it became necessary to satisfy workers’ demands for a larger share.\n\nAccording to sociologist Rodney Stark, few Americans believe coming from a wealthy family or having political connections is necessary to get ahead. In contrast, many people in other industrialized nations think these factors are necessary for advancement. Americans are more likely than the people in these nations to rate “hard work” as very important for getting ahead. While most nations value hard work, the Italians, for example, are hardly more likely to rate it as very important than they are to think one needs political connections.\n\nPeople with a lower income will generally be a better example of moving up in the social stratification and achieving status. This holds to be evident in most cases because those who accrue a lower income usually have the motivation to achieve a greater status through their own ambitions and hard work. Those of higher income are typically the result of achieving status. In other cases the people of higher income may have unjustly acquired that position, or were ascribed the status and income they hold (such as monarchs, family run businesses, etc.).\n\nThose without the privilege of ascribing their status will generally have the greater motivation of achieving their own status. The general economic well being of the society the person lives in also tends to be another factor in their status and to what extent they are able to achieve their status.\n\nFor example, Americans are less likely than people in other industrialized nations to object to current income variances. According to Rodney Stark, in 1992, only twenty-seven percent of Americans strongly agreed that income disparities in their country were too large. In contrast, more than half of Russians, Italians, and Bulgarians agreed with this statement.\n\nIn all societies a person's social status is the result of both ascribed and achieved characteristics. Societies differ markedly on several dimensions in this process: what attributes are used to assign status, the relative importance of ascribed versus achieved attributes, the overall potential for social mobility, the rates of mobility that actually occurred, and the barriers for particular sub-groups to enjoy upward mobility in that society.\n\nOne's status in medieval Europe was primarily based on ascription. People born into the noble class were likely to keep a high position and people born of peasants were likely to stay in a low position. This political system is known as feudalism and does not allow for much social mobility.\n\nBolivia has had past newspaper advertisements that claimed to have land, animals and peasants for sale. The peasants weren't necessarily slaves but placed in their social class and obligated to work due to their bind to the land they lived and farmed. This sort of social interaction is based mainly on the people's strong belief of tradition and to uphold the actions of the past. In 1971 Ernesto Laclau addressed the argument of whether Latin America was either under a social system of feudalism or capitalism. He determined that the social system was extremely different from the capitalistic system in Europe and America, so therefore Latin America would be more closely related to have a Feudalism approach to social interaction.\n\nThe formation of hierarchy differs somewhere between the polarities of given and achieved status. In caste systems, ascription is the overpowering basis for status. Traditional society in South Asia and other parts of the world such as Egypt, India, Japan, and others were composed of castes. Each group was limited to certain occupations. Low paying occupations such as collecting garbage, were reserved for one caste, whose members were excluded from holding any other occupation. Correspondingly, highly skilled occupations, such as being a priest, goldsmith, were reserved for another caste. However, some people managed through talent and luck to rise above their given caste. For example, great aptitude as a soldier was often a way to reach a higher status.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35716487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35716487", "title": "American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers", "text": "American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers\n\nThe American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO) is a non-profit, voluntary, professional association of more than 11,000 higher education professionals who represent approximately 2,600 institutions in more than 40 countries. Its mission is to provide professional development, guidelines, and voluntary standards to be used by higher education officials regarding the best practices in records management, admissions, enrollment management, administrative information technology, and student services. AACRAO represents institutions in every part of the higher education community, from large public institutions to small, private liberal arts colleges.\n\nAACRAO was established in 1910. It is based in Washington, DC, and claims 11,000 members in 40 countries.\n\nThe association publishes books and reports on topics relevant to its membership, including marketing higher education institutions to students, managing enrollment, academic transfer and transfer credit, fraudulent academic credentials, and good practices in management of academic records.\n\nAACRAO has many corporate partners, including Blackboard Inc., Ad Astra Information Systems, L.L.C., Chegg, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "47505794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47505794", "title": "Ba'athist Arabization campaigns in North Iraq", "text": "Ba'athist Arabization campaigns in North Iraq\n\nThe Ba'athist Arabization campaigns in North Iraq involved the forced displacement and cultural Arabization of minorities (Kurds, Yezidis, Assyrians, Shabaks, Armenians, Turkmen, Mandeans), in line with settler colonialist policies, led by the Ba'athist government of Iraq from the 1960s to the early 2000s, in order to shift the demographics of North Iraq towards Arab domination. The Iraqi Ba'ath party, first under Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr, and later Saddam Hussein, engaged in active expulsion of minorities from the mid-1970s onwards. In 1978 and 1979, 600 Kurdish villages were burned down and around 200,000 Kurds were deported to the other parts of the country.\n\nThe campaigns took place during the Iraqi–Kurdish conflict, being largely motivated by the Kurdish-Arab ethnic and political conflict. The Baathist policies motivating those events are sometimes referred to as \"internal colonialism\", described by Francis Kofi Abiew as a \"Colonial 'Arabization'\" program, including large-scale Kurdish deportations and forced Arab settlement in the region.\n\nThe Yezidis, the Shabaks, the Mandeans and the Assyrians are ethno-religious minorities in Iraq and historically were concentrated in northern Iraq, and they are still sizeable populations there in the early 21st century, in line with more prominent ethnic groups of Kurds and Arabs.\n\nUnder the Iraqi Hashemite monarchy as well as the subsequent Republican regime, Yezidis were discriminated against: measures applied included the loss of land, military repression and efforts to force them into the central state's struggle against the Kurdish National Movement.\n\nFrom early 1975, under the regime of Saddam Hussein, both Kurds and Yazidis were confronted with village destruction, depopulation and deportation. Kurdish displacement in the North in the mid-1970s mostly took place in Sheikhan and Sinjar regions but also covered an area stretching from the town of Khanaqin. The repressive measures carried out by the government against the Kurds after the 1975 Algiers Agreement led to renewed clashes between the Iraqi Army and Kurdish guerrillas in 1977. In 1978 and 1979, 600 Kurdish villages were burned down, and around 200,000 Kurds were deported to the other parts of the country.\n\nArabization concentrated on moving Arabs to the vicinity of oil fields in Kurdistan, particularly the ones around Kirkuk. The Ba'athist government was also responsible for driving out at least 70,000 Kurds from the Mosul’s western half, thus making western Mosul into all Sunni Arab. In Sinjar, in late 1974, the former Committee for Northern Affairs ordered the confiscation of property, the destruction of the mostly Yezidi villages and the forced settlement into 11 new towns with Arab placenames that were constructed 30–40 km orth or south of Sinjar, or other parts of Iraq. There were 37 Yezidi villages destroyed in the process and five neighbourhoods in Sinjar Arabized in 1975. The same year, 413 Muslim Kurd and Yezidi farmers were dispossessed of their lands by the government or had their agricultural contracts cancelled and replaced by Arab settlers. In Sheikhan in 1975, 147 out of a total of 182 villages suffered forced displacement, and 64 villages were handed over to Arab settlers in the years following. Seven new towns were built in Sheikhan to house the displaced Yezidi and Kurdish residents of Arabized villages.\n\nAs part of the Al-Anfal Campaign, during the Iran–Iraq War, Saddam Hussein's régime destroyed 3,000 to 4,000 villages and drove hundreds of thousands of Kurds to become refugees or be resettled across Iraq, as well as Assyrians and Turkmen. Some 100,000 people were killed or died during the al-Anfal campaign, which is often equated to ethnic cleansing and genocide. The forced campaign of Arabization was an attempt to transform the historically multi-ethnic city of Kirkuk, with a strong Kurdish majority, into an Arab city. Kurdish families were left with no homes after being evicted forcefully by Saddam's Iraqi soldiers and so had to migrate to refugee camps.\n\nIn the 1990s, the distribution of land to Arab settlers was resumed and continued until the fall of the Ba'ath regime, in 2003.\n\nIn the Iraqi censuses in 1977 and 1987, Yezidis were forced to register as Arabs and from the mid-1970s, Kurdish was prohibited from being spoken. Some Muslim Kurds were also forced to register as Arabs in 1977.\n\nThe legal basis for Arabization was the Revolutionary Command Council’s Decree (RCCD) No. 795 from 1975 and the RCCD No. 358 from 1978. The former authorized the confiscation of property from members of the Kurdish National Movement, and the latter allowed invalidation of property deeds belonging to displaced Muslim Kurds and Yezidis, the nationalization of their land under the control of the Iraqi Ministry of Finance and the resettlement of the region by Arab families.\n\nAfter the fall of Saddam's regime, many Kurdish families came back to Kirkuk. The policies of Kurdification by KDP and PUK after 2003 aimed to reverse the previous trends of Arabization, with non-Kurds, especially Assyrians and Turkmen, have prompted serious inter-ethnic problems.\n\nThe Kirkuk status referendum is the Kirkuk part of a plebiscite, that will decide whether the Kurdish regions within Iraqi governorates of Diyala, Kirkuk, Salah ad Din and Ninawa (which has an Assyrian majority) will become part of the Iraqi Kurdistan region. The referendum was initially planned for 15 November 2007, but was delayed first to 31 December, and then by a further six months. The Kurdish Alliance emphasized that the delay was for technical and not for political reasons. As the election was not called by early December 2008, it was postponed again as part of the deal to facilitate the regional elections on 31 January 2009. No fresh date has yet been set.\n\nArticle 140 of the Constitution of Iraq states that before the referendum is carried out, measures should be taken to reverse the Arabization policy employed by the Saddam Hussein administration during the Al-Anfal Campaign. Thousands of Kurds returned to Kirkuk following the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The referendum will decide whether enough have returned for the area to be considered Kurdish.\n"}
{"id": "24581206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24581206", "title": "Bavarian Border Police", "text": "Bavarian Border Police\n\nThe Bavarian Border Police ( or \"GrePo\") is a police division within the Bavarian State Police (\"Polizei Bayern\"). It is the third arm of the police force alongside the state police and the so-called 'readiness police' (\"Bereitschaftspolizei\") It existed from 1946 (independently from 1952) to 1998 and was responsible for the federal borders in Bavaria. It was re-established as an independent arm in 2018.\n\nIn 1945 the Bavarian Border Police - then known as the Bavarian State Border Police (\"Bayerische Landesgrenzpolizei\") - was reformed. The latter had existed from 1919 to 1934 in the shape of a Bavarian Border Police Commissariat on the borders between Lindau on Lake Constance and Eger. Its reformation was authorised by VA No. 72 on 15 November 1945 which established a Bavarian State Border Police force, the order taking effect from 1 March 1946. The first units were deployed by the American occupation powers as \"Border Police\".\n\nOn 15 March 1947 the overall responsibility for border control and implementation of Military Government Law No. 161 was transferred to the Bavarian Border Police. However the border police continued to receive their orders from the Military Government. The responsibility for checking members of the allied military forces and their dependents was exclusively carried out by American military personnel.\n\nOn 28 October 1952 the Bavarian Police Organisation law was passed. Articles 34 to 41 of this law governed the border police and their mission which was \"The supervision and policing of the state borders, especially supervision of border traffic and carrying out the dispatch and reception of people, including the supervision of passengers at airports\". Their departments were given descriptions that corresponded to those of the state police.\n\nThe last agreement over responsibilities vis-à-vis the Bundesgrenzschutz was spelt out by an administrative agreement dated 16 July 1975 between the Interior Ministry and the Bavarian State Government which dealt with the exercise of tasks by the border police arm of the police service in Bavaria.\n\nThe only other German state that had its own border police in the post-war era was Hesse, whose border force was operational on the Russian, British and French zones from 1945 until 1 October 1950, when it was officially absorbed into the state police. Events in the late 1980s signalled the end of the Bavarian Border Police. Austria's entry into the EU on 1 January 1995 and on 28 April 1995 to the Schengen Treaty fundamentally changed the situation on the Bavarian-Austrian border.\n\nFrom 1 January 1997 border controls on traffic from Austria were lifted in stages.\n\nWith the incorporation of the Bavarian Border Police into the Bavarian State Police their history came to an end on 31 March 1998. They were replaced by police departments that almost exclusively deal with cross-border traffic. These include: the Missing Persons Police Department (\"Polizeiinspektion Fahndung\" or \"PIF\") with border police stations (GPS) and the Search and Inspection Force (\"Fahndungs- und Kontrolltrupp\" or \"FKT\"). FKT officials are civilian and also work outside Bavaria in areas near the border. The border officers (\"Grenzbeauftragter\") are the only vestige of the old border police that remains.\n\nDue to the European migrant crisis in 2015 and the establishment of permanent border controls to the Austrian border, the state border police has been re-established in 2018. The police force´s headquarter is based in Passau, finally there will be a staff of about 1.000 officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24382579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24382579", "title": "Caucus revolt", "text": "Caucus revolt\n\nA caucus revolt occurs when enough members of a political party pressure its leadership to step down or to remove planned bills,legislation or policies from its platform. A caucus revolt generally concludes with the party leader resigning their position as such a revolt is usually seen to show poor leadership skills. Often the mere appearance of a revolt in the caucus maybe enough to force a leader to step down.\n\nIn Westminster style governments, if the party suffering from a caucus revolt is the current government, often an interim leader will be appointed by the party until a leadership convention can be held to elect a new leader, or a general election can be called should the party leader find a way to survive the revolt.\n\nThe 1937 Social Credit backbenchers' revolt against the premiership of William Aberhart in Alberta ultimately forced the premier to hand over considerable power to a committee of backbenchers, the Social Credit Board. The Board brought in British social credit \"experts\" who proposed radical legislation which led to a constitutional crisis when it was repeatedly blocked: first disallowed by the federal government, then reserved by Lieutenant-Governor John C. Bowen, and ultimately struck down by the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nAfter successfully leading the Liberal Party of Canada and being Prime Minister of Canada for over ten years, Jean Chrétien was forced to step down as both Party Leader and Prime Minister of Canada at the threat of a Caucus Revolt from his longtime Minister of Finance and political rival, Paul Martin Jr.\n"}
{"id": "328969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328969", "title": "Christian democracy", "text": "Christian democracy\n\nChristian democracy is a political ideology that emerged in nineteenth-century Europe under the influence of Catholic social teaching, as well as Neo-Calvinism. Christian democratic political ideology advocates for a commitment to social market principles and qualified interventionism. It was conceived as a combination of modern democratic ideas and traditional Christian values, incorporating the social teachings espoused by the Catholic, Lutheran, Reformed, and Pentecostal traditions in various parts of the world. After World War II, the Protestant and Catholic movements of the Social Gospel and Neo-Thomism, respectively, played a role in shaping Christian democracy. Christian democracy continues to be influential in Europe and Latin America, although it is also present in other parts of the world.\n\nIn practice, Christian democracy is often considered centre-right on cultural, social, and moral issues (and is thus a supporter of social conservatism), and it is considered centre-left \"with respect to economic and labor issues, civil rights, and foreign policy\" as well as the environment. Specifically, with regard to its fiscal stance, Christian democracy advocates a social market economy.\n\nWorldwide, many Christian democratic parties are members of the Centrist Democrat International and some also of the International Democrat Union. Examples of major Christian democratic parties include the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Germany, the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP), Ireland's Fine Gael, the Christian Democratic Party in Chile, In the Caribbean, Aruban People's Party (AVP), Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) from the Netherlands, The Switzerland's Christian Democratic People's Party and the People's Party in Spain. \n\nToday, many European Christian democratic parties are affiliated with the European People's Party. Those with soft Eurosceptic views in comparison with the pro-European EPP are members of the Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe, or the more right-wing European Christian Political Movement. Many Christian democratic parties in the Americas are affiliated with the Christian Democrat Organization of America.\n\nAs a generalization, it can be said that Christian democratic parties in Europe tend to be moderately conservative, and in several cases form the main conservative party in their respective countries (e.g. in Germany, Spain, Belgium, and Switzerland: Christian Democratic People's Party of Switzerland (CVP), Christian Social Party (CSP), Evangelical People's Party of Switzerland (EVP), and Federal Democratic Union of Switzerland (EDU)). In Latin America, by contrast, Christian democratic parties tend to be left-leaning and to some degree influenced by liberation theology. These generalizations, however, must be nuanced by the consideration that Christian democracy does not fit precisely into the usual categories of political thought, but rather includes elements common to several other political ideologies, including conservatism, liberalism, and social democracy.\n\nInitially many Catholic political movements in the 19th century had opposed capitalism and socialism equally as both were seen as based on materialism and social conflict. They instead preferred the ideal of self-sufficient peasants and the guild-organized craftsmen that many Catholic encyclicals advocated. However by 1914, many of these movements had later reconciled themselves to capitalism as the prevailing economic system while at the same time helping to organize Catholic workers and peasants within that system, as socialism became to be seen as the greater threat.\n\nConsequently, this has led the social market economy which has been widely influential across much of continental Europe. The social market is a largely free market economy based on a free price system and private property, but is supportive of government activity to promote competitive markets with a comprehensive social welfare system and effective public services to address social inequalities that result from free market outcomes. The market is seen not so much an end in itself but as a means of generating wealth in order to achieve broader social goals and to maintain societal cohesion. This particular model of capitalism, which is sometimes called Rhine–Alpine capitalism or \"social capitalism\", is contrasted to Anglo-American capitalism or \"enterprise capitalism\". Whereas the former stresses partnership and cooperation, the latter is based on the unrestricted workings of market economics and as a consequence there is a willingness on the part of Christian democratic parties to practice Keynesian and welfarist policies. \n\nIn recent decades, however, some right-leaning Christian democratic parties in Europe have adopted policies consistent with an economically liberal point of view but still supporting a regulated economy with a welfare state, while by contrast other Christian democrats at times seem to hold views similar to Christian socialism, or the economic system of distributism. The promotion of the Christian Democratic concepts of sphere sovereignty and subsidiarity led to the creation of corporatist welfare states throughout the world that continue to exist to this day. In keeping with the Christian Democratic concepts of the cultural mandate and the preferential option for the poor, Christian justice is viewed as demanding that the welfare of all people, especially the poor and vulnerable, must be protected because every human being has dignity, being made in the image of God. In many countries, Christian Democrats organized labor unions that competed with Communist and social democratic unions, in contrast to conservativism's stance against worker organizations. Standing in solidarity with these labor unions, In Belgium for example, Christian Democrats have lobbied for Sunday blue laws that guarantee workers, as well as civil servants, a day of rest in line with historic Christian Sabbath principles.\n\nChristian democrats are usually socially conservative, and, as such, generally have a relatively skeptical stance towards abortion and same-sex marriage, though some Christian democratic parties have accepted the limited legalization of both. Christian Democrats have also supported the prohibition of drugs. Christian democratic parties are often likely to assert the Christian heritage of their country, and to affirm explicitly Christian ethics, rather than adopting a more liberal or secular stance; at the same time, Christian Democratic parties enshrine confessional liberty. Christian Democracy fosters an \"ecumenical unity achieved on the religious level against the atheism of the government in the Communist countries.\"\n\nTraditional moral values (on marriage, abortion, prohibition of drugs etc.), opposition to secularization, opposition to state atheism, a view of the evolutionary (as opposed to revolutionary) development of society, an emphasis on law and order, and a rejection of communism. Christian democrats are open to change (for example, in the structure of society) and not necessarily supportive of the social status quo, have an emphasis on human rights and individual initiative. A rejection of secularism, and an emphasis on the fact that the individual is part of a community and has duties towards it. An emphasis on the community, social justice and solidarity, support for a welfare state, labor unions and support for regulation of market forces. Most European Christian Democrats reject the concept of class struggle (although less so in some Latin American countries, which have been influenced by liberation theology), opposing both excessive State institutions and unregulated capitalism in favor of robust non-governmental, non-profit, intermediary institutions to deliver social services and social insurance.\n\nGeoffrey K. Roberts and Patricia Hogwood have noted that \"Christian democracy has incorporated many of the views held by liberals, conservatives and socialists within a wider framework of moral and Christian principles.\"\n\nChristian Democrats hold that the various sectors of society (such as education, family, economy and state) have autonomy and responsibility over their own sphere, a concept known as sphere sovereignty. One sphere ought not to dictate the obligations of another social entity; for example, the sphere of the state is not permitted to interfere with the raising of children, a role that belongs to sphere of the family. Within the sphere of government, Christian Democrats maintain that civil issues should first be addressed at the lowest level of government before being examined at a higher level, a doctrine known as subsidiarity. These concepts of sphere sovereignty and subsidiarity are considered to be cornerstones of Christian Democracy political ideology.\n\nAs advocates of environmentalism, Christian democrats support the principle of stewardship, which upholds the idea that humans should safeguard the planet for future generations of life.\n\nThe origins of Christian democracy go back to the French Revolution, initially French republicanism and the Catholic church were deeply indifferent to one another as the revolutionary government had attacked the church, confiscated the church's lands, persecuted its priests and had attempted to establish a new religion around reason and the supreme being. After the decades following the French revolution, the Catholic church saw the rise of liberalism as a threat to catholic values. The rise of capitalism and the resulting industrialization and urbanization of society were seen to be destroying the traditional communal and family life. According to the catholic church liberal economics promoted selfishness and materialism with the liberal emphasis on individualism, tolerance, and free expression enabled all kinds of self-indulgence and permissiveness to thrive.\n\nConsequently for much of the 19th century the Catholic church was hostile to democracy and liberalism, later however many political catholic movements were formed in European countries advocating reconciling Catholicism with liberalism if not democracy.\nFrom about the 1870s political Catholicism emerged based on the idea that it was to the Church's advantage to participate in the modern political process, and it became a significant force in Germany, Switzerland, Belgium and Austria. These catholic political movements tended to have many similar policies of opposition to liberal secularism, civil marriage and state control of education. They were against the common view across all forms of liberalism that church and state must be separated, consequently they were also closely connected to the church and confined to the faithful. There was no implied commitment to democracy, these movements merely made use of the political system to the advantage of what they believed to be was right with their ideal goal being the church having a privileged position in the state with it being able to influence policy.\n\nLargely as a result of the papal encyclical \"Rerum novarum\" of Pope Leo XIII, in which the Vatican recognized workers' misery and agreed that something should be done about it, in reaction to the rise of the socialist and trade union movements. The position of the Roman Catholic Church on this matter was further clarified in subsequent encyclicals, such as \"Quadragesimo anno\", by Pope Pius XI in 1931, \"Populorum progressio\" by Pope Paul VI in 1967, \"Centesimus annus\", by Pope John Paul II in 1991, and \"Caritas in veritate\" by Pope Benedict XVI in 2009. At the same time, \"Protestant political activism emerged principally in England, the Lowlands, and Scandinavia under the inspiration of both social gospel movements and neo-Calvinism\". After World War II, \"both Protestant and Catholic political activists helped to restore democracy to war-torn Europe and extend it overseas\". John Witte explaining the origin of Christian democracy, states that:\nAs such, Christian democracy has been adopted by Roman Catholics as well as many Protestant and Eastern Orthodox Christians. Christian democracy has evolved considerably since then, and it is no longer the Catholic ideology of distributism, although it is based on Catholic social teaching, as outlined in the 2006 official \"Catechism of the Social Doctrine of the Catholic Church\". (In Germany, for example, the Christian Democratic Party emerged as a grouping dominated by Rhenish and Westphalian Catholics, but also encompassed the more conservative elements of the Protestant population.) Following World War II, Christian democracy was seen as a neutral and unifying voice of compassionate conservatism, and distinguished itself from the far right. It gave a voice to \"conservatives of the heart\", particularly in Germany, who had detested Adolf Hitler's regime yet agreed with the right on many issues.\n\nIn Protestant countries, Christian democratic parties were founded by more conservative Protestants in reaction to secularization. In the Netherlands, for instance, the Anti-Revolutionary Party was founded in 1879 by conservative Protestants; it institutionalized early 19th century opposition against the ideas from the French Revolution on popular sovereignty and held that government derived its authority from God, not from the people. This Burkean position is sometimes also called Christian Historian. It was a response to the liberal ideas that predominated in political life. The Christian Democrats of Sweden, rooted in the Pentecostal religious tradition, has a similar history.\n\nSome Christian democratic parties, particularly in Europe, no longer emphasize religion and have become much more secular in recent years. Also within Europe, two essentially Islamic parties, the Democratic League of Kosovo and Turkey's ruling Justice and Development Party (usually known by the Turkish acronym AKP, for \"Adalet ve Kalkınma Partisi\") have moved towards the tradition. The Democratic League of Kosovo is now a full member of the Centrist Democrat International \"(see below)\". \n\nChristian democracy can trace its philosophical roots back to Thomas Aquinas and his thoughts on Aristotelian ontology and the Christian tradition. According to Aquinas, human rights are based on natural law and defined as the things that humans need to function properly. For example, food is a human right because without food humans cannot function properly. Modern authors important to the formation of Christian democratic ideology include Emmanuel Mounier, Étienne Gilson, and Jacques Maritain.\n\nChristian Democratic initiatives based on its philosophy also have practical and political results in the movement's direction. Christian Democrats believe in the importance of intermediary organizations that operate in between the individual and the state. Therefore, they support labor unions but in many countries organized their own Christian trade unions separate from socialist unions. These unions in turn formed the strong left wing of many CD parties. Christian democratic opposition to secularism and support of religious organizations as intermediary organizations led to support for church operated schools, hospitals, charities and even social insurance funds. This resulted in strong Christian Democratic support for the government (or mandatory payroll tax) social welfare funding of these institutions.\n\nThe international organization of Christian democratic parties, the Centrist Democrat International (CDI), formerly known as the Christian Democratic International, is the second largest international political organization in the world (second only to the Socialist International). European Christian democratic parties have their own regional organization called the European People's Party, which form the largest group in the European Parliament, the European People's Party Group.\n\nChristian democracy has been especially important in Chile \"(see Christian Democratic Party of Chile)\" and Venezuela (see COPEI Christian Democratic Party of Venezuela), among others, and partly also in Mexico, starting with the ascendancy of President Vicente Fox in 2000, followed by Felipe Calderón \"(see National Action Party (Mexico))\". Cuba counts with several Christian democratic political associations, both on the island and in exile. The most significant is perhaps the Movimiento Cristiano de Liberación (MCL) led by Cuban dissident Oswaldo Payá, who was killed in a tragic automobile accident in the summer of 2012 and has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. In Uruguay, the Christian Democratic Party of Uruguay, although numerically small, was instrumental in the creation of the leftist Broad Front in 1971.\n\nChristian democratic parties in Australia include the Christian Democratic Party, the Democratic Labor Party (regarded by some as a social democratic party), and the former Family First Party (regarded by some as a liberal democratic party).\n\nIn Victoria, and NSW Australian Labor Party (ALP) state executive members, parliamentarians and branch members associated (rightly or wrongly) with the Industrial Groups or B. A. Santamaria and The Movement, were expelled from the party (against that party's rules). They formed a new party, soon to be known as the Democratic Labor Party (DLP). Later in 1957, a similar split occurred in Queensland, with the resulting group subsequently joining the DLP. The party also had sitting members from Tasmania and New South Wales at various times, though it was much stronger in the former mentioned states.\n\nThe party was in agreement with the ruling conservative Liberal and Country parties on many issues, which resulted in their preferencing of these parties over the ALP. However, it was more morally conservative, militantly anti-communist and socially compassionate than the Liberals. The DLP was defeated by the federal election of 1974 that saw its primary vote cut by nearly two thirds, and the entry of an ALP government. The DLP never regained its previous support in subsequent elections and formally disbanded in 1978, but a small group within the party refused to accept this decision and created a small, reformed successor party.\n\nThough his party was effectively gone, Santamaria and his National Civic Council took a strong diametrically opposed stance to dominant Third Way/neoliberal/New Right tendencies within both the ALP and Liberal parties throughout the eighties and early nineties.\n\nIn 2006, the new DLP experienced a resurgence. The successor party struggled through decades of Victorian elections before finally gaining a parliamentary seat when the Victorian upper house was redesigned. Nevertheless, its electoral support is still very small in Victoria (around 2%). It has recently reformed state parties in Queensland and New South Wales. In the Australian federal election, 2010, the DLP won the sixth senate seat in Victoria, giving it representation in the Australian Senate.\n\nAnother Christian party that found strength in 1981 was the Christian Democratic Party (initially known as the \"Call to Australia\" party). It gained 9.1% of the vote in the New South Wales (NSW) state election of 1981. This Protestant party had some very similar social policies to the DLP. Its support base has generally been restricted to NSW and Western Australia, where it usually gains between 2–4% of votes, with its support being minuscule in other states. It has had two members of the NSW Legislative Council for most of its existence and currently holds the Balance of Power. The CDP saw a surge in support during the 2016 Federal Election with a 96% increase in NSW.\n\nAnother Australian Christian democratic party of note is the Family First Party. It has had one or two members in the SA parliament since 2002, and in 2004 also managed to elect a Victorian senator. Its electoral support is small, with the largest constituencies being South Australia (4–6%), and Victoria (around 4%). Family First generally receives lower support in national elections than in state elections. Family First was merged with the Australian Conservatives Party in 2017.\n\nIn the United States, the American Solidarity Party is a minor third party which identifies as a Christian democratic party.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6056098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6056098", "title": "Community Food Security Coalition", "text": "Community Food Security Coalition\n\nThe Community Food Security Coalition was a North American non-profit made up of 325 member organizations who focus on social and economic justice, the environment, nutrition, sustainable agriculture, community development, labor, anti-poverty, and anti-hunger initiatives. The coalition was dedicated to building strong, sustainable, local and regional food systems to ensure access to affordable, nutritious, and culturally appropriate food to all people at all times. The organization encouraged a system for food sovereignty grounded in the principles of justice, democracy, and sustainability. The coalition sought to further these goals through a comprehensive approach of policy advocacy, education and networking, and technical training.\n\nCFSC worked with The California Food and Justice Coalition, supported a national Farm to School and Farm to College network, and advocated for sustainable and equitable national food policies in Washington, DC. Members of the coalition were involved in a number of committees that focus on various aspects of community food security work such as food retail, food and faith, international links, and urban agriculture. The coalition supported community food projects by advocating for and providing assistance to groups receiving or applying to the Community Food Projects Competitive Grants Program.\n\nOn August 6, 2012, the board announced that the organization would transfer projects to other organizations and close.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10691262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10691262", "title": "Competitiveness Policy Council", "text": "Competitiveness Policy Council\n\nThe Competitiveness Policy Council was an independent federal advisory committee chartered in 1988 to advise the president and the Congress on more effective policies to promote U.S. competitiveness. The council had a unique quadrapartite membership composed of representatives from business, labor, government, and the public.\n\nThe council began operation in 1991, and ceased operation in 1997 after the Republican-led Congress failed to continue funding, and after council members decided to close out this successful experiment in the independent advisory function.\n\nAuthority for the council is found in the Competitiveness Policy Council Act, 15 U.S.C. §4801 et seq. This act was part of the larger Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988. The authorization of appropriations for the council expired in Fiscal year 1992, but otherwise the statutory underpinnings for the council remain intact, and the council could be revived by a future president with a pro-competitive agenda.\n\nDuring its years in operation, the Competitiveness Policy Council prepared and issued four Reports to the President and Congress. They were:\n\nThe council adopted a broad approach to American competitiveness defining it as the ability of the United States to produce goods and services that meet the test of international markets while its citizens earn a standard of living that is both rising and sustainable over the long run. This definition differed from others in that era which emphasized the trade balance rather than the overall impact of governmental policies on national economic prosperity. The council's first report, \"Building a Competitive America\" (March 1992) explained that \"three elements permeate our society and most directly hurt our competitive position: short-termism, perverse incentives, and absence of global thinking.\"\n\nTo help analyze the problems of faltering U.S. competitiveness, the council in its first year, established eight subcouncils to study and recommend solutions for the most critical problems hindering U.S. competitiveness. These subcouncils were: capital formation, education, training, public infrastructure, corporate governance and financial markets, trade policy, manufacturing, and critical technologies. Additional subcouncils were established in later years.\n\nThe council was led by Dr. C. Fred Bergsten, then the Director of the Institute for International Economics (now the Peterson Institute). Chairman Bergsten was elected by nongovernmental Council members at the first meeting. The council was composed of 12 members who were appointed through a well-crafted process dictated by statute that provided for quadrapartite and bipartisan representation. Specifically, there were three members from the business community, three from organized labor, three from federal or state government, and three from academia and public interest. Four members were appointed by the president, four by the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Minority Leader acting jointly, and four by the Majority and Minority leaders of the U.S. Senate acting jointly. \n\nBoth Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton made appointments. The appointments process for the council was unusual, in providing for equal weight to representatives from business and labor.\n\nOver its life, the members of the council and key staff included:\n\n\nThe council's statutory legislative charter contains a number of innovative administrative features. For example, one duty of the council is to create a \"forum\" where national leaders with experience could identify and development recommendations to address actual problems facing America. The council is empowered to hold hearings and to establish Subcouncils on any issue. An unusual provision of the CPC Act provides that any discussion at the Subcouncil shall not be considered to violate any Federal or state antitrust law.\n\nThe establishment of the Competitiveness Policy Council (CPC) was inspired, in part, by the favorable reception to the 1985 Report of the President's Commission on Industrial Competitiveness (chaired by John A. Young). A year following the Young Commission Report, a private sector Council on Competitiveness was set up, which remains in existence. The CPC developed a cooperative relationship with the Council on Competitiveness which enhanced the CPC's work product. The two Councils were easily distinguishable, however, in that the membership of the federally established CPC included a federal cabinet-level official and s state elected official. Thus, the deliberation of the CPC was able to benefit from the input of governmental members. By contrast, the private-sector Council on Competitiveness lacks governmental members.\n\nThe council made a number of important recommendations during its years of operation regarding pensions, education, public investment, trade negotiations, and many other issues. Some of the recommendations by the council were not adopted. For example, the council recommended an immediate implementation of the provision in federal law calling for the Executive Branch to attach a \"competitiveness impact statement\" to any new legislative proposal to the Congress which may affect U.S. competitiveness. This recommendation was not adopted. The council also championed the centrality of manufacturing in any national competitiveness strategy. The Obama Administration picked up on this recommendation in September 2009 when the President appointed the first White House counselor for manufacturing.\n\nOver a hundred individuals assisted the council's efforts by serving in the subcouncils.\n\nSome of these experts included:\n\n\nIn April 1996, the U.S. Congress approved a $50,000 appropriation for the council, but also provided that \"this shall be the final Federal payment to the Competitiveness Policy Council.\" In July 1996, a Report of the House Appropriations Committee withheld new funding for the council for FY1997, and noted that \"the Committee believes that the Council is duplicative of private sector organizations, such as the Council on Competitiveness, which focus on the same issues without the use of Federal funds.\"\n"}
{"id": "262977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262977", "title": "Constant Nieuwenhuys", "text": "Constant Nieuwenhuys\n\nConstant Anton Nieuwenhuys (21 July 1920 – 1 August 2005), better known as Constant, was a Dutch painter, sculptor, graphic artist, author and musician.\n\nConstant was born in Amsterdam on 21 July 1920 as the first son of Pieter Nieuwenhuijs and Maria Cornelissen. Their second son, Jan Nieuwenhuys, was born a year later. Both sons became artists although their parents had no apparent interest in art.\n\nAs a young child Constant drew passionately and showed great talent. He read literature with a special preference for poetry and played musical instruments. During his teenage years he learned to sing and to read music while in the church choir at a Jesuit school. In his later years, greatly inspired by gypsy music, he only played improvised music. He played guitar, violin and at 45 years of age also mastered playing the cimbalon.\n\nConstant painted his first oil painting, \"De Emmaüsgangers\", at age sixteen. It depicted the revelation of Jesus to two of his followers in Emmaus. With no money to buy materials he painted this painting on a jute sugar bag with pigments he had bought from a house painter. Many of Constant's early drawings and paintings are religiously inspired, due to his Jesuit schooling. Yet at the age of twenty Constant turned his back on Catholicism.\n\nAfter one year studying at the Kunstnijverheidsschool (Arts and Crafts School), Constant attended the Rijksakademie voor Beeldende Kunst (State Academy of Fine Arts) from 1939 to 1941. This education in craftmanship was put to use especially during his \"New Babylon\" period, when Constant built many constructions and models.\n\nConstant lived and worked in Bergen from 1941 to 1943. Through the Bergense School he was introduced to the work of Paul Cézanne, which impacted him deeply, as evident in \"Zelfportret\" (Self Portrait), 1942.\n\nThe city of Bergen was evacuated by the Germans in 1943 and so Constant and his wife Matie van Domselaer, whom he married in July 1942, moved back to Amsterdam. During this period Constant went into hiding and refrained from registering at the Kulturkammer (Nazi Chamber of Culture) to avoid the Arbeitseinsatz (labour supply for the Germans). Because of this he was unable to conventionally exercise his craft or to buy art supplies. To paint Constant used tablecloths and bed linen and had to rinse them out to start again.\n\nDuring the war Constant's brother in law, Jaap van Domselaer, moved into the apartment to hide from the 'Arbeitseinsatz.' He introduced Constant to Plato, Spinoza, Descartes, Kant, Hegel and Marx. Especially the latter provided great inspiration to Constant regarding his later ideas on art and society.\n\nDuring the winter famine of 1944 Constant's first son, Victor Nieuwenhuys, was born. After the war, Constant, his wife and son moved back to Bergen only to return to Amsterdam in 1946 where they lived in an apartment across from the zoo Artis. When the war ended Constant was able to expand and grow as an artist after years of captivity and limitations. He liberated himself artistically and experimented with multiple techniques of art-making. He was inspired by Cubism, especially by Georges Braque. In 1946 his daughter Martha was born, followed by his daughter Olga in 1948.\n\nIn 1946 Constant travelled to Paris for the first time where he met the young Danish painter Asger Jorn. The friendship between Jorn and Constant later formed the basis for the avant-garde movement CoBrA.\n\nJuly 1948 Constant founded Reflex \"\" with Corneille, Karel Appel and his brother Jan Nieuwenhuys. The first edition of the magazine \"Reflex\" was published with a manifesto written by Constant. For Constant art had to be experimental. He had deducted this from the French word 'expérience' and believed that art springs from experience of the artist and is continuously changing. In the manifesto he stated that the process of creation is more important to the experimental artist than the work itself; it is a means to reach spiritual and mental enrichment. Also, the work of experimental artists is a mirror image of changes in the general perception of beauty.\n\nConstant, Corneille and Appel, three totally different characters and artists, were united in their quest for innovation. They exhibited their work together and were often seen together in the European art scene. The wanderlust of the three is especially notorious.\n\nLater in the year 1948 on the terrace of café Notre Dame in Paris the \"Experimentele Groep in Holland\" linked up with Christian Dotremont and Joseph Noiret from Belgium and Asger Jorn from Denmark to form CoBrA, a name which was made by Dotremont, formed by the first letters of their hometowns: Copenhagen, Brussels and Amsterdam. The members opposed aesthetics in painting and bourgeois art in general.\n\nConstant had already outlined their ideas in his manifesto in \"Reflex\" magazine. This manifesto contains another of his famous quotes: \"A painting is not a structure of colours and lines, but an animal, a night, a cry, a man, or all of these together\".\n\nConstant was productive during the CoBrA period. \"White Bird\" (1948), \"Ladder\" (1949) and \"Scorched Earth I\" (1951) are some of his noted works from this period. At this time CoBrA published bulletin additional artists from several different disciplines joined their ranks. In 1948 Constant, together with poet Gerrit Kouwenaar, published a poetry album \"Goede Morgen Haan\". Additionally there were two large CoBrA exhibitions, one in Amsterdam in 1949 and one in Liège in 1951.\n\nThe director of the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam (Municipal Museum of Amsterdam), Willem Sandberg, was very supportive of young artists and fully supported the CoBrA group by giving them seven large rooms to exhibit their work in. Most of the CoBrA works had been fairly small due to their lack of money and so Sandberg gave the artists an advance to create some larger works in the week before the exhibition. Constant, Corneille, Appel and Eugène Brands created several large pieces of art that have become iconic for the movement. The architect Aldo van Eyck was commissioned to shape the exhibition. The works of art as well as the way they were presented give rise to harsh critique from press and public. A critic from Het Vrije Volk wrote: \"Geklad, geklets en geklodder in het Stedelijk Museum\" (\"Smirch, twaddle and mess in the Municipal Museum\"). The CoBrA artists were considered scribblers and con artists.\n\nIn the Liège exhibition in 1951, even larger than the Stedelijk exhibition, the CoBrA group dissolved itself and with its tenth edition bulletin publication. As Christian Dotremont, the international secretary, stated in Museum News in 1962 the group would rather \"mourir en beauté\" (die in beauty) than become a regular artist interest group.\n\nAfter CoBrA Constant's work became more abstract. Back in Amsterdam in the summer of 1952 he developed an interest in spatial architecture and three-dimensional works. With Aldo van Eyck, whom he met during his CoBrA time, he created a space for the exhibition 'Man and House' at the Urban Museum Amsterdam from 1952-1953. In 1954 he worked on a project with Gerrit Rietveld. Together they created a model house for warehouses de Bijenkorf.\n\nIn 1952 Constant received a scholarship from the Arts Council of Great Britain to study in London for three months. There he met, amongst others, Henry Moore, Anthony Hill, Kenneth Martin, Ben Nicholson, Barbara Hepworth, Roger Hilton and Victor Pasmore. He found the art climate in London very welcoming. As opposed to Paris, Constant felt that art was judged more objectively.\n\nAt that time Constant lived near Kensington Gardens and as he walked through the bombed city every day he started to wonder how people live and how cities should be built. His stay in London raised his awareness of how the constructions that surround us influence us. He felt that the constructions of his time were mostly practical, immensely dull and provided no room to develop playful and creative lifestyles.\n\nIn the summer of 1956 Asger Jorn invited Constant to Alba, Piedmont, Italy, for a congress dedicated to 'Industry and the Fine Arts' initiated by 'Mouvement pour un Bauhaus Imaginiste' (International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus). At this congress Constant presented his lecture \"Demain la poésie logera la vie\" in which he pleaded for a free architecture which could stimulate a creative lifestyle rather than impede it.In 1952 Debord had founded the Lettrist International for which he was a writer, filmmaker and strategic activist. The 'Lettrist International' were also at the Alba congress and they pleaded for a unitary urbanism (the synthesis of art and technology). Later that year Constant visited Debord in Alba, which proved to be an inspiration for both. \n\nDebord wanted to establish an even more radical movement which would totally abandon the arena of fine art while solely focusing on questions of psychogeography, a total dissolution of boundaries between art and life. In 1957 he and Asger Jorn brought together the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus and the Lettrist International by establishing Situationist International. They specifically denied their status as an art movement.\n\nConstant did not join SI at that time. He objected to the SI on the ground that the movement seemed to be established mainly by artists who have their own interest at heart more than a common goal. When SI openly pleaded for 'unitary urbanism', as defined by Constant and Debord, Constant joined. An intensive correspondence between him and Debord followed. Constant wrote several theoretical articles for the French SI journal and staged events at several museums in Paris as well as the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam, where he showed his \"New Babylon\" series in 1959.\n\nThe success of the \"New Babylon\" show in 1959 prompted SI to plan a group exhibition there in April–May 1960. This exhibition would never take place. Disagreements in the group resulted in a split and several expulsions. In 1960 Constant left the group for the same reason he initially objected to joining. By 1961 no one remained of the original artistic core or tendency except Debord himself. though members more allied to the SI's political tendency remained.\n\nBack in Amsterdam after his stay in London, Nieuwenhuys started to focus mainly on architecture and the urban environment. The focal point of his work was finding out what potential added value art can provide in intensifying daily life, in which there is room for creative expression. He abandoned painting to work solely on his New Babylon project from 1956 to 1974.\n\nWith New Babylon Nieuwenhuys envisioned a \"world wide city for the future\" where land is owned collectively, work is fully automated and the need to work replaced with a nomadic life of creative play. New Babylon is inhabited by \"homo ludens\", who, freed from labor, will not have to make art, for he can be creative in the daily practice of his life.\n\nIn Nieuwenhuys' own words:\nThe project of New Babylon only intends to give the minimum conditions for a behaviour that must remain as free as possible. Any restriction of the freedom of movement, any limitation with regard to the creation of mood and atmosphere, has to be avoided. Everything has to remain possible, all is to happen, the environment has to be created by the activity of life, and not inversely.\n\nThe New Babylon project consisted of a series of models, constructions, maquettes, collages, drawings, graphics and texts expressing Constant's theories of urban development and social interaction. A few examples of spatial constructions for which he used modern materials like stainless steel, aluminum and perspex are \"Het Ruimtecircus\" (1956) (Spatial Circus) and \"Het Zonneschip\" (1956) (Sunvessel).\n\nIn 1974 the New Babylon project officially came to an end with a large exhibition in the Gemeentemuseum Den Haag. Because he lacked room to store the vast collection of constructions, maquettes, maps and structures he sold them all to the museum. In 1999 \"Constant's New Babylon: City for Another Life\", opened at the Drawing Center in New York. It was his first solo exhibition in the United States and was curated by Mark Wigley. There was a symposium conducted in conjunction with the exhibition.\n\nAccording to the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas, Nieuwenhuys has made a lot of architects think with his New Babylon: \"He was an example of courage\".\n\nConstant returned to painting, watercoloring and graphics in 1969. Until the mid-1970s, the subjects of his imaginary world New Babylon still crowded his work. However, more and more, he was inspired by contemporary and political issues, including such things as the Vietnam War, African famine and Kosovo refugees. Marxism was a strong influence. Rudi Fuchs said in his foreword to the Catalogue of Constant Paintings in 1995: \"there are people who consider Constant's later work as a return to tradition. I, however, do not share this opinion. Because I consider his later development from the 1970s as greater penetration into the garden of painting.\"\n\nIn the tradition of the Venetian Renaissance painters, Titian and Tintoretto, Constant applied himself to the technique of colorism. Following this technique the artist doesn't make use of charcoal or pencil sketches but applies colour directly on the canvas with the paintbrush, constructing soft transitions instead of sharp contours. The most important feature of this technique is the way light is expressed in the painting by integrating it into the colour. This technique is laborious. The painting comes to life layer by layer. Constant painted with oil on canvas and every layer he applied then needed to dry. In this period Constant produced a mere three to four paintings per year.\n\nIn 1949 Constant decorated a garden wall in Tibirkelunde, Sjelland, Denmark.\n\nIn 1963 \"The Gate of Constant\" was placed at the entry of a sports park in the west side of Amsterdam. Constant designed the forty-foot-high concrete structure as a commission for the Municipality of Amsterdam. For almost three decades the structure adorned the entry in anonymity until Rita Doets, a former employee of the municipality, left money in her legacy to construct an information sign next to the gate. Constant's widow, Trudy Nieuwenhuijs, was present at the inauguration.\n\nIn 1966 Constant designed a fountain for the Kooiplein in Leiden. For years the structure didn't function and slowly withered. When the square was redesigned in 1999, the fountain was repaired. New equipment made sure that the shoppers were not bothered by the water.\n\nConstant died on 1 August 2005 and was survived by his son and his three daughters, and by his widow and her daughter.\n\n\"Gyromorphosis (1958), 7 min\" - In Gyromorphosis, film maker Hy Hirsh strives to display the kinetic qualities of the New Babylon structures of Constant Nieuwenhuys. One by one he puts parts of the structures in motion and films the details with colored lighting having them overlap each other, appear and disappear. He creates a sensation of acceleration and suspense suggested by the work itself.\n\n\"Accompanying Simon Vinkenoog to Constant's New Babylon (1962), 15 min\" - Lies Westenburg visits Constant at his studio with writer Simon Vinkenoog. Simon Vinkenoog and Constant discuss the ideas behind the New Babylon project.\n\n\"Constant oder der Weg nach New Babylon (1968), 55 min\" - For ten years Constant worked on his \"New Babylon\" project as a reaction to the architectural and social reality. Film maker Carlheinz Caspari follows Constant and his visions.\n\n\"Cobra, a revolt against order (1986), 50 min\" - Documentary by Jan Vrijman about the meaning and influence of the COBRA group, then and now.\n\n\"Constant, Avant le Départ (2005), 82 min\" - Constant died in the summer of 2005. Thomas Doebele and Maarten Schmidt filmed the artist during the last months of his life. They followed him and his dog, Tikus, on their daily stroll to the artist's studio, where he finished his last painting \"Le Piège\".\n\n\"New Babylon de Constant (2005), 13 min\" - New Babylon visually captured by Constant's son Victor Nieuwenhuijs and Maartje Seyfert.\n\nThis is an incomplete list of Constant's exhibitions over the years:\n\nConstant's artworks can be found in the following public collections.\n\nDutch museums\n\nEuropean museums\n\nMuseums outside Europe\n\nThis is a list of awards granted to Constant.\n\nThis list does not include Constant's own writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "48578373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48578373", "title": "Dairy salt", "text": "Dairy salt\n\nDairy salt is a salt product used in the preparation of butter and cheese products that serves to add flavor and act as a food preservative. Dairy salt can vary in terms of quality and purity, with purer varieties being the most desirable for use in foods. Dairy salt has been used since at least the 1890s in England and the United States. In butter preparation, it serves to retain moisture, while in cheeses, it tends to reduce water content and slow the ripening process.\n\nQuality dairy salts have been described as having favorable solubility properties for use in butter and cheese, and the softness and form of the salt crystals is one of the determining factors of overall quality. The purity of dairy salt is defined by the amount of sodium chloride present in the product, and those with at least 98% sodium chloride have been described as being of sound purity. Highly pure dairy salt has a pure white coloration, a uniformity in grain, and lacks any offensive odors or bitter flavor. Dairy salt products of lower purity may have a bitter flavor and poor solubility. The use of impure dairy salt can have adverse effects upon butter, spoiling its flavor, grain, and preservation. Impure dairy salt can make cheeses bitter, reducing their value. Impurities that may occur in dairy salt include calcium sulphate, calcium chloride, magnesium chloride, and to a lesser extent, sodium sulphate and magnesium sulphate.\n\nIn the 1890s, many brands of dairy salt were available. In England during this time, the Ashton and Higgins Eureka Salt brands were available (among others), and were used in the United States. U.S. brands of dairy salt in the 1890s included Diamond Crystal Salt and Genesee Salt, among others. Almost all of these brands were very pure, being 98–99% sodium chloride.\n\nIn 1899, it was estimated that around 82 million pounds of salt were used in the United States specifically for dairy purposes. At that time, this amount of salt was valued at US $800,000.\n\nIn 1914, it was written that American and Danish authorities were in agreement that large-sized, flat flake salt is the best type of dairy salt for use in butter products. During this time, almost all dairy salt was prepared using the process of evaporation. Some techniques included leaving brine in the sun to evaporate, or heating it with fire underneath iron pans, with the salt crystals remaining after the liquid evaporated. Additional methods included the Michigan grainer process and the vacuum pan process. \n\nIn the 1920s, calcium sulphate was one of the most common impurities in dairy salt. During this time, the United States Department of Agriculture's had a 1.4% maximum allowance for calcium sulphate in dairy salt and table salt.\n\nDairy salt serves to retain moisture and increase the weight of butter products, adds flavor and serves as a preservative and antimicrobial, which can prevent bacterial contamination. Dairy salt used in butter preparation is sometimes referred to as butter salt and buttersalt.\n\nDairy salt has been used in the preparation of cheeses. Its use can add flavor to cheeses, and it tends to reduce the water content in cheeses, which can influence the ripening process. The use of impure dairy salt can make cheeses bitter in flavor, reducing their value. The use of too much salt in cheese can adversely affect its flavor, resulting in a product with a mealy and dry texture that is slow to ripen. \n\nDairy salt is used in Cheddar cheese, and serves to add flavor and reduce moisture. The reduction of moisture inhibits fermentation and slows the ripening process, which can produce a higher-quality cheese in terms of flavor and consistency. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2605930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2605930", "title": "Data drilling", "text": "Data drilling\n\nData drilling (also drilldown) refers to any of various operations and transformations on tabular, relational, and multidimensional data. The term has widespread use in various contexts, but is primarily associated with specialized software designed specifically for data analysis.\n\nThere are certain operations that are common to applications that allow data drilling. Among them are:\n\nQuery operations:\n\nTabular query operations consist of standard operations on data tables. \n\nAmong these operations are:\n\nConsider the following example:\n\nFred and Wilma table (Fig 001):\n\nThe preceding is an example of a simple flat file table formatted as comma-separated values. The table includes first name, last name, gender and home country for various people named fred or wilma. Although the example is formatted this way, it is important to emphasize that tabular query operations (as well as all data drilling operations) can be applied to any conceivable data type, regardless of the underlying formatting. The only requirement is that the data be readable by the software application in use.\n\nA pivot query allows multiple representations of data according to different dimensions. This query type is similar to tabular query, except it also allows data to be represented in summary format, according to a flexible user-selected hierarchy. This class of data drilling operation is formally (and loosely) known by different names, including crosstab query, pivot table, data pilot, selective hierarchy, intertwingularity and others.\n\nTo illustrate the basics of pivot query operations, consider the Fred and Wilma table (Fig 001). A quick scan of the data reveals that the table has redundant information. This redundancy could be consolidated using an outline or a tree structure or in some other way. Moreover, once consolidated, the data could have many different alternate layouts. \n\nUsing a simple text outline as output, the following alternate layouts are all possible with a pivot query:\n\nSummarize by gender (Fig 001):\n\nSummarize by home, lname (Fig 001):\n\nPivot query operations are useful for summarizing a corpus of data in multiple ways, thereby illustrating different representations of the same basic information. Although this type of operation appears prominently in spreadsheets and desktop database software, its flexibility is arguably under-utilized. There are many applications that allow only a 'fixed' hierarchy for representing data, and this represents a substantial limitation.\n"}
{"id": "342731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342731", "title": "Death spiral financing", "text": "Death spiral financing\n\nDeath spiral financing is a process in which convertible financing used to fund primarily small cap companies can be used against it in the marketplace to cause the company’s stock to fall dramatically, which can lead to the company’s ultimate downfall. \n\nMany small companies rely on selling convertible debt to large private investors (see private investment in public equity) to fund their operations and growth. This convertible debt, often convertible preferred stock or convertible debentures, can be converted to the common stock of the issuing company often at steep discounts to the market value of the common stock. Under the typical “death spiral” scenario, the holder of the convertible debt initially shorts the issuer’s common stock, which often causes the stock price to decline, at which time the debt holder converts some of the convertible debt to common shares with which he then covers the debt holder's short position. The debt holder continues to sell short and cover with converted stock, which, along with selling by other shareholders alarmed by the falling price, continually weakens the share price, making the shares unattractive to new investors and possibly severely limiting the company’s ability to obtain new financing if necessary.\n\nAn important characteristic of this kind of convertible debt is that it often carries conditions like a quarterly or semiannual reset of the conversion price to keep the conversion price more or less close to the actual stock price. However, a lower conversion price also increases the number of shares that a bond holder gets in exchange for one bond, which increases the dilution of existing shareholders. A lower price reset can also force investors that have set up a long CB/short stock position to sell more stock (\"adjust the delta\"), creating a vicious circle, hence the nickname death spiral. \n\nCompanies willing to agree to financing on these terms are often desperate and could not obtain funding through any other means. The terms, though viewed by some as onerous, give the lender a potential way to recover their debt regardless of what happens to the shares of the company. The lender would have a potentially greater gain if the shares were to increase in value, but if they decrease in value, there is some protection. Otherwise, they would probably not be willing to lend the money because of the poor risk profiles of the companies interested in this type of financing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31713564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31713564", "title": "Economy Directorates", "text": "Economy Directorates\n\nThe Scottish Government Economy Directorates are a group of civil service Directorates in the Scottish Government. They were rebranded as the Economy Directorates in July 2016, having previously been reorganised in December 2010 and then in June 2014.\n\nThe individual Directorates within the DG (Director-General) Economy family (the Economy Directorates) report to the Director-General, Liz Ditchburn.\n\nThere is no direct relationship between Ministers and the Directorates. However, the activities of the Directorates include those under the purview of the Cabinet Secretary for Environment, Climate Change and Land Reform, Roseanna Cunningham MSP and the Cabinet Secretary for Rural Economy and Connectivity. The Cabinet Secretary for Economy, Jobs and Fair Work also has responsibility for some of the work of these Directorates. They are supported in their work by the Minister for Transport and the Islands and the Minister for Business, Innovation and Energy.\n\nThe Directorates were previously the Enterprise, Environment and Innovation Directorates, reorganised in July 2016.\n\nThe overarching Scottish Government Directorates were preceded by similar structures called \"Departments\" that no longer exist (although the word is still sometimes erroneously used in this context). As an overarching unit, the Economy Directorates incorporate a number of individual Directorates entitled:\n\n\nThe Directorates are responsible for one agency:\n\nThe Directorates also sponsor several non-departmental public bodies including: \n\nThe Rural Development Council was set up in 2008 to advise the Cabinet Secretary on rural affairs and to \"consider how best rural Scotland can contribute to the creation of a more successful country, through increasing sustainable economic growth\".\n\nPrior to the creation of the Enterprise, Environment and Innovation Directorates in June 2014, the group was known as the Enterprise, Environment and Digital Directorates from December 2010. Prior to 2007, the work had been carried out by the old Scottish Executive Environment and Rural Affairs Department (SEERAD).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364896", "title": "European Court of Auditors", "text": "European Court of Auditors\n\nThe Court of Auditors (European Court of Auditors, ECA) (French: \"Cour des comptes européenne\") is the fifth institution of the European Union (EU). It was established in 1975 in Luxembourg.\n\nThe Court of Auditors was created by the 1975 Budgetary Treaty and was formally established on 18 October 1977, holding its first session a week later. At that time the Court was not a formal institution; it was an external body designed to audit the finances of the European Communities. It replaced two separate audit bodies, one which dealt with the finances of the European Economic Community and Euratom, and one which dealt with the European Coal and Steel Community.\n\nThe Court did not have a defined legal status until the Treaty of Maastricht when it was made the fifth institution, the first new institution since the founding of the Community. By becoming an institution it gained some new powers, such as the ability to bring actions before the European Court of Justice (ECJ). At first its audit power related only to the European Community pillar of the European Union (EU), but under the Treaty of Amsterdam it gained the full power to audit the finances of the whole of the EU.\n\nDespite its name, the Court has no judicial functions. It is rather a professional external investigatory audit agency. The primary role of the court is to externally check if the budget of the European Union has been implemented correctly, in that EU funds have been spent legally and with sound management. In doing so, the court checks the paperwork of all persons handling any income or expenditure of the Union and carries out spot checks. The court is bound to report any problems in the Court's reports for the attention of other states and institutions, these reports include its general annual report as well as specific and special reports on certain bodies and issues. The Court's decision is the basis for the European Commission decisions; for example, when the Court found problems in the management of EU funds in the regions of England, the Commission suspended funds to those regions and prepared to fine those who did not come back up to acceptable standards.\n\nIn this role, the Court has to remain independent yet remain in touch with the other institutions; for example, a key role is the presentation of the Court's annual report to the European Parliament. It is based on this report that the Parliament makes its decision on whether or not to sign off the European Commission's handling of the budget for that year. The Parliament notably refused to do this in 1984 and 1999, the latter case forced the resignation of the Santer Commission. The Court, if satisfied, also sends assurances to the Council and Parliament that the taxpayers' money is being properly used, and the Court must be consulted before the adoption of any legislation with financial implications, but its opinion is never binding.\n\nThe Court is composed of one member from each EU state, each of whom is—after a hearing in the Budgetary Control Committee and a non-binding majority-vote in the committee as well as in the plenary of the European Parliament—appointed unanimously by the Council of the European Union for a renewable term of six years. They are not all replaced every six years, however, as their terms do not coincide (four of the original members began with reduced terms of four years for this reason). Members are chosen from people who have served in national audit bodies, who are qualified for the office and whose independence is beyond doubt. While serving in the Court, members cannot engage in any other professional activities. As the body is independent, its members are free to decide their own organisation and rules of procedure, although these must be ratified by the Council of the European Union. Since the Treaty of Nice, the Court can set up \"chambers\" (with only a few Members each) to adopt certain types of reports or opinions.\n\nThe Court is supported by a staff of approximately 800 auditors, translators and administrators recruited as part of the European Civil Service. Auditors are divided into auditor groups which inspect and prepare draft reports for the Court to take decisions upon. Inspections take place not only of EU institutions but of any state which receives EU funds, given that 90% of income and expenditure is managed by national authorities rather than the EU. Upon finding a fault, the Court—possessing no legal powers of its own—informs the European Anti-fraud Office (\"OLAF\"), which is the EU's anti-fraud agency. The Court is also assisted by the Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, elected by the Court, who—along with general management and assistance to the President—draws up draft minutes and keeps archives of decisions, as well as ensuring the publication of reports in the \"Official Journal of the European Union\".\n\nThe members then elect one of their number as the President of the Court for a renewable three-year term. The election takes place by a secret ballot of those members who applied for the presidency. The duties of the President (which may be delegated) are to convene and chair the meetings of the Court, ensuring that decisions are implemented and the departments (and other activities) are soundly managed. The president also represents the court and appoints a representative for it in contentious proceedings.\n\nThe current President is Klaus-Heiner Lehne, elected on 13 September 2016. He succeeded Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira (of Portugal), elected in 2007. Previous presidents have been Sir Norman Price (1977, United Kingdom), Michael Murphy (1977, Ireland), Pierre Lelong (1981, France), Marcel Mart (1984, Luxembourg), Aldo Angioi (1990, Italy), André Middelhoek (1992, Netherlands), Bernhard Friedmann (1996, Germany), Jan O. Karlsson (1999, Sweden), Juan Manuel Fabra Vallés † (2002, Spain) and Hubert Weber (2006, Austria).\n\nThe Secretary-General is the European Court of Auditors most senior member of staff. Appointed for a renewable term of 6 years, he is responsible for the management of the Court's staff and for the administration of the Court. In addition, the Secretary-General is responsible for the budget, translation, training and information technology.\n\n\nSince 1994 the Court has been required to provide a \"Declaration of Assurance\", essentially a certificate that an entire annual budget can be accounted for. This has proved to be a problem, as even relatively minor omissions require the Court to refuse a declaration of assurance for the entire budget, even if almost all of the budget is considered reliable.\n\nThis has led to media reports of the EU accounts being \"riddled with fraud\", where issues are based on errors in paperwork even though the underlying spending was legal. The auditing system itself has drawn criticism from this perception. The Commission in particular has stated that the bar is too high, and that only 0.09% of the budget is subject to fraud. The Commission has elsewhere stated that it is important to distinguish between fraud and other irregularities. The controversial dismissal in 2003 of Marta Andreasen for her criticism of procedures in 2002 has, for some, called into doubt the integrity of the institutions.\n\nIt is frequently claimed that annual accounts have not been certified by the external auditor since 1994. In its annual report on the implementation of the 2009 EU Budget, the Court of Auditors found that the two biggest areas of the EU budget, agriculture and regional spending, have not been signed off on and remain \"materially affected by error\".\n\nTerry Wynn, an MEP who served on the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and reached the position of chairman, has also backed these calls, stating that it is impossible for the Commission to achieve these standards. In a report entitled \"EU Budget – Public Perception & Fact – how much does it cost, where does the money go and why is it criticised so much?\", Wynn cites consensus that practice in the EU differs from that in the USA. In the USA, the focus is on the financial information, not on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, 'So, other than in Europe, the political reaction in the US to the failure to obtain a clean audit opinion is only \"a big yawn\"'.\n\nBy comparison, the Comptroller and Auditor General for the United Kingdom stated that there were 500 separate accounts for the UK, and \"in the last year, I qualified 13 of the 500. If I had to operate the EU system, then, because I qualify 13 accounts, I might have to qualify the whole British central government expenditure\". Despite the problems, the Barroso Commission stated that it aimed to bring the budget within the Court's limits by the end of its mandate in 2009.\n\nThe ECA made clear in its year report for 2010 that \"Responsibility for the legality and regularity of spending on Cohesion Policies starts in the Member States, but the Commission bears the ultimate responsibility for the correct implementation of the budget\". In previous reports, the ECA has noted that \"Regardless of the method of implementation applied, the Commission bears the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the European Communities (Article 274 of the Treaty)\".\n\nThe size of the court has also come under criticism. Owing to the one-member-per-state system, its members grew from nine to twenty-seven as of 2007. Attempting to get consensus in the body has thus become more difficult; this led to the number of its special reports per year shrinking from fifteen to six between 2003 and 2005, despite its staff growing by 200 over the same period. Some proposals have been for its size to be reduced to five members or just one, possibly with an advisory board with members from each member state. However, neither the European Constitution nor the Treaty of Lisbon proposed any changes to its composition, despite calls by former court members and MEPs to embrace change. The court offer approximately 50 traineeships a year, successful applicants come mainly from financial, economic, accounting and legal backgrounds. The ECA traineeship program receives thousands of applications across Europe every year for the February and May intakes, with an extremely competitive selection process.\n\n"}
{"id": "55578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55578", "title": "Full employment", "text": "Full employment\n\nFull employment means that everyone who wants a job can have work hours they need on \"fair wages\". Because people switch jobs, full employment means a stable rate of unemployment around 1 to 2 per cent of the total workforce, but does not allow for underemployment where part-time workers cannot find hours they need for a decent living. In macroeconomics, full employment is sometimes defined as the level of employment at which there is no cyclical or deficient-demand unemployment. \n\nSome economists reject that full employment and see inflation as being a likely consequence of its enforcement, i.e. to prevent inflation from accelerating. This view is based on a theory centered on the concept of the Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment (NAIRU), and those who hold it usually mean NAIRU when speaking of full employment. The NAIRU has also been described by Milton Friedman, among others, as the \"natural\" rate of unemployment. Having many names, it has also been called the structural unemployment rate.\n\nFor the United States, economist William T. Dickens found that full-employment unemployment rate varied a lot over time but equaled about 5.5 percent of the civilian labor force during the 2000s. Recently, economists have emphasized the idea that full employment represents a \"range\" of possible unemployment rates. For example, in 1999, in the United States, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) gives an estimate of the \"full-employment unemployment rate\" of 4 to 6.4%. This is the estimated unemployment rate at full employment, plus & minus the standard error of the estimate.\n\nThe concept of full employment of labor corresponds to the concept of potential output or potential real GDP and the long run aggregate supply (LRAS) curve. In neoclassical macroeconomics, the highest sustainable level of aggregate real GDP or \"potential\" is seen as corresponding to a vertical LRAS curve: any increase in the demand for real GDP can only lead to rising prices in the long run, while any increase in output is temporary.\n\nWhat most neoclassical economists mean by \"full\" employment is a rate somewhat less than 100% employment. Others, such as the late James Tobin, have been accused of disagreeing, considering full employment as 0% unemployment. However, this was not Tobin's perspective in his later work.\n\nSome see John Maynard Keynes as attacking the existence of rates of unemployment substantially above 0%:\n\nMost readers would interpret this statement as referring to only cyclical, deficient-demand, or \"involuntary\" unemployment (discussed below) but not to unemployment existing as \"full employment\" (mismatch and frictional unemployment). This is because, writing in 1929, Keynes was discussing a period in which the unemployment rate had been persistently above most conceptions of what corresponds to full employment. That is, a situation where a tenth of the population (and thus a larger percentage of the labor force) is unemployed involves a disaster.\n\nOne major difference between Keynes and the Classical economists was that while the latter saw \"full employment\" as the normal state of affairs with a free-market economy (except for short periods of adjustment), Keynes saw the possibility of persistent aggregate-demand failure causing unemployment rates to exceed those corresponding to full employment. Put differently, while Classical economists saw all unemployment as \"voluntary\", Keynes saw the possibility that involuntary unemployment can exist when the demand for final products is low compared to potential output.\nThis can be seen in his later and more serious work. In his \"General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money\", chapter 2, he used a definition that should be familiar to modern macroeconomics:\nThe only difference from the usual definitions is that, as discussed below, most economists would add skill/location mismatch or structural unemployment as existing at full employment. More theoretically, Keynes had two main definitions of full employment, which he saw as equivalent. His first main definition of full employment involves the absence of \"involuntary\" unemployment:\n\nPut another way, the full employment and the absence of involuntary unemployment correspond to the case where the real wage equals the marginal cost to workers of supplying labor for hire on the market (the \"marginal disutility of employment\"). That is, the real wage rate and the amount of employment correspond to a point on the aggregate supply curve of labor that is assumed to exist. In contrast, a situation with less than full employment and thus involuntary unemployment would have the real wage above the supply price of labor. That is, the employment situation corresponds to a point above and to the left of the aggregate supply curve of labor: the real wage would be above the point on the aggregate supply curve of labor at the current level of employment; alternatively, the level of employment would be below the point on that supply curve at the current real wage.\n\nSecond, in chapter 3, Keynes saw full employment as a situation where \"a further increase in the value of the effective demand will no longer be accompanied by any increase in output.\"\n\nThis means that at and above full employment, any increase in aggregate demand and employment corresponds primarily to increases in prices rather than output. Thus, full employment of labor corresponds to potential output.\n\nWhilst full employment is often an aim for an economy, most economists see it as more beneficial to have some level of unemployment, especially of the frictional sort. In theory, this keeps the labor market flexible, allowing room for new innovations and investment. As in the NAIRU theory, the existence of some unemployment is required to avoid accelerating inflation.\n\nFor the United Kingdom, the OECD estimated the NAIRU (or structural unemployment) rate as being equal to 8.5% on average between 1988 and 1997, 5.9% between 1998 and 2007, 6.2%, 6.6%, and 6.7 in 2008, 2009, and 2010, then staying at 6.9% in 2011-2013. For the United States, they estimate it as being 5.8% on average between 1988 and 1997, 5.5% between 1998 and 2007, 5.8% in 2008, 6.0% in 2009, and then staying at 6.1% from 2010 to 2013. They also estimate the NAIRU for other countries. These calculations have been criticised as lacking any foundation in evidence. \n\nThe era after the 2007-2009 Great Recession shows the relevance of this concept, for example as seen in the United States. On the one hand, in 2013 Keynesian economists such as Paul Krugman of Princeton University see unemployment rates as too high relative to full employment and the NAIRU and thus favor increasing the aggregate demand for goods and services and thus labor in order to reduce unemployment. On the other hand, pointing to shortages of some skilled workers, some businesspeople and Classical economists suggest that the U.S. economy is already at full employment, so that any demand stimulus will lead to nothing but rising inflation rates. One example was Narayana Kocherlakota, President of the Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank, who has since changed his mind.\n\nAn alternative, more normative, definition (used by some labor economists) would see \"full employment\" as the attainment of the \"ideal\" unemployment rate, where the types of unemployment that reflect labor-market inefficiency (such as mismatch or structural unemployment) do not exist. That is, only some \"frictional\" or voluntary unemployment would exist, where workers are temporarily searching for new jobs and are thus voluntarily unemployed. This type of unemployment involves workers \"shopping\" for the best jobs at the same time that employers \"shop\" for the best possible employees to serve their needs. Its existence can allow the best possible correspondence between workers and jobs from the points of view of both employees and employers and thus promotes the economy's efficiency.\n\nWilliam Beveridge defined \"full employment\" as where the number of unemployed workers equaled the number of job vacancies available (while preferring that the economy be kept above that full employment level in order to allow maximum economic production). But the point is that this definition allows for \"some\" unemployment. To see this, assume that frictional and mismatch unemployment can be separated. At Beveridge full employment, in the case of \"frictional\" unemployment the number of job-seekers corresponds to an equal number of job openings: as discussed above, the unemployed are \"shopping\" for the best possible jobs (as long as the cost of job-search is less than the expected benefit) at the same time that employers are \"shopping\" for the best possible employees to fill the vacancies. Similarly,at Beveridge full employment, the number of people suffering from mismatch or structural unemployment equals the number of vacancies. The problem here is that the skills and geographical locations of the unemployed workers does not correspond to the skill requirements and locations of the vacancies. In theory, Beveridge's concept full employment corresponds to that of Keynes (discussed above).\n\nThe situation with less than full employment in Beveridge's sense results either from \"Classical\" unemployment or \"neoclassical\" unemployment or from Keynesian deficient-demand unemployment. In terms of supply and demand, Classical or neoclassical unemployment results from the actual real wage exceeding the equilibrium real wage, so that the quantity of labor demanded (and the number of vacancies) is less than the quantity of labor supplied (and the number of unemployed workers). In the \"Classical\" theory, the problem is that real wages are rigid, i.e., do not fall due to an excess supply of labor. In theory, this might happen because of minimum wage laws and other interference with \"free markets\" that prevent the attainment of market perfection. Classical economists favor making labor markets more like the ideal competitive market—and so making real wages more flexible—in order to deal with this kind of unemployment.\n\nThe neoclassical theory, in contrast, follows John Maynard Keynes and more importantly, Milton Friedman to blame inflexible \"money\" or \"nominal\" wages for low employment relative to full employment. If the money wage is fixed, the real wage is fixed for any given average price level, so that rigid money wages have the same effect as rigid real wages when the price level is given. In this case, however, real wages can be depressed (and Beveridge full employment restored) if prices rise relative to nominal wages. Alternatively, people could wait for the persistence of high unemployment to eventually cause money wages to fall. This would have the same effect, reducing real wages and increasing the quantity of labor demanded. One of the big debates in macroeconomics is whether it is better to deal with neoclassical unemployment using a small amount of inflation or by waiting for markets to adjust.\n\nIn contrast, Keynesian deficient-demand unemployment (as explained by Don Patinkin) sees a situation with less than full employment (following Beveridge's definition) as possibly prevailing \"even if\" the actual real wage is equal to the equilibrium real wage at full employment. The problem is that the demand for final products is limited by aggregate demand failure. Low demand for products (below potential output) implies that there is a sales constraint on the labor market to the left of equilibrium so that the quantity of labor demanded is below the amount that would be demanded if the aggregate demand for products was sufficient (what Robert Clower called the \"notional\" demand for labor). In terms of neoclassical theory, the prevailing real wage is less than the marginal physical product of labor in this situation. In the absence of the sales constraint, profit-maximizing employers would hire unemployed workers as long as this inequality is true, moving the labor markets toward full employment. However, the sales constraint means that the extra product of these workers \"could not be sold\". Thus, employers would not hire the unemployed until aggregate demand rose, which would shift the sales constraint to the right, allowing more employment of labor. In this situation, Keynesians recommend policies that raise the aggregate demand for final products and thus the aggregate demand for workers.\n\nThe economic literature concerning the Phillips Curve and the NAIRU moved away from the direct examination of labor market to focus instead on the behavior of inflation rates at different unemployment rates. That is, while Beveridge and Keynes saw full-employment unemployment as where the supply of and the demand for labor were in balance, later views saw it as a threshold which should not be crossed, since low unemployment causes serious inflation.\n\nThe theories behind the Phillips curve pointed to the inflationary costs of lowering the unemployment rate. That is, as unemployment rates fell and the economy approached full employment, the inflation rate would rise. But this theory also says that there is no single unemployment number that one can point to as the \"full employment\" rate. Instead, there is a trade-off between unemployment and inflation: a government might choose to attain a lower unemployment rate but would pay for it with higher inflation rates. In essence, in this view, the meaning of “full employment” is really nothing but a matter of opinion based on how the benefits of lowering the unemployment rate compare to the costs of raising the inflation rate.\n\nThough their theory had been proposed by the Keynesian economist Abba Lerner several years before , it was the work of Milton Friedman, leader of the monetarist school of economics, and Edmund Phelps that ended the popularity of this concept of full employment. In 1968, Friedman posited the theory that full employment rate of unemployment was ‘’’unique’’’ at any given time. He called it the \"natural\" rate of unemployment. Instead of being a matter of opinion and normative judgment, it is something we are stuck with, even if it is unknown. As discussed further, below, inflation/unemployment trade-offs cannot be relied upon. Further, rather than trying to attain full employment, Friedman argues that policy-makers should try to keep prices stable (meaning a low or even a zero inflation rate). If this policy is sustained, he suggests that a free-market economy will gravitate to the \"natural\" rate of unemployment automatically.\n\nIn an effort to avoid the normative connotations of the word \"natural,\" James Tobin (following the lead of Franco Modigliani), introduced the term the “Non-Accelerating Inflation Rate of Unemployment” (NAIRU), which corresponds to the situation where the real gross domestic product equals potential output. It has been called the \"inflation threshold\" unemployment rate or the inflation barrier. This concept is identical to Milton Friedman’s concept of the \"natural\" rate but reflects the fact that there is nothing \"natural\" about an economy. The level of the NAIRU depends on the degree of \"supply side\" unemployment, i.e., joblessness that can't be abolished by high demand. This includes frictional, mismatch, and Classical unemployment. When the actual unemployment rate equals the NAIRU, there is no cyclical or deficient-demand unemployment. That is, Keynes’ involuntary unemployment does not exist.\n\nTo understand this concept, start with the actual unemployment equal to the NAIRU. Then, assume that a country’s government and its central bank use demand-side policy to reduce the unemployment rate and then attempt to keep the rate at a specific low level: rising budget deficits or falling interest rates increase aggregate demand and raise employment of labor. Thus, the actual unemployment rate falls, as going from point A to B in the nearby graph. Unemployment then stays below the NAIRU for years or more, as at point B. In this situation, the theory behind the NAIRU posits that inflation will accelerate, i.e. get worse and worse (in the absence of wage and price controls). As the short-run Phillips curve theory indicates, higher inflation rate results from low unemployment. That is, in terms of the \"trade-off\" theory, low unemployment can be \"bought,\" paid for by suffering from higher inflation. But the NAIRU theory says that this is not the whole story, so that the trade-off breaks down: a persistently higher inflation rate is eventually incorporated as higher \"inflationary expectations\". Then, if workers and employers expect higher inflation, it results in higher inflation, as higher money wages are passed on to consumers as higher prices. This causes the short run Phillips curve to shift to the right and upward, worsening the trade-off between inflation and unemployment. At a given unemployment rate, inflation accelerates. But if the unemployment rate rises to equal the NAIRU, we see higher inflation than before the expansionary policies, as at point C in the nearby diagram. The fall of the unemployment rate was temporary because it could not be sustained. In sum, the trade-off between inflation and unemployment cannot be relied upon to be stable: taking advantage of it causes it to disappear. This story fits the experience of the United States during the late 1960s, during which unemployment rates stayed low (below 4% of the civilian labor force) and inflation rates rose significantly.\n\nSecond, examine the other main case. Again start with the unemployment rate equal to the NAIRU. Then, either shrinking government budget deficits (or rising government surpluses) or rising real interest rates encourage higher unemployment. In this situation, the NAIRU theory says that inflation will get better (decelerate) if unemployment rates exceed the NAIRU for a long time. High unemployment leads to lower inflation, which in turn causes lower inflationary expectations and a further round of lower inflation. High unemployment causes the short-run inflation/unemployment trade-off to improve. This story fits the experience of the United States during the early 1980s (Paul Volcker's war against inflation), during which unemployment rates stayed high (at about 10% of the civilian labor force) and inflation rates fell significantly.\n\nFinally, the NAIRU theory says that the inflation rate does not rise or fall when the unemployment equals the \"natural\" rate. This is where the term NAIRU is derived. In macroeconomics, the case where the actual unemployment rate equals the NAIRU is seen as the long-run equilibrium because there are no forces inside the normal workings of the economy that cause the inflation rate to rise or fall. The NAIRU corresponds to the \"long-run Phillips curve\". While the short-run Phillips curve is based on a constant rate of inflationary expectations, the long-run Phillips curve reflects full adjustment of inflationary expectations to the actual experience of inflation in the economy.\n\nAs mentioned above, Abba Lerner had developed a version of the NAIRU before the modern \"natural\" rate or NAIRU theories were developed. Unlike the currently dominant view, Lerner saw a range of \"full employment\" unemployment rates. Crucially, the unemployment rate depended on the economy's institution. Lerner distinguished between \"high\" full employment, which was the lowest sustainable unemployment under incomes policies, and \"low\" full employment, i.e., the lowest sustainable unemployment rate without these policies.\n\nFurther, it is possible that the value of the NAIRU depends on government policy, rather than being \"natural\" and unvarying. A government can attempt to make people \"employable\" by both positive means (e.g. using training courses) and negative means (e.g. cuts in unemployment insurance benefits). These policies do not necessarily create full employment. Instead, the point is to reduces the amount of mismatch unemployment by facilitating the linking of unemployed workers with the available jobs by training them and or subsidizing their moving to the geographic location of the jobs.\n\nIn addition, the hysteresis hypothesis says that the NAIRU does not stay the same over time—and can change due to economic policy. A persistently low unemployment rate makes it easier for those workers who are unemployed for \"mismatch\" reasons to move to where the jobs are and/or to attain the training necessary for the available vacancies (often by getting those jobs and receiving on-the-job training). On the other hand, high unemployment makes it more difficult for those workers to adjust, while hurting their morale, job-seeking skills, and the value of their work skills. Thus, some economists argue that British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's anti-inflation policies using persistently high unemployment led to higher mismatch or structural unemployment and a higher NAIRU.\n\nWhatever the definition of full employment, it is difficult to discover exactly what unemployment rate it corresponds to. In the United States, for example, the economy saw stable inflation \"despite\" low unemployment during the late 1990s, contradicting most economists' estimates of the NAIRU.\n\nThe idea that the full-employment unemployment rate (NAIRU) is not a unique number has been seen in recent empirical research. Staiger, Stock, and Watson found that the range of possible values of the NAIRU (from 4.3 to 7.3% unemployment) was too large to be useful to macroeconomic policy-makers. Robert Eisner suggested that for 1956-95 there was a zone from about 5% to about 10% unemployment between the low-unemployment realm of accelerating inflation and the high-unemployment realm of disinflation. In between, he found that inflation falls with falling unemployment.\n\nThe active pursuit of national full employment through interventionist government policies is associated with Keynesian economics and marked the postwar agenda of many Western nations, until the stagflation of the 1970s.\n\nAustralia was the first country in the world in which full employment in a capitalist society was made official policy by its government. On May 30, 1945, The Australian Labor Party Prime Minister John Curtin and his Employment Minister John Dedman proposed a white paper in the Australian House of Representatives titled \"Full Employment In Australia\", the first time any government apart from totalitarian regimes had unequivocally committed itself to providing work for any person who was willing and able to work. Conditions of full employment lasted in Australia from 1941 to 1975. This had been preceded by the Harvester Judgment (1907), establishing the basic wage (a living wage); while this earlier case was overturned, it remained influential.\n\nThe United States is, as a statutory matter, committed to full employment; the government is empowered to effect this goal. The relevant legislation is the Employment Act (1946), initially the \"Full Employment Act,\" later amended in the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act (1978). The 1946 act was passed in the aftermath of World War II, when it was feared that demobilization would result in a depression, as it had following World War I in the Depression of 1920–21, while the 1978 act was passed following the 1973–75 recession and in the midst of continuing high inflation.\n\nThe law states that full employment is one of four economic goals, in concert with growth in production, price stability, balance of trade, and budget, and that the US shall rely primarily on private enterprise to achieve these goals. Specifically, the Act is committed to an unemployment rate of no more than 3% for persons aged 20 or over, and not more than 4% for persons aged 16 or over (from 1983 onwards), and the Act expressly \"allows\" (but does not \"require\") the government to create a \"reservoir of public employment\" to affect this level of employment. These jobs are required to be in the lower ranges of skill and pay so as to not draw the workforce away from the private sector.\n\nHowever, since the passage of this Act in 1978, the US has, , never achieved this level of employment on the national level, though some states have neared it or met it, nor has such a reservoir of public employment been created.\n\nSome, particularly Post-Keynesian economists have suggested ensuring full employment via a job guarantee program, where those who are unable to find work in the private sector are employed by the government, the stock of thus employed public sector workers fulfilling the same function as the unemployed do in controlling inflation, without the human costs of unemployment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5308448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5308448", "title": "Gemayel family", "text": "Gemayel family\n\nGemayel is the name of a prominent Lebanese Maronite family based in Bikfaya, Lebanon. Transliterated Arabic is Jamail.\n\nProminent members include:\n"}
{"id": "319246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319246", "title": "Government of the 23rd Dáil", "text": "Government of the 23rd Dáil\n\nThe 23rd Dáil was elected at the first general election of 1982 on 18 February 1982 and first met on 9 March when the 18th Government of Ireland was appointed. The 23rd Dáil lasted for 279 days.\n\nThe 18th Government of Ireland (9 March – 14 December 1982) was formed by the Fianna Fáil party.\n"}
{"id": "36034134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36034134", "title": "Haxhi Qamili", "text": "Haxhi Qamili\n\nHaxhi Qamili, born Qamil Zyber Xhameta, (1876 – June 1915) was the leader of the 1914–15 revolt in Albania. He was popularly known by his religious name Haxhi Qamili, though he was also known as \"Baba Qamili\" (\"Father Qamil\").\n\nQamili was a villager from Sharra (in Tirana) and was the Sheikh of a \"tekke\" belonging to the Melami order of dervishes that sought social equality and rejected wealth and luxury.\n\nThe uprising began in mid-May 1914, but had its origins in 1913. The rebellion was mainly uphold by illiterate peasants that fearing to lose the lands they were given during the Ottoman Empire objected the laws of a foreign ruler. The uprising base was in the regions of Shijak, Kavaja and Tirana.\n\nOn 3 June 1914, the rebels, who were led by mufti Musa Qazim Beqari, made their demands known at a gathering in Kavaja, among which was the overthrow of the Western-installed Prince Wied. The Muslim insurgents demanded the reunion of Albania with the Ottoman state or at least to be ruled by an Ottoman ruler, the reinstatement of the Shariah, the removal of the Albanian flag and its replacement with the Ottoman flag. \n\nThe revolt gained moderate success in central Albania, being able to seize Lushnjë and on 1 September Vlorë. Two days later, Prince Wied in Durrës was forced to abandon his six-month kingdom and the Muslim rebels legislated the re-union of Albania with the Ottoman state. \n\nWith Weid removed, Essad Pasha, who had the support of Italy, returned from exile in October 1914.\n\nHaxhi Qamili's inspiration was Musa Qazimi, a local mufti who supported the Young Turks' policies. Qamili referred to Christians, who Haxhi Qamili referred to as \"kaurrët\" (i.e. \"heathens\", a very pejorative slur when applied by Muslims to Christians) and \"bad people... who even God doesn't love\". During his pro-Ottoman revolt, Christians were slaughtered and tortured. The movement also attacked Albanian nationalist teachers who had been teaching using the Latin alphabet. \n\nThe motto of the rebels was \"Duam, duam Babën-- Turqinë!\" (We want, we want our father -- Turkey) and they raised the flag of the Ottoman Empire and restored Ottoman Turkish as the national language.\n\nHaxhi Qamili and his movement were opposed by many Albanian Muslims. In the Elbasan region in particular, local Muslim community leaders and other Muslim notables denounced the movement as \"archaic\" and \"fanatical\" with many opposing it with arms. Elbasanlli clerics also supported the Latin alphabet, opposing Haxhi Qamili's view and also the views of more conservative Sunni clerics elsewhere. Rebels killed several Muslim clerics who were involved in Albanian nationalist cycles.\n\nEssad Pasha Toptani, a supporter of the feudal lords, took power with Serbian support. Qamili became one of the leaders of the renewed rebellion and was elected by the Islamic rebels as their commander-in-chief. by the end of November 1914, the rebels had regained the upper hand in Tirana and burnt Essad Pasha’s palace to the ground. The rebellion achieved rapid successes, confining Essad's government of central Albania to Durrës itself.\n\nWith the start of the First World War, Albania was invaded by Greek, Italian and Serbian forces, which changed the situation of the uprising entirely. In January 1915 Qamili along with other rebel leaders convened a National Congress in Tirana, declaring on behalf of the whole Albanian people the illegitimacy of Essad's Durrës-based government while affirming Albanian neutrality in World War I. In May 1915 Qamili was elected leader of the rebels.\n\nIn an effort to aid Essad's government and to further its own territorial aims, the Kingdom of Serbia launched an invasion of central Albania on June 2, 1915 but was promptly met by resistance led by Qamili at Qukës where, however, the rebels' outnumbered and outgunned forces were defeated by the Serbs. Through this intervention the \"rebellion, with [its] vague, unsettled political objectives, which did, nevertheless, have both a popular and a social basis\" was suppressed. The Serbian forces arrested Qamili and other rebel leaders and sent them as prisoners to Durrës, where they were tried in a court presided over by Xhelal Bey Zogu and sentenced to be hanged.\n\nEnver Hoxha believed that the peasant movement under Qamili's direction was primarily one of the rural poor, which relied upon traditional forms of government such as village councils to organize and direct a struggle against feudal interests. Qamili preached that all property in excess of personal needs should be given to the impoverished, quoting the Quran and also expressing the sentiment of the Melami sect, which was against the concept of private property. Works published during the communist period stated that the peasant rebels under Qamili's command confiscated the estates of the large landowners, set fire to houses of the \"beys\", and provided support for the poor, infirm and orphans. Hoxha summed up Qamili's movement as being \"against the feudal lords, pashas, beys and aghas, landowners and privileges in general.\"\n\nModern historiography has criticized this portrayal of Haxhi Qamili and his movement by works published under the communist regime, lambasting them as \"Albanian historiography which tried to prove Hoxha's truths instead of searching for the truth\". Disputing the communist line that the movement was egalitarian, progressive and \"anti-feudal\", Kolasi and Rrapaj maintain that the revolt was a \"reactionary Muslim uprising\" motivated by the \"fear of peasants that their lands would be taken by the new government\" (during the early period of Albanian independence, a controversial issue was land reform and redistribution to address the situation of disparity whereby Christians had much less land than Muslims due to legalized discrimination in the time of the Ottoman Empire). Kolasi and Rrapaj also note the desire of peasants for a return to Ottoman rule, the replacement of Albanian with Ottoman Turkish as the official language, and the raising of the Ottoman flag. Lulzim Hoxha meanwhile argues that the movement shows the \"worship towards the central authorities as a patrimonial figure\" and the perceived \"necessity of a central paternal authority\" under a \"Sultanistic\" political culture that he views as inherited from Ottoman rule but continued and sharpened under Enver Hoxha's communist regime noting that the movement used as a slogan \"dum Baben\" (we want our Father). He analyzes the slaughters of Christians involved as an attempt to \"fill up the ideological place prepared and cultivated during the Ottoman dominion with humiliating acts for the Christians\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52754686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52754686", "title": "Honduran Social Security Institute", "text": "Honduran Social Security Institute\n\nThe Honduran Social Security Institute (Instituto Hondureño de Seguro Social or IHSS in Spanish) is a Honduran program that provides pensions and healthcare coverage. It was inaugurated in 1959 when the \"Social Security Law of Honduras\" was approved during the constitutional presidency of Ramón Villeda Morales. Honduran Institute assistance centers were created and formal operations began on March 1, 1962.\n\nDuring the administration of Porfirio Lobo, Mario Zelaya was appointed as director of the Honduran Institute of Social Security. Mario Zelaya, took advantage of his position and the finances he handled to allegedly embezzle the institution of 325 million Lempiras (US $ 13.8 million dollars) using a network of front men, including the former deputy minister of health, Javier Pastor and the former deputy minister of labor, Carlos Montes. An alleged result of this fraud was the unnecessary death of almost 3,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "22330519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22330519", "title": "Ibrahim Index of African Governance", "text": "Ibrahim Index of African Governance\n\nThe Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG), established in 2007, provides an annual assessment of the quality of governance in African countries. Compiled by combining over 100 variables from more than 30 independent African and global institutions, the IIAG is the most comprehensive collection of data on African governance.\n\nThe IIAG provides a framework for citizens, governments, institutions and the private sector to accurately assess the delivery of public goods and services, and policy outcomes, across the continent. As well as being a tool to help determine and debate government performance, the IIAG is a decision-making instrument with which to govern.\n\nThe Foundation defines governance as the provision of the political, social and economic goods that a citizen has the right to expect from his or her state, and that a state has the responsibility to deliver to its citizens. The IIAG assesses progress under four main conceptual categories: \"Safety & Rule of Law, Participation & Human Rights, Sustainable Economic Opportunity, and Human Development\". These four pillars are populated with data that cover governance elements ranging from infrastructure to freedom of expression and sanitation to property rights.\n\nThe IIAG allows users to benchmark governance performance across a number of dimensions at the national, regional and continental levels. Scores and ranks are available for all years from 2000, enabling the analysis of trends over time. All of the underlying data used in the construction of the IIAG are freely available and transparently published alongside a comprehensive methodology.\n\nThe Ibrahim Index of African Governance is a key initiative of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation. It has been published annually since 2007, with launch events in various African cities, including Accra, Cairo, Dakar, Johannesburg and Nairobi. The most recent iteration of the Index, the 2015 IIAG was published in October 2015.\n\nThe index was initially produced in association with Harvard University; academic and technical assistance has subsequently been provided by a range of African academics and research bodies.\n\nThe Ibrahim Index has been used by civil society and government bodies across the continent to monitor governance. One example is in South Africa, where the party in opposition, the Democratic Alliance, used the Ibrahim Index to challenge the government's record on safety and security.\n\nThe Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG) is an annually published composite index that provides a statistical measure of governance performance in African countries.\n\nGovernance is defined by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation as the provision of the political, social and economic public goods and services that a citizen has the right to expect from his or her state, and that a state has the responsibility to deliver to its citizens. This definition is focused on outputs and outcomes of policy. The IIAG governance framework comprises four dimensions (categories):\n\n\nThese categories are made up of 14 sub-categories, consisting of over 100 indicators. The latest IIAG is calculated using data from more than 30 independent sources.\nAnnual refinements are made to the IIAG, which may be methodological, or based on the inclusion or exclusion of indicators. The entire IIAG data set is therefore retrospectively revised, in accordance with best practices. Comparisons between years should therefore be performed entirely on the 2013 IIAG data set.\n\nThe latest IIAG comprises over 100 indicators, grouped into four broad categories: Safety & Rule of Law, Participation and Human Rights, Sustainable Economic Opportunity and Human Development.\n\nThe 23 indicators in the Safety & Rule of Law category are divided into four sub-categories: Rule of Law, Accountability, Personal Safety and National Security. Scores in this category range from 4.9 for Somalia to 88.9 for Botswana in 2013.\n\nThe Rule of Law sub-category includes five indicators measuring Judicial Process, Judicial Independence, Sanctions, Transfers of Power and Property Rights.\nThe Accountability sub-category includes seven indicators measuring Accountability, Transparency & Corruption in the Public Sector, Accountability, Transparency & Corruption in the Rural Sector, Corruption and Bureaucracy, Accountability of Public Officials, Corruption in Government & Public Officials, Prosecution of Abuse of Office and Diversion of Public Funds.\nThe Personal Safety sub-category includes six indicators measuring Domestic Political Persecution, Social Unrest, Safety of the Person, Reliability of Police Services, Violent Crime and Human Trafficking.\n\nThe National Security sub-category includes five indicators measuring Cross Border Tensions, Government Involvement in Armed Conflict, Domestic Armed Conflict, Political Refugees and Internally Displaced People.\n\nThe 19 indicators in the Participation and Human Rights category are divided into three sub-categories: Participation, Rights, and Gender. Scores in this category range from 11.5 for Somalia to 81.7 for Cape Verde in 2013.\n\nThe Participation sub-category includes five indicators measuring Free and Fair Executive Elections, Free and Fair Elections, Political Participation, Electoral Self Determination and Effective Power to Govern.\n\nThe Rights sub-category includes seven indicators measuring Core International Human Rights Conventions, Human Rights, Political Rights, Workers' Rights, Freedom of Expression, Freedom of Association and Assembly and Civil Liberties.\n\nThe Gender sub-category includes seven indicators measuring Gender Equality, Gender Balance in Primary and Secondary Education, Women's Participation in the Labour Force, Equal Representation in Rural Areas, Women in Parliament, Women's Rights and Legislation on Violence against Women.\n\nThe 30 indicators in the Sustainable Economic Opportunity category are divided into four sub-categories: Public Management, Business Environment, Infrastructure and Rural Sector. Scores in this category range from 2.3 for Somalia to 79.7 for Mauritius.\n\nThe Public Management sub-category includes 11 indicators measuring Statistical Capacity, Public Administration, Inflation, Diversification, Reserves, Budget Management, Ratio of Total Revenue to Total Expenditure, Fiscal Policy, Ratio of External Debt Services to Exports, Revenue Collection and Soundness of banks.\n\nThe Business Environment sub-category includes six indicators measuring Competition Environment, Investment Climate, Investment Climate for Rural Businesses, Bureaucracy and Red Tape, and Customs Procedures.\n\nThe Infrastructure sub-category includes six indicators measuring Electricity, Roads, Rail Network, Air Transport, Telephone and IT Infrastructure and Digital Connectivity.\n\nThe Rural Sector subcategory includes seven indicators measuring Public Resources for Rural Development and Land and Water for Low-Income Rural Populations, Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Agricultural Input and Produce Markets, Policy and Legal Framework for Rural Organisations, Dialogue between Government and Rural Organisations and Agricultural Policy Costs.\n\nThe 22 indicators in the Human Development category are divided into three sub-categories: Welfare, Health and Education. Scores in this category range from 13.1 for Somalia to 92.2 for Seychelles in 2013.\n\nThe Welfare sub-category includes nine indicators measuring the Welfare Regime, Social Protection & Labour, Social Exclusion, Welfare Services(Health and Education), Equity of public Resource Use, Access to Water, Access to Sanitation, Environmental Policy and Environmental Sustainability.\n\nThe Education sub-category includes seven indicators measuring the Educational Provision and Quality, Education System Quality, the Ratio of Pupils to Teachers in Primary School, Primary School Completion, Progression to Secondary School, Tertiary Enrolment and Literacy.\n\nThe Health sub-category includes six indicators measuring Maternal Mortality, Child Mortality, Immunization (Measles & DPT), Antiretroviral Treatment Provision, Disease (Malaria & TB) and Undernourishment.\n\nThe IIAG is designed to be a tool for citizens, governments, institutions and business to assess the delivery of public goods and services, and policy outcomes, across Africa. It is an annual publication which receives extensive media attention from across the African continent and in the international media.\n\nWhile no one questions the worthiness of the Index's ambitions, some scholars have questioned the effectiveness of the Index and particularly the need for civil society to engage with its results — the point is that there does not often exist in Africa a strong and effective civil society. Others maintain that such perspective ignores the important role that civil society is now beginning to play in African politics.\n\nWhile the IIAG is comprehensive, there are a few notable anomalies thrown by the results. One example is the extremely high placing of Gabon (8 out of 48 Sub-Saharan African countries); however, while Gabon's political participation and human rights record may be poor, it does have relatively high human development indicators.\n\nPrevious critique suggested that the Index was limited to the 48 Sub-Saharan African countries, ignoring Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya and Egypt. To be a fully representative Index of African Governance, as it claimed, it needed to expand its coverage to include North Africa. The 2009 index included these countries.\n\n\"*Sudan and South Sudan are not included in the IIAG.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19626384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19626384", "title": "Interlocutor (politics)", "text": "Interlocutor (politics)\n\nAn interlocutor is someone who informally explains the views of a government and also can relay messages back to a government. Unlike a spokesperson, an interlocutor often has no formal position within a government or any formal authority to speak on its behalf, and even when they do, everything an interlocutor says is his own personal opinion and not the official view of anyone. Communications between interlocutors are often useful at conveying information and ideas. Often interlocutors will talk with each other before formal negotiations. Interlocutors play an extremely important role in Sino-American relations.\n\n"}
{"id": "18644669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18644669", "title": "International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament", "text": "International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament\n\nThe International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament is a joint initiative of the Australian and Japanese governments. It was proposed by Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd on 9 June 2008, and on 9 July 2008 Rudd and Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda agreed to establish it. \n\nThe Commission is co-chaired by former Australian foreign minister Gareth Evans and former Japanese foreign minister Yoriko Kawaguchi. Key goals for the Commission include undertaking preparatory work for the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference in 2010, including shaping a global consensus in the lead-up to the Review Conference.\n\nThe Commission presented its report on 15 December 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "43133828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43133828", "title": "International Crisis Behavior Project", "text": "International Crisis Behavior Project\n\nThe International Crisis Behavior (ICB) Project is a project that collates interstate crisis data from 1918 (the end of World War I) onward to a few years ago (currently till 2013).\n\nThe International Crisis Behavior project contains data on international crises from 1918 onward (i.e., after the end of World War I) until a few years ago. As of March 2016, the newest available data is ICB Version 11, released in February 2016. The data for this version extends till 2013, and includes 470 international crises, 35 protracted conflicts, and 1036 crisis actors. All data is available freely for download.\n\nData from the ICB has been referenced in a number of academic papers studying the patterns of conflicts and international crises. It was also used in Chapter 3 of the book \"What Do We Know About War?\" edited by John A. Vasquez. The Forecasting Principles website lists the ICB Project as an important data resource in the analysis of conflict and terror.\n"}
{"id": "35018329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35018329", "title": "Kileler uprising", "text": "Kileler uprising\n\nThe Kileler uprising occurred in Thessaly, Kingdom of Greece, in March 1910, when local farmers engaged in mass protests against the extended privileges of landowners and the limitation of their own rights. The protest was brutally suppressed by the local militia; more than four protesters were killed and many of them were wounded.\n\nEven though the mainly agricultural province of Thessaly was given from the Ottoman Empire to the Kingdom of Greece through the Convention of Constantinoupole in 1881, rural areas continued for many years to be regulated through the Chiflik system, which derived from the Ottoman times. While the chiflik owners held a semi-feudal status and received a part of the agricultural output they were obliged to provide housing for their farmers and weren't allowed to apply forced labour. As the living and working conditions of the farmers worsened, protests became more frequent especially after the assassination of figures like activist Marinos Antypas. The promises of Eleftherios Venizelos during his 1910 electoral campaign concerning agricultural reform further aggravated the farmers. In March 1910 the farmers organized a mass protest in Larissa and villagers from many areas of the prefecture travelled to city.\n\nThe Kileler incident began when several hundred farmers tried to travel by train to Larissa without buying tickets. When their request was rejected the farmers backed down but a confrontation occurred between them and the station supervisor, who asked for the intervention of the local militia that attacked the farmers killing two of them and wounding many others. When the train reached the station of Tsoular (modern Melia) it didn't stop to pick up farmers, of whom two were shot dead by the militia located inside the train. As news of the killings spread in Larissa clashes between the militia and the protesters became frequent.\n\nMany of the farmers were tried for the events of the protests, but none were sentenced.\n\nEventually the need of the central government to use farmers as recruits and after 1922 the settlement of refugees from Asia Minor in Greece led to the implementation of a 1917 law regarding land redestribution.\n"}
{"id": "12986930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12986930", "title": "Langar (Sufism)", "text": "Langar (Sufism)\n\nLangar is the provision of free food to the needy in a religious context. Its origin is from Sufism (Islam) because serving of food to the needy has been a rich tradition in Sufism, especially of the Chishti Order. There is extensive use of free food imagery and metaphor in Sufi writings. Sugar and other sweet foods represent the sweetness of piety and community with God, while salt symbolizes purity and incorruptibility. Through the pronouncement of Bismallah during the bread-making process, the bread is imbued with spiritual power or barakat, which is shared by those who eat the bread. The transformation of the raw wheat to finished bread is used as an analogy for Sufi spiritual development.\n\nSufi ritual observances (dhikr) are concerned with remembrance of God through exaltation and praise. Singing, dancing, and drumming are commonly part of such rituals, as is sharing of food. For example, ashura is a dish that takes its name from the festival celebrated by the Shia sect of Islam. During preparation of the ashura, mullas stir the pot in a special way while pronouncing the name of God. Sharing the ashura then becomes a way of spreading remembrance of God in the form of bodily nourishment.\n\nThe tradition of Langar was also adopted by the Sikh community, where it goes by the same name.\n\nFood is served out of a massive pot called a \"deg\" in the precincts of a dargah (Sufi shrine), and is usually vegetarian. It is also actively distributed to the poor.\n"}
{"id": "58660345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58660345", "title": "Liberal Women of Chesterfield County", "text": "Liberal Women of Chesterfield County\n\nLiberal Women of Chesterfield County (LWCC) is a Facebook group of liberal women activists organized to support Democratic candidates in Chesterfield County, Virginia. \"LWCC strives to be a safe haven for liberal women and their allies to support, educate, and encourage one another to be actively involved in our government...\"\n\nPrior to the formation of LWCC, \"90 for 90\" was a get-out-the vote program begun in 2015 by Democrats in Chesterfield County to honor the 90th birthday of Dr. William Ferguson \"Fergie\" Reid, especially in gerrymandered districts. An initial goal of the \"90 for 90\" program was to find a candidate to defeat Republican Eric Cantor, then the House majority leader. Many of the women and men present at that meeting sponsored by the Chesterfield Democratic Party became newly energized activists in Virginia politics, lobbying about their issues at the Virginia State Capitol building and before the Virginia General Assembly. Some also became stalwarts in advocating for other issues such as quality of education, racial justice, environmentalism, women's health and safety, and passage of the ERA. They also engaged in the close final vote re-counts in the race for Attorney General of Virginia, which was won by a triple-digit vote count by Democrat Mark Herring over Republican Mark Obenshain. Many people in the \"90 for 90\" Democratic advocacy group eventually became members of Liberal Women of Chesterfield County, which also drew membership from the Chesterfield Democratic Committee and lobbyists such as the Sierra Club and the League of Women Voters.\n\nIn 2016, poet and writer Kim Drew Wright founded Liberal Women of Chesterfield County. A graduate in journalism from the University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill, she worked in the field of advertising. She lives with her husband and three children in the 7th Congressional District of Virginia. She began and continues to be the administrator of the Facebook page for LWCC, co-ordinating the group's many meetings and events even while undergoing chemotherapy treatment for cancer. Chesterfield County, where the Liberal Women of Chesterfield County group of activists is centered, is a populous suburb of the City of Richmond. Since the LWCC group is in the 7th Congressional District, a rural-suburban mix that stretches from Culpeper County to Nottoway County, and since the group membership grew to over 4000 people including some outside the district, it is sometimes called \"Liberal Women of Chesterfield County - and Beyond.\"\n\nLWCC engages in community volunteerism beyond politics. LWCC members have stocked the high school food go-home pantries of needy teens of Chesterfield County and teamed up with local organization \"Sylvia Sisters\" to ensure that needy girls get feminine hygiene products both locally and in Uganda. LWCC advocacy groups ensure that members are given needed supplies, and they volunteer hours to public schools. They also participated in a highway clean-up project,\"Adopt a Highway\". The organization Liberal Women of Chesterfield County is creating a national guide, Liberal Women United, a website for branches of similarly-minded women around the United States.\n\nFor the mid-term 2018 elections, LWCC focused on the race between Democrat Abigail Spanberger, a former CIA operative, and Rep. Dave Brat (R) which became one of the most competitive in the nation. Committees independent of the candidates lavished \"$2.2 million on TV and social media ads in the 7th Congressional District, according to the nonpartisan Virginia Public Access Project.\" An incident of fake signs purporting to be for Spanberger and another incident of the U.S. Post Office sending information that should not have been released occurred in relation to the Spanberger-Brat contest. Brat's campaign issued a defamatory ad against Spanberger calling a school where she briefly taught English \"Terror High.\" The Washington Post reported that the Congressional Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), aired the anti-Spanberger ad that centered on her brief work as a substitute teacher at an Islamic school in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nLWCC members met frequently to write and mail post cards to voters in the 7th Congressional District of Virginia in support of favored candidates throughout the Commonwealth. In 2018's mid-term elections, candidates supported by this program were Scott Miles, Democrat running for Chesterfield County Commonwealth's Attorney; Democratic Senator, Tim Kaine running for re-election; and Abigail Spanberger, Democrat and former CIA officer, opposing in her first run for political office incumbent Dave Brat, U.S. Representative for Virginia's 7th congressional district since 2014, when he defeated Eric Cantor in the Republican primary. The energetic post card campaign, along with door-to-door canvassing, proved successful. Scott Miles, Abigail Spanberger, and Tim Kaine were all elected.\n\nFundraising ranged from the local level to the national level. Many groups and individuals have sent donations directly to LWCC candidates' campaigns and endorsed them. Creative ways are found to support fundraisers for LWCC candidates, including hosting parties in members' homes for which tickets are sold. Telephone-banking (phone calls to voters with reminders of election and rally days) and Facebook sharing of events sponsored by LWCC help members to keep in touch for carpooling and door-to-door canvassing.\n\nAfter Donald Trump's election in 2016, a group of liberal women in Chesterfield County, Virginia, a traditionally conservative part of the Commonwealth of Virgina, joined together as activists to work for change. CNN's Bill Weir reported on their progress. Members of LWCC support many other active liberal progressive groups addressing issues such as the Equal Rights Amendment. LWCC is not a voting bloc, and efforts are underway to consider and promote the ERA as a non-partisan issue.\n\nSome local and national candidates supported by most LWCC members include Abigail Spanberger, Jenefer Hughes, Scott Miles, Wayne Powell, Jack Trammell, Ralph Northam, Hillary Clinton, Mark Herring, Barack Obama, and Tim Kaine.\n\nDemocrat Jenefer Hughes challenged incumbent Republican Timothy McPeters in a special election to be Chesterfield Commissioner of Revenue and won by 55% of the vote. “Chesterfield County has changed. Chesterfield County is very balanced between Democrats and Republicans. And my election actually reflects that,” Hughes said. “It’s the first step to getting fair representation to 2019, when all the local offices come up for election.”\n\nPrior to the 2018 mid-term elections, Abigail Spanberger vs. Dave Brat debates ended with the Republican candidate Brat complaining that the LWCC women were \"in his grill\" at debates, rallies, and other public appearances. Abigail Spanberger and Dave Brat debated on October 15, 2018, a debate marked by the fact that Brat mentioned Nancy Pelosi 21 times.\n\n"}
{"id": "750813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750813", "title": "Liberté, égalité, fraternité", "text": "Liberté, égalité, fraternité\n\nLiberté, égalité, fraternité (), French for \"liberty, equality, fraternity\", is the national motto of France and the Republic of Haiti, and is an example of a tripartite motto. Although it finds its origins in the French Revolution, it was then only one motto among others and was not institutionalized until the Third Republic at the end of the 19th century. Debates concerning the compatibility and order of the three terms began at the same time as the Revolution. It is also the motto of the Grand Orient de France and the Grande Loge de France.\n\nThe first to express this motto was Maximilien Robespierre in his speech \"On the organization of the National Guard\" () on 5 December 1790, article XVI, and disseminated widely throughout France by the popular Societies.\n\nCredit for the motto has been given also to Antoine-François Momoro (1756–94), a Parisian printer and Hébertist organizer, though in different context of foreign invasion and Federalist revolts in 1793, \nit was modified to \"Unity, indivisibility of the Republic; liberty, equality, brotherhood or death\" () and suggested by a resolution of the Paris Commune (member of which Momoro was elected by his section du Théâtre-Français) on 29 June 1793 to be inscribed on Parisian house-fronts and imitated by the inhabitants of other cities. In 1839, the philosopher Pierre Leroux claimed it had been an anonymous and popular creation. The historian Mona Ozouf underlines that, although \"Liberté\" and \"Égalité\" were associated as a motto during the 18th century, \"Fraternité\" wasn't always included in it, and other terms, such as \"Amitié\" (Friendship), \"Charité\" (Charity) or \"Union\" were often added in its place.\n\nThe emphasis on \"Fraternité\" during the French Revolution led Olympe de Gouges, a female journalist, to write the Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen as a response. The tripartite motto was neither a creative collection, nor really institutionalized by the French Revolution. As soon as 1789, other terms were used, such as \"\"la Nation, la Loi, le Roi\" (The Nation, The Law, The King), or \"Union, Force, Vertu\" (Union, Strength, Virtue), a slogan used beforehand by masonic lodges, or \"Force, Égalité, Justice\" (Strength, Equality, Justice), \"Liberté, Sûreté, Propriété\"\" (Liberty, Security, Property), etc.\nIn other words, \"liberté, égalité, fraternité\" was only one slogan among many others. During the Jacobin revolutionary period itself, various mottos were used, such as \"liberté, unité, égalité\" (liberty, unity, equality); \"liberté, égalité, justice\" (liberty, equality, justice); \"liberté, raison, égalité\" (liberty, reason, equality), etc. The only solid association was that of \"liberté\" and \"égalité\", \"fraternité\" being ignored by the \"Cahiers de doléances\" as well as by the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. It was only alluded to in the 1791 Constitution, as well as in Robespierre's draft Declaration of 1793, placed under the invocation of (in that order) \"égalité, liberté, sûreté\" and \"propriété\" (equality, liberty, safety, property — though it was used not as a motto, but as articles of declaration), as the possibility of a universal extension of the Declaration of Rights: \"Men of all countries are brothers, he who oppresses one nation declares himself the enemy of all.\" Finally, it did not figure in the August 1793 Declaration.\n\nThe Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen of 1789 defined liberty in Article 4 as follows:\n\nEquality, on the other hand, was defined by the 1789 Declaration in terms of judicial equality and merit-based entry to government (art. 6):\n\n\"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\" actually finds its origins in a May 1791 proposition by the \"Club des Cordeliers\", following a speech on the Army by the marquis de Guichardin. A British marine held prisoner on the French ship \"Le Marat\" in 1794 wrote home in letters published in 1796:\n\nThe compatibility of \"liberté\" and \"égalité\" was not doubted in the first days of the Revolution, and the problem of the antecedence of one term on the other not lifted. Thus, the Abbé Sieyès considered that only liberty ensured equality, unless the latter was to be the equality of all dominated by a despot; while liberty followed equality ensured by the rule of law. The abstract generality of law (theorized by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in \"The Social Contract\") thus ensured the identification of liberty to equality, liberty being negatively defined as an independence from arbitrary rule, and equality considered abstractly in its judicial form.\n\nThis identification of liberty and equality became problematic during the Jacobin period, when equality was redefined (for instance by François-Noël Babeuf) as equality of results, and not only judicial equality of rights. Thus, Marc Antoine Baudot considered that French temperament inclined rather to equality than liberty, a theme which would be re-used by Pierre Louis Roederer and Alexis de Tocqueville, while Jacques Necker considered that an equal society could only be found on coercion.\n\nThe third term, \"fraternité\", was the most problematic to insert in the triad, as it belonged to another sphere, that of moral obligations rather than rights, links rather than statutes, harmony rather than contract, and community rather than individuality. Various interpretations of \"fraternité\" existed. The first one, according to Mona Ozouf, was one of \"fraternité de rébellion\" (Fraternity of Rebellion), that is the union of the deputies in the \"Jeu de Paume Oath\" of June 1789, refusing the dissolution ordered by the King Louis XVI: \"We swear never to separate ourselves from the National Assembly, and to reassemble wherever circumstances require, until the constitution of the realm is drawn up and fixed upon solid foundations.\" Fraternity was thus issued from Liberty and oriented by a common cause.\n\nAnother form of \"fraternité\" was that of the patriotic Church, which identified social link with religious link and based fraternity on Christian brotherhood. In this second sense, \"fraternité\" preceded both \"liberté\" and \"égalité\", instead of following them as in the first sense. Thus, two senses of Fraternity: \"one, that followed liberty and equality, was the object of a free pact; the other preceded liberty and equality as the mark on its work of the divine craftsman.\"\n\nAnother hesitation concerning the compatibility of the three terms arose from the opposition between liberty and equality as individualistic values, and fraternity as the realization of a happy community, devoided of any conflicts and opposed to any form of egotism. This fusional interpretation of Fraternity opposed it to the project of individual autonomy and manifested the precedence of Fraternity on individual will.\n\nIn this sense, it was sometimes associated with death, as in \"Fraternité, ou la Mort!\" (Fraternity or Death!), excluding liberty and even equality, by establishing a strong dichotomy between those who were brothers and those who were not (in the sense of \"you are with me or against me\", brother or foe). Louis de Saint-Just thus stigmatized Anarchasis Cloots' cosmopolitanism, declaring \"Cloots liked the universe, except France.\"\n\nWith Thermidor and the execution of Robespierre, \"fraternité\" disappeared from the slogan, reduced to the two terms of liberty and equality, re-defined again as simple judicial equality and not as the equality upheld by the sentiment of fraternity. The First Consul (Napoleon Bonaparte) then established the motto \"liberté, ordre public\" (liberty, public order).\n\nFollowing Napoleon's rule, the triptych dissolved itself, as none believed possible to conciliate individual liberty and equality of rights with equality of results and fraternity. The idea of individual sovereignty and of natural rights possessed by man before being united in the collectivity contradicted the possibility of establishing a transparent and fraternal community. Liberals accepted liberty and equality, defining the latter as equality of rights and ignoring fraternity.\n\nEarly socialists rejected an independent conception of liberty, opposed to the social, and also despised equality, as they considered, as Fourier, that one had only to orchestrate individual discordances, to harmonize them, or they believed, as Saint-Simon, that equality contradicted equity by a brutal levelling of individualities. Utopian socialism thus only valued fraternity, which was, in Cabet's Icarie the sole commandment.\n\nThis opposition between liberals and socialists was mirrored in rival historical interpretations of the Revolution, liberals admiring 1789, and socialists 1793. The July Revolution of 1830, establishing a constitutional monarchy headed by Louis-Philippe, substituted \"ordre et liberté\" (order and liberty) to the Napoleonic motto \"Liberté, Ordre public\". Despite this apparent disappearance of the triptych, the latter was still being thought in some underground circles, in Republican secret societies, masonic lodges such as the \"Indivisible Trinity,\" far-left booklets or during the Canuts Revolt in Lyon. In 1834, the lawyer of the Society of the Rights of Man (Société des droits de l'homme), Dupont, a liberal sitting in the far-left during the July Monarchy, associated the three terms together in the \"Revue Républicaine\" which he edited:\n\nThe triptych resurfaced during the 1847 \"Campagne des Banquets\", upheld for example in Lille by Ledru-Rollin.\n\nTwo interpretations had attempted to conciliate the three terms, beyond the antagonism between liberals and socialists. One was upheld by Catholic traditionalists, such as Chateaubriand or Ballanche, the other by socialist and republicans such as Pierre Leroux. Chateaubriand thus gave a Christian interpretation of the revolutionary motto, stating in the 1841 conclusion to his \"Mémoires d'outre-tombe\":\n\nNeither Chateaubriand nor Ballanche considered the three terms to be antagonistic. Rather, they took them for being the achievement of Christianity. On the other hand, Pierre Leroux did not disguise the difficulties of associating the three terms, but superated it by considering liberty as the aim, equality as the principle and fraternity as the means. Leroux thus ordered the motto as Liberty, Fraternity, Equality, an order also supported by Christian socialists, such as Buchez.\n\nAgainst this new order of the triptych, Michelet supported the traditional order, maintaining the primordial importance of an original individualistic right. Michelet attempted to conciliate a rational communication with a fraternal communication, \"right beyond right\", and thus the rival traditions of socialism and liberalism. The republican tradition would strongly inspire itself from Michelet's synchretism.\n\nWith the 1848 February Revolution, the motto was officially adopted, mainly under the pressure of the people who had attempted to impose the red flag over the tricolor flag (the 1791 red flag was, however, the symbol of martial law and of order, not of insurrection). Lamartine opposed popular aspirations, and in exchange of the maintaining of the tricolor flag, conceded the Republican motto of \"Liberté, Égalité, Fraternité\", written on the flag, on which a red rosette was also to be added.\n\nFraternity was then considered to resume and to contain both Liberty and Equality, being a form of civil religion (which, far from opposing itself to Christianity, was associated with it in 1848) establishing social link (as called for by Rousseau in the conclusion of the \"Social Contract\").\n\nHowever, Fraternity was not devoid of its previous sense of opposition between brothers and foes, images of blood haunting revolutionary Christian publications, taking in Lamennais' themes. Thus, the newspaper \"Le Christ républicain\" (The Republican Christ) developed the idea of the Christ bringing forth peace to the poor and war to the rich.\n\nAs soon as 6 January 1852, the future Napoleon III, first President of the Republic, ordered all prefects to erase the triptych from all official documents and buildings, conflated with insurrection and disorder. Auguste Comte applauded Napoleon, claiming equality to be the \"symbol of metaphysical anarchism\", and preferring to it his diptych \"ordre et progrès\" (\"order and progress\", which would then become the motto of Brazil, Ordem e Progresso). On the other hand, Proudhon criticized fraternity as an empty word, which he associated with idealistic dreams of Romanticism. He preferred to it the sole term of liberty.\n\nPache, mayor of the Paris Commune, painted the formula \"Liberté, Égalité, Fraternité, ou la mort\" on the walls of the commune. It was only under the Third Republic that the motto was made official. It was then not dissociated with insurrection and revolutionary ardours, Opportunist Republicans such as Jules Ferry or Gambetta adapting it to the new political conditions. Larousse's \"Dictionnaire universel\" deprived fraternity of its \"evangelistic halo\" (Mona Ozouf), conflating it with solidarity and the welfare role of the state.\n\nSome still opposed the Republican motto, such as the nationalist Charles Maurras in his \"Dictionnaire politique et critique\", who claimed liberty to be an empty dream, equality an insanity, and only kept fraternity. Charles Péguy, renewing with Lamennais' thought, kept fraternity and liberty, excluding equality, seen as an abstract repartition between individuals reduced to homogeneity, opposing \"fraternity\" as a sentiment put in motion by \"misery\", while equality only interested itself, according to him, to the mathematical solution of the problem of \"poverty.\"\n\nPéguy identified Christian charity and socialist solidarity in this conception of fraternity. On the other hand, Georges Vacher de Lapouge, the most important French author of pseudo-scientific racism and supporter of eugenism, completely rejected the republican triptych, adopting another motto, \"\"déterminisme, inégalité, sélection\" (determinism, inequality, selection). But, according to Ozouf, the sole use of a triptych was the sign of the influence of the republican motto, despite it being corrupted in its opposite.\n\nDuring the German occupation of France in World War II, this motto was replaced by the reactionary phrase \"travail, famille, patrie\"\" (work, family, fatherland) by Marshal Pétain, who became the leader of the new Vichy French government in 1940. Pétain had taken this motto from the colonel de la Rocque's \"Parti social français\" (PSF), although the latter considered it more appropriate for a movement than for a regime.\n\nFollowing the Liberation, the Provisional Government of the French Republic (GPRF) re-established the Republican motto \"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\", which is incorporated into both the 1946 and the 1958 French constitutions.\n\nMany other nations have adopted the French slogan of \"liberty, equality, and fraternity\" as an ideal. These words appear in the preamble to the Constitution of India, enforced in 1950. Since its founding, \"Liberty, Equality and Brotherhood\" has been the lemma of the Social Democratic Party of Denmark. In the United Kingdom the political party the Liberal Democrats refer to \"the fundamental values of liberty, equality and community\" in the preamble of the party's Federal Constitution, and this is printed on party membership cards.\n\nThe Philippine national flag has a rectangular design that\nconsists of a white equilateral triangle, symbolizing liberty,\nequality, and fraternity; a horizontal blue stripe for peace,\ntruth, and justice; and a horizontal red stripe for patriotism\nand valor . In the center of the white triangle is an eight-\nrayed golden sun symbolizing unity, freedom, people's\ndemocracy, and sovereignty.\n\nThe idea of the slogan \"Liberty, Equality, Fraternity\" has also given an influence as natural law to the First Article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights:\n\nAt one point the motto was used to mark churches which were controlled by the state, rather than the Catholic Church.\n\nSome former colonies of the French Republic (such as Haiti, Chad, Niger, and Gabon) have adopted similar three-word mottos.\n\nThe terms are also referred to in the film trilogy Three Colors by Krzysztof Kieślowski.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14335622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14335622", "title": "Loss of United Kingdom child benefit data (2007)", "text": "Loss of United Kingdom child benefit data (2007)\n\nThe loss of United Kingdom child benefit data was a data breach incident in October 2007, when two computer discs owned by Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs containing data relating to child benefit went missing. The incident was announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling, on 20 November 2007. The two discs contained the personal details of all families in the United Kingdom claiming child benefit, of which takeup in the UK is near 100%.\n\nThe discs were sent by junior staff at HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) based at Waterview Park in Washington, Tyne and Wear, to the National Audit Office (NAO), as unrecorded internal mail via TNT on October 18. On October 24 the NAO complained to the HMRC that they had not received the data. On November 8, senior officials in HMRC were informed of the loss, with Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling being informed on November 10. On November 20, Darling announced:\nThe lost data was thought to concern approximately 25 million people in the UK (nearly half of the country's population). The personal data on the missing discs was reported to include names and addresses of parents and children and dates of birth of the children, together with the National Insurance numbers and bank or building society details of their parents.\n\nThe \"password protection\" in question is that provided by WinZip version 8. This is a weak, proprietary scheme (unnamed encryption and hash algorithms) with well-known attacks. Anyone competent in computing would be able to break this protection by downloading readily-available tools. WinZip version 9 introduced AES encryption, which would have been secure and only breakable by correctly knowing the passphrase.\n\nIn a list of frequently asked questions, on the BBC News website a breakdown of the loss was reported as being:\n\nWhilst government ministers claimed that a junior official was to blame, the Conservatives said that the fault lay in part with senior management. This was based on a claim that the National Audit Office had requested that bank details be removed from the data before it was sent, but that HMRC had denied this request, because it would be \"too costly and complicated\".\nEmails released on 22 November confirmed that senior HMRC officials had been made aware of the decision on cost grounds not to strip out sensitive information. The cost of removing sensitive information has been given as £5,000. Although the cost was found to be substantially less (£650) in an academic study.\n\nAccording to an IT trade journal \"Computer Weekly\", it said that back in March 2007, the NAO had asked for completed information of the child benefit database to be sent by post on CDs, instead of a sample of the database. The first time this was done, things went smoothly, and the package was registered post. However this time, it was unregistered through the courier.\n\nIt was later revealed on the 17 December 2007, that the data protection manual for HMRC was in itself under restriction to only senior members of staff, not junior civil servants who had just a summary of what the manual says on security.\n\nThis was followed by several other data scandals. On the 17th of December, it was revealed by Ruth Kelly that the details of three million learner drivers were lost in the United States. However the only details said to be lost were the: name, address, phone number, the fee paid, the test centre, payment code and e-mail, so not much of a panic was caused due to a reduced risk of financial fraud. On the 23 December, it was revealed that nine NHS trusts had also lost the data of hundreds of thousands of patients, some of it archive information, some of it medical records, contact details and soft financial data. A few other trusts also lost data, but found it fairly quickly. Several other UK firms have also admitted security failings.\n\nDarling stated that there was no indication that the details had fallen into criminal hands, but he urged those affected to monitor their bank accounts. He said \"If someone is the innocent victim of fraud as a result of this incident, people can be assured they have protection under the Banking Code so they will not suffer any financial loss as a result.\" HMRC then set up a Child Benefit Helpline for those concerned about the data loss.\n\nThe incident was a breach of the UK's Data Protection Act and resulted in the resignation of HMRC chairman Paul Gray; Darling commented that the discs were probably destroyed when \"the hunt was on, probably within days\" and that there was an \"opaque\" management structure at HMRS and it was difficult to see who was responsible for what. Gray was subsequently found to be working at Cabinet Office. The Metropolitan Police and the Independent Police Complaints Commission both investigated the security breach, and uniformed police officers investigated HMRC offices. The loss led to much criticism by the Acting Leader of the Liberal Democrats Vince Cable and Shadow Chancellor George Osborne. Osborne said:\n\nIn addition he said that it was the \"final blow for the ambitions of this government to create a national ID database\". Cable also criticised the use of disks in the modern age of electronic data transfer. Spokespersons for Gordon Brown, however, said that the Prime Minister fully supported Darling, and said that Darling had not expressed any intention to resign.\n\nThe general reaction of the public was one of anger and worry. Banks, individuals, businesses and government departments became more vigilant over data fraud and identity theft and the government pledged to be more careful with data. The public and media was particularly angry over the fact that the data was not registered or recorded, and that it was not securely encrypted.\n\nNick Assinder, a political correspondent at the BBC, expressed the opinion that he believed Darling to be \"on borrowed time\". George Osborne, who questioned whether Darling was \"up to the job\", suggested that it would be a matter of days before a decision was made regarding Darling's future. However Darling remained Chancellor until Labour's defeat in 2010. \n\nTNT stated that, as the delivery was not recorded, it would not be possible to even ascertain if it had actually been sent, let alone where it went.\n\nOn 7 January 2008, Jeremy Clarkson found himself the subject of direct debit fraud after publishing his bank account and sort code details in his column in \"The Sun\" to make the point that public concern over the scandal was unnecessary. He wrote, “All you'll be able to do with them is put money into my account. Not take it out. Honestly, I've never known such a palaver about nothing”. Someone then used these details to set up a £500 direct debit to the charity Diabetes UK. In his next \"Sunday Times\" column, Clarkson wrote, “I was wrong and I have been punished for my mistake.″ Under the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee, the payment could be reversed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6938777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6938777", "title": "Michael Uhlmann", "text": "Michael Uhlmann\n\nMichael Martin Uhlmann (born December 29, 1939) is Professor of Government in the Department of Politics and Government at Claremont Graduate University and Claremont McKenna College. Prior to teaching at Claremont, Dr. Uhlmann was a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, Vice President for Public Policy Research at the Bradley Foundation in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and taught at the George Mason University Law School.\n\nHe graduated from The Hill School in 1958.\nHe received his undergraduate degree from Yale, his law degree from the University of Virginia, and his Ph.D. from Claremont Graduate School.\n\nBefore embarking on an academic career, Uhlmann served as Assistant Attorney General in the Ford Administration and as special assistant to the President during Ronald Reagan’s first term in office.\n\nIn 1979, Michael Uhlmann was profiled in \"The\" \"New York Times\" by Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr. for his work as President of the National Legal Center for the Public Interest.\n\nDr. Uhlmann is a frequent contributor to the \"Claremont Review of Books\", most recently with the articles, “The Supreme Court v. the Constitution of the United States of America”, and “The Right Stuff”, a panegyric of the life, writings, and talent of William F. Buckley, Jr. Other articles written by Dr. Uhlmann have appeared in the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"National Review\", \"The American Spectator\", \"Washington Times\", \"Crisis\", and \"The Human Life Review\". His most recent book is \"Last Rights?: Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia Debated\". Additionally, his work \"The Electoral College: Proven Constitutional Pillar of Freedom\" includes his 1970 testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee defending the propriety of the Electoral College and discussing the central role this provision serves in the constitutional structure of America.\n\nWhen not in academia or serving in the executive branch, Dr. Uhlmann practiced law in the Washington office of Pepper, Hamilton, and Scheetz, where he was a partner specializing in federal antitrust, administrative and environmental law.\n"}
{"id": "43293187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43293187", "title": "Midlands Industrial Council", "text": "Midlands Industrial Council\n\nThe Midlands Industrial Council is a British group of wealthy businessmen who help to fund the Conservative Party. According to the Sunday Times, they are one of the Party's 'most important financial backers'.\n\nAs well as the Conservative Party they have also funded the Taxpayers Alliance and individual Conservative parliamentary candidates.\n\nThe group is chaired by Robert Edmiston, founder of Christian Vision. Midlands Industrial Council only lists one Midlands industrial company member, among other individuals with an interest in importing products to the UK rather than in Midlands industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "44682483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44682483", "title": "Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism (Chile)", "text": "Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism (Chile)\n\nThe Ministry for the Economy, Development, and Tourism () is a Chilean state ministry in charge of planning and executing the flow of policies and projects of the Chilean government. The ministry aims to generate feasible and sustainable economic development, with stable progressive equality in the allocation of economic interests. The current Minister of Economy, Development, and Tourism is José Ramón Valente Vias.\nThe groundwork for the ministry were established in the 1930s—a period that saw the creation of the Subsecretary of Commerce that was dependent on the Ministry of Foreign Relations of that era. But the actual ministry itself was realized in October 1941 as Ministry of Commerce and Supply, and by 1942 it was ratified as the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Subsequently, it was renamed to Ministry of Economy (1953–1960), and hitherto the Ministry of Economy, Development, and Reconstruction.\n\nThe Ministry for the Economy, Development, and Reconstruction is divided into three organizations headed by sub-secretaries:\n\nGovernment organisations related to, dependent, or under supervision of the Ministry of Economy, Development, and Reconstruction include:\n\n"}
{"id": "20116657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20116657", "title": "National Liberation Committee", "text": "National Liberation Committee\n\nThe National Liberation Committee (, CLN) was a political umbrella organization and the main representative of the Italian resistance movement fighting against the German occupation of Italy in the aftermath of the armistice of Cassibile. It was a multi-party entity, whose members were united by their anti-fascism.\n\nThe CLN was formed on 9 September 1943, following Italy's surrender to the Allies and Germany's invasion of the country. The member parties were the Italian Communist Party, the Italian Socialist Party, the Action Party, Christian Democracy, the Labour Democratic Party, and the Italian Liberal Party. With the backing of the Royal government and the Allied powers, CLN gained official recognition as the representative of the Italian resistance movement, and had several leaders operating underground in German-occupied Italy.\n\nThe partisan formations controlled by the CLN were primarily divided between three main groups, Communist Garibaldi Brigades, the Action Party's Justice and Freedom Brigades, and Socialist \"Matteotti\" Brigades. Smaller groups included Catholic and monarchist partisans. There were partisan units not represented in the CLN, including the \"Brigata Maiella\" and anarchist, republican and Trotskyist formations.\n\nThe CLN led the governments of Italy from the liberation of Rome in June 1944 until the first post-war general election in 1946.\n\n"}
{"id": "725182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725182", "title": "Official", "text": "Official\n\nAn official is someone who holds an office (function or mandate, regardless whether it carries an actual working space with it) in an organization or government and participates in the exercise of authority (either their own or that of their superior and/or employer, public or legally private).\n\nA government official or functionary is an official who is involved in public administration or government, through either election, appointment, selection, or employment. A bureaucrat or civil servant is a member of the bureaucracy. An elected official is a person who is an official by virtue of an election. Officials may also be appointed \"ex officio\" (by virtue of another office, often in a specified capacity, such as presiding, advisory, secretary). Some official positions may be inherited. A person who currently holds an office is referred to as an incumbent.\n\nThe word \"official\" as a noun has been recorded since the Middle English period, first seen in 1314. It comes from the Old French \"official\" (12th century), from the Latin \"officialis\" (\"attendant to a magistrate, public official\"), the noun use of the original adjective \"officialis\" (\"of or belonging to duty, service, or office\") from \"officium\" (\"office\"). The meaning \"person in charge of some public work or duty\" was first recorded in 1555. The adjective is first attested in English in 1533 via the Old French \"\".\n\nThe informal term \"officialese\", the jargon of \"officialdom\", was first recorded in 1884.\n\nAn \"officialis\" (plural \"officiales\") was the official term (somewhat comparable to a modern civil servant) for any member of the officium (staff) of a high dignitary such as a governor.\n\nIn Canon law, the word or its Latin original officialis is used absolutely as the legal title of a diocesan bishop's judicial vicar who shares the bishop's ordinary judicial power over the diocese and presides over the diocesan ecclesiastical court.\n\nThe 1983 Code of Canon Law gives precedence to the title Judicial Vicar, rather than that of Officialis (canon 1420). The Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches uses only the title Judicial Vicar (canon 191).\n\nIn German, the related noun \"Offizialat\" was also used for an official bureau in a diocese that did much of its administration, comprising the vicariate-general, an adjoined secretariat, a registry office and a chancery.\n\nIn Catholicism, the vicar-general was originally called the \"official\" (\"officialis\").\n\nThe title of official principal, together with that of vicar-general, has in Anglicanism been merged in that of Diocesan chancellor of a diocese.\n\nIn sports, the term official is used to describe a person enforcing playing rules in the capacity of a linesman, referee and umpire; also specified by the discipline, e.g. American football official, ice hockey official.\n\nThe term \"officer\" is close to being a synonym (but has more military connotations). A functionary is someone who carries out a particular role within an organization; this again is quite a close synonym for official, as a noun, but with connotations closer to bureaucrat. Any such person acts in their official capacity, in carrying out the duties of their office; they are also said to officiate, for example in a ceremony. A public official is an official of central or local government.\n\nMax Weber gave as definition of a bureaucratic official:\n\nAn official must exercise their judgment and their skills, but their duty is to place these at the service of a higher authority; ultimately they are responsible only for the impartial execution of assigned tasks and must sacrifice their personal judgment if it runs counter to their official duties.\n\nAs an adjective, \"official\" often, but not always, means pertaining to the government, as state employee or having state recognition, or analogous to governance or to a formal (especially legally regulated) proceeding as opposed to informal business. Some examples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23110654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23110654", "title": "Open Communities", "text": "Open Communities\n\nOpen Communities (formerly Interfaith Housing Center of the Northern Suburbs) is a nonprofit organization that advocates for fair and affordable housing in 17 northern suburbs of Chicago. Open Communities' mission is to educate, advocate and organize to promote just and inclusive communities in north suburban Chicago. Open Communities works with current and prospective residents and local groups to promote economically and culturally diverse communities. Free services include fair and affordable housing counseling services, community education, advocacy, and organizing for welcoming communities.\n\nOpen Communities has its roots in the civil rights movement of the 1960s. A group of young mothers in Wilmette were worried that their children were growing up in a community that lacked diversity, and they began to discuss how they could organize for change. There were no fair housing laws at that time, and housing discrimination was common. But although local housing ads often stipulated, \"No Negroes, Orientals or Jews,\" the women, joined by local clergy, believed that many community members shared their concerns about housing discrimination. \n\nIn 1972, a fair housing conference organized by local clergy in 1972 resulted in the creation of the North Shore Interfaith Housing Council, which became the North Suburban Housing Center in 1977, then Interfaith Housing Center of the Northern Suburbs in 1986, and Open Communities in 2012.\n\nOpen Communities helps individuals who report illegal housing discrimination, predominantly the Civil Rights Act of 1968, which makes denying housing to anyone on the basis of their race, color, national origin illegal. Additionally, the law protects those with disabilities, as well as families with children. Open Communities is an operating member of the National Fair Housing Alliance.\n\nIn addition to pursuing individual cases, Open Communities works to settle cases for building that systemically discriminate against seniors or people with disabilities.\n\nThe Homesharing program is a free service which matches renters with residents in need of additional income, or who desire assistance with housekeeping chores. It often benefits residents at risk of foreclosure as well as the elderly and individuals with disabilities. The program has been lauded by the Retirement Research Foundation, and has received positive press in Chicago's northern suburbs. As of June, 2015, the program had facilitated over 700 matches in the North Shore and Chicago.\n\nBoth landlords and tenants have rights and responsibilities toward one another, their neighbors and their homes. Landlords’ and tenants’ rights are protected under state and local laws, which establish requirements about security deposits, heating, property maintenance, entry, and eviction.\n\nThe foreclosure crisis is one of the nation’s most pressing housing issues, and Illinois continues to have one of the highest rates of foreclosure fillings. The crisis has been particularly hard on immigrants, people of color, and lower-income families who became north suburban homeowners in the last two decades.\nMore than 14,500 homes were foreclosed in Chicago’s northern suburbs between 2005 and 2013, according to an Open Communities’ analysis of Woodstock Institute foreclosure filings data.\n\nAt Open Communities, we were founded on the belief that making housing available to people of all incomes and backgrounds makes the northern suburbs a better place to live. That’s why we collaborate with and build local and regional coalitions to advance fair and affordable housing programs, policies and legislation, and provide support for bricks-and-mortar housing developments that meet a wide range of local needs. In 2016, Open Communities joined the #Fightfor15.\n\nLaunched in 2015 to not only commemorate Dr. King's visit to Winnetka in 1965, but to challenge our community to become even more welcoming, The Justice Project: The March Continues is a grassroots social justice movement to inspire the communities in the northern suburbs of Chicago and beyond to be welcoming, inclusive and diverse, and to offer them a framework for doing so.\nDozens of community groups, led by Open Communities and Jewish Voice for Peace, stand against the many ways in which anti-Muslim and xenophobic hatred manifests itself, including hate speech and hate crimes; institutionalized racism and state-sanctioned violence; racial and religious profiling in all its forms; and prejudice that targets refugees and immigrants of all backgrounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "25296945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25296945", "title": "Peace Museum, Bradford", "text": "Peace Museum, Bradford\n\nThe Peace Museum, Bradford is the only museum dedicated to the history and (often untold) stories of peace, peacemakers and peace movements, in the UK.\nThe Peace Museum aims to engage, inform and inspire through: items in its collection and exhibitions of learning and education activities for all sectors of the community, schools, colleges and universities, focusing on local, national and international people, events and stories posing questions about equality, diversity, cohesion, peace and non-violence\ntelling stories of peacemakers and peacemaking.\n\nThe museum asks visitors to consider peace and peacemaking as an active, as opposed to passive endeavour, a challenge and something that requires effort, asking \"What could you do?\" What story will you tell\".\n\nThe initial idea of creating a peace museum arose in the mid–1980s from Gerald Drewett of the Give Peace a Chance Trust. In 1990 this was carried forward when Shireen Shah, an MA student at Bradford University’s Peace Studies Department, wrote a dissertation proposing a ‘Museum for Peace’. Two years on, the International Network of Museums for Peace held its first conference at the University of Bradford in 1992, during which it was proposed that a Peace Museum be established in Bradford. A committee was established to seek finance and general support for the idea. Initially called ‘The National Peace Museum Project’, the Museum was established in 1994 through a five-year grant from the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Foundation and operated from a temporary site in Bradford in the Wool Exchange. In 1998 the Museum moved to its present site on the top floor of 10 Piece Hall Yard, in Bradford city centre.\n\nThe Museum has a varied temporary exhibition programme, hosting several exhibitions and displays throughout the year. Past exhibitions have ranged from 'Challenging the Fabric of Society' showcasing the protest banners that are part of its textile collection (until March 2017), 'Remembering the Kindertransport' to commemorate Holocaust Memorial Day (until April 2017) and 'A force for peace? The History of European Cooperation' (ended 2016) exploring the peace history behind the European Union. \n"}
{"id": "23619304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23619304", "title": "Peanut poundage quota", "text": "Peanut poundage quota\n\nPoundage quotas were authorized by the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, so the peanut poundage quota was the supply control mechanism for the peanut price support program until its revision in the 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107-171, Sec. 1301-1310).\n\nThe 1996 farm bill (P.L. 104-127) required that (for the 1996-2002 crops) the poundage quota be set equal to projected food demand and related uses. The national quota was allocated among states based on historical shares, and then divided among farms based on production history. Owners (via inheritance or purchase) of quota were allowed to sell peanuts produced against their quota, or sell, lease and transfer their quota to other producers. Peanuts marketed above the quota limits (called additional peanuts) had to be crushed for non-edible uses or exported.\n\nThe 2002 farm bill eliminated peanut quotas and the two-tiered pricing structure and replaced this with a support program comparable to that for so-called covered commodities -- such as wheat, feedgrains, cotton, and rice—as well as with buy-out funding.\n"}
{"id": "2014815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014815", "title": "Primera Junta", "text": "Primera Junta\n\nThe Primera Junta or First Assembly is the most common name given to the first independent government of Argentina. It was created on 25 May 1810, as a result of the events of the May Revolution. The Junta initially had representatives from only Buenos Aires. When it was expanded, as expected, with the addition of the representatives from the other cities of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, it became popularly known instead as the Junta Grande (\"Grand Council\"). The Junta operated at \"El Fuerte\" (\"the fort\", where the modern Casa Rosada stands), which had been used since 1776 as a residence by the Viceroys.\n\nThis Junta—officially named the \"Junta Provisional Gubernativa de las Provincias del Río de la Plata a nombre del Señor Don Fernando VII\" (Provisional Governing Junta of the Provinces of Río de la Plata in the Name of Señor Don Ferdinand VII)—allegedly meant to govern in the name of the King of Spain, while he was imprisoned by Napoleon Bonaparte. Juntas were a form of transitional or emergency government, which attempted to maintain Spanish sovereignty, that emerged during the Napoleonic invasion in Spanish cities that had not succumbed to the French. The most important for Spanish America was the Junta of Seville, which claimed sovereignty over the overseas possessions, given the fact that the province of Seville historically had enjoyed exclusive rights to the American trade. Its claims had been rejected by Spanish Americans, and its authority was quickly superseded by a Supreme Central Junta of Spain, which included American representation.\n\nWhen the Supreme Central Junta abolished itself in 1810, the politically active inhabitants of Buenos Aires saw no better moment than this to establish a local government. They had been influenced by the recent democratic and republican philosophical wave, and were also concerned about the commercial monopoly exerted by the Spanish crown, which was suffocating the local economy. Historically Buenos Aires province had partially mitigated this problem through contraband. Local politicians, such as former council member and legal advisor to the viceroy, Juan José Castelli, who wanted a change towards self-government and free commerce, cited traditional Spanish political theory and argued that the King being imprisoned, sovereignty had returned to the people. The people were to assume the government until the King returned, just as the subjects in Spain had done two years earlier with the establishment of juntas. The Viceroy and his supporters countered that the colonies belonged to Spain and did not have a political relationship with only the King. Therefore, they should follow any governmental body established in Spain as the legal authority, namely the Supreme Central Junta of Spain and its successor, the Council of Regency.\n\nThe meeting of a Buenos Aires \"cabildo abierto\" (an extraordinary meeting of the municipal council with assistance of over 200 notables from government, the church, guilds and other corporations) during 22 May 1810, came under strong pressure from the militias and a crowd that formed in front of the \"cabildo\" hall on the Plaza Mayor (today the Plaza de Mayo), up to 25 May. The crowd favored the stance of the local politicians, and the \"cabildo\" ended up creating the Primera Junta, the first form of local government in the territory that would later become Argentina. Spain would never recover its dominion over that territory. From the very beginning of the new government, two factions manifested their differences, a more radical one, whose visible leader was the Junta's Secretary, Mariano Moreno, and the conservative wing that supported the Junta's President, Cornelio Saavedra.\n\nIn general the principles of the May Revolution were popular sovereignty, the principle of representation and federalization, division of powers, the maintenance of the mandates, and publication of the government's actions\n\nPresident\n\nSecretaries:\n\nCommittee member\n\nDespite the replacement of Cisneros, the Royal Audience and the Cabildo stood with the authorities that existed before the revolution, who opposed the Junta since its first day. The Audience refused at first to swear allegiance to the Junta, and when they finally did, prosecutor Caspe did so with clear gestures of contempt. Caspe would be later ambushed near his home, in retaliation for this. The Cabildo imposed a time limit on the Junta: if the General Congress was not formed in six months, the Cabildo would reassume government. The Junta answered the same day, rejecting such requirements. The Audience then requested that the Junta submitted to the Regency Counsel, but the Junta refused, on the grounds that Cisneros did not so submit and the Audience did not request him to. The Audience itself swore allegiance to the Counsel shortly after, and they were all banished in response. Together with the ex-viceroy Cisneros, they were forced to take the ship \"Dart\" that left them at the Canary Islands; the exceptions were Márquez del Plata, who was at the Banda Oriental at the time, and the octogenarian Lucas Muñoz Cubero.\n\nFrom the early days of the Primera Junta there was a strong rivalry between Saavedra and Moreno. According to Ignacio Núñez, the Morenists accused Saavedra of plotting to restore the tyranny of the viceroys in his office, while the Saavedrists accused Moreno of usurping government roles that were not intended for him. Matheu would also point in his memories that the Morenists were upset because they perceived that Saavedra enjoyed receiving honors and distinctions that they had chosen to avoid.\n\nThe Junta was received with mixed reactions from the other cities of the viceroyalty. Santa Fe, Entre Ríos, Misiones, Corrientes and Mendoza supported the change, others did not. Upper Peru, which greatly benefited from the system of mita to exploit the mines in Potosi, supported the absolutist system for a long time. Javier De Elío in Montevideo denied recognition to the Junta. Paraguay was torn between supporters of either side, but royalists prevailed. However, the most immediate danger to the Junta came from Cordoba, where Santiago de Liniers came out of his retirement and started to organize an army to lead a counter-revolution against Buenos Aires. The Junta ordered Ortiz de Ocampo to stand against those counter-revolutionaries and bring the leaders as prisoners to Buenos Aires. A later ruling requested instead to execute them, but after defeating Liniers, Ortiz de Ocampo decided to ignore the latter and instead to follow the first ruling. The Junta removed Ocampo from his duty for this act of disobedience, and replaced him with Juan José Castelli. Castelli ordered the execution of the counter-revolutionaries by August, 26, with the exception of the priest Orellana. By this time, Mariano Moreno was popularly regarded as the leader of the revolution, whose resolution permitted the radical changes to the absolutist system that the Junta had managed so far.\n\nThere's some controversy among historians about the authenticity of the Operations plan, a secret document attributed to Mariano Moreno, that set a harsh government policy in the fields of economics, politics and international relations.\n\nMilitary authorities, fearing the loss of power by Saavedra, pressured the Junta to control Moreno. Moreno, on the other hand, succeeded in getting the approval of decrees that limited Saavedra and others. By December 1810 tension had reached its peak. Saavedra got the support of deputies sent by the interior provinces that had not yet been allowed to join the Junta. With this backing, Saavedra gave Moreno his most serious political setback: he forced Moreno to present his resignation on 18 December. With this resignation, the integration of the deputies from the other provinces to the Junta became possible.\n\nCreated on 25 May 1810, the Primera Junta was thus transformed on 18 December of the same year into the new Junta Grande by the introduction of representatives from other provinces of Río de la Plata.\n\nThe Primera Junta was concerned with the risk of Portuguese expansionism towards La Plata, either directly or through the Carlotist project. The diplomacy in Spain attempted to prevent the dispatch of a punitive army, limiting the armed conflicts to the royalists in Paraguay, the Upper Peru and the Banda Oriental. The Junta declared itself a natural ally of any city that revolts against the royalists; either those that did so in support of the May Revolution or those who revolted on their own (Chile, and Paraguay shortly after Belgrano's defeat).\n\nBritain, allied with Spain in the Napoleonic Wars, stayed neutral in the conflicts between patriots and royalists. Nevertheless, the British policy towards the conflict was to favour British trade as long as it did not conflict with the neutral policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "17137640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17137640", "title": "Project O Canada", "text": "Project O Canada\n\nFounded in 2001, Project O Canada was a Toronto-based anti-terrorism investigation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Created in response to the September 11, 2001 attacks, subdivisions of the project named \"A-O Canada\" and \"C-O Canada\" were based in Ottawa and Montreal, RCMP Divisions A and C respectively. By December 2001, the RCMP was shifting its focus from gathering intelligence, to seeking information \"in a manner suitable for court purposes\".\n\nIt was later criticised for bringing together forty members from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's (RCMP) \"Commercial Crimes\", \"IPOC\", and \"National Security Investigations\" branches, Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), Customs and Revenue Agency, Canada Border Services Agency, the Quebec and Ontario provincial police, and local officers from Hull, Gatineau and Ottawa. The team was composed almost entirely of individuals with no knowledge of intelligence gathering, Islam, or human rights issues, and was simply told to cooperate fully with the American Federal Bureau of Investigation and Central Intelligence Agency, turning over all information without hesitation.\n\nThe project was ultimately found to have played a \"central role\" in the wrongful rendition and torture of Canadian citizens, including Maher Arar, who was tortured for ten months before being found innocent of the officers' claims that he was \"suspected of being linked to the Al Qaeda terrorist movement\".\n\nGrowing out of an earlier project begun in 1997, the 35-officer project initially focused on the actions and acquaintances of NGO-worker Ahmed Khadr, who was believed to be financially supporting Islamic militants in Afghanistan. \n\nThey also investigated claims from local residents that a man who resembled Mohamed Atta had worked part-time at the \"Best Copy\" copy shop in downtown Toronto, seizing the store's records and investigating its customers, adding a number of them to an Interpol database.\n\nBy October, the RCMP claimed to have identified 10-12 \"al-Qaida suspects\" in the city, and a month later reported they had \"undertaken 24-hour surveillance of at least five suspected supporters of Osama bin Laden.\"\n\nIn October 2001, the RCMP's Toronto office met with Ottawa officers in Newmarket, Ontario and requested they form a \"Project A-O\" division. Its first task was to help Toronto by taking over the investigation of the electronics store owner Abdullah Almalki, who had worked for Human Concern International at the same time as Khadr. Almalki had been under surveillance by the Canadian Security Intelligence Service since he first met with Khadr in 1998. \n\n\"Project C-O\" meanwhile put Abdelrahman, the younger brother of Mohamad Elzahabi working as a mechanic in Montreal, \"under a microscope\".\n\nOntario Provincial Police officers were also tasked to help the Federal police agency.\n\nThe Ottawa office, under the control of Cpl. Randal Walsh, Garry Clement and Supt. Mike Cabana, quickly moved from providing assistance to their Toronto colleagues, and began conducting their own investigations focusing primarily on Abdullah Almalki and Ahmad Abou El Maati. \n\nWhen Almalki met with telecommunications engineer Maher Arar at the \"Mango Cafe\" shawarma restaurant in Ottawa to discuss local doctors and printer cartridges, officers clandestinely acquired his 1997 lease agreement from Minto Developments Inc., and saw that he had listed Almalki as an emergency contact. He was subsequently placed under surveillance by \"Project A-O\", and his name added to a Canada Customs \"terrorist lookout list\", although it was later determined there was no evidence to support such an action. \n\nIn January 2002, Cpl. Randy Walsh received search warrants to raid seven homes, although later analysis suggested that if he had been honest about their evidence before the judge, the warrants would not have been granted. A publication ban initially prevented the media from reporting the identities of those targeted, although later reports confirmed which buildings had been searched. \n\n\nIn addition, while they lacked a warrant to search his house, officers visited Arar to discover he was overseas. When he returned, he agreed to discussions with a lawyer present, but the RCMP found the requirement too \"stringent\" and did not follow up.\n\nIn April 2002, \"Project A-O\" sent American officials their complete files without any limits on its use or \"regard for the rights of citizens\", leading to tension between RCMP headquarters and the anti-terrorism project. The Americans later used faxes detailing the sale of walkie talkies seized at Almalki's house in the raid as evidence in their trial against Mohamad Elzahabi.\n\nIn August, after Almalki was arrested in Syria - \"Project A-O\" officers wanted to send Syria information about him, as well as a list of questions that they wanted him to answer, stating that \"Depending on his willingness to answer truthfully and depending on the answers he provides you, a second series of questions has been prepared for him\". Sgt. Rick Flewelling, from the RCMP headquarters, intervened and insisted that the Department of Justice and Foreign Affairs would have to be involved \n\nIn September 2002, the A-O division began asking the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade (DFAIT) to help them secure the ability to travel to Syria to interrogate Almalki themselves, or at least direct how he would be interrogated by Syrians. When DFAIT officer Jonathan Solomon demanded to know whether they would be clear not to use torture, since it had already been used against Ahmed el-Maati, A-O Division officers \"got awkward\" and Cabana claimed that it was possible that el-Maati had just been lying about Syria using torture. Also in September, as Arar was en route to New York from Switzerland, \"Project A-O\" officers faxed a memo to Americans which involved a number of \"false claims\" about Arar, stating that he and his wife were \"Islamic\nExtremist individuals suspected of being linked to the Al Qaeda\nterrorist movement\". Arar was subsequently arrested and deported to Syria where he was tortured for ten months before being found innocent of any wrongdoing.\n\nThe project also sent officers to Pakistan in 2005, after it was announced that Khadr's son Abdullah had been arrested. Abdullah stated that when he was about 14 years old, his father had purchased two pairs of walkie talkies from Almalki, although his lawyers later argued the statement had been made due to his mistreatment by Pakistani officials.\n\nToronto Members\n\nOttawa Members\nAfter it was discovered that Canadian authorities had been complicit in the rendition and torture of an innocent Canadian, a Royal Commission was formed to investigate. \"Project A-O\" figured prominently in the explanation of Canada's anti-terrorism investigations, while attorney Don Bayne unsuccessfully argued that since the RCMP couldn't disclose \"full\" information due to national security concerns, it therefore shouldn't have to disclose \"any\" information about the project.\n\nThe Commission determined that the \"Project A-O\" officers \"lacked experience\nand training in conducting national security investigations\".\n\nRichard Proulx (RCMP officer)\n\nRef Note\n"}
{"id": "19283898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19283898", "title": "Security guard", "text": "Security guard\n\nA security guard (also known as a security inspector or protective agent) is a person employed by a public or private party to protect the employing party’s assets (property, people, equipment, money, etc.) from a variety of hazards (such as waste, damaged property, unsafe worker behavior, criminal activity such as theft, etc.) by enforcing preventative measures. Security guards do this by maintaining a high-visibility presence to deter illegal and inappropriate actions, looking (either directly, through patrols, or indirectly, by monitoring alarm systems or video surveillance cameras) for signs of crime or other hazards (such as a fire), taking action to minimize damage (such as warning and escorting trespassers off property), and reporting any incidents to their clients and emergency services (such as the police or paramedics), as appropriate.\n\nSecurity officers are generally uniformed to represent their lawful authority to protect private property. Security guards are generally governed by legal regulations, which set out the requirements for eligibility (e.g., a criminal record check) and the permitted authorities of a security guard in a given jurisdiction. The authorities permitted to security guards vary by country and subnational jurisdiction. Security officers are hired by a range of organizations, including businesses, government departments and agencies and not-for-profit organizations (e.g., churches and charitable organizations).\n\nUntil the 1980s, the term watchman was more commonly applied to this function, a usage dating back to at least the Middle Ages in Europe where there was no form of law enforcement (other than it being a private matter). This term was carried over to North America where it was interchangeable with night-watchman [e.g. security guard] until both terms were replaced with the modern security-based titles. Security officers are sometimes regarded as fulfilling a private policing function.\n\nMany security firms and proprietary security departments practice the \"detect, deter, observe and report\" methodology. Security officers are not required to make arrests, but have the authority to make a citizen's arrest, or otherwise act as an agent of law enforcement, for example, at the request of a police officer or sheriff.\n\nA private security officer's responsibility is protecting their client from a variety of hazards (usually in the form of criminal acts). Security personnel enforce company rules and can act to protect lives and property, and they often have a contractual obligation to provide these actions. In addition to basic deterrence, security officers are often trained to perform specialized tasks such as arrest and control (including handcuffing and restraints), operate emergency equipment, perform first aid, CPR, take accurate notes, write detailed reports, and perform other tasks as required by the client they are serving. All security officers are also required to go through additional training mandated by the state for the carrying of weapons such as batons, firearms, and pepper spray (e.g. the Bureau of Security and Investigative Services in California has requirements that a license for \"each\" item listed must be carried while on duty). Some officers are required to complete police certification for special duties. Virginia training standards for security are identical to police training with regards to firearms (shotgun and handgun) but do not place licensing requirements for other items carried, only that training be provided that is documented. Several security companies have also become certified in RADAR and trained their sworn special police officers to use it on protected properties in conjunction with lights/sirens, allowing them to legally enforce traffic laws on private property.\n\nThe number of jobs is expected to grow in the U.S., with 175,000 new security jobs expected before 2016. In recent years, due to elevated threats of terrorism, most security officers are required to have bomb-threat training and/or emergency crisis training, especially those located in soft target areas such as shopping malls, schools, and any other area where the general public congregate. One major economic justification for security personnel is that insurance companies (particularly fire insurance carriers) will give substantial rate discounts to sites which have a 24-hour presence. For a high risk or high value property, the discount can often exceed the money being spent on its security program. Discounts are offered because having security on site increases the odds that any fire will be noticed and reported to the local fire department before a total loss occurs. Also, the presence of security officers (particularly in combination with effective security procedures) tends to diminish \"shrinkage\", theft, employee misconduct and safety rule violations, property damage, or even sabotage. Many casinos hire security officers to protect money when transferring it from the casino to the casino's bank.\n\nSecurity personnel may also perform access control at building entrances and vehicle gates; meaning, they ensure that employees and visitors display proper passes or identification before entering the facility. Security officers are called upon to respond to potential hazards (such as broken lights or doors, disturbances, lost persons, minor injuries, etc.) and to assist in serious emergencies (medicals, fires, crime, etc.) by securing the scene to prevent further loss or damage, summoning emergency responders to the incident, helping to redirect foot traffic to safe locations, and by documenting what happened on an incident report to give their client an idea of how to prevent similar situations from occurring. Armed security officers are frequently contracted to respond as law enforcement until a given situation at a client location is under control and/or public authorities arrive on the scene.\n\nPatrolling is usually a large part of a security officer's duties, as most incidents are prevented by being looked for instead of waiting for them to occur. Often these patrols are logged by use of a guard tour patrol system, which require regular patrols. Until recently the most commonly used form used to be mechanical clock systems that required a key for manual punching of a number to a strip of paper inside with the time pre-printed on it. But recently, electronic systems have risen in popularity due to their light weight, ease of use, and downloadable logging capabilities. Regular patrols are, however, becoming less accepted as an industry standard, as it provides predictability for the would-be criminal, as well as monotony for the security officer on duty. Random patrols are easily programmed into electronic systems, allowing greater freedom of movement and unpredictability. Global positioning systems are beginning to be used because they are a more effective means of tracking officers' movements and behavior.\n\nAlthough security officers differ from police officers, military personnel, federal agents/officers, and the like, Australia and the United States have a growing proportion of security personnel that have former police or military experience, including senior management personnel. On the other hand, some security officers, young people in particular, use the job as practical experience to use in applying to law enforcement agencies.\n\nSecurity personnel are classified as one of the following:\n\n\nIndustry terms for security personnel include: security guard, security officer, security agent, safety patrol, private police, company police, security enforcement officer, and public safety. Terms for specialized jobs include bouncer, bodyguards, executive protection agent, loss prevention, alarm responder, hospital security officer, mall security officer, crime prevention officer, patrolman, private patrol officer, and private patrol operator.\nState and local governments sometimes regulate the use of these terms by law—for example, certain words and phrases that \"give an impression that he or she is connected in any way with the federal government, a state government, or any political subdivision of a state government\" are forbidden for use by California security licensees by Business and Professions Code Section 7582.26. So the terms \"private homicide police\" or \"special agent\" would be unlawful for a security licensee to use in California. Similarly, in Canada, various acts specifically prohibits private security personnel from using the terms \"Probation Officer\", \"law enforcement\", \"police\", or \"police officer\".\n\nAlberta and Ontario prohibit the use of the term \"Security Officer\", which has been in widespread use in the United States for many decades. Recent changes to the act have also introduced restrictions on uniform and vehicle colours and markings to make private security personnel clearly distinctive from police personnel. Some sources feel that some of these restrictions are put in place to satisfy the Canadian Police Association. Specialized VIP security guard services and companies are in high demand and are defined by their ability to protect celebrities and executives during times of unrest. There is a marked difference between persons performing the duties historically associated with watchmen and persons who take a more active role in protecting persons and property. The former, often called \"guards\", are taught the mantra \"observe and report\", are minimally trained, and not expected to deal with the public or confront criminals.\n\nThe latter are often highly trained, sometimes armed depending on contracts agreed upon with clientele, and are more likely to interact with the general public and to confront the criminal element. These employees tend to take pride in the title \"Security Officer\" or \"Protection Officer\" and disdain the label of \"guard\". Security jobs vary in pay and duties. There is sometimes little relationship between duties performed and compensation, for example some mall \"security officers\" who are exposed to serious risks earn less per hour than \"industrial security guards\" who have less training and responsibility. However, there are now more positions in the security role that separate not just the titles, but the job itself. The roles have progressed and so have the areas for which security people are needed. The term \"agent\" can be confusing in the security industry because it can describe a civil legal relationship between an employee and their employer or contractor (\"agent of the owner\" in California PC 602), and also can describe a person in government service (\"Special Agent Jones of the Federal Bureau of Investigation\".) The title \"agent\" can be confused with bail enforcement agents, also known as \"bounty hunters\", who are sometimes regulated by the same agencies which regulate private security. The term \"agent\" is also used in other industries, such as banking agents, loan agents and real estate agents. Security agents are often employed in loss prevention and personal or executive protection (bodyguards) roles. They typically work in plainclothes (without a uniform), and are usually highly trained to act lawfully in direct defense of life or property.\n\nSecurity officers are private citizens, and therefore are bound by the same laws and regulations as the citizenry they are contracted to serve, and therefore are not allowed to represent themselves as law enforcement under penalty of law.\n\nJust as with the police profession, training requirements for the private security industry have evolved over time. For many years security officers were poorly chosen and poorly trained (if at all), partly because security companies who contracted with clients in private industry were paid very little for their security services. For the most part, contracts were awarded to security officer companies through a competition process and the final selection was often made based on cost rather than the experience or professionalism of the security guard company. That changed drastically on September 11, 2001 when radical terrorists attacked the United States. The event moved corporate threat concerns to the top of the priority list for most security guard contracts started being awarded based on professionalism. More money was invested in security so more money became available for training of security guards. The term 'security professional' began to surface and large private security companies like Blackwater, USA began offering training services for the private security industry that approached the level of training provided by the military. Security companies began paying enough to attract people with significant backgrounds in law enforcement and the military, often in special operations.\n\nAny person who conducts a business or is employed in a security-related field within Australia is required to be licensed. Each of the six states and two territories of Australia have separate legislation that covers all security activities. Licensing management in each state/territory is varied and is carried out by either Police, Attorney General's Department, Justice Department or the Department of Consumer Affairs.\nAll of this legislation was intended to enhance the integrity of the private security industry.\n\nAll persons licensed to perform security activities are required to undertake a course of professional development in associated streams that are recognised nationally. This has not always been the case and the introduction of this requirement is expected to regulate the educational standards and knowledge base so that the particular job can be competently performed. Strict requirements are laid down as to the type of uniform and badge used by security companies. Uniforms or badges that may be confused with a police officer are prohibited. Also, the use of the titles 'Security Police' or 'Private Detective' are unacceptable. While the term security guard is used by companies, government bodies and individuals, the term security officer is deemed more suitable. Bouncers use the title Crowd Controllers, and Store Detectives use the title Loss Prevention or Asset Protection Officers. Security Officers may carry firearms, handcuffs or batons where their role requires them to do so and then only when working and have the appropriate sub-class accreditation to their license.\n\nIn Canada, private security falls under the jurisdiction of Canada's ten provinces and three territories. All ten of Canada's provinces and one of its territories (the Yukon) have legislation that regulates the contract security industry. These eleven jurisdictions require that companies that provide security guard services and their employees be licensed. Most provinces in Canada regulate the use of handcuffs and weapons (such as firearms and batons) by contract security companies and their employees, either banning such use completely or permitting it only under certain circumstances. Additionally, in some provinces, some terms, or variations of them, are prohibited either on a uniform or in self-reference.\n\nCanada's federal laws also restrict the ability of security officers to be armed. For example, section 17 of the Firearms Act makes it an offense for any person, including a security officer, to possess prohibited or restricted firearms (i.e. handguns) anywhere outside of his or her home. There are two exceptions to this prohibition found in sections 18 and 19 of the Act. Section 18 deals with transportation of firearms while Section 19 deals with allowing persons to carry such firearms on their persons to protect their lives or the lives of other persons, or for the performance of their occupation (Armour Car Guards, Licensed Trappers), provided an Authorization to Carry (ATC) is first obtained.\n\nPrivate security in the province of British Columbia is governed by two pieces of legislation: the Security Services Act and the \"Security Services Regulation\". These laws are administered and enforced by the Security Programs and Police Technology Division of the Ministry of Public Safety and Solicitor General. The legislation requires that guards must be at least 19 years old, undergo a criminal background check, and successfully complete a training course. As far as weapons, British Columbia law severely restricts their use by security officers. Section 11(1)(c) of the Security Services Regulation prohibits security personnel from carrying or using any \"item designed for debilitating or controlling a person or animal\", which the government interprets to include all weapons. As well, section 11 forbids private security from using or carrying restraints, such as handcuffs, unless authorized by the government. However, as in other parts of Canada, armoured car officers are permitted to carry firearms. In the past, only personnel that worked for contract security, that is, security companies, were regulated in British Columbia. However, as of September 1, 2009, in-house security officers and private investigators came under the jurisdiction of the Security Services Act and Security Services Regulation. Bodyguards and bouncers, effective November 1, 2009, are also subject to these regulations.\n\nArmed private security officers are much rarer in Europe, and illegal in many countries, such as the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. In developing countries (with host country permission), an armed security force composed mostly of ex-military personnel is often used to protect corporate assets, particularly in war-torn regions.\n\nAs a requirement of the Private Security Industry Act 2001, the UK now requires all contract security officers to have a valid Security Industry Authority license. The licence must be displayed when on duty, although a dispensation may be granted for store detectives, bodyguards and others who need to operate without being identified as a security guard. This dispensation is not available to Vehicle Immobilisers. Licenses are valid for three years and require the holders to undergo formal training, and are also to pass mandatory Criminal Records Bureau checks. Licences for Vehicle Immobilisers are valid for one year. Armed guarding and guarding with a weapon are illegal.\n\nIn Finland, all contract security officers are required to have a valid license granted by police. Temporary license is valid for four months and normal license for five years. License requires a minimum 40-hour course for temporary license and 80 hours more for a normal license. Additionally a narrow security vetting is required. The 40-hour course does not allow the guard to carry any kind of special equipment such as a baton or handcuffs. Guards have to complete the 80-hour course to carry these. Separate training and license is required for the security guard to carry pepper spray, extendable baton or a firearm. Rehearse of weapons usage is mandatory every year and is regulated by the Ministry of The Interior, to ensure the safe handling of pepper spray and such. Firearms can only be carried by bodyguards and cash-in-transit guards or when guarding a person or object that is significant in terms of public interest. In Finland, a security guard has the right to detain a person \"red-handed\", or seen committing a crime and the right to search the detained individual for harmful items and weapons. An individual who has been forcefully detained can only be released by the police. All companies providing security guarding services are also required to have a valid license from the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nIn the Netherlands, security officers (beveiligingsbeambte) must undergo a criminal background check by the local police department in the area where the private security company is located. To become a security guard in the Netherlands, a person must complete the basic training level 2 Beveiliger2. To complete the training a trainee must undergo a three-month internship with a private security company that is licensed by the svpb, the board that controls security exams. A trainee guard must pass for his diploma within one year. If the trainee does not pass he is not allowed to work anymore until he completes his training with a positive result. After a positive result a new ID can be issued and is valid for three years, after which the officer must undergo a background check by the local police again. Security officers in the Netherlands are not allowed to carry any kind of weapon or handcuffs. Every uniformed security guard in the Netherlands must have the V symbol on his or her uniform to advise the public they are dealing with a private guard; this rule is mandated by the Ministry of Justice. Security uniforms may not look like similar to police uniforms, and may not contain any kind of rank designation. The colors yellow and gold are not allowed to be used because the Dutch police uses gold accents in their uniforms; also, wearing a uniform cap is not allowed. Every new uniform design or addition must be approved by the Ministry of Justice before use. A patrol vehicle may not look like a police striped vehicle. The only private security officers who are allowed to carry firearms are those who work for the military or Dutch National bank (De Nederlandsche Bank); this is where the national gold reserve can be found.\n\nIn Norway security officers are called \"Vektere\". There are two different types of vekterethe normal uniformed or civil-clothing officers who watch over private and semi-public properties, and government-hired vektere who work in public places, such as the Parliament. The law provides more enforcement powers to security officers in the Parliament than to private security officers. Security officers must undergo three weeks of training and internship. They are allowed to work for six months after one week of the introduction course. It is also possible to choose Security as a high school major, which requires two years of school and two years of trainee positions at private companies, resulting in a certificate from the government. This certificate makes it easier to get a job, with slightly higher pay. It also makes it easier to get a job elsewhere in the security industry. The certificate can also be obtained by private security officers who have had a minimum of 5 years working experience. No security officer may carry pepper spray, batons or any other kind of weapon. However, handcuffs may be used. Norges Bank (Bank of Norway, federal reserves) had armed government guards until late 2013, when they were disarmed by the minister of finance. Security officers serving on ships sailing in areas of high piracy risk may be equipped with firearms. Uniforms should not resemble police worn attire, but some uniforms do. The uniform must have the text 'VEKTER' or 'SIKKERHET' above the left shirt pocket.\n\nA security officer, or any other person, may detain or arrest anyone that violates any law, as long as the violation carries a punishment of minimum six (6) months imprisonment and a fine. The detainee must be released or handed over to the authorities within 4 hours of the arrest. Security officers assigned to public transportation, such as trains, subways, trams and buses, also have some powers under the Transportloven (transportation law). Security officers may issue fixed penalty tickets for violation of parking regulations in designated areas and for passengers on public transportation without a valid pass. A security officer may only search (frisk) a person to prevent the use of or confiscate any type of weapon or anything that can be used as a weapon. In 2006, some security officers (Vakt Service/Nokas) were given extended training and limited police authority to transport prisoners between police holding cells, jails and courts, etc. Due to an outcry from the police union, this program was scrapped after a few months.\n\nIn addition to normal \"vektere\" there also is a special branch for \"Ordensvakter\" who normally work as bouncers or security at concerts and similar types of events. Ordensvakter have to undergo an extra week of training to learn techniques on how to handle drunk people and people on various drugs. They also learn about the alcohol laws of Norway (which are rather strict). The police in the local police district must approve each Ordensvakt. These special regulations arose after events in the 1990s when bouncers had a bad reputation, especially in Oslo, for being too brutal and rough with people. At that time, the police had no control over who worked as bouncers. After the government implemented training and mandatory police-issued ID cards for bouncers the problems have been reduced. The police of Oslo report that Ordensvakter are now helping the police identify crimes that otherwise would not be reported. In 2013, due to a high number of rapes and violent robberies, the city of Oslo (Oslo Kommune) hired a private security company (Metro Garda) to patrol the downtown immigrant areas. This patrol had a positive effect, and the city has, in addition to Metro Garda officers, now hired their own officers called Bymiljøetaten (City environment dep). The municipalities in Norway are not allowed to form their own \"police\". The only police force in Norway is the federal police (politi).\n\nIn 2007, several officers from the Securitas AB company were arrested for brutality against a robber they apprehended on the main street of Oslo. The crime was captured with a mobile camera by pedestrians and created a public outcry, with many objecting to the way the security guards took the law into their own hands. Later, it came to light that the thief first attacked the security guards when they approached him, so the brutality charges were dropped. As a result of this episode, the police said that they would be more careful when conducting criminal background checks for security guards. Before 2007 security guards were checked when they applied for a job, but not while they were working. Security companies were also criticized for not checking criminal records sufficiently, in some cases not at all. Now guards working in private security must be checked annually. The police have the authority to withdraw a company's licence if the company does not submit lists of employees to the police. The police in Norway were widely criticized for not checking guards properly, and even when they encounter an issue with a guard, the guard can still work for months before anything is done. The security company G4S, after being criticized by police for hiring criminals, stated that they cannot do anything about the problem, because only the police have the ability to check the guard's criminal records.\n\nIn 2012, Norwegian media reported that off-duty police officers and Home Guard soldiers had contracts of armed employment on civilian ships in the Aden bay, and police leaders were planning sanctions against the use of police officers. Today there are around 15,000 people working in private security in Norway. The police have around 10,000 employees in total.\n\nNotable companies operating in Norway:\n\n\nIn Hong Kong, the term \"Security Officer\" refers to a senior staff member who supervises a team of security personnel. The staff who work under security officers' supervision are called\n\"Security Guards\".\n\nBefore 1 October 1996, private security personnel were regulated by the \"Watchmen Ordinance\" (Chapter 299). However, there were many problems with that system of regulation—for example, there were no restrictions as to whom may establish private security service companies to provide security services to a client. Also, there was no regulation of people whom may perform installation of security systems. Some employers hired \"caretakers\" instead of security guards to avoid their responsibilities under the ordinance (in formal definition, \"caretakers\" are supposed to provide facilities management service, although security service, which provided to residential properties, takes some parts of facilities management service). As a result, the Hong Kong Government enacted a wholly new law, the \"Security and Guarding Services Ordinance\" (Chapter 460), to replace the \"Watchmen Ordinance\".\n\nAccording to the \"Security and Guarding Services Ordinance\":\nNo individual shall do, agree to do, or hold himself/herself out as doing, or as available to do, security work for another person unless he/she does so-\n\n\"Security work\" means any of the following activities-\n\n\"Security device\" means a device designed or adapted to be\ninstalled in any premises or place, except on or in a vehicle, for the purpose\nof detecting or recording- (Amended 25 of 2000 s. 2)\n\nQualification for security guards vary from country to country. Different requirements have to be completed before applying for this job.\n\nAny applicant who wishes to apply for a Security Personnel Permit (SPP) must:\n\nSecurity Personnel Permit was separated to four types: A, B, C, and D.\nThe permit is valid for five years. All holders must renew their permit before it expires, or they will lose their qualification to work, as such, until their permit is renewed.\n\nThe type A and Type B security service are gradually combined with property management service, though the boundary between these two industries is unclear.\n\nSecurity Guards in Hong Kong do not have special powers of arrest above that of the ordinary citizen, i.e. citizen's arrest, also known locally as the \"101 arrest power\". The Section 101 in the Criminal Procedure Ordinance addresses that arrest of an offender by a private citizen is allowed in certain circumstances if the offender is attempting an arrestable offense. Once arrested, the suspect must be delivered to a police office as soon as possible. An arrestable offence is defined as any crime carrying a sentence of more than 12 months imprisonment. No security personnel are allowed to search other person, nor are they allowed to get personal information from other people, with the exception of some specific circumstances.\n\nIn Israel, almost all security guards carry a firearm, primarily to prevent terror attacks. Security guards are common: they perform entrance checks at shopping malls, transportation terminals, government and other office buildings, and many stores. Many locations with a high number of visitors, such as the Jerusalem Central Bus Station, employ X-ray machines to check passenger's bags; in other places, they are opened and visually inspected. Since 2009, private security guards companies as Mikud have also replaced official security forces at some checkpoints inside and on the border of the West Bank, as well as the crossings to Gaza.\n\nThe private security industry is regulated by the Ministry of Home Affairs (Kementerian Dalam Negeri). As of 2018, all private security companies in Malaysia must have a minimum of 80% of their employees complete a Certified Security Guard Training Course in order to receive approval to renew their Private Agency License. Peninsular Malaysia allows for the use of Nepalese security guards whereby East Malaysian immigration policy does not allow the use of foreign workers to be employed in the security industry.\n\nSecurity guards along with the rest of the private security industry are regulated under Act 56 of 2001, Private Security Industry Regulation Act.\n\nPrivate security guards have outnumbered police officers since the 1980s, predating the heightened concern about security brought on by the September 11, 2001, attacks. The more than 1 million contract security officers, and an equal number of guards estimated to work directly for U.S. corporations, is much greater than the nearly 700,000 sworn law enforcement officers in the United States. Most states require a license to work as a security officer. This license may include a criminal background check or mandated training requirements. Security guards have the same powers of arrest as a private citizen, called a \"private person\" arrest, \"any person\" arrest, or \"citizen's arrest\". If weapons are carried, additional permits and training are usually required. Armed security personnel are generally employed to protect sensitive sites such as government and military installations, armored money transports, casinos, banks and other financial institutions, and nuclear power plants. However, armed security is quickly becoming a standard for vehicle patrol officers and on many other non-government sites.\n\nIn some states, companies are developing technology to enhance private security. Using behavior analysis, computers can detect threats more quickly with fewer errors in judgement. Using specific algorithms, a computer can now detect aggressive and defensive body language, which triggers an alert to security or proper authorities depending on the event. These systems can also track slips and falls, theft and other events commonly experienced in corporate America. The responsibilities of security guards in the United States are expanding in scope. For example, a trend is the increasing use of private security to support services previously provided by police departments. James F. Pastor addresses substantive legal and public policy issues which directly or indirectly relate to the provision of security services. These can be demonstrated by the logic of alternative or supplemental service providers. The use of private police has particular appeal because property or business owners can directly contract for public safety services, thereby providing welcome relief for municipal budgets. Finally, private police functions can be flexible, depending upon the financial, organizational, political, and circumstances of the client.\n\nArizona — Licensed security companies are required to provide eight hours of pre-assignment training to all persons employed as security guards before the employee acts in the capacity of a security guard. There is a state-mandated curriculum that must be taught, and subjects covered must include criminal law and laws of arrest, uniforms and grooming, communications, use of force, general security procedures, crime scene preservation, ethics, and first response.\nCalifornia — Security Guards are required to obtain a license from the Bureau of Security and Investigative Services (BSIS), of the California Department of Consumer Affairs. Applicants must be at least 18 years old, undergo a criminal history background check through the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and complete a 40-hour course of required training. This required training is broken down into smaller training sections and time-lines. The first is 8 hours of BSIS-designed instruction on powers to arrest and weapons. Then, within 30 days of getting the individual officers license, they must receive 16 hours of training on various mandatory and elective courses. Finally, within 6 months of getting their license, they must receive an additional 16 hours of training on various mandatory and elective courses. California security officers are also required to complete 8 hours of annual training on security-related topics, in addition to the initial 40 hours of training. The training and exam may be administered by any private patrol operator or by any of a large number of certified training facilities. This training can be in the classroom or online.\n\nNew Jersey — As of 2006 all security personnel employed by a \"security officer company\" which provides security services to other entities by contract must undergo a state mandated certified training program. This law, commonly referred to as SORA, is the state's effort to increase the quality of security personnel. Security personnel employed by other types of businesses do not require the SORA certification card. However, those employed by the Atlantic City casinos are required to have the state issued \"Casino Employee Registration\" card.\n\nNew Mexico — As of 2008 all security guards must undergo FBI background checks and a certified training program. Guards who carry firearms must also undergo additional training with a firearm through an approved firearms instructor and pass a psychological exam. The security industry is regulated through the New Mexico Regulation and Licensing Division.\n\nNorth Carolina — Security Officers in North Carolina are required to register and become certified with the Private Protective Services Board (PPSB), the private security authority body under the North Carolina Department of Justice. The purpose of the Private Protective Services Board is to administer the licensing, education and training requirements for persons, firms, associations and corporations engaged in private protective services within North Carolina. The board is totally fee funded and is staffed by departmental employees directed on a daily basis by the Director, who is appointed by the Attorney General. There are two classifications for an officer: armed and unarmed. While an unarmed officer is required to take a 16-hour class of training and instruction to become certified, an armed officer must take additional hours of classroom training as well as qualify on a gun range with the firearm which will be carried on duty.\n\nOklahoma — Security officers in Oklahoma are licensed by CLEET (Council on Law Enforcement Education and Training). To be licensed as an unarmed officer an individual must be at least 18 years of age and undergo 40 hours of classroom training and pass criminal history checks. Armed guards must be 21 years of age, have another 40 hours of classroom training, qualify with their firearm and pass a psychological evaluation.\n\nOregon — Department of Public Safety, Standards and Training\n\nPennsylvania — No licensing requirements to be an unarmed security guard. However, anyone who carried a firearm or other \"lethal weapon\" in the course and scope of their employment must be trained as a \"Certified Agent\" and successfully complete a 40-hour training course (including shooting range time) in order to be certified to carry weapons while on duty under the Lethal Weapons Training Act (commonly referred to as Act 235 certification). Certification involves completing a medical physical exam, a psychological examination, classroom training and qualifying on a pistol range, with firing of 50 rounds of ammo larger than a .380acp. Agents are also required to qualify on a shotgun. The certification is good for five years at which time an eight-hour refresher course must be taken or the certification is revoked.\n\nSouth Carolina — All Security Officers have the same authority and power of arrest as Sheriff's Deputies, while on the property they are paid to protect, and according to Attorney General Alan Wilson, are considered Law Enforcement for the purpose of making arrests and swearing out a warrant before the magistrate. Private Officers may respond to calls for service, make arrests and use blue lights and traffic radar. They may also be specially authorized by the State Law Enforcement Division (SLED) to issue Uniform Traffic Tickets to violators. Security Officers are licensed or registered (as appropriate) by SLED for one year at a time. Training for unarmed officers is 8 hours, an additional 8 hours is required for a security weapons permit or a concealed security weapons permit. Additional hours are required to be documented for officers issuing public or private tickets as well as officers who will be using batons, pepper spray or tasers.\nVirginia — Since the 1980s, Security Officers in Virginia are required to be certified by DCJS (Department of Criminal Justice Services, the same agency that certifies law enforcement officers). To be certified as an unarmed security officer one must go through 18 hours of classroom training from a certified instructor in order to obtain this card and it must be done by the end of their 90 days after hire with a Security company. Every two years the card must be renewed, by completing an in-service with a certified instructor. To be certified as an armed security officer one must complete an additional 24 hours of firearms training, 8 hours of training in conducting a lawful arrest, and qualification with the type and caliber of weapon they intend to carry. Firearms endorsements must be renewed annually by completing an in-service and passing a firearms qualification. Certified armed security officers are authorized under state code to arrest for any offense committed in their presence while they are on duty at the location they are hired to protect. Unarmed officers have no arrest powers. They also are granted the authority by the state law to issue summons to appear in court for felonies and misdemeanors. Virginia also allows security officers to attend additional 40 hours of training to become certified as Conservators of the Peace (Special Police) for the company employing them. This appointment is performed by a Circuit Court Judge, wherein the officer is actually sworn in and has the powers of a police officer on property they are working, as well as the lawful duty to act upon witnessing any felony and the ability to pursue fleeing felons. Such sworn officers are also permitted the use of sirens and red lights. Those who handle K-9s, work as dispatchers, alarm responders, private investigators, instructors, bounty hunters, armored car couriers and Executive Protection Specialists are other categories of training regulated by DCJS with additional training requirements. All positions require State Police and FBI background checks.\n\nSt. Louis, Missouri — Security officers are required to be licensed by the St. Louis County Police Department or St. Louis Police Department. St. Louis County security officer training is a two-day class and yearly renewal class. Armed officers must shoot bi-annually to keep their armed status. County license is called a Metropolitan License, meaning it is good for St. Louis City and County. The St. Louis City web site has all the information regarding licensing requirements, as they are the same in the city and county.\n\nTexas — There are three types of Security Officer license types in the state of Texas. Each requires a certain level of training. All training and licensing is regulated by the Department of Public Safety's Private Security Bureau. The three types of licenses are\n\n\n\n\nNew Orleans, Louisiana - The City of New Orleans Department of Police in accordance with New Orleans Home Rule Charter section 4-502 (2) (a) (b) and New Orleans Municipal Code 17-271 MCS 90-86, deputizes armed Security Officers, Private Investigators, College Campus Police, City, State, and Federal agencies, within the city limits, with limited Police Power as New Orleans Police Special Officers. New Orleans Municipal Code 17-271 MCS 30-1122 states It shall be unlawful for any person to act as an armed guard unless he is a Peace Officer. Louisiana R.S. 40:1379.1 (b) states the Special Officer, when performing those tasks requiring a Special Officer's commission, shall have the same powers and duties as a Peace Officer. Special Officers may make arrest for felony or misdemeanor offenses on the property or area they are to protect, patrol, or in relation to their direct assignment. The Special Officer when making an arrest may pat down the arrested subject for weapons. Special Officers are to turn over arrested subjects and pertaining evidence to a New Orleans Police Officer. Special Officers or to honor all subpoenas on arrest made and appear in court to testify. Special Officers when not on a particular assignment are regarded as private citizens and have no Police Power. However, Special Officers still may make an arrest for a felony, whether in or out of his presence, while not on a particular assignment, under Louisiana Law CCRP art.214 Arrest by private person; when lawful.\n\nSecurity personnel are not police officers, unless they are security police, but are often identified as such due to similar uniforms and behaviors, especially on private property. Security personnel derive their powers from state or provincial laws, which allow them a contractual arrangement with clients that give them Agent of the Owner powers. This includes a nearly unlimited power to question with the absence of probable cause requirements that frequently dog public law enforcement officers. In essence, security officers keep private property / persons safe from hazards, whereas police officers protect entire communities by enforcing laws and arresting suspected offenders. Some jurisdictions do commission or deputize security officers and give them limited additional powers, particularly when employed in protecting public property such as mass transit stations. This is a special case that is often unique to a particular jurisdiction or locale. Additionally, security officers may also be called upon to act as an agent of law enforcement if a police officer, sheriff's deputy, etc. is in immediate need of help and has no available backup.\n\nSome security officers do have reserve police powers and are typically employed directly by governmental agencies. Typically, these are sworn law enforcement personnel whose duties primarily involve the security of a government installation, and are also a special case. Other local and state governments occasionally enter into special contracts with security agencies to provide patrol services in public areas. These personnel are sometimes referred to as \"private police officers\". Sometimes, police officers work as security personnel while not on duty. This is usually done for extra income, and work is particularly done in hazardous jobs such as bodyguard work and bouncers outside nightclubs. Police are called in when a situation warrants a higher degree of authority to act upon reported observations that security does not have the authority to act upon. However, some states allow Licensed Security Officers full arrest powers equal to those of a Sheriff's Deputy.\n\nIn 1976, the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration's National Advisory Commission on Criminal Justice Standards and Goals reported:\n\nOne massive resource, filled with significant numbers of personnel, armed with a wide array of technology, and directed by professionals who have spent their entire adult lifetimes learning how to prevent and reduce crime, has not been tapped by governments in the fight against criminality. The private security industry, with over one million workers, sophisticated alarm systems and perimeter safeguards, armored trucks, sophisticated mini-computers, and thousands of highly skilled crime prevention experts, offers a potential for coping with crime that can not be equalled by any other remedy or approach... Underutilized by police, all but ignored by prosecutors and the judiciary, and unknown to corrections officials, the private security professional may be the only person in this society who has the knowledge to effectively prevent crime. \n\nIn New York City, the Area Police/Private Security Liaison program was organized in 1986 by the NYPD commissioner and four former police chiefs working in the private security industry to promote mutual respect, cross-training, and sharing of crime-related information between public police and private security.\n\nPrivate Security personnel initially outnumbered police. From the Australian Bureau of Statistics Report in 2006 there were 52,768 full-time security officers in the security industry compared to 44,898 police officers. But since Security Industry Regulation Act 2007 it has dropped to less than half that.\n\nThe trend in the UK at the time of writing (March 2008) is one of polarisation. The market in Manned Guarding (the security industry term for the security guards most people are familiar with) is diverging toward two opposite extremes; one typified by a highly trained and well paid security officer; the other with security officers on or about minimum wage with only the minimum training required by law. Within the \"in-house\" sector, where security personnel are not subject to licensing under the Private Security Industry Act 2001, the same divergence can be seen, with some companies opting for in-house security to maintain control of their standards, while others use it as a route to cheaper, non-regulated, security. In a very few cases, such as the Northern Ireland Security Guard Service, security guards may be attested as Special Constables.\n\nEconomist Robert B. Reich, in his 1991 book \"The Work of Nations\", stated that in the United States, the number of private security guards and officers was comparable to the number of publicly paid police officers. He used this phenomenon as an example of the general withdrawal of the affluent from existing communities where governments provide public services. Instead, the wealthy pay to provide their own premium services, through voluntary, exclusive associations. As taxpayer resistance has limited government budgets, and as the demand for secure homes in gated communities has grown, these trends have continued in the 1990s and 2000s. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the trend in the US is one of a quiet transformation of the role of security guards into first responders in case of a terrorist attack or major disaster. This has resulted in longer guard instruction hours, extra training in terrorism tactics and increased laws governing private security companies in some states.\n\nThe \"vigiles\" were soldiers assigned to guard the city of Rome, often credited as the origin of both security personnel and police, although their principal duty was as a fire brigade. There have been night watchmen since at least the Middle Ages in Europe; walled cities of ancient times also had watchmen. A special chair appeared in Europe sometime in the late Middle Ages, called the watchman's chair; this unupholstered wooden chair had a forward slanting seat to prevent the watchman from dozing off during duty.\n\n\nMany security guards in Canada are unionized. The primary unions which represent security guards in Canada are the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), Local 333, and the Canadian branch of the United Steelworkers (USW). In contrast to the legal restrictions in the United States, Canadian labour relations boards will certify bargaining units of security guards for a Canadian Labour Congress (CLC)-affiliated union or in the same union with other classifications of employees.\n\nIn June 1947, the United States Congress passed the Taft-Hartley Act placing many restrictions on labor unions. Section 9 (B) (3) of the act prevents the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from certifying for collective bargaining any unit which mixes security employees with non-security employees. This restricts the ability of security employees to join any union that also represents other types of employees. They may be part of an independent, \"security-only\" union, not affiliated with any coalition of other types of labor unions such as the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO). A union which also represents non-security employees may also represent and bargain on behalf of security employees with the employer's consent. Two of the largest security unions are the Security, Police, and Fire Professionals of America(SPFPA) and the United Government Security Officers of America(UGSOA).\n\nIn 1948 with the Taft-Hartley restrictions well into effect, the Detroit, Michigan area security guards of United Auto Workers (UAW) Amalgamated Local 114 were forced to break away and start a separate \"Plant Guards Organizing Committee\". The NLRB ruled that as an affiliate of the CIO, the committee was indirectly affiliated with production unions and therefore ineligible for certification under the new restrictions. The committee was then forced to completely withdraw from the CIO and start the independent United Plant Guard Workers of America. By the 1990s, this union had evolved to include many other types of security officers and changed its name to the SPFPA.\n\nIn 1992, the UGSOA was formed. It specializes in organizing federal, state, and local government security officers, but since May, 2000 has been open to representing other types of security personnel as well.\n\nThe Service Employees International Union (SEIU) has also sought to represent security employees, although its efforts have been complicated by the Taft-Harley Act because the SEIU also represents janitors, trash collectors, and other building service employees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31791202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31791202", "title": "Small Arms Survey", "text": "Small Arms Survey\n\nThe Small Arms Survey is an independent research project located at the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva, Switzerland. It provides information on all aspects of small arms and armed violence, as a resource for governments, policy-makers, researchers, and activists, as well as research on small arms issues.\n\nThe Survey monitors national and international initiatives (governmental and non-governmental), and acts as a forum and clearinghouse for the sharing of information. It also disseminates best practice measures and initiatives dealing with small arms issues.\n\nThe Small Arms Survey mandate is to look at all aspects of small arms and armed violence. It provides research and analysis by which to support governments to reduce the incidence of armed violence and illicit trafficking through evidence-based analysis.\n\nThe project's staff includes international experts in security studies, political science, law, international public policy, development studies, economics, conflict resolution, and sociology. The staff works closely with a worldwide network of researchers and partners.\n\nThe Small Arms Survey hosts the Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development Secretariat.\nThe Small Arms Survey's Human Security Baseline Assessment for Sudan and South Sudan project supports violence reduction initiatives, including disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration programmes, incentive schemes for civilian arms collections and security sector reform, and arms control interventions across Sudan.\nThe Security Assessment in North Africa project supports efforts to build a more secure environment in North Africa and the Sahel-Sahara region. The project produces evidence-based research and analysis on the availability and circulation of small arms, the dynamics of emerging armed groups, and related insecurity. The research stresses the effects of the recent uprisings and armed conflicts in the region on community safety.\n\nIn 2018, Small Arms Survey reported that there are over one billion small arms distributed globally, of which 857 million (about 85 percent) are in civilian hands. U.S. civilians alone account for 393 million (about 46 percent) of the worldwide total of civilian held firearms. This amounts to \"120.5 firearms for every 100 residents.\"\n\nAccording to the report, the world's armed forces control about 133 million (about 13 percent) of the global total of small arms, of which over 43 percent belonging to two countries the Russian Federation (30.3 million) and China (27.5 million). And, the world's law enforcement agencies control about 23 million (about 2 percent) of the global total of small arms.\n\nAmerican civilians own over 393 million guns. \"Americans made up 4 percent of the world's population but owned about 46 percent of the entire global stock of 857 million civilian firearms.\" That is 3 times as many guns as the combined stockpile of the worlds armed forces. American civilians own more guns \"than those held by civilians in the other top 25 countries combined.\"\n\n\"American civilians own nearly 100 times as many firearms as the U.S. military and nearly 400 times as many as law enforcement.\" Americans bought more than 2 million guns in May, 2018, alone. That is more than twice as many guns, as possessed by every law enforcement agency in the United States put together. In April and May 2018, Americans bought 4.7 million guns, that's more than all the firearms stockpiled by the United States military. In 2017, Americans bought 25.2 million guns, that's 2.5 million more guns than possessed by every law enforcement agency in the world put together. Between 2012 and 2017, Americans bought 135 million guns, that's 2 million more guns than the combined stockpile of all the world's armed forces.\n\nThe data offered by the Small Arms Survey has several times been denounced as misleading or incorrect. The best known case is the estimation of the amount of firearms in Finland. The number was so high that virtually\nevery Finnish family should have an illegal firearm at home (on top of all the legal ones) to be true. This number has since then kept popping up as the Small Arms Survey has not corrected it, despite even the Finnish ministry\nof interior making a statement that the numbers are completely wrong.\n\nAnother recent example is the inclusion of the misguided Portu operation in their report \"From Legal to Lethal: Converted Firearms in Europe\". On page 48 they mention it as a seizure involving thousands of readily convertible deactivated firearms, from a militaria store Cantabrico Militaria. However this whole operation was a dismal failure. As there was never question of an illegal operation, and the owners were a few months later released and cleared of the charges. It is even alleged it was a \"marketing operation\" which had no legal basis and no other purpose but to support the changes to the European firearms directive also known as the \"EU Gun Ban\". As such this case should not be mentioned in their research as it had nothing to do with illegal trade of firearms or unlawful conversion.\n\nThe project's flagship publication is the \"Small Arms Survey\", an annual review of global small arms issues such as production, stockpiles, brokering, legal and illicit arms transfers, the effects of small arms, and national, bilateral, and multilateral measures to deal with the problems associated with small arms. Published by Cambridge University Press, it is recognized as the principal international source of impartial and reliable information on all aspects of small arms. It is widely used by policy-makers, government officials and non-governmental organizations.\n\n\nIn addition to its annual yearbook, the Small Arms Survey publishes a wide range of periodical research findings. These include a Book Series, Occasional Papers, Special Reports, Working Papers, and short Issue Briefs and Research Notes. These publications present substantial research findings on data, methodological, and conceptual issues related to small arms or detailed country and regional case studies. Most of these are published in hard copy and are also accessible on the project's web site.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43794808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43794808", "title": "Socialist state", "text": "Socialist state\n\nA socialist state, socialist republic, or socialist country (sometimes workers' state or workers' republic) is a sovereign state constitutionally dedicated to the establishment of socialism. The term \"Communist state\" is often used interchangeably in the West specifically when referring to single-party socialist states governed by Marxist-Leninist political parties despite being officially socialist states in the process of building socialism; these countries never describe themselves as communist nor as having achieved a communist society. Additionally, a number of countries which are not single-party states based on Marxism-Leninism make reference to socialism in their constitutions; in most cases these are constitutional references alluding to the building of a socialist society that have little to no bearing on the structure and development paths of these countries' political and economic systems.\n\nThe idea of a socialist state stems from the broader notion of state socialism, the political perspective that the working class needs to use state power and government policy to establish a socialist economic system. The concept of a socialist state is mainly advocated by Leninists and Marxist-Leninists, and most socialist states have been established by political parties adhering to variations of these political ideologies. The concept of a socialist state is considered unnecessary or counterproductive and therefore rejected by some classical Marxists, libertarian socialists and political thinkers who view the modern state as a byproduct of capitalism which would therefore have no function in a socialist system. Libertarian socialists and socialist anarchists reject the idea that the state can be used to establish a socialist society due to its hierarchical and arguably coercive nature.\n\nSocialist states in the Marxist-Leninist sense are sovereign states under the control of a vanguard party which is organizing the country's economic, political and social development toward the realization of socialism. Economically this involves the development of a state capitalist economy with state-directed capital accumulation with the long-term goal of building up the country's productive forces while simultaneously promoting worldwide socialist revolution.\n\nA socialist state is to be distinguished from a multi-party liberal democracy governed by a self-described socialist party, where the state is not constitutionally bound to the construction of socialism. In such cases, the political system and machinery of government is not specifically structured to pursue the development of socialism.\n\nThe term \"Socialist state\" is widely used by Marxist-Leninist parties, theorists, and governments to mean a state under the control of a vanguard party that is organizing the economic, social, and political affairs of said state toward the construction of socialism. States run by Communist parties that adhere to Marxism–Leninism, or some variation thereof, refer to themselves as \"Socialist states\" or \"workers' states\". They involve the direction of economic development toward the building up of the productive forces to underpin the establishment of a socialist economy, and usually include that at least the commanding heights of the economy are nationalized and under state ownership. This may or may not include the existence of a socialist economy, depending on the specific terminology adopted and level of development in specific countries. For example, the Leninist definition of a socialist state is a state representing the interests of the working class which presides over a state capitalist economy structured upon state-directed accumulation of capital, with the goal of building up the country's productive forces and promoting worldwide socialist revolution, with the realization of a socialist economy as the long-term goal.\n\nBecause all socialist states operated along Marxist-Leninist principles of governance, the term \"Marxist-Leninist state\" or \"Marxist-Leninist regime\" is also used by scholars, particularly when focusing on the political systems of these countries.\n\nIn the Western world, particularly in mass media, journalism and politics, these states and countries are often called \"Communist states\" (though they do not use this term to refer to themselves),\ndespite the fact that these countries never claimed to have achieved communism in their countries—rather, they claim to be building and working toward the establishment of socialism (and the development towards communism thereafter) in their countries.\n\nKarl Marx and subsequent thinkers in the Marxist tradition conceive of the state as representing the interests of the ruling class, partially out of material necessity for the smooth operation of the modes of production it presides over. Marxists trace the formation of the contemporary form of the sovereign state to the emergence of capitalism as a dominant mode of production, with its organizational precepts and functions designed specifically to manage and regulate the affairs of a capitalist economy. Because this involves governance and laws passed in the interest of the bourgeoisie as a whole and because government officials either come from the bourgeoisie or are dependent upon their interests, Marx characterized the capitalist state as a \"dictatorship of the bourgeoisie\". Extrapolating from this, Marx described a post-revolutionary government on the part of the working class or proletariat as a \"dictatorship of the proletariat\" because the economic interests of the proletariat would have to guide state affairs and policy during a transitional state. Alluding further to the establishment of a socialist and communist economy where social ownership displaces private ownership, and thus class distinctions on the basis of private property ownership are eliminated, the modern state would have no function and would gradually \"whither away\" or be transformed into a new form of governance.\n\nInfluenced by the pre-Marxist utopian socialist philosopher Henri de Saint-Simon, Friedrich Engels theorized the nature of the state would change during the transition to socialism. Both Saint-Simon and Engels described a transformation of the state from an entity primarily concerned with political rule over people (via coercion and law creation) to a scientific \"administration of things\" that would be concerned with directing processes of production in a socialist society, essentially ceasing to be a state.\n\nAlthough Marx never referred to a \"Socialist state\", he argued that the working class would have to take control of the state apparatus and machinery of government in order to transition out of capitalism and to socialism. The \"dictatorship of the proletariat\" would represent this transitional state and would involve working class interests dominating government policy in the same manner that capitalist class interests dominate government policy under capitalism (the \"dictatorship of the bourgeoisie\"). Engels argued that as socialism developed, the state would change in form and function: under socialism it is not a \"government of people, but the administration of things\", thereby ceasing to be a state by the traditional definition.\n\nOne of the most influential modern visions of a transitional state representing proletarian interests was based on the Paris Commune in which the workers and working poor took control of the city of Paris in 1871 in reaction to the Franco-Prussian War. Marx described the Paris Commune as the prototype for a revolutionary government of the future, \"the form at last discovered\" for the emancipation of the proletariat. Engels noted that \"all officials, high or low, were paid only the wages received by other workers. [...] In this way an effective barrier to place-hunting and careerism was set up\". Commenting on the nature of the state, Engels continued: \"From the outset the Commune was compelled to recognize that the working class, once come to power, could not manage with the old state machine\". In order not to be overthrown once having conquered power, Engels argues that the working class \"must, on the one hand, do away with all the old repressive machinery previously used against it itself, and, on the other, safeguard itself against its own deputies and officials, by declaring them all, without exception, subject to recall at any moment\". Engels argued such a state would be a temporary affair and suggested a new generation brought up in \"new and free social conditions\" will be able to \"throw the entire lumber of the state on the scrap-heap\".\n\nSocialists that embraced reformism, exemplified by Eduard Bernstein, took the view that both socialism and a socialist state will gradually evolve out of political reforms won in the by organized socialist political parties and unions: \"The socialist movement is everything to me while what people commonly call the goal of Socialism is nothing\". These views are considered a \"revision\" of Marxist thought.\n\nFollowing Marx, revolutionary socialists take the view that the working class grows stronger through its battle for reforms (such as in Marx's time the ten-hours bill): \n\nAccording to the orthodox Marxist conception, these battles eventually reach a point where a revolutionary movement arises. A revolutionary movement is required in the view of Marxists to sweep away the capitalist state and the \"dictatorship of the bourgeoisie\", which must be abolished and replaced with a \"dictatorship of the proletariat\" in order to being constructing a socialist society: \n\nIn this view, only through revolution can a socialist state be established.\n\nWhereas Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels and classical Marxist thinkers had little to say about the organization of the state in a socialist society, presuming the modern state to be specific to the capitalist mode of production, Vladimir Lenin pioneered the idea of a revolutionary state based on his theory of the revolutionary Vanguard party and organizational principles of democratic centralism. Adapted to the conditions of semi-feudal Russia, Lenin's concept of the \"dictatorship of the proletariat\" involved a revolutionary vanguard party acting as representatives of the proletariat and its interests. According to Lenin's April Theses, the goal of the revolution and vanguard party is not the introduction of socialism, which could only be established on a worldwide scale, but to bring production and the state under the control of the soviets of workers' deputies. Following the October Revolution in Russia, the Bolsheviks consolidated their power and sought to control and direct the social and economic affairs of the state and broader Russian society in order to safeguard against counterrevolutionary insurrection, foreign invasion and to promote socialist consciousness among the Russian population while simultaneously promoting economic development.\n\nThese ideas were adopted by Lenin in 1917 just prior to the October Revolution in Russia and published in \"The State and Revolution\". With the failure of the worldwide revolution, or at least European revolution, envisaged by Lenin and Leon Trotsky, the Russian Civil War and finally Lenin's death, war measures that were deemed to be temporary, such as forced requisition of food and the lack of democratic control, became permanent and a tool to boost Joseph Stalin's power, leading to the emergence of Marxism–Leninism and Stalinism as well as the notion that socialism can be created and exist in a single state.\n\nLenin argued that as socialism is replaced by communism, the state would \"wither away\" as strong centralized control progressively reduces as local communities gain more empowerment. As he put succinctly, \"[s]o long as the state exists there is no freedom. When there is freedom, there will be no state\".\n\nFollowing Joseph Stalin's consolidation of power in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and centralization of political power, Leon Trotsky condemned the Soviet government's policies for lacking widespread democratic participation on the part of the population and for suppressing workers' democratic participation in the management of the economy. Because these authoritarian political measures were inconsistent with the organizational precepts of socialism, Trotsky characterized the Soviet Union as a \"deformed workers' state\" that would not be able to effectively transition to socialism.\n\nOstensibly socialist states where democracy is lacking, yet the economy is largely in the hands of the state, are termed by orthodox Trotskyist theories as \"workers' states\" and not Socialist states, using the terms \"degenerated\" or \"deformed\" workers' states.\n\nat every level of economic and state administration while varying in the degree to which economic planning decisions are delegated to public officials and administrative specialists.\n\nThe political systems of Marxist-Leninist states revolve around the central role of the party which holds ultimate authority. Internally the party practices a form of democracy called democratic centralism.\n\nThe first sovereign state with \"Socialist\" in its name was the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic in 1918, which merged with the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, and Transcaucasian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic into a single federal union in 1922. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was the first state to proclaim itself a socialist state and proclaim its commitment to building a socialist economy in its 1936 Constitution and a subsequent 1977 Constitution. The Soviet Union was governed by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union as a single-party state ostensibly with a democratic centralism organization, with Marxism-Leninism remaining its official guiding ideology until the Soviet Union's dissolution on December 26, 1991. During the 22nd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1961, Nikita Khrushchev announced the completion of socialist construction and declared the optimistic goal of achieving communism in 20 years. The eastern bloc was a political and economic bloc of Soviet-aligned socialist states in Eastern and Central Europe which adhered to Marxism-Leninism, Soviet-style governance and a Soviet-style planned economy.\n\nThe People's Republic of China was founded on September 24, 1949, and proclaims itself to be a \"Socialist state\" in its 1982 Constitution of the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) used to be a Marxist–Leninist state. In 1972, the country adopted a new Constitution which changed the official state ideology to \"Juche\", which is held to be a distinct Korean re-interpretation of the former ideology. Similarly in the Lao People's Democratic Republic, direct references to communism are not included in its founding documents even though it gives direct power to the governing ruling party.\n\nThe preamble to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam's Constitution states that Vietnam only entered a transition stage between capitalism and socialism after the country was re-unified under the Communist party in 1976 and the 1992 Constitution of the Republic of Cuba states that the role of the Communist Party is to \"guide the common effort toward the goals and construction of socialism (and the progress toward a communist society)\".\n\nA number of countries make reference to socialism in their constitutions that are not single-party states embracing Marxism-Leninism and planned economies. In most cases these are constitutional references to the building of a socialist society and political principles that have little to no bearing on the structure and guidance of these country's machinery of government and economic system.\n\nThe preamble to the 1976 Constitution of Portugal states that the Portuguese state has as one of its goals opening \"the way to socialist society\".\n\nIndia, Algeria, Congo Brazaville and Sri Lanka have directly used the term \"socialist\" in their official constitution and name, respectively.\n\nPoland and Hungary directly denounce \"Communism\" in their founding documents in reference to their past regimes.\n\nIn these cases, the intended meaning of \"socialism\" can vary widely and sometimes the constitutional references to socialism are left over from a previous period in the country's history. In the case of many Middle Eastern states, \"socialism\" was often used in reference to an Arab socialist/nationalist philosophy adopted by specific regimes, such as that of Gamal Abdel Nasser and that of the various Ba'ath Parties.\n\nExamples of countries directly using the word \"socialist\" in their names include the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam while a number of countries make references to socialism in their constitutions, but not in their names. These include India and Portugal. In the constitutions of Hungary, Poland and Croatia, direct condemnation is made to the respective, past socialist regimes. The autonomous region of Rojava, which operates under the principles of democratic confederalism, has been described as a socialist state. In addition, countries like Spain, France, Belarus, Colombia and Russia use the varied term \"social state\", leaving a more ambiguous meaning.\n\nIn the post-war period when nationalisation of large industries was relatively widespread, it was not uncommon for commentators to describe some European countries as \"Socialist states\" seeking to move their countries toward a socialist economy.\n\nIn 1956, for example, leading British Labour Party politician and author Anthony Crosland claimed that capitalism had been abolished in Britain, although others—such as Welshman Aneurin Bevan, Minister of Health in the first post-war Labour government—disputed the claim that Britain was a socialist state. For Crosland and others who supported his views, Britain was a socialist state. For Bevan, Britain had a socialist National Health Service which stood in opposition to the hedonism of Britain's capitalist society. He stated: \n\nWhen the Socialist Party was in power in France in the post-war period, some commentators claimed that France was a socialist country, although as in the rest of Europe the laws of capitalism still operated fully and private enterprises dominated the economy. In the 1980s, the François Mitterrand government aimed to expand dirigism and scheduled to nationalize all banks, but this attempt faced opposition of the European Economic Community. The same is now applied to Nordic countries with the Nordic model.\n\nA variety of non-state socialist positions—such as social anarchism, libertarian socialism and council communism—reject the concept of a \"Socialist state\" altogether, believing that the modern state is a byproduct of capitalism and cannot be used for the establishment of a socialist system. They reason that a \"Socialist state\" is antithetical to socialism and that socialism will emerge spontaneously from the grassroots level in an evolutionary manner, developing its own unique political and economic institutions for a highly organized stateless society. Anarcho-communists likewise reject the concept of a \"Socialist state\" for being antithetical to socialism, but they believe that socialism—and thus communism—can only be established through revolution.\n\nWithin the socialist movement, a number of criticisms are maintained towards the use of the term \"Socialist states\" in relation to countries such as China and previously of Soviet Union and Eastern and Central European states before what some term the \"collapse of Stalinism\" in 1989. Democratic socialists, left communists, anarchists and some Trotskyists claim that the so-called \"Socialist states\" or \"people's states\" actually presided over state capitalist economies and thus cannot be called \"socialist\".\n\nOther Trotskyists, while agreeing that these states could not be described as socialist, deny that they were state capitalist. They support Trotsky's analysis of (pre-restoration) Soviet Union as a workers' state that had degenerated into a \"monstrous\" bureaucratic dictatorship which rested on a largely nationalized industry run according to a plan of production and claimed that the former Stalinist states of Central and Eastern Europe were deformed workers' states based on the same relations of production as the Soviet Union.\n\nCertain other countries simply use the self-defining term \"social state\" in their founding documents which are open to interpretation.\n\n"}
{"id": "8933768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8933768", "title": "The Youth Parliament", "text": "The Youth Parliament\n\nThe Youth Parliament (or \"The YP Foundation\") is a support organization for young people in India. It was established in July 2002 by social entrepreneur Ishita Chaudhry with support from the India Habitat Centre, New Delhi. In 2007, The Youth Parliament was legally incorporated 'The YP Foundation'- a charitable trust working with the express mandate of developing innovative ventures by ... minds, facilitating leadership skills and thinking power and increasing awareness on issues of global importance amongst young people. The YP is a not for profit, non political, support and learning organization, committed to developing the uninhibited expression of young people with the aim of sustaining a platform that enables young people to be effective and expressive agents of change.\n\nThe organization funds and supports innovative work by young people, by providing young people between the ages of 13 and 28 years with a resource base to conceptualize and execute their own projects and initiatives working with socio-cultural, economic, legal and environmental issues they are passionate about. It has supported work in multiple fields through varied mediums such as community initiatives, the performing and visual arts, literary and research projects, interactive workshops, policy and government interaction and research and advocacy work amongst others.\n\nIn 2006, The Youth Parliament was given the SMILE fellowship by NGO Pravah and was selected as a final affiliate for the Change Looms Award given by The Ashoka Foundation and Pravah. In November 2007 Founder and Managing Trustee Ishita Chaudhry was awarded the Karmaveer Puraskaar - the National Award for Social Justice and Action by ICONGO and the Nand and Jeet Khemka Foundation. In 2008, The YP Foundation has been awarded the Seen and Heard 2008 Award - an International UK based award given by British Telecom and The UK Youth Parliament to recognize exceptional initiatives that have created platforms for young people.Founder Ishita Chaudhry has also been nominated for the MtvIndia Youth Icon in 2008.\n\nIn 2009, they held a film festival which showed many films from Afghanistan including, The Afghan Chronicles, 16 Days in Afghanistan, Afghan Star, Beyond Belief, and Beauty Academy of Kabul\n\nThe YP Foundation has supported ventures in the following fields:\n\n"}
{"id": "10224483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10224483", "title": "Thomas Nkobi", "text": "Thomas Nkobi\n\nThomas Titus Nkobi (born 22 October 1922 in Southern Matabeleland, died 25 September 1994 in Johannesburg / South Africa) was a senior leader of the South African African National Congress (ANC) and a key figure in the Anti-Apartheid movement. Until his death he was the Treasurer General of the ANC and also its Member of Parliament.\n\nThomas Titus Nkobi (\"Comrade T.G.\") was born on 22 October 1922 in Plumtree, Matabeleland South, Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). He grew up and was educated in South Africa, where his father was working in the mines as a migrant labourer. He was at Adams College of Education in KwaZulu Natal with Joshua Nkomo, the Zimbabwean Vice-President and Bernard Chidzero, the Zimbabwean Minister of Finance and Dr. Ntsu Mokhehle, the Prime Minister of Lesotho. After completing High School in Natal he matriculated from Bantu High School (later Madibane High School) in Western Township, Johannesburg in 1946 and went to Roma College (now National University of Lesotho) in Lesotho, pursuing a Bachelor of Commerce degree.\n\nHis initial political involvement against the Apartheid regime started in 1944 during the Alexandra bus boycott, a non-violent protest campaign. In 1950 he formally joined the ANC and played a leading role in the 1952 ANC Defiance Campaign against Unjust Laws. He was one of the main volunteers who travelled from village to village collecting demands of the African population that were incorporated into the ANC Freedom Charter; he attended the 1955 Congress of the People in Kliptown that drew up the Freedom Charter as a delegate from Alexandra.\n\nIn 1957 Thomas Nkobi shot to prominence when he chaired the Second Alexandra Peoples Transport Committee which was co-ordinating a bus boycott in the Johannesburg and Pretoria townships following a 25 per cent increase in bus fares. In the same year he was arrested for participating in the nationwide South African Potato Boycott, following The Farm Labour Scandal, a journalistic investigation by Ruth First and Joe Gqabi, which uncovered that Africans arrested for infringement of the pass laws were coerced into enforced labour on potato farms. In 1958 Thomas Nkobi became the National Organizer of the ANC and was charged with the task of implementing the M-Plan, an action plan, named after Nelson Mandela, to decentralise the ANCs organizational branches and communication channels to avoid public meetings and announcements and increase effectiveness of their political and social campaign.\n\nDuring the 1960 State of Emergency, he was amongst the thousands of political activists who were detained. After his release he continued working for the ANC as National Organizer and was also prominent in the underground. He was banned in 1961, and in 1962 placed under a 24-hour house arrest. In 1963 Thomas Nkobi fled South Africa for exile in Dar es Salaam / Tanzania and later Lusaka / Zambia, where he became actively involved in mobilising international public opinion against the Apartheid regime.\n\nFrom 1968 to 1973 he served as deputy to then Treasurer General of the ANC, Moses Kotane. He was elected Treasurer General of the ANC in 1973, a post to which he was re-elected at all subsequent national conferences of the organisation.\n\nAfter the ANC was in legalised in 1990 he returned to South Africa. There he oversaw the ANCs budget for South Africa's first democratic election, which brought the ANC to power. Thomas Nkobi was re-elected as Treasurer General in party elections in 1991 and also elected as Member of Parliament, member of the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) and member of the ANC's National Working Committee (NWC); one of several elders with moderate views who retained leadership positions.\n\nHe died on 25 September 1994, in Johannesburg after suffering a fatal stroke. He is buried at Heroes' Acre in Soweto, a section of Soweto's Avalon Cemetery reserved as final resting place for many Anti-Apartheid activists.\n\nIn 2004, Thomas Nkobi posthumously received the Order of Luthuli in Gold for his \"exceptional and selfless contribution to the struggle for a non-racial, non-sexist, free and democratic South Africa\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3831309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3831309", "title": "United Nations Regional Groups", "text": "United Nations Regional Groups\n\nThe United Nations Regional Groups are the geopolitical regional groups of member states of the United Nations. Originally, UN member states were unofficially grouped into five geopolitical regional groups. What began as an informal means of sharing the distribution of posts for General Assembly committees has taken on a much more expansive role. Depending on the UN context, regional groups control elections to UN-related positions, on the basis of geographic representation, as well as coordinate substantive policy, and form common fronts for negotiations and voting.\n\nThe groupings have changed over time. From the founding of the United Nations until 1966, the regional groups were: British Commonwealth, Eastern Europe and Asia, Latin America, Middle East and Western Europe. In 1966, in response to changes in the UN's membership, decolonisation and strategic realignment, the groups were reorganised as: Asia, Eastern Europe, Africa, Latin America and Caribbean, and Western Europe and Others. In 2011, the Asia Group was renamed Asia-Pacific.\n\nAs of May 2014, 192 of the 193 UN member states are divided into five regional groups:\n\n\nKiribati is not included in any of the above-mentioned regional groups (see below for more details).\n\nApart from allowing member states with related international interests to liaise, discuss and coordinate their voting and other activities at the United Nations, the main function of the regional groups is to distribute membership quotas in United Nations bodies and leadership positions. According to convention, the non-permanent membership seats of the United Nations Security Council is apportioned between regional groups according to a set formula. Other bodies, such as the United Nations Economic and Social Council and the United Nations Human Rights Committee, also have set membership quotas for each regional group. The position of the President of the United Nations General Assembly rotates amongst the groups on a ten-year cycle (the current rule being that each regional group fills the position twice during the cycle, in effect it rotates on a five-year cycle).\n\nThe African Group has 54 members (28% of all UN members), and is thus the largest regional group by number of member states. It is the only regional group that has a territory that coincides with the traditional continent of which its name originates. The African Group has 3 seats on the Security Council, all non-permanent. The Group also has 14 seats on the United Nations Economic and Social Council and 13 seats on the United Nations Human Rights Council. In the rotation of the post of the President of the United Nations General Assembly, the group is eligible for having its nationals elected to this post in years ending with 4 and 9; most recently, Sam Kutesa of Uganda was elected to this position in 2014.\n\nMember states of the African Group, as of July 2011:\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Group (formerly the Asian Group) has 53 members (27.5% of all UN members) and is the second largest regional group by number of member states (one fewer than the African Group). Its territory is composed of much of the continents of Asia and Oceania. However, Russia and the Caucasian states are members of the Eastern European Group and Australia, New Zealand, Israel, and Turkey are all members of the Western European and Others Group. The Asia-Pacific Group has three seats on the Security Council: China's permanent seat, and two non-permanent seats. The Group also has 11 seats on the United Nations Economic and Social Council and 13 seats on the United Nations Human Rights Council. In the rotation of the post of the President of the United Nations General Assembly, the group is eligible for having its nationals elected to this post in years ending with 1 and 6; most recently, Peter Thomson of Fiji was elected to this position in 2016.\n\nMember states of the Asia-Pacific Group, as of 2011:\n\n\n\n\nUntil 2011, the Asia-Pacific Group was called the \"Asian Group\". The name change was adopted as a result of pressure from the non-Asian island countries that compose approximately one-fifth of the group's membership. On China's insistence, the group's official name is the \"Group of Asia and the Pacific Small Island Developing States\", but the use of the shortened name \"Asia-Pacific Group\" is permitted in official UN documents.\n\nThe Eastern European Group has 23 members (12% of all UN members), and as such is the regional group with the fewest member states. The Eastern European Group has 2 seats on the Security Council: Russia's permanent seat and one non-permanent seat. The Group also has 6 seats on the United Nations Economic and Social Council and 6 seats on the United Nations Human Rights Council. In the rotation of the post of the President of the United Nations General Assembly, the group is eligible for having its nationals elected to this post in years ending with 2 and 7; most recently, Vuk Jeremić of the Republic of Serbia was elected to this position for 2012.\n\nMembers of the Eastern European Group as of 2010:\n\n\nThe Latin American and Caribbean Group (GRULAC for short ) has 33 members (17% of all UN members). Its territory is almost exactly that of South and Central America and the Caribbean; the differences arise from the presence of dependent territories of European countries. GRULAC has 2 non-permanent seats on the Security Council. The Group also has 10 seats on the United Nations Economic and Social Council and 8 seats on the United Nations Human Rights Council. In the rotation of the post of the President of the United Nations General Assembly, the group is eligible for having its nationals elected to this post in years ending with 3 and 8; most recently, John William Ashe of Antigua and Barbuda was elected to this position in 2013.\n\nMember states of the Latin American and Caribbean Group, as of 2010:\n\n\n\n\nThe Western European and Others Group (WEOG for short) has 28 members (15% of all UN members). It has a territory dispersed on all of the continents, but mostly centred in Western Europe and North America. In addition, the United States is an observer (see below). Including the United States, WEOG has 5 seats on the Security Council: three permanent seats (France, United Kingdom, United States), and two non-permanent seats. The Group also has 13 seats on the United Nations Economic and Social Council and 7 seats on the United Nations Human Rights Council. In the rotation of the post of the President of the United Nations General Assembly, the group is eligible for having its nationals elected to this post in years ending with 0 and 5; most recently, Mogens Lykketoft of Denmark was elected to this position in 2015.\n\nMember states of the Western European and Others Group, as of 2011:\n\nSince the adoption of United Nations General Assembly resolution 67/19, there are observer states:\n\nIn May 2000, Israel, though naturally a part of the Asia-Pacific Group in geographical terms but with membership blocked by Arab countries became a full member of WEOG, on a temporary basis (subject to renewal), in WEOG's headquarters in the US, thereby enabling it to put forward candidates for election to various UN General Assembly bodies. In 2004 Israel obtained a permanent renewal to its membership. (It remained an observer at UN offices in Geneva, Nairobi, Rome and Vienna.) In December 2013, Israel was granted full membership to the WEOG group in Geneva. Israel is thus a full permanent member of the WEOG group.\n\nAs of 2010, Kiribati (geographically in Oceania) has never been elected to be a member of any regional group, despite other Oceania nations belonging to the Asia-Pacific Group. Despite its membership in the United Nations, Kiribati has never delegated a permanent representative to the UN.\n\nTurkey participates fully in both WEOG and Asia-Pacific Group, but for electoral purposes is considered a member of WEOG only.\n\nThe United States of America voluntarily chooses not to be a member of any group, and attends meetings of the Western European and Others Group as an observer only. However, it is considered to be a member of WEOG for putting forward candidates for electoral purposes in the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nThe Holy See\n\nThe Holy See participates in the Western European and Others Group as an observer only. \n\nThe Palestine Liberation Organization has participated in the Asia-Pacific group since 2 April 1986 as an observer.\n\nIn 2000, the government of Nauru—at present, a member of the Asia-Pacific Group—called for a new regional group titled Oceania. Aside from Nauru, this proposed bloc may also include Australia and New Zealand (both in the WEOG), Japan, South Korea, the ASEAN countries, and the rest of Oceania.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2223034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2223034", "title": "Upper ten thousand", "text": "Upper ten thousand\n\nUpper Ten Thousand, or simply, \"The Upper Ten\", is a 19th-century phrase referring to wealthiest 10,000 residents of New York City. The phrase was coined in 1844 by American poet and author Nathaniel Parker Willis. Soon, the term came to be used to describe the upper circles not only of New York, but also those of other major cities.\n\nIn 1852, Charles Astor Bristed published a collection of sketches on New York Society entitled \"The Upper Ten Thousand\" in \"Fraser Magazine\". In 1854, George Lippard serialized his book \"New York: Its Upper Ten and Lower Million\". The phrase also appeared in British fiction in \"The Adventures of Philip\" (1861–62) by William Thackeray, whose eponymous hero contributed weekly to a fashionable New York journal entitled “The Gazette of the Upper Ten Thousand”. \nThe general acceptance of the term seems to be attested by its use in the title of Edward Abbott's 1864 cookery book, \"The English and Australian Cookery Book: Cookery for the Many as Well as the 'Upper Ten Thousand\"'.\n\nIn 1875, both Adam Bissett Thom and Kelly's Directory published books entitled \"The Upper Ten Thousand\", which listed members of the aristocracy, the gentry, officers in the British Army and Navy, members of Parliament, Colonial administrators, and members of the Church of England. The usage of this term was a response to the broadening of the British ruling class which had been caused by the Industrial Revolution.\n\nMost of the people listed in \"Kelly's Handbook to the Upper Ten Thousand\" were among the 30,000 descendants of Edward III, King of England, tabulated in the Marquis of Ruvigny and Raineval's \"Plantagenet Roll of the Blood Royal\". Most also appeared in Walford's \"County Families\" and Burke's \"Landed Gentry\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11798209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11798209", "title": "Vice President of Indonesia", "text": "Vice President of Indonesia\n\nThe Vice President of the Republic of Indonesia () is the first in the line of succession in the Republic of Indonesia.\n\nThe Indonesian Vice Presidency was established during the formulation of the 1945 constitution by the Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence (BPUPKI). The office was first filled on 18 August 1945 when Mohammad Hatta was elected by acclamation. The election was conducted by the Committee for the Preparation of Indonesian Independence (PPKI) because the body responsible for the Vice-Presidential elections, the People's Consultative Assembly (MPR), had not been formed yet. In the early days of the Republic, the office of Vice-President showed how important it can be. On 16 October 1945, Hatta announced a Vice-Presidential decree which turned the Central National Committee of Indonesia (KNIP) equal status with that of the President. As a result of this decree, the KNIP was able to separate the role of Head of State and Head of Government on 11 November 1945. Although a new constitution had not been set up yet, Indonesia was now a de facto Parliamentary Democracy.\n\nDuring the Indonesian National Revolution, both Hatta and Sukarno were captured by the Dutch in Yogyakarta on 18 December 1948. Together with Sukarno, Hatta gave mandate for Syafruddin Prawiranegara to form an emergency Government. This was done and the Emergency Government of the Republic of Indonesia (PDRI) was formed in Sumatra with Prawiranegara as Chairman. Prawiranegara handed back his mandate to Sukarno and consequently, to Hatta on 13 July 1949.\n\nNow officially an independent nation, Indonesia adopted the Provisional Constitution, a document which defined the President's role as a ceremonial Head of State whose role was to appoint a Prime Minister on the advice of formateurs. Although the Vice Presidency continued to exist, the form of Government was now officially a Parliamentary Democracy and there was not a significant role for the Vice-President to play. On 1 December 1956, partly because of his differences with Sukarno, Hatta resigned from the Vice Presidency.\n\nFor the next 17 years, the Vice Presidency remain vacant. In December 1965, there were calls for a Vice-President to be named to assist President Sukarno during the times of uncertainty. The idea did not gain momentum and the Vice Presidency continued to remain vacant as the Presidency passed over from Sukarno to General Suharto.\n\nIn March 1973, the Vice Presidency vacancy was filled by Hamengkubuwono IX when he was elected by the MPR. After Hamengkubuwono IX and throughout the New Order, the Vice Presidency were successively held by Adam Malik, Umar Wirahadikusumah, Sudharmono, Try Sutrisno, and BJ Habibie. During his time as President, Suharto would reduce the Vice Presidency to a sinecure. A Vice-President was reduced to making sure that Government policy was being implemented and attending ceremonies. The Vice-President did not even take on Presidential duties when Suharto was either out of the country or ill. The office would derogatorily be known as \"Ban Serep\" (Spare Tire). Despite being a largely figurehead role, the Vice Presidency twice became a source of controversy with Sudharmono having to face various obstacles en route to being Vice-President in 1988 and Try being preemptively nominated in 1993.\n\nWith Suharto's fall in May 1998 and Habibie's accession to the Presidency, the Vice Presidency once again became vacant. In October 1999, Megawati Sukarnoputri was elected as Vice-President and the office began to gain significance. Megawati was delegated genuine tasks to do and in 2000, she even became responsible for the day-to-day running of the Government.\n\nDuring the 2001 MPR Annual Session, it was finally decided that from 2004 onwards, the Vice-President, together with the President, will directly be elected by the people. The substantial role that the Vice Presidency is now going to have was evident in the way in which the 2004 Presidential Candidates chose their running mates. At the end, Jusuf Kalla became Indonesia's first directly elected Vice-President.\n\nThe 1945 Constitution: The Vice-Presidential candidate has to be of Indonesian origins.\n\nThe Provisional Constitution: The Vice-Presidential candidate has to be an Indonesian citizen aged at least 30 years old. He cannot be someone who is deemed to be undesirable or has had his right to take part in elections stripped. He is also required to not be involved with any private corporations.\n\nThe Amended 1945 Constitution: The Vice-Presidential candidate has to be an Indonesian citizen since his/her birth, who has not willingly become a citizen in another nation, has not betrayed the nation, and is physically and mentally capable of performing the duties. Amended Constitution also states that further criteria will be determined by laws. The Vice-President is also required to be nominated by a Political Party or a coalition of Political Parties.\n\n2008 Law No. 42 about Presidential and Vice-Presidential Election: The Vice-Presidential candidate must be:\n\n2nd Resolution of 1973 MPR: The Vice-Presidential candidate has to make a statement in writing which declares that he is able to work together with the President.\n\nThe 1945 Constitution: Together with the President, the Vice-President is elected by the MPR with the largest number of votes. The Vice-President-elect is also required to read either an oath or a promise of office before officially becoming Vice-President. The term of office is Five years and after that the Vice-President can be re-elected again.\n\nThe Provisional Constitution: Together with the President, the Vice-President is elected according to rules specified by laws. The Vice-President-elect is required to read either an oath or a promise or a statement of office before officially becoming Vice-President. The Vice-President is constitutionally required to live where the seat of Government is.\n\nThe Amended 1945 Constitution: Together with the President, the Vice-President is elected directly by the people on a ticket. Further election rules are determined by laws passed by the DPR. The Vice-President-elect is required to read either an oath or a promise of office before officially becoming Vice-President. The term of office is Five years and after that the Vice-President can be re-elected for only one more term.\n\nOath of Office of the Vice-President of the Republic of Indonesia : \"I swear by Allah to fulfill the duties of President (Vice President) of the Republic of Indonesia to the best of my capabilities and in the fairest way possible, to uphold the Constitution by all means and to execute all laws and regulations as straightforwardly as possible as well as to dedicate myself to the service of the Nation and the People.\"\n\nPledge of Office of the Vice-President of the Republic of Indonesia : \"I solemnly pledge to fulfill the duties of President (Vice President) of the Republic of Indonesia to the best of my capabilities and in the fairest way possible, to uphold the Constitution by all means and to execute all laws and regulations as straightforwardly as possible as well as to dedicate myself to the service of the Nation and the People.\"\n\nNone specified by all constitutions. The convention has been for the President to delegate a task for the Vice-President to do.\n\nThe 1945 Constitution: The Vice-President replaces the President in the event that the President dies, resigns, or is unable to perform his/her duties for any reason.\n\nThe Provisional Constitution: The Vice-President replaces the President in the event that the President dies, resigns, or is unable to perform his/her duties for any reason.\n\nThe Amended 1945 Constitution: The Vice-President replaces the President in the event that the President dies, resigns, or is unable to perform his/her duties for any reason. If the President and the Vice-President dies, resigns, or is unable to perform his/her duties for any reason, the government will be taken over together by Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Internal Affairs and Minister of Defence. Then the MPR will elect a new president from the two candidates nominated by the political parties whose candidates are the winner and the runner-up in the past presidential election. If the Vice Presidency becomes vacant with the President still holding office, the President nominates two candidates and the MPR has to elect a new Vice-President out of the candidates within 60 days. Under the amended constitution, the Vice-President can now be impeached and removed from office. If the Vice-President is viewed to be unfit to perform his duties and has committed crimes such as corruption and betraying the Nation, the DPR can appeal to the Supreme Court to try the Vice-President. Furthermore, the DPR can ask the Constitutional Court to look into the matter, during which it has 90 days to make a decision. With the decision made, the DPR can motion for the MPR to convene. The Vice-President would then be given one last chance to defend himself before the MPR makes the decision whether or not the Vice-President should be impeached.\n\nLaw 7 of 1978 stipulates that former Vice-Presidents are entitled to a pension. Former Presidents are also entitled to a house with electricity, water, and telephone bills covered by the Government. In addition to that Former Vice-Presidents will have free healthcare for his family and a car with chauffeur.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "504014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504014", "title": "Westernization", "text": "Westernization\n\nWesternization (US) or Westernisation (UK), also Europeanization/Europeanisation or occidentalization/occidentalisation (from \"the Occident\", meaning the Western world; see \"occident\" in the dictionary), is a process whereby societies come under or adopt Western culture in areas such as industry, technology, law, politics, economics, lifestyle, diet, clothing, language, alphabet, religion, philosophy, and values. Westernization has been an accelerating influence across the world in the last few centuries, with some thinkers assuming Westernization to be the equivalent of modernization, a way of thought that is often debated. The overall process of Westernization is often two-sided in that Western influences and interests themselves are joined with parts of the affected society, at minimum, to change towards a more Westernized society, in the hope of attaining a Western life or some aspects of it, while Western societies are themselves affected by this process and interaction with non-Western groups.\n\nWesternization traces it roots back to Ancient Greece. Later, the Roman Empire would take on the first process of Westernization as it was heavily influenced by Greece and created a new culture based on the principles and values of the Ancient Greek society. The Romans emerged with a culture that would lay the new foundations of Europe and create the new western identity based on the Greco-Roman society.\n\nWesternization can also be compared to acculturation and enculturation. Acculturation is \"the process of cultural and psychological change that takes place as a result of contact between cultural groups and their individual members.\" After contact, changes in cultural patterns are evident within \"one\" or \"both\" cultures. Specific to Westernization and the non-Western culture, foreign societies tend to adopt changes in their own social systems relative to Western ideology, lifestyle, and physical appearance, along with numerous other aspects, and shifts in culture patterns can be seen to take root as a community becomes acculturated to Western customs and characteristics – in other words, Westernized. Westernization can include Christianization,\nAmericanisation and Europeanisation, with historical versions including Romanisation, Hellenisation, Francisation, and Germanisation.\n\nThe phenomenon of Westernization does not follow any one specific pattern across societies as the degree of adaption and fusion with Western customs will occur at varying magnitudes within different communities. Specifically, the extent to which domination, destruction, resistance, survival, adaptation or modification affect a native culture may differ following inter-ethnic contact.\n\nThe \"West\" was originally defined as the Western world. Ancient Romans distinguished between Oriental (Eastern, or Asian) cultures that inhabited present-day Egypt and Occidental cultures that lived in the West. A thousand years later, the East-West Schism separated the Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodox Church from each other. The definition of Western changed as the West was influenced by and spread to other nations. Islamic and Byzantine scholars added to the Western canon when their stores of Greek and Roman literature jump-started the Renaissance. Although Russia converted to Christianity in the 10th century, the West expanded to include it fully when Peter the Great deeply reformed the country's government, the church and modernised the society thanks to the ideas brought from the Netherlands. Today, most modern uses of the term refer to the societies in the West and their close genealogical, linguistic, and philosophical descendants, typically included are those countries whose ethnic identity and dominant culture are derived from European culture. However, though sharing in similar historical background, it would be incorrect to regard the Western world as a monolithic bloc, as many cultural, linguistic, religious, political, and economical differences exist between Western countries and populations.\n\nWestern civilization is commonly said to include United States, Canada, European Union (and at least the EFTA countries, European microstates), Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe definition is often widened, and can include these countries, or a combination of these countries:\n\nThe process of Westernization comes when non-Western societies come under Western influence or adopt Western culture in different areas such as industry, technology, law, politics, economics, lifestyle, diet, clothing, language, alphabet, religion, philosophy, and values.\n\nThe following countries experienced a significant influence by the process of Westernization:\n\nWidening the definition of countries influenced by Westernization may cause controversies.\n\nKishore Mahbubani's book entitled \"The Great Convergence: Asia, the West, and the Logic of One World\" (Public Affairs), is very optimistic. It proposes that a new global civilization is being created. The majority of non-Western countries admire and adhere to Western living standards. However, he warns us that this newly emerging global order has to be ruled through new policies and attitudes. He argues that the policymakers all over the world must change their preconceptions and accept that we live in one world. The national interests must be balanced with global interests and the power must be shared. Mahbubani urges that only through these actions can we create a world that converges benignly.\n\nHe states there is conflict between \"the West and the Rest.\" and offers three forms of general action that non-Western civilizations can react toward Western countries.\n\nThe End of Westernization\n\nMahbubani counters this argument in his other book, \"The New Asian Hemisphere: The Irresistible Shift of Global Power to the East\". This time, he argues that Western influence is now \"unraveling\", with Eastern powers such as China arising. He states:\n\nIn contrast to territorial delineation, others, like the American political scientist Samuel P. Huntington \"(see The Clash of Civilizations)\", consider what is \"Western\" based on religious affiliation, such as deeming the majority-Western Christian part of Europe and North America the West, and creating 6 other civilizations, including Latin America, Confucian, Japanese, Islamic, Hindu and Slavic-Orthodox, to organize the rest of the globe.\n\nFurthermore, Huntington claims that after the end of the cold war, world politics had been moved into a new aspect in which non- Western civilizations were no more the exploited recipients of Western civilization but become another important actor joining the West to shape and move the world history.\n\nHuntington believed that while the age of ideology had ended, the world had only reverted to a normal state of affairs characterized by cultural conflict. In his thesis, he argued that the primary axis of conflict in the future will be along cultural and religious lines.\n\nIn \"Orientalism\" Edward Said views Westernization as it occurred in the process of colonization, an exercise of essentializing a \"subject race\" in order to more effectively dominate them. Said references Arthur Balfour, the British Prime Minister from 1902–1905, who regarded the rise of nationalism in Egypt in the late 19th century as counterproductive to a \"benevolent\" system of occupational rule. Balfour frames his argument in favor of continued rule over the Egyptian people by appealing to England's great \"understanding\" of Egypt's civilization and purporting that England's cultural strengths complimented and made them natural superiors to Egypt's racial deficiencies. Regarding this claim, Said says, \"Knowledge to Balfour means surveying a civilization from its origins to its prime to its decline – and of course, it means being able to...The object of such knowledge is inherently vulnerable to scrutiny; this object is a ‘fact' which, if it develops, changes, or otherwise transforms itself...[the civilization] nevertheless is fundamentally, even ontologically stable. To have such knowledge of such a thing is to dominate it.\" The act of claiming coherent knowledge of a society in effect objectifies and others it into marginalization, making people who are classified into that race as \"almost everywhere nearly the same.\" Said also argues that this relationship to the \"inferior\" races, in fact, works to also fortify and make coherent what is meant by \"the West\"; if \"The Oriental is irrational, depraved (fallen), childlike, \"different...\" then \"...the European is rational, virtuous, mature, normal.\" Thus, \"the West\" acts as a construction in the similar way as does \"the Orient\" – it is a created notion to justify a particular set of power relations, in this case the colonization and rule of a foreign country.\n\nA different view on the Western world is not defining it by its territory, but by its people group, as these tend to differ in an increasingly globalised world. This view highlights the non-Western population in countries with a Western majority, or vice versa. The Boers for instance can be regarded as Western inhabitants of South Africa.\n\nFrom 1400s onward, Europeanization and colonialism spread gradually over much of the world and controlled different regions during this five centuries long period, colonizing or subjecting the majority of the globe.\nThe two World Wars weakened the European powers to such extent that many people in the colonies strove for independence, often inspired by nationalistic movements. A period of decolonization started. At the end of the 1960s, most colonies were autonomous. Those new states often adopted some aspects of Western politics such as a constitution, while frequently reacting against Western culture.\n\nGeneral reactions to Westernization can include fundamentalism, protectionism or embrace to varying degrees. Countries such as Korea and China attempted to adopt a system of isolationism but have ultimately juxtaposed parts of Western culture into their own, often adding original and unique social influences, as exemplified by the introduction of over 1,300 locations of the traditionally Western fast-food chain McDonald's into China. Specific to Taiwan, the industry of bridal photography (see Photography in Taiwan) has been significantly influenced by the Western idea of \"love\". As examined by author Bonnie Adrian, Taiwanese bridal photos of today provide a striking contrast to past accepted norms, contemporary couples often displaying great physical affection and, at times, placed in typically Western settings to augment the modernity, in comparison to the historically prominent relationship, often stoic and distant, exhibited between bride and groom. Though Western concepts may have initially played a role in creating this cultural shift in Taiwan, the market and desire for bridal photography has not continued without adjustments and social modifications to this Western notion.\n\nIn Korea, the first contact with Westernization was during the Chosun Dynasty, in 17th century. Every year, the emperor would dispatch few envoy ambassadors to China and while they were staying in Beijing, the Western missionaries were there. Through the missionaries, Korean ambassadors were able to adopt the Western technology and culture. In 19th century, Korea started to send ambassadors to the foreign countries, other than Japan and China. While Korea was being Westernized slowly in late 19th century, Korea had the idea of \"Eastern ways and Western frames (東道西器)\", meaning that they would accept the Western \"bowl\", but use it with Eastern principles inside.\n\nIn Japan, the Netherlands continued to play a key role in transmitting Western know-how to the Japanese from the 17th century to the mid-19th century, as the Japanese had opened their doors only to Dutch merchants before US Navy Commodore Matthew Perry's visit in 1852. After Commodore Perry's visit, Japan began to deliberately accept Western culture to the point of hiring Westerners to teach Western customs and traditions to the Japanese starting in the Meiji era. Many Japanese politicians have since also encouraged the Westernization of Japan using the term \"Datsu-A Ron\", which means the argument for \"leaving Asia\" or \"Good-bye Asia\". In \"Datsu-A Ron\", \"Westernization\" was described as an \"unavoidable\" but \"fruitful\" change. After Japan's surrender to the United States and its allies ended World War II, the Westernization process of Japanese culture was further intensified and today, Japan is notably among the most Westernized countries in Asia. However, in contrast, despite many advances in industrial efficiency, Japan has managed to sustain a culture of strict social hierarchy and limited individualization.\n\nIn Iran, the process of Westernization dates back to the country's attempt to westernize during the beginning in the 1930s, which was dictated by Shah Rezā Khan and continued by his son during the Cold War and agitated the largely conservative Shia Muslim masses of the country, was partly responsible for the 1979 Iranian Revolution.\n\nIn Turkey, the process of Westernization dates back to the 19th century, known as the Tanzimat \"(reorganization)\" period. The Ottoman Empire began to change itself according to western science, practice and culture. The Empire took some innovations from the West. Also, by the contribution of foreign engineers the Empire repaired its old arm systems. Newly-found schools, permanent ambassadors, and privy councils were essential improvement for the Empire. All these reformations had good impact at the point of collapse. Also, the innovation brought from European countries shaped the Empire as a nation run along modern lines. The Westernization efforts continued under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, with the adaptation of the Latin-script alphabet and the French concept of secularism. As a result, Turkey is one of the most Westernized majority-Muslim nations.\n\nWesternization is often regarded as a part of the ongoing process of globalization. This theory proposes that Western thought has led to globalisation, and that globalisation propagates Western culture, leading to a cycle of Westernization. On top of largely Western government systems such as democracy and constitution, many Western technologies and customs like music, clothing and cars have been introduced across various parts of the world and copied and created in traditionally non-Western countries.\n\nHowever, Westernization has been also reversed in some countries following wars or changes in regime, for example: China excluding Taiwan after 1949, South Vietnam after Communist takeover in 1975, Afghanistan after the Soviet invasion and Iran after the 1979 revolution.\n\nThe main characteristics are economic and political (free trade) democratisation, combined with the spread of an individualised culture. Often it was regarded as opposite to the worldwide influence of Communism. After the break-up of the USSR in late 1991 and the end of the Cold War, many of its component states and allies nevertheless underwent Westernization, including privatization of hitherto state-controlled industry.\n\nWith debates still going on, the question of whether globalization can be characterized as Westernization can be seen in various aspects. Globalization is happening in various aspects, ranging from economics, politics and even to food or culture. Westernization, to some schools, is seen as a form of globalization that leads the world to be similar with Western powers. Being globalized means taking positive aspects of the world, but globalization also brings about the debate about being Westernized. Democracy, fast foods, and American pop-culture can all be examples that are considered as Westernization of the world.\n\nAccording to the \"Theory of the Globe scrambled by Social network: a new Sphere of Influence 2.0\", published by Jura Gentium (the University of Florence), an increasing role in Westernisation is ruled by Social Media. The comparison with Eastern realities, who decided to ban the American Social Medias (as Iran and China with Facebook, Twitter), marks a political desire to avoid the process of Westernisation of own population and way to communicate.\n\nDue to the colonization of the Americas and Oceania by Europeans, the cultural, ethnic and linguistic make-up of the Americas and Oceania has been changed. This is most visible in former settler colonies such as the United States of America, Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile and New Zealand, where the traditional indigenous population has been predominantly replaced demographically by non-indigenous settlers due to transmitted disease and conflict. This demographic takeover in settler countries has often resulted in the linguistic, social, and cultural marginalisation of indigenous people. However, even in countries where large populations of indigenous people remain or the indigenous peoples have mixed (mestizo) considerably with European settlers, such as Bolivia, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru and Ecuador, relative marginalisation still exists.\n\nDue to colonization and European immigration, the prevalent native languages in the Americas, Australia, New Zealand, Northern Asia and part of South Africa and Central Asia, are now usually European languages or creoles based on them:\n\nMany indigenous languages are on the verge of becoming extinct. However, some settler countries have gone to lengths to preserve indigenous languages; for example, in New Zealand the Māori language is one of three official languages, the others being English and New Zealand sign language.\n\n\n"}
