{"id": "3680813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680813", "title": "101 Reykjavík", "text": "101 Reykjavík\n\n101 Reykjavík () is 2000 film based on the 1996 novel by Hallgrímur Helgason. Both are set in Reykjavík, Iceland. The film was directed by Baltasar Kormákur and stars Victoria Abril and Hilmir Snær Guðnason. The title is taken from the Íslandspóstur postal code for the Miðborg district of central Reykjavík. The film won nine B-class film awards and received ten nominations most notably winning the Discovery Film Award at the Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nGeek Hlynur is approaching 30 years old, still lives with his mother who is divorced from his alcoholic father, downloads porn and wanders around Reykjavík half-heartedly searching for a job while spending lots of time in Kaffibarinn, the central Reykjavík bar (the bar is owned in real life by writer/director Baltasar Kormákur and his soundtrack composer Damon Albarn, a long-standing Icelandophile). The cramped, dark and oddly furnished house in which Hlynur and his mother live features a bath which transfigures into a sofa as Hlynur steps naked out of it, in the middle of the lounge with his mother watching. \n\nHlynur's isolated world — no small metaphor for his home country — is going along rather blissfully ignorant of the greater joys involved with engaging in life until his mother's friend Lola Milagros arrives to stay at the house for a while. Lola is a Spanish flamenco instructor with a seductive smile, a sultry voice and a \"carpe-diem\" attitude. Unknown to Hlynur, she is also bisexual and in a physical relationship with his mother, Berglind. An enigmatic character, Lola quickly becomes the center of the household dynamic when, after a night of heavy drinking while Berglind is away, she and Hlynur sleep together. The fling remains a secret between Hlynur and Lola. (Throughout the film, the song \"Lola\" often plays as background music.) As Hlynur gradually learns of their lesbian relationship, he becomes jealous of it, realizing that he was simply a momentary fling for Lola, but he is also the dutiful son who wants to accept his mother's newfound lesbianism and be happy for her. He also has occasional seeming oedipal / incestuous dreams about his mother.\n\nLola wants Hlynur to get out of the house and find himself something to do because she recognizes from the start that that's what he needs most, but Hlynur prefers to pass the time in a true slacker fashion with plenty of excess and not an iota of effort. He sees no real future for himself, rather an entire life supported by the Icelandic welfare state. \"It's a great system.\" he says. When asked what he does, Hlynur responds with, \"Nothing.\" Pushed further with, \"What kind of nothing?\" he replies the only way he can: \"A nothing kind of nothing.\" Not even death is a serious topic for Hlynur — intoxicating, out-all-night weekends inspire, \"Each weekend I drop dead.\" He says this while lighting up a Lucky atop a snow-capped mountain, where he lies down as the snow gradually covers him up, but his plans are scuppered by rainfall melting his would-be tomb. His mixed up thoughts include musings about suicide: \"The worst thing about AIDS as a method of suicide is that it takes so long to die from it.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Hlynur's fantasy life is alive with passion and glimpses of his subconscious show us a deeply conflicted sense of self. Flashbacks of an alcoholic father mix with sexual fantasies of the lovely Lola but quickly reveal that mom's in bed, too. During a quick trip to the suburbs for a dinner with extended family, Hlynur, so comically disturbed by the mundane family ritual (they actually gather to watch a video of last year's family dinner), imagines a bloodbath scene killing everyone at close range with a shotgun. When brought back to reality, Hlynur's blank slate and effortless personality come back into the fore: \"I was thinking what a nice couch you have\", he explains to the previously slaughtered family.\n\nHlynur's confusion over the whole situation is expressed in his rather profound and imaginative musings: \n\n\"There they are...my mother the lesbian, and my father the boozer. What am I then? The offspring of a lesbian and a boozer? It's like two birds of different species. The lesbian bird and the boozer bird. The boozer is a wetland bird. He's rather heavy...and needs a good run-up to get off the ground. He can fly for a long time and has good stamina. Several weeks may pass by before he gets back on the ground. In between he lies low and goes on the defensive. Especially for the first days after landing. The lesbian. Unlike the boozer...the lesbian is a relative newcomer to Icelandic nature. She is thought to have migrated from Denmark and Britain. Her only contact with the male bird is during conception. In recent years we have witnessed cases of male birds...who are unable to fly at all. The offspring of a boozer and a lesbian is the Hlynur...an unusually slow developer that can't fly... and remains with his mother for the first 30 years. The Hlynur is defensive by nature, but harmless.\"\nThe film progresses as Hlynur comes to terms with his mother's love for Lola and his own feelings of inadequacy with her. The announcement that Lola is pregnant pushes him to the brink, making living under the same roof next to impossible for all three; but after a lot of acting out and flippant commentary, Hlynur begins to see life little differently. Hylnur also begins engaging in more activities outside his home and eventually finds himself a fitting job as well as the affections of a woman his age who has broken up with her unfaithful boyfriend. The infant's arrival also symbolically coincides neatly with Hlynur's homecoming to the world outside his bedroom and a newfound contentedness. The strong possibility that he is the father of Lola's child has been a secret between Lola and Hlynur, and this is more than hinted at in the closing scenes of the happy household composed of mother, son, Lola, and Lola's baby who calls him Papa.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226395", "title": "1625 in literature", "text": "1625 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1625.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226378", "title": "1641 in literature", "text": "1641 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1641.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4219081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4219081", "title": "Alcibiades the Schoolboy", "text": "Alcibiades the Schoolboy\n\nAlcibiades the Schoolboy (\"L'Alcibiade, fanciullo a scola\"), an Italian dialogue published anonymously in 1652, is a defense of homosexual sodomy (anal sex) loosely styled after Platonic dialogue. Set in ancient Athens, the teacher is modelled on Socrates, who so desperately wants to consummate the relationship he has with Alcibiades, one of his students, that he uses all tactics of rhetoric and sophistry at his disposal. He argues that Nature gave us sexual organs for our own pleasure, and that it would insult her to use them otherwise, citing examples from Greek mythology and culture, as well as refuting counterarguments based on the Sodom and Gomorrah story. It is \"a tour de force of pederastic fantasy and one of the frankest and most explicit texts on the subject to have been written before the twentieth century.\" It has been called \"the first homosexual novel\".\n\nFor many years the identity of the author was a mystery. The work was first attributed to Pietro Aretino, but an article in 1888 by Achille Neri identified the author as Antonio Rocco, a libertine priest and philosopher and member of the Accademia degli Incogniti founded by Giovan Battista Loredan.\n\nThe text is unashamedly explicit, and it has been argued that \"it must be understood in the context of similar texts of the trend of libertinism, using the term in its original sense of a sceptical philosophical tendency.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1844767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844767", "title": "Archaic Greece", "text": "Archaic Greece\n\nArchaic Greece was the period in Greek history lasting from the eighth century BC to the second Persian invasion of Greece in 480 BC, following the Greek Dark Ages and succeeded by the Classical period. The period began with a massive increase in the Greek population and a series of significant changes which rendered the Greek world at the end of the eighth century as entirely unrecognisable as compared to its beginning. \nAccording to Anthony Snodgrass, the Archaic period in ancient Greece was bounded by two revolutions in the Greek world. It began with a \"structural revolution\" which \"drew the political map of the Greek world\" and established the \"poleis\", the distinctively Greek city-states, and ended with the intellectual revolution of the Classical period.\n\nThe Archaic period saw developments in Greek politics, economics, international relations, warfare, and culture. It laid the groundwork for the Classical period, both politically and culturally. It was in the Archaic period that the Greek alphabet developed, that the earliest surviving Greek literature was composed, that monumental sculpture and red-figure pottery began in Greece, and that the hoplite became the core of Greek armies. In Athens, the earliest institutions of the democracy were implemented under Solon, and the reforms of Cleisthenes at the end of the Archaic period brought in Athenian democracy as it was during the Classical period. In Sparta, many of the institutions credited to the reforms of Lycurgus were introduced during the period, the region of Messenia was brought under Spartan control, helotage was introduced, and the Peloponnesian League was founded, making Sparta a dominant power in Greece.\n\nThe word \"archaic\" derives from the Greek word \"archaios\", which means \"old\". It refers to the period in ancient Greek history before the Classical. The period is generally considered to have lasted from the beginning of the eighth century BC until the beginning of the fifth century BC, with the foundation of the Olympic Games in 776 BC and the Second Persian invasion of Greece in 480 BC forming notional start and end dates. The Archaic period was long considered to have been less important and historically interesting than the Classical period, and was primarily studied as a precursor to it. More recently, however, Archaic Greece has come to be studied for its own achievements. With this reassessment of the significance of the Archaic period, some scholars have objected to the term \"archaic\", due to its connotations in English of being primitive and outdated. No term which has been suggested to replace it has gained widespread currency, however, and the term is still in use.\n\nMuch of our evidence about the Classical period of ancient Greece comes from written histories, such as Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War. By contrast, we have no such evidence from the Archaic period. We have written accounts of life in the period in the form of poetry, and epigraphical evidence, including parts of law codes, inscriptions on votive offerings, and epigrams inscribed on tombs. However, none of this evidence is in the quantity for which we have it in the Classical period. What is lacking in written evidence, however, is made up for in the rich archaeological evidence from the Archaic Greek world. Indeed, where much of our knowledge of Classical Greek art comes from later Roman copies, all of the surviving Archaic Greek art is original.\n\nOther sources for the period are the traditions recorded by later Greek writers such as Herodotus. However, these traditions are not part of any form of history as we would recognise it today; those transmitted by Herodotus he recorded whether or not he believed them to be accurate. Indeed, Herodotus does not even record any dates before 480 BC.\n\nPolitically, the Archaic period saw the development of the polis (or city-state) as the predominant unit of political organisation. Many cities throughout Greece came under the rule of autocratic leaders, called \"tyrants\". The period also saw the development of law and systems of communal decision-making, with the earliest evidence for law codes and constitutional structures dating to the period. By the end of the Archaic period, both the Athenian and Spartan constitutions seem to have developed into their classical forms.\n\nThe Archaic period saw significant urbanisation, and the development of the concept of the \"polis\" as it was used in Classical Greece. By Solon's time, if not before, the word \"polis\" had acquired its classical meaning, and though the emergence of the polis as a political community was still in progress at this point, the polis as an urban centre was a product of the eighth century. However, the polis did not become the dominant form of socio-political organisation throughout Greece in the Archaic period, and in the north and west of the country it did not become dominant until some way into the Classical period.\n\nThe urbanisation process in Archaic Greece known as \"synoecism\" – the amalgamation of several small settlements into a single urban centre – took place in much of Greece in the eighth century BC. Both Athens and Argos, for instance, began to coalesce into single settlements around the end of that century. In some settlements, this physical unification was marked by the construction of defensive city walls, as was the case in Smyrna by the middle of the eighth century BC, and Corinth by the middle of the seventh century BC.\n\nIt seems that the evolution of the polis as a socio-political structure, rather than a simply geographical one, can be attributed to this urbanisation, as well as a significant population increase in the eighth century. These two factors created a need for a new form of political organisation, as the political systems in place at the beginning of the Archaic period quickly became unworkable.\n\nThough in the early part of the Classical period the city of Athens was both culturally and politically dominant, it was not until the late sixth century BC that it became a leading power in Greece.\n\nThe attempted coup by Cylon of Athens may be the earliest event in Athenian history which is clearly attested by ancient sources, dating to around 636. At this time, it seems that Athens' monarchy had already been ended and the archonship had replaced it as the most important executive office in the state, though the archonship could only be held by members of the Eupatridae, the families which made up Athens' aristocracy.\n\nThe earliest laws of Athens were established by Draco, in 621/0; his law on homicide was the only one to have survived to the Classical period. Draco's law code aimed to replace private revenge as the first and only response of an individual to an offence committed against them. The law code of Draco, however, failed to prevent the tensions between the rich and poor which were the impetus to Solon's reforms.\n\nIn 594/3 BC, Solon was appointed \"archon and mediator\". Exactly what his reforms consisted of is uncertain. He claimed to have taken up the \"horoi\" to set the land free, but the exact meaning of \"horoi\" is unknown; their removal seems, however, to have been part of the problem of \"hektemoroi\" – another word whose meaning is obscure. Solon was also credited with abolishing slavery for debtors, and establishing limits on who could be granted Athenian citizenship.\n\nSolon instituted radical constitutional reform, replacing noble birth as a qualification for office with income. The poorest – called thetes – could hold no offices, although they could attend the Assembly and the law courts, while the richest class – the pentacosiomedimni – were the only people eligible to become treasurer, and possibly archon. He set up the Council of the Four Hundred, responsible for discussing motions which were to come before the Assembly. Finally, Solon substantially reduced the powers of the archon by giving citizens the right of appeal; their case was judged by the Assembly.\n\nSparta's constitution took on the form it would have in the Classical period during the eighth century BC. According to Thucydides, the Spartan constitution was roughly four-hundred years old, which would place the semi-legendary lawgiver Lycurgus of Sparta as being active during the late 9th century BC. The First Messenian War, probably taking place from approximately 740 to 720 BC, saw the strengthening of the powers of the Gerousia against the assembly, and the enslavement of the Messenian population as Helots. Around the same time, the ephors gained the power to restrict the actions of the kings of Sparta. From around 560 BC, Sparta began to build a series of alliances with other Greek states, which became the Peloponnesian League: by 550, cities such as Elis, Corinth, and Megara would be part of the alliance.\n\nIn the eighth and seventh centuries BC, Greeks began to spread across the Mediterranean, the Sea of Marmara, and the Black Sea. This was not simply for trade, but also to found settlements. These Greek colonies were not, as Roman colonies were, dependent on their mother-city, but were independent city-states in their own right.\n\nGreeks settled outside of Greece in two distinct ways. The first was in permanent settlements founded by Greeks, which formed as independent poleis. The second form was in what historians refer to as \"emporia\"; trading posts which were occupied by both Greeks and non-Greeks and which were primarily concerned with the manufacture and sale of goods. Examples of this latter type of settlement are found at Al Mina in the east and Pithekoussai in the west.\n\nThe earliest Greek colonies were on Sicily. Many of these were founded by people from Chalcis, but other Greek states, such as Corinth and Megara were also responsible for early colonies in the area. By the end of the eighth century BC, Greek settlements in southern Italy were also well established. In the seventh century, Greek colonists expanded the areas that they settled. In the west, colonies were founded as far afield as Marseilles. In the east, the north Aegean, the Sea of Marmara, and the Black Sea all saw colonies founded. The dominant coloniser in these parts was Miletus. At the same time, early colonies such as Syracuse and Megara Hyblaia began to themselves establish colonies.\n\nIn the west, Sicily and southern Italy were some of the largest recipients of Greek colonisers. Indeed, so many Greek settlements were founded in southern Italy that it was known in antiquity as Magna Graecia – \"Great Greece\". It has been observed that in the last quarter of the eighth century, new Greek settlements were founded in Sicily and southern Italy at an average rate of one every other year, and Greek colonists continued to found cities in Italy until the mid-fifth century BC.\n\nArchaic Greece from the mid-seventh century BC has sometimes been called an \"Age of Tyrants\". The word \"τύραννος\" (\"tyrannos\", whence the English \"tyrant\") first appeared in Greek literature in a poem of Archilochus, to describe the Lydian ruler Gyges. The earliest Greek tyrant was Cypselus, who seized power in Corinthe in a coup in 655 BC. He was followed by a series of others in the mid-seventh century BC, such as Orthagoras in Sicyon and Theagenes in Megara.\n\nVarious explanations have been provided for the rise of tyranny in the seventh century BC. The most popular of these explanations dates back to Aristotle, who argued that tyrants were set up by the people in response to the nobility becoming less tolerable. As there is no evidence from the time that the nobility were becoming increasingly arrogant during the period, modern explanations of seventh century tyranny have tried to find other reasons for unrest among the people. Against this position, Drews argues that tyrannies were set up by individuals who controlled private armies, and that early tyrants did not need the support of the people at all, whilst Hammond suggests that tyrannies were established as a consequence of in-fighting between rival oligarchs, rather than between the oligarchs and the people.\n\nHowever, recently historians have begun to question the existence of a seventh century \"age of tyrants\". In the Archaic period, the Greek word \"tyrannos\", according to Victor Parker, did not have the negative connotations it had gained by the time Aristotle wrote his \"Constitution of the Athenians\". When Archilochus used the word tyrant, it was synonymous with \"anax\" (an Archaic Greek word meaning \"king\"). Parker dates the first use of the word \"tyrannos\" in a negative context to the first half of the sixth century, at least fifty years after Cypselus took power in Corinth. It was not until the time of Thucydides that \"tyrannos\" and \"basileus\" (\"king\") were consistently distinguished. Similarly, Greg Anderson has argued that Archaic Greek tyrants were not considered illegitimate rulers, and cannot be distinguished from any other rulers of the same period.\n\nGreek population doubled during the eighth century, resulting in more and larger settlements than previously. This was part of a wider phenomenon of population growth across the Mediterranean region at this time, which may have been caused by a climatic shift that took place between 850 and 750, which made the region cooler and wetter. This led to the expansion of population into uncultivated areas of Greece and was probably also a driver for colonisation abroad.\n\nEvidence from human remains shows that average age at death increased over the Archaic period, but there is no clear trend for other measures of health. The size of houses gives some evidence for prosperity within society; in the eighth and seventh centuries, the average house size remained constant around 45–50 m², but the number of very large and very small houses increased, indicating increasing economic inequality. From the end of the seventh century, this trend reversed, with houses clustering closely around a growing average.\n\nNot all arable land in Greece was yet under cultivation in the Archaic period. Farms appear to have been small, cohesive units, concentrated near settlements. They were highly diversified, growing a wide variety of crops simultaneously, in order to make consistent use of human resources throughout the year and to ensure that the failure of any one crop was not too much of a disaster. Crop rotation was practiced, alternating between legumes and cereals (barley and durum), and the land was left fallow every other year. Alongside these, farmers cultivated vines, olives, fruit, and vegetables as cash crops for sale in local centres and abroad. Livestock were of secondary importance. Sheep and goats, in particular, were kept for meat, milk, wool, and fertiliser, but they were difficult to sustain and large herds were a sign of exceptional wealth. A team of oxen could increase agricultural output significantly, but were expensive to maintain. Horses and large herds of cattle were the preserve of the mega-rich.\n\nThis pattern had probably developed before the beginning of the period and remained relatively consistent throughout it. The idea that it was preceded by a period of pastoralism and that agriculture only became dominant in the course of the Archaic period is not supported by the archaeological or literary evidence. No technological innovations in agriculture appear to have occurred, except possibly the increased use of iron tools and more intensive use of manure.\n\nThe main source for the practice of agriculture in the period is Hesiod's \"Works and Days\", which gives the impression of very small subsistence holdings in which the owner performed most of the labour personally; close reading reveals that much of the produce is to be sold for profit, much of the work to be performed by slaves (\"douloi\" or \"dmoes\"), and much of the owner's time to be spent away from the farm. Slaves' labour was supplemented by labourers who worked for a wage, as sharecroppers (called \"hektemoroi\" at Athens), or to pay off debts; this practice seems to have increased in the eighth century as the growth of the population increased the number of workers available, and intensified in the seventh century with the development of legally enforced debts and the status of the labourers increasingly becoming a source of social strife.\n\nBy the late eighth century BC, the Archaic Greek world had become involved in an active trade network around the Aegean. It was this trade network which was the source of the orientalizing influence on Greek art in the early part of the Archaic period. Meanwhile, to the west, trade between Corinth and Magna Graecia in Southern Italy and Sicily was booming.\n\nThe eastern trade mainly involved the Greek islands, with Aegina, for instance, acting as an intermediary between the east and the Greek mainland. East Greek states would go on to become extremely prosperous through the sixth century due to the trade with Asia and Egypt. Of the mainland cities, those on the coast were the biggest recipients of trade from the east, especially Corinth.\n\nIn the early part of the Archaic period, Athens does not seem to have been particularly actively involved in this eastern trade, and very few examples of eastern imports have been found in Athens from the eighth or early seventh centuries. By contrast, nearby Euboea had trade-links with the east as early as the first half of the eighth century, and the earliest pottery from the Greek islands found at Al Mina in modern Syria is from Euboea.\n\nBy the sixth century, Greece was part of a trade network spanning the entire Mediterranean. Sixth century Laconian pottery has been found as far afield as Marseilles and Carthage to the west, Crete to the south and Sardis to the East.\nAt the beginning of the Archaic period, coinage had not yet been invented. The Greeks measured the value of objects or fines using certain valuable objects, such as oxen, tripods, and metal spits, as units of account. As in the Near East, precious metal bullion was used as a medium of exchange, principally gold at first, but mainly silver by the beginning of the sixth century. The weight of this bullion (often known as hacksilber) was measured using standard units, named for their value in terms of metal spits (\"obeloi\") and handfuls (\"drachmai\") of metal spits; these terms would later be used as names for Greek coin denominations.\nCoinage was invented in Lydia around 650 BC. It was quickly adopted by Greek communities in western Asia Minor, although the older system of bullion remained in use as well. The island of Aegina began to issue its distinctive \"turtle\" coins before 550 BC, and from there coinage spread to Athens, Corinth and the Cycladic Islands in the 540s BC, Southern Italy and Sicily before 525 BC, and Thrace before 514 BC. Most of these coinages were very small and were mostly only used within the community that issued them, but the \"turtles\" of Aegina (from 530 or 520 BC) and the \"owls\" of Athens (from 515 BC) were issued in great quantity and exported throughout the Greek world.\n\nThe images on coins initially changed rapidly, but increasingly each community settled on a single image or set of images. Some of these were the symbol or image of an important deity in the city or visual puns on the city's name, but in many cases their meaning is obscure and may not have been chosen for any special reason.\nThe reasons for the rapid and widespread adoption of coinage by the Greeks are not entirely clear and several possibilities, which are not mutually exclusive, have been suggested. One possibility is the increased ease of commerce which coinage allowed. Coins were of standardised weights, which meant that their value could be determined without weighing them. Furthermore, it was not necessary for users of coinage to spend time determining whether the silver was pure silver; the fact that the coin had been issued by the community was a promise that it was worth a set value. Another possibility is that coinage was adopted specifically to enable communities to make payments to their citizens, mercenaries and artisans in a transparent, fair and efficient way. Similarly, when wealthy members of the community were required to contribute wealth to the community for festivals and the equipment of navies, coinage made the process more efficient and transparent. A third possibility, that coinage was adopted as an expression of a community's independence and identity, seems to be anachronistic.\n\nIn the visual arts, the Archaic period is characterised by a shift towards representational and naturalistic styles. It was the period in which monumental sculpture was introduced to Greece, and in which Greek pottery styles went through great changes, from the repeating patterns of the late geometric period to the earliest red figure vases. The early part of the Archaic period saw distinctive orientalizing influences, both in pottery and in sculpture. The period was also an innovative period in Greek literature, with the development of the Greek alphabet, and the composition of the earliest surviving Greek poetry.\n\nLife-size human sculpture in hard stone began in Greece in the Archaic period. This was inspired in part by ancient Egyptian stone sculpture: the proportions of the New York Kouros exactly correspond to Egyptian rules about the proportion of human figures. In Greece, these sculptures best survive as religious dedications and grave markers, but the same techniques would have also been used to make cult images.\n\nThe best-known types of Archaic sculpture are the kouros and kore, near life-size frontal statues of a young man or woman, which were developed around the middle of the seventh century BC in the Cyclades. Probably the earliest kore produced was the Dedication of Nikandre, which was dedicated to Artemis at her temple on Delos between 660 and 650 BC, while kouroi began to be created shortly after this. Kouroi and korai were used to represent both humans and divinities. Some kouroi, such as the Colossus of the Naxians from around 600 BC, are known to represent Apollo, while the Phrasikleia Kore was meant to represent a young woman whose tomb it originally marked. Early in the seventh century around 650 BC when kore are widely introduced, Daedalic style made an appearance in Greek sculpture. This style consisted most noticeably of a geometric pattern of female subjects' hair framing their face. On male sculptures they were often posed with one foot in front, as if in motion.\n\nOver the course of the sixth century, kouroi from Attica become more lifelike and naturalistic. However, this trend does not appear elsewhere in the Greek world. The genre began to become less common over the last part of the sixth century as the elites who commissioned kouroi declined in influence, and by around 480 kouroi were no longer made.\n\nThe period saw a shift in the decoration of Greek pottery from abstract to figurative styles.\nDuring the Greek Dark Ages, following the fall of the Mycenaean civilisation, Greek pottery decoration had been based around increasingly elaborate geometrical patterns. Human figures first appeared on Greek pots in Crete in the early part of the ninth century BC, but did not become common on mainland Greek pottery until the middle of the eighth century BC.\n\nThe eighth century saw the development of the orientalizing style, which signalled a shift away from the earlier geometric style and the accumulation of influences derived from Phoenicia and Syria. This orientalizing influence seems to have come from goods imported to Greece from the Near East.\n\nAt the beginning of the seventh century BC, vase painters in Corinth began to develop the black figure style. At the same time, potters began to use incisions in the clay of vases in order to draw outlines and interior detailing. This adoption of incision, probably taken from eastern metalwork, allowed potters to show fine details of their decorations.\n\nAs the Archaic period drew to a close, red-figure pottery was invented in Athens, with the first examples being produced about 525 BC, probably by the Andokides painter. The invention of the red-figure technique in Athens came at around the same time as the development of other techniques such as the white ground technique and Six's technique.\n\nThe earliest extant Greek literature comes from the Archaic period. Poetry was the predominant form of literature in the period. Alongside the dominant lyric and epic traditions, tragedy began to develop in the archaic period, borrowing elements from the pre-existing genres of archaic Greek poetry. By the sixth century BC the first written prose in Greek literature appeared.\n\nThough there would certainly have been a pre-existing literary tradition in Greece, the earliest surviving works are by Homer. Homer's poetry, though it dates to around the time that the Greeks developed writing, would have been composed orally – the earliest surviving poetry to have certainly been composed in writing is that of Archilochus, from the mid-seventh century BC. In contrast with the Classical period, in which the literary culture of Athens dominated the Greek world, Archaic poetic tradition was geographically spread out. Sappho and Alcaeus, for instance, were from Lesbos, while Pindar came from Thebes, and Alcman from Sparta.\n\nAfter the end of the Mycenaean period, the art of writing was lost in Greece: by the ninth century probably no Greeks understood the Bronze Age Linear B writing system. From the ninth century BC, however, objects inscribed with Phoenician writing began to be brought into the Greek world, and it was from this Phoenician script that the Greek alphabet developed in the eighth century BC. By the middle of the eighth century BC, pottery inscribed in Greek begins to occur in the archaeological record.\n\nThe earliest known inscriptions in Greek tend to identify or explain the object on which they are inscribed. Possibly the earliest known Greek inscription is found on a jug from the first half of the eighth century BC, discovered in Osteria dell'Osa in Latium. Most early inscriptions were written in verse, though some from Ionia were in prose, influenced by the prose traditions of Ionia's eastern neighbours. From the beginning of the seventh century, curses and dedications began to be inscribed on objects, and by the sixth century, surviving inscriptions include public records such as law codes, lists of officials, and records of treaties.\n\nIn the Archaic period, the most significant military development was the adoption of hoplite warfare by the Greek states. This occurred in the early part of the seventh century BC. The panoply, or hoplite's armour, began to appear in the eighth century, and the earliest known example comes from Argos in the late eighth century.\n\nWhile the pieces which made up the panoply were all in use in Greece by the end of the eighth century, our first evidence for it being worn as a complete set of armour does not come until around 675 BC, where it is depicted on a Corinthian vase painting. The adoption of the phalanx tactics which would be used by hoplites in the Classical period does not appear to have taken place until the mid-seventh century; before this point, the older style of combat in which spears were thrown at the enemy before closing quarters was still used.\n\nIn the naval sphere, the Archaic period saw the development of the trireme in Greece. In the eighth century, Greek navies began to use ships with two banks of oars, and the three banked trireme seems to have become popular in the seventh century. Corinth was probably the first place in the Greek world to adopt the trireme in the mid seventh century BC. It was not until the mid-sixth century, however, that the trireme became the most popular design for Greek battleships, due to its expense. According to Thucydides, the period saw the first Greek naval battles; he dates the first to around 664 BC.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39242447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39242447", "title": "Artists For World Peace", "text": "Artists For World Peace\n\nArtists For World Peace (AFWP) is a registered 501(c)(3) non-profit grassroots organization based in Middletown, Connecticut, USA. It is a community of artists and activists working to feed the hungry, house the poor, and encourage peace throughout the world.\n\nSince 2003, Artists For World Peace has organized numerous events and performances to raise money for their ongoing efforts with the International Peace Belt and humanitarian efforts in Tanzania, Brazil, Haiti and locally in Connecticut. Wendy Black Nasta serves as the executive director, she is also the founder of AFWP.\n\nAFWP's governing board is composed of Wendy Black Nasta as the President, Jennifer Lia as Treasurer, Jane Bance Homick as Secretary and an advisory Council of Elders.\n\nArtists For World Peace has created a curated a number of performances.\n\nAFWP on Broadway is an annual event held in New York, New York. Broadway performers from various shows come together for one night every year to raise money for the humanitarian projects that Artists For World Peace produces.\n\nIn 2011, the first AFWP on Broadway was held on November 6, at the Helen Mills Theater in New York City.\n\nIn 2012, AFWP on Broadway 2 was accompanied with a silent auction, and a display of four works painted by the Fashion Institute of Technology’s delegation to Art Basel Miami make up the backdrop of the stage. The participating artists worked in paris: Melissa Starke & Garrett Klein, Eric Gottshall & Lydia Maria Pfeffer, Kenneth Park & Slavko Djuric, and Valentina Burzanovic & Jennifer L. Torres. The Broadway performers for the evening were; Deanna Aguinaga, Stephen Carrasco, Andrew Chappelle, Adrienne Jean Fisher, Andrea Goss, Monica Kapoor, Raymond J. Lee, Carrie Manolakos, Marissa McGowan, Paul HeeSang Miller, Ryann Redmon, Sharone Sayegh, L. Steven Taylor, Traci Victoria, Blake Whyte, Alex Wyse, and Leah Zepel.\n\nThe 2013 AFWP on Broadway 3 was held on October 13, at New York City's 54 Below. Among the performing artists was singer/actress Allison Strong.\n\nThe 2014 AFWP on Broadway 4 was held on October 5 at New York City's Joe's Pub at the public theater.\n\nThe 2015 AFWP on Broadway 5 was held on October 11, at New York City's Joe's Pub at the acclaimed public theater.\n\nChildren of Peace is a program established by AFWP to pay for the living and educational expenses of children all over the world. This initiative supports kids in China, Haiti, India, and Tanzania. Under the Children of Peace umbrella, they have also helped Haitian students travel to Brazil, where they are pursuing higher education unavailable in their home country. The children in the program from Kibosho, Tanzania attend the Mlama Secondary School in Kibosho Umbwe. The other children attend the Moshi Academy in Moshi.\nPeace Pig Club is a partnership with the Good Hope Trust in Kibosho Umbwe, Tanzania. The objective of the project is to provide animal protein to the center community, and to raise income to support the cost of running the center. The project is located at the orphanage centre at Kibosho Umbew, Onana Village, Moshi District, Kilimanjaro region. It is a way for the community to become self-sufficient.\n\nIn 2012 AFWP also raised the funds to support the Community Health Center in Kibosho Umbwe.\n\nIn the past AFWP created the Santa Clara Scholarship Endowment Fund, created a safe house for women and children in Cambodia, delivered 500 pairs of shoes up the Amazon waterway to the indigenous Shuar children in Ecuador, and assisted in the building of the Amazon Refuge School.\n\nAFWP delivers art scholarships to students attending Middlesex Community College in Middletown, Connecticut.\n\n"}
{"id": "29066734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29066734", "title": "AustLit: The Australian Literature Resource", "text": "AustLit: The Australian Literature Resource\n\nAustLit: The Australian Literature Resource is an internet-based collaboration between researchers and librarians from Australian universities designed to comprehensively record the history of Australian literary and story making cultures. \"AustLit\" is an encyclopaedia of Australian writers and writing.\n\n\"AustLit\" was founded in 2000 as a resource and research infrastructure for literary studies. It has been funded by participating universities and the Australian Research Council. The University of Queensland leads the consortium. Partner universities include the University of New South Wales, the University of Sydney, Flinders University, the University of Wollongong, James Cook University, and the University of Western Australia. Significant levels of research and teaching in the field are undertaken at all partner universities. \n\n\"AustLit\" publishes biographical entries and brief essays on Australian writers, critics and storytellers, organisational histories relating to publishers, theatre companies and other arts organisations, and complete bibliographical histories of works of fiction and criticism. It also has an active digitisation program to generate full text versions of out-of-print literary works and critical articles about Australian literature. \n\n\"AustLit Research Communities\" support detailed explorations of particular aspects of Australia's literary culture. Researchers can work within \"AustLit\" to create datasets around a specific field. These projects range across book, magazine and publishing histories, subject specific surveys of regionally based publishing and thematically based subsets. Research into the history of Australian popular and pulp fiction is supported alongside research into theatre history, drama and multicultural writers. \"BlackWords\" is a landmark \"AustLit\" research project that details the lives and work of Indigenous Australian authors, which includes Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander writers and storytellers. \n\n\"AustLit\" has become a key information resource for the study of Australian literature and related fields. Because of its status as the most comprehensive record of a nation's publishing history, \"AustLit\" has become an important source of data for analysing Australian literary history.\n"}
{"id": "44866595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44866595", "title": "Cardillac (film)", "text": "Cardillac (film)\n\nCardillac is a 1969 West German drama film directed by Edgar Reitz, starring Hans-Christian Blech and Catana Cayetano. It tells the story of a goldsmith who is so obsessed with his own craft that he murders his customers. The film is a modern adaptation of E. T. A. Hoffmann's novella \"Mademoiselle de Scuderi\".\n\n\nThe film premiered on 28 August 1969 at the 30th Venice International Film Festival. It was released in West Germany on 1 March 1970.\n"}
{"id": "45686865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45686865", "title": "Chicago Athenaeum", "text": "Chicago Athenaeum\n\nThe Chicago Athenaeum is an international museum of architecture and design, based in Chicago, Illinois. The museum focuses on the art of design in all areas of the discipline: architecture, industrial and product design, graphics, landscape architecture, and urban planning.\nAmong its goals is to advance public education on how design can positively impact the human environment.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1988 in Chicago and later on developed satellite extensions in Schaumburg, Illinois and Galena, Illinois. In Schaumburg, the Museum maintains a 20-acre International Sculpture Park with important works of contemporary art from Poland, Israel, Finland, Norway, Germany, Greece and Switzerland.\n\nThe museum aims to improve public knowledge and awareness on architecture and design, and how these two fields can affect human environment and the quality of life. It has held exhibitions on architecture and design in several countries, and also holds several international programs abroad. It currently maintains offices and operations in Chicago, Schaumburg, and Galena, Illinois, as well as Dublin, Ireland and Athens, Greece.\n\nEvery year, the museum organizes Good Design Award, which were founded in Chicago in 1950. The Museum also co-organizes the American Architecture Awards, the American Prize for Architecture, the International Architecture Awards, and the Green Good Design Awards together with the European Centre for Architecture Art Design and Urban Studies.\n\nThe museum's president is Christian Narkiewicz-Laine. The vice president is Ioannis Karalias who is also chief curator and director of design; the director of administration is Lary Sommers, and the director in Europe and COO is Kieran Conlon.\n\n"}
{"id": "25470918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25470918", "title": "Ciné-Asie Creatives", "text": "Ciné-Asie Creatives\n\nCiné-Asie Creatives was established in 2008 as a sister company of Ciné-Asie. The company is dedicated to sales and distribution of Asian films in Canada and Canadian films in Asia, as well as international co-production and location scouting in Quebec, Canada.\n\nThe first feature film in distribution by Cine-Asie Creatives was the Korean blockbuster disaster film, Haeundae. Currently Ciné-Asie Creatives is in possession of the Canadian distribution rights to two Korean Films: My Dear Enemy (2008) by Lee Yoon-ki and Breathless (2009) by Yang Ik-june. Ciné-Asie Creatives is also working on a feature film co-production project: Midnight to Four AM. In addition, Ciné-Asie Creatives acts as a sales agent for three films by the Inuit-Canadian director Zacharias Kunuk. Ciné-Asie Creatives has also established a cooperation with HanCinema, the largest and most comprehensive digital English database on the Korean TV and movie industry.\n\nIn June 2009, Ciné-Asie Creatives acquired the Canadian distribution rights to My Dear Enemy, a feature film from the Korean director Lee Yoon-ki (Love Talk, This Charming Girl). Ciné-Asie Creatives has also acquired the Canadian rights to its second distribution title, Breathless, by first-time director Yang Ik-june.\n\nSince September 2009, Ciné-Asie Creatives is a representative of three films by the internationally acclaimed Inuit-Canadian director, Zacharias Kunuk, for distribution in Asian territories: \"\", \"Before Tomorrow\" and \"The Journals of Knud Rasmussen\".\n\nIn October 2009, Ciné-Asie Creatives co-release Korean blockbuster Haeundae in cooperation with CJ Entertainment America in Canadian theatres in Montreal and Toronto.\n\nCiné-Asie Creatives's first co-production project is an omnibus feature film, composed of six short films each shot by six different directors from Asia or of Asian origin. Countries currently participating include Canada, Korea, and Japan. The omnibus project has also been selected for the Pusan Promotion Plan at the Pusan International Film Festival 2009.\n"}
{"id": "712384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712384", "title": "Cityscape", "text": "Cityscape\n\nIn the visual arts a cityscape (urban landscape) is an artistic representation, such as a painting, drawing, print or photograph, of the physical aspects of a city or urban area. It is the urban equivalent of a landscape. \"Townscape\" is roughly synonymous with \"cityscape,\" though it implies the same difference in urban size and density (and even modernity) implicit in the difference between the words \"city\" and \"town\". In urban design the terms refer to the configuration of built forms and interstitial space. \n\nFrom the first century A.D. dates a fresco at the Baths of Trajan in Rome depicting a bird's eye view of an ancient city. In the Middle Ages, cityscapes appeared as a background for portraits and biblical themes. From the 16th up to the 18th century numerous copperplate prints and etchings were made showing cities in bird's eye view. The function of these prints was to provide a map-like overview.\n\nHalfway the 17th century the cityscape became an independent genre in the Netherlands. In his famous 'View of Delft' in 1660-1661 Jan Vermeer painted a quite accurate portrait of the city Delft. Cities like Amsterdam, Haarlem and The Hague also became popular subjects for paintings. Painters from other European countries (i.e. Great Britain, France, Germany) followed the Dutch example. The 18th century was a flourishing period for cityscape painting in Venice (Canaletto, Guardi).\n\nAt the end of the 19th century the impressionists focused on the atmosphere and dynamics of everyday life in the city. Suburban and industrial areas, building sites and railway yards also became subjects for cityscapes. During the 20th century attention became focused on abstract and conceptual art, and thus the production of cityscapes declined. American painter Edward Hopper, who stayed loyal to figurative painting, created intriguing images of the American scene. With a revival of figurative art at the end of the 20th century comes a revaluation of the cityscape. Well-known living cityscape painters are Rackstraw Downes, Antonio López García, and Richard Estes. American artist Yvonne Jacquette has made a specialty of aerial cityscapes. Stephen Wiltshire, a London born artist with autism, is known for his panoramic cityscape renderings composed from memory, usually after taking a short overhead view of the city he is about to draw.\n\n"}
{"id": "19419680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19419680", "title": "Clinic Exclusive", "text": "Clinic Exclusive\n\nClinic Exclusive (UK theatrical title: \"Clinic Xclusive\"; working title \"With These Hands\"; re-released as \"Sex Clinic\") is a 1971 British erotic film directed by Don Chaffey and starring Georgina Ward, Alexander Davion, Carmen Silvera and Windsor Davies.\n\nJulie Mason (Georgina Ward) abuses her position as the owner of a private health clinic by selling sexual favours to her male clients, whom she then blackmails for large amounts of money. At the same time, she resists the sexual advances of Elsa Farson (Carmen Silvera), a lonely, older woman.\n\nWhen businessman Lee Maitland (Alexander Davion) engages her services, Julie, who wants to make a new life for herself, is taken by her new client and quickly becomes his fiancée. Meanwhile, barred from visiting Julie, Farson is driven to suicide.\n\nJulie is drawn into Maitland's plan to make them both rich, unaware that he is actually Farson's son and intends to avenge his mother. The film ends with Maitland, having faked his death in a road accident that Julie helped to create, disappearing with tens of thousands of pounds that Julie had extracted from her clients. Julie is left to choose between admitting blackmail or remaining silent and being charged with Maitland's murder.\n\n\nThe film was written and produced by Hazel Adair and Kent Walton under the joint pseudonym \"Elton Hawke\". Many of the cast had appeared in either \"Crossroads\" or \"Compact\", soap operas co-created by Adair.\n\n\"Clinic Exclusive\" marks the film debut of Carmen Silvera, later known for her role as Edith Artois in the BBC TV sitcom \"Allo! Allo!\".\n\nOriginally titled \"Clinic Xclusive\", the film was re-released in May 1975 as \"Sex Clinic\".\n\nWriting for \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" in 1972, critic Nigel Andrews described the film as \"quite a neat, unpredictable revenge thriller\", praising its \"glossily efficient\" script and direction as well as the performance of Ward. He concluded that \"Clinic Exclusive\" is \"altogether a surprisingly competent production, if only within the limits of its strictly genre\".\n"}
{"id": "302812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302812", "title": "Color vision", "text": "Color vision\n\nColor vision is the ability of an organism or machine to distinguish objects based on the wavelengths (or frequencies) of the light they reflect, emit, or transmit. Colors can be measured and quantified in various ways; indeed, a person's perception of colors is a subjective process whereby the brain responds to the stimuli that are produced when incoming light reacts with the several types of cone cells in the eye. In essence, different people see the same illuminated object or light source in different ways.\n\nIsaac Newton discovered that white light, after being split into its component colours when passed through a dispersive prism, could be recombined to make white light by passing them through a different prism. \n\nThe characteristic colours are, from long to short wavelengths (and, correspondingly, from low to high frequency), red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. Sufficient differences in wavelength cause a difference in the perceived hue; the just-noticeable difference in wavelength varies from about 1 nm in the blue-green and yellow wavelengths, to 10 nm and more in the longer red and shorter blue wavelengths. Although the human eye can distinguish up to a few hundred hues, when those pure spectral colors are mixed together or diluted with white light, the number of distinguishable chromaticities can be quite high.\n\nIn very low light levels, vision is scotopic: light is detected by rod cells of the retina. Rods are maximally sensitive to wavelengths near 500 nm, and play little, if any, role in colour vision. In brighter light, such as daylight, vision is photopic: light is detected by cone cells which are responsible for colour vision. Cones are sensitive to a range of wavelengths, but are most sensitive to wavelengths near 555 nm. Between these regions, mesopic vision comes into play and both rods and cones provide signals to the retinal ganglion cells. The shift in colour perception from dim light to daylight gives rise to differences known as the Purkinje effect\n\nThe perception of \"white\" is formed by the entire spectrum of visible light, or by mixing colours of just a few wavelengths in animals with few types of colour receptors. In humans, white light can be perceived by combining wavelengths such as red, green, and blue, or just a pair of complementary colours such as blue and yellow.\n\nPerception of color begins with specialized retinal cells containing pigments with different spectral sensitivities, known as cone cells. In humans, there are three types of cones sensitive to three different spectra, resulting in trichromatic color vision.\n\nEach individual cone contains pigments composed of opsin apoprotein, which is covalently linked to either 11-cis-hydroretinal or more rarely 11-cis-dehydroretinal.\n\nThe cones are conventionally labeled according to the ordering of the wavelengths of the peaks of their spectral sensitivities: short (S), medium (M), and long (L) cone types. These three types do not correspond well to particular colors as we know them. Rather, the perception of color is achieved by a complex process that starts with the differential output of these cells in the retina and it will be finalized in the visual cortex and associative areas of the brain.\n\nFor example, while the L cones have been referred to simply as red receptors, microspectrophotometry has shown that their peak sensitivity is in the greenish-yellow region of the spectrum. Similarly, the S- and M-cones do not directly correspond to blue and green, although they are often described as such. The RGB color model, therefore, is a convenient means for representing color, but is not directly based on the types of cones in the human eye.\n\nThe peak response of human cone cells varies, even among individuals with so-called normal color vision;\nin some non-human species this polymorphic variation is even greater, and it may well be adaptive.\n\nTwo complementary theories of color vision are the trichromatic theory and the opponent process theory. The trichromatic theory, or Young–Helmholtz theory, proposed in the 19th century by Thomas Young and Hermann von Helmholtz, as mentioned above, states that the retina's three types of cones are preferentially sensitive to blue, green, and red. Ewald Hering proposed the opponent process theory in 1872. It states that the visual system interprets color in an antagonistic way: red vs. green, blue vs. yellow, black vs. white. Both theories are now accepted as valid, describing different stages in visual physiology, visualized in the adjacent diagram. Green←→Magenta and Blue←→Yellow are scales with mutually exclusive boundaries. In the same way that there cannot exist a \"slightly negative\" positive number, a single eye cannot perceive a bluish-yellow or a reddish-green.\n\nA range of wavelengths of light stimulates each of these receptor types to varying degrees. Yellowish-green light, for example, stimulates both L and M cones equally strongly, but only stimulates S-cones weakly. Red light, on the other hand, stimulates L cones much more than M cones, and S cones hardly at all; blue-green light stimulates M cones more than L cones, and S cones a bit more strongly, and is also the peak stimulant for rod cells; and blue light stimulates S cones more strongly than red or green light, but L and M cones more weakly. The brain combines the information from each type of receptor to give rise to different perceptions of different wavelengths of light.\n\nThe opsins (photopigments) present in the L and M cones are encoded on the X chromosome; defective encoding of these leads to the two most common forms of color blindness. The OPN1LW gene, which codes for the opsin present in the L cones, is highly polymorphic (a recent study by Verrelli and Tishkoff found 85 variants in a sample of 236 men). A very small percentage of women may have an extra type of color receptor because they have different alleles for the gene for the L opsin on each X chromosome. X chromosome inactivation means that while only one opsin is expressed in each cone cell, both types occur overall, and some women may therefore show a degree of tetrachromatic color vision. Variations in OPN1MW, which codes the opsin expressed in M cones, appear to be rare, and the observed variants have no effect on spectral sensitivity.\n\nColor processing begins at a very early level in the visual system (even within the retina) through initial color opponent mechanisms. Both Helmholtz's trichromatic theory, and Hering's opponent process theory are therefore correct, but trichromacy arises at the level of the receptors, and opponent processes arise at the level of retinal ganglion cells and beyond. In Hering's theory opponent mechanisms refer to the opposing color effect of red–green, blue–yellow, and light–dark. However, in the visual system, it is the activity of the different receptor types that are opposed. Some midget retinal ganglion cells oppose L and M cone activity, which corresponds loosely to red–green opponency, but actually runs along an axis from blue-green to magenta. Small bistratified retinal ganglion cells oppose input from the S cones to input from the L and M cones. This is often thought to correspond to blue–yellow opponency, but actually runs along a color axis from yellow-green to violet.\n\nVisual information is then sent to the brain from retinal ganglion cells via the optic nerve to the optic chiasma: a point where the two optic nerves meet and information from the temporal (contralateral) visual field crosses to the other side of the brain. After the optic chiasma the visual tracts are referred to as the optic tracts, which enter the thalamus to synapse at the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN).\n\nThe lateral geniculate nucleus is divided into laminae (zones), of which there are three types: the M-laminae, consisting primarily of M-cells, the P-laminae, consisting primarily of P-cells, and the koniocellular laminae. M- and P-cells receive relatively balanced input from both L- and M-cones throughout most of the retina, although this seems to not be the case at the fovea, with midget cells synapsing in the P-laminae. The koniocellular laminae receive axons from the small bistratified ganglion cells.\n\nAfter synapsing at the LGN, the visual tract continues on back to the primary visual cortex (V1) located at the back of the brain within the occipital lobe. Within V1 there is a distinct band (striation). This is also referred to as \"striate cortex\", with other cortical visual regions referred to collectively as \"extrastriate cortex\". It is at this stage that color processing becomes much more complicated.\n\nIn V1 the simple three-color segregation begins to break down. Many cells in V1 respond to some parts of the spectrum better than others, but this \"color tuning\" is often different depending on the adaptation state of the visual system. A given cell that might respond best to long wavelength light if the light is relatively bright might then become responsive to all wavelengths if the stimulus is relatively dim. Because the color tuning of these cells is not stable, some believe that a different, relatively small, population of neurons in V1 is responsible for color vision. These specialized \"color cells\" often have receptive fields that can compute local cone ratios. Such \"double-opponent\" cells were initially described in the goldfish retina by Nigel Daw; their existence in primates was suggested by David H. Hubel and Torsten Wiesel and subsequently proven by Bevil Conway. As Margaret Livingstone and David Hubel showed, double opponent cells are clustered within localized regions of V1 called blobs, and are thought to come in two flavors, red–green and blue–yellow. Red–green cells compare the relative amounts of red–green in one part of a scene with the amount of red–green in an adjacent part of the scene, responding best to local color contrast (red next to green). Modeling studies have shown that double-opponent cells are ideal candidates for the neural machinery of color constancy explained by Edwin H. Land in his retinex theory.\nFrom the V1 blobs, color information is sent to cells in the second visual area, V2. The cells in V2 that are most strongly color tuned are clustered in the \"thin stripes\" that, like the blobs in V1, stain for the enzyme cytochrome oxidase (separating the thin stripes are interstripes and thick stripes, which seem to be concerned with other visual information like motion and high-resolution form). Neurons in V2 then synapse onto cells in the extended V4. This area includes not only V4, but two other areas in the posterior inferior temporal cortex, anterior to area V3, the dorsal posterior inferior temporal cortex, and posterior TEO. Area V4 was initially suggested by Semir Zeki to be exclusively dedicated to color, but this is now thought to be incorrect. In particular, the presence in V4 of orientation-selective cells led to the view that V4 is involved in processing both color and form associated with color. Color processing in the extended V4 occurs in millimeter-sized color modules called globs. This is the first part of the brain in which color is processed in terms of the full range of hues found in color space.\n\nAnatomical studies have shown that neurons in extended V4 provide input to the inferior temporal lobe . \"IT\" cortex is thought to integrate color information with shape and form, although it has been difficult to define the appropriate criteria for this claim. Despite this murkiness, it has been useful to characterize this pathway (V1 > V2 > V4 > IT) as the ventral stream or the \"what pathway\", distinguished from the dorsal stream (\"where pathway\") that is thought to analyze motion, among many other features.\n\nNothing categorically distinguishes the visible spectrum of electromagnetic radiation from invisible portions of the broader spectrum. In this sense, color is not a property of electromagnetic radiation, but a feature of visual perception by an observer. Furthermore, there is an arbitrary mapping between wavelengths of light in the visual spectrum and human experiences of color. Although most people are assumed to have the same mapping, the philosopher John Locke recognized that alternatives are possible, and described one such hypothetical case with the \"inverted spectrum\" thought experiment. For example, someone with an inverted spectrum might experience green while seeing 'red' (700 nm) light, and experience red while seeing 'green' (530 nm) light. Synesthesia (or ideasthesia) provides some atypical but illuminating examples of subjective color experience triggered by input that is not even light, such as sounds or shapes. The possibility of a clean dissociation between color experience from properties of the world reveals that color is a subjective psychological phenomenon.\n\nThe Himba people have been found to categorize colors differently from most Euro-Americans and are able to easily distinguish close shades of green, barely discernible for most people. The Himba have created a very different color scheme which divides the spectrum to dark shades (\"zuzu\" in Himba), very light (\"vapa\"), vivid blue and green (\"buru\") and dry colors as an adaptation to their specific way of life.\n\nPerception of color depends heavily on the context in which the perceived object is presented. For example, a white page under blue, pink, or purple light will reflect mostly blue, pink, or purple light to the eye, respectively; the brain, however, compensates for the effect of lighting (based on the color shift of surrounding objects) and is more likely to interpret the page as white under all three conditions, a phenomenon known as color constancy.\n\nMany species can see light with frequencies outside the human \"visible spectrum\". Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light, which helps them to find nectar in flowers. Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to ultraviolet \"colors\" and patterns rather than how colorful they appear to humans. Birds, too, can see into the ultraviolet (300–400 nm), and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range. Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range, however, cannot see red light or any other reddish wavelengths. For example, bees' visible spectrum ends at about 590 nm, just before the orange wavelengths start. Birds, however, can see some red wavelengths, although not as far into the light spectrum as humans. It is an incorrect popular belief that the common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infrared and ultraviolet light; their color vision extends into the ultraviolet but not the infrared.\n\nThe basis for this variation is the number of cone types that differ between species. Mammals in general have color vision of a limited type, and usually have red-green color blindness, with only two types of cones. Humans, some primates, and some marsupials see an extended range of colors, but only by comparison with other mammals. Most non-mammalian vertebrate species distinguish different colors at least as well as humans, and many species of birds, fish, reptiles and amphibians, and some invertebrates, have more than three cone types and probably superior color vision to humans.\n\nIn most Catarrhini (Old World monkeys and apes—primates closely related to humans) there are three types of color receptors (known as cone cells), resulting in trichromatic color vision. These primates, like humans, are known as trichromats. Many other primates (including New World monkeys) and other mammals are dichromats, which is the general color vision state for mammals that are active during the day (i.e., felines, canines, ungulates). Nocturnal mammals may have little or no color vision. Trichromat non-primate mammals are rare.\n\nMany invertebrates have color vision. Honeybees and bumblebees have trichromatic color vision which is insensitive to red but sensitive to ultraviolet. \"Osmia rufa\", for example, possess a trichromatic color system, which they use in foraging for pollen from flowers. In view of the importance of color vision to bees one might expect these receptor sensitivities to reflect their specific visual ecology; for example the types of flowers that they visit. However, the main groups of hymenopteran insects excluding ants (i.e., bees, wasps and sawflies) mostly have three types of photoreceptor, with spectral sensitivities similar to the honeybee's.\" Papilio\" butterflies possess six types of photoreceptors and may have pentachromatic vision. The most complex color vision system in the animal kingdom has been found in stomatopods (such as the mantis shrimp) with up to 12 spectral receptor types thought to work as multiple dichromatic units.\n\nVertebrate animals such as tropical fish and birds sometimes have more complex color vision systems than humans; thus the many subtle colors they exhibit generally serve as direct signals for other fish or birds, and not to signal mammals. In bird vision, tetrachromacy is achieved through up to four cone types, depending on species. Each single cone contains one of the four main types of vertebrate cone photopigment (LWS/ MWS, RH2, SWS2 and SWS1) and has a colored oil droplet in its inner segment. Brightly colored oil droplets inside the cones shift or narrow the spectral sensitivity of the cell. It has been suggested that it is likely that pigeons are pentachromats.\n\nReptiles and amphibians also have four cone types (occasionally five), and probably see at least the same number of colors that humans do, or perhaps more. In addition, some nocturnal geckos have the capability of seeing color in dim light.\n\nIn the evolution of mammals, segments of color vision were lost, then for a few species of primates, regained by gene duplication. Eutherian mammals other than primates (for example, dogs, mammalian farm animals) generally have less-effective two-receptor (dichromatic) color perception systems, which distinguish blue, green, and yellow—but cannot distinguish oranges and reds. There is some evidence that a few mammals, such as cats, have redeveloped the ability to distinguish longer wavelength colors, in at least a limited way, via one-amino-acid mutations in opsin genes. The adaptation to see reds is particularly important for primate mammals, since it leads to identification of fruits, and also newly sprouting reddish leaves, which are particularly nutritious.\n\nHowever, even among primates, full color vision differs between New World and Old World monkeys. Old World primates, including monkeys and all apes, have vision similar to humans. New World monkeys may or may not have color sensitivity at this level: in most species, males are dichromats, and about 60% of females are trichromats, but the owl monkeys are cone monochromats, and both sexes of howler monkeys are trichromats. Visual sensitivity differences between males and females in a single species is due to the gene for yellow-green sensitive opsin protein (which confers ability to differentiate red from green) residing on the X sex chromosome.\n\nSeveral marsupials such as the fat-tailed dunnart (\"Sminthopsis crassicaudata\") have been shown to have trichromatic color vision.\n\nMarine mammals, adapted for low-light vision, have only a single cone type and are thus monochromats.\n\nColor perception mechanisms are highly dependent on evolutionary factors, of which the most prominent is thought to be satisfactory recognition of food sources. In herbivorous primates, color perception is essential for finding proper (immature) leaves. In hummingbirds, particular flower types are often recognized by color as well. On the other hand, nocturnal mammals have less-developed color vision, since adequate light is needed for cones to function properly. There is evidence that ultraviolet light plays a part in color perception in many branches of the animal kingdom, especially insects. In general, the optical spectrum encompasses the most common electronic transitions in matter and is therefore the most useful for collecting information about the environment.\n\nThe evolution of trichromatic color vision in primates occurred as the ancestors of modern monkeys, apes, and humans switched to diurnal (daytime) activity and began consuming fruits and leaves from flowering plants. Color vision, with UV discrimination, is also present in a number of arthropods—the only terrestrial animals besides the vertebrates to possess this trait.\n\nSome animals can distinguish colors in the ultraviolet spectrum. The UV spectrum falls outside the human visible range, except for some cataract surgery patients. Birds, turtles, lizards, many fish and some rodents have UV receptors in their retinas. These animals can see the UV patterns found on flowers and other wildlife that are otherwise invisible to the human eye.\n\nUltraviolet vision is an especially important adaptation in birds. It allows birds to spot small prey from a distance, navigate, avoid predators, and forage while flying at high speeds. Birds also utilize their broad spectrum vision to recognize other birds, and in sexual selection.\n\nA \"physical color\" is a combination of pure spectral colors (in the visible range). Since there are, in principle, infinitely many distinct spectral colors, the set of all physical colors may be thought of as an infinite-dimensional vector space, in fact a Hilbert space. We call this space \"H\". More technically, the space of physical colors may be considered to be the (mathematical) cone over the simplex whose vertices are the spectral colors, with white at the centroid of the simplex, black at the apex of the cone, and the monochromatic color associated with any given vertex somewhere along the line from that vertex to the apex depending on its brightness.\n\nAn element \"C\" of \"H\" is a function from the range of visible wavelengths—considered as an interval of real numbers [\"W\",\"W\"]—to the real numbers, assigning to each wavelength \"w\" in [\"W\",\"W\"] its intensity \"C\"(\"w\").\n\nA humanly perceived color may be modeled as three numbers: the extents to which each of the 3 types of cones is stimulated. Thus a humanly perceived color may be thought of as a point in 3-dimensional Euclidean space. We call this space R.\n\nSince each wavelength \"w\" stimulates each of the 3 types of cone cells to a known extent, these extents may be represented by 3 functions \"s\"(\"w\"), \"m\"(\"w\"), \"l\"(\"w\") corresponding to the response of the \"S\", \"M\", and \"L\" cone cells, respectively.\n\nFinally, since a beam of light can be composed of many different wavelengths, to determine the extent to which a physical color \"C\" in \"H\" stimulates each cone cell, we must calculate the integral (with respect to \"w\"), over the interval [\"W\",\"W\"], of \"C\"(\"w\")·\"s\"(\"w\"), of \"C\"(\"w\")·\"m\"(\"w\"), and of \"C\"(\"w\")·\"l\"(\"w\"). The triple of resulting numbers associates with each physical color \"C\" (which is an element in \"H\") a particular perceived color (which is a single point in R). This association is easily seen to be linear. It may also easily be seen that many different elements in the \"physical\" space \"H\" can all result in the same single perceived color in R, so a perceived color is not unique to one physical color.\n\nThus human color perception is determined by a specific, non-unique linear mapping from the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space \"H\" to the 3-dimensional Euclidean space R.\n\nTechnically, the image of the (mathematical) cone over the simplex whose vertices are the spectral colors, by this linear mapping, is also a (mathematical) cone in R. Moving directly away from the vertex of this cone represents maintaining the same chromaticity while increasing its intensity. Taking a cross-section of this cone yields a 2D chromaticity space. Both the 3D cone and its projection or cross-section are convex sets; that is, any mixture of spectral colors is also a color.\n\nIn practice, it would be quite difficult to physiologically measure an individual's three cone responses to various physical color stimuli. Instead, a psychophysical approach is taken. Three specific benchmark test lights are typically used; let us call them \"S\", \"M\", and \"L\". To calibrate human perceptual space, scientists allowed human subjects to try to match any physical color by turning dials to create specific combinations of intensities (\"I\", \"I\", \"I\") for the \"S\", \"M\", and \"L\" lights, resp., until a match was found. This needed only to be done for physical colors that are spectral, since a linear combination of spectral colors will be matched by the same linear combination of their (\"I\", \"I\", \"I\") matches. Note that in practice, often at least one of \"S\", \"M\", \"L\" would have to be added with some intensity to the \"physical test color\", and that combination matched by a linear combination of the remaining 2 lights. Across different individuals (without color blindness), the matchings turned out to be nearly identical.\n\nBy considering all the resulting combinations of intensities (\"I\", \"I\", \"I\") as a subset of 3-space, a model for human perceptual color space is formed. (Note that when one of \"S\", \"M\", \"L\" had to be added to the test color, its intensity was counted as negative.) Again, this turns out to be a (mathematical) cone, not a quadric, but rather all rays through the origin in 3-space passing through a certain convex set. Again, this cone has the property that moving directly away from the origin corresponds to increasing the intensity of the \"S\", \"M\", \"L\" lights proportionately. Again, a cross-section of this cone is a planar shape that is (by definition) the space of \"chromaticities\" (informally: distinct colors); one particular such cross section, corresponding to constant \"X\"+\"Y\"+\"Z\" of the CIE 1931 color space, gives the CIE chromaticity diagram.\n\nThis system implies that for any hue or non-spectral color not on the boundary of the chromaticity diagram, there are infinitely many distinct physical spectra that are all perceived as that hue or color. So, in general there is no such thing as \"the\" combination of spectral colors that we perceive as (say) a specific version of tan; instead there are infinitely many possibilities that produce that exact color. The boundary colors that are pure spectral colors can be perceived only in response to light that is purely at the associated wavelength, while the boundary colors on the \"line of purples\" can each only be generated by a specific ratio of the pure violet and the pure red at the ends of the visible spectral colors.\n\nThe CIE chromaticity diagram is horseshoe-shaped, with its curved edge corresponding to all spectral colors (the \"spectral locus\"), and the remaining straight edge corresponding to the most saturated purples, mixtures of red and violet.\n\nIn color science, chromatic adaptation is the estimation of the representation of an object under a different light source from the one in which it was recorded. A common application is to find a \"chromatic adaptation transform\" (CAT) that will make the recording of a neutral object appear neutral (color balance), while keeping other colors also looking realistic. For example, chromatic adaptation transforms are used when converting images between ICC profiles with different white points. Adobe Photoshop, for example, uses the Bradford CAT.\n\nIn color vision, chromatic adaptation refers to color constancy; the ability of the visual system to preserve the appearance of an object under a wide range of light sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3302720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302720", "title": "ComicBase", "text": "ComicBase\n\nComicBase is a computer program for tracking comic book collections. It was created in 1992 by Peter Bickford as an Apple Macintosh program. A Windows version was introduced in 1996. As of February 2015, it is on its nineteenth version (dubbed ComicBase 2017) and is available for computers running Microsoft Windows Windows 7, and later. Its database includes pricing and notes on over 800,000 individual comic book issues, and allows users to sell their comics online at a website marketplace called Atomic Avenue.\n\nComicBase 2017 includes a \"My Comics\" web app which uses works in conjunction with the desktop software to allow users to view and update their collections on virtually any mobile device through the use of responsive design techniques, including Apple, Windows, and Android smartphones and tablets, as well as devices like the PSP and Kindle. This feature was introduced with ComicBase 2015. Purchases can be recorded in the mobile web app either by entering in the comics title and issue, or by taking a picture of the comic's barcode using a mobile device's camera.\n\nComicBase was the first software available on Blu-ray disc.\n"}
{"id": "1148117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1148117", "title": "Comic book death", "text": "Comic book death\n\nIn the comic book fan community, the apparent death and subsequent return of a long-running character is often called a comic book death. A comic book death is generally not taken seriously by readers and is rarely permanent or meaningful other than for story or thematic purposes.\n\nCommenting on the impact and role of comic book character deaths, writer Geoff Johns said:\n\nThe phenomenon of comic book death is particularly common for superhero characters. Writer Danny Fingeroth suggests that the nature of superheroes requires that they be both ageless and immortal.\n\nA common expression regarding comic book death was once \"The only people who stay dead in comics are Bucky, Jason Todd, and Uncle Ben,\" referring to the seminal importance of those characters' deaths to the title character: Captain America's sidekick (retconned dead in 1964), Batman's second Robin (dead in 1988), and Spider-Man's uncle (dead since 1962), respectively. This long-held tenet was broken in 2005, when Jason Todd returned to life as the Red Hood and Bucky was reported to have survived the accident that seemingly killed him, brought back in 2005 as the Winter Soldier, remaining in the shadows for decades. Barnes apparently died again in 2011 after a short tenure as Captain America, only to be revived by Nick Fury's Infinity Formula.\n\nBecause death in comics is so often temporary, readers rarely take the death of a character seriously—when a character dies, the reader feels very little sense of loss, and simply left wondering how long it will be before they return to life.\n\nAlthough several comic book deaths are well-known, two of the best-known are the 1980 \"death\" of Jean Grey in Marvel's \"Dark Phoenix Saga\" and that of Superman in DC's highly publicized 1993 \"Death of Superman\" storyline. There is one major distinction between the two, however—whereas it was never intended that Superman's death be permanent, but rather that he would return to life at the conclusion of the story, Jean's passing was intended to be permanent, as the editor Jim Shooter felt that would be the only satisfactory outcome given that she had committed mass murder. Despite this, the story was retconned a few years later to facilitate Jean's return.\n\nIn 2007, the death of Captain America made real-world headlines when he met his apparent end, but Steve Rogers returned in \"\" in late 2009.\n\nComic book characters themselves have made comments about the frequency of resurrections. Professor X has commented \"in mutant heaven there are no pearly gates, but instead revolving doors.\" When Siryn was made aware of her father's death, she refused to mourn him, giddily claiming that since her father has died as an X-Man, he was likely going to be soon resurrected, shocking her friends. Her father is later restored to life but is recruited by the Apocalypse Twins as part of their new Horsemen of Apocalypse. The obituary writer of the in-universe newspaper the \"Daily Bugle\" once bemoaned to reporter Ben Urich about how many retractions he has had to write after each resurrection of a superhero or supervillain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38095877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38095877", "title": "Design International", "text": "Design International\n\nDesign International is an international architectural firm, which was founded in Toronto in 1965. The firm initially operated mainly in the North American market, but has since developed into a major international player and was one of the first architecture companies that truly worked on a global scale. Today, the company's headquarters are in London, with subsidiary offices in Milan, Shanghai, Jakarta and recently open in Dubai.\n\nDesign International works across 7 integrated divisions: Architecture, Masterplanning, Interior Design, Lighting Design, Landscape Design, Branding & Signage, and Leasing. The company is run by CEO Davide Padoa.\n\nThe firm's portfolio includes a number of award-winning developments, especially in the retail and entertainment sector, such as CocoWalk (1990), an upscale lifestyle center in the Coconut Grove neighborhood of Miami, Florida; Odysseum (2009), a retail and entertainment complex in Montpellier, France; and the iconic Morocco Mall (2011), Africa's largest destination mall located on the Casablanca beach front promenade. The mall also includes one of only four Galeries Lafayette stores outside France.\n\nMore recently, in 2014, the firm completed Nave de Vero, which is located in Venice, Italy. The concept behind Nave de Vero is based on Venice’s merchant trading history. The project has won many awards, and in November 2014, was awarded a BREEAM rating of ‘Very Good’. This achievement makes the shopping centre the first commercial project in Italy to achieve this certification.\n\nDesign International is also responsible for the Cleopatra Mall, which is due to open in 2017, in Cairo, Egypt. The shopping mall, which is currently under construction, is characterised by a gigantic canopy covering the central area of the scheme with a span of over 200 metres. The project includes over 300 shops and restaurants, and is set to include an outdoor musical fountain, gourmet markets and Egypt’s first dedicated luxury mall inside a shopping centre.\n\nIn 2015, Design International announced their involvement in the ‘Wessal Bouregreg’ project in Rabat which is part of the King of Morocco's ‘Royal Vision’ for making Morocco an international destination.\n\nThe summer of 2015 also marked the moving of Design International’s London headquarters to a new location in Bermondsey.\n\n"}
{"id": "30506791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30506791", "title": "Eastern sigillata A", "text": "Eastern sigillata A\n\nIn archeology, eastern \"sigillata\" A (ESA) is a category of late Hellenistic and early Roman \"terra sigillata\". In 1957, Kathleen Kenyon introduced categories A, B, C, to classify eastern \"sigillata\" without determining the exact place of manufacture. For ESA, still no production centers have been identified but distribution patterns suggest an origin in northern Syria. ESA is distinguished by the fineness of its fabric, which stands out as very pale in comparison to the deep red-slip that usually covers all surfaces. When fully applied, the slip is of a consistent color and thickness across the vessel. There are many examples on which the thickness of the slip varies considerably or on which firing is inconsistent and very dark in patches. A full range of plates, bowls, cups and jugs was produced. Early forms develop in the context of an eastern Mediterranean Hellenistic Koine, while later products are influenced by trends originating in Italian workshops. Many ESA forms are mold-made and exhibit distinct delineation between walls and floors as well as elegantly curved exterior and base profiles. A further technical feature is the frequent occurrence of a \"double-dipping streak\" that is the result of, first, one half of a vessel being dipped in dilute slip and then the other half being similarly treated. The consequent overlap produced a line of thicker slip that became visibly darker during firing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6980856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6980856", "title": "Electrician (theatre)", "text": "Electrician (theatre)\n\nIn theatre, an electrician is a person who works with the various aspects of lighting. Some of the positions among electricians include the lighting supervisor, master electrician, deck electrician, light board operator, moving light programmer, followspot operator, as well as simply electricians. This group is generally known as the \"Electrics\" Department or LX Department. \n\nThese people are responsible for receiving the light plot from the lighting designer and translating the design as it is on paper to the lighting that is seen by the audience in the final production. In small theatres, many of these roles may be filled by a single person, while in a large production such as those on Broadway or a large tour, there may be several people filling some of the roles.\n\nTheatre electricians are responsible for all non-design aspects of the lighting in a theatrical production. They may also be responsible for special effects (such as fog) and powering other electrical items (such as motors) used in the production.\n\nElectricians install (hang), point and shape the beam (focus), and connect to power (circuit) lighting instruments. Additionally they may add gel to color the light, patterns (or gobos) to create texture or shape a light into pictures, and accessories that give the designer the ability to change some aspect of the light, such as scrollers (color changers) or pattern effects (gobo rotators).\n\nIn the past (and even in some theatres today) the electrics department was in charge of all water and water effects used on or offstage (i.e. rain, waterfalls, pools, etc.).\n\nThe lighting supervisor is responsible for acting as the go-between for the designers, and the theatre's electrics staff. In the cases of shows done in repertory, they may have to adapt the designs of several designers to work together given the limits of the venue and the equipment, budget, and time available. In the case of a re-mount, they may adapt a design to newer equipment or a different venue than the design was originally created for. While Broadway and high end Off-Broadway productions have this position, the Master Electrician is often responsible for these duties in smaller productions.\n\nThe deck electrician, \"stage electrician\", \"floor electrician\", \"floor LX\", \"deck elec\"or just \"stage LX\" is a member of the running crew for a production and is responsible for all aspects of running the lighting for the show that happen on or backstage. This can include such things as changing color, focusing and readjusting lights that were moved, connecting and disconnecting practical units or set pieces which are electrified, and in some venues, assisting with motor control or effects. On touring or musical productions this individual is also referred to as the Dimmer Technician, as their responsibilities include supervising and maintaining portable dimmer racks.\n\nThe Load in electrician or \"production electrician\" in the UK, often referred to simply as an electrician, is a person usually hired on a per day or per project basis (freelance) to hang, circuit and focus the lights. Once the show goes into tech, the Load in Electrician will usually leave, although they may stay around to do \"notes\" with the lighting designer which may include adding or taking away lights, refocusing, or re-gelling lights. Even small productions usually have at least one or two Load in Electricians who are supervised by the Master Electrician.\n\nThe light board operator, lighting operator, noard op or just LX op is the person who executes cues for a production. This can range from adjusting light levels of individual dimmers, such as on a two scene preset board, to simply pressing a \"Go\" button on a computer controlled console. They may need to be able to write cues for their lighting board, and to make adjustments quickly to account for equipment failure, or people being in the wrong location. For some live events, such as concerts, this person may also be creating cues and looks on the fly, and functioning both as an operator and a designer simultaneously.\n\nThe master electrician, M.E. or \"chief electrician\" in the UK, supervises all other Electricians working on a production or show. They are sometimes referred to as the \"Head Electrician\" or in a touring house, the \"House Electrician\". Their other duties include:\n\n\nThe lighting programmer, is a person familiar with the lighting board being used who sits next to or in communication with the lighting designer during \"tech\". He or she is responsible for programming in the lighting cues as dictated to him or her by the lighting designer. This saves the designer the time and attention of using the light board and allows him or her to concentrate on building the cues. Often, especially in smaller theatres, this person is the Light Board Operator for the show's run.\n\nThe moving light programmer is a person who specializes in the sometimes complex creation of cues for moving lights. For large productions with several moving lights, there may even be a separate control system for the moving lights from that of the \"conventional\" lighting. Some of these lights, in addition to being able to change focus from one location to another, can include many other features such as color and patterns. The coordinating of these fixtures can be complex enough to require a dedicated person to program.\n\nThe followspot operator is the person who operates the followspot, or spotlight on a production. This is a light which is physically moved by the operator during the production to follow a performer's movement around the stage. A follow spot may also have mechanisms to change color, as well as an iris to change the diameter of the projected circle of light. The followspot operator may have to change several aspects of the beam from their unit simultaneously. This position is more common in musical theatre and concerts than for drama.\n"}
{"id": "56809882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56809882", "title": "Empty book", "text": "Empty book\n\nEmpty books or blank books are novelty books whose title indicates that they treat some serious subject, but whose pages have been left intentionally blank. A number of such titles have been published as attempts at satire or polemic, to some commercial success. \n\nThe joke is that \"nothing\" is the answer to whatever the title of the book asserts. In 2017, \"The Guardian\" commented that the trend of publishing political empty books had led to \"the noble art of political parody [descending] into a one-joke turn that avoids words\". \n\nThis list includes, in order of publication, empty books that have been published with an ISBN and have received coverage in reliable sources unrelated to the author. The books may have book design features such as front matter, a table of contents, page numbers, etc., as long as the pages are otherwise blank.\n"}
{"id": "48990498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48990498", "title": "Extra-illustration", "text": "Extra-illustration\n\nExtra-illustration is the process whereby texts, normally in their published state, are customized by the incorporation of thematically linked prints, watercolors, and other visual materials.\n\nExtra-illustration was a vibrant and widespread fashion in Britain and America during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. While there was no set canon of titles chosen for extra-illustration, certain themes and subjects occur repeatedly. From the 1770s to the 1830s, most of the books selected were patriotic in tone and antiquarian or historical in subject. Titles ranged from biography, county histories, and topography to travel, natural history, and Shakespeare. As the pastime became more popular, the genre became more diverse but the scope remained the same: places and people, chronicles of contemporary life, the lives of artistic and theatrical celebrities, and a variety of then-modern writers, notably Byron and Dickens.\n\nIn Britain, extra-illustration is frequently called \"Grangerising\" or \"Grangerisation,\" after James Granger whose seminal book \"Biographical History of England from Egbert the Great to the Revolution\"—published in 1769 without illustrations—quickly prompted a fashion for portrait-print collecting and the incorporation prints and drawings into the printed text. However, the term \"Grangerising\" only came into use from the 1880s, more than a century after Granger's death. And ironically for the process of book customization that carries his name, Granger never \"grangerized\" a book.\nThere are many examples of extra-illustration, especially Granger's \"Biographical History\". One of the first and certainly the most influential example was made by Richard Bull (MP) who corresponded regularly with James Granger about his print collection and its organisation according to Granger's typologies. The Bull-Granger, as Richard Bull's extra-illustrated copy is often called, is now in the collection of the Huntington Library in California. A large collection of extra-illustrated books was formed during the same period by Anthony Morris Storer who bequeathed them to Eton College in 1799. In the British Museum, a particularly impressive and early example is the copy of \"Some Account of London\" by Thomas Pennant, extra-illustrated by John Charles Crowle. Crowle filled fourteen folio volumes, bound in gold-tooled red leather, with a collection of over 3347 prints and drawings of London topography and of portrayals of historical events and people connected with the history of London. It was bequeathed to the British Museum in 1811 where it is registered under number G,1.1. Perhaps the largest project in the genre are the extra-illustrated books and related materials produced by Alexander Hendras Sutherland and his wife Charlotte, née Hussey, between c.1795 and 1839. The Sutherland collection is now shared between the Ashmolean Museum and the Bodleian Library.\n"}
{"id": "2611382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611382", "title": "Feet of Flames", "text": "Feet of Flames\n\nFeet of Flames is an Irish dance show directed by Michael Flatley and scored by Ronan Hardiman. Flatley was known for the shows \"Riverdance\" and \"Lord of the Dance\".\n\nThe Hyde Park show was first created as a one-off performance of Flatley's previous show, \"Lord of the Dance\". It premiered on 25 July 1998, playing to approximately 25,000 people at the Route of Kings, an open-space arena-like spot in London's Hyde Park. Although closely resembling its predecessor, this show merged troupes, added new numbers, and featured a multi-level stage for the finale as well as a live band. Amongst the new numbers is Flatley's solo – \"Feet of Flames\", which the show is based around. The show introduced some of the key elements that are now featured when Flatley performs. His silver-heeled shoes made by Freed's of London were used for the first time in this show. TV screens on both sides of the stage were installed and are now used in all the shows that feature Flatley. Film of the Hyde Park show was later distributed on VHS and DVD.\n\nOn 21 September 1999 Michael Flatley announced a \"Feet of Flames\" world tour for 2000. This tour began on Wednesday, 1 March 2000, in Germany. The show differed significantly from the original 1998 version. The show had new numbers, new leads, a new story line and a \"whole new outlook\" in the words of Flatley. Both the original female leads Bernadette Flynn and Gillian Norris were replaced by Sarah Clark and Leigh Ann McKenna. Daire Nolan was replaced by Stephen Brunning. Both Daire Nolan and Gillian Norris went on to pursue their own careers after the 1998 show. Bernadette Flynn left to dance with Lord of the Dance troupe one until 2001. Some of the characters changed slightly in the show. Lord of the Dance became Firespirit, Saroise became The Swan and Morrighan the Temptress became Cleopatra. The Dark Lord was remained but there are sayings that they still used Don Dorcha as the name. Helen Egan's part as the little spirit became the Court Jester in the World Tour. The Highlight of the 2000 tour was Flatley and the Troupe performing in Budapest to over 100,000 people. The European part of the 2000 World Tour concluded on 29 July 2000 in Stormont Castle, Belfast, Northern Ireland.\n\nThe 2001 tour, dubbed the \"USA Victory Tour\", had a preview show on 6 June 2001 in the Bi-Lo Center, Greenville, South Carolina. The tour officially began on 8 June 2001 in the AmericanAirlines Arena, Miami, Florida. The highlight of the tour was Michael Flatley performing for the first time in Madison Square Garden in New York City on 29 June 2001. The tour ended on 29 July 2001 in Dallas, Texas in the American Airlines Center, the second event to be held at the venue. The last time the show was performed was 29 July 2001. Michael Flatley was said to have retired that night but later in 2005 would come out with a new show, Celtic Tiger.\n\n\"Feet of Flames\" returned to the world stage for a brief period with lead dancers Damien O' Kane and Bernadette Flynn taking the lead. This would mark the first time in the show's history that Michael Flatley would not be starring or dancing in it. This show featured dances/costumes from 1998 Hyde Park show. Later in 2009 Flatley returned in the lead role.\n\nIn 2009, Michael Flatley reprised his role in the 2009 tour held in the Taipei Arena in Taipei, Taiwan. It was filmed for DVD and later released as noted in his website. It was also released on Amazon.com and Amazon.co.uk by Playback HD in 2010. The 2009 return of Michael Flatley would later mark his return to his show, Lord of the Dance in 2010. \n\nThe \"Feet of Flames\" show from Hyde Park in 1998 was released on VHS and DVD. A CD of the new music from the Hyde park show was released with the DVD. The Budapest show in 2000 was recorded for DVD release but this did not happen; however, clips of the show were put on Michael Flatley's autobiography/concert DVD \"Michael Flatley Gold\". Included on the DVD are the numbers:\n\n\nThe Madison Square Garden show on 29 June 2001 in New York City and the American Airlines Center show on 29 July 2001 in Dallas, Texas, were recorded. The American leg of the tour was filmed for an IMAX planned for release in 2002. In addition parts of the footage were going to be used in a film featuring Michael Flatley. The working title for the film was supposedly \"Dream Dancer\", a fictional love story. Clips of the rehearsal process for the movie can be found on \"Michael Flatley Gold\". The film was, however, never completed. The original film from the shows in allegedly tied up in ownership dispute between the filming company and Michael Flatley's company Unicorn Entertainment.\n\nThe 2009 Taiwan tour was filmed for an actual DVD release and later released on Amazon.com and Amazon.co.uk in 2010\n\nThe chanting of the monks from the \"Court of High Kings\" (Victory Tour) is sampled on the first track of Michael Flatley's flute album \"On A Different Note\", which was released on March 2011.\n\n\n\nAct I\n\nAct II\n\n\nAct I\n\nAct II\n\n"}
{"id": "36851428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36851428", "title": "Hackney Flashers", "text": "Hackney Flashers\n\nThe Hackney Flashers were a collective of broadly socialist-feminist women who produced notable agitprop exhibitions in the 1970s and early 1980s. Working in the United Kingdom during second wave feminism (1960s–1980s), the Hackney Flashers are an example of collectives prevalent in the latter half of the 20th century that worked to raise consciousness of social or political issues relevant to the times. This group's original aim was to make visible the invisible and document women's work in the home and outside of it, helping to make the case for childcare and show the complex social and economic issues of women and childcare.\n\nThe group's origins go back to 1974 when photographers Jo Spence and Neil Martinson were searching for women photographers to produce an exhibition on Women and Work for Hackney Trades Council. A woman designer and an illustrator, a writer and an editor also joined the group. Members were engaged in a variety of occupations at a professional level: university teaching, community photography, freelance photojournalism and publishing; some were active trade unionists. In 1975 the collective was consolidated when it adopted the name Hackney Flashers.\n\nFrom the start the Flashers’ output was distributed as the work of a collective. It was a political decision that individual names were never listed, specific images or writing never credited. This may have led to later confusion about who was in the Hackney Flashers and who worked on the different projects.\n\nMembers were: An Dekker, Sally Greenhill, Gerda Jager, Liz Heron, Michael Ann Mullen, Maggie Murray, Christine Roche, Jo Spence and Julia Vellacott. In her history of \"Women Photographers in Britain\" Val Williams recounts that \"the group's nine women members began to study the use of photography within the capitalist system and to present alternatives. They played a decisive part in establishing a context within which women workers from different cultural fields could work together in pursuit of a collective political aim\".\nOthers associated with the group were: Helen Grace, Maggie Millman, Jini Rawlings, Ruth Barrenbaum, Nanette Salomon, Arlene Strasberg, Chris Treweek. Neil Martinson was a founding member of the group and was the main point of contact between the group and Hackney Trades Council. He left the group in November 1975. Terry Dennett did not join the group, but came to one or two meetings as an observer.\n\nThe group’s purpose and politics grew and developed over time – not without internal conflict and dissent. Members came from differing class backgrounds and political stances. Some were of the left, others emerging feminists. The group's feminist practice was reflected in their tactics of working as a small group outside of institutions like academia. They worked on bringing personal and domestic issues into the public sphere. They would meet in each other's homes. The dynamic of the group is documented in Liz Heron’s article, \"Who’s still holding the camera?\" in \"Photography Politics:One\". One of the aims of the group was to uncover what was hidden (hence ‘Flashers’). This was true of the many images of women at work (rarely recorded at the time) in the first exhibition and the complications of juggling childcare and work in the second. The works were conceived as campaigning and educational.\n\nThe second exhibition also engaged with issues of representation, of subverting imagery and the difficulty of visually showing a lack. Val Williams notes that \"The eclectic use of graphics, of cartooning and of advertisements began a process which took photography out of its traditional limits and re-established it as a medium of cohesive political propaganda.\" Both exhibitions were intended for use in community centres, schools, trades union gatherings and every sort of alternative venue. The panels appeared in town halls, health centres, at conferences, in libraries and at the Hayward Gallery when it was selected by curator John Tagg to be included in the 'Three Perspectives of Photography' in 1979.\nThe collective also functioned as a co-operative, skill-sharing experience for women working in the media, who at that time had a very low profile and were often isolated.\n\nThe Hackney Flashers Collective produced three main pieces of work, although there were other experimental pieces, including montages, which were made in the group’s occasional creative workshops\n\n\n\nThe collective split up in the early 80s citing political differences and the wish to work on other projects. Members of the Collective continued to develop their own careers or engage in new fields. Sally Greenhill worked as a photojournalist, Liz Heron worked as a journalist and literary translator and is the author of fiction and non-fiction books; Michael Ann Mullen became Photography Officer at the GLC and later lectured in history of photography at Middlesex University; Maggie Murray (with Val Wilmer) set up Format Photographers – a women's photo agency; Christine Roche continued as a cartoonist/illustrator and taught at the London College of Printing; Jo Spence produced books and exhibitions on health and representation. She died in 1992. Julia Vellacott was an editor at Penguin Books. \nInformal contact and collaboration between many of the Flashers went on for many years and continues.\n\nThe work of the Hackney Flashers has been noted in histories of photography and of the art practices of collage and montage.\n\nBeyond the initial showing of the work, the projects by the Hackney Flashers have been included in several major exhibitions in recent years. These have included but are not limited to:\n\n2000: \"Protest and Survive\" at the Whitechapel Gallery, curated by artists Matthew Higgs and Paul Noble \n\n2005–2006: \"Jo Spence: Beyond the Perfect Image, Photography, Subjectivity, Antagonism\" at Museu d’Art Contemporani de Barcelona 27 October 2005 – 15 January 2006, Curators Jorge Ribalta and Terry Dennett.\n\n2012: \"Who's Still Holding the Baby? Hackney Flashers 1978\" Exhibition at The Women's Art Library, Goldsmiths University of London, 1–30 June 2012, curated by Dr Hazel Frizell.\n\n2012: \"Jo Spence: Work I\", SPACE, London, 1 June – 15 July 2012.\n\n2012–2013: \"Transmitter Receiver: The Persistence of Collage\", An Arts Council Touring Exhibition, Middlesbrough, Woking, Walsall, Lincoln, Aberystwyth, Carlisle,\n\nIn 2014, former members of the group launched a Hackney Flashers website and organized a 40th anniversary event.\n\n"}
{"id": "3932687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3932687", "title": "Herald", "text": "Herald\n\nA herald, or a herald of arms, is an officer of arms, ranking between pursuivant and king of arms. The title is commonly applied more broadly to all officers of arms.\n\nHeralds were originally messengers sent by monarchs or noblemen to convey messages or proclamations—in this sense being the predecessors of modern diplomats. In the Hundred Years' War, French heralds challenged King Henry V to fight. During the Battle of Agincourt, the English herald and the French herald, Montjoie, watched the battle together from a nearby hill; both agreed that the English were the victors, and Montjoie provided King Henry V, who thus earned the right to name the battle, with the name of the nearby castle.\n\nLike other officers of arms, a herald would often wear a surcoat, called a tabard, decorated with the coat of arms of his master. It was possibly due to their role in managing the tournaments of the Late Middle Ages that heralds came to be associated with the regulation of the knights' coats of arms. Heralds have been employed by kings and large landowners, principally as messengers and ambassadors. Heralds were required to organise, announce and referee the contestants at a tournament. This science of heraldry became increasingly important and further regulated over the years, and in several countries around the world it is still overseen by heralds. In the United Kingdom heralds are still called upon at times to read proclamations publicly; for which they still wear tabards emblazoned with the royal coat of arms. \n\nThere are active official heralds today in several countries, including the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Canada, and the Republic of South Africa. In England and Scotland most heralds are full-time employees of the sovereign and are called \"Heralds of Arms in Ordinary\". Temporary appointments can be made of \"Heralds of Arms Extraordinary\". These are often appointed for a specific major state occasions, such as a coronation. The Canadian Heraldic Authority has created the position of \"Herald of Arms Emeritus\" with which to honor long-serving or distinguished heraldists. In Scotland, some Scottish clan chiefs, the heads of great noble houses, still appoint private officers of arms to handle cases of heraldic or genealogical importance of clan members, although these are usually pursuivants.\n\nIn addition, many orders of chivalry have heralds attached to them. These heralds may have some heraldic duties but are more often merely ceremonial in nature. Heralds which were primarily ceremonial in nature, especially after the decline of chivalry, were also appointed in various nations for specific events such as a coronation as additions to the pageantry of these occasions. In the Netherlands, heralds are appointed for the Dutch monarch's inauguration where they wore their tabards until 1948; these heralds proclaim the inauguration ceremony to have been completed to those inside and outside the Nieuwe Kerk.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13506479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13506479", "title": "Into the Widening World", "text": "Into the Widening World\n\nInto the Widening World is a collection of 26 short fictional coming-of-age stories. It was written by many authors including: Nadine Gordimer, Ben Okri, Bharati Mukherjee, Alice Munro and Gabriel Garcia Marquez.\n\n\"Columba\"- Michelle Cliff\n\n\"Weight-Reducing Diet\"- Jorge Edwards\n\n\"On Sunday\"- Mario Vargas\n\n\"Artificial Roses\"- Gabriel Garcia Marquez\n\n\"The Raffle\"- V. S. Naipaul\n\n\"Exchange Value\"- Charles Johnson\n\n\"Borders\"- Thomas King\n\n\"Saints\"- Bharati Mukherjee\n\n\"The Turkey Season\"- Alice Munro\n\n\"The Gifts of War\"- Margaret Drabble\n\n\"The Nothingness Forest\"- Margareta Ekstrom\n\n\"Christmas\"- John McGahern\n\n\"That Wall, That Mimosa\"- Merce Rodoreda\n\n\"Date with a bird\"- Tatyana Tolstaaya\n\n\"Turkish Soldier from Edirne\"- Missiim Aloni\n\n\"Some Are Born to Sweet Delight\"- Nadine Gordimer\n\n\"The Conjurer Made Off with the Dish\"- Naguib Mahfouz\n\n\"Who Will Stop the Dark?\"- Charles Mungoshi\n\n\"In the Shadow of War\"- Ben Okri\n\n\"When the Train Comes\"- Zoe Wicomb\n\n\"American Dreams\"- Peter Carey mm\n\n\"In Broad Daylight\"- Ha Jin\n\n\"Mr. Tang's Girls\"- Shirley Geok-lin Lim\n\n\"Martyrdom\"- Yukio Mishima\n\n\"One Sunday\"- Rohinton Mistry\n\nBabaru, the Family- B. Wongar\n\nEdited by: John Loughery\nCopyright: 1995 by John Loughery\nPublished by: Persea Books, Ink. 171 Madison Avenue. New York, New York 10016\n\nAll rights reserved\n"}
{"id": "17860694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17860694", "title": "Jessica Chaffin", "text": "Jessica Chaffin\n\nJessica Chaffin is an American actress, comedian, and writer best known as part of the comedy duo Ronna and Beverly with Jamie Denbo. She is also known for her recurring role as Coco Wexler on Nickelodeon's \"Zoey 101\" and appearing in the films \"Spy\" and \"The Heat\". Chaffin starred as Marie Faldonado in the CBS sitcom \"Man With A Plan\", opposite Matt LeBlanc.\n\nChaffin was born and raised in Newton, Massachusetts. Her father is from a Jewish family, and her mother, who is of Scottish and English ancestry, converted to Judaism; Chaffin was raised Jewish. Her brother, Joshua Chaffin, is a writer for the \"Financial Times\".\n\nShe is a regular performer at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in Los Angeles, often performing with her comedy partner Jamie Denbo. She has done many guest voice appearances on Nickelodeon animated programs. From 2008 to 2009, she worked with Amy Poehler as a writer and voice actor on the animated series \"The Mighty B!\" playing several roles, including that of Portia's cousin, Chelsea. Chaffin is also known for playing Coco Wexler, the girls' dorm adviser on all four seasons of Nickelodeon's \"Zoey 101\".\n\nChaffin has made guest appearances on television programs such as \"Weeds\", \"Entourage\", and \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\". In December 2009, her comedy pilot \"Ronna & Beverly\" (based on the popular stage show she performs with Denbo at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre) aired on Showtime. \"Ronna & Beverly\" was eventually turned into a six-part comedy talk show, which was co-produced by Paul Feig and premiered on September 10, 2012 on Sky Atlantic HD in the United Kingdom. Together with Denbo, Chaffin created the \"Ronna and Beverly\" podcast.\n\nChaffin is formerly a series regular on the CBS sitcom \"Man With A Plan\".\n"}
{"id": "26591140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26591140", "title": "Licence to use", "text": "Licence to use\n\nA licence to use or LTU is a licence to use an intellectual property such as a patent or trademark. This is distinct from other types of licence such as a licence to manufacture or copy the invention or design. It is the sort of licence commonly issued for the use of computer software.\n"}
{"id": "403631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=403631", "title": "Lisa Gerrard", "text": "Lisa Gerrard\n\nLisa Gerrard (; born 1961) is an Australian musician, singer and composer who rose to prominence as part of the music group Dead Can Dance with music partner Brendan Perry. In addition to singing, she is an instrumentalist for much of her work, most prolifically using the \"yangqin\" (a Chinese hammered dulcimer).\n\nSince her career began in 1981, Gerrard has been involved in a wide range of projects. She received a Golden Globe Award for the music score to the film \"Gladiator\", on which she collaborated with Hans Zimmer.\n\nLisa Gerrard was born in Melbourne, and grew up in the suburb of Prahran with her Irish immigrant parents. She has said that she grew up with \"Mediterranean music blaring out of the houses\" and that this influenced her music, particularly on later Dead Can Dance albums and in her solo and collaborative works.\n\nGerrard's first foray into forming bands and creative music-making was in Melbourne's little band scene, an experimental post-punk scene which flourished from 1978 until 1981. It was at one of these little band events that she first met Dead Can Dance co-founder Brendan Perry. Perry recalls, \"It never occurred to me that we would one day collaborate musically together because at the time I thought her music was too avant garde. I particularly remember one song that she sang about finding a man in the park and asking her mother if she could bring him home to keep in her wardrobe as she attacked this chinese dulcimer with two bamboo sticks\".\n\nDead Can Dance originally formed as a quartet in 1981 in Melbourne, but in 1982 moved to London with members Gerrard, Brendan Perry and bass player Paul Erikson. Shortly after coming to England, Erikson flew back to Australia, leaving the band as a duo. Dead Can Dance recorded eight albums on the 4AD Records recording label beginning with the self-titled \"Dead Can Dance\" LP in 1984. In 2005, the song \"Nierika\" became part of the opening titles for Mexican television station TV Azteca's soap opera \"La Chacala\". The band split in 1998, but reunited in 2005 for a world tour. In 2012, the band announced a new world tour to coincide with the release of their new album, \"Anastasis\".\n\nIn 1995, Gerrard recorded and released her first solo album, \"The Mirror Pool\". After the release of this album, she continued to work with Dead Can Dance, releasing the album, \"Spiritchaser\", in 1996. Following this, in 1998 she recorded \"Duality\" in collaboration with Pieter Bourke. This album would mark the beginning of an extensive collaboration for a number of film scores, including \"The Insider\" and \"Ali\". Gerrard began a new collaboration with Patrick Cassidy in 2004 with the release of \"Immortal Memory\". Again, this collaboration was furthered in film work, including \"Salem's Lot\".\n\nThe following year in 2005, Gerrard contributed to the \"Ashes and Snow Soundtrack\". For the songs \"Womb\" and \"Wisdom\", she and Patrick Cassidy wrote and performed together. Her collaboration with Cassidy extended to include work with conductor Julie Rogers on the songs \"Devota\" and \"Vespers\".\n\nIn 2006, \"Sanctuary\", a documentary about the life and work of Gerrard, was recorded and released in September. It is the work of producer and director Clive Collier and features extensive interviews with Gerrard and various people who have collaborated with her in the past, including Michael Mann, Russell Crowe, Hans Zimmer and Niki Caro. The documentary was released on DVD by Milan Entertainment on 24 April 2007.\n\nAlso in 2006, Gerrard released her second solo album, \"The Silver Tree\". This album was markedly different from her previous work and was also her first album released outside 4AD Records. The album was first released on iTunes, with a wider physical release planned at a future date. The album was nominated for the Australian Music Prize for 2006. In 2007 a retrospective album \"The Best of Lisa Gerrard\", a compilation of fifteen songs, was released covering her career in Dead Can Dance, solo work, and film work.\n\nA world tour was undertaken in 2007 beginning in April in Melbourne, Australia. This tour marked the first time Lisa Gerrard had toured in Australia, with a performance in three cities. The tour was followed by performances in Europe and North America. More performances took place in Europe and Russia from 30 October to 22 November 2007. In November 2007, Gerrard collaborated with German electronic musician Klaus Schulze on the double-album \"Farscape\". The album was released 27 July 2008 and was followed by a European tour.\n\nIn 2009, Gerrard completed work on the documentary by Australian adventurer Tim Cope called \"On the Trail of Genghis Khan\" and contributed her voice to the soundtrack, which began airing in 2010, of the Japanese NHK taiga drama \"Ryōmaden\", a story based on the life of Sakamoto Ryōma. Also in 2009, Gerrard created her own record label, Gerrard Records, which, aside from being a conduit for the release of Gerrard's future works, will also act to promote and support unrecognised artists of all genres. In September 2009, Gerrard and Klaus Schulze performed another tour in six European cities – Warsaw, Berlin, Amsterdam, Essen, Paris, and Brussels. This tour coincided with the release of \"Come Quietly\", a joint project between Gerrard and Schulze that was released during the tour.\n\nGerrard released her third solo album, \"The Black Opal\", in October 2009. The album included collaboration with Michael Edwards, Patrick Cassidy, Pieter Bourke and James Orr and was the first release to come from Gerrard Records.\n\nIn 2010, Gerrard released a new album with fellow composer Marcello De Francisci titled \"Departum\" from Gerrard Records which was followed by the release of three new singles; \"Coming Home\" – as featured in \"\", \"Entry\" and \"Come This Way\".\n\nGerrard also collaborated with Prash Mistry from \"Engine Earz Experiment\" on a track titled \"Spirit Guide\" which will appear on his upcoming album in 2011.\n\nOn 1 December 2010, Gerrard capped off a busy 2010 with the release of a new soundtrack album with Cye Wood titled \"The Trail of Genghis Khan\" which contains music from the Gerrard and Wood score to the documentary TV series by Australian adventurer Tim Cope.\n\nIn July 2014, Gerrard released a new solo album entitled \"Twilight Kingdom\" through her own record label, Gerrard Records.\n\nIn 2014, Gerrard collaborated with British composer, songwriter and producer, Chicane. Her vocals feature in the album \"The Sum of Its Parts\" featuring in songs \"38 Weeks\" and \"Orleans\". The album was released in 25 January 2015 by Modena Records.\n\nGerrard's vocals are heavily featured in the video game \"Armello\" launched on 1 September 2015, titled 'Wyld's Call', produced by Michael Allen. Her vocals feature towards a Celtic theme of the soundtracks.\n\nGerrard's first experience in composing music for a film came with the 1989 Spanish film \"El Niño de la Luna\", directed by Agustí Villaronga. The film score was composed by Dead Can Dance and the film featured Lisa Gerrard in her first acting role. \"El Niño de la Luna\" describes the story of David, a young orphan with special powers, escaping an institution with the help of a fellow institute inmate, Georgina, played by Lisa Gerrard.\n\nGerrard participated in a number of musical scores but came to fame as a film composer after recording \"The Insider\" in 1999, with Pieter Bourke, and \"Gladiator\" in 2000, with Hans Zimmer, which received an Academy Award nomination for best music score, although only Zimmer was nominated. It did, however, win a Golden Globe Award for both composers. Gerrard's score for the New Zealand independent film \"Whale Rider\" consisted entirely of solo material; a soundtrack album was released by 4AD.\n\nIn 2005 Gerrard collaborated with Ennio Morricone for \"Fateless\" followed by a collaboration with Jeff Rona on the score for the feature film \"A Thousand Roads\" and the song \"On an Ocean\" for the \"Henry Poole Is Here\" score. Gerrard along with Dead Can Dance also provided several contributions to the soundtrack of \"Baraka\", a visual journey showcasing mankind's impact on our planet. Gerrard was also invited by Denez Prigent to collaborate with him on his piece \"Gortoz a ran – J'attends\" (meaning \"I await\"), a piece that was later used in the soundtrack of Ridley Scott's film \"Black Hawk Down\".\nIn 2009 Gerrard wrote the score for \"Balibo\", for which she won a Best Feature Film Score award at the 2009 APRA Screen Music Awards and an Aria Award for Best Original Soundtrack/Cast/Show Album at the 2009 Aria Awards. Gerrard finished 2009 by contributing her voice to the theme song for the Japanese NHK taiga drama \"Ryōmaden\", which began airing in 2010.\n\nIn 2010 Gerrard completed the score for \"Tears of Gaza\" with Marcello De Francisci which was well received despite its controversial theme. Gerrard also scored the Jim Loach-directed \"Oranges and Sunshine\", starring Emily Watson and Hugo Weaving, released in April 2011, which gained her another nomination at the 2011 IF Awards for Best Music Score.\n\nIn November 2010 Gerrard provided vocals and additional music for the post-apocalyptic sci-fi thriller \"Priest\", scored by Christopher Young, which was released in 2011.\n\nIn November 2011 Gerrard completed the score for \"Burning Man\", which won her Best Music Score at the 2011 Film Critics Circle of Australia awards, beating scores for \"Snowtown\", \"The Hunter\" and \"Red Dog\".\n\nGerrard possesses the vocal range of a contralto but can also reach upward into the mezzo-soprano range. Her voice has been described as rich, deep, dark, mournful and unique.\n\nExamples of Gerrard's mezzo-soprano range include the songs \"The Host of Seraphim\", \"Elegy\", \"Space Weaver\", \"Come This Way\" and \"One Perfect Sunrise\". Gerrard however performs more predominantly in the dramatic contralto range in her other songs, \"Sanvean\", \"Sacrifice\", \"Largo\", \"Lament\" and \"Not Yet\".\n\nGerrard sings many of her songs, such as \"Now We Are Free\", \"Come Tenderness\", \"Serenity\", \"The Valley of the Moon\", \"Tempest\", \"Pilgrimage of Lost Children\", \"Coming Home\" and \"Sanvean\" in idioglossia. With respect to such work she has said, \"I sing in the language of the Heart. It's an invented language that I've had for a very long time. I believe I started singing in it when I was about 12. Roughly that time. And I believed that I was speaking to God when I sang in that language.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "205581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205581", "title": "List of building types", "text": "List of building types\n\nA list of structural structure types and forms of architecture.\n\nFor individual buildings, see List of buildings and structures. For other types of structures see nonbuilding structure.\n\n\n\nShops-\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4608499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4608499", "title": "Lubna Agha", "text": "Lubna Agha\n\nLubna Agha (May 2, 1949 - May 6, 2012) was an American artist. She was of Pakistani descent and lived in Brookline, Massachusetts.\n\nHer art invokes a dialogue between the modern-abstract and traditional forms and practices of Islamic paintings. Her work taps on visual images once a part of daily life but now a part of history—from places as geographically disparate as South Asia and North Africa. She painted mainly on canvas and wood, applying an infinite number of painted pixels and organic shapes that evoke mosaic tiling, intricate carvings, and ornate metalwork.\n\nHer work has been exhibited in art museums and galleries in Pakistan and the United States, as well as Britain, Japan, Jordan, and Switzerland.\n\nHer paintings are part of the permanent collections at the Asian Collection at Bradford Museum, UK, National Council of the Arts, Pakistan, and the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts, Jordan.\n\nThe Karachi School of Arts dedicated an Art Gallery to her name. The Lubna Agha Art Gallery was inaugurated with a showing of her work and a memorial lecture in March, 2016. \n\nA book about the artist by Marcella Nessom Sirhandi entitled \"Lubna Agha: Points of Reference\" was published by The Foundation of Museum of Modern Art, Pakistan in 2007.\n\nAgha died of complications from gallbladder cancer at her home in Brookline, MA on May 6, 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45623228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45623228", "title": "Marghab Linens", "text": "Marghab Linens\n\nMarghab Linens Ltd. was a company specialising in table linens founded on Madeira in 1933 by British Cypriot Emile Marghab and his South Dakotan wife Vera (\"née\" Way); and disestablished in 1980. The company was also known as Emile Marghab Inc.\n\nSince 1850, when Madeiran natives were introduced to hand embroidery as a means of industry, the islands had been renowned for their needlework. The Marghabs took advantage of this reputation, producing textiles that were skilfully hand-embroidered on the highest quality Irish linen and a form of organdy called Margandie, made in Switzerland, and harder wearing than usual organdy. The linens were designed by Vera, and hand-embroidered as a home industry by the women on Madeira, who Vera insisted received payment per stitch - which for a single place mat could amount to seventy thousand stitches.\n\nMarghab linens were retailed through leading American department stores such as Lord & Taylor, Marshall Field's, and Neiman Marcus. In 1945 Vera Marghab was awarded the Neiman Marcus Fashion Award. Emile died in 1947, and his wife took charge of the business until its dissestablishment in 1980. She died in 1995.\n\nWhile linens have continued to be produced by Madeira since Marghab closed in 1980, as of 2015 the quality and workmanship in Marghab's output remains highly regarded.\n\nIn 1970, the South Dakota Art Museum were gifted nearly eight hundred examples of Marghab linens, followed by many gifts from Vera and her trustees. The Marghab Gallery was dedicated in 1970. As of 2015, the Museum's holdings are described as the world's most complete collection of Marghab linens, with over three hundred patterns and almost 2800 objects. The Museum holds at least one example of almost every design produced, but deaccessioned and sold off all the duplicates at auction in 2005 in order to raise money for building work. At the time of the auction, it was noted that Marghab linens had previously sold for hundreds of dollars over their reserve prices, and that it was extremely difficult to find matched sets.\n"}
{"id": "32803322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32803322", "title": "Mono-ha", "text": "Mono-ha\n\nMono-ha (もの派) is the name given to a group of 20th-century Japanese artists. The Mono-ha artists explored the encounter between natural and industrial materials, such as stone, steel plates, glass, light bulbs, cotton, sponge, paper, wood, wire, rope, leather, oil, and water, arranging them in mostly unaltered, ephemeral states. The works focus as much on the interdependency of these various elements and the surrounding space as on the materials themselves.\n\n“Mono-ha” is usually translated in a literal manner, as “School of Things.” The Mono-ha artists regularly assert that “Mono-ha” was a term disparagingly coined by critics (specifically Teruo Fujieda and Toshiaki Minemura in \"Bijutsu Techo\" magazine in 1973) well after they had begun to exhibit their work, and they did not begin as an organized collective. Many of the Mono-ha artists were first exhibited at Tamura and Maki Galleries in Tokyo owned by Nobuo(Shinro) Yamagiishi who was also an art writer and whose archives are in the collection of The National Art Center Tokyo.\n\nToshiaki Minemura explains in his 1986 essay “What Was Mono-ha?,” that in terms of their academic background and intellectual exchange, the Mono-ha artists are divided into three groups:\n\n\nMono-ha emerged in response to a number of social, cultural and political precedents set in the 1960s. With the exception of Lee Ufan, who was a decade older, most of the Mono-ha artists were just beginning their careers when the violent student protests of 1968–69 occurred.\n\nAt the same time, there was much protest against the second extension of the US-Japan Security Treaty (known in abbreviated Japanese as \"Anpo\") in 1970, binding Japan into providing logistical support for the US war in Vietnam. Coupled with demands for the reversion of Okinawa by 1972 and the removal of nuclear weapons based there, the climate of protest during this period was symptomatic of a growing distrust of the United States’ intentions towards Asia and its dominant position in the bilateral relationship with Japan. The activism of the “\"Anpo\" generation” gave rise to a highly intellectual counterculture that was both critical of US “imperialism” and acutely self-aware of its Japanese identity.\n\nThe Mono-ha artists typically deny involvement with student activist movements at the time, though it is thought that the tense political climate influenced their work, allowing them to grapple with and make sense of their unease and disillusionment with postwar modernity in their different ways.\n\nIn 2012, Blum & Poe gallery introduced the Mono-ha art into the US with the survey exhibition “Requiem for the Sun: The Art of Mono-ha,” curated by Mika Yoshitake. The gallery has also held solo exhibitions of Lee Ufan, Kishio Suga, Susumu Koshimizu, Koji Enokura, and Nobuo Sekine.\n\nNobuo Sekine's Phase-Mother Earth is considered to be the initial work of the Mono-ha movement. Originally created in Suma Rikyu Park in Kobe, and without official permission. The work was re-created in 2008 and 2012. It was a large cylindrical tower made of packed earth, which was removed from a cylindrical hole with the same shape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27728267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27728267", "title": "MozartNu (1986–2008)", "text": "MozartNu (1986–2008)\n\nMozartNu (1986–2008) is a contemporary dance performance conceived by the Spanish director, Iago Pericot. It is derived from Pericot's \"MozartNu\", which premiered in 1986. The original 1986 version of \"MozartNu\", inspired by the Coronation Mass of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, showed the beauty of human relationships through the naked bodies of two dancers.\n\nIn \"MozartNu (1986–2008)\", the original version is performed by one couple on one platform, while another couple dances simultaneously on a separate platform on the same stage. These parallel performances reflect the changes that have been the result of these human relationships over time.\n\nThe premiere production of \"MozartNu (1986–2008)\" was April 15–20, 2008 at \"El Mercat de les Flors\" in Barcelona, Spain. The older dancers were the dancers who performed in the original \"MozartNu\" of 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "36065458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36065458", "title": "Persio Flacco Theater", "text": "Persio Flacco Theater\n\nThe Persio Flacco is an active opera and theater stage in Volterra, Italy.\n\nVolterra still lacked a proper indoor performance stage in the early nineteenth century. In 1816 a group of citizens, including cavaliere Bartolommeo Falchi, cavaliere Mario Maffei, Luigi Ducci, Francesco Cinci, and Luigi Campani, commissioned the architect Luigi Campani (an architect of the Grand Duke Ferdinand III of Tuscany). The theater was erected on the site of the palazzo belonging to Marchesi Incontri. Work began in 1816 and the theater was inaugurated in 1820.\n\nThe main curtain (\"sipario\") was painted by Nicola Contestabili, who represented Aulus Persius Flaccus, a Roman satirist and playwright born in Volerra, being led by the muses to the summit of Parnassus, ruled by Apollo. This gave the theater its final name. The ceiling over the seats was painted with \"Venus in a chariot drawn by swans\", and the parapets, with cupids, garlands and vignettes, harmonizing with the curtain. All these beautiful decorations were lost with subsequent restorations.\n\nIn 1820, a group of 60 prominent citizens formed the \"Academy of the Riuniti\" (of the reunited), and purchased the entire theater, assigning to each member property of the individual boxes and seats, and this organization has continuously maintained that theatrical activity.\n\nThe theater was closed for physical repairs for 15 years, from 1984 to 1999, before the reopening, members donated their ownerships of seats and boxes to the Academy. This availed them of funds to pursue reconstruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "49406109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49406109", "title": "Photography Biennale of the contemporary Arab world", "text": "Photography Biennale of the contemporary Arab world\n\nThe Photography Biennale of the contemporary Arab world is a cultural event, established by the Arab World Institute and the Maison européenne de la photographie (European Photography Institute) whose aim is to develop a unique panorama of the contemporary photographers operating in – and on – the Arab world since the early 2000s.\n\nCurated by Gabriel Bauret, the first edition took place from 11 November 2016 to 17 January 2017 and aimed at showcasing a range of diverse images and points of view, between the Arab world and Europe.\n\nThe event took place in the 4th arrondissement of Paris, between the Arab World Institute and the Maison européenne de la photographie and six others places, such as the Cité Internationale des Arts of Paris, the Mairie du 4ème arrondissement, Photo12 Galerie, Galerie Basia Embiricos, Galerie Boa and Graine de Photographe.\n\nThe next edition will be held in November 2017.\n\nFor this first edition, the Biennale presented works signed by about 50 artists.\n"}
{"id": "8262438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8262438", "title": "Portrait of Juan de Pareja", "text": "Portrait of Juan de Pareja\n\nThe Portrait of Juan de Pareja is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velázquez of his assistant Juan de Pareja, a notable painter in his own right, who was enslaved and owned by Velázquez at the time the painting was completed. Velázquez painted the portrait in Rome, while traveling in Italy, in 1650. It is the earliest known portrait of a Spanish man of African descent.\n\nIt was the first painting to sell for more than £1,000,000. At the time of the painting's purchase by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1970 they considered it \"among the most important acquisitions in the Museum's history\". The painting is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.\n\nIn 1649, as court painter to Philip IV of Spain, Diego Velázquez was sent to Rome to purchase works of art for the Alcázar in Madrid. Velázquez brought with him Juan de Pareja, a enslaved man, who served as an assistant in the artist's workshop. During his stay in Rome, Velázquez executed an oil painting of Juan de Pareja, which was displayed as part of a larger exhibition of paintings at the Pantheon on 19 March 1650. According to Antonio Palomino's biography of Velázquez, the painting \"was generally applauded by all the painters from different countries, who said that the other pictures in the show were art but this one alone was 'truth'.\"\n\nVelázquez painted the portrait of Juan de Pareja, who was of Moorish descent, in his workshop, as an exercise in preparation for his official portrait of Pope Innocent X. The Pope, a ruddy-faced man who would be depicted in the bright pink and crimson robes of his office, presented a tricky study in both color and composition. Additionally, since he would be executing a portrait from life, Velázquez would be forced to work quickly while still capturing the essence of Innocent X's character. The \"Portrait of Juan de Pareja\" reflects Velázquez's exploration of the difficulties he would encounter in the Pope's portrait. To compensate for a restricted palette of colors, Velázquez adopted a loose, almost impressionistic style of brushwork to bring an intense vitality to his subject.\n\nJuan de Pareja (circa 1610 – 1670) became an artist in his own right, and in 1654 he was freed by Velázquez.\n\nThe painting's ownership between its first exhibition at the Pantheon in Rome in 1650 and the end of the eighteenth century is unknown. There is no record of the painting in Spain. The earliest record of the ownership of the painting was in essay written in 1765 by Francisco Preciado, Director of the Royal Spanish Academy in Rome. He stated that the painting owned by Cardinal Trajano D'Acquaviva (1694-1747) who lived in Rome.\n\nThe painting then reappears in the record as part of the dukes of Baranello's collection in Naples sometime in the 1700s. It was recorded as part of the collection of Sir William Hamilton, the British Ambassador to the Kingdom of Naples from 1764 to 1798. The inventory of his residence in Naples, Palazzo Sessa, lists \"a portrait of a Moresco slave by Velazquez.\" Hamilton sent the portrait and his other works of art to London for safekeeping, on board the ship HMS Fondroyant the flagship of Lord Nelson, when he left Naples. Hamilton returned to England heavily in debt and the portrait was auctioned at Christie's in 1801. The auction catalogue listed the painting as Velazquez's \"Portrait of a Moorish Slave, that was in his service, and became a great Painter\". It sold for 39 guineas and disappeared from the record again.\n\nIt later surfaces in the collection of Jacob Pleydell-Bouverie, 2nd Earl of Radnor at Longford Castle, Salisbury. In a catalogue of the Radnor family's collection, published in 1909, stated that the portrait was part of the collection by 1814 and may have been acquired in 1811. It remained in the ownership of the Radnor family for over 150 years until it was sold at Christie's in London for the record sum of £2,310,000 (or 2,200,000 guineas or $5,544,000) on 27 November 1970. It was the first painting to sell for more than a £1,000,000, setting a new record for the price of paintings sold at auction.\n\nAlec Wildenstein of Wildenstein & Company bid for the painting acting on behalf of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The painting was acquired by the Museum in 1971, principally with through from the Fletcher Fund, with an understanding the two million dollars would be paid back over time with income generated from the Rogers Fund, Fletcher Fund and other funds \"restricted to buying funds\". The painting is considered one of the \"most important acquisitions in the Museum's history\". Theodore Rousseau, when Curator-in-Chief of the Museum, stated that the painting was \"one of the finest works of art to come on the market in our time.\"\n\nThe finest and best-known copy belongs to the Hispanic Society of America, New York. The Hispanic Society's copy is believed to have been painted from the original while it was in the collection of the earl of Radnor at Longford Castle. Some believe Hispanic Society copy was painted by the sitter himself, Juan de Pareja.\n\nThe portrait inspired the famous 1965 novel \"I, Juan de Pareja\" by Elizabeth Borton de Treviño. The novel was awarded the children's literary prize the Newbery Medal in 1966.\n\nVelazquez's painting reinterpreted by surrealist painter Salvador Dali in his 1960 work \"Portrait of Juan de Pareja, the Assistant to Velázquez\" which is in the collection of the Minneapolis Institute of Art\".\" French-Senegalese artist Iba N'Diaye restaged the Velazquez portrait in his 1985-86 painting \"Juan de Pareja agresse par les chiens (Juan de Pareja menaced by dogs)\" .\n\nA central theme of the 2012 play \"Disgraced\" by Ayad Akhtar is a painting of the protagonist, a South Asian Muslim man, as painted by his white wife in the style of the \"Portrait of Juan de Pareja\".\n\nRepresentation of slavery in European art\n\n"}
{"id": "51763336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51763336", "title": "Searchlight on Harbor Entrance, Santiago de Cuba", "text": "Searchlight on Harbor Entrance, Santiago de Cuba\n\nSearchlight on Harbor Entrance, Santiago de Cuba is an early 20th century painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It is currently (2018) in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nExecuted in oil on canvas from sketches made by Homer in 1895, the painting depicts two cannon atop Castillo de San Pedro de la Roca, also known as Morro castle, a Spanish built fortress on the island of Cuba. The fort played a role in the decisive Battle of Santiago de Cuba in 1898, in which the United States Navy destroyed a Spanish fleet sheltering there. The image was painted after the event received much publicity in 1901 as a court of enquiry strove to apportion credit to the American commanders involved.\n\nThe work is on view at the Metropolitan in Gallery 767.\n\n"}
{"id": "6135781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6135781", "title": "Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors", "text": "Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors\n\nShadows of Forgotten Ancestors (, \"Tini zabutykh predkiv\"), also called \"Shadows of Our Forgotten Ancestors\", \"Shadows of Our Ancestors\", or \"Wild Horses of Fire\" – is a 1965 film by the Soviet filmmaker Sergei Parajanov based on the classic book by Ukrainian writer Mykhailo Kotsiubynsky. The film was Parajanov's first major work and earned him international acclaim for its rich use of costume and color. The film also features a detailed portrayal of Ukrainian Hutsul culture, showing not only the harsh Carpathian environment and brutal family rivalries, but also the various aspects of Hutsul traditions, music, costumes, and dialect.\n\nIn a small Hutsul village in the Carpathian mountains of Ukraine, a young man, Ivan, falls in love with the daughter of the man who killed his father. Though their families share a bitter enmity, Ivan and Marichka have known each other since childhood. In preparation for their marriage, Ivan leaves the village to work and earn money for a household. While he is gone, Marichka accidentally slips into a river and drowns while trying to rescue a lost lamb.\n\nIvan returns and falls into despair after seeing Marichka's body. He continues to work, enduring a period of joyless toil, until he meets another woman, Palahna, while shoeing a horse. Ivan and Palahna get married in a traditional Hutsul wedding in which they are blindfolded and yoked together. The marriage quickly turns sour, however, as Ivan remains obsessed with the memory of Marichka. Estranged from her emotionally distant husband, Palahna becomes involved with a local sorcerer, while Ivan begins to experience hallucinations.\n\nAt a tavern, Ivan witnesses the sorcerer embrace Palahna and strike one of his friends. Roused into an uncharacteristic fury, Ivan snatches up his axe, only to be struck down by the sorcerer. Ivan stumbles into the nearby woods and perceives Marichka's spirit to be with him, reflected in the water and gliding amongst the trees. As reality merges into dream, the colorless shade of Marichka reaches out across a great space and touches Ivan's outstretched hand. Ivan screams and dies. The community gives him a traditional Hutsul burial while children watch through cross braced windows.\n\nThe film is highly symbolic, making frequent use of religious and folkloric images that include crosses, lambs, graves, and spirits. The film also uses color to represent mood. During Ivan's period of mourning, black and white film stock is used. In other scenes, colors are often muted, but provide a contrast to vivid use of red and yellow. On its release, the film's presentation contrasted with the common socialist realism style that had government approval. After refusing to change the film, Parajanov was soon blacklisted from Soviet cinema.\n\n\nThe film began an international film festival tour in Spring 1965.\nPolitical protest followed the premiere of \"Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors\" in Kiev on 4 September 1975.\n\nThe film was seen by 8.5 million viewers in the USSR.\n\nParts of the film were shot in the Dovzhenko Film Studios.\n\nGrand Prix at Mar del Plata International Film Festival (1965). According to the Film Encyclopedia by Ephraim Katz, \"Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors\" received the British Academy Award (BAFTA) for \"the best foreign production\" but per the official statement from BAFTA, obtained by Sergei Parajanov's disciple Martiros Vartanov, the film hadn't won or been nominated.\n\nThe band A Hawk and a Hacksaw arranged their sixth studio album \"You Have Already Gone to the Other World\" as a new and original soundtrack to the movie. They played their soundtrack alongside the movie in cinemas and theatres in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7815148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7815148", "title": "Simpich Character Dolls", "text": "Simpich Character Dolls\n\nSimpich Character Dolls, Ltd. was a dollmaker and home-workshop employer in Colorado Springs, Colorado. In production since 1952, the founders, Bob and Jan Simpich, announced their retirement for February 2007, and the closing of their studio in the Old Colorado City Historic Commercial District.\n\nThe dolls themselves range from historical figures to mythological ones, and the most consistently popular are the Christmas-themed dolls.\n\nThe dolls have spawned other concepts since their creation, notably the marionette theater of their son, puppeteer David Simpich.\n\n"}
{"id": "4376748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4376748", "title": "Susan Stamberg", "text": "Susan Stamberg\n\nSusan Stamberg (born September 7, 1938) is an American radio journalist who is a Special Correspondent for National Public Radio and guest host of \"Weekend Edition Saturday\".\n\nSusan Stamberg was born Susan Levitt in Newark, New Jersey. She graduated from Barnard College in 1959.\n\nFor 14 years beginning in 1972 Stamberg served as co-host of \"All Things Considered\", the evening news magazine. She was the first woman to hold a full-time position as anchor of a national nightly news broadcast in the United States. She was awarded the Edward R. Murrow Award (CPB). She was the host of Weekend Edition Sunday from 1987 to 1989. In 1994, Stamberg was inducted into the Broadcasting Hall of Fame. In 1996 she was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame.\n\nEach Thanksgiving since 1971, Stamberg provides NPR listeners with her mother-in-law's recipe for a cranberry relish sauce that is unusual in having horseradish as one of its principal ingredients. The recipe is known as \"Mama Stamberg's Cranberry Relish Recipe\", although it was originally published in 1959 by Craig Claiborne in his food column.\n\nOne of her most memorable interviews was with Nobel Prize–winning economist Milton Friedman. Stamberg argued with Friedman over the merits of the free market, claiming her conversations with \"Russian cabbies\" on the streets of New York had showed that the expatriates preferred life in the former Communist country to \"how dreadfully tough their lives are here (the United States).\" Friedman dismissed Stamberg's observation, contending, \"I'm saying if you really want to know what they really believe about the relative merits of the two systems, see what they do, not what they say. And what they do is to stay here. They don't go back.\"\n\nStamberg was also the first host of the long-running PBS arts series, \"Alive from Off Center\", hosting from 1985 to 1986.\n\nThe mother of actor Josh Stamberg, Stamberg was married to Louis C. Stamberg, who died on October 9, 2007. During a career with the Agency for International Development Louis Stamberg worked as a program officer and spent more than two years at the USAID mission in New Delhi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13943495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13943495", "title": "Terry Louise Fisher", "text": "Terry Louise Fisher\n\nTerry Louise Fisher (born February 21, 1946) is an American former TV screenwriter and producer. During her career, she won three Primetime Emmy Awards from seven nominations.\n\nFisher was born in Chicago, Illinois and attended UCLA School of Law in 1968. She later worked for the Los Angeles District Attorney's office and moved from that into Entertainment Law. While a Los Angeles lawyer, Fisher wrote two novels, both published by the Warner Publishing Company. The first, entitled \"A Class Act\", was published in 1976. The second, entitled \"Good Behavior\", was published in 1979. Both are no longer in print. After ten years in the law field, Fisher decided to pursue her true passion of writing full-time and quit practicing law.\n\nShe began her television career as a writer and producer for the CBS police procedural \"Cagney & Lacey\" in 1982. Between 1983 and 1987, she wrote for other series and television films. In 1985, she left \"Cagney & Lacey\", but returned many years later for the series' reunion films \"Cagney and Lacey: The Return\" (1994) and \"Cagney and Lacey: Together Again\" (1995), both of which she co-wrote.\n\nFisher's most notable series was \"L.A. Law\", which she co-created with producer Steven Bochco. She served as a supervising producer and writer for many of the series early episodes. Her writing for the series won her a shared Primetime Emmy Award in 1987, and two additional shared nominations in 1988.\n\nIn 1988, a legal battle with Steven Bochco led to her departure from the series, when a negotiation for her to take over Bochco's role as the series' executive producer failed, and she was banned from the set.\n\nPrior to this, she had also co-created the comedy-drama series \"Hooperman\" with Bochco in 1987. The series starred John Ritter and ran for two seasons on ABC.\n\nFisher wrote the 1992 short-lived summer series \"2000 Malibu Road\", which was produced by Aaron Spelling and directed by Joel Schumacher. She later took part in the production of a highly anticipated primetime soap opera pilot, entitled \"Daughters of Eve\", which was to star Sophia Loren and premiere during the 1995-1996 television season. However, the series was not picked up.\n"}
{"id": "26444499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26444499", "title": "The Burial of the Sardine", "text": "The Burial of the Sardine\n\nThe Burial of the Sardine (Spanish: \"El entierro de la sardina\") is an oil-on-panel painting by Spanish artist Francisco Goya, usually dated to the 1810s. The title is posthumous, referring to the culminating event of a three-day carnival in Madrid ending on Ash Wednesday. Masked and disguised revellers are seen dancing their way to the banks of the Manzanares, where a ceremonial sardine will be buried. Goya does not illustrate the fish in the painting, nor the large doll made of straw, called a \"pelele\", from which it hung; the centrepiece is the darkly grinning \"King of the Carnival\".\n\nThe painting has been dated between 1793 and 1819, but most accounts place it toward the end of this range on account of the painting's style and its place within the shifting themes of Goya's art as he aged. \"The Burial\" appears to fit within a progression beginning with the artist's bright, youthful works—in which he painted commissions of popular entertainments and colourful cartoon tapestries—and his much later, psychologically darker Black Paintings. The painting is certainly a tribute to the common people, depicting an exuberant crowd carousing on the first day of Lent while other Spanish Catholics worship at church. Yet the celebration takes on a sinister aspect due to the many masked and blank faces (see the detail in \"Gallery\") surrounding the gaily dancing women in white; the grey, distorted trees and encroaching dark colours; and the eye-catching black banner that parades an unsettling mascot. Such festivals as the \"Burial of the Sardine\" originated with themes of mortality: masks were worn to ward off the spirits of criminals and those who had died violently. The word \"mortus\" (\"death\") is barely visible on the banner though in a preparatory ink sketch by Goya (in the gallery below) it features prominently over an indistinct shape which may be a representation of the sardine itself. The painting forms a loose thematic set with other paintings of religious ceremony that Goya produced around the same time, among which are \"A Procession of Flagellants\" (\"Procesión de disciplinantes\") and \"Inquisition Scene\" (\"Auto de fe de la Inquisición\").\n\nGoya scholar Fred Licht writes:\n\n"}
{"id": "15113061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15113061", "title": "The Distrest Poet", "text": "The Distrest Poet\n\nThe Distrest Poet is an oil painting produced sometime around 1736 by the British artist William Hogarth. Reproduced as an etching and engraving, it was published in 1741 from a third state plate produced in 1740. The scene was probably inspired by Alexander Pope's satirical poem \"The Dunciad\". It depicts a scene in a small, dingy attic room where a poet sits at his desk in the dormer and, scratching his head, stares at the papers on the desk before him, evidently looking for inspiration to complete the poem he is writing. Near him sits his wife darning clothes, surprised by the entrance of a milkmaid, who impatiently demands payment of debts.\n\nThe engraving of \"The Distrest Poet\" in its third state was issued on 15 December 1741 as a companion piece to \"The Enraged Musician\", a comic scene of a violinist driven to distraction by the noise from the street outside his practice room. The initial plate for \"The Distrest Poet\" was produced soon after Hogarth had completed the oil painting, but the third state plate was not completed until late in 1740 at which time Hogarth advertised his intention to issue a three-image set: \"The Provok'd Musician\", \"The Distrest Poet\", and a third image on the subject of \"Painting\". \"The Provok'd Musician\" (renamed \"The Enraged Musician\") was produced in 1741 but the third image was never completed.\n\nThe scene is set in a small and messy garret, sparsely furnished by a few pieces of crude furniture. The room is poorly kept, with cracking plaster, a broken window and uneven floor, and a bare cupboard. In this way, Hogarth underlines the desperate circumstances of the occupants and the poverty of the family.\n\nStarved of inspiration and suffering writer's block, the poet sits on the end of his bed in his night gown, quill in hand, scratching his head. A copy of Edward Bysshe's \"The Art of English Poetry\", a guide to composition published in 1702, lies open on the table. A copy of Popes's satirical \"Grub Street Journal\" lies on the floor near his feet.\n\nA few feet to his right sits his wife, darning the clothes on her lap and those sprawled on the floor, where a cat sits, while a crying infant, who is upset and hungry, goes unattended in the only bed. Next to the poet's wife, by the open door, an angry milkmaid presents her substantial bill, demanding payment for milk, underlining the poet's refusal to provide for his family by getting himself a proper job. The cupboard stands open and empty, save for a mouse; near the door, a dog steals the last of the family's food from a plate.\n\nOther, less obvious, elements of the painting reveal more about the poet's personality and ideas. The poem he is attempting to write is entitled \"Upon Riches\", which suggests that the poet lives in a fantasy world, while his wife and child go hungry. Ned Ward's first published poem in 1691 was \"The Poet's Ramble After Riches\", which satirised his own struggles as an impoverished aspiring poet, and Hogarth may have had this in mind when he produced the picture. Earlier impressions showed the poem as \"Poverty, A Poem\", which hinted at a connection to Theobald who had written \"The Cave of Poverty, A Poem, Written in Imitation of Shakespeare\" in 1714. The poet's dreams of riches are further suggested by the map that hangs over his head, entitled \"A View of the Gold Mines of Peru\", replacing the image of Pope that appears in the earlier states of the print. The poet's self-interest is hinted by the presence of his pipe and tobacco on the window sill, the mug of beer sitting on the chair in the back of the room, the lace cuffs drying by the fire, his ill-fitting wig, and gentleman's sword lying at his feet; it may be that despite his family's circumstances, he refuses to forgo his own personal pleasures and effects. Alternatively, his fantasy of earning a fortune from his art may require that he keeps his gentlemanly accoutrements around him, as they will be required when his fantasies are realized.\n\nThe scene shown in \"The Distrest Poet\" was probably inspired by Alexander Pope's satirical poem \"The Dunciad\", most likely by the prefatory matter of the second version, the \"Dunciad Variorum\" which had been published in 1735, and in which Pope confirmed his authorship of the original. The painting and early states of the print included a quotation from Pope's work:\n\nThe bill stuck to the wall above the poet's head originally featured a reference to Pope in which he was punningly mocked as \"His Holiness Pope Alexander\", depicted as an ape wearing a papal tiara with an ass as his Prime Minister. The initial states of the print kept the quotation but replaced the genuine bill with a representation (which appears to have been entirely invented by Hogarth rather than copied from a real bill) of Pope clashing with Edmund Curll over the unauthorised publication of the poet's correspondence. Although Hogarth and Pope had never met, this literary inspiration led to speculation as to the identity of Hogarth's poet as one of the targets of Pope's satire. Ned Ward, the author of \"The London Spy\" was a strong contender, as was Lewis Theobald, to whom the lines quoted from Pope in Hogarth's original print referred. \n\nHow far Hogarth sympathised with Pope is questionable. The original bill mocked him, but it featured in an image that, at the least, poked fun at the poor poet who was the subject. Hogarth may have been suggesting either that poet was showing contempt for Pope or that he placed Pope's image above his head as a model to which to aspire. In the second image, which shows Pope and Curll locked in battle, it is not clear who has the upper hand, and by the time the print was issued the direct reference to Pope had been removed completely. Ronald Paulson, the preeminent modern authority on Hogarth, suggests that Hogarth would have viewed Pope, through his Roman Catholicism, as having been implicitly tied to the continental influences that Hogarth despised, and would have seen Pope's refusal to accept the patronage of the great men of the time, while still cultivating them as friends and still reaping the rewards they had to offer, as hypocritical. Pope was part of the circle that included William Kent and Richard Boyle, 3rd Earl of Burlington who had displaced Hogarth's father-in-law James Thornhill from commissions, and Hogarth also had ties to Lewis Theobald, a possible target of the satire, through illustrations he had produced for Theobald's \"Perseus and Andromeda\", and through his subscription to Theobald's edition of the works of Shakespeare. Paulson suggests that the real \"villain\" of \"The Distrest Poet\" may be Pope, unseen but representing the successful \"Great Poet\" whom the deluded aspiring artist hopes to emulate, rather than the distressed poet himself. Hogarth had featured Pope picking John Gay's pocket in the foreground of \"Emblematical Print on the South Sea Scheme\", an early print he had produced on the theme of the South Sea Bubble (both Pope and Gay had invested money in the scheme). At the same time, within the satire of the painting, the poet who is distressed is going to be one of Pope's dunces. \n\nThe lines by Pope, though referring to Theobald, the hero of \"The Dunciad\", are a characterisation of a Grub Street hack, a stereotype popular in the 1730s denoting a man of limited writing ability who lived in poverty but nevertheless determinedly pursued a career in literature;, Therefore, the particular scribbler depicted in the painting would be one of this fraternity of \"witlings\" who banded together to protest Pope's poem. In this context it would make sense, therefore, for the \"poet\" to have the scabrous anti-Pope print, or an emblem of Pope's fight with the hack writers' patron, above him. Just as Moll Hackabout has a picture of Macheath on her wall in \"A Harlot's Progress,\" this aspiring and witless poet would have a picture of his hero, Edmund Curll, and an anti-Pope print. The emblem, in other words, identifies the poet's \"side\" in the battle between dunces and men of wit.\n\nHogarth was well acquainted with the struggles of the Grub Street hack though, through the travails of his own father, Richard, who had been unable to make a living as writer and had eventually ended up at the Fleet Prison as a bankrupt. Hogarth may have been more than sympathetic to the dunce struggling with his rhymes. Jenny Uglow in her biography of Hogarth, posits that the gradual alteration of the prints above the poet's head could suggest a slow softening of attitudes towards Pope and his attack on the class of writer to which Hogarth's father had belonged, and perhaps evidence of Hogarth making his own compromises in his endeavours to become successful.\n\n"}
{"id": "26153491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26153491", "title": "The Geographer", "text": "The Geographer\n\nThe Geographer is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in 1668–1669, and is now in the collection of the Städelsches Kunstinstitut museum in Frankfurt, Germany. It is closely related to Vermeer's \"The Astronomer\", for instance using the same model in the same dress, and has sometimes been considered a pendant painting to it. A 2017 study indicated that the canvas for the two works came from the same bolt of material.\n\nThis is one of only three paintings Vermeer signed and dated (the other two are \"The Astronomer\" and \"The Procuress\").\n\nThe geographer, dressed in a Japanese-style robe then popular among scholars, is shown to be \"someone excited by intellectual inquiry\", with his active stance, the presence of maps, charts, a globe and books, as well as the dividers he holds in his right hand, according to Arthur Wheelock Jr. \"The energy in this painting [...] is conveyed most notably through the figure's pose, the massing of objects on the left side of the composition, and the sequence of diagonal shadows on the wall to the right.\" \n\nVermeer made several changes in the painting that enhance the feeling of energy in the picture: the man's head was originally in a different position to the left of where the viewer now sees it, indicating the man perhaps was looking down, rather than peering out the window; the dividers he holds in his hand were originally vertical, not horizontal; a sheet of paper was originally on the small stool at the lower right, and removing it probably made that area darker.\n\nDetails of the man's face are slightly blurred, suggesting movement (also a feature of Vermeer's \"Mistress and Maid\"), according to Serena Carr. His eyes are narrowed, perhaps squinting in the sunlight or an indication of intense thinking. Carr asserts that the painting depicts a \"flash of inspiration\" or even \"revelation\". The drawn curtain on the left and the position of the oriental carpet on the table—pushed back—are both symbols of revelation. \"He grips a book as if he's about to snatch it up to corroborate his ideas.\"\n\nThe globe was published in Amsterdam in 1618 by Jodocus Hondius. Terrestrial and celestial globes were commonly sold together, and the celestial globe in \"The Astronomer\" \"was also a Hondius (Hendrick rather than Judocus)\", another indication that the two paintings were created as pendant pieces, according to Cant. The globe is turned toward the Indian Ocean, where the Dutch East India Company was then active. Vermeer used an impasto technique to apply pointillé dots, not to indicate light reflected more strongly on certain points but to emphasize the dull ochre cartouche \"frame\" printed on the globe. Since the globe can be identified, we know the decorative cartouche includes a plea for information for future editions—reflecting the theme of revelation in the painting.\n\nThe cartographic objects surrounding the man are some of the actual items a geographer would have: the globe, the dividers the man holds, a cross-staff (hung on the center post of the window), used to measure the angle of celestial objects like the sun or stars, and the chart the man is using, which (according to one scholar, James A. Welu) appears to be a nautical chart on vellum. The sea chart on the wall of \"all the Sea coasts of Europe\" has been identified as one published by Willem Jansz Blaeu. This accuracy indicates Vermeer had a source familiar with the profession. \"The Astronomer\", which seems to form a pendant with this painting, shows a similar, sophisticated knowledge of cartographic instruments and books, and the same young man modeled for both. That man himself may have been the source of Vermeer's correct display of surveying and geographical instruments, and possibly of his knowledge of perspective. \n\nWheelock and others assert the model/source was probably Anthonie van Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723), a contemporary of Vermeer who was also born in Delft. The families of both men were in the textile business, and both families had a strong interest in science and optics. A \"microscopist\", van Leeuwenhoek was described after his death as being so skilled in \"navigation, astronomy, mathematics, philosophy, and natural science ... that one can certainly place him with the most distinguished masteres of the art.\" Another image of van Leeuwenhoek (by the Delft artist Jan Verkolje) about 20 years later shows a broad face and straight nose, similar to Vermeer's model. At the time Vermeer painted the two works, the scientist would have been about 36 years old. He would have been actively studying for his examination for surveyor, which he passed on February 4, 1669. There is no documentary evidence for any kind of relationship between the two men during Vermeer's lifetime, although in 1676, van Leeuwenhoek was appointed a trustee for Vermeer's estate.\n\nThe pose of the figure in Vermeer's painting \"takes up precisely the position of Faust in Rembrandt's famous etching\" (although facing the opposite direction), according to Lawrence Gowing. Similar arrangements can be found in drawings by Nicolaes Maes.\n\nFor much of the painting's early history (until 1797), it was owned together with \"The Astronomer\", which it strongly resembles, and the two have long been considered pendants, although their measurements are not identical. The paintings were not among the works in the Dissius sale of 1696, a collection apparently originally owned by the artist's supposed patron, Pieter van Ruijven, and the earliest record of the painting is from 1713. Up until the late 18th century, they were referred to as \"Astrologers\". The pair were sold by an anonymous owner together in Rotterdam on April 27, 1713 (No. 10 or 11), for 300 florins (a \"considerable sum\", according to Wheelock). Hendrik Sorgh, an art broker, may have bought the paintings at that point. They were among his effects when he died in 1720, and both were sold on March 28 of that year in Amsterdam (No. 3 or 4 in the sale; for 160 florins; described as \"An Astrologer\" and \"a repeat\"). Govert Looten, a neighbor of Sorgh at the Keizersgracht in Amsterdam bought the paintings, which were sold from his estate on March 31, 1729 (this painting was No. 6 and went for 104 florins, both were described in the catalog as \"sublimely and artfully painted\"). Jacob Crammer Simmonsz of Amsterdam (1725-1778) owned the pair before 1778, hanging them in his home on the Prinsengracht (Simonsz also owned \"The Lacemaker\" and another Vermeer, now unknown, depicting a lady pouring wine). He sold \"The Astronomer\" and \"The Geographer\" together on November 25 of that year to a Huguenot banker, Jean Etiènne Fizeaux of Amsterdam, who owned \"The Geographer\" until his death in 1780. His widow owned the work until perhaps 1785. As of 1794 it was owned by Jan Danser Nijman of Amsterdam, who sold it on August 16, 1797 to Christiaan Josi, a publisher of prints, for 133 guilders. It later was bought by Arnoud de Lange of Amsterdam. This transaction separated the two paintings. De Lange sold it on December 12, 1803 for 360 florins. \n\nSometime before 1821, the painting was owned by Johann Goll van Franckenstein Jr. of Velzen and Amsterdam. Pieter Hendrick Goll van Franckenstein of Amsterdam owned it before 1832, and he sold it on July 1, 1833 for 195 florins to a Nieuwenhuys. It was owned by Alexandre Dumont of Cambrai before 1860, who sold it through Thoré-Bũrger to Isaac Pereire of Paris, who owned it by 1866. It was sold on March 6, 1872. Max Kann of Paris owned the painting, perhaps that year, and it passed into the hands of Prince Demidoff of San Donato, near Florence, sometime before 1877, and stayed in his hands until he sold it on March 15, 1880. A.J. Bosch sold the painting in Vienna on April 28, 1885 (for Õs 8,000) to a Kohlbacher, who sold it to the Stãdelsches Kunstinstitut in Frankfurt.\n\nThe work was exhibited in the \"Exposition rétrospective, Tableaux anciens empruntés aux galeries particulières\" held at the Palais des Champs-Elysées, Paris, 1866 ; at the exhibition of \"Ouvrages de peinture exposés au profit de la colonisation de l'Algérie par les Alsaciens-Lorrains\", Palais de la Présidence du Corps législatif, Paris, 1874 ; and in the \"Vermeer, oorsprong en involved. Fabritius, de Hooch, de Witte\" exhibition at the Museum Boymans-van Beuningen in Rotterdam, 1935.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28755623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28755623", "title": "The Snow-child", "text": "The Snow-child\n\nThe Snow-child is a widespread European folktale, found in many medieval tellings.\n\nIt is Aarne–Thompson type 1362.\n\nA merchant returns home after an absence of two years to find his wife with a newborn son. She explains one snowy day she swallowed a snowflake while thinking about her husband which caused her to conceive. Pretending to believe, he raises the boy with her until he takes the boy on a trip and sells him into slavery. On his return, he explains to his wife that the boy melted in the heat.\n\nThe tale appears in Medieval fabliaux, and was used in school exercises of rhetoric. It first appears in the 11th-century Cambridge Songs. A Medieval play about the Virgin Mary has characters disbelieving her story of her pregnancy citing the tale. \n\nIt contrasts to Aarne-Thompson type 703*, Snow Maiden, where a child really has a magical snow-related origin.\n"}
{"id": "37558813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37558813", "title": "Urbane Künste Ruhr", "text": "Urbane Künste Ruhr\n\nUrbane Künste Ruhr (Urban Arts Ruhr) is a cultural institution established in the aftermath of Ruhr.2010, the European Capital of Culture. It realizes artistic productions in urban spaces of the Ruhr. Led by architect and curator Katja Aßmann, Urbane Künste Ruhr will initiate and implement projects in urban spaces, temporary architectural structures, urban interventions, and artistic research projects in the period from 2012 to 2014. The mandate of Urbane Künste Ruhr is to develop cooperations with artists and scholars from various disciplines in order to create new cultural, political, and social strategies for metropolitan areas.\n\nUrbane Künste Ruhr contributes periodically to the international music and arts festival Ruhrtriennale. Alongside these projects, Urbane Künste Ruhr generates programs within the three overall categories \"Mobile Laboratories\", \"Regional Interventions\", and \"Strategies for the Region\". The labs are considered to be a “research department” of the Ruhr metropolitan area. Curated by Urbane Künste Ruhr, the labs research the urban space of the Ruhr with artistic means on an equal footing with scientific means.\n\nOther projects connected with the second and third programmatic field aim at recent infrastructural ventures of the region, such as the renaturation project for the river Emscher and the highway Ruhrschnellweg. The latter was already the scene for artistic productions and interventions during Ruhr.2010.\n\nBeyond programmatic and curatorial activities Urbane Künste Ruhr is assigned to administer the existing cultural networks in the metropolitan area. The vast creative potentials of the artists working in the region as well as the multitude of significant modern art museums (e.g. Museum Folkwang, Museum Küppersmühle, Lehmbruck Museum etc.) joined forces in different networks (e.g. RuhrKunstMuseen, KunstVereineRuhr, \"Starke Orte\"). Urbane Künste Ruhr promotes these agglomerations by supporting them with infrastructure, marketing, and PR. The institution also encourages the development of new affiliations in the cultural sector.\n\nA lot of the projects of Urbane Künste Ruhr are co-productions with partner institutions, such as Regionalverband Ruhr, Emschergenossenschaft, Schauspielhaus Bochum, ETH Zurich, PACT Zollverein, Dortmund University of Applied Sciences and Arts, Ringlokschuppen Mülheim, and many more.\n\nUrbane Künste Ruhr works together with artists like Daniel Buren, Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, rAndom International, Haubitz + Zoche, and many other.\n\n"}
{"id": "7823378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7823378", "title": "Vasateatern", "text": "Vasateatern\n\nVasateatern or \"Vasan\" (in English: \"The Vasa Theatre\") is a private theatre in Stockholm, Sweden. It is located at Vasagatan 19–21 in central Stockholm.\n\nIt was built in 1886 and has for many years been Stockholm's (and Sweden's) main private theatre for comedies and farces. In this genre it has a proud history: it was for many years (1895–1928) run by the legendary Swedish theatre manager Albert Ranft who in the early 20th century staged a large number of French and British comedy plays. He had personal contact with many of the most popular European comedy playwrights at the time, including George Bernard Shaw, and successfully had a great number of contemporary comedy plays translated and staged in Sweden at \"Vasan\". Plays such as Oscar Wilde's \"The Importance of Being Earnest (Mr Ernst)\", Shaw's \"You Never Can Tell (Man kan aldrig veta)\" and \"Major Barbara\", and \"Jack Straw\" by W. Somerset Maugham. Popular French playwrights at the theatre included Georges Feydeau, Georges Berr and Nancy & Jean Rieux. Strindberg was also produced at the Vasateatern.\n\nOver the years it has produced most of the classic farces and comedies. Historic long-runners from the 1950s to the 1980s include \"Charley's Aunt\", the stage version of \"Cactus Flower\" and \"The Spanish Fly (Die spanische Fliege)\", the popular 1914 German farce by Franz Arnold and Ernst Bach.\n\nLegendary Swedish thespian Gösta Ekman (senior) is said to haunt the theatre at nights.\n\nThe theatre closed in 2009 in connection with an extensive renovation in the neighbourhood that was transformed into Scandic Grand Central Hotel. Large parts of the interior of the theatre was taken down while the auditorium was used as a dump during the construction. Parts of the theatre's former premises have been occupied by the hotel business. For example, the theatre cafe integrated with the hotel and converted into the bistro. After the property is sold by the developer Diligentia to Norwegian KLP Eiendom the plans for the theatre are unclear and the theatre operations remained dormant. Because of monument protection the location must be preserved. The beautiful auditorium is preserved, but as of 2012 there were no theatre shows in production.\n\nKrister Henriksson, the Swedish actor used to be the co-owner and Theatre Director.\n\n"}
{"id": "32425920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32425920", "title": "VroniPlag Wiki", "text": "VroniPlag Wiki\n\nThe VroniPlag Wiki is a wiki started 28 March 2011 at Wikia that examines and documents the extent of plagiarism in German doctoral theses.\n\nFollowing the revocation of Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg's doctoral degree, the VroniPlag Wiki adopted the idea of the GuttenPlag Wiki. VroniPlag is named after the first thesis documented in it, the thesis submitted by Veronica Saß, daughter of German politician Edmund Stoiber. \"Vroni\" is a nickname in German for \"Veronica\".\n\nPublication of a thesis consists of an overview that contains a \"bar code\" visualizing the amount of plagiarism, the exact bibliographic information of the theses (and if online, a link) and then a page overview that links to the fragments of plagiarism found on the page. Each fragment is classified as to the kind of plagiarism and must be verified by a second person before it is acceptable. Interesting parts are linked to separately and there is a final report published when the group feels the work is done.\n\nVroniPlag Wiki only publishes text parallel documentation openly with names of the authors on theses that have been found to contain serious plagiarism. Before publication, the office of academic integrity at the university in question is formally notified, as any revocation of title must be done by the university.\n\nIn addition to looking at dissertations, the text parallels in one habilitation and one book how to write scientifically.\n\nAs of February 2016, 152 dissertations, 8 habilitations, 1 master's thesis, and 1 book on scientific writing have been examined in detail on the site. The first seven were:\nMost of the plagiarism allegations made by VroniPlag led to investigations by the responsible universities, and some have resulted in the revocation of the degree. Most of these revocations have held up in court. However, some universities disagreed with VroniPlag finding, even in cases of blatant plagiarism (between 40 and 70% of pages affected with plagiarism). The correct methods for dealing with plagiarism—and its prevention—remains an ongoing discussion in Germany.\nProminent cases of plagiarism continue to surface in Germany. At the University of Münster, a text book on scientific writing for lawyers was found to contain massive plagiarism. Ironically, even the chapter on plagiarism was plagiarized. While the book told students not to use Wikipedia, the book itself contained 18 text fragments from the German Wikipedia. The dissertations of two of the book's authors, who received their doctorates at Münster University, were found to show extreme text parallels.\n\nVroniPlag was the first crowd sourcing phenomenon of its kind in Germany that has been referred to as an authoritative source in all major media channels in Germany. The plagiarism investigation project has triggered an extensive nationwide discussion about plagiarism and what represents appropriate consequences for plagiarists and universities. The project was awarded the Zedler Prize for Free Knowledge in the category External Knowledge Project of the year 2011 by the German Wikimedia on July 1, 2012.\n\nSince September 2015, Minister of Defence Ursula von der Leyen's thesis is under formal investigation by her university after the wiki alleged plagiarism on more than 40% of its pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "28116091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28116091", "title": "World Architecture Survey", "text": "World Architecture Survey\n\nThe World Architecture Survey was conducted in 2010 by \"Vanity Fair\", to determine the most important works of contemporary architecture. 52 leading architects, teachers, and critics, including several Pritzker Prize winners and deans of major architecture schools were asked for their opinion.\n\nThe survey asked two questions:\n\nWhile the range of responses was very broad, more than half of the experts surveyed named the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao by Frank Gehry as one of the most important works since 1980. The Beijing National Stadium (Bird’s Nest stadium) in Beijing by Herzog and de Meuron was the building most often cited, by seven respondents, as the most significant structure of the 21st century so far. Counted by architect, works by Frank Gehry received the most votes, followed by those of Rem Koolhaas. The result of the survey led \"Vanity Fair\" to label Gehry as \"the most important architect of our age\".\n\nThe respondents named a total of 132 different structures when asked to indicate the five most important buildings, monuments, and bridges completed since 1980. The top 21 were:\n\nThe buildings most often named as the greatest work of architecture thus far in the 21st century were:\n\nWriting for the \"Chicago Tribune\", Blair Kamin criticized the \"self-aggrandizing\" survey for not including any green buildings. In response, Lance Hosey of \"Architect\" magazine conducted an alternate survey of leading green building experts and found that no buildings appeared on both lists, suggesting that standards of \"good design\" and \"green design\" are misaligned. Commentators also noted that several of the architects surveyed (but not Gehry) \"perhaps took the magazine’s title a little too seriously\" and voted for their own buildings.\n\nThe following people replied to the survey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5275733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5275733", "title": "You can click, but you can't hide", "text": "You can click, but you can't hide\n\nYou can click, but you can't hide is a propaganda campaign run jointly by several international associations, most notably the MPA, the MPAA, and the GVU, as part of the larger \"Respect Copyrights\" campaign against peer-to-peer file sharing of motion pictures. The associations have long alleged that Internet file sharing, or maintaining a file sharing tracker, network or search engine, constitutes copyright infringement because the practice hurts their profits.\n\nThe phrase is an adaptation of the phrase \"You can run but you can't hide,\" a statement attributed to American boxer Joe Louis. The \"Illegal Downloading: Inappropriate for all ages\" campaign logo is based on the MPAA Rating System logos.\n\nIn addition to a print and billboard campaign, BitTorrent tracker websites closed between October 2004 and May 2005 due to legal action by the associations have replaced their front page with the campaign's logo and an accompanying message:\n\n\"There are websites that provide legal downloads. This is not one of them. This website has been permanently shut down by court order because it facilitates the illegal downloading of copyrighted motion pictures. The illegal downloading of motion pictures robs thousands of honest, hard-working people of their livelihood, and stifles creativity. Illegally downloading movies from sites such as these without proper authorization violates the law, is theft, and is not anonymous. Stealing movies leaves a trail. The only way not to get caught is to stop.\"\n\nThe associations have also obtained records from some closed tracker sites, which could be used to trace individual users. The administrator of one such site, LokiTorrent, closed the site and turned over its logs, amidst controversy, as part of a settlement ending a 2005 copyright infringement lawsuit filed by MPAA studios against him. The anti-\"piracy\" campaign's signature replaced the content of the website upon its shutting down.\n\nThe arresting nature of the graphics, and the use of scare tactics in this campaign is a marked difference from previous large-scale copyright-promotion campaigns such as Home Taping is Killing Music and Who Makes Movies?, which appealed to the consumer's interest in the art form and the consumer's compassion for movie industry workers. John G. Malcolm, former Senior Vice President and Director of Worldwide Anti-Piracy for the MPAA, has been quoted saying that the goal of the campaign is to \"make an example of\" internet movie thieves and other pirates. Former MPAA chief Dan Glickman insisted in a statement to film P2P traders that the MPAA \"will find you, and you will be held responsible\".\n\nIn 2010 they conducted survey and found out as the years progressed more and more people continued to find more ways and websites to download illegal music. Troels Møller from pro-\"piracy\" group stated, \"The advertising campaigns used to prevent illegal downloads have been a waste of money and have in general been a cop-out from the record industry\". He believes that these campaigns are useless and have no real major effect on the daily consumer of music. This scare tactic is not a significant factor and has little to no success for music listeners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36861045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36861045", "title": "Zhuangbiao", "text": "Zhuangbiao\n\nZhunagbiao (裝裱) is a Chinese specialized framing method for paintings and calligraphy on rice papers. Materials include: coloured papers, fabrics, threads, wooden sticks, glue and so on.\n\n"}
